TRANSMISSION OF SYPHILIS TO OFFSPRING. 1123 child suffering from congenital syphilis was until comparatively recently denied by most authorities. It has now, however, been placed beyond a doubt that the disease can be thus communicated. One of the most unquestionable of these accidents is that which occurred in the sub-Apennine valley of Rivalta in Pied- mont, in 1861. Dr. Pacchiotti, of Turin, who was employed by the Italian Government to report on the attack, published an account of it. The facts are shortly as follows :—In May, 1861, an apparently healthy child, named Chiabrera, was vaccinated at Rivaita with lymph sent from Acqui for the purpose. Ten days after this vaccination—on June 7th—forty-six healthy children were vaccinated at one sitting from this child. Again, on the 12th June, seventeen other healthy children were vaccinated from one of the forty- six. Thirty-nine of the first series of forty-six, and seven of the second series of seventeen, received syphilis with the vaccine disease, making a total of forty-six out of sixty-three children simultaneously inoculated with syphilis in a mountain village. Some months elapsed before the vaccination was suspected to have been the source of the children's bad health. By the 7th October, when attention was drawn to this spreading disease, six of the forty- six syphilized children had died without receiving any treatment, fourteen were recovering, and three were in a precarious condition. Tv.'enty-three were dispersed through the country, and their condition was unknown until further researches traced them out. In addition to the children, twenty women suckling them were inoculated with syphilis from the children ; through the mothers, the disease had reached some of the husbands and even the elder children of the different famihes. The history of this outbreak of vaccino- syphilis shows that the disease appears in only a certain proportion of those inoculated with the lymph. It has been attempted to explain this by sup- posing that syphilis is spread only when blood is mixed with the lymph, and that pure lymph will not convey syphilis even when taken from a syphilitic child. The evidence, however, at the present time is not sufficient to prove this definitively, but it is enough to impress upon every vaccinator the necessity of not only carefully examining every vaccinifer for syphilis, but also of obtaining the lymph free from contamination with blood, even when taken from an apparently healthy child. Syphilis has been transmitted in one well-authenticated case (see p. 277) by skin-grafting. In this operation the grafts are cut of sufficient thickness just to draw blood, so that there is no difficulty in understanding how the poison may be conveyed from one person to another, 2. Transmission of Syphilis from Parent to Offspring.—The mode of communication of syphilis to the ovum, or to the foetus in utero, is an investi- gation that has much occupied the attention of Surgeons, and is of consider- able practical interest. It has been considered probable that the poison may be communicated to the embryo in at least four ways : viz., 1, the father may have a constitutional taint of which he has been imperfectly cured, and, without communicating any syphilitic disease to his wife, may be the parent of an offspring that exhibits indications of being infected ; or, 2, the mother, having a similar constitutional disease, may in like manner taint her own offspring ; or, 3, the diseased child may be born of parents, both of whom are constitutionally infected ; or, 4, the mother may become pregnant with a healthy embryo, but, afterwards contracting syphiHs, may transmit it to her offspring. 4 C 2