ADMINISTRATION OF MERCURY IN SYPHILIS. ii43 administration till the gums are distinctly affected before the effect is pro- duced. In the tertiary stage its effect is far less certain, and the state ot the patient's health is frequently such as to contra-indicate its administration. As a rule, it should not be given unless other means have failed, when it will sometimes be found to produce excellent effects if carefully administered 5. The time during which mercury should he continued.—Tha administration of mercury should commence as soon as the nature of the disease is recog- nized, and be steadily continued while the secondary symptoms are making their appearance. Even if no secondary signs appear, it is better to continue the administration uninterruptedly for from four to six months, and then witti occasional intervals to the end of a year. If no signs of the disease are present, its use may then be abandoned, and not renewed unless some Iresh symptoms appear. The patient must be carefully watched, and if any signs of depression from the use of the drug become apparent, its use must at once be suspended. The occurrence of marked febrile disturbance immediately before the outbreak of the secondary symptoms is usually an indication for carefully pushing the drug. 6. Mode of administration.—Mercnvj may be administered m tour ways : (a.) by the mouth ; (l.) by inunction ; (c.) by subcutaneous injection ; or [d.) by fumigation. . -, • («.) Bi/ the mouth.—This, being the most convenient method, is usually adopted. As mercurial preparations are mostly purgative, it is necessary, in most cases, to add a small quantity of opium, to prevent this action. In the treatment of any given case, it is necessary to ascertain what preparation has least tendency to purge the patient, what amount of opium is required just to neutralize the purgative tendency without causing constipation or headache, and what dose is required to produce the desired effect on the disease. All these points can be ascertained only by observation of the par- ticular case. The form that will be found most generally useful is the following: V^, grey powder, gr. j. ; Dover's powder, gr. j.; extract of gentian, q. s. to make a pUl. The patient may begin with three pills a day for three days ; if they give rise to no effects, either beneficial or the reverse, the dose may be in- creased to four, and after a few days to five, if necessary. Six are very rarely required. If the pill purges, the Dover's powder may be increased; if it consti - pates it must be diminished. A few variations usually succeed in hitting the exact proportion and dose suited to the case, and the prescription may then remain unchanged for weeks or even months. The ordinary blue pill^ is of the same strength as the grey powder, and may be given instead of it, if preferred ; but it is slightly more apt to purge. It may be first tried alone, or with an equal quantity of extract of gentian, in grain doses, three, four, or five times a day. If necessary, powdered opium or Dover's powder is added. By patients very insusceptible to the drug, as much as ten grains a day of blue pill can sometimes be taken. If these preparations do not suit the patient, the green iodide of mercury, in doses commencing at half a grain, and gradually increased to a grain, three times a day, may be employed. It should be made into a pill with extract of gentian, and, if necessary, a sixth to a third of a grain of extract of opium may be added. The only objection to this preparation is that it may decompose, the red iodide and free mercury being formed ; it then acts much more powerfully, and may salivate. The per- chloride of mercury, or the bicyanide may sometimes be tried if the foregoing