TRAUMATIC MENINGITIS. 771 In other cases, however, as we have seen, careful observation of the con- vulsions or parailyses which supervene may indicate the position of the extra- vasation. If, under these circumstances, the extension of the motor phenomena shows that the hgemorrha_!«'e is continuing-, or if signs of general compression, especially deepening coma, develope, the Surgeon should lose no time in applying the trephine over the spot indicated by the symptoms. Even with the strictest antiseptic precautions the operation, which neces- sarily involves opening the dura mnter, is a serious one. It should not be undertaken as an immediate means of treatment, if the general symptoms of compression be absent, and if the local symptoms be not progressive. But at a later period trephining may be required with the object of relieving persistent paralysis or signs of irritation. The hope of a successful result is necessarily greater when the elfusion of blood is in the subdural space than when it proceeds from lacerated brain substance. Of the several cases of this kind in which the application of the trephine has been guided entirely by the symptoms, one of the most striking is recorded by Macewen. A boy, after a fall on the head, had for six days been subject to convulsions beginning in the left side of the face and spreading to the . left arm and leg. There was also paresis of the same parts. The trephine was applied over the lower end of the right sulcus of Eolando, and two ounces of blood-clot were evacuated from the subdural space. The recovery of the patient was complete. If it be decided that no operation is advisable, the head must be shaved and ice applied, and the patient kept at perfect rest. If the respiration and pulse become much embarrassed, free venesection may give some relief. TBAUMATIC MENINGITIS AND ENCEPHALITIS. Acute diffuse meningitis — Acute Lepto-meningitis — Meningo- encephalitis.—Inflammation of the brain and its membranes from injury is a complication of great frequency and of corresponding importance. Causes.—Every wound or laceration of the brain must necessarily be followed by a localized traumatic inflammation in the injured area, but there is no greater tendency for this to spread or to persist in the brain than in any other part of the body. Its natural course is to subside and to give place to the normal processes of repair in from twenty-four to forty-eight hours If the inflammation extends or persists it is due to some source of irritation other than the wound, introduced subsequently to its infliction It is extremely rare to find meningitis following simple injuries of the head how ever severe, in which there is no wound of the skin or fracture of the'skull When such a condition is met with it is most commonly due to general infection from some unhealthy wound in another part of the body inflicted at the same time as the injury to the head. In unhealthy children diffuse meningitis mav fo ow a simple injury in rare cases, just as diffuse infective periostitis may follow a blovv on a bone, the source of infection in these cases often remainino- uncertain. Acute meningitis, after open wounds of the head, is almos^t invariably of septic origin. It is needless to explain how readily infection occurs in open fractures with wound of the dura mater, unless special precau- tions are taken to prevent it. In compound fractures, in which the dun mater is intact, it occurs less frequently, but is by no means uncommon and is