VENEREAL DISEASES. this, for thej are well marked in patients who have never taken any mercury during the early stages. The preparations of iodine are most useful in the various forms of visceral sj^philis, in syphilitic disease of the nervous centres, and in treatment of gummata wherever they may be situated. Useful as iodide of potassium is, however, I do not believe that syphilis can be eradicated from the system by means of it; indeed, I cannot call to mind a single case presenting marked tertiary symptoms which has been permanently relieved without the administration of mercury. Iodine is commonly administered, as iodide of potassium, in doses of from five to twenty or even thirty grains. It is often combined with some bitter infusion, but there is no advantage in this unless the patient requires a tonic. A most convenient mode of giving iodide of potassium is the following : Put one ounce of the iodide into a two-ounce bottle and fill it up with water ; let the patient take eight drops of the solution in a wineglass of water or in milk three times a day, and gradually increase the dose by two drops every two or three days till he finds by the symptoms of iodism that he has reached his limit. An intelligent patient will soon learn to regulate his dose without the necessity of constantly applying to the Surgeon. The addition of a few drops of aromatic spirit of ammonia is said to make the iodide more active. If the patient is anaemic it may be taken in conjunction with the iodide of iron. Iodide of Ammonium can sometimes be taken by patients who cannot tolerate the potassic iodide. It may be given in doses of ten grains and upwards, and two or three grains of carbonate of ammonia must be added to each dose to prevent the decomposition of the iodide. It is probably the least depressing of the iodides. Iodide of Sodium has also been recommended in doses of five grains and upwards. It is said to be less depressing than the potassium salt. In whatever way iodine is administered, if pushed beyond a certain point it gives rise to toxic symptoms known as " iodismT The amount of the drug required to produce these effects varies with every case. The symptoms resemble a bad cold in the head; there are redness of the eyes, running at the nose, and frontal headache. Every patient who is taking the iodides must be warned of these symptoms, and be told to reduce the dose immediately they appear. In severe cases swelling of the tongue and lips, and even ulceration of the pharynx, may occur. Prolonged administration of iodides not un- fi'equently gives rise to a pustular eruption resembling acne, or more rarely to large pustules on an indurated base, which dry up, leaving a scab behind them. In other cases an eruption consisting of large papules and plaques may occur about the neck and face. Purpura and albuminuria have also been attributed to its influence. It must be remembered that children do not bear the iodides well. The Sulphides of Calcium and Potassium are said to form most useful adjuvants to mercury, promoting its action and preventing its accumulation in the system. How much real value they possess is still uncertain. The Aix-la- Chapelle treatment, which has obtained great celebrity for the cure of syphilis, consists of the administration of mercury by inunction, combined with the use of the natural hot sulphur waters, both for bathing and drinking. The chief advantage derived in most cases from a visit to Aix-la-Chapelle arises from the fact that the patient, having little else to do, and beiug carefully looked