8oo INJURIES OF THE SPINE. division of the fifth nerve. The contraction of the pupil which is produced by a destructive lesion of the cilio-spinal region may be accompanied by narrowing- of the palpebral fissure from paralysis of the involuntary muscular tissue which is present in both the upper and lower lids. Changes in the Field of YisioJi.—Charcot has drawn especial attention to the retraction of the field of vision which is frequently present in cases of hysteria, and it has already been mentioned incidentally that the detection of this symptom by the use of the perimeter maybe of assistance in distinguishing between a paralysis of hysterical origin, and one resulting from a lesion of the spinal cord. The retraction may be bilateral, but in cases of unilateral affections of sensation the change in the field of vision may exist on the affected side only. In association with this retraction of the field of vision for white light may be found a retraction of the visual fields for all colours, passing on in some cases to complete loss of colour vision. The normal relation of the fields of perception of red and blue light may be reversed, the field for red remaining larger than that for blue. Changes in the Optic Nerve—HhQ changes in the ophthalmoscopic appear- ances of the fundus after injuries of the spine were carefully studied by Wharton Jones and Allbutt, but more recent investigations seem to shew that changes in the optic disc in this class of injuries are not so common as was formerly supposed. The subject has recently been inquired into by William Thorburn, who has studied the visible optical changes in definite organic lesions of the cord, in slight injuries of the back not implicating the cord, find lastly, in injuries complicated by severe general shock. Thorburn concludes that in severe injuries to the spinal cord below the third dorsal roots, no changes occur in the optic disc ; whilst " in four cases of crush of the upper part of the spinal cord (third cervical to second dorsal) where frequent examinations were made, ophthalmoscopic changes were found in three, being absent in one only." The changes consisted of haziness, with want of definition of the disc, and slight distension of the retinal veins. In the slighter forms of spinal injury, Thorburn concludes that no changes occur in the optic disc, although the chronic myelitis or meningitis which very rarely follows, may perhaps give rise to it. Lastly, there is some evidence that vascular changes in the disc may follow injuries to the spine in which o-eneral nervous shock is produced, probably of the same nature as the vaso- motor changes which occur elsewhere in this condition. In the light of our j-jresent knowledge of the subject it must be concluded that optic neuritis after spinal injuries is a rare occurrence. Diagnosis.—The dift'erential diagnosis between the various conditions above described must often be a matter of the greatest difficulty, especially when it is remembered that the symptoms in any particular case may be produced by two or more of these conditions combined. The symptoms of uncomplicated concussion are immediate in their onset and transient in character ; those due to haemorrhage appear early, rapidly reach their maxi- mum and according to the amount of damage produced, they may gradually pass away entirely or leave permanent impairment of function. Symptoms of meningitis and myelitis come on after an interval, and are often pro- gressive. Enough has already been said to enable the Surgeon to recognize such cases as are " functional " in character. The detection of malingering in the subjects of supposed spinal injury may severely test the Surgeon'*