PREDISPOSING CAUSES: STRUMA. 1095 r The occasional transmission of tuberculosis by contagion is of interest chiefly in connection with tuberculous affections of the kings. Constitutional Predisposing Causes.—Under this heading must be included the various conditious, mostly little understood, which diminish the esisting power of the tissues to the invasion of the tubercle bacillus. Of these the most important is undoubtedly the constitutional condition known as Scrofula or Struma. Scrofula is characterized, as Virchow expresses it, by an " abnormal vulnerability " of the tissues, or, in other words, by a subnormal resistance to external injurious influences, amongst which must be included the invasion of pathogenic organisms of all kinds. Scrofula is not a disease ; it is merely a constitutional predisposition to disease, and not to one disease only, but to many. If we study the diseases of those patients who present the characters to be presently described as those of the scrofulons diathesis, we shall find that it is not to tubercle alone that they show an abnormal sus- ceptibility. Scrofulous patients as a rule suffer more severely from syphilis, should they contract that disease ; gonorrhoea with them is difficult to cure ; and buboes commonly follow a soft chancre. Scrofulous children are more likely than others to die of scarlet fever or measles ; and it is a generally received opinion, though there is no very good evidence for it, that they are more liable than others to acute infective periostitis and necrosis of bone. The scrofulous diathesis is characterized chiefly by a tendency to various forms of inflammation, resulting from slight causes which would be innocuous to healthy subjects. Catarrhal inflammations of mucous membranes are especially common. Micro-organisms multiply in the discharges, and the further irrita- tion of the products of their growth causes the discharge to become purulent ; and, owing to the feeble resisting power of the tissues, the condition may be very chronic. Scrofulous catarrhal inflammation in children is especially likely to attack the eye, nose, throat, and ears. The conjimdiva becomes chronically inflamed, and the discharge becomes muco-purulent. As a sequela of this the condition known as " granular lids " is not uncommonly set up. The papillae become excessively vascular and liypertrophied, till the whole surface of the membrane appears to be covered with genuine granulation tissue. The affec- tion specially known as strumous or phlyctenular ophthalmia often leads to the formation of a small, intractable ulcer on the cornea, with intense injection of the surrounding conjunctiva. The mucous memhrane lining the nostrils becoines chronically congested, red and swollen, giving rise to habitual sniffing and to a sensation as of a constant cold. The discharge, at first merely mucous, frequently becomes purulent, and lodging in the irregularities of the nasal fossse, decomposes, giving rise to the most offensive smell. This condition, known as strumous ozcena, may sooner or later cause ulceration of the membrane and subsequent necrosis of 'the bones. Occasionally the lining membrane of the antrum becomes irritated, and this may be followed by enlargement of the cavity and discharge of un- healthy pus into the nostrils. The mucous membra?ie of the throat is chronically congested, and the adenoid tissue of the naso-pharynx is often hypertrophied ; the tonsils may be enlarged. Chronic purulent discharge from the ear, scrofulous otorrha'a, is another very common affection. The disease most frequently commences in the middle ear, the discharge finding its way out by perforating the membrana