444 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. used it must be soaked in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid in water. The breadth of tlie ligature makes it impossible to divide the inner and middle coats of the artery while tying it, and it seems to be more slowly absorbed than carbolised catgut. In 1881 Barwell reported fourteen cases in which the ligature had been successfully applied to large arteries. In every case the obliteration of the vessel was accomplished and nothing was seen of the ligature after the operation. The subject has been brought forward again by C. A. Ballance and W. Edmunds, who, by a series of carei'ully conducted experiments, showed that in horses and sheep large vessels can be successfully obliterated without division of any of their coats by the appHcation of a small round chromic catgut or tendon ligature tied so as merely to arrest the flow of blood. Such ligatures will resist absorption for at least three weeks (a longer period than the old carbolised catgut), and by that time the artery, in all their experiments, was safely obliterated. The mere pressure of the ligature is sufficient to cause proliferation of the endothelium, and union of the surfaces pressed to- gether, thus occluding the vessel. They therefore maintain that in every case of ligature of an artery in its continuity, it is neither necessary nor advisable to rupture the coats. The probability is that in all arteries of the size of the superficial femoral, and below it, it matters little, as far as safety is con- cerned, whether the coats are divided or not, provided the wound follows an aseptic course and unites by first intention, and probably permanent occlusion will be more certain if the inner and middle coat are cut. In larger arteries, however, secondary haemorrhage has occurred Avith great frequency after ligature with division of the coats, and in some, such as the first part of the subclavian, the innominate, and the aorta, with such constancy that the only hope of success seems to lie in not injuring the arterial wall. Temporary Ligatures.—With the view of removing the various incon- veniences that resulted from the presence of the ligatures in the wound, and especially with the object of promoting union by the first intention, some Surgeons attempted the use of temporary ligatures. This subject has now in a great measure become matter of history, for the study of which the writings of Jones, Travers, Velpeau, and others may be referred to. It may, however, be stated, that the general result of the experi- ments made and the experience gained on this subject is as follows :— Jones found that, on cutting through the internal and middle coats of the carotid artery of a horse at three or four different points, with as many liga- tures, and then immediately removing them, an " effusion of lymph occurred by which the artery was plugged up." These observations were not confirmed by other experimenters, such as Hodgson, Travers, and Dalrymple. But Travers found that, if the ligature was left in for several hours, or even for one hour, and then removed, obliteration of the artery ensued. Roberts ap- plied a hgature to the femoral artery for popliteal aneurism, and, on removing it after 24 hours, found the artery closed; and Travers hgatured the brachial artery of a man, and, on removing the ligature at the end of 50 hours, obtained an equally successful result. Their example was followed by Scarpa and Paletta. Notwithstanding these favourable results, the failure of the method in the hands of Astley Cooper, Hutchinson, Beclard, and Travers himself, and the observation of Vacca that, if the ligature be left on the artery lono- enouo'h to cause its obliteration, the section of the vessel is effected sooner