204 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATLON. ducts of decomposing matter from the inflamed area, and thus acquires an additional power of causing fever; this can be prevented only by proper antiseptic precautions, or by draining off the exudation externally. In specific infective inflammations the fever may be due to contamination of the blood by the presence of some poison multiplying in it, as in septiceemia (septic infection), pyaemia, or malignant pustule. At present we are not acquainted with any means of definitively destroying the poison in such cases; we can only support the patient in eveiy way in our power, by food and careful nursing, so as to enable him to withstand its evil influence. In those cases in which the nervous symptoms of fever ai'e predominant, sedatives must be ad- ministered internally. Lastly, certain drugs are used empirically, from their known power of reducing the temperature in fever, amongst the most im- portant of these being alcohol, quinine, salicylate of soda, aconite, anti- pyrin, antifebrin, phenacetin, &c. The application of cold generally to the body by baths or wet packing, or locally to the head by an ice-cap, as recommended by Knowsley Thornton, useful as they undoubtedly are in cases of very high fever, are but empirical jnodes of treatment, as they attack one symptom only, leaving the cause untouched. No Surgeon sJiculd rely solely on such means as these unless it is heyond his power to discover, or to remove, the cause of the fever by cutting off the supply of the pyrogenic substance, as by opening an abscess, establishing proper drainage in a wound, or cleaning out septic matter from any cavity in the body. The above principles serving more or less as our guides, we can now con- sider more in detail their practical application in the treatment of acute inflammation. The Preventive Treatment of inflammation can be employed only in cases of injury. All injuries of any severity—as cuts, bruises, sprains, or fractures—must necessarily be followed by a certain degree of inflammation ; but this simple traumatic inflammation has no tendency to spread beyond the area injured, which, in the case of a clean-cut wound, is little more than a microscopic layer of tissue ; nor does it tend to pass beyond the stage of simple exadation into that of suppuration or ulceration, unless some further cause of irritation come into play after the injury. When we talk, therefore, of the prevention of inflammation, we do not mean the prevention of the simple adhesive inflammation which follows an injury, for that is impossible ; but we mean the exclusion of all sources of irritation which could intensify or prolong the process or make it assume a spreading form. The irritants we have chiefly to guard against are the products of putrefaction and the specific poisons of the various infective inflammations. The essential cause of putre- faction being an organised ferment, and the actual virus of almost all infective inflammations being of the same nature, the exclusion of micro-organisms' from the injured area forms the most essential part of the preventive treat- ment of inflammation. The simple non-pathogenic, or septic organisms, cannot live in the blood-stream, and consequently always find their way to the injured part directly from wnthout, being carried to it cither by the air, or in water, or on solid bodies, such as the instrument inflicting the wound, or the Surgeon's hands, or from the patient's own skin. On the other hand, there is strong reason to believe that some pathogenic organisms may enter by the lungs or alimentary canal and be carried by the blood-stream to the injured part, although, doubtless, they far more commonly enter an open