434 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. side, it must he passed from the nerve. If care he not taken the vein may he transfixed or inchided in the hgature—an accident that has often terminated fatally by phlebitis or gangrene. The operator must be on his guard not to mistake any contiguous nerve for the artery, as has happened to the most experienced operators; and also to avoid transfixing and tying a portion of the sheath instead of the vessel, as I have known happen to a most excellent Surgeon. These accidents can scarcely occur iu a healthy state of the parts if the artery be thoroughly and carefully cleaned, and the needle passed actually in contact with the external coat. After the ligature has been passed, its two ends should be held firmly in one hand and the forefinger of the other hand pressed down into the loop, while an assistant feels the pulsation of some branch below, or of the tumour in the case of an aneurism. If the pulsation is arrested by the pressure of the finger iu the loop of the ligature, the operator is sure that he has got the artery, and Fig. 134.—Passing tlie needle : l.st stage. Fig. 135.-Pasi3ing the iieertle : 2nd stage. he may tie the knot. The ends of the ligature are then cut off close to the knot. In ligaturing an artery in its continuity the injured portion is necessarily exposed to the longitudinal strain due to the elasticity of the artery. On the other hand, when the vessel is completely divided and each end tied separately this source of disturbance is removed. It has frequently been suggested that it would be safer in all cases to apply two ligatures and to divide the artery betw^een them. This practice iias had many advocates, the chief of whom in this country was Abernethy ; but it never came into general use. It has, however, lately been revived by Walsham in St. Bartholomew's Hospital, and possibly it may be of service in those parts of the body in which it is not easy by position to relax the vessel and keep it at perfect rest after it is tied. The method should, however, never be applied to the large vessels at the root of the neck. Effects of Ligature.—The immediate effects on an artery of the applica- tion of a ligature with a sufficient degree of force are the division of the internal and middle coats of the vessel (Fig. 136), and the constriction of its