748 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. may result from bleeding, purging, and mercurializing the patient. Complete rest, the removal of all mental and sensoiy excitement, shaving the head, the application of ice, a mild aperient or an occasional enema, are all that can be done in the way of medical treatment. As the constitutional powers are depressed, they must not be too much lowered by complete abstinence from food; small quantities of milk and beef-tea must be given at intervals, but stimulants are rarely, if ever, required. Bromide of potassium is often very useful in 30-grain doses. In some cases where there is great restlessness, and some delirium, without any sign of encephalitis having supervened, chloral will be found of great value, or an opiate even may be given to quiet the patient and induce sleep. This cerebral irritation is the only form of primary cerebral disturbance in which I have seen opiates act beneficially; but their administration requires great care, and must not be ventured on if there be any elevation of tempei-ature or quickness of pulse. Should the signs of depression give way to those of subacute meningitis, the patient becoming noisy, restless and sleepless, venesection may be practised with great advan- tage. The bleeding should be followed up by the administration of bromide of potassium or chloral. In the treatment of all these conditions, it is impos- sible to insist too strongly on the paramount importance of absolute rest and quiet. No conversation, lights, or noise should be allowed in the patient's room, and no injudicious attempts should be made to rouse him or to ascer- tain by inquiry if he is conscious. Much depends on careful and quiet nursing; on attention to minor details, as the avoidance of noises, of flicker- ing lights ; and on the frequent administration of liquid food in small quantities, or per rectum. Summary of Treatment.—The following treatment should be applied in all cases of head injury attended with unconsciousness, whether special opera- tive interference be needed or not:— 1. The head must be shaved and slightly elevated on hard pillows. 2. Any scalp wound must be treated antiseptically. 3. Hot bottles applied to the feet—an ice-bag to the head if there be signs of compression, but not in simple concussion or if the patient be collapsed. 4. From two to five grains of calomel placed on the tongue on the second day. 5. The lower bowel emptied by a turpentine enema on the second or third day, and the catheter used if necessary. 6. The room darkened—the necessary fire and lights being screened. 7. No conversation in the room allowed ; all noises avoided ; slippers sub- stituted for creaking boots ; the coal put on with the hand; the fire stirred with a stick. 8. The diet to consist of spoon-food—iced milk or at most chicken-broth, thickened with arrowroot or cornflour. Stimulants avoided if possible. 9. If the patient cannot swallow, nutritive enemata may be given every fourth hour. CONTUSION AND LACERATION OF THE BRAIN. Contusion and Laceration of the Brain and of its Membranes are frequent in injuries of the head, and are among the most important com-