GENERAL REMARKS OX OPERATIONS. 24 the administration of one minim of tincture of nux vomica in a teaspoonful of hot water every ten minutes for one hour. Inj-ertain diseased condiiions, such as, early phthisis, chronic bronchitis, and various forms of heart disease, the administration of ether requires much care. In persons who are epileptic, and in red-faced apoplectic-looking men, it must be cautiously administered, as in the early stages it is apt to cause much cerebral excitement. Ether is usually considered to be especially dangerous in] advanced kidney disease. These conditions will be more fully discussed when considering the choice of an aneesthetic (p. 35). Death, from the Administration of Ether may arise from various causes. Cautley Dawson, in iha British Medical Journal, March 2, 1878, published a collection of eighteen cases in which death took place either during or soon after the administration of ether. Of these he excluded nine, on the grounds that ether was not the only anesthetic used, or that it was possible the death might have been due to other causes. Of the remaining nine cases, in seven the heart continued to beat for some time after respiration had ceased, and in two this point was doubtful. All the patients di(^d from asphyxia, as indicated by the dusky face, the shallow respiration, and the long interval, varying from four minutes to fifteen or more, between the first mani- festation of serious symptoms and death. At the post-mortem examination the lungs were found gorged with blood in five of the seven cases examined; in one more "the pulmonary artery was said to be engorged" ; in one only w^ere the lungs pale, and in this case the symptoms did not come on till one hour and a half after the patient had left the operating theatre. These cases confirm the generally received opinion, founded on experiments on animals, that ether kills by acting primarily on the respiratory centre, and that the heart is never affected first. Ether is said, therefore, to possess the advantage that, when it does give rise to dangerous effects, the serious symptoms develop gradually, and give plenty of time for the adoption of the necessary measures to;restore the patient. Amongst the fatal cases recorded, there are, however, undoubtedly some in which there seems good reason to believe that the respi- ration and the heart's action ceased simultaneously ; but even in these, duski- ness of the face is most commonly mentioned as the first symptom, and very probably there was some degree of asphyxia before the heart ceased acting. It is quite easy to understand how a weak or dilated heart may fail under the influence of ether, in consequence of obstruction to the pulmonary circulation from the direct irritation of the lungs by the ether vapour, and from the semi-asphyxia caused by excessive accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes. Many patients who wei'e previously suffering fi-om bronchitis and emphy- sema have also undoubtedly been killed by slow asphyxia consequent upon the aggravation of the disease by the irritation of the ether vapour. In a few recorded cases, death has taken place within a few hours from acute oedema of the lung. Owing to the extremely violent respiration often met with during the inhalation of ether, blood or vomited matter is readily drawn into the air passages. In a fatal case which occurred at University College Hospital after an operation for strangulated hernia, the patient recovered consciousness and survived two hours. At the post-mortem examination, fgecal matter w^as found in the bronchi, even in their smaller divisions.