COMPOUND FRACTURE: TREATMENT. 557 pound fracture of the lower third of the leg, with a simple fracture of the middle of the thigh ; or a crush of the hand or forearm, with simple fracture of the middle of the humerus. The proper course to adopt, if the intermediate soft parts are sufficiently sound, is to remove the limb just above the lower fracture, the upper fracture being treated on ordinary principles. But if there be extensive bruising of the limb with deep extravasation between the fractures, then it would clearly be useless to amputate low down, as not only would the stump have to be formed of severely injured tissues, but if septic inflammation set in at the seat of operation, it would speedily spread upwards to the higher fracture, converting it into a compound one of the worst kind. In sQch cases, therefore, the proper course is to remove the limb at or above the line of the higher fracture. 7, The comphcation of a Dislocation high up, with a compound Frac- ture low down, is not so serious. The dislocation having been reduced, the fracture is to be treated according to- the principles already laid down. If amputation be required it may be safely performed, as in a case under my care some years since, in which I had occasion to amputate the forearm of a young man for a bad crush by machinery, the case being comphcated by a dislocation of the humerus. In some cases in which there is great doubt as to the possibility of saving the Kmb, especially in compound fractures of the upper limb and foot, the injured part may be dressed antiseptically, and amputation, if necessary, per- formed at a later period. The exclusion of putrefaction will prevent the septic fever, the spreading inflammation, and the dangers of general infection, which in former times made it safer to perform a primary amputation in all cases in which the prospects of recovery without operation were very doubtful. Treatment of Compound Fracture.—In the management of a compound fracture, more especially of the lower extremity, special apparatus, such as M'Intyre's, Thomas's, or bracketspiints, swing-boxes, and fracture-beds, are often necessary, in order to obtain access to the wound, and to place the limb in the best position for union. In many cases the starched or plaster bandage may very advantageously be used ; but it requires caution, as swelling and consequent strangulation of the limb may take place under it. There are several points that require special attention. These are : 1, the Reduction and the Management of Protruding Bone ; 2, the Management of SpHnters ; 3, the Treatment of Oozing of Blood ; 4, the Treatment of the Wound. 1. The Reduction of compound fractures must be accomplished with the same care and gentleness as that of simple ones. In the majority of cases, no great difficulty is experienced ; and after reduction, the limb should be placed on a well-padded splint, properly protected in the neigh- bourhood of the wound with oiled silk, so as to prevent soiling of the pads by blood and discharge. In some cases, however, considerable difficulty arises in the reduction, from the protrusion of one of the broken fragments which has been driven through the skin at the time of the accident, or from careless handling of the limb in carrying the patient, or else from the muscular contrac- tions dragging the lower fragment forcibly upwards, and thus causing perforation of the integument. The protruded bone, after being carefully cleaned with some antiseptic solution, must, if possible, be gently replaced, by relaxing the muscles of the limb. Sometimes, however, it is so tightly embraced by the