158 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. dently with the first signs of retardatiou of the blood-stream, a change is observed in the relation of the corpuscles to each other and to the walls of the vessels. They no longer flow freely and separately onwards, but show an adhesiveness not observed before, in consequence of which they tend to stick to each other and to the wall of the vessel through which they are passing. Even in health the colourless corpuscles show some degree of adhesiveness and are to be seen rolling along the wall of the vessel in the inert layer. It is not surprising, therefore, that the first signs of increased adhesiveness are noticed in the white corpuscles, which fall out of the axial stream more and more and adhere to the walls of the vessels, while the red continue to pass onwards. Thus, after a short time, a great increase of colourless corpuscles is observed in the vessels of the inflamed area ; and in the small veins, in which the force of the circulation is least, they soon form a uniform layer, almost like an epithelium, adhering to the inner coat of the vessel. They are, as it were, filtered out of the passing blood, the red moving on whilst they remain behind. After a short time, as the vitality of the mesentery fails, the red corpuscles also begin to be arrested in their passage through the vessels, first in the veins and capillaries, and finally in the arteries. In the capillaries, owing to the small size of the vessels, which mostly allow only a single line of corpuscles to pass, the separation of the colourless corpuscles from the red cannot take place, and here we find the red and white mixed together. In the small arteries the first sign of retardation is that a few corpuscles stick to the inner coat during diastole of the heart, and are driven on at the next systole ; and thus the stream, which in health is uniform in the more minute arteries, becomes pulsating. As the vitality of the part sinks still lower the accumulation of corpuscles increases till the vessels become choked ; the red corpuscles forming, in the frog, a yellowish mass in which the individual cells cannot be recognised. All circulation is thus arrested—a condition known as " stasis." Immediately before stasis becomes complete a slight movement forward may be noticed with each systole of the heart, followed by a return of the corpuscles to their former situation during diastole, an appearance to which the name of "oscillation" is given. The time occupied in the development of complete stasis is entirely dependent on the nature of the injury which causes it. It may be induced instantaneously by the application of"any strong irritant to the web of a frog's foot ; while, in a carefully tended mesentery, its advent may be delayed for a whole day or even longer. It is evident that stasis involves a complete arrest of nutrition, which must, unless relieved, inevitably end in the death of the affected tissues before long. Should this occur, the plasma which still remains in small quantity amongst the closely packed corpuscles coagulates, and stasis becomes converted into thrombosis; that is to say, plugging of vessels with coagulated blood. On the other hand, should the tissues not be injured beyond recovery, the condi- tion of stasis gradually passes off; at first some oscillatory movement is noticed ; then a few of the corpuscles at the margins begin to break away into the blood-stream, and finally they all seem to lose the tendency to stick to each other or to the vessel, and move off, and the circulation gradually resumes its normal character. The retarded flow and stasis are degrees of the same condition, and it remains now to consider the causes which bring it about. In the healthy state of the circulation, as before stated, the corpuscles show no tendency to