TREATMENT OF CHRONIC INFLAMMATION. 229 effusion which takes place, and the production of new tissue which often constitutes the distinctive characteristic of the disease. The impairment of function is constantly present as in acute inflammation, but to a very varying degree. Constitutional Symptoms.—These are less marked in chronic than in acute inflammation. The patient is in most cases, however, in impaired health ; being, in many instances, affected with some constitutional taint which has had its influence in producing or maintaining the chronic character of the inflammation. In all cases in which there is chronic suppuration, and in most of the chronic infective inflammations, the pulse will be found to be above the normal standard, and slight febrile disturbance, often of a distinctly periodic character, is usually present. In these cases the temperature should be closely watched, and a rise towards evening especially noted as an important indication of a smouldering inflammatory process. Treatment. Constitutional.—In chronic inflammation, the so-called antiphlogistic treatment is never required. Local nutrition is always deeply modified in chronic inflammation ; and it can be restored to its normal con- dition only by improving the patient's general health, and at the same time producing an impression on the part itself by appropriate topical means. Hence, in the treatment of chronic inflammation, hygienic measures are of the first consequence. The treatment of this form of inflammation must likewise be varied according as it is uncomplicated, occurring in an otherwise healthy constitution ; or as it assumes a congestive or passive character in a cachectic and feeble system ; or as it is met with affecting a specific form in an unhealthy constitution. In the majority of chronic, as of acute inflammations, it is necessary to give rest to the affected part, as in white swelling of a joint, or disease of the vertebrae, but as a rule confinement to bed should be avoided if possible. The patient should be in pure air ; sea-air being especially useful in all tuberculous inflammations. The patient should be warmly clothed. The action of the bowels should be regulated, if necessary, by purgatives. Atten- tion to the diet is of great importance ; it should in all cases be light and unstimulating, sufficient in quantity, but not excessive. Alcohol is very rarely required in the treatment of chronic inflammations ; in fact, as its abuse is one of the most common predisposing causes of such affections, it is more commonly necessary to restrain the patient from its use than to encourage him in it. In tuberculous disease of any kind its use is ouly required when it encourages the appetite and aids digestion, and then it should be taken only with meals. The practice of giving such patients a glass of wine once or twice a day between meals to " keep up their sti-ength " cannot be too strongly condemned. It does not really give strength, and the habit is apt to grow upon the patient during a long illness, and may become extremely troublesome. A little warm beef-tea or soup, or a cup of properly made tea will usually produce the desired effect more safely. In chronic sup- puration with great exhaustion, as in the asthenic form of inflammatory fever, stimulants may be required. In gouty inflammations, and in most of those due to rheumatism, wine and beer should be avoided ; distilled alcoholic drinks only being allowed, and those only in small quantities with meals. When, as IS so often the case, the chronic inflammation is due to some definite constitu- tional affection, such as gout, rheumatism, or syphilis, the general treatment