AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. 145 the two smaller glutei. The muscles thus being- put on the stretch by the Surgeon's thumb, the point of the knife is made to cut over the trochanter and down the upper part of the bone, separating the muscles attached to it, first in front and then behind. The limb is then forcibly adducted, and the Assistant at the same time tries to lift the head of the femur out by putting one of his hands on the inner side of the thigh as high up as possible. The operator then opens the joint by making a firm cut in the line of the superficial incision, so as to make a vertical slit in the capsule and divide the cotyloid ligament, and thus to render dislocation more easy. Another incision is then carried transversely through the capsule in the line of its attachment. The head of the bone then starts from the socket, and the point of the knife is inserted so as to divide the round ligament. If the head does not come out readily, the Assistant may seize the exposed trochanter with a ?'ig. 83.-Lines of Incision for Amputation at Hip. a, Furneaux Jordan's Method ; h Oval Method • (■ d, Upper Border of Trochanter. pair of lion-forceps and drag it forcibly outwards. The remainder of tlie capsule on the inner side is then cut, and the Assistant can now lay hold of the trochanter and pull it forcibly out of the wound, and the operato'r o-ettino- his knife to the inner side while he holds the soft parts out of the way with his left hand, gradually separates the bone from its attachments till it is exposed as low as is required. During this part of the operation the limb must still be adducted to the greatest possible extent. Having reached the point at which the commencement of the transverse part of the incision has already been marked, the Surgeon turns the edge of the knife away fi-om the bone and cuts across to the inner side of the limb, thus completino- the am- putation. During this part of the operation the Assistant must brino- the hmb into a straight line with the trunk. The artery must be compresse'd bv another Assistant with one hand in the upper part of the wound If the hmb be very muscular it is a good plan, after having enucleated the upper part of the lemur, to complete the circular part of the incision by cuttiuo- from VOL. I. ^