CONTUSION OF CRANIAL BONES. 721 This cerebral complication may either be produced by direct injury, the frag- ments of the fractured bone compressing or wounding the brain ; or it may be the result of concussion or laceration of the brain by the same violence that causes the fracture. Bending-in of the Cranial Bones without Feacture is an accident that may occur in infants and young children, before the bones of the skull are completely ossified. In several instances, the displaced bone has been raised by aspiration with an india-rubber sucker. But no harm comes of leaving the bone depressed, as it will generally recover its proper level in time. Contusion of the Cranial Bones without fracture, occasioned either by ordinary direct violence or by the oblique impact of bullets, is a very serious injury, more particularly when complicated with wound of the scalp. In it there are four sources of danger, any one of which may be followed by a fatal result; viz. : 1. Necrosis of the part of the bone struck, leading to exfoliation of the outer table, or to separation of the whole thickness of the cranium and exposure of the dura mater ; 2. Suppuration under the bone, between it and the dura mater ; 3. Pyemia with secondary visceral abscesses, consequent on suppuration of the diploe around the necrosed point of bone, and septic thrombosis of the cranial veins,—a condition to which reference has already been made ; and, 4. Laceration of the brain immediately beneath the point struck, or at the corresponding spot on the opposite side of the brain. The former condition occurs only when the blow is very violent, sudden, and limited to a small area, as when the skull is grazed by a bullet. Under other circumstances the chief laceration is always on the opposite side of the brain. The following statement, taken from the records of the War Department of the^ United States army, gives a good summary of the results of gunshot con- tusions of the skull without fracture, or, at any rate, in which the fracture was limited to the inner table. In many of these there was without doubt some -superficial laceration or bruising of the brain. Of 328 cases, 55 died, 173 were disabled, 100 recovered. The deaths arose from hemorrhage, 2 ; tetanus, 4 ; pyemia, 4 ; dysentery and fever, 8 ; com- pression from blood or pus, 17 ; various intracranial injuries, 20. These injuries appeared to be most dangerous in the temporal and frontal reo-ions and least so in the occipital. ^ ' Amongst the 173 disabled, the following complications are specified as the causes of the disability :— Persistent pain in the head, 10 ; paralysis of limbs, more or less marked .23 ; impairment of vision, IG (wounds mostly in the frontal region) • impair- ment of hearing, 14 (wounds mostly in parietal and temporal regions, but some frontal and some occipital) ; epilepsy, 9 ; insanity, 10. Vertigo, giddiness and dizziness were some of the commonest complaints amono- pensioners Fractures of the Skull are invariably the result of "external violence Ihis may act directly in breaking and splintering the part struck, the fissures often extending to a considerable distance and detaching large portions of the skull; or the violence may act in an mcM,-ect manner, producing the fracture either without being applied immediately to the cranium, or else at an opposite par of the skull to that which is struck. Thus the base of the skull may be fractured by the shock communicated to it when a person, falling from .1 height strikes the ground heavily with his feet. A somewhat doubtful variety of indirect fracture m which the lesion occurs at a point of the skul VOL. I. 3 A