996 TETANUS. employment of these measures. On the other hand, in acute cases they have proved as impotent as the others. In the Constitutional Treatment of the disease it is necessary to bear m mind that tetanus is an affection of debihty, the violence of the spasmodic paroxysms giving an appearance of false strength to the patient ; and that the principal source of danger and death is the exhaustion induced by the energy of the muscular movements. The means adopted should, therefore, have for their object the removal of irritation and the support of the patient's strength, so as to enable him to hold up against the disease. Nothing can be more unsatisfactory than the treatment of the Acuie form of traumatic tetanus. In it, all drugs are useless as curative agents, unless perhaps the antitoxine already mentioned (p. 995) prove an exception. Medicines may however act as palliatives, and afford relief to the patient; and much may be done by the Surgeon to mitigate his sufferings, and to place him in a favourable condition to withstand the exhaustion, and to lessen the torture of the spasms. With this view, the first thing to be done is to clear the bowels out well with an aperient dose ; aided, if necessary, by a turpentine enema. The patient should then be kept perfectly quiet in a room by himself, a screen or muslin curtains, as recommended by Marshall Hall, being drawn round the bed, as noise or movement of any kind greatly increases the spasms. In order to allay the spinal irritation the most effectual plan is, perhaps, that recommended by Todd, of applying ice along the whole length of the spine : this is best done by a caoutchouc spine-bag. This is a powerful depressing agent, and care must be taken in its use. It may, however, be applied with safety for six or eight hours, the condition of the patient being carefully watched in the meanwhile. Sedative or antispasmodic agents are of no use whatever in acute traumatic tetanus. I have seen many drugs of this kind employed, without lessening in any degree the violence of the convulsions. In most cases, however, the inhalation of chloroform, or the administration of chloral, materially diminishes their severity, and gives the patient at least temporary ease. In the Sulacuie or Chronic form of the disease, recovery is much more Ukely to take place ; and it is only in these cases that antispasmodics and sedatives have been of use, and in these also chloroform and chloral are far more beneficial than in the acute cases. Almost every drug in the Pharmacopoeia of a tonic, sedative, or antispasmodic nature has been employed in tetanus : and the recovery which has occasionally resulted has been perhaps over hastily attributed to the remedy, rather than to the employment of those dietetic and hygienic means which are of the first importance, by enabling the patient to live on until the disease wears itself out. Tonics, especially iron and quinine, have been employed by some. Elliotson was strongly impressed with the value of the carbonate of iron. Sedatives in all forms—conium, belladonna, opium, and their alkaloids—have been largely, and for the most part ineffectually, em- ployed. Miller speaks highly of cannabis indica pushed to narcotism, three o-rains'of the extract, or thirty minims of the tincture, being given every half hour or hour ; and Haughtou has employed nicotine in one-drop doses administered every second hour, with some apparent success in severe cases ol' traumatic tetanus. The Calabar bean (Fhysostigma) is the remedy that perhaps deserves physiologically the most attention ; for as it is nearly if not quite antagonistic