858 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. Subcutaneous Wounds of the Lung from Fractured Ribs.—Slight injuries to the hing are extremely common in fractures of the ribs by direct violence, but as has already been pointed out, they are much less likely to occur in fractures by indirect violence, as in these the pointed ends of the fragments are directed outwards. These injuries rarely extend deeply into the lung. The usual symptoms are slight hemoptysis, ceasing by the second day, followed by rusty sputa and limited dulness round the injury, and, possibly, at the base of the pleural cavity, from extravasated blood. There may be a little coarse crepitation from blood in the lung. Emphysema is of frequent occur- rence, but pneumothorax is a rare complication ; it seems that a little air readily finds its way across the pleural cavity, without any separation of the visceral from the parietal pleura, probably in consequence of the natural cohesion of two smooth moist surfaces. Occasionally the absence of air in the pleural cavity in these cases may be due to the presence of adhesions. The emphysema in these cases is rarely extensive. These slight wounds of the lung in a healthy subject scarcely add to the gravity of the case, and require no treatment beyond that of the fractured rib. More severe wounds of the lung may occur from fractures of the ribs, accompanied by pneumothorax, extensive emphysema and hsemothorax. These are occasionally followed by pleurisy with effusion, or even empyema. The majority of these severe injuries, however, do well if the patient is healthy and there is no open wound. Penetrating Wounds of the Thorax with Wound of the Lung.— A penetrating wound is recognized by the presence of an external opening, through which air is frequently drawn in and out during respiration, with the signs, already indicated, of wound of the lung. These cases are always serious, as owing to the admission of air from without there is great risk of the occurrence of septic pleurisy and pneumonia. Moreover, in a large proportion of cases the injury to the lung extends more deeply than any wound which can possibly be inflicted by a broken rib. Wounds of the Lung hj sharp ^jeiietraiing instruments, as knives or swords, are specially liable to be complicated by profuse hsemorrhage, both into the pleura and into the air-tubes. "When they penetrate the chest-wall obliquely, so as to leave a valved opening, they may give rise to emphysema and pneumo- thorax ; in fact, it is in this class of cases that these conditions have most commonly been met with in an extreme degree. Septic pleurisy and empyema are common complications, but from the clean, incised character of the wound and the absence of foreign bodies carried into it there is a fair hope of pre- venting these complications and obtaining union of the external wound by the first intention if proper treatment be adopted. Wounds of the Lung hy Hunt instruments, as in bullet or shell wounds or in machinery accidents, form by far the gravest class of these injuries. In con- sequence of the form and size of the external opening, emphysema is a some- what rare complication, and when air is present in the pleura it is seldom at any degree of pressure. Hsemothorax, to a greater or less extent, is always present, and in the majority of cases, as the external wound can scarcely heal l)y the first intention, septic pleurisy and empyema follow the injury. It is sometimes complicated by spreading inflammation of the lung, terminating iu suppuration or gangrene. These cases are frequently complicated by the lodgment of foreign bodies, such as bullets or pieces of clothing.