SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. connection with the rest of the foot. These dislocations are almost invariably connected with fracture of the lower end of the fibula, or of the inner mal- leolus. In fact, on looking at the arched cavity into which the astragalus is received, it is evident that this bone can scarcely be displaced laterally without fracture of one side of this arch. In considering these dislocations we must, in accordance with the general nomenclature of similar accidents, in which the distal part is always said to be displaced from the proximal, look upon the foot as being dislocated from the leg, and not consider the tibia as being displaced upon the foot. It is necessary to explain this, inasmuch as a good deal of ambiguity occurs in surgical writings from the same accident being described differently, according to the view taken of the part displaced. Thus, Astley Cooper speaks of the tibia as being dislocated at the ankle ; whilst Boyer and others, regarding the foot as the part displaced, have described the same injury in directly opposite terms. Dislocations of the foot from the bones of the leg may take place in four directions viz., to either side, lackwards, ov forwards. In all cases, the injury appears to be occasioned either by the foot being twisted under the patient in jumping or running ; or else by its being suddenly arrested by coming into contact with the ground whilst the body is carried forwards. The lateral dis- locations when simple are almost invariably incomplete, although rare cases have been recorded in which they were complete. Compound lateral disloca- tions, the result of extreme violence, are not uncommonly complete. The simple antero-posterior dislocations are more commonly complete. The incomplete dislocation Outwards is of most frequent occurrence. The inner malleolus projects forcibly against the skin. The deltoid ligament is either ruptured, or the lower end of the inner malleolus broken off; there is a depression above the outer ankle corresponding to a fracture of the fibula; and the sole of the foot is turned upwards and outwards, the inner side touching the ground, whilst the outer edge is turned up. It is, in fact, merely a severe case of Pott's fracture (Fig. 235). In the dislocation Inwards, which is a rare accident, the lower end of the tibia is splintered off in an oblique manner from within outwards, whilst the external lateral ligament is ruptured or the fibula broken. The outer edge of the sole rests against the ground, and the inner side is turned up. The astragalus is thus rotated on its longitudinal axis in such a way that the inner articular surface is in contact with the lower end of the tibia. Reduction oi these lateral displacements is readily effected by traction on the foot, while the leg is flexed at the knee in order to relax the muscles of the calf; leg splints with lateral foot-pieces must then be put on, or Dupuytren's splint may be applied on the side opposite to that to which the foot is displaced. In the dislocation of the foot Backwards, the deltoid ligament is ruptured, the fibula probably broken in the usual situation, and the tibia rests on the scaphoid and cuneiform bones; the foot consequently appears shortened, the heel rendered more projecting, and the toes pointing downwards. Partial dislocation in this direction may occur without fracture, as the following case will show. A boy, aged about 14, wresthng with another felt his left foot give way and fell. He was unable to stand, and was at once brought to University College Hospital. Two hours afterwards there was no swelling about the ankle. The sole looked directly downwards, but the foot