991 CAUSES OF TETANUS. ligature of the umbilical cord in infants, and even the uterine irritation following abortion. Tetanus may be occasioned by injuries that do not give rise to breach of surface : thus I have known it occur in a child which was suddenly thrown down upon its back by another at play, in a girl from a boy jumping on to her back, and in a lad by another striking him on the back by running a wheel- barrow at him ; and Eeid mentions a case produced by the stroke of a whip ; but in the great majority of cases, it is directly occasioned by a wound of some kind. It is also stated that the disease may arise from other causes besides injuries occasioning the Idiopathic form of tetanus : thus, for instance, it has been said to have been due to exposure to cold and wet. Tetanus may occur at all ages, from the earhest infancy to an advanced period of life. In hot climates it is common amongst newly-born infants, in the form of Trismus Neonatorum. In this country it rarely occurs at this very early period of life, but is most common in young adults. I have most frequently observed it between the ages of 16 and 25, and after that in old people ; but it may occur at any period of hfe. It is far more common amongst males than females—in the proportion of about four to one. Season of the year seems to exercise little influence over it. It occurs in all states of the atmosphere, and at all periods of the year ; but is certainly most common when the weather is suddenly changeable—alternating from heat to cold. Indeed, long exposure to cold and wet, more particularly after the body has been heated, is said to be the most common cause of .tetanus when it occurs independently of surgical injury, and is a frequent predisposing cause in persons who have been wounded. Tetanus may occur in all constitutions; it is especially apt, however, to occur in feeble and debilitated individuals, and, indeed, may be looked upon as a disease of debihty. When it occurs in persons who are otherwise strong and in the prime of life, it will usually be found that they have been exposed to causes of depression affecting the nervous system. In tropical climates, as in some of the West India Islands, and amongst the marshes of Cayenne, it occurs with peculiar frequency, and after the most trifling scratches or punctures. Poland states that the mortality from it is in London "025 per cent., whereas in Bombay it causes 2*5 per cent, of the total deaths. It is interesting to observe, that the natives of hot climates are far more liable to this disease than Europeans resident there. In the American Civil War, 3-1 per cent, of the cases occurred amongst the negro troops, who furnished only 2*7 per cent, of the total number of wounds. In military practice tetanus is of common occurrence. Its frequency varies much in different campaigns and under different circumstances, especially of season and climate. In the Peninsular War, it was estimated to occur in the proportion of about one case in every 200 wounded ; in the Schleswio-. Holstein War of 1849, according to Stromeyer, once in about 350 cases. In the Crimea it appears to have been of rare occurrence. In the American War it occurred in 0-2 per cent, of the wounded. After naval engage- ments, however, the mortality has often been high, more particularfy in tropical climates. Gilbert Blane states that, after Rodney's action in the West Indies, out of 810 wounded 20 were attacked with tetanus, being one in 40. All European Army Surgeons are agreed that sudden changes from heat to*