99° TETANUS. number of cases the subcutaneous injection of earth in rabbits, mice and guinea-pigs was followed by a fatal disease exactly resembling tetanus. Whenever this occurred there was present in the tissues, with other organisms, a fine and very small bacillus. Further observations showed that pus from the seat of inoculation produced the same disease in other animals, and contained the organism. It was subsequently cultivated on coagulated serum and inoculated with positive results. Dogs were not affected by the virus. In 1886 Rosenbach communicated a disease exactly resembling tetanus to rabbits by inoculating them with matter taken from the edge of the sore in a case of frost-bite, which terminated fatally from acute tetanus. In the diseased tissues he found, amongst other organisms, a very fine bacillus exactly resembling that described by Nicolaier. He obtained cultivations of this almost pure, being contaminated only by a septic bacillus which could not be separated, and with this cultivation he uniformly obtained positive results on inoculating rabbits. Kitasato first obtained the bacillus in a pure state. Cultivations from the pus of a tetanic patient were made in an atmosphere of hydrogen, in which only anaerobic organisms could grow. By then exposing the mixed culture to a temperature of 80° C. the bacillus tetani which had already fonned spores survived, whilst the other organisms with which the cultivation was contami- nated were destroyed. Predisposing Causes.—Tetanus is in the great majority of cases Traumatic in origin, and undoubtedly the most important local cause is the prefience of a luound, by which the specific virus enters the body. From what has been said above it is clear that a wound contaminated with soil is especially liable to be infected, and thus the truth of the popular belief that tetanus is more likely to follow wounds of the hands and feet, and more especially of the ball of the thumb and of the great toe, can readily be understood. Although this may be true of the wounds common in civil life, the statistics of the American war show that wounds of the hands and feet are not more im- portant in this respect than similarly contaminated wounds in other parts of the body. Of 505 cases, 21 followed wounds of the head or neck, 55 of the trunk, 137 of the upper extremity, and 292 of the lower. Of the 137 wounds of the upper limb which were followed by tetanus, 96 were above the wrist; and of the 292 of the lower extremity, only 57 were of the foot. In the majority of cases the wound is punctured, contused or lacerated, more rarely incised. In one recorded case a man playing in a bowling-alley ran a splinter of wood under his finger nail ; he died of tetanus, and frag- ments of wood from the floor gave fatal tetanus to mice when introduced beneath the skin. In another instance a boy wounded his foot in a playground and died of tetanus ; earth from the playground produced tetanus in rabbits. The poisoned arrows of some savage tribes undoubtedly contain the virus of tetanus and cause death preceded by convulsions. Tetanus in rare cases follows the clean-cut wounds made in surgical operations; thus, it has been known to follow removal of the breast, ovariotomy, ampu- tation, ligature of the larger arteries, and the operation for hernia. The minor surgical operations also are not free from the possibility of this dangerous complication. It has been observed after the operation for fistula, in ano, the ligature of piles and varicocele, and the removal of nasal polypi. I have seen a fatal case resulting even from the establishment of an issue ; and burns are occasionally followed by tetanus. It has also been known to follow the