NECK OF FEMUR-IMPACTED INTRACAFSULAli. 613 of hypostatic congestion of the lungs he is better in bed for a fortnight or three weeks. When the fragments do not appear to be much separated, there being but Uttle shortening and indistinct crepitus, and more particuhirly if the patient be not rery aged and in other respects sound and well, an attempt may be made to procure osseous or at least close hgamentous union. Tliis is most likely to be obtained by the use of Thomas's hip-splint, with prolonged rest in bed, but should this apparatus not be procurable the long thigh-splint may be apphed in the same way as for fracture of the shaft ; or if this cannot very readily be borne, recourse should be had to the double inclined plane, with a padded belt strapped round the hips, the patient being kept in bed for at least two or three months, when a leather splint may be put on, and he may move about on crutches. During the whole of the treatment, a generous diet should be ordered, and the patient kept on a water-bed or cushion. In these fractures of the neck of the femur, the starched bandage will often be found most useful. It may be applied as in fractured thigh, but should have additional strength in the spica part. When the patient begins to move about, great comfort will be derived from the use of a well-padded leather or gutta-percha case, made in two pieces, one for the hip, the other for the thigh, united by a hinge-joint, which can be set fast in the erect posture by dropping a slot over it. When this is raised it can be flexed, so as to allow of the patient sitting in comfort. In old people, this plan of treatment is especially advantageous, as it enables them to sit up or even to walk about, and thus prevents all the ill effects of long confinement in bed. Impacted Intracapsular Fracture is a rare accident, and can scarcely be distinguished from a similar injury outside the capsule. In it the upper end of the neck is driven into the cancellous tissue of the separated head. In a case under the care of G-ay, of the Massachusetts General Hospital, which is recorded by Bigelow, the nature of the injury was proved by post-mortem examination, death having occurred from pneumonia at the end of two weeks. The following were the symptoms. The patient, aged 76, fell, striking the right trochanter. He thought he had received only a bruise, and crawled upstairs to bed unaided. Two days after, when admitted to the hospital, the right leg was found to be shortened by half an inch ; the foot was everted, and could not be inverted beyond the perpendicular ; the thigh could be flexed and extended without difficulty, but with pain ; the trochanter was less prominent than that of the other side. Before he died he could raise his foot some inches from the bed without assistance. After death the head was found to be "broken from the articular extremity of the neck, which was short and thick, the fracture behind being almost at the line of junction of the articular cartilage and the bone, while in front it ran irregularly across the neck from a quarter to half an inch below this line. The head was bent obliquely backwards and downwards towards the lesser trochanter—the tilting of the head opening the fracture on the outside of the neck—and was so firmly impacted that considerable force w^as required to withdraw it." Bigelow also records a case under the care of Gushing, of Dorchester, U.S.A., in which the exact nature of the impacted fracture was proved by examination after death, which occurred nearly.five years after the accident. The patient was seventy years of age. The fracture closely resembled that just described, and union had taken place by bone. It is