TREATMENT OF BUPTUEED MUSCLES. happen: the tendon of the rectns, the patella, or the ligameutum patella will ^•ive way. Most commonly the patella is broken across ; next the tendon gives way, and least frequently the ligament. When the tendon gives way the patient falls on the ground, is unable to raise or stand on the injured limb, and a distinct gap occasioned by the retraction of the muscle can be felt above the patella between the flesliy masses of the vasti, which are very rarely torn. The accident is usually followed by some swelling of the joint. Owing to the distance to which the upper end of the torn tendon is retracted, union may fail to take place, but even if this does occur, the attachments of the vasti remaining intact, the patient suffers but little inconvenience. The ligamentum patelloe is rarely ruptured, and in many apparent cases of this kind a more careful examination shows that a small fragment of the patella remains attached to the ligament, and that the injury is in reality a fracture of the patella. In many recorded cases the ruptured ligament fails to unite, a wide gap being left, and the utility of the Kmb is seriously im- paired. The Treatment both of rupture of the tendon and of the ligament is the same as that of fractured patella, viz. elevation of the limb, supported on a back splint in the extended position of an angle of about 135° with the body. . This must be continued for several weeks, when the patient may be allowed to get about with the joint protected by a knee-cap. In three or four cases of this accident which I have seen, somewhat troublesome stiffness of the parts has long been left. If the i-uptured ligamentum patellae fails to unite and a use- less limb is left, the two ends may be exposed by a longitudinal incision, and sutured together after having been freshened. Sands, of New York, has suc- cessfully performed this operation in a case which came under his care eight months after the accident. He used silver sutures, which were left in the wound. The ends of the ruptured ligament could be brought together only after several transverse incisions had been made subcutaneously in the quadri- ceps above the knee. An accident well known to football players as '■Hhe poop'''' is most commonly caused by a blow on the front of the thigh. There is a feeling of helplessness in the limb, which soon passes off, so that the player can resume the game. Slight lameness follows, with localized tenderness in the extensor muscles of the knee. The treatment consists in strapping the part, and recovery is soon complete. The exact nature of the injury is doubtful, but probably some muscular fibres are ruptured or a partial paralysis is produced by the blow. Slider's Sprain may occur in two situations—in the adductors, and in the internal rotators of the femur. It is more commonly met with in the adductors. It consists in a laceration of some of the muscular fibres or of the fascia covering the muscles. It is due to a violent or spasmodic contraction of these muscles when the rider is in danger of losing his seat. The pain is very great. The grip is lost, and the sufferer is unable to ride. When the internal rotators, or some of the capsular muscles of the hip-joint, are the seats of the sprain, the pain and disability are referred to the back of the trochanter. The treaiment consists in rest, and the use of a spica strap or bandage, with a pad over the injured muscle, so as to compress it and control its action. Laceration of the Rectus Abdominis Muscle may occur in the effects of childbirtli, or from blows upon the abdominal wall : a ventral hernia being