VENEREAL DISEASES. II32 may appear before the secondary signs have subsided. Thus there is no distinct hne of demarcation between secondary and tertiary syphihs. Ihe Tertiary Stage of Syphilis is characterized by the appearance of ulcers on the skin and mucous membranes, usually unsymmetrical, and having a tendency to spread widely, and to cause considerable destruction of tissue : by certain chronic degenerative changes in the blood-vessels ; by chronic fibroid induration and hyperplasia of organs and tissues, and by the develop- ment of masses of new tissue forming definite tumours prone to early degenera- tion—syphilitic gummata or sypMlomata. The ulcers on the shin begin in various ways. First, they may arise in much the same way as the secondary eruptions. A locahzed patch of the skin, a quarter of an inch or more in diameter, becomes inflamed, usually vesication takes place, the fluid in the bleb becomes rapidly purulent and then dries up, leaving a dry adherent scab which gradually increases in thickness and diameter. If this be removed, a circular ulceration of the cutis is found beneath, which may slowly spread with the formation of a fresh scab. This form of eruption, known as rupia, occurs scattered over the whole body, and in this resembles a secondary eruption. In fact, it forms an intermediate hnk between secondary and tertiary afiections. Secondly, small gummata form in the cutis vera, forming flat dusky-red or copper-coloured elevations, known as tulercular sy^jhilide, or syphilitic. tiibercles. These soften in the centre, and an ulcer forms which may spread slowly. Thirdly, a gumma may form in the subcutaneous tissue ; which softens, becomes adherent to the skin, and opens on the surface by ulceration, leaving a deep excavated cavity, with an adherent yellow slough. Lastly, in syphilitic subjects, a simple injury to the skin may lead to a spreading ulcer. This form is most common on the leg. All tertiary ulcers tend to spread slowly, often extending on one side while healing on the other. They thus are often crescentic or serpiginous in form. The clianyes observed in the smaller arteries consist of a gradual narrowing of the lumen by a growth apparently originating by proliferation of the endo- thelium. The external coat is also thickened, but in a slighter degree. These changes have been observed in the cerebral and renal arteries of medium size, and in the smaller vessels in the neighbourhood of gummata. In the larger arteries no distinctive changes are met with, but it is a well-known fact that the great majority of aneurisms of the larger vessels in young subjects occur in those who have suffered from constitutional syphilis. Overgrowth of the connective tissue is met with in the lung, liver, spleen, testicle, and other organs, and with it must be classed the diffuse hypertrophy of bone, which is not an uncommon consequence of syphilis. An organ affected in this way is tougher and harder than natural, and at first increased in bulk. If it is enclosed in a fibrous capsule, as the liver or testicle, this is thickened and opaque, sometimes uniformly, sometimes in patches. When the organ is covered with a serous membrane this also shows signs of chronic inflammation ; thus a syphilitic testicle is almost invariably surrounded by a hydrocele often divided into separate sacs by adhesions between the visceral and parietal layers of the tunica vaginalis. In a later stage the affected organ may shrink and become puckered on the surface. A section shows, in the early stage of enlargement, that the proper structure is infiltrated by a whitish or semi-