378 POISONED WOi'NDS. of rabbits with the attenuated virus from moukeys he could gradually restore and even increase its virulence ; the chief evidence of the increased virulence being the gradual shortening of the incubative period. At last by passing the poison derived directly from a dog through a series of rabbits he obtained apparently the maximum virulence, inoculation by trephining being certainly followed by rabies on the seventh day, and at this point the intensity of the poison remained constant. The symptoms in the rabbit differ somewhat from those in the dog, the most marked feature being paralysis of the hind legs, gradually extending to the fore legs before death. After death the whole length of the cord is equally virulent. That the disease thus induced is true rabies is proved by the fact that dogs inoculated with the rabbit's cord develop the typical disease either of the dumb or the furious variety. The virus of constant strength having been thus obtained, the next point is to attenuate it so that it can be inoculated without a fatal result. The means of so doing was found in simply drying the cord. If the cord, removed with all practicable antiseptic precautions, be suspended in a glass-jar, at the bottom of which some caustic potash is placed to dry the air, its virulence gradually disappears until at the end of from 10 to 14 days it is completely lost. Pasteur inoculated dogs with this attenuated virus in the following way :— Every day a portion of cord rubbed down in sterilized broth was injected beneath the skin, commencing with some that had been dried long enough to have lost its virulence, a more virulent material being used each day till at last the fresh cord was reached. It was found that this could be done without disturbing the health of the dog, and at the end of the process the animal presented a perfect resistance to the most intense virus, nor could rabies be given to it by the bite of a rabid animal. That Pasteur and others have thus conferred upon dogs a perfect immunity to the viras of rabies cannot be doubted, but how it is done is quite uncertain. Pasteur asserts that the poison, whatever it may be, is destroyed by drying, and that it is not a true attenuation but rather a diminution in quantity that takes place as the cord dries. Although no organism has yet been found, Pasteur suggests that one may be present which produces in its growth a chemical substance hostile to its own development, a condition met with in numerous organised ferments. In the dried cord the Hving organism perishes gradually while the chemical antidote undergoes no change. This is, of course, merely a hypothesis. On July Gth, 1885, Pasteur first applied his method to the human subject. The patient, Joseph Meister, aged 14, had been severely bitten in fourteen .places by a mad dog. The boy suffered no evil effects irom the treatment, and is still alive and well (1893). Since that time thousands have flocked to Pasteur's laboratory from all parts of Europe, and some even from America, and institutions have been founded in Budapest, Odessa, Turin, etc., w'here the treatment is carried out. The treatment has been modified in some points, but the following may be taken as an example of the way in which it is carried out. The cord is pounded up with a glass rod in a quantity of sterilised veal broth equal to four times its bulk before it was dried, and of this mixture one, two, or three cubic centimetres are used in each inoculation. The injections are made under the skin of the abdomen once or twice a day. The following numbers indicate the days of drying to which the cord has been submitted at each injection :— First day, 14, 18 ; second day, 12, 11 ; third day, 10, 9 : fourth day, 8, 7;