725 FRACTURE OF BASE OF SKULL. very commonly fatal form of fracture of the skull, is that which extends through its Mse. It may occur in three ways. 1. It is usually caused by direct violence, as by a fall or a blow upon the vertex or side of the head, producing- a fracture which extends from the point struck across to the base of the skull (p. 722). 2. It may possibly take place as the result of rontrecoup, the blow being received on the forehead, back, or side of the head, and the jar of the bones expending its greatest violence on and fracturing the base of the skull ; although as before stated (p. 722), there is but httle evidence of this form of fracture ; and 3, by the impact of the spine against the condyles of the occipital bone causing a fracture that radiates from the foramen magnum. This kind of fracture of the bone is well illustrated by the annexed cuts (Figs. 291, 292), taken from patients of mine who fell from a height on the head. The effects will vary according to the character of the Fig. 201.—Siiliiitering of edges of the Fora- Fig. 29'2.—Fracture of Base by FaU on Vertex, men Magnum and Radiating Fracture of Both Condyles broken oil and driven in. Base of Skull from Fall on Vertex. Vertex was flssuretl. surface on which the person falls. If hard, as on stone, the vertex will be smashed in, and if there be fracture of the base, it will be occasioned in the first way. If the head strikes soft ground, the body will be violently projected against the base of the skull, and the third variety of fracture may be occasioned by the force of the impact. One great danger in fracture of the base arises from the concomitant lujury to the brain, either by direct laceration or by the extravasation of blood on its under surface. The important nervous centres that lie directly upon the parts of the skull that are broken are specially liable to injury, and free hajmorrhage often takes place from a torn sinus or a ruptured cerebral artery. Another danger of equal importance is septic meningitis, which is a cause of death in a considerable number of these cases. Its occurrence is explained by the fact that a very large proportion of all fractures of the base of the skull are compound. All cases which implicate the tympanum with rupture of the membrana tympani, all those which fracture the basilar process and tear the mucous membrane at the upper part of the