INJURIES OF HONES AND JOINTS. If then it be determined to save the joint, three objects must be kept steadily in view : first, the synoriaJ cavUy must he iliorovghly drained; secondly, ihe joint must be lept perfectly at rest, and firmly fi-red; and thirdly, the discharges must be prevented from decomposing hi/ some efficient- system of antisejjtic treatment. To drain a joint perfectly, as before stated, is not always easy, but every articulation can, without difficulty, be sufficiently drained to prevent the development of tension in its cavity. If an efficient system of antiseptic treatment can be carried out, minor imperfections of drainage are, however, of less consequence. The Antiseptic Treatment of a wounded joint is carried out on exactly the same principles as that of any other wound. The wound must, if necessary, be enlarged ; the cavity of the joint is then well syringed out with carbolic acid solution in water (] to 20), ])erchloride of mercury (1 in 1000), or some other efficient antiseptic fluid. This is best done by means of a stiffish piece of india-rubber tubing long enough to reach to any part of the joint, fixed on the end of a syringe. The joint may be carefully moved at the same time, so that the lotion may find its way to every part of the articulation. The fluid is then squeezed out of the joint, and efficient drainage provided. This may be done by the use of drainage-tubes, or in many cases these may advantage- ously be dispensed with and the wound left freely open. If the case be one of a large lacerated wound, with dirt ground into it, it must be carefufly cleaned with a sponge. If the wound is in such a situation that it is not likely to drain well, a counter-opening may be made on a probe at the most dependent part, into which another tube may be passed. The antiseptic dressing is then applied and the limb fixed on a splint or by some rigid apparatus in such a way that the slightest movement is impossible. If drainage-tubes have been used they can usually be removed at about the end of the first week, but this will depend upon the amount of discharge. Great care must be taken not to move the joint at the dressings. One of the forms of absorbent antiseptic dressing, such as subhmate wood- wool, salicylic silk, salicylic or iodoforin avooI, &c., will be found most convenient in the treatment of wounded joints. The elastic pressure facilitates drainage and limits exudation, Avhile at the same time it aids hi maintaining rest. These may be applied as lasting dressings and left undis- turbed, unless elevation of temperature, severe pain, or the appearance of discharge shows that all is not going on well. If drainage-tubes have been inserted, the dressing must be changed on the sixth or seventh day to remove them. After the first dressing, if all is going on Avell, the limb may be fixed in a plaster of Paris bandage, applied over the antiseptic dressing. If there is no elevation of temperature, and no pain, this may be left on till the wound is healed. Should antiseptics not be available, the following treatment should be adopted. If the joint be opened by a puncture or small clean cut wound, this may occasionally be closed by bringing the edges together, and placing a piece of lint soaked in collodion upon it, or a strip of plaster washed over with resin varnish. The limb must then be placed in a splint (plaster ot Paris is the best), so as to be rendered absolutely immovable, and the joint should be surrounded by india-rubber bags containing pounded ice, or kept cold by the application of Leiter's tubes (p. 211). In fact, the best chance of avoiding further mischief lies in the exclusion of air, perfect rest,