TREATMENT OF CUT THROAT. 829 cause of death in patients who survive the immediate effects of the wound. This is due in many cases partly to the direct admission of cold air, without its being warmed by passing through the nasal cavities, but much more often it results from the inhalation of the septic discharges from the wound. At the posi-mortem examination of these cases the bronchi are found intensely injected ; the hmgs are as a rule swollen and oedematous throughout, and here and there patches of consolidation will be felt. On cutting into these they will be breaking down and softening in the centre, sometimes forming cavities almost like abscesses. They differ, however, from the secondary abscesses of pyaemia in being scattered through the lung and not specially on the surface : and if a patch be found in an early stage, it will be seen that there is no hfemorrhagic infarct preceding the softening, but that the air- vesicles are distended with opaque puriform secretion, and that the cavities are formed by the coalescence of the distended air-vesicles through destruction of their walls. The pathology of the process seems to be that septic matter from the wound is inhaled and lodges in the smaller bronchi where it sets up acute purulent catarrh with decomposition of the secretions. The decomposing secretions excite inflammation terminating in gangrene of the surrounding tissue of the lung. In some cases extensive areas of the lung may thus become gangrenous. The dep-esscd mental condition of the patient also is usually unfavourable to recovery when the wound is suicidal. Treatment.—The same general principles apply as in the management of those wounds of the throat that do not open up the mucous canals in this region. Hgemorrhage must be arrested by ligature of all the bleeding vessels, whether arteries or veins, so that no oozing or trickling into the wound may take place. In some cases the hsemorrhage consists principally of general venous oozing which cannot be stopped by ligature, the patient drawing a large quantity of blood into the air-passage through the wound. In these circumstances I have found it useful to introduce a large silver tube into the aperture in the windpipe, and to plug the wound around it. As soon as the bleeding has fairly ceased, the plugs and the tube must be removed. It has long been a recognized rule not to close wounds of the throat of this category with sutures, except, perhaps, at the angles. In this way the risks of an accumulation of coagula in the wound, and more especially the burrowino- of septic matter between the deep cervical fascia, are effectually prevented. With improved methods of the treatment of wounds this rule cannot now be considered an absolute one. Morris, Pollard, and others have recorded cases which show that with efficient antiseptic precautions even an extensive wound of the throat may be accurately closed with sutures, and thus primary union obtained. The wound in the air-tube must first be carefully united with fine silk sutures, and it may be advisable to bring together the divided muscles and fascia with buried sutures before finally closing the skin wound Provision for drainage will usually be required. This mode of treatment is" however, justified only when the Surgeon is able to carry out all the details of the antiseptic method ; under other circumstances, the rule of leavino- the wound widely open should be followed. If the trachea has been completelv cut across it is always advisable to insert a stitch in each side of the tube in order to prevent the wide separation of the two portions that would otherwise take place, owing to the great mobility of the larynx and upper end of the