POISONED WOUNDS. 372 to have no such habit, snaps indiscriminately at the first dog it meets in the yard or in the street, it is probably not safe. " So far I have had in mind chiefly what is to be observed in dogs tied up or at home. A dog which is at large is also to be recognized as in a dangerous state by its demeanour. A healthy dog in its progress along a street or else- where, shows at every step that its attention is awake to the sights and sounds which it encounters. The rabid dog, on the contrary, goes sullenly and un- observantly forwards, and is not diverted by objects obviously likely to attract it. This statement, however, is subject to the important exception already referred to, that it is excited both by the sight and sound of an animal of its own species. " Of the symptoms which accompany the final stage of the disease, the most important and characteristic are those which relate to the organs in which it localizes itself—the mouth and throat. Attention is often drawn to the con- dition of the mouth in an animal supposed to be healthy, by the observation that it tries to scratch the corners of its mouth, as if attempting to get rid of the ropy mucus which is seen to be discharged from it. In dogs that are tied up, it is noticeable that the bark has entirely lost its ring, and acquires a peculiar hoarseness, which can be recognized even by the most unobservant. As the disease progresses the discharge increases, the lower jaw hangs as if paralysed, and the animal has evident difficulty in swallowing. Along with this there is often loss of power in the hind hmbs. If now the dog be watched, the peculiarities of behaviour which have been already noticed are seen to present themselves in a much more marked degree than before. It is observed, first, that it is subject to paroxysms of excitement, in which it makes often- repeated efforts to bite or gnaw all objects (such as woodwork, straw, &c.) within its reach, while at the same time it continues to exhibit the tendency already mentioned to devour its own excrement ; and, secondly, even during the remissions, its excitement is at once renewed by the sight or sound of another dog. " It may be well to note that the disease occurs at all seasons, that the mad dog continues to recognize its master, and to manifest pleasure when kindly spoken to, that it does not shun water, and that in many cases from first to last that wild fury which is commonly supposed to belong to the disease, is conspicuously absent." Rabies in Man.—In man, rabies occurs either from the bite of a dog known to be rabid, or from a raw surface, as a crack in the lip, being licked by an animal affected with rabies, but in whom the characteristic symptoms have not developed themselves. The bite of a rabid animal is by no means certain to occasion rabies. The proportion of those bitten by rabid dogs that develop the disease has been variously estimated. Hunter and Yaughan (Halford) put it at only 3 to 5 per cent., while Leblanc, from statistics col- lected in Paris, makes it IG per cent. Euffer, from the consideration of a large number of statistics, assumes the proportion to be 15 per cent. The bite of a rabid wolf is far more dangerous, no fewer than 67 per cent, of those bitten dying of the disease. The bite of a cat also is more dangerous than that of a dog. The fact is that the dog usually bites at the legs, and thus when he inflicts a wound, it is through clothing, by which his teeth are wiped and the saliva arrested, and thus the wound escapes inoculation. AVolves and cats, on the other hand, always fly at naked parts of the body, as the face or