LOCAL TREATMENT OF ACUTE INFLAMMATION. 215 Warmth and moisture, conjoined, are of the utmost service in the treat- ment of inflammation during the height of that process—during that period >vhen cold appHcations are not admissible. By these means the vessels are dilated to the fullest extent and the tendency to stasis diminished. Ihe warmth tends also to hasten the return of vitality in the damaged area, if that be possible, and is, therefore, especially valuable in all cases in which there is a tendency to sloughing. The exudation from the distended vessels is increased, and it is believed that this tends to carry the migrated corpuscles out of the inflamed part into the lymphatics in those cases in which the irritant causing the inflammation is not of sufficient intensity to give rise to suppuration. It may also, by stimulating the activity of the migrated leucocytes, aid them in resisting the invasion of micro-organisms. Should suppuration be inevitable, warmth hastens the process by increasmg the exudation and migration. Warmth and moisture, by causing relaxation of the parts, diminish tension and thus relieve pain. When abscess threatens, and the skin is not broken, nothing affords so much relief as a well-made linseed-meal poultice. To make this smooth and soft, the meal must be gradually added to the proper amount of boiUng water, being vigorously stirred at the same time. If the water be added to the meal, the mas*s is apt to become lumpy. It must be spread, not too thickly, on a piece of linen-rag, and apphed as hot as the patient can bear it. It is better to use meal from which the oil has not been expressed, or to add to the ordinary linseed meal a small quantity of olive oil, which prevents its drying and sticking to the skin. But, useful as poultices are when the skin is unbroken, they are most objectionable when applied to a wound, ulcer, or granulating surface. Then they merely encourage putrefaction. In such cases wet dressing, consisting of a double or triple layer of common, or better boric, lint, moistened with a hot solution of boric acid, may be . applied and covered with oiled silk extending half an inch to an inch beyond it on all sides. This may be covered with a thick layer of cotton- wool secured by a bandage. By these means we obtain an application which is cleaner and lighter than a poultice, and which retains its heat equally long. Another excellent substitute for a poultice is a sheet of salicylic wool (4 per cent.) about one inch thick, moistened with boiling water and covered with oiled silk and dry cotton-wool. This is also a most efficient antiseptic application. Fomentations of warm water, or of decoction of poppy and camomile flowers, applied by means of flannels wrung out of these liquids, and apphed hot, are very useful in extensive superficial inflammations. The flannels should be well covered with oiled silk or rubber cloth, so as to retain the heat and to prevent evaporation. Spongio-piline may be used as a substitute for flannel in cases in which the surface is unbroken. Dry cotton-wool heated before a fire, applied warm, and covered with a large sheet of oiled silk, may sometimes be conveniently substituted for a fomentation. The watery vapour given off from the skin being enclosed by the oiled silk forms a sort of warm vapour bath for the affected part. Dry heat in the form of flannels, or bags of bran toasted before the fire, or heated in an oven, are often convenient applications, especially for the head or abdomen. Belladonna, applied externally, sometimes exercises a very distinct influence over superficial inflammations of an acute and spreading character. It is