AMPUTATIONS. 8o limited to those cases iu which the bleeding occurs more tlian twenty-four hours after the operation. Sloughing of the stump from amputating through in jured or diseased tissues is an occasional cause of death. Septic Biseasps.—This term is here used to include all those general or local affections which arise from putrefaction of the discharges of the wound, or from its infection witli those specific diseases Avhich are so commonly de- veloped when decomposition of the discharges is not prevented, and too many patients suffering from open wounds are crowded together in too con- fined a space. The chief varieties are :—(a) Pymnia, a general process in which a pyogenic virus (that is to say, a substance capable of setting up suppuration in any part in which it may lodge), derived from a local centre of suppuration, is disseminated through the body by the blood stream. It is characterised by the formation of secondary abscesses in the viscera, joints, and other parts of the body, accompanied by high fever. {V) Septic infection, which is the infection of the whole system by a virus derived from an unhealthy or foul wound. The virus multiplies in the blood and causes death without giving rise to secondary abscesses, (c) Septic poisoning or Saprcemia, due to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction from a foul wound. The term "septicaemia" is used by many writers to include both septic infection and poisoning, (d) Traumatic Fever, which is a milder form of septic poisoning, {e) Hospital Gangrene, an acute spreading inflammation, terminating rapidly in gangrene of the affected part. (/) Erysipelas, an infective inflammation of a specific nature, spreading widely from the wound and accompanied by grave constitutional disturbance. {g) Tetanus, an infective disease in which a poison is generated locally in the wound, which, being absorbed, gives rise to fatal convulsions. All these diseases are to be attributed directly to foul wounds and overcrowding. The Congestive pneumonia often mentioned as a cause of death after ampu- tations, is most probably always merely an effect of septicaemia, pyaemia, or septic poisoning. Lastly, one of the commonest causes of death in Hospital reports h Exhaus- tion. This term is used with excessive looseness. Some Surgeons seem even to employ it occasionally as synonymous with shock or collapse. In the majority of cases, however, it really means that the patient is gradually worn out by the profuse discharge from a suppurating wound, combined with chronic poisoning by the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction. In others it means that the patient died from the effects of severe traumatic fever, of septic origin, commencing on the second day, before he had fully re- covered from the shock of the operation. " Exhaustion " doubtless covers, there- fore, many conditions which should fairly be included amongst septic diseases. These causes of death may be divided into the preventible and the unpre- ventible, and theoretically it may be said that shock is the only one that is genuinely unpreventible. All the septic diseases may be prevented by thoroughly aseptic treatment of the wound, and by proper attention to hygiene. Practically, however, it is not always possible to avoid the "pre- ventible" diseases. The state of the patient's health, the presence of septic complications, bad hygienic surroundings, or the absence of the necessary means for carrying out antiseptic treatment or avoiding overcrowding, may put it beyond the Surgeon's power to save his patient from causes of death which under more favourable circumstances are easily prevented.