ACQUIRED SYPHILIS: SECONDARY STAGE. 1131 l^his is the result of a coagulable inflammatory exudation into the papilla3 of the skin. It forms a hard, red, elevated patch, usually of small size and covered by a bran-like desquamation of the epithelium. It merges insensibly into the squamous syphilide, or, if in a moist part, into the mucous tubercle^ If the process be more acute, the serum from the exudation raises the cuticle and a vesicle is formed. Vesicular syphUide is a rare form of eruption. Should it be still more acute, migrating corpuscles penetrate the Malpighian layer of the epithelium, and mixing with the serum in the vesicle, convert it into a pustule, and there is then developed the pustular syphihdo. When the pustules occur in the early stages of syphilis, they dry up and form scabs, beneath which no ulceration takes place, and no scars are left when they are healed. On mucous membranes, from the thinness and softness of the epithelium, the superficial layer is very ea.rly cast off*, and there is thus formed the small superficial ulcer commonly met with on the tongue and hp. All the early syphilitic eruptions are merely modifications of one pathological process, differing in degree but not in nature. They occur in all parts of the body, and often in situations which are not aff'ected by simple eruptions ot the same character ; thus, for instance, the squamous syphilide is common on the palms of the hands, the soles of the feet, and the flexure of joints. They present also the great peculiarity of causing little or no itching or irritation. More than one form of eruption may be present at the same time, and in this again they differ from simple skin diseases. With the skin eruptions there is, in the majority of cases, some affection of the throat. With the roseola of the skin there is usually some redness and dryness of the fauces, as if a similar eruption was taking place there also. Later on ulceration of the tonsils very commonly takes place. The ulcers are, as a rule, symmetrical: they have sharply-cut edges and a grey floor, and the mucous membrane round is reddened. They cause singularly little pain in most cases, and have no tendency in this stage of the disease to extend far beyond the surface of the tonsil, or to cause extensive destruction of the pillars of the fauces or soft palate. The remaining symptoms belonging to the secondary stage of the disease are, loss of hair, pains in the hones, periostitis Avithout any tendency to terminate in suppuration, and inflammation of the iris. The most common of the foregoing symptoms is roseola followed by papular and squamous syphilide, with ulceration of the throat ; mucous tubercles, loss of hair, and periostitis are common but by no means constant; iritis is, fortunately, met with only in a small percentage of cases. During the time the eruptions are making their appearance chronic enlarge- ment, with induration, of the lymphatic glands throughout the body, is not uncommon. The patient is usually anasmic and thin, but not necessarily so. The secondary stage may end in two months or extend over a year. Not uncommonly after complete disappearance of all symptoms and an interval of some months of apparent health, a relapse takes place, indicated by a return of some of the secondary eruptions. When the secondary stage has come to an end the patient may never suffer again from any signs of the disease, or he may pass on directly to the development of those symptoms which are classed as tertiary. In many cases an interval of months or years intervenes between the secondary and the tertiary stages, during which occasional relapses of the secondary symptoms may occur. In other cases, again, the tertiary aff'ections