989 TETANUS. ^vine, with apparent benefit. If the depression be very great, carbonate of ammonia in five or even ten grain doses maybe given ; such fluid nourishment as the patient will take, with a liberal allowance of alcohol, wine or porter, being also administered. In addition to this medicinal treatment, hygienic measures must be put in force. The patient should throughout be placed in an airy and well-ventilated apartment, and all hygienic rules carefully attended to. As abscesses form, they must be freely opened. This should be done with antiseptic precautions, as the pus in the secondary abscesses is not in a state of putrefaction, and the patient's condition will be greatly aggravated if it be allowed to decompose. In cases arising as the consequence of septic osteo- myelitis following amputations or compound fractures, removal of the limb at the next joint above the affected bone has been recommended and successfully practised by Joseph Fayrer, even after one or more well marked rigors. If convalescence take place, the patient will recover slowly. The rigors and sweats will gradually become less frequent ; the appetite will improve ; the (jountenance will lose its anxious expression, and the skin its unhealthy hue. But strength returns slowly. The disease may assume a relapsing character, (ireat caution, therefore, is necessary before a patient can be pronounced safe. Even after recovery he will continue pale and wasted ; energy is lost ; nutrition is impaired ; and at a more remote period some low form of disease, as phthisis or albuminuria, may prove fatal. These evils are best prevented by a course of sulphurous mineral water, followed by a long sea-voyage. TETANUS. Tetanus is an infective disease due to the presence of a specific virus in the body. It is characterized by painful and continued spasms of the voluntary muscles, alternating with incomplete relaxation, and it usually terminates fatally. Causes of Tetanus.-—The causes of tetanus a,re : first, the essential cause, the virus or contagium ; and secondly, the predisposing causes, including such local and general conditions as predispose the patient to receive the virus. The Essential Cause of tetanus is a small rod-shaped organism—the Bacillus tetani. This is rather longer than the bacillus of mouse septicaemia ; spore formation takes place at one extremity of the rod and thus the organism assumes a characteristic " drum-stick" shape. The bacillus is anaerobic and its spores are very resistant to high temperatures. The first evidence of the infective nature of tetanus was obtained in 1884 by Carle and Rattone from a patient who died of that disease originating from a suppurating acne pustule. They removed the inflamed area immediately after death, and having squeezed the fluid from it and diluted it with sterilized water injected the emulsion so prepared beneath the skin in twelve rabbits. Eleven of these died of undoubted tetanus. The blood of the dead animals failed to induce the disease when injected into others, but pieces of the sciatic nerve, into the sheath of which the emulsion had been introduced in four instances, were found, when crushed up in water and in- jected, to give rise to tetanus. In the same year Nicolaier, while making observations on the bacilli of earth, accidentally found that in a considerable