SPECIAL FRACTURES. 594 flexion of the hand and fingers, due to the unopposed action of the long flexors, a splint ^nth a handpiece admitting of uuward movement may be employed to raise the hand and extend the fingers forcibly (Fig. 192). In a case of pressure on the musculo-spiral nerve by one of the fragments or by the callus, Oilier of Lyons removed a portion of the callus with a chisel and mallet, so as to expose the nerve, and also excised a portion of bone (apparently of the lower fragment), which was strangulating the nerve. At the end of six and a half months, the patient had regained considerable power of extending his wrist. Many cases of the same kind have since been recorded. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Elbow-Joint are neces- sarily serious accidents. They are commonly occasioned by falls on the point of the olecranon, which is the process of bone most frequently and extensively fractured. In some cases the olecranon escapes injury, whilst the lower epiphysis of the humerus is splintered into many pieces; and more commonly, perhaps, both bones, the ulna as well as the humerus, are injured. As the integuments over the point of the elbow are thick and hard," very extensive comminution of the bones may occur with very little apparent injury of the soft parts. When these fractures are the result of gunshot injury, the soft parts may be extensively torn, and the bones greatly shattered. In the cases that occur in civil practice, I have seldom seen much laceration of the soft parts. The Treatment of these accidents must depend on the amount of injury done both to bones and soft parts. If the articulation be simply opened with little laceration of the surrounding soft parts, and no comminution of the fractured bone, the limb should be saved. If the bones be much shattered, the soft parts not being seriously implicated, removal of the splinters, or resection of the injured joint, will enable the Surgeon to save the rest of the limb ; but if the soft parts be extensively contused and torn, the bones at the same time being comminuted, amputation of the arm may be required. If an attempt be made to save the joint without operation, great attention must be paid to drainage, rest, and prevention of decomposition. If the cavity become filled with septic matter, not only will there be severe septic fever, but abscesses will form in front of and around the joint, the splintered fragments will necrose, and excision, or possibly amputation of the limb, will be necessary in a few weeks. These cases, however, as a rule, do very well when treated antiseptically. Perfect rest may in these cases be obtained by the plan recommended by H. 0. Thomas of slinging the hand up over the upper part of the chest by a bandage secured by a clove hitch to the wrist, and tied round the neck. If tbe comminution be such as to render removal of the splintered fragments, necessary, or if it be evident that recovery can take place only with a stifi" elbow-joint, resection should be performed. In these cases the question may arise whether partial or complete removal of the articulation should be practised. This will depend in great measure upon circumstances. If the comminution be such as to require the removal of a considerable length of the humerus, it is better, if possible, to leave the bones of the forearm untouched, otherwise a flail-like arm is certain to result. If but little length of bone has to be removed, there is some danger of a stiflP elbow resulting unless the whole cartilage-covered surfaces of the bones are removed. In cases in which a secondary excision becomes necessary after an attempt to save the joint has