EXTRAVASATION OF INTESTINAL CONTENTS. 879 occur in woands of the abdomen, and gives rise to the most intense peritonitis. It is not, however, an invariable sequence of penetrating wounds of the intes- tine, especially if the wound be made by a sharp instrument ; and even in bullet wounds of the gut no faecal extravasation may take place. This was well illustrated in a case in University College Hospital of a man who was shot through the abdomen. The intestines, which contained much fecu- lent matter, were traversed by the bullet in four places. He lived twenty- four hours, and yet no feculent extravasation took place. In another case to which I was called, that of a young gentleman who had been accidentally shot through the abdomen with the ramrod of a horse-pistol, the descending colon was cut completely across, and the small intestines perforated in two places : and yet no extravasation took place, though he survived the accident two days. Otis, however, points out in the Report of the American "War, that these cases are entirely exceptional, and that in the vast majority of gun-shot wounds of the intestine, faecal extravasation does take place, and gives rise to fatal peritonitis. That certain cases escape this danger may be due to several causes. In the first place, if the wound in the gut be under a certain size, there is a natural tendency to its occlusion by eversion of the mucous mem- brane. In other cases again, as in the duodenum or colon, the gut may be wounded at a part that is not covered by peritoneum. Besides this, it must be borne in mind that, though in ordinary language we speak of the "cavity" of the abdomen, there is in reality no such thing; there being no empty space within the peritoneal sac, but the whole of the visceral coiitents of the abdo- men being so closely and equably brought into contact by the pressure of the abdominal muscles and of the diaphragm, that it requires some force for the intestinal contents to overcome this uniform support, and to insinuate them- selves between the coils of contiguous portions of intestine. The influence exercised by the continuous pressure of the abdominal walls upon the intestinal contents is well shown by the greater facihty with which these escape from a portion of wounded intestine that has been protruded than from one that is still lying within the abdomen. In the former case, fteces will escape from a much smaller aperture than in the latter. The close and uniform contact of the coils of intestine with each other also favours the adhesion of the wounded coil to the neighbouring parts, and thus tends either completely to prevent or to limit fsecal extravasation. In some cases also it is probable that the shock of the injury arrests for the time the peristaltic movements of the gut, and in these circumstances adhesions sufficiently firm to prevent fascal extravasation may form within twenty-four hours. Thus, in a case under my care the patient, a young man, aged 22, cut his throat, and stabbed himself twice in the abdomen with a dinner-knife. One of the wounds divided more than a third of the circumference of the jejunum. The patient survived thirty-six hours, and at the post-mortem examination the wounded coil was found to contain blood and liquid contents, but it was adherent by firm inflammatory exudation to the neighboui'ing coils of intestine, and no extravasation had taken place. The patient more frequently escapes without extravasation when the great gut is wounded than when the small intestine is perforated. When the contents of the intestine escape into the peritoneum diffuse peritonitis almost invariably results, the fseces becoming mixed with the abun- dant inflammatory effusion. In rare cases, however, extravasations, whether of faeces or blood, if in small amount, may show but little tendency to diffuse