COMPRESSION OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 51 10.—Compression of Subclavian witli key, and Digital Compression of the Bracliial. the key is wrapped round with a strip of lint, so as to prevent it from injuring the patient; the other end is also well padded to protect the Surgeon's hand. The padded ring is then pressed forcibly down upon the artery in the situation before described (Fig. 1(5). In cases in which the clavicle is pushed up by an aneurismal tumour, Syme recommended that an incision should be made above the clavicle throuo-h the skin and deep fascia, so that the fingers of the 'assistant might bear almost directly upon the vessel, which would thus be more securely compressed. The brachial artery is best compressed by grasping the limb opposite the middle of the arm, so that the tips of the fingers are placed immediately internal to the edge of the biceps, and thus press the artery against the bone while the thumb rests against the humerus on the opposite side (Fig. 16). The radial and ulnar arteries frequently require compression while the Surgeon is searching for a wounded vessel in the palm of the hand ; and the assistant must, under these circumstances, steady the hand as well as compress the vessels. He will best do this by grasping the lower part of the forearm firmly with both hands, his fingers being at the dorsal aspect, and his thumbs pressed upon the arteries immediately above the wrist ; on the radial, at the point at which it is commonly felt as the pulse, and on the ulnar, at the outer border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris (Fig. 17). Compression of the abdominal aorta is required in some cases of amputation at the hip-joint or high up in the thigh, and in operations for aneurism of the iliac arteries, or the branches of the internal iliac in the buttock. The point at which it is most conveniently compressed is imme- diately above its bifurcation. The bifurcation of the aorta takes place on the body of the fourth lumbar vertebra, a little to the left of the middle line ; superficially this corresponds to a point a little below and to the left of the um- bihcus, and on a level with the highest part of the ihac crest. In compressing the aorta, therefore, the pressure should be applied a little above and to the left of the umbilicus. In children, and very thin subjects, the aorta can readily be compressed with the hand in this situation, but the force required is so great that it is impossible for it to be maintained for any length of time. In the absence of any other instrument, Esmarch recommends the following plan A common roller bandage about two and a half inches wide and eight yards long is to be rolled round a stick about the thickness of the E 2 Fig. 17.—Compression of the Radial and Ulnar Arteries.