HYGIENIC CONDITIONS. II history can be accurately studied. It has been found that under certain con- ditions minute spores are developed in the bacihus, and that when this has taken plnce blood containing the virus may be dried and kept in that state for years without losing its virulence. In this state it is easily conceivable that it could be disseminated by the air. It is well known that the virus of vaccinia, small-pox, and scarlet fever equally resist the efiects of drying. Another fact of equal importance, which was first discovered by Pasteur and Toussaitit, is that the virus of splenic fever and that of a peculiar form of septicaemia, common in fowls, known as chicken cholera, lose considerably in virulence if the organisms which form their essential part are cultivated under conditions which are not favourable to their growth. The converse, although equally well proved, is probably true also,—that a virus of low intensity increases in virulence if cultivated in a medium suited to its growth and development. 8uch a medium for the growth of pathogenic organisms is found in the feeble tissues and unhealthy sores of patients weakened by breathing the impure atmosphere of an over-crowded ward, and it is thus that infective processes of intense virulence may be developed. Our knowledge of the conditions under which the virus is developed in hospital gangrene and pytemia, is still very far from perfect ; but this much is certain, chaL they are essentially filth-diseases, and may, if the term be allowable, be manufactured in any hospital or house, however clean or Avell situated, by the accumulation within it of too large a number of patients suffering from wounds the discharges of which are in a state of decomposition. It is probable that the contagia of some of these diseases are destroyed by oxidation, especially if at the same time they are exposed to bright sunlight ; but, be this as it may, it is evident that a w-ant of free ventilation must lead to a concentration of such poisons as arc disseminated by the air, and at the same time the jDatient's body will be rendered more susceptible to their influence as its vitality becomes lowered. In the prevention of the eS'ects of o\ er-crowding we have to consider first the vitiation of the air by the natural processes of respiration and excretion ; and, secondly, fouling of the atmosphere by the emanations from wounds and sores. The first of these causes of impurity is unavoidable, and it is only by providing sufficient air for each patient and changing it with sufficient frequency that its evil efiects can be prevented. In dcterniining the condition of the air of a room or \vard the carbonic acid present is taken as the index of the degree of impurity, as it is easily estimated, while the determination of the organic matter is almost impossible. Parkes and De Chaumont give "6 per 1000 volumes of total carbonic acid in the air as the limit of impurity allowable. Of this about "> is deri^-ed from respiration ar.d the remainder is the normal quantity present in the atmospnere. In order to maintain the air at this standard an ordinary man requires to be supplied with aooo cubic feet per hour. This is the minimum quantity of air that will suffice for the purpose, and it would evidently be unwise to trust to this. The rule, therefore, laid down is that at least 4000 cubic feet per hour must be provided. In order that this amount of air may be obtained without exposing the patient to draughts, a sufficient cubic space must be allowed for each patient, so that if the air be changed from three to four times per hour the requisite amount may be supplied. Under exceptional circumstances 1000 cubic feet per head might thus, with good ventilation, be made sufficient ; but