SPECIAL FRACTURES. 586 detached along with it. Mobility of the coracoid would, therefore, be a valuable sign of this rare fracture. The Treatment of such an injury, if it were recognised, would consist in keeping the whole arm well raised and fixed to the chest, with a pad in the axilla. Fractures of the Humerus.—In studying the fractures of the humerus, we must divide that bone into three parts—the Upper Articular End, the Shaft, and the Lower Articular End. 1. Fractures of the Upper Articular End of the Humerus not unfrequently occur, constituting an important class of injuries which have been carefully studied by Astley Cooper, and more recently by R. W. Smith. Five kinds of fracture of the humerus are met with in the immediate vicinity of the shoulder-joint: Fractures of the Anatomical Neck, Simple and Im- pacted ; Fractures of the Surgical Neck—Simple and Impacted ; and Separa- tion of the Great Tuberosity. Fracture of the Anatomical Neck of the Humerus.—The head of the bone is detached from the shaft, a little above or at the line of insertion of the capsule, and thus the fracture may or may not be purely intracapsular. This fracture is occasioned by severe falls or blows on the shoulder. K fall on the hand or elbow may dislocate the humerus, or fracture its shaft, but it cannot break its upper articular end. This injury is very rare, and the signs of it are by no means distinct, though much light has been thrown upon them by the labours of R. W. Smith. There is loss of motion in the shoulder, with some swelling and considerable pain, together with slight deformity ; an irregularity, produced by the upper end of the lower fragment, can be felt towards the inner side of the joint ; crepitus is easily produced ; and there is, on measurement from the acromion to the olecranon, shortening to the extent of about one-third of an inch. When this fracture is imjMcted, the upper fragment penetrates the lower one. In consequence of this, the axis of the humerus is directed somewhat inwards towards the coracoid process ; here also some irregular osseous sweUing may be detected. The head of the bone can be felt in the glenoid cavity, but is not in the axis of the limb, the elbow projecting slightly from the side, while there is at the same time a holloAv some little distance under the acromion. There is consequently more deformity about the joint in the impacted than in the simple intracapsular fracture, with the same impairment of motion, but crepitus is wanting, or a slight grating may be felt, on firmly grasping the shoulder and rotating the elbow. In fracture of the anatomical neck of the humerus the portion of bone broken olf may be completely loose, like a foreign body in the joint. Under these circumstances, theoretically, it might necrose and give rise to destruction of the articulation, but there is no recorded case of such a complication. In most cases, so far as the evidence of museum specimens goes, the injury is not accurately intracapsular, the line of fracture passing outside the capsule towards the greater tuberosity, the fragment being then attached to the capsule at its upper part. In other cases it is impacted, and new vessels penetrate it from the lower fragment. A case recorded by Boyer shows that when loose it may be gradually absorbed, and there is also evidence that if perfect rest be maintained, the loose fragment may form new adhesions. But even if it remains free there is no reason why it should cause inflammation and suppuration any more than a loose piece of cartilage chipped off the femur