EXCISION OF TU2I0URS. expose its sides and base ; as these are approached, and the Surgeon reaches the neighbourhood of its more important and deeper connections, increased care will be necessary, as it not unfrequently happens that the tumour is in closer relations with deep-seated blood-vessels and nerves of a large size than would at first appear. When practicable, the deep dissection will best be commenced and carried out from that part of the base of the tumour into which the principal blood- vessels appear to enter ; they are thus early cut, and being once ligatured, or seized in catch-forceps, give no further trouble, which they would do were they divided from the direction of their branches towards the trunk, when at each successive stroke of the knife a fresh portion of the vessel would be touched. In carrying on this deep dissection, the operator should proceed methodically from one side of the tumour to the other, the assistants holding aside the skin so as to give as much room as possible, while the Surgeon himself, seizing the mass with his left hand, or with a large double hook or vulsellum, and dragging it well forward, uses the knife by successive strokes, but in a leisurely and careful manner, avoiding all undue haste, until he completely detaches the tumour from its connections. The safety of contiguous important structures will be best secured by keeping the edge of the knife constantly directed towards the tumour, if this be non-malignant; by attention to this rule, tumours may be removed with remarkable safety and ease from the neigh- bourhood of most important parts. If, however, the growth be malignant, the incisions must be made wide of the disease into the healthy structures around; unless this be done, portions of the tumour may be left from which fresh growths will rapidly sprout, or tissues apparently healthy may be left which are in reality impregnated with cancer cells. After the tumour has been removed, it must be carefully examined, with the view of ascertaining whether it be entire ; and, if any portions have been left, these must be properly dissected out. In some situations, as the axilla, the side of the neck, or the groin, where the relations are of great importance, the less the edge of the knife is used the better, and the growth should be enucleated by the Surgeon's fingers or by the handle of the scalpel. In removing tumours from the neck or axilla the danger of the entrance of air into a half-divided vein, held open by the traction on the tumour, must never be forgotten. {See p. 489.) The Surgeon should rarely undertake the removal of tumours that cannot be completely extirpated, as the part left will always grow with greatly increased rapidity, often assuming a fungous character ; this is especially the case with malignant tumours, the rapidity of increase of which is greatly augmented by partial operations. The only exception to this rule is that a large ulcerating and necrosing mass may occasionally be removed with the view of giving the patient temporary ease. Should, however, the Surgeon have begun the operation with the intention of removing the whole, and have been deceived as to the depth and connexions of the mass ; if, for instance, he find, after commencing his operation, that the tumour extends more deeply than had been anticipated, and comes into close relation with important vessels, as at the summit of the axilla or in the perinseum, thus preventing him from dissecting it out without imminent risk of destroying the patient, the only alternative left is one that I have seen Listen adopt, and have had occasion myself to practise ; viz., to throw a