PREDISPOSING CAUSES OF CANCER. 1053 of the opposite mode of transmission. A lady died of cancer of the stomach ; one of her daughters died of cancer of the stomach, another of cancer of the breast ; and of her grandchildren, two died of cancer of the breast, two of cancer of the uterus, one of cancer of the bladder, one of "cancer of the axillary glands," one of cancer of the stomach, and one of cancer of the rectum. The hereditary tendency transmitted from parent to offspring would seem therefore to be not purely local, as in the case of a peculiar feature, a fifth finger, or the like, but to affect the whole of the epithelial tissues, the particular spot at which the cancer appears being dependent on local causes usually unknown. Admit- ting the hereditary nature of cancer to the fullest extent, however, it still leaves two-thirds of the cases unaccounted for. Age exercises a marked influence on the occurrence of cancer, both as to its frequency and its mode of growth. The statistics published before 1870 in this country, and perhaps a few years earlier in Germany, cannot be relied upon as giving a just notion of the influence of age on the occurrence of trae cancer. Before that time all soft rapidly growing sarcomata were described as cancers. The mahgnant glioma of the eyeball, and sarcomatous tumours of the testicle and bone, being formerly classed as encephaloid cancer, that disease was said not to be uncommon in children. Now that these are excluded, all forms of cancer may be said to be almost unknown under 20. Gurlt, who possesses the patience and industry necessary for the collection of statistics to a degree rarely if ever equalled, has obtained from various sources the records of 16,600 cases of tumours of all kinds. Of these, 11,131 were cancers. In 4,769 cases of cancer, of which the age is recorded, only 0*4 per cent, occurred under the age of 20. As some of the statistics extend back to the year 1855, it is possible that even this number is in excess of the truth. In the opposite extreme of life there is no limit to the age at which cancer may occur. According to Walshu the proportion of deaths from cancer per thousand living at each age increases steadily up to 80. Gurlt shows that the absolute frequency of cancer reaches its maximum between 41 and 50, 31*68 per cent, of all cases occurring between those ages. Age influences also the liability to cancer in special organs. Thus, in extreme old age cancer of the breast is less common than in younger women, while old men are more liable to cancer of the bladder and prostate, and to squamous cancer of the lip. Thus, Walshe states that proportionally to the number living, cancer is more common in men than in women after 80. Sibley states that the average age of patients with uterine cancer is 43, and with mammary 48 years. The age of the patient exerts a considerable influence on the rate of growth and malignancy of the tumour. As a rule, the younger the patient, the more rapidly does the tumour grow, the earlier does it att'ect the lymphatic glands, and the more widely disseminated are the secondary growths. This rule has, however, many exceptions. Statistics tend to show that there has been a steady increase in the mortality from cancer during recent years. According to Spencer Wells the deaths from cancer in England and Wales numbered 7,245 in 1861 or 360 per million, whilst in 1887 the deaths were 17,113 or 606 per million. Such statistics doubtless include many cases of sarcoma, but putting aside various possible sources of error I have no doubt that the disease is on the increase. Mental Emotmis of a depressing character, if long-continued or frequently repeated, may possibly predispose to the occurrence of cancer. I have seen so many cases of cancer, more particularly of the abdominal organs, in