504 INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. owing to the adhesion of the divided tendon to its sheath, and of this to the neio-hbouring soft strnctures. AYarm sea-water donches, followed by methodi- cal friction, will greatly tend to restore the suppleness of the parts. If the stiffness does not readily yield to milder treatment, the adhesions mnst be broken down by forcible movement of the part under an ana3sthetic. By the end of one month after the injury there will be no fear of tearing through the bond of union while so doing. Tendons or muscles divided in an open wound must be treated by immediate suture. Either chromic catgut or antiseptic silk sutures may be used, the former being preferable; the wound should be closed over them, the hmb placed in such a position as to relax the tendon, and every effort made to obtain union by the first intention. If suppuration takes place between the ends of a divided tendon, the bond of union, if any is developed, is almost always imperfect, and the divided ends form firm adhesions to the surrounding parts. Should pus form in the wound, there is great risk of its burrowing widely in the sheath, or in the loose areolar tissue surrounding the divided tendon, an accident which may be followed by sloughing of the tendon, or at least by extensive and dense adhe- sions. Injuries of Special MitscI;ES axd Tendons.— When the tendo Achillis is ruptured, the best mode of treatment consists in the application of an apparatus formed of a dog-collar placed round the thigh above the knee, from which a strap is attached to a loop in the back of a slipper ; by shortening this strap, the leg is bent on the thigh, and the foot extended, so that the muscles of the calf become completely relaxed (Fig. 156). After this simple apparatus has been used for two or three weeks the patient may be allowed to go about, wearing a high-heeled shoe for some weeks longer. Fig. i56.-strap for Rup- Partial Rupture of the Muscles of the Calf.— tare of the tendo AcliiUis. " ^ n t m ■ This injury has received the name or Lawn lenms Leg, from the frequency with which it occurs amongst middle-aged gentlemen during that game. It consists of a rupture of some of the fibres of the gastrocnemius, usually near their attachment to the tendon. The patient feels a sudden pain, so that he may think he has been struck with a ball, and finds he cannot use his leg. Sometimes a small sulcus may be felt at the seat of the rupture. On the following day the calf is more or less discoloured by extravasated blood. The treatment recommended by Wharton Hood is to elevate the limb for a few minutes, and then to strap the leg in the same way as for a chronic ulcer. The strapping must not be too tightly applied at first. On the third day it may be removed and re-applied more firmly, and this must be repeated at intervals of two or three days for about two weeks. The patient may move about during the treatment, but must avoid violent exercise. The Quadriceps Extensor of the Thigh may be torn away from the insertion into the patella, or the tendon of the rectus may be ruptured about an inch above this. Such an accident occurs in the same way that a patella is broken across, namely, by a violent muscular effort to prevent falling whilst the knee is semi-flexed. Under these circumstances one of three things will