68i COMPOUND DISLOCATION OF WRIST. in five cases somewhat similar to the above. In every case recovery took place with practically no impairment of function. Dislocations of the Weist are of such rare occurrence that their exist- ence has been denied by Surgeons of great experience. Although there can be no doubt that fractures at the lower end of the radius, more especially when impacted, have often been mistaken for these displacements, yet there can be no question that they do occasionally occur, any doubt upon this point having been cleared up by the dissection of cases by Marjolin and Voillemier. The observations of these Surgeons, together with those previously made by Astley Cooper, tend to show that dislocation of the Hand and Carpus from the radius may take place either lad-wards o\ forwards. These accidents are occasioned either by falls on the palm, or by the hand being forcibly bent forwards. In falls on the palm the hand may be thrown forwards under the bones of the foreaj-m, lying on their palmar aspect. In forcible bending of the hand forwards there may be displace- ment of it and the carpus backwards on the dorsal aspect of the radius and ulna. In the Dislocation of the Hand and Carpus Backwards—the Dorsal displacement—there will be shortening; a Fig. 201.—Dislocation of the Hand and Carpu.s forwards. of the limb below the elbow, with large dorsal prominence occasioned by the cai-pus overlapping the lower end of the radius, which bone will be felt and seen as a projection on the palmar side. In the other variety of radio- carpal dislocation, the Hand and Carpus are thrown Forwards under the radius and ulna on their Palmar aspect. This dislocation is illustrated in the accompanying figure taken from a cast sent to me by Cadge of Norwich (Fig. 261). In it the projection of the styloid process of the ulna and the lower end of the radius form a concave line on the dorsal aspect, overlapping the carpus, which lies on the palmar side of the radius. The Diagnosis of these injuries has to be made from sprains of the wrist, from simple and from impacted fractures of the radius. The great and prominent deformity will at once enable the Surgeon to distinguish a disloca- tion from a simple sprain. From simple fracture of the lower end of the radius, the peculiar deformity (see p. 591)), and the absence of crepitus, will afford ready means of diagnosis. It is from the impacted fracture of the lower end of the radius that it is most difficult to distinguish a dislocation. In the dislocation, however, the general laxity of the wrist-joint, the greater readiness wdth which the deformity is removed, the peculiar and abrupt swelhng, and the absence of obliquity of the hand towards the radial side, will enable the Surgeon to distinguish the true nature of the injury. In the Treatment of these cases, reduction is readily effected, and must be maintained by the application of antero-postcrior splints of sufficient length to take in the hand. Compound Dislocation of the Wrist, without fracture of the bones of