SYPHILIDES OF THE SKIN. 1147 after by the physicians and the rubbers, and regularly dieted in his bote , cannot neglect the treatment as he is too apt to do at home. It is tor ricli patients who are not taking proper care of themselves that a visit to the baths is to be recommended. A course lasts from six to seven weeks. Sarsaparilla formerly enjoyed a great reputation in the treatment of syphihs, but at the present time it is little used. It may, however, be given m the late secondary or tertiary stage, especially if the patient have fallen into a cachectic state, having lost flesh, colour, appetite, and spirits. In this condition of the system dilute nitro-hydrochloric acid, in doses of iifteen to twenty minims, with half an ounce of the liquid extract of sarsaparilla in four ounces of water, may be taken three times a day. Cod-liver Oil is often of great use when there has been considerable Joss ot flesh. It may be given at the same time as the iodides of potassium or iron. Bitter Tonics and the Preparations of Iron are frequently useful in the tertiary stage. They are given on general principles after or in the intervals of specific treatment. LOCAL SECONDARY AND TERTIARY MANIFESTATIONS OF SYPHILIS. Local Secot^dary Affections.—We shall next proceed to describe the character and treatment of the diff*erent local forms in which constitutional syphilis manifests itself, and shall consider them as affecting the skin ; the mucous membranes of the mouth, nose, tongue, palate, and larynx ; the eye, bones, testes, muscles, viscera, and nervous system. 1. Syphilitic Affections of the Skin.—Syphilo-dermata or Syphihdes present various modifications of appearance, corresponding closely to the different groups of simple cutaneous diseases ; thus we find exanthematous, papular, squamous, vesicular, pustular, and tubercular syphilitic affections of the skin, with various ulcers and growths. These differ from the corresponding simple cutaneous diseases, in their redness being more dusky or coppery, in leaving stains of a brownish or purplish hue, and in their giving rise to no itching or other painful sensations. The general pathology of these affections has already been described (p. 1130). Besides this, syphilis may modify materially the general character of the cuticle, causing it to assume a yellow or earthy tint, and to be rough or powdery. Syphilitic skin diseases arrange themselves under the following groups :— Syphilitic Roseola consists of blotches of a reddish-brown or coppery tint, becoming more distinct as the redness declines ; they vary in size from small circular spots to large and diff'used patches, and are usually first observed about the abdomen. Syphilitic roseola is the most constant, and the earliest of all the syphilitic eruptions, often appearing before the primary sore is healed. It usually appears about seven or eight weeks after infection, and may last from a few days to two or three weeks. It is very frequently accom- panied by an erythematous redness of the throat. The Squamous syphilide, or as it is often called syphilitic pso7iasis, occurs in small patches of an irregular shape, of a dusky red colour, sometimes assuming a coppery tint, covered with thin filmy scales. In many instances, however, the patches are quite smooth, and have a glazed and almost shining look. They are usually situated on the inside of the arms and thighs,