558 FRACTURES. skin, that enlargement of the wound becomes necessary before it can be replaced. In other cases, again, reduction cannot be efiTected or maintained, unless the sharp and projecting point of bone be sawn off. The limb as I have found in several cases in which it has been necessary to have recourse to this procedure, is not ultimately weakened, or necessarily shortened by it, 2. In the Management of Splinters the Surgeon will be guided by the circumstances. If the splinter be completely loose and small it is always better removed. If it be very large, two inches or more in length, forming in fact rather a fragment of the bone than a splinter, it may be left, even when completely loose. If a splinter is still attached by periosteum it may usually be safely left, even when small. 8. Treatment of Oozing of Blood.—In cases in which there is evidently no important vessel wounded, blood often continues to ooze slowly from the wound, and it becomes a question whether anything should be done to arrest it. The only means at our command are elevation of the limb, cold, and pressure. The two former of these may be resorted to whenever the oozing may seem sulhcient to render it necessary, but pressure shoukl be avoided if possible. The blood is coming in all probability from the deep parts, very often from the bone itself; pressure, therefore, cannot be apphed to the bleeding surface. If applied externally it merely causes the intermuscular spaces and the cavity of the wound to be distended with blood, and should decomposition follow the consequences are most serious. The oozing will always stop by itself after a few hours, and if the patient should lose a few ounces of blood in that way it is better than having the same quantity extravasated into the limb. 4. Treatment of the Wound.—After reduction the great object is, if possible, to obtain union of the external wound by the first intention or by healing under a scab, thus converting the compound into a simple fracture and avoiding the danger of suppuration. If the wound be small, clean-cut, and occasioned by the protrusion of the fragment rather than by the direct violence which occasioned the fracture, we may hope to succeed in our object. In order to do this the wound must on no account be washed with simple water, which would materially increase the risk of decomposition taking place "in the extravasated blood or serum. If an efficient antiseptic solution be at hand, such as carbolic lotion (1 in 20), perchloride of mercury (1 in 1000), or tincture of iodine (5ij. to Oj), the wound and the surrounding skin should be cleaned with this and allowed to dry. If no such means are at hand, the blood should be wiped away with a clean dry linen rag. The opening may then be closed in a way recommended by Astley Cooper, by applying to it a piece of lint soaked in the blood and allowing it to dry. A better plan is to seal the wound with lint soaked in collodion or styptic colloid, or in compound tincture of benzoin. In this way an artificial scab may be formed beneath which union may take place. The dressing should be left undisturbed until it loosens of itself, at the end of a week or two, when the wound will probably be found to be closed. If, however, the patient after a few days begins to complain of pain, if the temperature rises and the leg becomes red, hot and swollen, the crust must at once be removed ; and if pus flows from beneath it, it is safer at once to enlarge the wound freely. Supposing the case to be one in which from the size of the wound, or the amount of swelling, it is evidently impossible to hope to close the wound by