SPECIAL FRACTURES. 598 Fig. 196. — Obliteration of the interosseous space in a fracture of the forearm. Stiffness of the wrist and fingers. I have seen more than one case in which this has happened. Gi-een-stick fracture of the forearm in children is far from uncommon, and the bones should be snapped completely throug-h before the splints are applied, otherwise angular deformity is almost certainly left. In a case of fi'acture of the upper end of the ulna, under the care of Marcus Beck, there was marked angular deformity backwards, caused by the action of the triceps. This deformity could be reduced only by putting up the limb with the elbow extended. Period of Union.—The average time of union in the forearm is five weeks. Compound Fractures of the Forearm seldom give much trouble or require amputation, but they veiy commonly lead to obliteration of the interosseous space, and thus impair the utility of the limb, by preventing pro- nation and supination. • 3. Fractures of the Lower Extremity of the Radius, near the wrist, are very frequent, especially in w^omen after the age of 45. Their importance, not only from a diagnostic point of view^, but also in reference to treatment, has caused them to be carefully studied ; and their nature and pathology have been specially investigated by Colles, Nelaton, R. W. Smith, and Gordon. The lower end of the radius is liable to several different The most common of these is that which is generally called " CoUes's Fracture," after the eminent Surgeon who first fully described it. In this fracture the carpal end of the radius is broken across, usually by a fall on the palm of the hand, the lower fragment being displaced backwards. Gordon, who gave great attention to the mechanism of this fracture, states that, in twenty-seven old specimens examined by him, the line of fracture posteriorly varied from f to If inch, and anteriorly from f of an inch to two inches above the carpal border of the radius, being in ten one inch and under, in ten more than one inch but not over If inch, in the others indefinable. The fracture is usually oblique from before backwards. Besides Golles's, three other fractures are met with in this situation : 1, Simple Transverse ; 2, with com- minution of the Lower Fragment; and 3, with firm Impaction of the Upper into the Lower Fragment. The Signs of fracture of the lower end of the radius vary greatly, according to the nature of the injury. In an uncomplicated case, there is usually no very great displacement ; but there will be noticed some tumefaction about the wrist, a swelling at its dorsal aspect, loss of the movement of the radius, and crepitus on rotating the bone whilst the hand is drawn down. When the fracture is comminuted, and still more so when impacted, the deformity is very marked and characteristic ; so much so, that it may be looked upon as diag- nostic of these forms of this accident. The displacement gives rise to "a remarkable undular distortion of the wrist. On looking sideways at the hand and forearm held midway between supination and pronation, it will be seen that there is a considerable dorsal prominence apparently situated just above kinds of fracture.