2IO LOCAL DISTUMBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. soluble in blood-serum in the proportion of 1 in 3000. It has little or no tendency to combine with albumen. The salt dissolved in serum has but feeble powers as a germicide if tested by its action on the spores of bacilli, but, on the other hand, its powers of inhibiting their growth are very considerable, and this is, from a practical point of view, all that is required for an anti- septic dressing. The preparation used is a gauze impregnated with the cyanides. It is a beautifully absorbent and a very efficient dressing. It is coloured mauve with rosolane, an aniline dye, which serves to fix the double salt in the gauze. Creolin is a preparation of gas-tar closely resembling the original material in appearance and smell. It is said to be non-poisonous and free from carbolic acid. It is insoluble in water, but in the strength of 1 to 3 per cent, it forms an emulsion w^hich can be used as a lotion to w^ash a wound or to moisten a dressing. The emulsion must be freshly prepared for each dressing, as it soon changes into a dirty brownish liquid on standing. It can also be used in the form of ointment. There is no doubt that an emulsion of creolin, from the strength 1 per cent, upwards, is a most efficient and unirritating antiseptic. Chloride of Zinc—The efficient strength of this antiseptic, which is the active principle of Burnett's fluid, is doubtful. According to Koch, a solution of about five grains to the ounce will not certainly kill non-spore-bearing organisms, and one of twenty grains to the ounce has no effect whatever on the spores of the haciJlus anthracis. Its use in the treatment of wounds was introduced by Campbell De Morgan more than thirty years ago. It is usually employed in the strength of forty grains to the ounce of water. This solution produces a whitening of the surface, but the action is very superficial, and it does not cause the formation of a visible slough unless applied for some length of time; in fact, even in this strength, it does not prevent union by first inten- tion. The W'hitened surface has been shown by experiment to form a remark- ably efficient barrier to the absorption of the chemical products of putrefaction, and experience proves that decomposition of the discharges will not commence for about three days in a wound thus treated. It therefore forms a most useful application to w'onnds in which it is impossible to employ strict anti- septic treatment, such as those opening into the mouth, rectum, or bladder ; for by the third day, when its influence seems to be exhausted, the opened lymph-spaces are so far closed by plastic exudation that the dangers of septic absorption are greatly diminished. It has no toxic effects when thus applied, but it must never be injected in this strength into any cavity or wound, as should any quantity be left behind, or should the lymph-spaces be injected, it may cause serious and extensive sloughing. It must be used only w^here the surface can be dried afterwards Avith a sponge. Boric Acid was introduced into surgical practice by Lister. It is one of the less powerful, and at the same time one of the least irritating, of chemical antiseptics. It is soluble in 2() parts of cold water or in 3 of boiling water. Its efficient strength as an antiseptic is said to be about 1 in 130 or four grains to the ounce, but the concentrated cold solution or " horic acid lotion " is more commonly used. It is prepared by adding one ounce of the crystallised acid to a pint of boiling water, and afterwards allowing it to cool and the excess of the crystals to settle down ; it forms a useful lotion for w^ashing or irrigating wounds. Glycerine may be added to the lotion in the proportion of half a drachm to one ounce to prevent its drying when used, as to moisten a dressing.