265 TREATMENT OF CHRONIC ABSCESSES. A. E. Barker. Some iodoform emulsion may be injected before the incision is closed with sutures. The flushing and scraping must be performed with care, and the Surgeon must avoid tearing through the bands, which are often felt crossing the cavity, as these may contain vessels of considerable size. The profuse capillary hgemorrhage which sometimes occurs from the wall of the abscess may be arrested by firm pressure. Incision and Drainage is the mode of treatment which becomes necessary sooner or later in many cases. It should, however, as far as possible, be reserved for cases in which the methods already described are not available or have failed. The dangers attending the opening of a large chronic abscess, should putrefaction of the discharges follow, have already been pointed out. Efficient antiseptic means must be adopted to prevent this accident, and if from any cause this be not possible, the dangers that follow the admission of air may be greatly reduced by making free incisions and inserting large drainage- tubes, so that the quantity of decomposable matter shall be reduced to a minimum. If a chronic abscess has been opened and, either from neglect of antiseptic precautions or failure of the means adopted, the discharges become offensive, the patient's life may be endangered either by the profuseness of the suppura- tion or by the absorption of the products of putrefaction. In these circum- stances if the abscess has been opened by a small wound not larger than is required for the insertion of the drainage-tube, it is wiser, if possible, to enlarge the wound, or if this be not possible, to make a free counter-opening. In this way by establishing perfect drainage, the danger of septic poisoning is greatly lessened. At the same time the cavity may be cleaned out with a sponge soaked in a solution of chloride of zinc (40 gr. to 3].), and the raw surface dusted with iodoform, after which an antiseptic dressing may be applied. It is possible sometimes in this way to render the cavity perfectly aseptic. The immediate effect of this proceeding is usually to cause an elevation of temperature, soon followed by a permanent fall. Tliis mode of treatment is specially applicable to chronic abscesses connected with joints If the cavity be of great size and deeply situated as in the case of a psoas or lumbar abscess, complete disinfection is extremely difficult. The abscess may be washed out by injection of some antiseptic solution, such as Condy's fluid carbolic acid lotion (1 in 40), corrosive sublimate (] in 2000), or boric acid' and by this means the offensive smell of the discharge may be diminished' but the suppuration is kept up, or even increased, by the repeated application