IXJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 4o8 somewhat ; while the external coat and the sheath of the vessel, being elastic, are dragged down and twisted over the torn end of the artery, so as completely to prevent the escape of blood (Fig. 121). When the laceration of the artery is subcutaneous, as occasionally happens in the attempted reduction of an old dislocation of the shoulder, the artery is not as a rule completely torn across, and then either extensive extravasation, Fig. 121.—Complete Rupture of an Artery.—Vessel laid open. Inner and middle coats broken short, outer coat drawn out. or one of the varieties of Traumatic Aneurism, to be described in Chapter XV., may be produced. In Penetrating Wounds of an artery, there is always hsemorrhage, unless the puncture be so fine as to be closed by the elasticity of the coats of the vessel. Thus, Maisonneuve has shown that an artery may be punctured with a fine needle, without any htemorrhage resulting. If, however, the puncture be larger than this, being made by a tenaculum or hook, it does not commonly close in this way ; and, if hjemorrhage do not take place immediately, it will probably come on in the course of a few days, from ulceration of the vessel. If the wound be still larger, there is always an amount of immediate haemor- rhage proportionate to its size and to that of the vessel. The Direction of the wound in the artery materially influences its charac- ters. If the cut be parallel to the axis of the vessel, there is less tendency to gaping of the edges than if it be oblique. In transverse wounds of arteries, the retraction of the coats is so great as to cause the wound to assume some- what of a circular appearance. If the artery be cut completely across, there is always less heemorrliage than when it is partially divided ; for the retraction and contraction of the cut ends may then be sufficient to close the vessel, whereas they enlarge the aperture when it is merely wounded. When the wound in the artery is subcutaneous, communicating with the surface only by an obhque and narrow aperture, little, if any, external hemorrhage takes place, but extravasation of blood occurs. The extravasation may either be poured into one of the serous cavities, or it may be diffused in the areolar tissue of the part, infiltrating it extensively, and perhaps by its pressure ultimately producing gangrene ; or it may be effused in a more circum- scribed manner, giving rise to one of the forms of traumatic aneurism (see Chapter XV.). HiEMOERHAGE FROM WOUNDED VESSELS. Local Signs.—The characters of the bleeding or haemorrhage differ accord- ing to the nature of the vessel from which the blood escapes. When a Vein is wounded, the blood that is poured out is of a dark colour, and flows in a uniform stream ; the force with which this is projected depending on the conditions in which the wounded vein is placed. If there be any pressure