FRACTURES OF THE NECK OF THE HUMERUS. 589 the axilla, and filled with padding to maintain its shape. In ^^s way the limb is steadied, and the tendency to displacement mwards of the lower fi-agment is corrected. ^^„^,i^fo/1 The examination and reduction of these fractm-es must be conducted without violence, lest any impaction of the fragments be disturbed or portions of untorn capsule be broken through. In some cases, fracture of the necK 01 the humerus is followed by atrophy of the bone, though good union has taken place. In some cases of separation of the epiphysis the difficulty of reduction is very c^reat, especially if some time has elapsed before the nature of the injury has been recognized. Helferich records a case of this kind m which he suc- ceeded in effecting reduction by exposing the site of the separation and enlarging the slit in the periosteum in which the end of the shaft was engaged. _ Compound Fracture of the Surgical Neck of the Humerus is not ot common occurrence. I have had a case under my care in which this accident happened to a lad from a fall out of a window. The fracture was transverse, and the upper end of the lower fragment was driven upwards, and pro. truded through the deltoid, to the extent of an inch and a half. It was reduced, with difficulty; as great irritation was set up around the seat of injury, and as there was a tendency to recurrent protrusion of the upper extremity of the lower fragment, this was turned out by enlarging the wound, and about an inch and a half of it sawn off. Union took place between the fragments, and a cure, with a very useful arm, was effected. Separation of the Great Tuberosity of the Humerus occurs occasion- ally from falls and blows upon the shoulder; but more commonly as the result of the violent action of the three muscles inserted into it. In this injury there is a double displacement; the tubercle is carried upwards and somewhat backwards away fi'om the head of the bone, and under and towards the posterior part to the acromion process ; the head is drawn upwards and inwards by the muscles passing from the trunk to the arm, as well as by the flexors of the arm, in such a way that it lies upon the inner edge of the glenoid cavity under the coracoid process, and is indeed almost luxated. The consequence of this double displacement is a great increase in the breadth of the shoulder, which is nearly double its natural size ; on examination, a rounded tumour—the head of the bone—movable on rotating the arm, can be felt under the coracoid process, whilst another osseous mass—the great tuberosity—may be felt at the outer and back part of the joint; between these a sulcus is perceptible, and above them the acromion is abnormally prominent. Crepitus may be felt by bringing the two portions of bone into apposition and rotating the arm. This accident, which is rare, has been most carefully described by Guthrie and Smith. The Treatment consists in an attempt to bring the detached tuberosity into contact with the head of the bone, and retain it there. This may be done by placing a small pad in the axilla, and bringing the elbow to the side so as to throw out the head of the bone, at the same time that, by means of a compress, the tuberosity is pressed into proper position, the arm being supported in a sling. Another method consists in elevating and extending the arm from the trunk ; in carrying this out, it is necessary that the patient be confined to bed, the arm being supported on a pillow. The Period of Union in a Fracture of the Neck of the Humerus is about five weeks, at the end of which time the apparatus may be removed,