644 DISLOCATIONS. of the hip-joint, collected by Hamilton : of these, 15 occurred under 15 years of age, 32 between 15 and 30, 29 between 30 and 45, and 8 between 45 and 85. They are necessarily far more common in men than in women, from the nature of their respective occupations. Thus, according to Hamilton, of 115 dislocations of the hip, only 11 occurred in women. The articular ends of the bones of the extremities are kept in their proper positions by the arrangement of the osseous and ligamentous structures of the joints, aided by the continuous tension of the muscles ; and considerable ex- ternal Tiolence may be applied to a limb without dislocating it. If, however, the muscles be taken by surprise, or if they have been weakened by previous injury of any kind, the joint becomes predisposed to dislocation, and may be displaced under the influence of very slight causes ; especially if it be one in which the articulating surface is shallow and the ligaments are comparatively weak. In this way the same joint may be repeatedly dislocated. Thus I have seen a man whose humerus had been dislocated between forty and fifty times, owing to a weakened state of the deltoid. The Direct Causes of Dislocation are external violence and muscular action. External violence may act directly upon a joint, forcing or twisting^ the articular ends asunder, as happens when the foot is displaced by a twist of the ankle, or when the thumb is dislocated backwards by a blow. But more commonly the force acts at a distance from the joint that is displaced, and the head of the bone is thrown out of its socket by " the lever-like movement of the shaft," as happens when the head of the humerus is dislocated by a fall on the hand, or when the head of the femur is dislocated. iMuscular action alone may cause the dislocation of a bone, even though the part be previously in a sound state. Thus, the lower jaw has been dislocated by excessive gaping, and the humerus by making a violent muscular effort. If the joint have already been weakened by previous injury or disease, muscular action is especially apt to occasion its displacement. Congenital dislocations have been supposed to arise from irregular muscular contractions in the foetus, by which the bones are displaced, and the normal development of the joint is interfered with. In dislocations of the ball-and-socket joints, after the head of the bone has been thrown out of its articular cavity, it is often still further displaced by the contraction of the muscles, which continues until they have shortened themselves to their full extent, or until the dislocated bone comes into contact with some osseous prominence that prevents its further displace- ment. Signs.—The existence of a dislocation is rendered evident by the change in the shape of the joint, and in the relation of the osseous prominences to one another : by the articular end of the displaced bone being felt in a new position ; and by an alteration in the length of the limb, and in the direction of its axis. Besides this, there is impaired motion, both active and passive, of the injured articulation, with pain in and around it. It should, however, be borne in mind that fracture may exist with the dislocation ; hence the mobility may be increased. In examining a patient for a supposed dislocation the Surgeon'should never fail to compare the injured joint with that on the other side of the body. Effects.—The effects of dislocation on the structure of a joint are always serious. The bones are occasionally fractured as well as displaced, more parti- cularly in hinge-joints : the cartilages may be injured ; and the Hgaments are