323 ANTISEPTIC TREATMENT OF WOUNDS. by the pressure and partly by the early adhesion of the opposed surfaces, and such discharge as there is escapes between the edges of the wound and is absorbed by the wool and there dried, and thus prevented from decomposing ; all infection from without is prevented by the filtration of the air should any circulate through the mass of cofcton-wool. By this treatment admirable results are often obtained, the wound healing rapidly and painlessly, leaving a simple linear cicatrix. The prevention of putrefaction is, however, uncertain ; if the discharge is small in amount, and becomes completely dried, the case will run an absolutely aseptic course ; more commonly there is a veryfoffcnsive smell, sometimes that of ordinary putrefaction, sometimes quite peculiar. With this there is some septic fever during the first few days. Guerin's dressing has undergone some modifications, and its principles, as will be seen hereafter, have been adopted in some forms of antiseptic dressing. The sub- stitution of absorbent wool, i.e. cotton-wool completely deprived of grease, for common cotton-wool, has rendered the drying of the discharge and the conse- quent prevention of decomposition more perfect, but even with this it is by no means certain. In all the foregoing methods no chemical antiseptic is used in the dressing ; and the prevention of all evils which follow decomposition of the discharges is but imperfectly accomplished. The Antiseptic Treatment of Wounds, as introduced by Lister, has for its object the absolute prevention of decomposition of the discharges by the application to practice of the germ theory of decomposition. The theory has already been described so fully that it remains only to show the mode of its application. The practice does not necessitate the use of any special anti- septic agent, nor of any special material for dressing ; any method of treatment which entirely prevents decomposition, without the constant contact of the antiseptic agent with the raw surface, carries out the principle. The term " aseptic " has sometimes been applied to the various methods of treatment in which the prevention of decomposition is carried out in this way to distinguish them from those in which the cavity of the wound is constantly irrigated or frequently syringed out with an antiseptic fluid. Every accidental wound which has been exposed for some time before it is seen by the Surgeon will probably contain, deposited in it from the air, the organisms which cause decomposition. Still more certainly will this be the case if dirt has been carried in by the instrument inflicting the wound, or if it has been washed with common water. The first step in such a case is, there- fore, to destroy the organisms by washing the surfaces with an efficient antiseptic solution. In the original antiseptic treatment, as introduced by Lister, carbolic acid was the agent used, but at the present time solutions of perchloride of mercury are sometimes employed, and some Surgeons prefer a weak solution of iodine (Tr. lodi 5ij. Aq. Oj.). In the following description of an antiseptic dressing carbolic acid only will be mentioned, but it must be remembered that a solution of perchloride of mercury, 1 in 1000, may be substituted for the carbolic acid 1 in 20, and one of 1 in 2000 of the former for 1 in 40 of the latter, except in the spray and for instruments. In a prolonged operation or in irrigating a large wound it is safer to use a still more dilute solution of mercury. If the injury be a simple incised wound with smooth surfaces, this may be done with a sponge or with a simple irrigator ; if it be irregular, as in a compound fracture, it is best carried out by means of a syringe with a piece of soft india- Y 2