1149 SYPHILIDES OF THE SKIN. flat elevations of a reddish-brown or purplish coloar, usually arranged in groups of single tubercles lying closely together. They are seated on the face or extremities, the skin covering the patella and the ala of the nose being common situations. They may be resolved by proper treatment, but have a great tendency to ulcerate and to be followed by slowly spreading serpiginous sores. S'uhcufaneous syjiJiilitic gummata, or, as they have been called, deep syphihtic tubercles, arise in the tertiary stage of syphilis as hard indolent masses in the subcutaneous tissue, usually accompanied by some shght aching pain or tenderness. They may vary in size from a pea to a walnut. They are of slow growth, but ultimately become adherent to the skin, which then assumes a dusky-purple tint. If unrelieved by treatment the gumma softens and the skin gives way over it, exposing the characteristic adherent slough resembling wet wash-leather. This slowly separates, leaving a deep cavity. Subcutaneous gummata may occur at any part of the body ; common situations are the back of the thigh and the upper part of the arm. Syphilitic Boils of a somewhat chronic character, but painful, and discharg- ing a thin ichorous pus, with a core of shreddy areolar tissue, and leaving deep, irregular, and foul ulcers, are sometimes met with. Syphilitic Ulcers are superficial and deep. The superficial ulcers arise from pustules, ecthyma, rupia, superficial tubercles, or boils. In some cases, espe- cially on the leg, they arise like simple ulcers from some slight injury, but assume peculiar features in consequence of the syphilitic taint. Superficial syphilitic ulcers are usually characterized by their multiplicity, by their tendency to spread at one edge while healing at the other, and thus to assume a crescentic or serpiginous form, and by their unhealthy grey surface. They leave bluish or brownish cicatrices, often thin and smooth, and apt to break open again on slight irritation. The deep ulcers arise from softening gummata as above described. The Hair during the first year of syphilis frequently becomes lustreless and dull, and comes out in large quantities, often so as to cause baldness—syphilitic alopecia. Occasionally it may separate in patches. The baldness is not per- manent ; in fact, it resembles the fall of the hair so often noticed in erysipelas and various fevers. Diseases of the Nails are common. During the early stages the nails fre- quently become brittle and irregular in growth. A more serious affection is Si/philitic Onychia, which consists in a chronic inflamuLition of the matrix, with foetid discharge from under the nail; the end of the affected digit is swollen, purple in colour, and intensely tender ; the nail becomes black, more or less bent, and scales ofi", leaving a dirty ulcerated surface exposed beneath. One nail only is usually affected. Ulceration bekveen the Toes with excessively foul discharge and great swelling of the foot is not an uncommon condition in syphilis. It apparently arises from the formation of soft flat growths of the same character as the mucous tubercles at the anus, the ulceration being due to the irritating secre- tion between the toes and want of cleanliness. It is easily recognized, for it may be taken as a rule that all ulcerations between the toes are due either to syphilis or to scabies. The ordinary soft corn discharges no pus. The Treatment of Syphilitic affections of the Skin must be conducted in accordance with the general principles already laid down. All the symmetrical