1130 VENEREAL DISEASES. the lymphatics which pass along the dorsum of the penis can often be detected, and must be looked upon as good evidence of the syphilitic nature of a doubt- ful sore. The lymphatic is usually felt as a fine hard cord, but occasionally it may reach the size of a cedar pencil. SECONDARY AND TERTIARY CONSTITUTIONAL MANIFESTATIONS OF SYPHILIS. In describing the constitutional manifestations of syphihs it will be most convenient to give first an outline of the general pathology and the ordinary course of the disease and its treatment, and subsequently to consider in detail the special syphilitic affections of the various textures and organs. General Pathology and Progress op Syphilis.—After the appearance of the initial manifestation there is usually an interval of from five to seven weeks before any further characteristic symptoms are developed. This has been termed " the period of second incubation." During this time there is in most cases some disturbance of health ; the patient becomes pale, and suffers from malaise or a general sense of indisposition, often with some loss of flesh. Neuralgic pains in the head and other parts of the body are common. Some- times there is distinct but slight febrile disturbance jusc before the cutaneous eruptions make their appearance. This is seldom sufficiently marked to attract attention, but in very rare instances the fever may be high and accompanied by delirium. At the end of this period, often before the primary sore is healed, the secondary manifestations of the disease make their appearance. These consist of various superficial affections of the skin and mucous membranes, usually appearing more or less symmetrically. In the skin the early syphiKtic erup- tions or syphilides present the following gradations. In the simplest form there is hyperjemia of the papillse in localized spots with some retardation of the blood-stream. We consequently get a red patch of a somewhat dusky colour not perceptibly elevated above the surface. On pressing on the dis- coloured area the red tint disappears, and a faint brownish or copper-coloured stain is left behind. This is presumably due to staining of the tissues by the pigment from a few corpuscles which have escaped from the distended vessels. This form of eruption is described as macular sijioMlide or syjJhiUtic roseola. It is the most common and. the earliest of all the cutaneous affections. It occurs also on mucous membranes, and is usually of short duration. If the hypertemia continues for a longer time, the papillae become swollen and an increased growth of epithelium takes place on their surface. There is thus formed a red patch, slightly elevated and covered with a branny or scaly layer of desquamating epithelium. This is the squamous syphilide or syphiUtdc psoriasis, a common early syphilitic eruption. If the eruption occurs in a moist place, as in the neighbourhood of the anus or on a mucous membrane, the hypertrophy of the papillas is usually more marked, and the new epithelium instead of forming dry scales separates early or forms a sodden white mass on the surface of the patch. Occasionally the papillary aspect of the growth is very distinct. This is the mucous tubercle or flat condijloma, and when the eruption is general every gradation may be traced between it and the squamous syphilide, according to the degree of moisture of the part in which the patch is situated. The next degree of the process is the sypJiilitic 2)cipide or papular syphilide.