956 CELLULITIS. pelas of Newly-born Infants, Erysipelas Neonatorum, is occasionally met with, more ]»articular]y in lying-in hos])itiil8, or in situations where the mother and child are exposed to depressing causes of disease. It usually appears a few days after the birth, at first about the abdomen and genitals, and soon spreads widely over the body, being characterised by a dusky redness which rapidly runs into gangrene of the affected tissues. It starts in many cases from the raw surface left by the separation of the umbilical cord. It is extremely fatal, owing to the feeble vitality of the child, and presents but fcAv points for treatment ; change of air and of nursing, with the administration of a few drops of spirits of ammonia or brandy from time to time, being all that can be done. Idiopathic Erysipelas of the Head is always of the cutaneous form, having no tendency to end in suppuration or gangrene. The only peculiarity it presents is the excessive oedema of the subcutaneous tissue usually accom- panying it, which completely obliterates the features. As the result of the tension caused by this, a little pus may occasionally form in the eyelids. Large blebs on the skin are very common. It is always accompanied by some redness and soreness of the throat. The inflammation as a rule starts from the junction of the mucous membrane and skin, as at the angle of the eye, spreading quickly to the bridge of the nose : at the orifice of the meatus auditorius externus, or the angle of the mouth. Its origin without a small abrasion or wound has frequently been denied. The course, symptoms, prog- nosis and treatment are those of simple cutaneous erysipelas (pp. 944 et seq.). Cellulitis of the Orbit may occur primarily, or as the result of extension of the disease from the neighbouring structures. It is dangerous, and often fatal from thrombosis of the cavernous sinus and meningitis. It commences with a violent deep-seated pain in the orbit; the conjunctiva becomes injected and ecchymosed, the eyelids are greatly swollen, red, and oedematous ; the eyeball protrudes, and vision is impaired or altogether lost. Symptoms oi' cerebral inflammation may now set in, the patient becoming delirious and finally comatose. The Treatment consists in fomentations, with ear^y and free incisions into the orbit, made by pushing a lancet flat-wise between the eye-ball and the orbital w^alls, through the inflamed conjunctiva, the eyelids having previously been everted. In this way inflammatory efl'usions and pus may be evacuated, and the eye saved. Destructive abscesses of the orbit occasionally occur in the puerperal state, requiring, when practicable, the free evacuation of pus, in the way just mentioned. Diffuse Cellulitis of the Scalp following a wound has already been described (pp. 717, 720). Diffuse Cellulitis of the Submaxillary Region was first accurately recognized by Ludwig, of Stuttgart, in 1836 ; hence the affection has some- times received the name of Ludwig's Angina. It has also been specially described by Bickersteth, of Liverpool, and by Croly, of Dublin, and in an exhaustive paper by E. W. Parker {Lancet, Vol. II., 1879). Submaxillary cellulitis is an acute diffuse inflammation of the areolar tissue beneath the deep cervical fascia, attended with the ordinary severe constitutional symptoms of diffuse cellulitis, and terminating rapidly in suppuration, with sloughing of the affected tissues unless relieved by prompt and efficient treatment. The peculiar danger of the affection depends on the importance of the parts affected