I 122 VENEREAL DISEASES. there is no definite evidence to show that the secretions of apparently healthy mucous surfaces or glands in a syphilitic subject are capable of transmitting' the disease. The actual inoculation of the virus may take place in many ways. There is no reason to believe that it can enter the system through an unbroken epithelial surface. On the other hand, it readily infects any surface from which the epithelium has been removed by abrasion, vesication, or ulceration. Wounds or punctures are also readily inoculated. Infection naturally takes place in most cases during coitus, and the primary manifestation is usually situated in those parts most likely to suffer from abrasion during the act. Whether the vaginal mucus of a syphilitic woman is capable of conveying the poison, if she be not at the same time suffering from primary sores or mucous tubercles, is uncertain. The next most common source of infection is the secretion of the mouth. As before stated, the saliva alone has not been proved to be capable of con- veying the poison, but if mingled with the secretion from mucous tubercles or the discharges from secondary ulcerations of the tongue or tonsils, it is un- doubtedly infectious. The disease is then most commonly communicated by kissing, and the primary sore appears on the lip or cheek. Authentic cases are also on record in which the infection has been carried by drinking vessels, spoons, or pipes, and in one case the primary sore appeared on the knuckle in a cut received whilst striking the alfected person on the mouth. Infants suffering from inherited syphilis have infected their wet-nurses, the primary manifestation appearing at the nipple. This point is one of very great import- ance, inasmuch as actions for damages have been brought by women who have stated that they have become diseased from the child they have nursed. There are so many cases of the kind recorded, that there can be no doubt as to the possibility of the occurrence. Hunter and Lawrence related cases in which an infected child communicated the disease to several nurses in succes- sion ; in Hunter's cases three wet nurses were successively infected, two of whom gave the disease again to their own children. The disease is especially apt to be communicated in this way, if the nurse have any crack or abrasion upon her nipple, and the infant sores in the mouth. Cohes, however, who had great experience in syphilis, states that the disease may be communicated to the nurse from an infected child by mere contact, without excoriation ; but when we consider that a period of three Aveeks or more may intervene between inoculation and the appearance of any sign of the disease, the statement must be accepted with considerable caution. Whether a wet-nurse can infect the child she suckles through the medium of the milk is a more doubtful question, and cannot be said to be finally deter- mined. Kicord and many others of equal authority believe it to be possible, and my own opinion is that syphihs has been transmitted in this way, though very rarely. In Ran1cing''s Abstract, vol. iv., a number of cases are recorded in proof of its occurrence. Primary sores on the finger are unfortunately by no means uncommon amongst Surgeons and accoucheurs, who become infected whilst dressing syphilitic sores or attending diseased women in labour. Washerwomen are said to have been infected in the hands by washing linen soiled by the dis- charges from venereal sores. The transmission of the disease by vaccination with lymph taken from a