SPECIAL FRACTURES. 638 lateral leg-splints, with rectangular foot-pieces, and swing it in a cradle, i have found the splint shown in Fig. 238 a very useful appliance in cases ol fracture of the bones of the leg, one or both, in their lower third. The apparatus consists of an ordinary leg-splint cut across at the upper ])art of the lower third, the two pieces being united by a double rack and pinion. The various displacements that are apt to occur with fractures in this situation can thus be countei-acted and corrected. It is in cases of fracture of the lower third of the fibula, with displacement outwards, or of both bones low down with tendency to displacement backwards, that this splint will be found most useful. It may be applied to either side of the leg, as seems best to suit Fig. --'SS.—Rack-aiid-Piiiioii-Lt'g-Spliiit applied to correct Displacement of Foot outwards. the case in question. Whatever apparatus is used, care must be taken to keep the foot at a right angle with the leg. If the toes be allowed to point, it will be found that there is in some cases a tendency for the astragahis to roll forwards, as it were, from under the malleolar arch. In other instances, again, one of the sharp angular fragments connected with the bone may be pressed forwards, and uniting in this position, give rise to permanent deformity. But whaten^^er care be employed, or apparatus applied, it will be found impossible in some cases to replace one of the thin angular fragments, if it become twisted on its axis, and project sharply under the skin. If the foot be twisted much outwards, as often happens in Pott's fracture, ' '^^^y^^^^^ 1 i ^—T \ \ Fig. 239.—Application of Dupuytreii's Splint in Pott's Fracture. Dv/puytren')i splint may be applied to the inner side of the limb, to counteract the displacement (Fig. 289). In applying the apparatus, three points require attention : 1. The pad should be folded double at the lower end, and not descend below the upper fragment, so as to form a fulcrum, across wdiich the foot may be drawn to the inner side. 2. The bandage should be applied first to the upper part of the splint. It should not be carried above the knee, but terminate just below the flexure of the joint. 3. The knee should be bent, so as to flex the leg on the thigh, and thus relax the muscles of the calf, which, by drawing up the heel, offer a serious obstacle to the maintenance of the foot in a good position. Much stiffness is always left after union has