SHOCK: SYMPTOMS. zoi may be brought about by stimulation of the vagus. If that nerve be exposed in an animal, and stimulated by an electno current of moderate strength, the heart ceases to beat, and remains with all its cavities flaccid, as long as the stimulation is continued. If the current be very feeble, the action of the heart will recommence after a short interval, even if the passage of the current be continued ; if very powerful, the inhibition will continue after the current has been removed. A current of sufficient strength may permanently arrest the heart's action. These effects may be brought about by reflex as well as by direct stimulation of the vagus. Thus, if a frog's foot be suddenly crushed, the heart ceases to beat for a moment, after which it acts for a short time more forcibly than before. This reflex inhibition is still more marked if the terminal branches of the vagus be directly stimulated. In dogs and rabbits sudden death has frequently been observed as a consequence of injury done to the larynx or trachea during an experiment. These observations may be applied directly to man with the addition that in the human subject mental emotions frequently form the afferent impulse. Sudden death fi-om shock has been recorded as the result of slight blows on the epigastrium, or of drinking ice-cold water, in both which cases a sudden stimulus is applied to the terminal branches of the pneumogastric nerve ; and some sudden deaths under chloroform have been supposed to be due to reflex inhibition of the heart from the stimulation of the nerves of the trachea by too strong a dose of the aneesthetic. Shock with. General Exhaustion of the Nervous Centres, Collapse or Torpid Shock, is the form commonly met with after severe injuries and operations. No doubt at the moment of infliction of the injury cardiac inhibition takes place as above described, but this cannot explain all the phenomena of shock as usually met with in surgical practice. In fact, in extreme shock, the cardio-inhibitory centre seems to be exhausted, and the pulse, though feeble, is more rapid than natural. The symptoms of shock vary according to the severity of the injury, the importance of the part injured, and the nervous susceptibility of the sufferer. When the injury is not severe, does not implicate important parts, or occurs in an individual of strong nerve, the symptoms are slight and passing. But if the injury be very severe, if it affect a vital part, or if the sufferer be of excessive nervous susceptibility, the phenomena are much more marked. In such cases, the sufferer becomes pale, cold, faint, and trembling ; the pulse IS small and fluttering ; the respiration is shallow and feeble ; there is great mental depression, the disturbed state of mind revealing itself in the countenance, and in feebleness or incoherence of speech and thought ; the surface becomes covered with a cold sweat; the sphincters may be relaxed. In severe shock, the temperature commonly falls to about 97° Fahr. in the adult. In the young, the fall is less ; in the aged, it is greater. I have several times found it below 95° Fahr. in the mouth and axilla, and Wagstaffe has met with cases in which recovery followed a fall of temperature amounting to four degrees. In fatal cases a fall of six degrees has been observed. These symptoms commonly set in immediately on the receipt of the injury. In some cases, however, there is an interval of tune between the infliction of the injury and the appearance of the shock ; this is more particularly the case in persons