EXCISION OF THE EYEBALL. 823 with hot boric lotion, and the use of atropine and cocaine drops. A bandage should be worn until the repair of the wound is complete. Occasionally a small corneal wound or abrasion becomes infected and takes on an unhealthy action. An ulcer results, which tends to spread on the cornea, first in one direction and then in another (serpiginous ulcer). Pus m the anterior chamber (hypopyon) and iritis are very frequent accompaniments of this form of ulceration. Treatment must be directed to the arrest of the process of ulceration, and this can as a rule be best done by the application of the actual cautery to the spreading margin. Sympathetic Ophthalmia.—A perforation of one eye by wound or ulcer- ation is occasionally followed by a destructive form of inflammation in the other eye. This so-called " sympathetic ophthalmia " affects primarily the ciliary body and iris, and though often insidious in its onset, tends to cause severe damage or destruction of sight. It is especially likely to follow perforating wounds of the "dangerous area " or those involving the iris (p. 821). The interval which may elapse between the injury of one eye and the onset of inflammation in the other varies greatly, but is probably never less than two weeks. The pathology of sympathetic ophthalmia is doubtful, but the condition probably results from the extension of some specific micro-organism from one eye to the other along the lymph channels of the optic nerves. It is the possibiUty of its occurrence which gives such a grave importance to the decision whether to preserve or excise a wounded eye ; and for the same reason, an eye containing a foreign body can seldom be left with safety. Sympathetic inflammation is sometimes preceded by a condition known as si/mjjatfietic irritation-, the eye is the seat of neuralgic pain, is intolerant of light and tires readily in attempts to read or do near work. Amongst the earliest signs of sympathetic ophthalmia are turbidity of the aqueous with the deposit of fine dots on the posterior surface of the cornea (keratitis punctata) ; alteration in the colour of the iris and defective action of the pupil ; deep injection of the ciliary region of the sclerotic ; haziness of the vitreous ; and neuro-retinitis. These conditions may be recovered from, but as a rule the inflammation of the iris and other structures progresses until sight is destroyed. Treatmmt.—The onset of sympathetic irritation is an indication for the immediate excision of the exciting eye. If the signs of sympathetic ophthalmia are present the exciting eye, if blind, should be excised, but if it still retains any power of useful vision, this should not be done as this eye may eventually prove the better of the two. In any case excision of the exciting eye seldom has any marked effect upon the inflammation of the sympathising eye ; and this in spite of the fact that if done sufficiently early the operation would have altogether prevented it. The constitutional treatment usually adopted consists in the administration of mercury, which is known to be of undoubted utility in other forms of iritis. Atropine should be used locally, and the application of leeches to the temple relieves the pain. Both eyes should be kept bandaged. Excision of the Eye-ball.—This is under favourable conditions a simple operation, but some difficulty may be met with if the globe is collapsed, or if the surrounding tissue is adherent from previous inflammation. The instruments required are a speculum, fixation forceps, strabismus hook, a pair of small blunt-pointed scissors for dividing the conjunctiva and muscles,