HOSPITAL GANGRENE: TREATMENT. 935 application of the caustic, the parts may be dressed with carbolic oil, terebene and oil, or some moist antiseptic dressing. The German Surgeons, who until recently had unusual opportunities of studying this affection, mostly preferred chloride of zinc. Konig recommends the following treatment. The sloughs having been cleared away, the surrounding skin must be washed with carbolic acid lotion (1 in 20), or chloride of zinc (20 gr. to 33). Some dry chloride of zinc is then moistened with water till it dissolves into an oily liquid ; cotton- wool soaked in this is laid on the raw surface, and pushed into any irregular hollows or cavities of the wound, and allowed to lie there for from five to twenty minutes, according to the severity of the case. It is then removed, and some efficient form of antiseptic dressing applied. The pain is usually severe, and a hypodermic injection of morphia should be given to relieve it. The slough formed by the chloride of zinc will separate in from three to ten days, leaving a healthy granulating surface beneath, which may be treated on ordinary principles. In military practice, in which alone it is probable that hospital gangrene will be met with in the future, chloride pf zinc is by far the most convenient caustic, as it is carried in the solid state, while fuming nitric acid is dangerous and difficult to transport. Should arterial hemorrhage occur, it may be arrested by the application of a ligature to the bleeding point; but if this do not hold, as will probably be the case owing to the softened state of the tissues, the actual cautery must be applied ; or the limb must be removed if all other means fail. In some cases, though the sloughing is checked at one part of the sur- face, it has a tendency to spread at another. "When this is the case, it may be necessary to apply the caustic or cautery repeatedly. In other instances, the sloughing cannot be stopped, but opens large arteries, and destroys the greater part of the soft tissues of a limb ; and then it may be a question whether amputation should be performed during the spread of the disease, or the patient left to die of hsemorrhage or exhaustion. Such a contingency is not of common occurrence ; yet it may happen and the operation be successful as appears from the following case, though there would necessarily be great danger of a recurrence of the disease in the stump. The wife of a butcher applied at the Hospital, with a slight wound of the forearm, inflicted by a foul hook. lb was dressed in the ordinary way, but in the course of a few days she returned with extensive sloughing phagedena of the part. She was imme- diately admitted, and the disease was arrested by the energetic employment of the local treatment above described ; not, however, until after considerable destruction of the tissues on the inside of the forearm had taken place. She left the Hospital before the wound Avas completely cicatrized, and returned in a few days with a fresh attack of the disease, more extensive and severe than the first; this time the process could not be permanently stopped, either by the actual cautery or by nitric acid. The radial artery was opened and required ligature, and the whole of the soft parts, from the wrist to the elbow, were totally disorganized, and the bones exposed. There was now very severe con- stitutional disturbance, and the case was evidently fast hastening to a fatal termination. In these circumstances I amputated the arm midway between the shoulder and the elbow ; and, notwithstanding that the local disease was progressing at the time of the operation, and that the constitutional disturb- ance was very great, the patient having a pulse of 160 to 170, at which it continued for more than a fortnight, she made a good recovery. To