DISLOCATIONS OF PATELLA. directed inwards ; the patient walks fairly well, but with a peculiar rolling or " waddling " gait. Treatment.—If the patient walks well, nothing is needed, beyond in some cases the use of a properly constructed support. This should consist of a padded metal belt encircling the pelvis between the trochanter and the iliac crest, and having a moulded leather cap to fit the upper end of the femur ; from this a steel rod passes up to the armpit and carries a crutch by which part of the weight of the body is transmitted to the displaced bone. Adams, following the original suggestion of Pravaz, has endeavoured to reduce the upward displacement of the femur by prolonged extension applied in the recumbent position ; whilst Barwell has divided the adductor and other muscles with the same object. Hoffa and Konig have endeavoured to con- struct a cotyloid cavity by turning down flaps of periosteum and bone from the surface of the ihum. It seems, however, that these and other severe measures which have been recommended, are unnecessary in the majority of cases. When, however, the displacement is such as seriously to interfere with the power of walking, extension, with perhaps the division of muscles, may be practised with advantage. Dislocations of the Patella are not frequently met with. They may, however, occur in four directions, \\z., oul(vanU, inwards, edgewise ov vertically, and upwards. 1. The dislocation Outwards is the most common variety of the accident ; the bone being thrown upon the outer side of the external condyle of the femur, with its axis directed somewhat backwards and downwards, so that the inner margin is directed forwards. The knee is flattened in front, and is broader than usual ; the patella can be felt in its new situation, and the nmscles which form the quadriceps extensor are rendered tense, more especially the vastus interuus ; the leg is sometimes extended, but more frequently the knee is slightly flexed. This accident usually happens from sudden muscular contraction, especially in persons who are knock-kneed. In some cases it has been occasioned by direct violence driving the bone out of its position. Most frequently, the patella is only partially displaced outwards, with some rotation of the bone in the same direction. Holthouse has recorded a case of congenital dislocation of the patella out- wards, in a boy aged ssven. The right patella was so displaced that its inner articular facet rested on the outer condyle, and when the knee was flexed the dislocation became complete. There was no inclination inwards of either knee. The mother alleged that the condition had existed from birth, and that at first both tnees were afi"ected. The boy could run and jump as well as other children. 2. The dislocation Inwards is very rare ; Malgaigne could find record of only one case of the kind. In these lateral dislocations. Reduction may be efi'ected by laying the patient on his back, bending the thigh on the abdomen, and. raising the\g so as to relax the extensor nmscle.s. The Surgeon then, by pressing down that edo-e of the patella which is furthest from the middle of the joint, raises the olher edge, which, being tilted over the condyles, is immediately drawn into position by the action of the extensors. In a case, recently in University College Hospital, of dislocation of the patella outwards associated with genu valgum, Macewen's operation for the VOL. I. z z