868 INJURIES OF THE CHEST. as the pericardium becomes distended with fluid, Avhen there will be increased dulness on percussion, with a weak impulse and elevation of the heart's apex. By auscultation the heart sounds will be found to be feeble and muffled, espe- cially at the apex. To these symptoms may possibly be added evidences of endocardial inflammation. Of these consecutive inflammatory complications and of their consequences the patient will most probaljly die, though perhaps at a remote period and after prolonged suffering. EuPTURE OF THE Heart FROM EXTERNAL VIOLENCE, without penetrating wound of the chest, is not of frequent occurrence. Gamgee has, however, collected 22 pul)lished cases of this accident. On analysing these he finds that, in at least one half of the cases, the pericardium was intact; 12 of the ruptures w^ere on the right, 10 on the left side. The right ventricle was ruptured m 8, and the left in 3 cases ; whereas the left auricle was torn in 7, and the right only in 4 instances. Death is usually almost instantaneous, though there are instances on record in which the patient made some exertion after the rupture had taken place, and even lived for several hours. In a case of rupture of the right auricle recorded by Rust, the patient survived fourteen hours. In most of the recorded cases, the injury occasioning the I'upture was directly applied to the region of the heart. But instances are not wanting in which this organ has been found ruptured through one or both ventricles or in one of the auricles, without any evidence of direct injury in the cardiac region—the patient having fallen upon his head or shoulders, or having merely been thrown forcibly to the ground with serious injury to the lower extremities. In some of these cases, there is reason to believe that the rupture was produced by the violence of the contractions of the heart, under the influence of great mental emotion or fear. The only case that has occurred in my practice was that of a man brought into the Hospital dead, having fallen from the top of a cart on to his right shoulder. On examination, the liver was found exten- sively torn, in fact smashed, and the pericardium was distended with blood- there being a triangular ragged aperture at the anterior pnrt of the left auri- cular appendage, through which it had escaped. Wounds of the Aorta and Vena Cava are usually as immediately fatal as those of the heart itself. In this respect, they resemble wounds of the auricles rather than those of the ventricles. Heil has, however, recorded a case in which the patient lived for a twelvemonth, after receiving a stab that penetrated the ascending aorta. Wound of the Thoracic Duct is very rare. It has occurred during an attempt to ligature the first part of the left subclavian artery, in removal of tumours, and in stabs above the clavicle or in the chest. The chief symptom is a constant draining away of chyle. The injury has been almost invariably fatal. Bradley has collected and published the following six cases wdiich well illustrate the characters of the injury: — " Hoffmann's first case was that of a woman wounded through the left side with a knife. Following the wound there was a copious discharge of spon- taneously coagulating fluid, which was observed to be milky during digestion, and clear while the patient was fasting. In his second case, the escape of chyle followed the opening of an abscess of the posterior mediastinum. Monro relates a case where the thoracic duct w^as wounded by a stab ; the lymph escaped externally and also into the pleural cavity, interfering with the heart's action. Guilfort's case is of a similar nature. Bonnet gives the history of a