TUMOURS, 1028 polypoid form. They frequently calcify and occasionally, as above stated, soften, forming enormous cysts. B. Neuroma. Trne Neuroma. Nervous Tumour.—The term"neuroma" is applied clinically to any tumour growing on a nerve, whether it be a fibroma, myxoma, sarcoma, or true neuroma. The term should strictly be limited to those rare tumours in which there is an actual new growth of nervous tissue. Neuromata composed of grey matter (non-medullated fibres and ganglionic tissue) have been described, but they are so infinitely rare that they need no further mention here. The vast majority of true neuromata are composed of bundles of medullated or white nerve fibres, interlacing with each other, or sometimes rolled up into masses, and separated by connective tissue, more or less rich in small cells. True neuromata occur only in connection with nerves. As examples may be mentioned the bulb which forms on the central end of a divided nerve or on the nerve in a stump ; the latter is called an " amputation neuroma." True neuromata occur also without previous injury of the nerve. They are then frequently maltiple. They cannot be diagnosed from other firm tumours of nerves. They are sometimes painful and tender, and sometimes not. The most characteristic sign of any tumour seated on a nerve is, that when the nerve upon which it is seated is put on the stretch by the position of the part, the tumour is almost immovable in a direction parallel to the course of the nerve, while it is more or less freely movable in the transverse direction. True neuromata are always non-malignant, and should not be interfered with unless they give rise to serious inconvenience from pain. A peculiar and very rare form of tumour has been described under the name of plexiform neuroma. It consists of a group of small nerves the terminal twigs of which are thickened by the growth of new fibrous tissue, convoluted and twisted upon one another and bound together by areolar tissue. If unravelled the separate cords present a varicose nodular appearance. According to Bruns, the tumour is partly composed of new nerve fibres. It is most commonly met with in the face and neck, and may be congenital. 0. Angioma. Nsbvus. Vascular Tumour. — Under the name of angiomata are included only such tumours as are composed of vascular tissue of new growth, and not such swellings as arise from the dilatation of pre- existing vessels. The so-called cirsoid aneurism, or aneurism by anastomosis, being "supposed to be due chiefly to a dilatation of pre-existing arteries, although doubtless accompanied by some new formation of vessels, is not usually included amongst angiomata, nor are the swelKngs formed by con- voluted masses of varicose veins. True angiomata are usually divided into two classes :—the plexiform angioma or telangiectasis, and the cavernous angioma. The plexiform angioma is composed of a mass of tortuous and dilated capillaries bound together by connective tissue (Fig, 369). The blood-vessels comprising it are normal in structure. This forms the ordinary superficial ntevus," mother's mark," or " port-wine stain." It is, probably, always congenital. The cavernous angioma, or erectile tumour, resembles in structure the corpus cavernosum penis, being made up of spaces, communicating freely with each other. The walls of the spaces are composed of fibrous tissue, and are lined with an endothelium resembling that of a vein. These tumours are sometimes distinctly circumscribed, and enclosed in a loose capsule of con- nective tissue; in other cases they are diffuse. They are sometimes congenital,