INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 340 operates ; and also that it be not a mere hmited slough, but sufficiently exten- sive to jeopardise the patient's life. 7. In cases in which spreading gangrene attacks the wound early, amputa- tion is the only hope of saving the patient. The question as to the jt?mo^? at which amputation should be performed in contused wounds from gun-shot will be considered later on. It may be gene- rally stated, that the sooner a condemned limb is taken off, the less is the suffering, and the better the chance of recovery of the patient; and that, con- sequently, primary amputation should be practised in these cases. By reference to the tables on pp. 8!), DO, it will be seen that, although the average mortality for all primary operations is less than the average mortality for all secondary operations, yet primary amputation through the thigh is more fatal than secondary amputation in the same region. Notwithstanding this, it is abso- lutely necessary in many cases to remove the injured limb within the first twenty-four hours. The higher rate of mortahty of primary thigh-amputations may be due chiefly to the greater severity of the injuries that manifestly require immediate operation than of those in which it is thought justifiable to attempt to save a limb ; and certainly, of the two alternatives—of leaving a badly crushed and mangled limb until suppuration has set in, and thus exposing the patient to all the risks of gangrene, erysipelas, pyaemia, &c., or removing it at once—the latter is the one attended with least danger to the patient. A limb is sometimes so hopelessly crushed that any attempt at its preserva- tion must be useless ; whilst at the same time the patient is so severely injured internally, or is so prostrated by shock, that amputation as a formal operation would be as useless as it would be unjustifiable, the patient having at most but a few hours to live. In these circumstances the best thing that can be done is to put on a tourniquet, partly to check haemorrhage, and partly to restrain the painful quivering of the muscles, and to wrap up the maimed limb. Should the limb have been nearly detached—merely hanging on by shreds of the lacerated muscles—these may be divided, and its removal thus effected without additional shock or suffering. Brush-Burn.—This is a peculiar injury occasioned by rapid and severe friction of the surface of the body, so that the skin becomes abraded and the subjacent tissues somewhat contused. It is not unfrequently produced in the manufacturing districts, by the surface of the body coming into contact with straps or portions of machinery in rapid motion. It has also been known to occur in consequence of a person slipping and sliding rapidly down a long and steep Alpine snow-slope. lu this injury the integument is, as it were, ground off, and the areolar and aponeurotic structures converted into an eschar. The Treatment presents nothing special, but should be conducted on ordinary principles. The separation of the eschars must be facilitated by moist anti- septic appHcations, and the resulting sores will heal by granulation. STABS AND PUNCTUKED WOUNDS. These wounds, made by narrow sharp-pointed instruments, vary greatly in extent, from the prick of a needle in the finger to a sword-thrust through the body. Not unfrequently punctured wounds are somewhat contused, being made by a triangular or wedge-like weapon, as a bayonet or lance-blade.