CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. 235 Pressure by means of well-applied bandages, elastic webbing, or strapping, is of essential service m supporting the feeble vessels in congestive mtlam- mations. In many cases pressure may be advantageously conjoined witii absorbents and rubefacients, as mercurial and camphor liniments, or tne plaster of mercury and ammoniacum. This treatment, by removing conges- tion, and promoting the absorption of inflammatory effusion, is especial)} useful in chronic forms of inflammation accompanied by thickening of parts, as in the joints and testes. CATARRHAL INFLAMMATION. Catarrh or catarrhal inflammation is a form of the process of inflammation affecting mucous membranes and other epithelium-covered surfaces._ All these are liable like other structures to traumatic inflammations of the ordinary type, in which, as a consequence of the action of some irritant, the vessels dilate, the circulation is retarded, the white corpuscles migrate and the liquor sanguinis exudes, and the functional activity of the original cells is suspended or per- manently abolished. The peculiarity of the catarrlial form, liowever, consists in the fact that, although the vessels are dilated and exudation of blood-plasma and even the abundant escape of white corpuscles is taking place, yet the epithelium continues to exist and perform its function, and in most cases its cells multiply with unnatural rapidity. Catarrh may arise from the direct apphcation of an irritant to the surface of the mucous membrane, as m the case of decomposing urine irritating the bladder or of gonorrhoeal pus acting on the urethra. At first sight it seems difficult to explain why in these cases the vessels of the cgrium and the submucous tissue should show signs of damage, by their giving exit to an abundant exudation and by the white corpuscles passing through their walls, while the epithelium is comparatively uninjured, showing signs rather of stimulation than of impaired function. It must not be forgotten, however, that surface-epithelium is a structure which pos- sesses in a high degree the power of resisting external injurious influences; and it is quite conceivable, therefore, that a cause which exerts no more than a stimulating action on the epithelium may, if it penetrate to the parts beneath, give rise to the phenomena of inflammation. In other cases the cause of catarrh is not so clear, as when a patient is attacked by bronchitis, catarrhal nephritis, or cystitis, as the result of " catch- ing cold." In these cases it is probable that the contraction of the cutaneous vessels causes hypertemia of the internal organs, but hypersemia alone is not sufficient to cause catarrh; probably the inflammation is due in part, at least in the case of the lung and kidney, to increased work thrown upon these organs in the elimination of those products of tissue-change which should be given off by the skin. Our knowledge is not, however, as yet sufficient to explain rationally the origin of all catarrhal inflammation. The changes in the affected membrane depend on the degree of the process. In the mildest form there is some swelling due to exudation of serum. This partly distends the loose submucous tissue, and drains off' by the lymphatics, and partly flows away from the surface of the membrane. At the same time the cells of the epithelium multiply more quickly than natural, and many are loosened and come away with the discharge. If this loss of epithelium is very considerable the process is described as desquamaiive catarrh. In all