TREATMENT OF SPINAL INJURIES. 801 knowledge, and he must endeavour alike to avoid the serious errors of too quickly assigning- base motives to a genuine suflFerer or of being misled by the plausible story and clever deceit of the malingerer. Syphilitic affections of the cord and its memlranes may be confounded with the after-effects of spinal injury, whilst the disease may itself be called into activity by the injury. The antecedent history, and perhaps the concomitant evidence of con- stitutional syphilis in one of its minor forms, will determine the diagnosis. The Prognosis of spinal injuries is a question of extreme interest from a medico-legal point of view and is often involved in much difficulty. So far as life is concerned it is only in cases of severe and direct IqIows upon the spine, causing intraspinal hgemorrhage or actual laceration of the cord, that a speedily fatal termination is to be feared. Death may rarely occur at a later date from inflammation of the cord and its membranes, or still more rarely at a remote period from progressive development of structural changes. In considering the probability of complete recovery it may be said that this is looked for after simple concussion and in cases of spinal sprain however severe. The subsequent development of diseased conditions of the cord in these cases is extremely rare, but should they occur the prognosis will always be very unfavourable. In forming an opinion as to the patient's probable future state, it is of far less importance to look to the early severity of the^ symptoms than to their progressive and insidious development. In all cases in which the symptoms produced are recognized as " functional" and unconnected with structural changes in the cord or its membranes, a hopeful prognosis may be given if suitable treatment is carried out faithfully by the patient and his friends. It does undoubtedly happen that in certain cases, happily few, the general nervous shock to which a patient has been exposed ni a railway accident may leave permanent traces in an alteration of the temperament and the nervous state generally. Treatment.—In the Early Stages of a case of Injury of the Spine, the injured part must be given complete and absolute rest. The importance of rest cannot be over-estimated. Without it, no other treatment is of the slightest avail ; and it would be as irrational to attempt to treat an injured brain or a sprained ankle without rest, as to try to benefit a patient suffering from a severe concussion or wi-ench of the spine unless he be kept quiet. In order to secure rest efficiently, the] patient should be made to lie prone on a couch. In the prone position, the spine is the highest part of the body thus passive venous congestion and determination of blood, which are favoured when the patient lies on his back, are entirely prevented. Again, the absence of pressure upon the back is a great comfort when that part is unduly sensitive and tender, and is a source of additional safety to the patient if he be paraplegic, by lessening the liability to the formation of bed-sores Lastly the prone position presents this advantage over the supine, that it allows the ready application of local treatment to the spine. In some instances complete and absolute rest may be secured to the injured spine by the application of a gutta-percha case to the back, embracing the shoulders, nape of the neck and back of the head ; or by letting the patient wear a stiff collar, so as to give support to the neck. In these cases Sayre's plaster of Paris jacket will be found of the utmost service. It secures more perfect and continuous rest than any other apparatus. In cases of simple concussion a period of complete rest is the only treat- VOL. I. 3 F