ABSOIiHA IlLE LIU A TUBES, 439 operations, but I soon abandoned it, as I found great inconveniences resulting from its use. If the ends of the wire were left out of the wound, the noose became embedded in a mass of plastic matter, did not separate, and, after several weeks, required considerable force to detach and disconnect it. If the ends were cut short, the sides of the wound healed over them : they became encapsuled, but were by no means innocuous, in some cases giving rise to severe neuralgia of the stump by irritation of neighbouring nerves ; in others, after some weeks, causing circumscribed abscesses to form. The employment of Ligatures made of Materials that admit of Absorption in the wound was long ago a favourite idea with many Surgeons, and is one on which much experimental ingenuity has at various times been expended. With this view, it was proposed to substitute ligatures made of animal substances for the ordinary threads made of hem]). Silk thread cut short and left in the wound was used by Lawrence in 181;"), and at first with success, uuion of the wound taking place in four to six days, without suppu- ration. But other Surgeons failed in this, and Lawrence himself was soon compelled to give it up from Avant of good results in his subsequent cases. Wardrop substituted silkworm gut made into a fine cord, but with equally unsatisfactory results. Catgut was used by Astley Cooper as a material that was more likely to dissolve, or to be absorbed, than silk in any shape. The first cases in which it was employed as a ligature were full of promise. In one, a patient aged eighty, the wound healed in four days, and in another in twenty, and in neither did the noose of the ligature reappear. But other Surgeons failed to achieve this success; the catgut was found to be too weak, and the dis- tinguished author of the practice could not liimself maintain his first success with it, and eventually fell back on the ordinary hempen thread. Strips of deerskin were used by Jameson, of Philadelphia, and other American Surgeons about the same time ; probably in 1814, before I^awrence's or Cooper's experiments. They were found to answer better than either silk or catgut, being stronger, more elastic, and more readily soluble. These, however, also fell into disuse, for what reason does not clearly appear. Carbolised Catgut.—The use of catgut was revived by Lister, in connec- tion with his " Antiseptic Method " of dressing wounds, and experience has shown that, when properly prepared, it is a perfectly reliable material. Unprepared catgut, such as was used by Astley Cooper, is quite untrust- worthy. In warm blood-serum out of the body it softens and becomes pulpy and useless in about half an hour. Fm-ther than this, grave risk is incurred by the use of catgut which has not undergone some efficient antiseptic treat- ment ; thus Volkmann records a case in which anthrax appears to have been produced by a catgut ligature. The original mode of preparation of the gut, as described by Lister, is as follows : " It must be suspended lor some weeks in an emulsion of water, carbolic acid and oil, in which, after growing soft and opaque during the first few days, it gradually experiences an opposite change, and at length becomes again quite transparent, and is then little aflFected by water, and holds better when tied than waxed silk. The emulsion is best made by mixing one part of crystallised carbolic acid, dehquesced by means of water, with five parts of olive-oil. The very fine emulsion that results is placed in a covered jar, having a partition of glass or other material