APPLICATION OF THE LIGATURE. 431 the anastomosing vessels are very abundant, it would be saler to ligature the branch also close to the main trunk. Other things being equal, that part of the artery is to be chosen which is most superficial, and in relation with the fewest important structures. Thus the point selected in the carotid is above the omo-hyoid, and the superficial femoral is always, when possible, tied in preference to the popliteal. Having determined the point to Avhich the ligature is to be applied, the operator first makes an incision through the skin and fat to the deep fascia ; he then, by carefal dissection, exposes the sheath of the vessel, and finally opens the sheath and passes the aneurism needle between it and the external coat. The first incision is usually made in the course of the vessel ; for in most parts of the body the chief nerves, veins, and muscles run in the same line as the main artery. When, however, an incision in the line of the artery would injure important parts, the Surgeon must make an oblique or transverse wound, the direction being determined by the anatomical relations of the part. Thus in ligature of the brachial at the bend of the elbow, the incision is made across the line of the artery, in order to avoid the median basilic vein ; and in ligature of the external ihac it is made nearly parallel to Poupart's ligament to facilitate the retraction of the peritoneum in exposing the artery. In making the incision, the Surgeon is guided by some fixed Hue known as the ''directing or guiding line.''' In some cases this corresponds with the anatomical line of the artery, as in the operation for hgature of the anterior tibial; in others it is distinct from this, having reference rather to the structures which have to be turned on one side to expose the vessel. Thus in the operation for ligature of the carotid artery, the directing line for the first incision is the inner edge of the sterno-mastoid, while the line of the artery is from midway between the angle of the jaw and the mastoid process to the sterno-clavicular articulation. Both the anatomical line of the artery and the surgical directing line should be carefully studied and kept in mind. In making the first incision, the skin should be put on the stretch by the fingers of the left hand. The length of the incision will necessarily vary with the depth of the artery and with the amount of superficial fat ; but it must always be sufficient to give the operator a clear view of what he is doing in the deeper dissection. If the artery be superficial, or if there be parts of importance in its vicinity, the first incision should not penetrate deeper than the skin. But if the vessel be deeply seated and no parts of importance inter- vene, it may be carried at once through the subcutaneous areolar tissue, until the fascia is exposed. This must then be pinched up with the forceps, and opened by the edge of the scalpel laid horizontally (Fig. 132, p. 433). Through this opening a grooved director may then be passed, and the fascia incised upon it, without risk to subjacent parts ; or the fascia may be carefully divided by the method described on p. 44, Fig. 7. If the vessel be superficial, its sheath will come into view as soon as the deep fascia is divided, and the operator proceeds at once to clean the artery and to pass the ligature ; but if it be more deeply seated, the dissection must be con- tinued till the vessel is exposed. In carrying out the deeper dissection, the Surgeon is still guided by definite anatomical points, each of which must be made out in order, and clearly recognised. Malgaigne gave these the name of the rallying-2)oinis " of the operation, and laid down the following excel- lent rule : " The Surgeon should not at once set himself to look for the artery,