CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. under control. Race appears to exercise an influence on pain ; some of the native races of India appear to suffer far less than Europeans under surgical operations of a similar kind. There are, however, other conditions besides pain that influence the severity of shock. The sudden occurrence of a severe injury will cause a physical impression independently of any emotion or moral influence. The severity and continu- ance of the shock are usually proportionate to the gravity of the injury, either from its extent or from the importance of the part wounded. Thus, if the whole of a limb be torn away by a cannon-shot, or crushed by a railway train, the shock will be severe from the extent of the mutilation ; whilst, on the other hand, if a man be shot by a pistol-bullet through the abdomen, though the extent of the injury be trifling and only a few drops of blood escape, yet the shock will be severe, owing to the importance of the part injured. The Surgeon not unfre(|uently employs this fact as an accessory means of diagnosis. Thus, if a man break his leg, and at the same time strike his abdomen, and the shock be very serious and long continued, the probability is that some severe injury has been inflicted upon an internal organ ; injury of the viscera occasion- ing more severe and continued shock than a wound of a less vital part. The diagnosis of shock is usually easy, but it is often difficult to determine after a severe injury how much of the patient's condition is due to loss of blood and how much to shock. Restlessness, deep sighing respiration, a sense of dyspnoea, and a somewhat abundant perspiration, are signs indicat- ing that the patient is suffering to a great extent from loss of blood. If the patient is half unconscious and lies perfectly still, with a very small fluttering pulse and regular shallow respiration, it is probable that his condition is due chiefly to shock. The sickness produced by an ani^sthetic may closely resemble shock, but it soon ends in actual vomiting, after which the pulse improves and the pallor diminishes. During an operation, however, this condition often causes the Surgeon great anxiety, which is only relieved by the commencement of vomiting. Shock with Excitement, or Erethitic Shock.—Three separate con- ditions seeui to have been described under this name. First, a state of shock not sufficiently severe to render the patient insensible to severe persistent pain, as from an extensive burn or scald. There is, then, restlessness instead of the perfect quiet of severe shock under ordinary conditions. If the shock be more intense the patient may show no signs of pain. One of the worst signs in severe burns of children is an apparently perfect freedom from pain. Secondly, the condition of restlessness, dyspnoea, and excitement from profuse hEemorrhage, combined with some degree of shock, has been described under the above name. Lastly, the term has been applied to cases in which the symptoms of traumatic fever manifest themselves before the exhaustion of the shock has passed away. The ordinary symptoms of fever are present, and amongst them delirium is often prominent. The pulse increases in frequency as the fever develops and at the same time its force becomes less. This condition very commonly terminates in death, apparently from exhaustion. Treatment of Shock.—If the shock be chiefly mental, the patient will usually rally speedily on being spoken to in a kind and cheering manner, or on having some stimulant administered. If the shock be more severe, and be the result of considerable injury, the patient should be laid in the recumbent