EFFECTS OF HEAT AND GOLD. 392 CHAPTER XIL EFFECTS OF HEAT AND COLD. BUBNS AND SCALDS. k Burn is the result of the application of a degree of heat sufficient to produce inflammation of the part upon which it acts, or even charring and complete disorganization of its tissues. A Scald is occasioned by the action of some hot fluid, giving rise to the same destructive effects, although the appearances produced are different. Local Efb'ECTS.—Burns and scalds vary greatly in the degree of destruc- tion of tissue to which they give rise : this variation depending partly upon the intensity of the heat, and partly upon the duration of its application. The sudden and brief application of flame to the surface causes but very slight damage to the cuticle, with some hyperemia of the skin. If the part be exposed for a longer time to the action of the flame, as when a woman's clothes take fire, the cutis itself may be destroyed ; and if the heat be still more intense, as when molten metal falls upon the body, the soft parts may be deeply charred, or the whole thickness of a limb destroyed. So, also, the effects of scalds vary greatly, not only according to the temperature of the liquid, but according to its character ; the more oleaginous and thick the fluid, the more severe, usually, will the scald be. These various effects of heat have been arranged by Dupuytren into six degrees. This is a classification of great practical importance, as the degree and character of the resulting cicatrix are dependent on the depth to which the burn penetrates. In the first degree, the application of heat has been momentary. It is followed by redness and pain. There is dilatation of the vessels, simple hyperemia, but no destruction of tissue ; and consequently there is no result- ing cicatrix. The constant repetition of a burn of this degree may, however, cause a disturbance of healthy nutrition. Thus in old people who sit con- stantly before the fire or over charcoal foot-warmers, the skin of the legs, especially in front, becomes pigmented and indurated, as a consequence of the frequently recurring hyperemia induced by the heat. Ulceration readily occurs fi'om slight causes in the damaged integument. In the second degree the injury done by the heat is suflficicnt to cause dilata- tion of the vessels, retarded blood-flow, and exudation. The corneous layer of the cuticle is loosened and raised from the Malpighian layer by the exudation from the vessels of the inflamed cutis, and thus vesicles or blisters are formed. When these burst, the surface left beneath is still completely covered with epithelium. There is no loss of substance beyond that of the corneous layer of the cuticle. The raw surface left may discharge a little puriform fluid, the cells which it contains being partly young epithelium from the Malpighian layei- and partly leucocytes which have wandered to the surface. Although