715 CONTUSIONS OF THE SCALP. INJURIES OF REGIONS. CHAPTER XXIV. INJURIES OF THE HEAD. Injuries of the Head are among the most important subjects that can engage the Surgeon's attention. Their importance is derived not so much from the injury of the scalp and skull, as from the implication of the brain in many cases directly, and in others indirectly and remotely. In consequence of this, it is of the first moment in practice to study these injuries as a whole, with special regard to the affections of the encephalon that are produced by them, and from which they derive the greater part of their interest. INJURIES OF THE SCALP. Contusions of the Scalp are of common occurrence, and present some peculiarities. However severe the contusion may be, the scalp seldom sloaghs. This is owing to the great vascularity and consequent vitality of the integu- ments. In many cases, the contusion is followed by considerable extravasation of blood, raising up the scalp into a soft semi-fluctuating tumour. It occa- sionally happens, that this extravasation gives rise to the supposition that fracture exists, owing to the edge of the contusion feeling hard, whilst the centre is soft, causing an apparent depression of the subjacent bone. In some cases, indeed, this deceptive feeling will occur without any considerable extravasation of blood, the depressed centre being due to the compression of the scalp by the blow that has been inflicted upon it. This I have seen occasionally in children, in whom the scalp is soft. The difficulty of dis- tinguishing between such an extravasation and a depression of bone is often so great as to mislead the most experienced Surgeons. Usually it can be effected by feeling the smooth bone at the bottom of the soft central depression. If seen soon after the accident the raised edge can usually be made to melt away under the finger by firm pressure, till the solid bone can be clearly felt beneath, at the same level as that in the centre of the swelhng. But in case of doubt, if symptoms of compression of the brain are present, it will be safer to make an incision, and examine directly the state of the bone itself. The Treatment of contusion of the scalp is A ery simple ; the continuous application of ev;iporating lotions being usually sufficient for the removal of all effusion. As a rule no attempt should be made to remove the blood by puncturing the swelling, but if the amount is considerable, and more especially if it coagulates at the circumference, leaving a collection of fluid in the centre,