INJURIES OF THE THROAT. 838 children of the poor, who, being in the habit of drinking cold water from the spout of a kettle, inadvertently attempt to take a draught from the same source when the water is boiling. The hot hquor is not swallowed, but, though immediately ejected, it scalds the inside of the mouth and pharynx, giving rise to great inflammation, which, extending to the glottis, will produce oedema of it, and thus speedily destroy life by suffocation. In three cases which I examined after death, there was no sign of inflammation below the glottis, though the hps of this aperture were greatly swollen ; and this I believe to be invariably the case. The accident always reveals itself by very evident signs ; the interior of the mouth looks white and scalded, the chiid complains of great pain, and difficulty of breathing soon sets in, expiration being comparatively easy, while inspiration is obstructed by the swollen arytaeno- epiglottidean folds falling together over the glottis in a valve-like manner. This condition, unless efficiently relieved, may terminate in speedy suff'ocation. In those cases in which these parts have been similarly injured by the flame produced by the explosion of gas or of fire-damp being sucked into the mouth, the same conditions present themselves. In the Treatment of this injury, the main point to attend to is to subdue the inflammation before it involves the glottis to a dangerous extent. With this view, leeches should be freely applied to the neck, and hot fomentations put on. If symptoms of dyspnoea have set in, the oedematous parts should be freely scarified with a curved bistoury, sheathed by wrapping adhesive plaster round it nearly to its point. If this be not at hand, much may be done by means of the finger nail, notched so that it may tear the mucous membrane. The child should be placed in a tent-bed, and the steam-spray used. Should these measures fail to give relief, intubation or tracheotomy must be performed without delay. Intubation is likely to be attended with some difficulty, owing to the swollen condition of the part, so that the Surgeon who is not skilled in this procedure had better resort at once to tracheotomy. A tube must be inserted and retained until the swelling about the glottis has subsided. In the majority of the cases, however, that have fallen under my observation, in which this operation has been performed, the issue has been a fatal one, from the speedy supervention of broncho-pneumonia. Bernard Pitts has collected seventy-eight cases of this injury, treated in St. Thomas's Hospital. Of these sixty-three recovered—seven after tracheotomy, one after intubation followed by tracheotomy, and three after intubation alone. In twelve of the fifteen fatal cases tracheotomy was performed, the operation having been preceded by intubation in three. ASPHYXIA. Asphyxia may arise from various causes. The following classification is derived from a table by Harley :— I. Mechanical Impediment to the Entrance of Air into the Lungs. A. From Accident: either (1) external, as in pressure on the trunk pre- venting expansion of the chest; pressure on the throat ; smothering ; injury •of the spinal cord causing paralysis of the respiratory muscles ; penetrating wound of the chest, admitting air ; or (2) internal, as in obstruction of the fauces or larynx by foreign bodies, or in constriction of these parts from the application of irritating fluids. B. From Disease; as in pressure on the