SPECIAL FB AC TUBES. 6i4 evident that these cases cannot be distinguished during Hfe from impacted fractures of any other part of the neck. The ireaiment is the same as that of extracapsular impacted fracture. Extracapsular Fracture of the xTeck of the Thigh-Bone commonly occurs at an earlier age than, the injury which has just been described, but it is met with also at advanced periods of life. It is the result of direct violence to the hip, and is equally common in both sexes. In young subjects it occurs only as a consequence of great violence, but in old people it may result from a simple fall on the hip. This fracture may be of two kinds : the unimpacied or the impacted. In both cases the neck of the bone is commonly broken at, or immediately outside, the insertion of the capsule of the joint. The fracture is almost invariably comminuted when it occurs in a young subject or as the result of great violence. Indeed, I have never seen a case of this kind in which the great trochanter was not either detached or splintered into several fragments. In many instances the lesser trochanter is detached, and the upper end of the shaft injured (Fig. 210). This splintering of the troch- anter is due to the same violence that breaks the bone forcing the lower end of the neck into the Fig. 210.—Simple Extracapsu- caucellous structurc of this proccss, and thus, by a the^™XBra^^ wedge-like action, breaking it into fragments. When ment of the Trochanter. the neck contiuues loclvcd in between these, we have the impacted form of fracture. In older subjects, however, whose bones are atrophied and softened by age, it is common to meet with extracapsular impacted fractures without any splintering of the trochanter. The Signs of extracapsular fracture vary according as it is simple or impacted ; but in both cases they partake of the general character of those of fracture within the capsule. The individual signs, however, present certain well-marked differences. The hip will usually be found truised and sivollen from extravasation of blood, often considerably so. In the unimpacted fracture, the crepitus is readily felt on laying the hand upon the trochanter, and moving the limb. The separate fragments into which the trochanter is splintered may occasionally be felt to be loose. The jjain is very severe, and greatly increased by any attempt at moving the joint, which to the patient is impossible. The eversion is usually strongly marked, and the position of the limb is characteristic of complete want of power in it. Inversion occurs more frequently in this fracture than in that within the capsule. Smith found that of 7 cases of inversion of the limb in fractures of the neck of the femur, 5 occurred in the extracapsular fracture ; and in 15 cases of intracapsular fracture, this condition was met with in 3. "When there is much comminution of the trochanter, the foot will sometimes remain in any position in which it is placed, but generally it has a tendency to rotate outwards. The shortening of the limb is never less than an inch and a quarter, and sometimes amounts to two inches and a half, or three inches.