THE SILICATE OF SODA BANDAGE. 541 then brought forwards and cut, so that each may overlap the middle line of the leg and sole by three-quarters of an inch. The limb is then laid on one side : and while the outer piece of flannel is held back, a layer of plaster of Paris of the consistence of thick cream is spread evenly, to the thickness^ of half an inch, over the inner piece, and. made to pass quite to the seam behind, and the line of junction of the sides of the inner piece in front. The outer piece is pressed over this before it sets, and should just reach the middle line in front and along the sole. When this has set, the limb is turned over, and the process is repeated on the other side. The pins may now be removed. The seam serves as a hinge ; and when the whole has set, the splint may be taken off, the edges of the plaster trimmed, and those of the inner piece of flannel cut so as to leave sufficient to turn over and stitch down on the outer piece. The splint is then readjusted and fixed by a bandage (Fig. 165). 4. Another mode of applying the plaster, which has been recommended by Croft, of St Thomas's Hospital, will be found very useful. Some common Fig. 105.—Bavarian Plaster Splint. house flannel or old blanket is cut into the form of lateral splints, and of such a size as almost to meet round the limb. Two of these must be cut for each side of the limb. The one which is to lie next the skin is then placed upon a table, with its inner side downwards; the other is well soaked in plaster of Paris and water of the consistence of thick cream, and immediately applied to it. The two are then taken up together and placed upon the limb ; those for the opposite side having been prepared in the same way are quickly applied, and the whole surrounded by a muslin bandage. The limb is to be held in position while the plaster sets. When all is solid the muslin bandage can be cut down the front of the limb, and the apparatus taken off whenever it is desirable to examine the fracture. In all cases in which the plaster bandage is used, there is danger of unsafe constriction of the limb after the setting of the plaster, either in consequence of the apparatus having been apphed too tightly, or of the inner bandao-e, which has been directly apphed, becoming tightened by the swelling of fhe limb within it. Hence great care must be taken for several days after the apphcation of the apparatus, to watch the limb carefully, and if signs of con- striction come on, such as pain, coldness, numbness, and oedema of the toes or fingers, it should be immediately cut up, re-adjusted or removed. No time should be lost in doing this, as the limb may have become gangrenous in patches, with little suffering to the patient or constitutional disturbance. The Silicate of Soda or "Water-glass Bandage is another very useful form of rigid apparatus. The materials required are a solution of silicate of