INJURIES OF NERVES. 491 CHAPTEK XVIII. .SPECIAL INJURIES OF NERVES, MUSCLES, AND TENDONS. INJUBIES OF NEBVES. Contusion.—Nerves are ofteu contused ; the injury producing a tingling sensation at their extremities, and pain at the part struck. These effects usually pa^s oif in the course of a few minutes or hours. If the blow have been sufficiently severe to cause haemorrhage amongst the fibres of the nerve, the symptoms may be more severe and persistent, and temporary paralysis of the parts supplied by the injured nerve may result. Most commonly sensation is merely impaired, even when the motor paralysis is complete. In hysterical women, the symptoms may last for a considerable period, and even slight contusions may give rise to very persistent neuralgia. Iti other cases the continuance of the symptoms appears to be due to the supervention of chronic neuritis (see p. 497). Strains.—Any movement, which stretches a nerve forcibly, may be slowly followed by the symptoms of chronic neuritis to be described later on (p. 497). This is most common in the nerves of the brachial plexus. CoMmESSiON.—This most commonly arises from the pressure of tumours or aneurisms, but it may be the result of injury; thus, the brachial plexus may be pressed on by the head of the humerus in a dislocation, the spinal nerves may be compressed at the intervertebral foramina in cases of fracture of the spine, and the fragments of bone in a fracture of a limb may press on contiguous nerves. Another common form is the so called crutch-palsy, resulting from the pressure of the upper end of the crutch upon the nerves of the brachial plexus ; a similar paralysis of the muscles of the front of the leg is not uncommonly met with, as the result of pressure on the external popliteal as it winds round the head of the fibula, from splints applied without sufficient padding ; and I have known of three cases in which the musculo- spiral nerve was paralysed fi'om the arm hanging over the edge of the table during a prolonged operation. In these cases sensation is httle, if at all, impaired. Nerves may also be compressed by the growth of callus from a fractured bone, or by the contraction of a scar. The effects of pressure are proportional to its severity and duration. The mildest effects are the numbness, tingling, and sense of weakness with which everyone is familiar as a consequence of pressure on the ulnar ner^^e from sleeping with the arm under the head. If it lasts for a sufficient length of time, and is sufficiently severe, complete loss of sensation and paralysis are produced in the parts supplied by the nerve pressed upon, followed by wasting and degeneration of the muscles. Such cases usually recover in time, if the cause be removed and the limb be afterwards treated by the methods described later on.