TREATMENT OF CANCER: EXCISION. 1081 not only the tumour but the surrounding tissues to some extent, even though apparently healthy, {h) The operation ought never to be performed in cases in ^yhich several malignant tumours exist in different parts of the body at the same time. Here the disease has evidently affected the constitution, and cannot be removed by any series of operations. In those very rare cases in which more than one primary carcinoma exists operation may, however, be undertaken if there is reasonable hope that each tumour can be completely removed, (c) If the cachexia be strongly marked, it is useless to remove the local affection, as probably some secondary visceral tumour is already forming. {d) If the tumour be of very rapid growth and soft, and its margin very ill- defined, it has probably infected the surrounding tissues so widely that it will speedily reappear in the cicatrix if removed, {e) If the whole of the affected organ cannot be taken away, as a bone, or if the skin or mucous membrane be so widely affected that it cannot be removed, or if lymphatic glands are enlarged which cannot be dissected out, it is useless to attempt the excision of the primary growth, as a speedy relapse will certainly ensue. (/) In the very chronic and indurated glandular cancers of old people, it is often well not to interfere, as in these cases the affection makes such slow progress that it does not in any way shorten life, whilst the operation might be attended with serious risk at an advanced age. 2. Doubtful Cases.—Those cases in which the result of an operation is extremely doubtful, but in Avhich no other means offer the slightest prospect of relief, have next to be considered. («) Mahgnant sarcomata of the eye, and cancers of the tongue, larynx, and testis, belong to this category ; for, though more likely to return than similar affections of any other part of the body, yet they may be fit cases for operation, inasmuch as in no other way has the patient the slightest chance of being relieved of his disease. (&) In cancers that are already ulcerated, the Surgeon may sometimes operate in order to give the patient ease from present suffering or perhaps with a view of prolonging life ; but he can have little expectation of effecting a permanent cure, (c) If the tumour be so large, or be so situated, that its removal cannot be undertaken without an operation so serious as to occasion in itself consider- able risk to life, the propriety of operating is always very doubtful. 3. Cases proper for Operation.—The cases in which an operation is, in my opinion, not only perfectly justifiable, but should be urged upon the patient, are those in which the disease has originated in a person otherwise in good health, and in whom there is so far no cachexy. In schirrous carcinoma, if the disease be slow in its progress, single, distinctly circumscribed, without adhesions to or implication of the skin or glands, and more especially if it be attended with much pain, or with immediate risk to life from any cause, and if the whole of the growth, together with a sufficient quantity of the neighbouring healthy tissues, in which it is imbedded, can be removed, the case may be looked upon as a fit one for operation. If the glands are affected to a limited degree, and only to such an extent that they can be removed without danger, the operation should still be urged on the patient, provided the general health be unimpaired. In encephaloid carcinoma, or soft malignant sarcomata, the rapidity of the growth need not deter the Surgeon from operating provided the whole primary tumour and the enlarged lymphatic glands, if present, can be removed ; early operation should be practised, with the view of prolonging life, if nothing more. In squamous carcinom.a the removal of the primary tumour with the