EFFECT OF INFLAMMATION ON THE TISSUES. 165 tion—so much so that he says "the essential and primordial element of a typical inflammation consists in a reaction of phagocytes against a noxious agent." This view may be correct as regards inflammation caused by an invading organism, but the simplest and most typical inflammation is that caused by mechanical violence, and here the process of cell emigration and exudation can hardly be regarded as defensive, as it does not take place till after the noxious agent has ceased to act. To regard the phagocytic action of leucocytes and other cells as the whole of inflammation seems to be taking too narrow a view of the process. In opposition to MetchnikoflP, Biichner and many others are of opinion that the amoeboid cells merely take into their substance organisms which are already dead, and while granting to the fullest extent the scavenging powers of the migrated cells, they deny their defensive action against invading organisms. Metchnikoff supports his views by a comparative study of the behaviour of motile cells under injury in all classes of animals, from the unicellular organisms to mammalia, and brings forward a large amount of evidence in favour of his views. The whole subject of phagocytosis as a defensive process will be considered again in the Chapter on Infective Diseases. Lastly, the leucocytes have been credited with the function of taking part in the formation of new tissue. Within a few years of Cohnheim's re-discovery of the migration of the colourless corpuscles this view was almost universally accepted. All the latest observations, however, tend to the opposite view, and the opinion most generally held now is that after having served their purpose as scavengers or as the first line of defence against invading organisms, they are themselves absorbed by other phagocytes derived from the original tissues, or pass back into the lymph stream. Whether migrated leucocytes can pro- liferate after leaving the vessels is also a disputed point, and one which must at present be considered as unsettled. The Tissues.—The effect of inflammation on the tissues of the afiected part has been the subject of much discussion, and cannot yet be said to be finally settled. It was shown by Lister, in 1858, that in the area exposed to the action of an irritant every indication of life is in abeyance during the most acute stage of the resulting inflammation. The muscular coats of the arteries cease to show the irregular contractions seen in health, the pigment- cells in a frog's foot no longer exhibit their peculiar changes, and the blood flowing through the part behaves as if in contact with dead matter. He thus sums up the conclusions to which his observations led him : " It appears that the various physical and chemical agents which, when ope'ratino- powerfully, extinguish the life of the constituents of the animal body, produce by a somewhat gentler action a condition bordering upon loss of vitality but qmte distinct from it, in which the tissues are, for the time being, incapacitated from dischargmg their wonted office, though retaining the faculty of returning afterwards, by vniue of their own inherent powers, to their former state of activity, provided the irritation have not been too severe or protracted " To this may be added that a still gentler action of the same agents, short of that necessary to produce the phenomena of inflammation, may stimulate the cells of the aff-ected part to increased activity and proliferation. This theory alone was, however, inadequate to account for the appearance of a multitude of new cells in tissues still suffering from the effect of an injury, and yet th^