58 AMPUTATIONS. scarcely be called an amputation. Celsus, who lived at the commencement of the Christian era (b.c. 25 to a.d. 45) encouraged a bolder line of practice. The operation of amputation as described by him was thus performed: A deep incision was made to the bone between the living and the dead tissues, encroaching rather on the living than leaving any of the dead. When the bone was reached, the sound flesh was drawn back from it, and the saw applied as high as possible. The edges of the skin were then brought down, and it was recommended that the covering should be lax, that it might as nearly as possible cover the bone. As, however, Celsus advises that the part which the skin did not reach should be dressed with hnt and a sponge squeezed out of vinegar, it is probable that in many cases at least the covering was not sufficient to make a perfect stump. Celsus was acquainted with the use of the ligature, and it is possible, therefore, that the vessels were secured by that means, but no distinct mention of it is made in his description of the operation. What- ever the method may have been that he adopted for arresting haemor- rhage, it seems not" to have been very efficient, for he tells us that the operation was attended by very great danger, the patients often dying during its performance, either from hEemorrhage or fainting. "But," he says, " in this it is not to be considered, whether the remedy is very safe, for it is the only one we have." Towards the end of the first century Archigenes (a.d. 48—117), a Greek practising in Rome, whose writings, are quoted by Oribasius, extended the field of the operation, recom- mending it in cases of severe wounds, cancer and incurable ulcers. He attempted to arrest bleeding during the operation by the use of the "fillet," a band bound tightly round the limb. He also recommended tying the large vessels before dividing them, but the exact method in which he did it is not clear. Heliodorus, who flourished about the same time, performed the opera- tion in two stages, dividing first those parts that contain no large vessels, then sawing the bone, and finally cutting through the remaining tissues, with the large vessels to which he applied the actual cautery. Galen (a.d. 131— 201), who also practised in Eome, describes the operation only as performed for gangrene. He relapsed somewhat towards the practice of Hippocrates, for although cutting in the line of demarcation between the dead and the living tissues, he recommended the operator to encroach rather on the former than the latter and afterwards to apply a cautery to such dead tissue as was left behind. From this time to the thirteenth century no important change took place in the method of operating, Galen's practice being generally adopted. During the whole of this period amputation seems to have been practised chiefly^ if not solely, for gangrene, and although the use of the ligature was frequently recommended for accidental wounds of arteries, the cautery was exclusively used in amputations. In the thirteenth century Theodoricus (1205—1298) repeated the instructions given by Celsus, but the operation seems not to have found much favour, for in the following century Guy of Chauliac, although he described the operation by the knife, expressed his preference for a method of his own invention, which consisted in strangulating the limb by plasters applied tightly above a joint and allowing it to drop ofi". His reason for this was that if the limb were am- putated in the ordinary way the patient might bear malice against his Surgeon, beheving that it might have been saved. It was not till 1520 thaf the method of Celsus was definitely revived as the rule of practice by