670 SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. elevation of the limb. This mode of reduction was first described by Charles White, of Manchester, in 1770. The patient must be placed upon a low chair or couch, and the arm raised perpendicularly by the side of the head at the same time that gentle traction is made upon it. In many cases so little force is required that no counter-extension is required beyond the weight of the jDatient's body, or the Surgeon may extend the arm Avith one hand while he steadies the shoulder with the other placed on the acromion and the outer end of the clavicle. Should more force be necessary, an assistant may steady the shoulder, or the Surgeon may use his foot (Fig. 254). When the bone is felt to slip in, the arm must be brought down to the side, while the head of the bone is held outwards by the hand in the axilla. In this mode of reduction the untorn part of the capsule is relaxed to the greatest Fig. 255.—Reduction of a Dislocated Shoulder-joint by the Heel in the Axilla. possible extent, as also is the deltoid, which is one of the most powerful of the muscles concerned in keeping up the displacement. This method is almost painless in most cases, and for this reason should always be tried before resorting to other means. 2. Reduction by the following ma7ii2mlaUon has been recommended by Kocher in all cases of subcoracoid and subclavicular dislocation :—Seat the patient in a chair, and stand by his side ; then flex his elbow to a right angle and press it inwards as far as possible towards the chest; then, holding the elbow in one hand, and using the forearm as a lever, rotate gently and steadily outwards till a distinct sense of resistance is felt; the elbow must now be brought forwards, or in other words the arm must be raised, with a slight inclination inwards, until it is nearly at right angles to the anterior plane of the body, the rotation outwards being maintained ; finally, the hand is placed on the opposite shoulder, by which a movement of rotation inwards is impressed on the humerus. This method, which was the result of the examin- ation of dislocations produced on the dead body, is so devised as to relax the tiffht bauds of the capsule and to make the opening gape. It has, in Kocher's hands, been very successful even with old dislocations : thus, he has success-