SPECIAL DISLOCATIONS. 694 its proper level; but if an attempt be made to straighten the knee, so that the limb lies flat, the lumbar spine will arch forwards. The slight flexion, the rotation inwards, and the adduction are all due to the position in which the neck of the bone is held by the ilio-femoral ligament; flexion and adduction are easy because by approximating the intertrochanteric line to the anterior inferior iliac spine they relax the ligament. When the head of the bone has escaped helow the tendon of the obturator we have the dislocation formerly described as into the sciatic notch, and to which the name "sciatic" is stiU usually applied. If seen immediately after the accident there may be extreme flexion and adduction, the dislocated limb crossing the sound thigh near the groin, but usually before the Surgeon sees the case the limb has been brought down so that the head has gone up behind the obturator. The symptoms then resemble those of the dislocation on to the dorsum ilii, differing chiefly in degree. The inversion of the knee and foot are, according to Bigelow, more marked, and conse- quently the trochanter is less prominent than in the disloca- tion on the ilium. In some cases, however, the inversion is less marked than in others. The shortening is very much less, as it is limited by the obturator internus in its abnormal position, and consequently the trochanter is but little above Nelaton's Hne ; it seldom exceeds an inch and is usually not so much. The position of the hmb will depend upon the degree to which the thigh has been extended since the accident. In the erect position the weight of the limb brings it down so that the axis of the thigh may be directed across the sound knee, and the toes of the injured side may rest on those of the opposite foot (Fig. 274). Thus it may closely resemble a dislocation on the^'dorsum ihi, the most important difference being the small amount of shortening when the head has escaped below the tendon. By violent m.anipulation or extension the obturator internus may be torn, and the lower dislocation may thus be converted into one on the dorsum ilii. The Diagnosis of this form of dislocation is easy in proportion as the head of the bone lies high on the dorsum ihi. The lower it is placed the more difficult does the detection of the displacement become, and the greater the risk of its being over- looked altogether, or mistaken for a sprain. In ordinary cases of fracture of the neck of the thigh-bone, the eversion of the limb at once shows that the head of the bone is not dislocated on the ilium. The only severe injury of the hip with which the dislocation upwards and backwards can be confounded is the rare case of fracture of the tiecJc of the thigh-lone, with inversion of the limb. In this accident, the increased mobility and the existence of crepitus will enable the Surgeon to make the diagnosis. Should the case, however, be one of impacted extracapsular fracture, with inversion, then the difficulty of diagnosis is undoubtedly great. A correct conclusion may, however, be arrived at by observing that in the fracture the flattened trochanter is approximated to, and is nearly in a perpendicular line with, the anterior superior spine of the ilium ; whilst in the dislocation the trochanter is diagonally behind that process of bone, and the head of the thigh- Fig. 274. — Dislocation below the Tendon. Much inversion. (Bi- gelow.)