CIRCUMSCRIBED TRAUMATIC ANEURISM. 469 sioii in all directions. Pulsation may, however, be absent. This occurs when the sac is ill-defined and contains much coagulum, and when the cavity is very large in proportion to the artery communicating with it. In spite of the absence of pulsation, such aneurisms continue to increase in size, and may finally rupture, but before doing so the superficial parts covering the tumour become inflamed from the tension. Such non-pulsating inflamed aneurisms are readily mistaken for abscesses. A bruit may often be heard in a circum- scribed traumatic aneurism, but it is fre(]uently absent. As the tumour increases in size, it will give rise to pressure signs similar to those of a spon- taneous aneurism. (See Chap. XLIIL, Vol. II.) This form of traumatic aneurism most commonly occurs from wounds partially dividing small arteries, as the temporal, plantar, palmar, radial, and ulnar, but it is also met with in connection with the larger vessels as a consequence of very small punctured wouuds. The Treatment must depend on the size and the situation of the artery, and on the degree of definition of the sac. The less defined the sac, that is to say, the more closely the tumour approaches a diffused aneurism, the more imperative it is to treat it by laying open the sac and hgaturing above and below the opening, as described before (p. 4(;(;). On the other hand, if the sac be well defined, treatment by compression of the vessel leading to it may be attempted, and is occasionally successful. When this has failed, the operation by laying open the sac is usually to be preferred. The profuse suppuration from the cavity, which was formerly so troublesome, can usually be prevented by clearing away all coagula with a sharp spoon, and adopting efficient anti- septic treatment. In this way, in a case of trau- matic aneurism of the ulnar artery in which the pi,, 150. - circumscribed Trau- sac was as big as a large orange, complete union Aneurism m Baii of \ , • . r • T , ^ liumb atter a Powder-flask l)y first mtention was obtamed, the two sides of Explosion, the sac adhering when brought together. In exceptional cases, if the sac be well-defined, and the tumour be so situated that it would be difficult or hazardous to lay it open, a proximal ligature may be applied: but there is no necessity in most cases to tie at a distance from the sac, as the vessel is healthy except at the wounded spot. Thus, to avoid cutting into the palm, which might have endangered the utility of the hand, I successfully tied the brachial for the aneurism represented in Fig. 150, which followed an injury from a powder-flask explosion. When the aneurism shows signs of impending suppuration the proper course is to lay open the sac and tie above and below. 2. The next form of circumscribed traumatic aneurism is of rare occurrence, and arises usually from a small puncture in a large artery. The vessel bleeds \ freely; but, the hemorrhage being arrested by pressure, the external wound, and that in the artery close. The cicatrix in the artery gradually yields, k ibrming, at the end of weeks or months, a tumour which gradually enlarges, ^ and pulsates eccentrically, with distinct bruit, having all the symptoms that characterize an aneurism from disease, and possessing a sac continuous with