SPECIAL FRACTURES. 6oo small, consisting merely of scales of bone ; the third posterior ones being fragment, the largest, comprising the whole of the articular surface of cne radius, which was tilted somewhat upwards and backwards, carrying tne naiKl with it. To this fragment were attached the supinator longus, and part of the pronator quadratus ; the ligaments and capsule of the joint were uninjured. This case presented the appearance usually met with in this kind of injury ; the lower fragment being dis- placed in such a way that its articular surface looked slightly backwards, and somewhat outwards, so as to be twisted as it were upon its axis. The upper frag- ment was found in a state of pronation, and was driven into and firmly impacted in the lower one. That the deformity in this case was the result of impaction, there could be no doubt; and that this is so in many cases, is proved by an examination of several siDecimens preserved in the London Museums, and by the difficulty of accounting in any other way for the occasional impossibility of properly reducing these fractures. The great traction that is usually required to remove the deformity, and the absence of distinct crepitus until after forcible traction has been employed, indicate the existence of this impaction. Mechanism.—The mode in which the accident occurs, and the position of the hand at the moment of its coming into contact with the ground, will, I think, materially influence the kind of fracture 'as well as the amount and character of the resulting deformity. When a person falls on his hands out- stretched to save him, the limb is usually not completely pronated. It is half-way between complete pronation and the mid-state between pronation and supina- tion. Complete pronation is a forcible muscular effort which is not carried to the full extent at the moment of danger. The hand is in fact three-quarters Fis. 109.—Fracture of Lower find of Radius; Dlsplace- inent of Articular Surlace. pronated—not wholly so. The effect of this position is, that the ulnar border IS directed slightly downwards and first comes into contact with the o-round and the fracturing force is directed in a line that is somewhat towards the radial side, as well as backwards and upwards. Hence the hand is driven from the nlna towards the radius, causing the strongly marked projection of the styloid process of the ulna ; and, the radius being broken across at its lower end, the fragment, carrying with it the carpus and hand, is driven backwards upwards, and slightly outwards, causing the double deformity of a projection