356 GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. and the use of antiseptics, to watch and facilitate the separation of sloughs should they form, and to pay scrupulous attention to cleanliness and the general hjgienic surroundings of the patient. By adopting some form of ant/septic treatment, inflammation may be limited, and the formation of sloughs avoided ; in both civil and military practice the repair of gun-shot fractures without suppuration has been frequently obtained by this mode of dressing. In cases occurring in civil practice the employment of antiseptics with all needful precautions is easy, and the results are correspondingly satisfactory. Kraskc has published a series of twenty-three cases under the care of Yolkmann in Halle, treated by strict antiseptic dressing with enlargement of the apertures, both of entry and exit, to facilitate drainage. Of these two died—one a perforating wound of the skull, and one wound of the abdomen perforating the liver, kidney, and pleura. The twenty-one cases that recovered were the following : live flesh wounds, two flesh wounds requiring primary hgature of the femoral artery for hgemorrhage, two of the arm with fracture, four wounds of the knee-joint, two perforating wounds of the skull, and six of the chest. In military practice it is to be hoped that the simpler modes of dressing now adopted will make it possible to carry out eificient antiseptic treatment even after such battles as those of the Franco-German war. At the time of the Russo-Turkish war of ]87()-77 the generally accepted antiseptic treatment was that by means of carbolic acid, including the use of the spray and the gauze dressing, and several of the Russian Surgeons attempted this. Bergmann, however, according to Surgeon-Major Melladew, found it im- possible to carry it out with anything like completeness at the crossing of the Danube, where the wounded were comparatively few. The river-watei- was full of sand and mud, which soon choked the spray-producers, and rendered them useless ; and no amount of carbolic acid was sufficient to purify it so as to take away its foul smell. Then, again, the skin of the wounded soldier, begrimed Avith the dust and sweat of long marches, could not be cleansed with the appliances usually at hand. But yet, notwithstanding all these drawbacks, the antiseptic treatment did more than had ever been effected by any other ; for it was by means of it that Bergmann and Reyher saved almost all their cases of gun-shot wound of the knee-joint. Reyher, who had provided himself with all the materials for Lister's carbolic gauze treatment, adopted two modes of dressing. If the apertures of the wound Avere very small, and no foreign bodies or splinters of bone required removal, he simply washed the skin externally with 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid, and applied a dry gauze dressing, Avhich Avas left untouched, the wound being allowed if possible to heal by scabbing beneath it. If the apertures were large, and splinters of bone had to be removed, he carried out Lister's treatment in all its details, Avith injection of the Avound, drainage, and repeated dressings. By both these modes of treatment he obtained a large measure of success. The best mode of carrying out the antiseptic treatment is still undetermined, but perchloride of mercury seems the most practically useful agent for cleaning the skin, disinfecting the wounds and impregnating the dressings. Carbolic acid would only be required for the instruments used during operations. The advantages of the perchloride are that it can be carried in