SIGiYS OF FRACTURE OF BASE OF SKULL. 727 The siccus of fracture of the base of the skull will uecessarily vary according to the seat of injury. When the fissure extends through the anterior fossa, there may be extravasation of blood into the orbit or beneath the conjunctiva, or free haemorrhage fi'oni the nose. When it implicates the middle fossa, there is, very frequently, fracture of the petrous portion of the temporal bone, with rupture of the tympanic membrane, and then there will be bleeding or a watery discharge from the ears. When the posterior fossa is the seat of frac- ture, the signs are more equivocal. In some cases, however, discoloration 0I the skin from extravasated blood behind the mastoid process and at the back of the neck, when there has been no direct injury in that situation, may indicate the situation of the fissure. There are two signs, tlie occurrence of which, separately or together, affords strong presumptive evidence of the existence of this kind of fracture : 1. The Escape of Blood from the interior of the Cranium through the ears, nose, or into the orbit ; and 2. The Discharge of a Serous Fluid from the Ears, and occasionally from other parts in connection with the base of the skull. 1. The occurrence of Bleeding from one or both Ears after an injury of the head cannot by itself be considered a sign of much importance, as it may arise from any violence by which the membrana tympani is rup- tured, or the cai'tilage of the pinna separated from the bone, without the skull neces- sarily being fractured. If, how- ever, the hsemorrhage be con- siderable, trickling slowly out of the external auditory meatus in a continuous stream ; if the blood with which the external ear is filled pulsate ; and more < specially if the bleeding last for three or four hours and be associated with other symptoms indicative of serious mischief within the head, and if it have been occasioned by a degree of violence sufficient to fracture the skull, we may look upon the haemor- rhage as strong evidence that a fracture of the l3ase, extending into the petrous portion of the temporal bone, has taken place, and that, perhaps, one of the venous sinuses in its neighbourhood is torn (Fig. 294). The evidence, however, is only presumptive ; it is not positive as to fracture of the base of the skull through its petrous portion, nor indeed of any inti-acranial injury whatever. Copious haemorrhage from the ear to the extent of many ounces has been known to occur from a fracture of the anterior and inferior part of the meatus auditorius externus, in consequence of the condyle of the lower jaw being forcibly driven up against it, the jaw itself having been fractured. Fig. 204.—Fracture of Tomporal Bnne jiassing through the 'I'ympaiuiin and tearing the Meningeal Artery (A).