647 REDUCTION BY EXTENSION. positions quite different from those ordinarily set forth in descriptions givrng- rise to those rare displacements which Bigelow has classed as trregular (hs- locaiions. In other cases, the head of the bone may be grasped by the edges ot the rent in the capsule through Avhich it has passed, and reduction is almost impossible till the limb is placed in such a position as to relax them thoroughly. In hinge- joints, the bony processes may get locked into each other, as, for example, m dislocation of the bones of the forearm backwards, when the coronoid process hitches against the lower end of the humerus. The false position is then maintained chiefly by the tonic contraction of the muscles. Bearing these facts in mind, the reduction of a dislocation is effected by the following means :— Mechanical contrivances are much less frequently used for the reduction of dislocation since the employment of ansesthetics than formerly. It is, how- ever, occasionally necessary to employ apparatus calculated to fix the articular surface from which the bone is dislocated, and to draw down or disentangle the displaced bone to such an extent that it may be replaced in its normal position. If the patient have not been anaesthetized, it will be found that, when the bone is well brought down by the extending force so as to be opposite its articulation, and disentangled from osseous points upon Avhich it may have hitched, or from the edge of the slit in the lacerated capsule, it will be drawn at once into its proper position by the action of its own muscles, with a sudden and distinct snap ; the muscles of the part IdgitIq til6 most efficient agents in the reduction, as soon as the bone is placed in a position for them to act upon it. When, however, the patient has been placed under the influence of chloroform, the muscular system being thoroughly relaxed, the bone will not slip into its place with a snap or sudden jerk, but is reduced more quietly, and rather by the efforts of the Surgeon than by any sudden contraction of its own muscles. It is important to note these differences lest the Surgeon, when chloroform has been fully administered, failing to hear the snap or feel the jerk which he expected, should imagine that the bone has not been reduced, and continue to use an improper degree of extension. The purely mechanical means for the reduction of dislocations are sufficiently simple : the patient's body, and the articular cavity whence the luxated bone has escaped, are fixed by a split sheet, a jack-towel, a padded belt, or some such contrivance, by which counter-extension is practised. In some cases the hands of an assistant, or of the Surgeon himself, or the pressure of his knee or heel, constitute the best counter-extending means. Extension may be made either by the Surgeon grasping the limb to be reduced and drawing it down- wards, or else by means of a bandage or jack-towel fixed upon the part, with the clove-hitch knot applied in the way represented in the annexed cut (Fig. 24:2). If more force be required, the multiplying pulleys (Fig. 278) may be used, by which any amount of extendiug force that may be required can readily be set up and maintained. When any powerful extending force is applied, the skin of the part should always be protected by a few turns of a wet roller. The extension must be made slowly and gradually without any jerking, so as to secure equality of motion as well as of traction. In this way the contraction of the muscles is gradually overcome, whereas sudden and forcible extension might excite them to reaction. The traction may be com- menced in the newly acquired axis of the limb, and by this means the dislo-