183 INFECTIVE IN FLA MM A TIONS. dose inoculated. To inflammations arising from this cause the term " infec- tive " is applied. The pathogenic organisms belong to the same orders and classes as the sapropliyfces just described. They belong chiefly to the orders micrococcus and bacillus (see p. 178), but pathogenic bacteria are also met with, as in emphysematous gangrene. The individual species will be described with the diseases with which' they are associated (Anthrax, Glanders, Tabercle, Erysi- pelas, &c.). The theory of infective inflammations generally received at the present time is that under certain conditions these parasitic fungi take up their abode in a part of the body frequently already damaged, as in a wound or a centre of suppuration, and then, while growing, give rise to a process of fermentation in the fluids of the part, the products of which are irritating locally, and poisonous if absorbed into the system. Some forms are capable of multiplying in the blood and thus affecting the whole system. They are then supposed to act partly by lodging in minute vessels and exciting at the point at which they are arrested a process of inflammation similar to that in the original seat of disease, partly by forming poisonous products by their action on the fluids of the blood, and partly, like true parasites, by absorbing oxygen and other nutriment to the detriment of the tissues of the body. The true infective inflammations are therefore due to the accidental introduction of a poison or virus which possesses the power of increasing in quantity in the living tissues. The effect produced is, therefore, quite irre- spective of the size of the original wound or starting-point of the inflammation. Thus the prick of a needle in sewing up a body after a post-mortem examina- tion may start an inflammation extending through the whole arm. In an infective process of this kind the virus exists abundantly in the products of the inflammation, that is to say, in the inflammatory exudation, and if by any m'^ans these products are transferred from one part of the body to another, they set up a similar unhealthy inflammation wherever they may lodge ; and, in like manner, a similar inflammation may be started in another individual by inoculation of the exudation. The local spread of the inflammation is due to the irritating inflammatory products which contain'the ferment-like poison finding their way into the lymph-spaces of the surrounding tissues. An infective inflammation may be limited to one part of the body, and spread merely by local infection, as in spreading gangrene and phlegmonous erysi- pelas ; or the poison may be taken up by the lymphatics, and cause inflam- mation similar in character to the original process in the nearest lymphatic glands without infecting the system generally, as in soft chancre and some forms of dissecting wound ; or it may be carried throughout the body by means of broken-down clots from the veins of the primary seat of disease, giving rise to local inflammation wherever the fragments of clot may lodge, as in some forms of pytemia ; or lastly, the poison may enter the blood and multiply in it, giving rise to a general infective process, as in septic infection, malignant pustule (splenic fever), or syphilis. The term " infective " is, therefore, applied only to those conditions in which the poison multiplies in the Hving tissues of the body; when the infection merely spreads locally with- out affecting the whole system, the result is called a local infective inflam- mation; when the poison enters the system and multiplies throughout it, presumably in the blood, the affection is spoken of as a general infective