SPECIAL FRACTURES, 640 I of pus, ensues ; the ankle-joint is destroyed and secondary amputation often becomes necessary. The injury, however, is usually recovered from with a good and useful limb when the patient is young and of sound constitution, and the dangers of inflammation and suppuration are guarded against by the establishment of good drainage, by the prevention of decomposition, and. by perfect rest. As age advances, however, and the constitution becomes broken, less is to be expected from conservative surgery. In the Treatment, the course to be pursued will depend upon the extent of the injury. If the fracture be not much comminuted, the wound in the soft parts clean cut and but moderate in extent, and the large vessels oF the foot uninjured, an attempt should be made to save the limb. The wound and the joint must be carefully cleaned with an efficient antiseptic. If the drainage be insufficient the wound may be enlarged in such a way as to provide free exit for the discharges from behind the malleolus ; any splintered, fragments must be removed and the wound left open to heal by granulation, some form of antiseptic dressing being applied. The limb must be firmly fixed on a splint; as a rule a lateral splint applied to the side opposite the wound will be found the most convenient. If the wound is on the inner side, as it almost always is, the limb must be flexed and laid on its outer side; should it be on the outer side it may be swung in a Salter's cradle. If there be great comminution of bone, with dislocation of the foot, and perhaps rupture of the posterior tibial artery, in a person at or beyond the middle period of life, amputa- tion should be practised. In a young subject, even such a serious injury as this may be recovered from, if the Surgeon remove loose fragments and saw off the splintered ends of the bone. If much of the fibula should require removal, Stromeyer recommended that the limb should, be amputated instead, lest a useless foot, affected with a kind of valgus, be left. But, in children and young subjects, tbis inconvenience and deformity may be overcome by mechanical means ; and the probability of its occurrence would not, in my opinion, justify amputation. In badly set fractures near the ankle-joint, great deformity with much impairment of use of the foot may result. In these cases the inner malleolus will be found to project greatly, the fibula to be curved inwards above its lower third, so as to form a concavity above the external malleolus, and. the foot to be turned somewhat outAvards (Fig. 240). I have in two such cases succeeded in removing the deformity to a considerable extent, even after so lengthened a period, as two years, by dividing the fibula subcutaneously with a narrow-bladed saw at the seat of greatest concavity, forcibly adducting the foot, and then putting up the fracture in a Dupuytren's splint. Fractures of the Bones of the Foot almost invariably result from direct violence, and are usually accompanied by bruising and injury of the soft parts ; hence much displacement is rare, and, when the fracture is simple. Fig. 240.—BadlysetPott's Frac tiire, curable by operation.