731 DEPRESSED FRACTURE OF SKULL. not be forgotten that whenever bleeding appears externally, the fracture componnd, and that decomposition of the discharges, with consequent septic meningitis, forms one of the greatest dangers of the case. Fortunately, how- ever, in a large proportion of cases the dura mater is intact, and consequently the danger is greatly diminished. In fractures implicating the ethmoid and sphenoid bones, with heemorrhage from the nose, little can be done to prevent decomposition ; but the nasal fossse may be washed oat with some antiseptic solution to remove decomposing clots or discharge, and some iodoform should be blown into the cavity as high up as possible. In fractures affecting the tympanum, with rupture of the membrana tympani, the prevention of decom- position is more hopeiul, although the Eustachian tube communicating with the upper part of the pharynx causes some degree of uncertainty. Yet, as it is lined with ciliated epithelium, it is quite possible that the causes of decom- position may not reach the fracture by that route. The ear should m such <;ases be carefully syringed out with a solution of carbohc acid in water (1 in 30), after which some iodoform may be blown on to it. It may then be plugged either with antiseptic gauze or wool, a large dressing of the same material being applied over the side of the head. The syringing must be gently done, and the carbolic solution should not be too strong, or it may cause some inflammation in the middle ear. The dressing must be changed as often as may be necessary. In other respects the treatment of fracture of the base of the skull must be conducted on those general principles that guide us in the management of simple fractures of the cranium, such as ice to the shaved head, a calomel purge, low diet, and absolute quietude in a darkened room. In many cases, the brain is so injured in its most vital parts that speedy death is the result. When recovery takes place, it is necessarily slow and liable to retardation from meningitis of an acute or subacute and chronic character. Depressed Fractuke of the Skull.—It occasionally though very rarely happens that, in consequence of a blow, a portion of the skull is depressed without being fractured, and even without any serious cerebral symptoms occurring. Such depression without fracture can, however, occur only in children, whose skulls are soft and yielding. In adults it cannot happen without the occurrence of partial or incomplete fracture. Many, if not all, of the so-called "congenital depressions" that are met with in the skull are the result either of violence inflicted on the cranium at birth, usually in instrumental labours, or of falls and blows upon the head in early infancy. Such depressions are smooth, concave,- and sometimes symmetrical, and present very different characters from the irregular outline of an ordinary fracture. They never present the characters of a fissure ; there is no such thing as a congenital fissure of the skull. In the Diagnosis of depressed fracture, it is important to remember that the apparent depression produced by an extravasation under the scalp may simulate this injury very closely. (See p. TIG). Varieties.—Depressed fractures of the skull may either be simple, without wound of the scalp ; compound ; or comminuted. In the majority of cases, whether the fracture be simple or compound, there is comminution of the bone ; the fragments being perhaps driven into the brain. Sometimes, though very rarely, the external table alone is depressed and driven into the diploe. Over the frontal sinuses, it may be broken in, as I