490 ENTRANCE OF A IE INTO VEINS. chest recommeuded by these observers, and by Gerdy, however valuable it may be in preventing the ingress of air, can, when it has once been introduced into the veins, have no effect in removing it. Bleeding from the temporal artery, opening the right jugular vein, and even tracheotomy, are other measures which have been recommended, but are unlikely to be productive of anything but harm. 1. What, then, are the measures that a Surgeon should adopt ? Beyond a doubt, the first thing to be done is to prevent the farther ingress of air, by compressing the wounded vein with the finger, and, if practicable, securing it by a ligature, as it is only when the air that is introduced exceeds a certain ([uantity that death ensues. All further entry of air having been thus pre- vented, out next object should be to keep up a good supply of blood to the brain and nervous centres, and thus maintain their activity. The most efficient means of accomplishing this would probably be the plan suggested by Mercier, who recommends us to compress the abdominal aorta and axillary arteries, so as to divert the blood that may pass through the lungs to the encephalon. This appears to me to be the most effectual way of carrying out the indication. The patient should, at the same time, be placed in a recumbent position, so as to facilitate the afflux of blood to the head. The compression of the axillary and femoral arteries may readily be made by the fingers of two assistants. 2. To maintain the action of the heart until the obstruction in the capil- laries of the lungs can be overcome or removed, artificial respiration should bo resorted to as the most effectual means of keeping up the action of that organ, [t also helps the circulation through the lungs, and thus relieves the right side of the heart. Silvester's method of artificial respiration is the best, (see Chap. XXVII,) but before employing it, it will be necessary to remove everything that compresses the chest, or interferes in any way with the free exercise of the respiratory movements. Friction with the hand over the praecordial region, and the stimulus of ammonia to the nostrils, may at the same time be resorted to. 3. The third indication—that of overcoming the obstruction in the pulmonic capillaries—would probably be best fulfilled by the means adopted to maintain the heart's action, viz., artificial respiration. That the action of respiration, if kept up sufficiently long, will enable the capillaries of the lungs to get rid of the air contained in them, appears to be certain; for I have experimentally observed that, if a certain quantity of air be intro- duced into the jugular vein of a dog, and artificial respiration be then established, and maintained for half or three-quarters of an hour, a very small quantity indeed, if any, will be found, on killing the animal, in the cavities of the heart, or in the branches of the pulmonary vessels. I am aware that this is not altogether conclusive, as the air might be dissolved in the blood, or might still exist in the capillaries of the lungs, although none might be found in the larger branches of the pulmonary artery; but still it seems to me that we can hardly account for the large quantity of air that will disappear when artificial respiration is kept up, in any other way than by assuming tliat some, if not all of it, passes out of the capillary vessels into the air-cells of the lungs.