COMPLICATIOyS OF COMPOUND FRACTURE. 561 wovst-looking- cases of compound fracture, especially of the leg, eventually do the best. Should septic inflammation and suppuration occur, an endeavour must be made to moderate ilie inflammaiion, and lessen the consiitulional dislurhance. This is best effected by fixing the limb on a splint in such a way that, although the wound can be dressed, the apparatus shall be left undisturbed as long as possible. The great art in the treatment of a compound fracture under these circumstances consists in not disturbing the limb ; for days or even Aveeks it may sometimes advantageously be left without interference when once it has been carefully put up. Should diffused swelliug take place, the wound become sloughy, and much inflammation be set up in the limb, this may be moderated by the application of warm antiseptic applications, the best being boric acid lint moistened in warm boric lotion. The part should be elevated and but lightly covered, the bed-clothes being well raised by means of a cradle so as not to press on the Jimb ; care being taken, at the same time, that the band- ages be applied loosely, with only a sufficient degree of force to retain the limb upon the splint, as inflammatory infiltration, which might rapidly induce strangulation of the part, is apt to ensue. The constitutional irritation must be subdued by the administration of opiates, together with an aperient, ri.'peated from time to time during the first few days. A moderate and cooling regimen must bo employed, and the patient must be disturbed as little as possible. In many cases, if he be addicted to drink, symptoms of nervous irritation soon come on : in these circumstances, it is of great moment that support, and even stinmlants, be freely given ; they must be allowed from the very first, and increased in proportion to the depression of the patient's strength. If there be much bruising and extravasation of blood, great tension of the h'mb, followed by sloughing, will take place in the neighbourhood of the wound ; free incisions are then required to remove the tension, and, by letting out the decomposing blood and pus, to lessen the risk of gangrene, and diminish the fever resulting from the absorption of the products of putre- faction. If this be not done, deep infiltration takes place through the areolar planes of the Hmb, and the most extensive local mischief may result, pyemia being almost certain to ensue. As soon as suppuration is fairly established, fomentjitions of boric lint, wet salicylic wool, or thick moist oakum dressing- should be applied, and the wound may be sprinkled with iodoform ; the burrowing of matter must be prevented by making counter-openings where necessary, and by attention to the position of the hmb. The wound "inust be frequently syringed with carbolic acid lotion, Condy's fluid, or some other antiseptic. The fractui-e-apparatus must be kept scrupulously clean ; the bandages changed as often as soiled, and the pads well protected with'oiled silk. During this period various complications, such as septicfemia, pytemia, erysipelas, inflammation of the lymphatics and veins, and septic pneumonia' are apt to occur, requiring special consideration and treatment; so also, if the. discharge be abundant, symptoms of hectic may come on, requiring the free use of stimulants and the administration of the mineral acids and other remedies according to circumstances. As the confinement to bed is necessarily very prolonged in these cases, often extending through many weeks and months the state of the patient's back should be attended to, and he should early be placed upon a water-cushion or bed, lest sores supervene. As the wound '^OL. I. ^ ^ . 0 0