268 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. A si7ius is a suppurating track penetrating to a greater or less depth amongst the tissues, closed at its deep end, and openhig on the surface of the body. A fistula is an abnormal communication between two of the cavities of the body, or between a cavity and the surface, or a track through Avhich the secretion of some gland or hollow viscus takes an unnatural course. Thus we talk of a sinus leading down to dead bone, but of a recto-vesical fistula, an aerial fistula, a urinary fistula, &c. The Causes of this non-closure of an abscess may be referred to the following heads : 1. The presence of a foreign body, as a piece of dead bone ; 2. The passage of irritating matters, as urine, fasces, saliva, &c., through the abscess ; 3. The contraction of neighbouring muscles : as when the abscess is in the neighbourhood of the sphincter ani, and as occasionally happens in abscesses about the limbs ; and 4. The presence of an insufficiently drained cavity at the bottom of the sinus. The orifice of a sinus or fistula when situated in hard and condensed tissues is often very small, depressed, and perhaps covered by a scab. In soft tissues it is commonly large and widely open ; when communicating with bones there are usually soft, florid granulations obstructing it. Struckijre.—A sinus consists of a narrow channel, often long and winding, having an external orifice usually somewhat protuberant, and situated under or among loose florid granulations. The walls of this channel, which are always indurated, are lined by a layer of imperfectly-formed granulations, exuding pus. If the orifice be occluded, this pus will collect within the sinus, and, distending its wahs, reconvert it into an abscess. In structure, therefore, a sinus may be said to be a long, naiTow, chronic abscess, with a permanent external aperture. The granulation-tissue of a sinus, like that of any other granulating sore, contracts in healing, and consequently a healed sinus leaves a deep dimple in the skin. This is the best evidence of thorough healing ; a sinus may always be expected to break open again if it skins over superficially without dimpling. A fistula may difi'er in no respect from a sinus when its length is consider- able, as in many anal and urethral fistute, but when it forms merely a short communicating channel between two cavities, as between the rectum and vagina, or betw^een the surface and a cavity or duct, as in a tracheal or salivary fistula, the granulations may become completely covered by epithelium continuous with that on each side, and no cure is possible till this has been cut away or destroyed. The Treatment of a sinus or fistula has reference to its cause in the first instance ; for, until the foreign body or the insuflicient drainage that keeps it open and maintains the discharge has been removed, it will be useless to attempt its closure. After the removal of the obstacle to healing, we may endeavour to procure obliteration of the sinus by one of three methods. 1. Pressure, by means of a roller and graduated compress, so as to cause adhesion of its opposite sides, is useful in those cases in which the sinus is recent, without much surrounding induration, and so situated, as upon the trunk, that pressure can easily be applied. 2. A more healthy condition may often be produced in the sinus by inject- ing it from time to time with "red wash," or with tincture of iodine, by the introduction of iodoform in crystals by means of a catheter or by soluble