GENERAL PRINCIPLES IN AMPUTATION. 65 cicatrix is to be placed, aud taken at the point at which the bone is to be divided. In operating on the dead body, it is evident that if two equal flaps, each half the diameter of the limb, were cut, measuring from the point at which the bone is sawn to the end of the flaps, they would accurately meet and cover in the bone, but such flaps in the living body would be totally inadequate on account of the shrinking from the elasticity of the skin and the displacement from the contraction of the muscles. Consequently, it is necessary to provide another half diameter of covering at least, and in some situations even this amount is insufficient. As an illustration of the above rale, let us suppose a limb is to be amputated, the antero-posterior diameter of which, at the point where the bone is to be sawn, is six inches, the necessary diameter and a half of covering could be obtained in the following ways amongst others 1. One long flap nine inches long ; 2, two flaps, one six inches long and the other three ; 3, two equal flaps four and a half inches long ; 4, two equal flaps three inches long, and retraction of the muscles from the bone to such an extent as to provide an inch and a half of covering on each side ; 5, a circular incision raising the skin and fat for three inches, and another circular cut through the muscles with retraction of the soft parts from the bone for one inch and a half. The general rule that one diameter and a half is sufficient, requires modifica- tion under various conditions of the tissues of which the covering is made, and in various situations. In very old people the skin has frequently lost much of its elasticity, but it is not wise to shorten the covering on this account, as the tissues being feeble are less capable of withstanding the irritating eflPect of tension. In amputation through chronically inflamed tissues, the retraction is also reduced to a minimum on account of the rigidity of the parts ; but here again it is unwise to shorten the covering ; in fact it is better to make it a little longer, as the flaps are very apt gradually to shrink during or after the healing of the stump. In limbs in which the muscles have undergone extreme fatty degeneration, the retraction caused by their tonic contraction is absent, so that the minimum covering of a diameter and a half is amply sufficient. In the lower third of the thigh the covering should always be increased to two diameters to allow for the very excessive retraction of the long flexor muscles of the leg. In amputation of the leg by the long calf-flap, it is also necessary to provide very abundant covering to allow for the subsequent shrinking of the muscular tissue which forms the posterior flap. 2. That the scar shall not be over the end of the bone.—It is evident in the first place that protrusion of the bone is more likely to occur if the two flaps in a flap amputation meet exactly over its end : but the chief object in placing the scar so that it shall be free from the bone is to avoid a painful stump. If the scar in the skin is adherent to the bone it becomes extremely liable to ulceration from slight injuries. If the scar be placed well away from the bone, it is often possible in amputations of the lower limb for the patient to bear a certain proportion of his weight on the end of the stump, which gives greatly increased steadiness in walking on an artificial limb. ,3. That a dependent opening is to be provided yor the exit of DISCHARGE.—This may be stated in other words thus : that the covering of the stump shall be taken chiefly from the dorsal surface of the forearm, and from the anterior part of the limb elsewhere. Perfect drainage is essential for union of any wound by first intention, and consequently it is needless to VOL. I. P