RABIES: SYMPTOMS. 373 throat; hence the o-reater dauger of their bites. There is this important difference between the poisonous inoculation of the wound by the bite ot a rabid dog and of a snake. In the case of the dog the poison is only adherent to the tooth, and hence, if this be wiped in its passage through clothing, the bite is rendered innocuous. In the case of the snake, the poison is projected through the hollow fang, and hence, wherever that enters, however clean its exterior may be wiped, this drop of poison is injected into the parts at the extreme point of penetration. But making all allowance for the mechanical action of clothing in preventing inoculatioQ of the part bitten, there is, I think, good reason to believe that there is a great difierence in the suscepti- bility of different individuals Lo the poison of rabies. For it is an undoubted fact that veterinary Surgeons and others have often been bitten on an un- covered hand by rabid dogs, and yet have escaped the disease. Blliotson mentions the cases of two sisters who were both bitten on the face by the same rabid dog ; the first escaped, the second died of rabies. White, of Brighton, disbelieving in the contagion of the disease, inoculated himself with the saliva of a rabid dog with impunity. Nothing is as yet known as to the exact nature of the virus, and all attempts to discover a specific micro-organism in the infective secretions and tissues have so far failed. The observations of Pasteur seem to show that its activity is abolished by drying, heat, and putrefaction, but can be preserved for some time by cold and moisture. The virus exists in the saliva and salivary glands, in the central nervous system, and in the peripheral nerves, but no satisfactory proof has been given that it exists in the blood. Period of Inculjation.—Eabies difi'ers from most other specific diseases in the length of time that the poison may lie dormant without giving rise to any symptoms. This period is very variously estimated by different writers. It is said to have been as short as three days and as long as fifteen years, but it is now generally believed rarely to extend beyond a few weeks. In only (] per cent, of 147 authentic cases was it found to exceed six weeks. RuflPer finds that in !)7 per cent, of fatal cases, death took place within four months of the bite. In the case of the Duke of Eichmond, who was bitten whilst separating a tame fox and a dog that were quarrelling (it is doubtful by which animal the bite was inflicted), the disease did not develop itself for six or seven weeks. Meade has related the case of a lady who had the disease fifteen months after the bite ; and Mayer, of St. Petersburg, that of a young man who died of rabies twenty-six months after being bitten ; Sir Thomas Watson adduces evidence that the poison may lie dormant for years. Writers, however, who state that six, seven, twelve, and even fifteen years have intervened between the infliction of the wound and the manifestation of the symptoms, have evidently fallen into error, having probably confounded with hydrophobia other nervous affections that closely resemble it. In this long and uncertain period of incubation the disease bears some resemblance to syphilis, which may occasionally give rise to no definite symptoms, either local or general, till six weeks after inoculation. Symptoms in Man.—The wound has generally cicatrized long before any symptoms of rabies declare themselves ; and no peculiar appearance is pre- sented by the scar. Shooting pains, twitching and itching sensations have, however, occasionally been experienced in the site of the wound before the onset of the disease.