27 ADMINISTRATION OF CHLOROFORM. operation. It has one special danger ; if the bottle be filled too full or be accidentally tilted, pure chloroform may be blown into the mouth, or even into the lungs—an accident which has been known to be fatal. This accident may be avoided by not putting more than six or eight drachms of chloroform into the bottle, and by guarding the tube through which the vapour passes by a second one over it. However administered, chlorofoi-m should not be given too suddenly nor in too concentrated a form. If lint be used, it must not be too much saturated nor be held too closely applied to the mouth and nostrils, or the patient may not be able to get sufficient air, and may speedily become par- tially asphyxiated, choking violently, struggling to get free, and becoming purple in the face. Care should be taken not to compress the abdomen in holding the patient ; for, as the respiration becomes chiefly diaphragmatic, it may be seriously interrupted by any pressure on the abdominal wall. As chloroform has a sedative action on the heart, the patient should not be raised up s uldenly if this can be avoided, while he is deeply under its influence, lest dangerous syncope should ensue. Hence, also, it is dangerous to administer it in those operations that require to be performed whilst the patient is erect. With due caution, it may be given with safety to individuals of all ages. I have operated on infants less than a week old, as well as on octogenarians, under its influence. In administering it to young children, Snow recommended its dilution with rectified spirit, but this is unnecessary. The effects of chloroform resemble generally those of ether. Chloroform, however, usually gives rise to less excitement than ether, and being less irri- tating to the lungs, causes less choking and sense of suffocation, and scarcely any increased secretion from the pharynx and bronchial tubes. It slightly stimulates the action of the hearc during the early stages of its administration, but this is quickly followed by depression with lowering of blood pressure. Muscular rigidity during the early stages is rarely as marked as with ether. The effects of the administration of chloroform vary considerably in different patients. Occasionally the patient becomes unconscious as quietly as in the natural process of going to sleep. More commonly the first effect produced is a feeling of warmth at the pit of the stomach. This is followed by some choking sensation and violent beating of the heart, with noises in the head. At this period the patient begins to lose self-control. He talks excitedly, but not absolutely incoherently, and the struggling which frequently takes place assumes the form of efforts to remove the chloroform from his face, or to escape from the hands of the Surgeon and his assistants. At this time the pulse is quicker and more forcible than natural, the respiration is hurried and deep, the pupil acts readily to light, the face becomes flushed, and if the struggling is violent, it may be purple and turgid. This period of excitement is quickly followed by loss of consciousness. The struggling may still con- tinue, but the movements are purposeless, and such words as he utters are disconnected and incoherent. At this stage, a violent tonic contraction of every muscle in the body may take place ; respiration is arrested, and the face becomes dusky. It is wiser not to force the chloroform when this condition is present. If the lint be removed from the face for a few seconds the spasm ceases, and a few good deep respirations remove the lividity of the face, when the administration may be recommenced without danger. More commonly the stage of excitement is followed directly by that of complete insensibility.