WOUNDS OF THE PALMAR ARCHES. superficially at the lower part of the forearm, or if it be in any way diflFused, the better plan is to cut dowu upon and through the tumour at once, ligaturino- the vessel on each side. If, however, the aneurism be deeply seated amongst the mass of muscles at the upper part of the forearm, near the elbow-joint, the wound having healed, and the soft parts covering it being healthy and firm, compression of the brachial, with moderate pressure on the tumour itself, should first be tried, as it has been known to effect a cure. The apph'- cation of Esmarch's bandage or forcible flexion of the elbow might possibly succeed if simple pressure fiiiled. If these means fail Liston advised ligature of the brachial artery, but as a rule it is better to open the sac and tie the vessel above and below the opening, as the freedom of the anastomoses round the elbow might cause failure of the treatment by proximal ligature. If the incisions be well planned and efiicient antiseptic treatment adopted there is little danger of causing any permanent damage to the limb. In a case of traumatic aneurism of the radial, just above the wrist, that came under my care, the sac had twice been laid open : the upper end of the radial had been tied; but attempts made to secure the distal end of the artery had been ineffectual, the result being a return of the aneurism, though in a small and more circumscribed form. This I cured by the apphcation of pressure, by means of a small screw-tourniquet attached to a splint, to the radial artery where it lies between the extensor tendons of the thumb, the recurrent aneurism in this case being entirely fed by blood brought to its distal side through the deep palmar arch. Wounds of the Palmar Arches not unfrequently occur from the breaking of glass or china in the hand, or stabs from some pointed instrument, and are always troublesome to manage. If the Surgeon sees the case shortly after the infliction of the wound, he may endeavour, by carefully enlarging the aperture, with due attention to the tendons and nerves, to reach the bleeding vessel. If the s'lqm-ficial arch be wounded, no difficulty will be found in securing it, but if it be the deep, he is very likely to fail. In some cases the artery can be seized in a pair of forcipressure-forceps, which may be left in the wound for twenty-four hours and then carefully removed. Under any circumstances, no effort should be spared to secure the vessel without using the graduated compress. One of the chief dangers of incisions into the palm of the hand is the occurrence of suppuration, extending to the synovial sheaths of the flexor tendons. It is thei-efore very important that such wounds should be treated antiseptically, well drained, and preserved from every source of irritation. A graduated compress by its pressure causes considerable irritation, and inter- feres with drainage. Moreover, if a compress is applied with sufficient force to stop the flow of blood through the artery, it must necessarily render the whole area it presses on bloodless. If, therefore, a compress be applied efficiently, and kept on, as is sometimes recommended, for three or four days it must inevitably cause gangrene of the tissues with which it has been in contact ; or, supposing the tissues are not quite dead, acute inflammation will set in as soon as the blood is admitted to them. This has but too often been the experience of Surgeons after the use of the compress • when it has been removed, a foul sloughing wound has been brought into view with^ diffuse inflammation spreading round it. Under these circumstances secondarv hEemorrhage is very likely to occur. VOL. I. I I