724 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. over the carbolic gauze dressing or over the carbolic oil, but it can hardly be efficiently employed over iodoform or sahcylic wool; and this, perhaps, in some cases forms an objection to tlieir use. Care must always be taken not to soak the dressing with water oozing through a half-putrid bladder ; the india- rubber ice-cap should be used when possible, or if that be not at hand a com- mon sponge-bag will answer the purpose fairly well. The bowels should be well opened, and the room kept cool and quiet. Should any symptoms of inflammation of the brain make their appearance, free, and if need be, repeated bleeding is, perhaps, of more service than any other means, and should never be omitted, except in feeble, very young, or aged subjects. Simple fissured fi-actures of the vault of the skull in infants and young children are, in rare cases, followed by the formation of a fluctuating tumour under the scalp containing cerebro-spinal fluid. Such cases have been recorded by W. Haward, R. C. Lucas, T. Smith, E. J. Godlee and others, and P. S. Conner has suggested the name of Traumatic Cephalhydrocele for the condition. The tumour becomes tense when the child cries, and can be slightly diminished by pressure, but not without causing some signs of cerebral disturbance. In most cases it pulsates distinctly, synchronously with the heart. The tumour has usually appeared soon after the injury, and has often been mistaken at first for a cephalhgematoma. According to Conner about half the recorded cases have recovered, but the patients have been left with more or less marked irritability of temper or other signs of cerebral mischief. The remainder died sooner or later, usually with symptoms of meningitis. In a few cases the child has been the subject of chronic hydrocephalus, although in this condition the thinned and expanded cranial bones being at the same time preternaturally elastic and mobile, are seldom fractured. In one case however that was under my care, a hydrocephalic child fell from the top of a house on to its head, and sus- tained a long fracture through the left side of the skull, but without any scalp wound. Shortly after the accident, a large soft fluctuating tumoui' formed under the scalp opposite the line of fracture ; and, on this being tapped, about three ounces of cerebro-spinal fluid were drawn off. This operation was repeated, but the child died about ten days after the injury, with hemiplegia of the opposite side, and convulsions. In the fatal cases a fissured fracture has been found most commonly in the parietal, temporal and frontal regions. In several the fracture was gaping to the extent of half an inch or more, and in these the margins of the fissure seem to have been absorbed and not merely to have been separated by intracranial pressure. In all cases the dura mater was torn in the line of the fissure, a condition which is not to be wondered at when we consider the firm adhesion of that membrane to the bone in young children. In •a majority of the cases the brain substance beneath the fissure was also lacerated, and in some even to the extent of opening up the descending cornu of the lateral sinus. In these cases there can be no doubt that the fluid in the tumour is derived from the subarachnoid space. The ireat- mmt of this condition is very unsatisfactory, and from the evidence before ns it seems much better to leave the tumour to nature unless it threatens to give way, which does not seem a common accident. The tumour may then be aspirated, and if this fails to do any good, as it probably will, a small puncture may be made and a fine drainage tube inserted as a last resource. Fractuee of the Base of the Skull.—The most serious, and indeed a