A THE ROM A TO US C YSTS. looy epithelial cells is found closely resembling the deeper layers of the epidermis ; further from the wall these assume a more flattened form ; then they become filled with fat granules, and finally break down into a fatty granular mass (Fig. 351). The atheromatous mass forming the contents of the cyst is com- posed of this fatty debris. If examined when freshly removed from a tumour,^ it will be found to be soft, creamy, pultaceous, or sometimes cheesy-looking, of a yellowish white colour. Sometimes in old cysts it becomes dry and laminated, looking not unlike Parmesan cheese. In some cysts of old standing and large size, the contents may be semi-fluid, the more liquid parts being of a brown, green, or blackish tint, and having a very offensive sour smell. These various contents are composed of sebaceous matter, mixed in various propor- tions with epithelial scales, fat granules, and cholesterine (Fig. 350). Some- times the wall sends fibrous septa towards the centre of the cyst, apparently representing the remains of the tissue between the acini of the follicle ; but true papillEe or hair-follicles are never found in cysts due to obstruction of the excretory ducts of a sebaceous follicle. Occasionally a part of the cyst-wall may undergo calcification, and calcareous particles may be found among its contents (Fig. 350 b). Malherbe has described a true ossification of the cyst- wall with calcification of the epithelium cells. This is rare, and the tumours have been described as osteomata of the skin before their true nature was understood. Some forms of cysts of new formation closely resemble those just described in their contents and naked-eye appearances, bub differ from them in the.structure of their walls, which is that of true skin. These will be referred to again under " dermoid cysts." : Progress.—The growth of these tumours is often very slow ; but not un- rrequently, after remaining stationary for years, they increase rather rapidly. The tumour itself, though painless, may give rise to uneasy sensations, by compressing nerves in its vicijnity"; it usually continues to grow slowly, until the patient, being annoyed by its presence, has it removed by operation. If left untouched, it occasionally, though rarely, happens that the sebaceous matter, exuding through an aperture on its surface, forms a kind of scab or crust, which by a process of sub-deposition becomes conical ; and, being gradually pushed up from below, at the same time that it assumes by exposure a dark brown colour, forms an excrescence that looks like a horn, and is usually considered to be of that character. These " horns " have been met with on the head, on the buttock, and in other situations. The accompanying drawing (Fig. 352), is taken from a child four years old, brought to me to have its horn removed ; a woman also once applied to me with one about an inch and a half long, growing from the upper lip. In other cases, these tumours inflame and suppurate ; the skin coverino- them becomes adherent and reddened, ulceration takes places, and, if the cyst be small and dense, it may be destroyed by suppuration around it. If it be larger, ulceration of the integuments covering it takes place, and the sebaceous matter is exposed ; this may then putrefy, become horribly offensive, and break away in unhealthy suppuration. In other cases, peculiar changes take place in the cyst-wall : large granulations are thrown out in it, and the cyst- wall appears to vascularize, becoming irregular and nodulated, rising up in tuberous growths with everted edges, exuding a foetid discharge, becoming adherent to subjacent parts, and assuming a malignant appearance, forming a"t last a sore as large as a saucer (Fig. 353). Cysts that have undergone this