515 TREATMENT OF WOUNDED JOINTS. and the continuous application of dry cold. In this way inflammation may be prevented, and union of the wound take place under the plaster ; but in the majority of cases the injury is followed by so abundant a secretion of synovia that the dressing becomes loosened by the tension and outward pressure of the accumulated fluid which escapes from under it. If, while the dressing- remains adherent, the preventive means fail to arrest inflammation, and the joint swell, becoming red, hot, and throbbing, with some constitutional dis- turbance, the cold applications must be removed and heat substituted in the form of fomentations. The synovial cavity should then be emptied by means of the aspirator. If the fluid that is withdrawn be merely turbid synovia, the hot fomentations may be continued. Opium may be given to alleviate pain. In this way the symptoms may be relieved and the joint recover. Should the fluid withdrawn be pure pus, or contain a large proportion of pus, it is useless any longer to attempt the closure of the wound. When suppuration has come on, long and free incisions should be made into the joint, on each side, if possible, and at the most dependent part of the capsule, so as to allow a ready exit to the pus. If this be done thoroughly, and perfect rest maintained afterwards, the symptoms are immediately relieved, and ultimately recovery may take place, usually with ankylosis, but occasionally with some degree of mobility. Small incisions into the joint are worse than useless; by a small incision the pus cannot be evacuated from a deep and com- plicated joint, but air is admitted, and the result is to favour the decompo- sition of the discharges, and to cause severe septic fever and possibly pyaemia; by making free and early incisions, however, and thus establishing perfect drainage, but little decomposable matter is left in the cavity of the joint, and the evils of decomposition are reduced to a minimum. The complete relief of tension effected by such incisions reduces the local inflammation and saves the patient much pain. After the incisions have been made, it is better to avoid poulticing or simple water-dressing, as these favour putrefaction. The wound must be syringed with some antiseptic solution, as Condy's fl.uid, carbolic lotion (1 in 40), perchloride of mercury (1 in 2000), or tincture of iodine and water (5ij to Oj), and it must be dressed with carbolic oil (1 in 10), or terebene and oil (1 in 6), or a strong lead and spirit lotion. If boric acid lint be at hand, it forms a most efficient dressing, applied warm hke a poultice and changed frequently. In the absence of all antiseptic material the open treat- ment, or the simple application of oil or lard, will be the best. If the case proceed favourably, the discharge will gradually lessen, and the constitutional disturbance subside. The joint must then be placed in such a position, that, when ankylosis results, the limb may be serviceable to the patient. If, how- ever, as very frequently happens when the larger joints are wounded, the suppuration within the articulation, and the abscesses that form outside it, reduce the patient to a hectic state, secondary amputation speedily becomes inevitable. Wounds of Individual Joints.—To the preceding general principles I have little to add with respect to wounds of individual joints. The Hip and Shoulder are so deeply placed, and so well protected, that they can scarcely be wounded except as the result of gun-shot injury, the treatment of which has already been discussed (pp. 3G0, aGO). Wound of the Knee-joint is one of the most common and most severe of such injuries. Those caused by gun-shot violence have already been L L 2