72 AMPUTATIONS. forearm it prevents the union of the divided ends of the bones and ensures a considerable degree of pronation and supination in the stump. The bone having been properly cleared and the soft parts firmly retracted, the saw is applied to the highest point exposed. In order to saw the bone quickly and steadily, the first cut should be made so as to form a deep groove to receive the teeth : to do this, the heel of the saw is steadied against the left thumb, which is pressed on the bone, and the whole length of the instrument is sharply drawn across the bone. The groove thus formed receives the edge of the saw : and the bone may then be quickly cut through by long, light, and sweeping movements of the instrument. The assistant must carefully support the "part to be removed ; neither depressing it so as to snap the bone as it is weakened by sawing ; nor raising it so as to lock the saw. In sawmg a single bone the position of the saw is gradually changed from the horizontal to the vertical, the bone being then less likely to break if the limb be improperly supported. When there are two bones of equal strength in the limb, as m the forearm, they should be cut through at the same time : but in the leg, the fibula, being the weaker, should always be first divided. Should the division^ be made irregularly, and splinters of bone project, these must be snipped off with cutting-pHers. In performing an amputation, the preparations directed on page 40 must be accurately carried out. The Surgeon must see that the Amputating Instruments are in proper order, and of good construction. For the smaller amputations straight bistouries, narrow or broad in the blade according to the size of the part to be removed, will be required. Scalpels, also, not too broad in the blade, are useful in cases in which the bistoury, from its length, might be inconvenient. Cutting-pliers, with long, strong handles and short blades, either straight or curved, are especially required in amputations about the hands and feet. The knives for the larger amputations should have smooth ebony or steel liandles, and be well balanced. The back of the blade should run straight to the point, and be well rounded. The edge should taper off towards the point, with a good convexity. The breadth of the blade should be from three-fifths to two-thirds of an inch, and its length should be proportioned to the size of the limb to be removed. In operating by transfixion in order to make a good sweeping cut, so as to form a well-rounded and smooth flap, the blade should as a general rule be about equal in length to double the diameter of the limb. For raising the flaps by dissection many Surgeons prefer shorter knives. The saw should be strong in the blade and back so as not to bend in cutting. The blade must be of good breadth, and its teeth must be well set, so that it shall not hang as it works its way through the bone. Artery-forceps of the ordinary bull-dog kind, and torsion-forceps will be required ; and some dozen or more of forcipressure-forceps should always be ready for the tem- porary arrest of hjeinorrhage from the smaller vessels while the larger are being secured. . , , , j ^-u ^ . The Arrest of Hemorrhage.—After the hmb has been removed the first thing to be done is to restrain arterial hemorrhage. The vessels are to be secured by some of the means described in Chapter XIV. The means most commonly adopted in the present day are torsion and ligature with prepared catgut or fine silk, which may be left in the wound without fear of after-trouble. Whatever means of arresting haemorrhage are adopted, all vessels visible on the surface of the flaps should be secured before the tourniquet is removed, the