SARCOMATOUS BLOOD-CYSTS. 1045 forniwS of tumour. The secondary growths occur in every orofan and tissue of the body, and they may apparently be propagated entirely by the vascular system, the lymphatic glands escaping any contamination, or they may be distributed by both the vascular and the lymphatic systems. It may be broadly stated that if a melanotic sarcoma reach the size of a filbert, secondary deposits have in all probability occurred, and no local treatment can cure the patient, although, by relieving him of one source of infection, it may retard death. Although showing this terrible general malignancy, the local malignancy of melanotic sarcoma is not great. It may reach a large size without ulcerating ; it is frequently distinctly encapsuled, and, if removed freely, often does not return in the scar. The secondary tumours form in every part of the body ; constantly in the lungs and liver, almost constantly in the brain and spinal cord, spleen, kidneys, and subcutaneous tissue ; very often in the heart, intestines, medulla of bones, and lymphatic glands. Like the cells of the primary tumour, some of the secondary growths are found to be pigmented and some not. The diagnosis of melanotic sarcoma is made by the colour and rapidity of the growth. It must not be confounded with the simple pigmented wart. This is always of slow growth, more or less firm, pedunculated and lobulated. It must be remembered, however, that melanotic sarcoma may start from a wart of this kind, or from a congenital mole. As to true melanotic cancer, that is to say pigmented encephaloid or epithelioma, it is doubtful if such a growth exists ; at any rate, it must be of extreme rarity. The only Trmtment of melanotic sarcoma is the immediate removal of the tumour, unless secondary tumours can already be recognized. Psammoma is a rare form of tumour found only in connection with the membranes of the brain. The chief characteristic of this growth is the presence of small concentric calcareous globules, the so-called " brain-sand." The tumour is composed chiefly of peculiar flattened cells. It gives rise to no symptoms, except in infinitely rare cases. Sarcomatous Blood-cysts or Haematomata. — Tumours have fre- quently been described under the name of " blood-cysts," of which the most characteristic feature is the presence of a large collection of fluid or partly coagulated blood in a cyst, the walls of which are imperfectly defined. If the blood is evacuated by puncture or incision, free hgemorrhage, difficult to Vig. 385.—Melanotic Sarcoma, from a Secondary Tumour in the Heart. Figure to left (188 diani.) shows the different degrees of pigmentation and variety of shape in the different cells. Figure to right (454 diam.), from a fresh scraping, illustrates the differ- ences ill the size of the pigment granules. Fig. 386.—Melanotic Sarcoma of Eye- natural size. The eye has been divided in the antero-posterior diameter. The tumour started from the choroid and afterwards burst through the sclerotic.