REDUCTION OF SIMPLE FRACTURE. 533 made for the treatment of the fracture. If the case be one of severe fi-acture of the upper extremity, or of any kind in the lower hmb, the Surgeon must see that the bed, on which the patient may have to remain for some weeks, is properly prepared, by being made hard, flat, and firm, and, if possible, covered with a horse-hair mattress. He must then remove the patient's clothes, ripping them along the seams, so that they may be taken off with as httle disturbance as possible to the injured part. He next proceeds to the examina- tion of the limb, using all possible gentleness consistent with acquiring an exact knowledge of the fracture, after which, the limb should be again placed in a comfortable position, until any necessary apparatus has been prepared. Reduction.—When all is ready, the reduction of the fracture, or the bringing the fragments into proper apposition, must be proceeded with. This should be done at once, not only lest any displacement that exists may continue permanently—the muscles, after a few days, becoming shortened, rigid, and unyielding, not allowing reduction to be effected without the employment of great force—but also with the view of preventing irritation and mischief to the'limb, by the projection of the jagged ends of bone into the soft structures. A great deal of time is sometimes lost, and much un- necessary pain inflicted upon the patient, and great irritation set up in the limb, by the Surgeon leaving the fracture unreduced on a pillow for several days, and applying evaporating lotions to take down the swelling and avert the threatened inflammation, which are consequences of the non-reduction of the broken bone. The application of cold lotions, irrigation, &c., in com- pound or even in simple fractures, is decidedly injurious. It lowers the vitality of the part, retards union, and occasions oedema. By early reduction we may sometimes prevent a sharp fragment from perforating the skin, and thus rendering a simple fracture compound, or lacerating muscles and nerves, inducing perhaps traumatic delirium and certainly undue local inflammation and muscular spasm. In reducing a fracture our principal difficulty is caused by the action of the muscles. This may usually be overcome by relaxing them by position, after which the fragments will, in most cases, naturally fall into place. In the reduction of ordinary fractures, no force is necessary if proper attention be paid to the relaxation of the muscles chiefly concerned in producing the deformity. In impacted fractures it is occasionally necessary to use force in order to disentangle the fragments, but this is the only form of fracture in which its employment is justifiable. In effecting the reduction, not only must the length of the limb be restored, but its natural curves must not be obhterated by making it too straight. Muscular action being the chief, and, in most cases, the only obstacle to reduction, it would seem most natural to overcome the difficulty by administering an anaesthetic, which would at the same time save the patient the severe pain usually attending the setting of a broken bone. It is a rule, however, in reducing a simple fracture, to avoid anesthetics. We never can tell beforehand whether or not insensibihty will be preceded by a violent fit of struggling, during wliich there would be the greatest possible danger of a simple fracture being made compound. If from any reason, such as the nervousness of the patient, or the difficulty in overcoming the muscular action by position, it becomes necessary to give an ansesthetic, there must be plenty of assistants at hand to restrain the patient if necessary. The limb