RELATION OF MICRO-ORGANISMS TO SUPPURATION. 245 acute lobar pneumonia, has also been met with in acute abscesses in the brain, joints and other parts usually in connection with pneumonia. It forms short rods, or sometimes chains surrounded by a clear capsule soluble in alkalies. ^ The above are the chief " pyogenic organisms " met with hi surgical practice. The Bacillus pyocijaneiis, or the organism of blue pus, is met with only on dressings, or in discharges from open wounds. Many other organisms besides the above mentioned possess pyogenic pro- perties, such as the micro-organism of gonorrhoea—the gonococcus—the bacillus of glanders, etc. These will be described with the diseases with which they are associated. The proof of the Pijogenie properties of Micro-organisms.—The proof of the pyogenic properties of micro-organisms is derived, first, from the constant association of micro-organisms with suppuration; and secondly, from the experimental inoculation of the organisms, cultivated out of the body for several generations in order to get rid of any contamination from the fluid or solid constituents of the original pus. The results of these experiments have varied Avith the mode of inoculation, the quantity injected, and the animal experimented on. Simple inoculation of the staphylococci on the skin in animals is usually without result. Subcutaneous injection of a cultivation made into an emul- sion with a sterilised fluid produces abscesses in guinea-pigs, rabbits, dogs and mice, but in order to obtain this result it is necessary to inject a sufficient quantity. A small quantity, that is to say, a limited number of the organisms, can be destroyed by the living tissues, and consequently, though a limited inflammation and exudation may take place, an abscess is not formed. Intra- venous injections, if in sufficient quantity, cause rapid death with symptoms similar to those of septic poisoning, and after death the presence of the organisms in the lilood has been demonstrated. A smaller dose may be fatal in a few days, and on examining the animal after death, small vessels in many parts of the body, especially in-the kidney and spleen, may be found to be plugged with masses of the micrococci round which small collections of pus may form. In some experiments, though not constantly, suppuration has been induced in subcutaneous injuries, such as fractures, by injecting the organisms into the blood-stream after the injury has been inflicted. In man, small subcutaneous abscesses have frequently been caused by the inoculation of the micro-organisms, and Garre excited acute inflammation with the formation of a large crop of boils on the skin of his arm by rubbing into it a gelatine cultivation of the staphylo- coccus aureus derived from a case of acute necrosis of bone. These results have clearly proved the pyogenic properties of the micro-organisms above mentioned. The Mode of Action of the 3Iicro-orf/amsms m causing Suppuration.—The first step in the process of suppuration is that the pyogenic organism shall find its way to the part, which is most commonly previously damaged in some way. In an open wound the organisms may, as before stated, find their way in li-om the air, or from impure water, but it cannot be too strongly insisted upon that pyogenic organisms are in all probability constantly present on the surface of the patient's skin and on the vSurgeon's hands, and that the thorough disinfection of these by soap and water, followed by an efficient chemical antiseptic, is the most important step in the prevention of suppuration. When suppuration takes place subcutaneously, the organisms find their way to the