761 TREATMENT OF CEREBRAL INJURY. A case showing the value of this occurred in University College Hospital a few years ago. ^ The patient had typical symptoms of a lesion in the region of the centre for the right arm following a blow on the head. He was per- fectly conscious and, beyond the weakness of the arm, showed no symptoms of any kind. About the fifth day epileptiform convulsions commenced ; rapidly increasing in frequency and violence, and accompanied by gradual extension of the paralysis to the face and leg. It was evident that unless relief could be speedily given death was inevitable, and the question of trephining was dis- cussed ; but before doing so, bromide of potassium Avas given in full doses. The fits immediately ceased, and within a few days the patient, feeling perfectly well, insisted on leaving the hospital. If in spite of these measures the convulsions become more violent and general, the paralysis more extensive, and the state of insensibility deeper, the question of treatment becomes more anxious. The extension of the mischief may be due to inflammation extending around the laceration, and in this case it is doubtful if much good could be hoped for from trephining. But on the other hand it maybe the effect of non-inflammatory spreading oedema (p. 750), and under these circumstances the removal ol:' the clot surrounding the lacera- tion and the relief of tension by giving exit to the exuded fluid might be pro- ductive of the best results. At any rate, when other means have failed and the patient is evidently going from bad to worse, it is the Surgeon's duty to give him the last chance oflPered by trephining. The operation is, however, more hopeful, and certainly should never be neglected when symptoms of intracranial suppuration supervene at a later period with localized paralysis sufficiently defined to indicate the part of the cortex affected. The guide to the application of the trephine in these cases is the line of the sulcus of Rolando on the side opposite to that in tvhich the paralysis exists. It is thus essential that the Surgeon should be acquainted with a reliable method of ascertaining the position of this sulcus. The upper end of the sulcus of Eolando lies between one and a half and two inches behind the coronal suture, whilst fhe lower end is about one inch behind the same suture. Thane gives the following method for marking the position of the sulcus of Rolando and the fissure of Sylvius on the surface of the head (Fig. 307). A line (A B) is drawn from the infraorbital margin to the centre of the aperture of the ear, and parallel to this the line (C D) from the fronto-malar suture back- wards. On this line mark a point (E) 1^ inch from its commencement, and raise here a perpendicular f inch long. The upper end of this line (Sy) may be called the Sijlvian jmint and marks the place where the anterior branches are given off from the fissure of Sylvius. From the fronto-malar suture, draw a line through the Sylvian point to the parietal eminence ; this lies over the posterior hmb of the fissure of Sylvius. A point (iR) on this line 1 inch behind the Sylvian point is immediately below the lower end of the sulcus of Rolando. The upper end of the sulcus of Rolando (sR) is situated half an inch behind the mid-point between the. root of the nose and the external occipital protu- berance. A line drawn from sR to iR marks the position of the sulcus of Rolando, and forms with the median line anteriorly an angle of 70° or more. The parallel sulcus and the external parieto-nccipital fissure are in a line (F L) drawn from the marginal tubercle of the malar bone to the lambda. The position of the sulcus of Rolando having been defined on the head, the