689 REDUCTION OF DISLOCATED FEMUR. 4. The Anterior Oblique, in which the head of the bone lies behind the anterior inferior ib'ac spine. 5. The Supraspinous, in which the head of the bone hes above the anterior inferior ihac spine, between it and the superior spine. (;. The Everted Dorsal Dislocation, in which the head of the bone lies on the anterior part of the dorsum, behind the anterior inferior iliac spine, [n the two last forms the outer branch of the ilio-femoral ligament is ruptured. The Mechanism of the Production of these various dislocations has been much discussed. It is generally recognised that in the thyroid and pubic dislocations the limb is abducted at the time of the injury, and that the head of the bone leaves the capsule in a downward direction, passing through the thinnest part of the capsule, the position it afterwards assumes being due to the direction of the 'force applied to the abducted limb. Astley Cooper believed that in the dorsal dislocation the limb at the time of the accident is adducted and flexed, and that the head of the bone leaves the acetabulum in a direction directly backwards. Henry Morris, who has investigated this subject both by experiment and by observation of specimens, has come to the conclusion that in all dislocations the head of the bone leaves the capsule in a down- ward direction, while the limb is ' ah ducted. He is of opinion that with few exceptions all dislocations are primarily the same, that is to say, down- wards, the subsequent position of the bone being determined by the degree of flexion and rotation to which the limb is exposed. Thus the posterior dis- location results from flexion and rotation inwards accompanying the abduction, and the anterior or pubic from rotation outwards and extension accompanying the abduction, while the downward dislocations result from forced abduction alone. That this explanation is true of the great majority of dislocations is highly probable, but there are recorded cases to show that a dorsal dislocation may occur in the way described by Astley Cooper, directly backwards during flexion and adduction. With regard to the Relative Frequency of the various forms of disloca- tion, Astley Cooper says that of 20 cases of dislocation of the hip, 12 will, on the average, be on the dorsum ilii (above the tendon of the obturator internus of Bigelow), 5 on the sciatic notch (below the tendon of the obturator internus), 2 on the thyroid foramen, and 1 o» the pubic bone. Hamilton states that, excluding anomalous cases, of 104 dislocations wdiich he has collected, 55 were on the dorsum ilii, 28 into the sciatic notch (below the tendon of the obturator internus), 13 into the thyroid foramen, and S upon the pubes. In the Reduction of dislocations of the hip-joint, two methods may be employed, extensmi or manipuJalion. In extension, forcible traction is made by pulleys or otherwise in the direction of the axis of the limb, overcoming by main force any obstacle arising from muscular contraction or the mechanical resistance of ligaments. In manipulation force is avoided, the Surgeon's object being to relax the ligaments which oifer a mechanical obstruction to reduction, and to disentangle the head of the bone from its abnormal position, and by impressing on it various rotatory movements, each adapted to the particular case, to bring it back into the acetabulum. Manipulation is mentioned by Hippocrates. The earliest modern description is by Thomas Anderson, Surgeon, of Leith, in the third volume of " The Medical and Philosophical Com- VOL. I. Y Y