CARCINOMATA 1047 V. TUMOURS COMPOSED OF CELLS OF AN EPITHELIAL TYPE ARRANGED IN SPACES IN A STROMA CONSISTING OF MORE OR LESS PERFECXL^ DEVELOPED FIBROUS TISSUE. The members of this group constitute the Carcinomata or Cancers, and are uniformly malignant. Before proceeding to the individual groAvths forming this class, it will be desirable to say a few words upon the subject of cancer generally. The term has been very vaguely applied, the older pathologists placing under this class all malignant growths ; thus all malignant sarcomata were formerly considered to be cancers. Statistics and general statements with regard to " cancer" which date back beyond 1870 must therefore be taken to refer to malignant tumours in general and not to what we now recognize as true cancers. Although the various forms of cancer differ greatly from each other in structure, they all possess certain features in common. The essential element of every cancer is an exuberant growth of epithehum. Every exuberant growth of epithehum is not, however, a cancer. The distinguishing feature of carcinoma is that the epithelium no longer merely covers a surface or lines the acinus of a gland as in its normal state, but forces its way into deeper structures or surrounding parts. The advancing cells form bud-like pro- cesses or columns which communicate with each other by lateral branches. At the growing edge of any cancer these processes of cells can be seen advancing into the spaces of the tissue into which the growth is spreading. The pressure of the new growth, and possibly some chemical substance derived fi-om it, irritate the surrounding tissues to such a degree that they become infiltrated with small round cells. These have all the appearances of migrating white corpuscles, but it is not impossible that they may in part arise from multiplication of the cells of the connective tissue. In some forms of cancer in which the epithelial cells are small and rounded, it is not easy to distinguish these from the surrounding small round cells, and thus there has been much diversity of opinion as to the origin of the cells of cancer ; but in other varieties, as the squamous carcinoma, the different forms of cells are easily recognized, and in these there can be no doubt that the cancer cells arise from the pre-existing epithelium. If we examine a portion of a cancerous tumour, in which the structure is fully developed, we find that the original tissues of the part which has been invaded by the growth have disappeared during the process of small round cell infiltration, and that a new connective tissue has been formed which surrounds the branching columns of epithelium cells. We have thus developed an alveolar stroma, the spaces of which are filled with cells of an epithelial type, and this forms the characteristic structure of a carcinoma. The fibrous stroma must be looked upon as an essential element in the struc- ture of the growth, and not merely as the remains of the connective tissue of the part which the cancer cells are invading. As in normal glands or epithelium- covered structures, the line of demarcation between the epithelium and the stroma is sharply defined ; the cells lie closely in contact with each other with- out vessels or stroma penetrating between them. They are but loosely con- nected with the stroma and with one another, and in many cases are separated from each other by a very small quantity of fluid. If a thin section of a carcinoma be gently brushed under water with a camel's hair pencil, or shaken in a test-tube half full of water, the cells may be washed away and the stroma