355 TREATMENT OF GUN-SHOT WOUNDS. probe armed with a piece of unglazed porcelain down to the suspected site of the bullet, and noting the streak of lead left on the rough surface. Bullet- detectors have also been contrived, in w^hich, by an arrangement of two in- sulated metal probes in a cannula connected with a galvanometer, the galvanic circuit is completed when the bullet is touched, and the needle of the gal- vanometer deflected ; or, instead of the latter instrument, the ordinary telegraph alarum may be interposed, the bell of which rings when the circuit is completed by the bullet or any other metallic body being touched. These various contrivances are more ingenious than practical, and may be looked upon as surgical toys rather than as useful instruments. For the removal of bullets, long and strong forceps are required, the action of which may be aided by a screw probe. The splinters produced by the passage of a ball through a bone are more numerous and larger when the injury has been inflicted by a conical rifle- ball. The impetus of this projectile is so great, and its wedge-like action so destructive, that the bone struck is shattered into a number of fragments, as well as split longitudinally, often to a great extent. These fragments are detached to a greater or less extent from their connections with the soft parts, and carried out of the axis of the limb. Dupuytren, who was fond of systema- tizing, classified splinters of this kind under the three heads of primary, secondarii, and tertiary. Primary splinters are carried completely across the limb, detached from the soft parts, and lodged near the aperture of exit. Secondary splinters remain still attached by a strip of periosteum or fibrous tissue ; tertiary are those portions of bone which, from the violence done to them, often necrose and separate at a subsequent period. The treatment of these different kinds of splinters must necessarily vary. The primary, which are already completely detached and are incapable of consolidation, must be treated as foreign bodies and extracted. The secondary, if very loose, must also be removed ; but, if more firmly fixed, they may be pushed into the axis of the injured bone and left, when they may become consolidated by callus, and so serve in the reconstruction of the bone. The tertiary, which do not separate until after about six or seven weeks, must be removed as soon as possible ; if they become engaged in a mass of callus, it may be a considerable time before they are loose enough to be removed ; and, until then, sinuses leading down to them will remain open even for years. The reunion of comminuted gun-shot fractures may, in appropriate cases, be assisted by resection of the fractured ends of the bones. This plan has been especially successful in the bones of the upper extremities. After re- section of the ends the fragments may be kept in apposition by metallic sutures, as suggested by Howard, of the American army. In those cases in which small shot are lodged under the skin, they may be turned out by being cut down to with a fine scalpel; when more deeply lodged, no attempt should be made to extract them. The Treatment of the Wound itself must be conducted on ordinary surgical principles. As has already been stated, there will, as a rule, be violent inflammation and sloughing along the whole track of the ball, unless decom- position can be prevented ; although instances have been recorded of primary union in gun-shot wounds, uncomplicated with fracture or the lodgment of foreign bodies, even without any special mode of antiseptic treatment. The principal points to be attended to are: to limit inflammation by rest, drainage, A A 2