1019 SOFT FIBROMATA. The term "fibroma" is, however, apph'ed only to those tumours in which fibrous or areolar tissue forms by far the most abundant constituent, and in which all the cells are of the type of connective-tissue corpuscles, and uniformly dis- tributed amongst the fibres. As before stated, no sharp line can be drawn between fibroma and sarcoma, and the term " fibro-sarcoma" is frequently applied to those tumours in the border-land between the two. Fibromata may be divided into two chief classes :—1. Soft fibromata, areolar tumours, and fibro-cellular tumours ; 2. Firm fibromata, desmoid tumours, and fibroid tumours. 1. Soft Fibromata—These may be diflfiised or circumscribed ; in some cases they are distinctly encapsuled. The diffused variety or areolar tumours are little more than a simple hyperplasia of the subcutaneous or submucous areolar tissue. They are represented by pendulous fleshy growths, forming large tumours, commonly called Wens, which may occur on any part of the surface. They are smooth, pedunculated, non-elastic, pendulous, and movable, slowly f il increasing without pain often to a very ^ \ great size. They are thinly covered with skin, bearing abundant papillae, and some- times enlarged sweat-glands and hair-follicles. Large vessels may ramify on the surface, and occasionally the sldn is pigmented. They are sometimes congenital. In the disease known as moUuscum fibrosum these tumours form pedanculated masses or rolls, hanging from the skin of the buttocks, thighs, and other parts of the body, and may attain such a size as seriously to inconvenience the patient by their weight. These masses are composed merely of connective tissue, sometimes dry and tough, sometimes oede- matous. They contain large blood-vessels, irequently of such size as to render removal of the growth a most hazardous operation. In the Treatment of these affections, pressure and iodine applications may be tried in the earlier stages, with the view, if possible, of checking their growth ; at a later period they must, if large, be removed by operation, though this procedure is at times an extremely severe one, owing to their great size and vascularity. Tumours of the circumscribed variety, described by Paget as fibro-cellular, are not of common occurrence ; and when met with they are most frequently found in the scrotum, the labium, the deep muscular interspaces of the thigh or axilla, and on the scalp, in which situation they may form large masses, sometimes weighing many pounds. When seated in the subcutaneous tissue these tumoui's may become pedunculated, as in Fig. 359, which represents a tumour of this kind which I removed from the side of a woman. I have removed one weighing nearly four pounds from the axilla of a woman, where it lay between the serratus magnus and the ribs. When they occur about the scrotum and labium, these tumours must not be confounded with