MORTALITY AFTER TREPHINING. 7S5 wound, which is of the greatest importance, is favoured by this mode of treat- ment. Some thoroughly efficient antiseptic dressing must then be applied. The carbolic gauze, besides being very safe, has the advantage that cold can be applied over it, which cannot be efficiently done over cotton-wool dressings. If the Surgeon is called upon to trephine with no antiseptic materials at hand, as may happen in military surgery, he should avoid the use of water ; he may wipe away the blood with dry lint, and ajjply a dry dressing after- wards. By this means he Avill give the patient the best chance of escaping putrefaction of the discharges and septic meningitis in those cases in which the dura mater is wounded. There are certain parts of the skull—over the venous sinuses, for instance, and near the base—to which no Surgeon Avould apply the instrument if it could possibly be avoided. If it were ever thought necessary to trephine at the ii'ontal sinuses, the outer table must first be removed with a large crown, and the inner table sawn out with a smaller one. The escape of cerebro-spinal fluid through a trephine aperture is a remark- able occurrence. In one such case recorded by Clement Lucas, the cerebro- spinal fluid began to escape the day after the operation. The patient, however, so far recovered as to be on the point of leaving the Hospital, when erysipelas set in, and he died of acute meningitis. After death, the track of damaged brain was found leading to the ventricle from which the fluid had escaped through the scalp. This case confirms the statement made by Clement Lucas, that when cerebro-spinal fluid escapes through the calvaria, the ventri- cular cavity of the brain has always been opened. Death after the operation of trephining, when it occurs, is commonly the result of the condition for the relief of which the operation was undertaken, or of septic meningitis. As the Surgeons of former days never published statistics, we have nothing to show us the mortality that followed tre- phining in their times, when it was undertaken very recklessly, as we should now think; but it seems improbable that an operation so lightly undertaken could have been very fatal. The good results would appear to have been due to two causes—first, a large number of the cases in which it was done were uncomplicated by serious injury or disease of the brain ; and secondly, the drainage after the operation must have been very perfect, as the piece of scalp corresponding to the bone removed was also taken away, the wound being left to heal by granulation. In this century, before the introduction of antiseptic treatment, the death rate was very high. Of 17 cases in which the trephine proper was used at University College Hospital, by Cooper, Listen, and myself, 6 patients recovered, 1 other died of injury of the spine unconnected with the operation, and the remaining 10 died from various causes. In the late American Civil War, the. results were more satisfectory than the previous experience of Army Suro'eons would have led us to hope. Of 107 cases of trephining, 47 recovered t and of 114 cases where fragments of bones were removed by the forceps and elevator, without the use of the trephine, 53 recovered. The introduction of antiseptic surgery has greatly reduced the mortality especially in cases in which the dura mater is wounded. Kramer gives the following results obtained from published cases and the reports of hospitals in which the antiseptic system has been adopted. Of 25 cases in which primary VOL. I. . 3 E