LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. 226- mttammation in their clinical features, that some pathologists have hesitated to apply that term to them. But they resemble inflammation in being the result of irritation, and in being characterised by a diminished vitality of the affected part, as indicated by the readiness with which a slight injury converts the chronic process into an acute inflammation of the ordinary type. Micro- scopic examination of tissues or organs from diff'erent cases affected in this way shows every possible variation between the infiltration of the connective tissue with innumerable small round cells indistinguishable from the wandering leucocytes of acute inflammation, and the development of a tissue composed of dense rigid-looking fibres between which are found a few elongated cells. In fact, no sharp line can be drawn between acute interstitial inflammation and the chronic form with fibroid induration. In bone, chronic inflammation of this type is shown by thickening of the periosteum and formation of new bone beneath it, by increased density or sclerosis of the compact tissue, with narrowing or obliteration of the Haversian canals, or by condensation of the cancellous tissue. In arteries, the growth takes place chiefly from the outer layer of the inner coat, and the new tissue closely resembles the old in structure. This form of chronic inflammation is, as a rule, accompanied by more or less atrophy and degeneration of the higher tissues, their place being occupied by the overgrown connective-tissue, and for this reason it has been spoken of as a "fibroid substitution." Another common effect of chronic inflammation is ulceration. Except in the slowness of its progress it differs in no respect from that occurring in acute inflammation. The tissues first become infiltrated with new cells, which accumulate and press on the original structures, finally destroying them and taking their place. Then in their turn the destroying cells perish, break down, and come away mixed with serous exudation as pus; and thus a gradual progressive destruction of tissue takes place. Suppuration often assumes a chronic form, as in the case of large abscesses proceeding from the thorax or abdomen, or from deeply-seated diseased joints or bones. The natural ten- dency of all abscesses, as soon as they are opened, is to fill up with granulation- tissue and to close ; but when there is some source of irritation present, as decomposing matter, tension from imperfect drainage, or friction of one surface against another, the granulations break down into pus as quickly as they grow, and the process may thus be prolonged indefinitely, the only limit being the powers of endurance of the patient. In chronic inflammations, although the connective-tissue may, as before described, undergo an increased development, the higher tissues always suffer degenerative changes—partly as a result of the pressure to which they are exposed from the new growth. Thus the tubules or acini of a chronically inflamed gland become obliterated, and muscular fibre in an inflamed muscle undergoes fatty degeneration. In this way the functional activity of organs suffering from chronic inflammation is more or less interfered with. Thus we see that chronic inflammation, although differing widely from acute, does present some analogies to it. The development of increased con- nective-tissue is analogous to the adhesive or productive form of acute inflam- mation, and the formation of a cheesy centre, or a chronic abscess, differs chiefly in its chronicity from the process by Avhich an acute abscess arises, while ulceration and some forms of suppuration are the same processes in both forms of inflammation, differing only in their rate of progress and duration.