777 CEREBRAL ABSCESS: TREATMENT. of acute suppuration in compound depressed fractures or punctured fractures, if no primary operation has been performed, the bone should at once be exposed and the fragments elevated or removed and, if necessary, the opening enlarged with the trephine or chisel. This gives the patient his only chance, but if the case is complicated by septic meningitis the chance is but small. In the chronic and subacute cases following injury with exposure of the bone the Surgeon's duty is equally clear. He should expose the bone thoroughly, and if he finds it bare, yellowish in colour and possibly necrosed, he should at once remove a circle of bone with a large trephine. The opera- tion, if carefully performed, can do no harm, and, if pus has formed, it offers the only chance of saving life. If pus be found beneath the bone the cavity in which it lay should be cleaned out with some efficient antiseptic fluid and dusted with iodoform, after which the wound may be loosely closed, perfect provisio'h being made for drainage, and an antiseptic dressing of some kind applied. The dura mater should be carefully examined, and if a small aperture be found in it this may be enlarged to facilitate drainage. If the pus is immediately beneath the dura mater that membrane will be dull yellowish in colour, and will bulge into the wound, without pulsation. Under these circumstances an incision must be made through it. If pus is reached here it will spirt out with great force. If the pus is more deeply seated in the cerebral substance, the dura mater will appear perfectly healthy and will pulsate as usual. In such a case Dupuytren plunged a bistoury into the substance of the brain and thus luckily relieved the patient from an abscess in this situation. This was doubtless a somewdiat rash thing to do without previously ascertaining the presence of pus by milder means. It is now well known that no harm results from careful puncture of the brain substance with a grooved needle or with the smaller needles of the aspirator. In these cases, therefore, a careful search should be made for the pus by means of a grooved needle or an aspirator. If the latter instrument be used only a partial vacuum should be produced, otherwise the soft cerebral substance will be forced into the needle and choke it. Care must be taken, however, that the needle is pushed straight onwards in the direction intended, all lateral movements being avoided, and in this way several punctures in different parts may safely be made. Hulke in this way detected the presence of an abscess in the frontal lobe of the brain in a boy aged 15, seven weeks after he had received a blow on the forehead causing a small stellate fracture of the outer table of the skull which was not discovered at the time of the accident. The abscess, which was situated about one inch below the surface of the brain, was opened by a knife passed along the aspirator needle and about 5iij of thin greenish pus were evacuated. The boy recovered, but unfor- tunately became completely blind from atrophy of both optic papillse following on neuro-retinitis. Hulke was led to infer the presence of an abscess in this case chiefly by the fact of hemiplegia supervening gradually many weeks after an injury to the head, a symptom to which he attaches much importance. In some cases the presence of locahzing symptoms may indicate the position in which the trephine should be applied. The indications thus afforded must be taken as a more trustworthy guide than the position of the injury. Thus in Macewen's case already mentioned the scalp wound was over the left eyebrow, but the abscess was evacuated pod mortem by trephining over