NECK OF FEMUR—IMPACTED EXTRACAPSULAR 6i5 In the extracapsular fracture of the neck of the femur, death occasionally results from the severity of the injury, and the consequent shock to the system. The extravasation of blood into the tissues of the limb has been known to be sufficient to account for the fatal result. When the patient lives, bony union takes place, large irregular stalactitic masses being commonly thrown out by the inferior fragment, so as to overlap the several splinters of bone and thus give the appearance of great thickening and projection of the trochanter. This callus is most abundant posteriorly in the intertrochanteric space (Fig. 214-). The Impacted Extracapsular Fracture of the neck of the femur occurs when, in consequence of a heavy fall on the hip, the neck is broken across at its root, and the upper fragment is driven into the cancellous structure of the lower one, often splitting up and detaching the trochanter Figs. 211, 21:2.—Sections of Iiiipacteil Extracapsular Fractures of Neck of Femur ; sliowiug tlio degree of Impactiou aud of Splintering in dift'ereut ca.ses. (Figs, 211, 212). It is not an uncommon accident about middle life, and even in old age. Its most common cause is a severe fall, as upon the ice in skating. The Signs of this form of fracture are often somewhat negative, rendering the diagnosis extremely difficult. There \%pain about the hip, with eversion of the foot. The degree of everi'sion varies considerably ; sometimes it is so great that the outer side of the foot can scarcely be raised from the bed without giving the patient intense pain, and in other cases it can be recognized only by the limitation of inversion when contrasted with the opposite limb. There is slight shortening, usually about half an inch, and never exceeding one inch, and occasionally as little as a quarter of an inch. As a rule, there is no crepitus, but occasionally, owing to the looseness of the impaction, some may be obtained with difficulty. When the impaction is firm, the patient can raise the foot a few inches olf the couch on which it is laid, and even walk a short distance upon it with a hobbling motion, though with much pain. Some flattening over the trochanter is usually perceptible—sometimes an increase in breadth from before backwards—and, on pushing the fingers in deeply behind the trochanter, the posterior intertrochanteric fossa can sometimes be felt to be filled up. In consequence of the impaction the limb cannot be restored by traction to its proper length, and hence incurable lameness always results from this injury.