AMPUTATIONS. 92 It is probable that Simpson's figures were not absolutely but only approxi- mately correct, and that certain sources of fallacy had inti'uded themselves, more especially with regard to the condition of the patient hefore the operation, to which undoubtedly greac importance must be attached {vide p. 81). But still, making full allowance for all this, the difference between the two sets of cases is so great, that the conclusion that the mortality after amputation m hospital practice was nearly four times as great as when the same operations were performed out of hospital, cannot be very materially affected ; and it was impossible to escape from the inference that the high hospital mortality was greatly influenced by the exposure of the patient to those septic conditions existing in the air of large hospitals, which have been so ably and graphically described by Parkes, and which exercise the most injurious effect on patients Avith large wounds Avho are exposed to them. That in the absence of efficient antiseptic and hygienic precautions those septic influences may eventually saturate hospitals, and exercise a most im- portant influence in causing fatal pyfemia, septicaemia, and osteomyelitis, after amputations, from which, as has already been shown, a large proportion of those operated on formerly died, is evident from the following considerations: 1. From the commencement of this century up to a comparatively recent period—during what, in fact, may be termed the pre-antiseptic age—no im- provement had taken place in amputation mortality in hospitals. 2. The prevailing high rate of mortality varied greatly in different hospitals in the same town, in which the patients were of the same class of society, followed pretty much the same occupations, and were subjected to the same kinds of injuries and diseases ; the hospitals being officered by Surgeons of equal professional skill, and the only inequality existing being in the different conditions to which the patients were exposed in different hospitals. 3. The difference in the amputation mortality in different London hospitals varied from 18 and 25 to 47 per cent. In Calcutta, the death-rate after thigh amputations varied in different hospitals from 42 to 80 per cent. (Downie). 4. Of late years, this excessive amputation mortality has been greatly reduced in all hospitals. 5. This reduction is contemporaneous with, and, as all the oilier conditions continue as hefore, is dependent upon, the employment of antiseptics in the treatment of wounds, and the greater attention paid to hospital hygiene. 6. In military practice, the rate of mortahty after amputation has been found to be in the direct ratio of the aggregation of the wounded ; and in- fective processes ^of septic origin may to a very great extent be averted by isolation of the patients.