TUMOUBS. 1046 control, or, at least, speedy re-accumulation of the fluid, is the only result. If seated on a limb, free excision of the cyst and its contents, or amputa- tion, is justly looked upon as the only mode of treatment holding out any prospect of success. With regard to the nature of these tumours, it has been shown that in all probability they are, in the great majority of cases, soft sarcomata, broken down by haemorrhage into their structure. The walls of these cysts are formed of a thin layer of sarcoma tissue, either of the round or spindle-celled variety. A very interesting case of this kind came under my care in University College Hospital in 1874. A healthy man, aged 40, had noticed, for about nine months, a soft swelling on the upper and outer part of the leg, which he attributed to a strain. It fluctuated distinctly ; and when I first saw it, a dark red fluid was oozing from two discoloured points. It was altogether about three inches in diameter, and of a dark purple colour. It had previously to admission been treated, first by the passage of a seton, and secondly, by being laid open and dressed from the bottom; which latter treatment had been repeated twice. On both occasions it was reported that nothing but blood escaped. I laid the tumour freely open, and turned out a large quantity of what was apparently ordinary blood-clot and then dissected away the cyst-wall. The supposed blood-clot was found, on microscopic examination, to be composed of a mixture of the cells of a round and spindle-celled sarcoma, with coagulated blood (Fig. ,387). The wall of the cyst was found to be composed of pure sarcomatous tissue. The growth recurred before the wound was completely closed, and amputation at the knee-joint was performed, the patient making a good recovery. Mixed Sarcomata.— Tumours are fre- quently seen which combine in themselves structures properly belonging to two or more distinct forms of growth. Several of these have already been mentioned. Thus the growths standing on the doubtful line between small-spindle-celled sarcoma and fibroma are spoken of as fihro-sarcomata. In very rare cases some of the cells of a sarcoma may develop into true fat cells ; we have then the lipo-sarcoma. Occasionally large tracts of a tumour, the chief part of which is purely sarcomatous, may undergo mucous softening, and the cells may be more or less stellate or branched, as in a myxoma, and we have then the myxosarcoma. As before stated, the tissue between the acini of an adenoma may present exactly the structure of a spindle-celled or even round-celled sarcoma ; these tumours are then sometimes called adeno- sarcomaia. Lastly, the stroma of a cancer may be composed of cells like those of a large-spindle-celled sarcoma. In tumours which are purely sarcomatous it is, moreover, very common to find a mixture of the various kind of cells which have been described as characterizing the diflPerent varieties mentioned in the preceding pages. Fig. 387.—Mixed Round and Spindle- celled Sarcoma, into which Hajnior- rhage has taken place (188 diam.). a. Recent Hseniorrhage. h. Blood-corpuscles becoming gran- ular.