242 SUPPURATION- AND ABSCESS. Fig. 89.—Pus-pells from Acute A1)scess, before and after treatment with acetic acid. (Fig. 80). This breaking up of the nucleus has usually beau regarded as a part of the degeneration of the migrated leucocyte, as the nucleus does not present the peculiar appearances observed in multiplication of cells by division of the nucleus {Icarijohnesis). On the other hand, as before stated (p. 1()8), Metchuikoff asserts that the greater number of migrating leucocytes are polynuclear at the time of migration, ^Yhen they are manifesting their amoeboid and phagocytic properties with the greatest activity. In addition to the granules, which can be cleared up by acetic acid, pus-cells contain a varying number of fat granules formed by fatty degeneration of the proto- plasm. These may be so abundant as to conceal the nucleus after the addition of acetic acid. They are dissolved by ether and liquor potassas. The older the pus the more complete is the fatty degenera- tion and the less the nucleus can be stained by logwood or aniline dyes. Finally, in old collections of pus the cells may break up com- pletely and the granules float free in the liquor puris. It is usually possible to demonstrate the presence of micro-organisms not only free in the liquor puris but in the protoplasm of the pus-cells ; the more degenerate the cells the more difficult it is to do this. In the pus of acute abscesses granular debris derived from the broken-down tissues are usually present, and fibres of yellow elastic tissue, which are the most resisting of all, may sometimes be recognised. Diagnosis of pus from other fluids must be made by the microscope. The presence of the characteristic pus-cell above described is certain proof that the fluid in question is composed in part at least of pus. The relation of Micro-organisms to Suppuration.—It was first shown by Alexander Ogston, of Aberdeen, that the pus of all acute abscesses contains micro-organisms, and his observations have been extended by Rosenbach, Koch, and a large number of other obsei'vers, until it may be said now to be an accepted fact that all acute suppurations with which the Surgeon has to deal, whether superficial or deep, are associated with the presence of micro- organisms. The investigation of this subject has been carried out in three ways :—First, by the direct observation of properly stained and prepared specimens of pus ; secondly, by the cultivation of the organisms in solid or in liquid media ; and lastly, by the inoculation of animals, and, in some cases, of the human subject, with the organisms derived from pus. The important subject of the relation of micro-organisms to suppuration is l)est considered under six headings. First, a description of the organisms most commonly met with in acute suppuration : secondly, the proof of the pyogenic properties of the organisms; thirdly, the mode of action of the organisms and the part they take in causing suppuration ; fourthly, can suppuration occur without the intervention of micro-organisms ? fifthly, can simple septic bacteria give rise to suppuration ? and lastly, what accessory causes commonly aid in the causation of suppuration ? The examination of pus for microscopic organisms has been rendered so simple by the methods introduced by Weigert, and perfected by Koch, and the