ENCHONDROMA. 1023 chondro-sarcoma, that assumes the characters of malignancy. Enchondromata are liable to various secondary changes. Thus they may undergo true ossifi- cation. The ordinary pedunculated or spongy exostosis is usually found to be covered with a thick layer of cartilage, so that it may be spoken of as an ossifying chondroma. Calcification is a far more common change than true ossification (Fig. 362). Not unfrequently mucous softening takes place in the matrix. The cells in this condition float free in the fluid, and undergo degeneration, becoming filled with large globules of fat. This mucous softening may be so extensive as to give the once solid tumour the appearance of a thick- walled cyst. In a case of a very large enchondroma of the ribs under my care a few years ago, I was enabled to make the diagnosis by microscopic ex- amination of a small quantity of such fluid, removed by means of the aspirator. Cartilage may also be found mixed in one tumour with other structures. Thus Figs 3r>2, 363.—Enchondroma (188 diam.). Pig. 362.—From a small tumour near, hut distinct from, an ossitying enchondroma of tlie femur ; shows the variety in shape of the cells and capsules. At the lower part oalciflcation is taking place involving first the matrix and then the cells. Fig. 363.—From an enchondroma of the finger; matrix faintly fibrillated. the cartilaginous tumours of the parotid region are seldom, if ever, pure, but contain mingled together the structures of myxoma, adenoma, and enchon- droma. Enchondroma and sarcoma are not unfrequently found combined. Encephaloid cancer and enchondroma are said to have been found combined in the testis. Cartilaginous tumours when composed of pure cartilage are always benign ; when mixed with embryonic tissue, as in the chondro-sarcoma, they frequently run a malignant course. The simple chondroma occurs as a hard or slightly elastic tumour, ovoid or round in form, sometimes smooth on the surface but more often lobulated, of small or moderate size, seldom exceeding that of an orange, and growing slowly without pain. The chondro-sarcoma grows rapidly, often attaining an enormous size in a few months, and giving rise to secondary growths in internal organs. When cartilaginous tumours attain a large size and soften as above de- scribed, the skin covering them may become duskily inflamed, and eventually slough, forming fistulous openings, through which a thin, jelly-like matter is discharged. Locality.—lAo%t frequently chondroma occurs in connection with some bone. It is most commonly seen in the metacarpus and phalanges of the