139 AMPUTATION AT THE HIP-JOINT. this may readily enough be done by dissecting the head out of the acetabulum with a strong scalpel or bistoury. Results.—The mortality after amputation of the thigh is very considerable when the operation is done for injury, more particularly for compound frac- ture of the femur itself. The mortality in the older stacistics (p. 89) amounted to 59-7 percent. In the more recent statistics of University College Hospital it' is 46*1 per cent. Shock and traumatic gangrene of the stump are the chief causes of death. The result of amputation of the thigh for disease of the knee-joint depends entirely upon whether the af}ection is acute or chronic. In acute suppurative disorganisation of the knee, amputation of the thigh is most fatal : indeed, so high is the rate of mortality, that it is doubtful whether it is proper to perform the operation in that stage of the affection. In chronic knee-joint disease, on the other hand, the operation is most satisfactory and successful; death seldom resulting unless the operation has been deferred too long. The average mortality of complicated and uncomplicated cases together in the older statistics was 32'5 per cent. In the more recent statistics of University College Hospital it is 23-5. Max Schede's statistics, in which complicated cases are excluded, gives 63 cases with only one death. The mortality, as before stated (p. 86), increases as the trunk is approached. Amputation at the Hip-joint.—This formidable operation is of com- paratively recent introduction into surgery. During the early part and middle of the last century its practicability was warmly debated in France. It was performed on animals experimentally. It was found that some patients aifected with ergotism, whose lower extremities had become gangrenous, and had separated at the hip-joint, survived ; and, at last, in the year 1773, the first successful amputation of the kind was performed by Perrault of St. Maure. In the next year, the operation was done in England by Kerr of Northampton, on a girl aged 12, affected with hip-disease and lumbar abscess. The operation was unjustifiable in such a case, but the patient lived 17 days, and thus its practicability was demonstrated. Larrey performed it in 1793 for the first time for gun-shot injury ; and since that time the operation has been established in surgical practice, civil as well as military. The operation was first performed successfully in England in 1812, by Brownrigg of Ply- mouth, on a man whose thigh had been broken in the Peninsular war a year previously. Amputation at the hip-joint has been performed in a variety of ways which it is not necessary to detail. The following will be described: 1. by combined circular and external vertical incisions ; 2. by antero-posterior flaps ; 3. by the oval method. 1. The amputation by combined circular and external vertical inci- sions is that usually known as Furmcmx Jordan's metliod, although the operation, as now performed, differs in many respects from the description given by that Surgeon. The patient's body is drawn well to the edge of the table, and turned slightly on to the sound side. The thigh of that side is secured in the flexed position by two bandages : one attached to the thigh above the knee by a clove-hitch, the two ends of which are passed round the neck and knotted under the arm of the same side ; whilst the second bandafje IS passed round the sound thigh and secured to the leg of the table beneath the patient's head. The circulation through the limb is controlled by