50 GENERAL RE21 AUKS ON OPERATIONS. his career discarded this instrument, commonly employed it during the latter years of his life. The points chosen for the compression of arteries are those at which the vessel is c(^mparatively superficial, and is placed over some bone against which it can be pressed. The following are the chief arteries which the Surgeon may be called upon to compress :— The common carotid can be felt pulsating in front of the sterno- mastoid, and is best compressed by pressing the thumb directly backwards towards the vertebrae opposite the cricoid cartilage (Fig. 14). To steady the liand, the fingei's should gi-asp the back of the neck. If the pressure be applied below the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, the vertebral artery will be compressed at the same time as the carotid. The facial artery is easily compressed against the jaw, where it lies quite superficially immediately in front of the anterior border of the masseter. The fingers may be placed on the opposite side of the jaw to steady the hand, and if necessary, the forefinger may compress the opposite artery. Tn operations Fig. 14.—Compression of the Carotid. Fig. 15.—Compression of both tlie Facial, riglit Temporal, and riglit Subclavian Arteries. upon the nose and hps the assistant may stand behind the patient and com- press both vessels while he holds the head (Fig. 15). The temporal artery is compressed where it can be felt pulsating im- mediately in front of the ear (Fig. 15). The subclavian artery may require compression in the third part of its course in operations in the axilla, or on the shoulder-joint, or in amputations high up in the arm. If digital compression be attempted the fingers should be placed behind the lower part of the neck, with the palm of the hand on the ridge formed by the trapezius. The thumb is then forcibly pressed upon the artery, where it lies on the first rib, immediately external to the outer bordei- of the sterno-mastoid and opposite the most prominent part of the clavicle (Fig. 15). As considerable force is required efficiently to compress this artery, the fingers of the opposite hand may be pressed upon the thumb which is upon the vessel. The patient's head should, if possible, be inclined towards the side on which the artery is being compressed, so as to relax the cervical fascia. As the force required is often so great that the assistant is apt to become fatigued and relax his pressure, it is better to compress the artery with some mechanical contrivance. The most commonly employed is a large door-key. The ring of