SPECIAL FRACTURES. 574 versely above the line of the teeth, so that these and the hard palate could be moved backwards and forwards. She died from a splinter of the roof of the sphenoidal sinus having peuetrated the dura mater. I have, however, known several cases of transverse fracture of one superior maxillary bone do well. In such cases the teeth may be tied together with silver wire or the aid of the dentist may be required to fix the displaced fragments by means of vulcanite moulds. The question of feeding the patient is usually one of difficulty, and the food often requires to be introduced by means of a tube. In Gunshot Injuries of the Pace there is usually great splintering of the bones. As, however, the vitahty of the part is great, necrosis is not likely to ensue ; and the partially detached and loosened fragments may be put back into position, and will usually become fixed. There are two principal dangers in these cases : haemorrhage, either primary or secondary, and abundant fetid muco-puriform discharge. The hcemorrhage, when primary, usually ceases spontaneously, or on the application of cold. If secondary, it may be arrested by cold, by plugging, and by pressure ; or, if continuous, and from deep sources, it may possibly require ligature of the external carotid. The fetid discharge from these wounds is a source not only of great discomfort to the patient, but of positive danger, as a cause of septic pneumonia ; and, drainage i3eing diflftcult, he may also suffer from absorption of the septic matter from the raw surface. This risk is best obviated by repeated injections of warm antiseptic solutions, of which the solution of permanganate of potash or boric acid is the best. Whenever it is possible to reach the raw surface in any way, it must, after it has been well washed, be dusted over with iodoform. This exerts a far more powerful and lasting antiseptic influence than any lotion. Lower Jaw.—This bone is frequently broken, owing to its prominent situation ; though its arched shape and great strength enable it to resist all but extreme degrees of violence. All fractures of this bone which implicate the alveolar border are necessarily compound, the laceration of the gum caus- in<T them to communicate with the external air. In other cases an external wound, as in gunshot fractures, may communicate with the fracture. Not unfrequently they are comminuted. Fracture of the lower jaw may occur in various situations. I have seen it most frequently in the body of the bone, between the lateral incisor and the canine teeth. The symphysis itself is not so commonly fractured, the bone being thick in this situation. The angle is more frequently broken. The coronoid process can suffer fracture only from the most severe and direct external injury, as from a bullet-wound. The neck of the condyle is occasionally broken across. Fractures near the symphysis are usually vertical, but pass through the bone in a direction from within forwards and outwards, so that the posterior frag- ment tends to overlap the anterior. Those near the angle are commonly oblique from before backwards, so that a long spiculum of the outer table is connected with the upper fragment. These fractures are sometimes double : either symmetrically, or, more fre- quently, one on the side near the symphysis, and the otlicr near the angle. The Signs of fracture of the lower jaw are obvious. The abnormal mobility of the fragments, the crepitus, the irregularity of the line of the teeth and of the arch of the jaw, laceration of the/ gums, bleeding and drib- bling of saliva, indicate the nature of the injury. The displacement and