222 LOCAL DISTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. great caution, especially in cases of severe surgical injury. Phenacetin is said to be least likely to be followed by unpleasant consequences. Of all these drugs, quinine is the most practically useful in surgical cases, and no artificial product has yet been found to equal it. An ice-cap to the head will be found of great use in many cases. It helps to reduce the temperature and rclieyes the headache. In extreme cases of hyperpyrexia, which are rare in surgical practice, wet-packing or cold baths may be employed to reduce the temperature, should their use not be contra-indicated by the nature of the injury or by some visceral com- plication. When the fever assumes the asthenic type, in a surgical case, either from the beginning or as a sequel of the sthenic form, it is always due to some general infective process or to absorption of septic matter. This form is predisposed to by the broken state of the constitution, from drinking, poverty and foul air, so commonly met with in the patients in a London hospital. In such cases any so-called antiphlogistic treatment is evidently out of place, and all depressing antipyretics should be avoided. The bowels must be cleared out and diaphoretic salines may be given. Carbonate of ammonia in doses of from three to five grains in decoction of cinchona is often useful. Quinine in five-grain doses, repeated four times a day, may be of use, especially in the fever of pyjemia and se])tic£emia. The diet mast be as nourishing as the patient can take, and of the character before described. It is in this form of fever that alcohol is of the greatest use. This is not the place to enter into a discussion of the much-disputed question whether alcohol can act as a food. There is no doubt that it enters the blood unaltered, and that in some way it disappears from the body when the amount given is moderate in amount. When an excessive quantity is administered, it appears unchanged in the breath, sweat and urine. Doubts have been raised as to its combustion in the body because there is no increase in the carbon dioxide given oif by the respira- tion after its administration. No other mode of elimination has, however, been demonstrated, and it is quite reasonable to suppose that the absence of any increase in the carbon dioxide expired may be due to the diminished oxidation of other substances in the body during the time that the alcohol is being consumed. One thing, however, is quite certain, and that is, that if we desire alcohol to act as a food only in producing energy by combustion, it must be given in very small doses, such as a teaspoonful of brandy, very frequently repeated, as there is no mechanism by which it can be stored in the body. If half an ounce of strong spirit be given in a single dose, some is lost by the breath and skin, and the heart is stimulated to excessive action, thus wasting the force it is our desire to conserve. On the other hand, it is sometimes our object to " whip up " the heart, especially when there is a tendency to passive congestion and stasis, as in hypostatic pneumonia ; in that case a periodical large dose of alcohol, or perhaps of ether, will produce the desired efiect. The proper use of alcoholic stimulants in fever is a most difficult problem. The popular notion that alcohol "gives strength," and that the more you can give to an exhausted patient the better, has not one atom of evidence to support it. It is very rarely that a patient is really benefited by more than eight ounces of good brandy per diem, and care must be taken that it is not given in such an amount as to extinguish whatever appetite mav