12 'general remarks on operations. no sargeon would be content with this if he could obtain more ; as in civil practice liB alvvays can. The rule, therefore, laid down in the construction of hospitals is that each patient shall be allotted from 1500 to 2000 cubic feet of space, the larger space being required for infectious, or surgical cases. In order to maintain a proper degree of separation of the patients each must be allotted from 100 to 120 square feet of floor. The effective height of a ward for the purposes of ventilation does not exceed 12 feet. Not only, however, is space required, but change of air, by proper ventilation, is equally needful, Military experience has shown conclusively that churches form the. worst possible hospitals, for in these buildings, although the cubic space per head is frequently enormous owing to the great height of the building, the floor area is comparatively small, and little provision is usually made for efficient chai\ge . of air. The second cause of vitiation of the air of a surgical ward—the emanar tions from wounds and sores—is more or less completely under the control of the surgeon. Wounds do not necessarily add to the impurity of the air of a. ward ; it was the decomposition of the discharges and the effluvia so developed that gave rise to the evil consequences formerly so familiar to most surgeons. Experience tends to show that if decomposition of the discharges be absolutely, prevented, a case with a wound vitiates the air of a ward no more than one without : and in the present day, when the powers and properties of antiseptics are so Avell understood, there is never any excuse for a wound becoming a source of impurity to the surrounding air. Should decomposition be unavoid-- able, as it still is in many cases, it is easy to absorb the discharges in some antiseptic dressing, which will conipletely disinfect them as soon as they leave" the patient's body. No surgeon doubts that an accumulation of putrid wounds in a ward gives rise to unhealthy processes, such as pyemia, septicaemia,.- hospital gangrene, and the like. If such diseases do arise, most are agreed that the ward must be thoroughly disinfected'before it can saftily be .used- again. Surely it is more rational to commence the disinfection at the source of mischief—that is to say, the wounci. . . . A sufficient cubic space, free ventilation, and clean wounds, are therefore the essentials of a healthy hospital. Attention to these three conditions, especially- the last, has in many Continental hospitals reduced the death-rate to less than a quarter of wh-at it was in former times. Care must be taken in attending to.' ventilation,-that the free current of air is maintained both by night and day.- It is from want of this precaution during night especially that much mischief ofteu results. The importance of maintaining efficient ventilation during night, and the little danger to be apprehended from the admission of cold night' air, were so forcibly pointed out by Miss Nightingale in her Notes-vii Nursing, and are now so universally admitted, that I need not do more than add the testimony of my experience to the truth of her observations. In cold weathei;, also, there is so great a disposition on the part of nurses and patients to sliut up wards and rooms, that the air becomes close, oppressive, and contaminated ; and hence it is that erysipelas and similar diseases are so rife during winter and early spring. The " East Wind " is commonly accused of being'the cause of these ; and no doubt it is so, but only indirectly,^ causing windows and doors to be shut, so as to exclude the cold that usually accom- panies that wind. It is impossible to over-estimate the importance of a free supply of pure air in lessening the mortality after operations, not only in