CONSTITUTIONAL EFFECTS OF INJURY. BEMOTE EFFECTS OP INJUEY. These may be consiifidional or local. The Remote Constitutional Effects of injuries are of a very varied character. In some cases, persons who have met with serious injury will be found to die suddenly, some months after apparent recovery. In others, the general health fails, and an anaemic and cachectic stage supervenes. In other instances, again, the functions of the nervous system become disturbed ; con- vulsive movements or paralytic symptoms of a slight but persistent character develop themselves, and may become progressive. In these cases, the imme- diate effect of the injury on the nervous system seems to pass off, while a per- manent impression is left. The patient never completely recovers from the effects of his injury ; he is never " the same man again ;" and, although his health may appear to improve from time to time, yet, on careful investigation, it will be found that there has been a continuous train of symptoms indicative of a disordered state of the nervous system. This condition of general dis- turbance of the nervous system resulting from injuries, especially such as are attended with great mental shock, is designated " traumatic neurasthenia." It will be considered in the chapters on Injuries of the Head and Spine. Remote Local Effects.—The possible remote local consequences of severe injuries deserve more attention than they usually receive. There can be no doubt that many structural diseases owe their origin to long antecedent injuries. The nutrition of a part may be modified to such an extent by a blow or wound inflicted upon it, as to induce those alterations in the struc- ture which constitute true organic disease. Thus we occasionally find, on death occurring many months after a severe injury, that extensive local mis- chief, usually of an inflammatory character, is disclosed, which has evidently been going on in an insidious manner from the time of the accident. In other cases again, a blow may give rise to severe and long-continued neuralgic pains in a part; or it may be the direct cause of structural disease in bones, joints, or blood-vessels ; and, lastly, it may be the starting-point of cancerous or other tumours, many cases of which can be distinctly referred to external violence.