OPERATION FOR RUPTURED PERINJEUM. 899 was engaged in the fascia transversalis. It had occasioned repeated attacks of peritonitis ; and, after extraction, death resulted from that cause. Laceration of the Perineum.—The perineum is occasionally ruptured during parturition. The extent of the laceration varies greatly, and influences materially the ultimate issue of the case. In some cases there is merely a shght rent at the fourchette ; in others, the whole perinteiim has given way as far as the sphincter ani ; in others the sphincter also is torn ; or the rent may extend into the recto-vaginal septum. The worst cases are those in which the perinaeum has been torn, and the recto-vaginal septum destroyed by sloughing from prolonged pressure of the foetal head. In such cases, the loss of soft tissues and the existence of dense cicatricial bands render complete union by operation very uncertain. When the sphincter ani or the recto- vaginal septum has given way, incontinence of faces forms the most trouble- some symptom. The neighbouring parts are from this cause liable to excoria- tion ; and not unfrequently the rectal mucous membrane becomes prolapsed or hssmorrhoidal. The operation for the closure of ruptured perineeum is comparatively modern. Although it had been done in France by Guillemeau in the 16th century, and m this country by Smellie in the 18th, little attention was paid to the subject until Rouse, in 1834, published five cases, in four of which he had effected a cure by means of the quilled suture. From that time the operation took its place in surgery. The operation may be done at two distinct periods after the occurrence of the laceration, viz., immediately or remotely. Operation for Ruptured Perinaeum.—The immediate operation is done as soon as possible after the occurrence of the accident. Anesthesia is unnecessary except in those cases in which the tear is complete and passes into the rectum. The patient lying on the left side, the vagina is to be plugged with a sponge or a tampon of wool or gauze. The raw surface is then cleared ot blood-clot, and closed with silver-wire or silkworm-gut sutures These are introduced with a large fully-curved needle on a handle. The needle is made to enter the skin just beyond one lateral extremity of the raw surface and passing across completely buried, emerges at a corresponding point on the opposite side; it is then threaded and withdrawn. Two or three sutures passed in this way are usually sufficient, and when all have been inserted the ends of each are twisted or tied together. The risk of perforating the anterior wall of the rectum cluring the passage of the needle may be obviated by introducing one finger into the bowel. In the more severe cases in which the sphincter ani it torn through, it will be necessary to employ additional sutures for the purpose 0 bringing tog-ether the ends of the muscle. These should consist of fine silver wire which can be passed with a half-curved needle. The needle is first introduced just to one side of the apex of the tear in the anterior wall of th rectum accurately at the torn edge of the mucous membrane. It is passed forwards to a sjDot about half an inch from the point of entry ; here it emei^es into the wound, and being re-introduced at the corresponding pointTn t1 opposite side is carried backwards into the rectum in a similar manner The ends are then twisted together and other sutures are passed in the same wav each one being mtroduced rather further out and embracing a slic^htly 11: extent 0 issue than the_ preceding one. After the Suturing if C completed the vaginal plug is removed. A vaginal douche of Condy's fluid or 3 M 2