LOCAL DLSTUliliANCES AND INFLAMMATION. observations tend to prove that there is no elevation of temperature above that of the blood in the part actually inflamed : and, even snpposino' these observations to be erroneous, it is evident, from the difficulty in detectin.o; it, that the heat developed in the area of inflammation must be extremely small in amount and quite insufficient to account for the elevation of the temperature of the whole body by several dej-Tces. The fever is not caused by the pain usually accompanying- inflammation ; for experiments have shown that irritation of sensory nerves tends rather to lower the temperature by causing a certain degree of shock. It has been clearly proved by experiment that fever can be induced by injecting into the blood-stream noxious materials of various kinds. Substances Avhich, when thus injected, cause fever are said to possess pyrogejik pro- perliesy Amongst the substances possessing marked pyrogenic properties is the lymph returning from an inflamed area, charged, as it is, with the pro- ducts of the destructive changes which are going on in the part. It has already been stated how largely the floAV of lymph is increased during acute inflam- mation, ounces returning from the diseased part where drachms return from the corresponding sound part. It is evident, therefore, that the effect pro- duced on the blood during inflammation may be very considerable, and will vary with the extent of the inflammation and the amount of local destructive tissue-change which is going on. One substance, which must frequently be present in considerable quantities in the lymph returning from an inflamed area, viz. the so-called flbrin-ferment," possesses very powerful pyrogenic properties. This, it will be remembered, is one of the elements concerned in the formation of fibrin. It is supposed to be yielded up by the white corpuscles which become disintegrated during the process of clotting of the blood. It is found in considerable excess in the serum which can be squeezed out of a freshly formed coagulum ; and as coagulation of an inflammatory exudation is the same process as coagulation of the blood, it may reasonably be concluded that fibrin-ferment exists in considerable amount in the serous fluid which drains away from a surface or an area in which an inflammatory exudation is coagulating, to form the so-called ''plastic lymph."^ Kohler, Edelberg, Birk, and others investigated the effects of the injection of the free ferment into the circulation of animals, and found that in very large doses it causes coagulation of the blood in the right side of the heart, and death. In smaller doses it gives rise to a febrile disturbance closely resembling that produced by the injection of putrid substances. The fever varies in in- tensity with the quantity of the ferment injected : and, if this be sufficiently small, the animal recovers without serious symptoms after an elevation of tempe- rature of short duration. There seems to be no reason to doubt the accuracy of these observations. Large numbers of white corpuscles are believed to be disintegrated in the process of coagulation, either of pure blood or of an in- flammatory exudation. The theory of ''ferment-poisoning " may thus, in part at least, account for the fever that always accompanies simple inflammations and large wounds, even with aseptic discharges, and that occasionally follows extensive extravasations of blood. Only under very exceptional circumstances in the human subject could the dose of the ferment be sufficient to cause the more severe symptoms that have been experimentally produced in animals ; but possibly the explanation of some cases of death from cardiac thrombosis, that is to say, ante-mortem coagulation of the blood in the right side of the