728 IXJURIES OF THE HEAD. HaBmorrhage into the Areolar Tissue of the Orbit and Eyelid, giving rise to extensive eccliymosis of the lid, possibly with protrusion of the eyeball itself, often accompanies fracture of the orbital plate of the frontal bone. The ecchymosis that occurs in these cases arises from the filtration of blood from the interior of the skull, through the fracture, into the loose areolar tissue adjacent to the injured bone. It differs remarkably in appear-* ance from an ordinary " black eye." In the latter case, the extravasated blood lies in the subcutaneous tissue immediately beneath the skin, and sometimes the skin of the lids is also bruised, giving them a reddish-purple colour ; but the blood does not find its way to the subconjunctival tissue, being shut oft* by the attachment of the palpebral ligament to the margin of the orbit. In the ecchymosis from fracture the extravasated blood advances from the orbit, and is shut off from the subcutaneous tissue of the lids by the palpebral ligament, while it readily finds its way beneath the conjunctiva. In the more severe cases the lids may be tense, greatly swollen, and of a bluish-purple colour, the subconjunctival tissue maybe distended with blood, and the eyeball distinctly protruded. It is only when abundant that subconjunctival hgemor- rhage is of any value in the diagnosis of fracture. A small extravasation may be the result of a direct blow on the eyeball, or a conjunctival vessel may have ruptured during the violent exertion which may have accompanied the accident. In well-marked cases the haemorrhage may be venous or arterial. When venous, it probably arises from a fracture implicating the body of the sphenoid bone, and tearing the wall of the cavernous sinus. When arterial, it may, as Hewett has shown, be the forerunner of a circumscribed traumatic aneurism of the orbit. Bleeding from the Nose or Mouth may of course arise from any injury of these parts without the skull being implicated ; yet in some cases of fracture of the skull the haemorrhage proceeds from the interior of the cranium, through a fissure in the roof of the nasal fossa ; it then indicates a fracture through the ethmoid and sphenoid bones. In a patient of mine who died five weeks after an injury of the head, accompanied by bleeding from the nose, a fracture was found extending across one orbital plate of the frontal bone, and separating its articulation with the ethmoid. In this case, the nature of the injury was suspected from the fact of the nose itself having been uninjured by the blow, although the hsemorrhage from it was very considerable and continuous ; for it is in the quantity and duration of this haemorrhage that its value as a diagnostic sign consists. Vomiting of Blood may occur in these cases, from the blood having found its way through the fractured ethmoid or sphenoid down the nose and through the posterior nares into the pharynx and stomach. The vomited blood is dark, grumous, and mixed with the contents of the stomach. In some I'are cases, in which the petrous portion of the temporal bone is fractured, and the middle ear opened, but without injury to the tympanic membrane, no bleeding from the external ear ensues, but the blood escapes into the pharynx through the Eustachian tube. In some cases there may be a combination of these difl'erent signs. Thus, in a patient of mine at the hospital, there was hgemorrhage into the left orbit and from the left nostril, with copious vomiting of blood, and bleeding from the right ear, following a blow upon the forehead. The diagnosis, which was verified after death, was a fissure of the skull extending through the left orbital plate of the frontal