271 PATHOLOGY OF ULCERATION. tissues are fii'st infiltrated by cells foreign to the jDart, which destroy them and occupy their place; then in their turn the new cells perish, and are thrown off superficially with a fluid discharge, and thus a progressive destruction of tissue takes place. In the first two examples the invading cells are the leucocytes which have migrated from the blood vessels, and in the last they are the special cells of the malignant growth. In the present chapter we have to deal only with ulceration as it occurs as a part of the process of inflammation. An ulcer passes through two stages, viz. 1. Extension ; and 2. Repair. To the former of these only is the term " ulceration " applied. Pathology.—The process of ulceration when dependent on inflammation hardly needs a detailed description, as it differs in no essential feature from that already described as taking place in the formation of an abscess, the only variation being that in the latter case the formation of pus and destruction of tissue take place in a closed space, while in the former they occur upon a surface. The separation of a dead piece of tissue from the surrounding living parts is thus accomplished. The tissue immediately in contact with that which is dead must necessarily have suff'ered to some extent from the injury which has caused the mischief, and its vitality thus being lowered, the phenomena of inflammation are manifested in it with an intensity corre- sponding to the degree of damage, and consequently diminishing as we recede from the parts that have been actually killed. Where the living tissues touch the dead the condition of stasis will be reached, and those vessels which pass from the dead to the living tissue will become plugged with clots extending as far as the next branch in the living parts. Beyond the area of stasis we find that of retarded flow, accumulation of leucocytes, and migration; and, beyond this again, that of simple dilatation with increased rapidity of flow. The width of the area in which these inflammatory phenomena take place varies greatly. It may be merely microscopic, as in the separation of a piece of dead tissue which has been prevented from decomposing by antiseptic treatment, or it may extend for half an inch or more. Occasionally these vascular condi- tions can be recognised clinically by the eff'ect produced by the pressure of the finger; in the area of fluxion- it is scarcely possible to remove the finger before the brilliant red colour has returned ; in that of retarded flow a "second or more may elapse before the pale mark made by the finger has regained its red colour, and the tint in this area is a more dusky red than in that of fluxion • sometimes small red dots may be noticed in the pale patch formed by the pressure of the finger, indicating points at which some red corpuscles have escaped from the distended vessels. . Lastly, close to the dead tissue is a dark red line unaltered by pressure, indicating the area of stasis and thrombosis in which also many red corpuscles have escaped from the damaged vessels. From the vessels in the stage of retarded flow abundant exudation of blood-plasma and migration of the corpuscles take place. The wandering cells move in great numbers into the passive layer of tissue touching the dead part, and by their pressure destroy such remains of vitality as may be left; the original tissue softens and disintegrates, its place becomes occupied by closely-packed leuco- cytes ; the leucocytes in contact with the irritating dead tissue in their turn degenerate, and becoming granular and losing tlieir adhesion, are separated from each other by the serous exudation from the neighbouring vessels, and thus pus is formed and the process of separation is completed. When this has