376 POISONED WOUNDS. \ demonstrated by Marcus Beck in a case which occurred in University College Hospital in 1871. Benedikt and others have found identical changes in the dog. Taking the post-mortem appearances and the symptoms together, it appears probable that the essential feature of the disease is an infective inflammation, chiefly affecting the medulla oblongata. The first sign of damage to the nerve-elements is their loss of resistance, and the occurrence of \-iolent and irregular action from slight causes. If the patient does not perish at an early stage from exhaustion, damage of the nervous tissue pro- gresses till it comes to respond more feebly than natural to the different impulses it receives ; this corresponds to the period of calm that so frequently occurs before death. Finally, it becomes incapable of performing its func- tions, and the heart ceases to beat. Coats states that he has found, in addition to the congestion of the fauces always met with, actual infiltration of the salivary glands with leucocytes. Beyond these no definite appearances are met with. Although Pasteur has not been able successfully to inoculate the blood of a rabid animal, there is no doubt that the virus can be carried to the brain and cord by the circulation. To prove this he inoculated a rabbit by injection into the auricular vein and immediately afterwards cut off the ear, but the symptoms developed as usual. The theory that the virus can reach the nervous centres by direct extension along the nerves has nothing to support it. Rabies belongs to the class of specific infective diseases, its chief peculiarity being the unusual duration of the period of incubation. It is in no way more extraordinary than such a disease as mumps, in which a period of perfect health, lasting for three Aveeks, intervenes between infection and the appearance of a local acute inflammation attacking the parotid gland. Treatment.—This must be principally preventive and iialliatwe. We cannot speak of curative treatment of rabies ; for, after the disease has once set in, the utmost that can be done is to lessen the patient's sufferings, and delay for a few hours the almost inexitably fatal termination. Preventive Treatment.—From what is known regarding the nature and mode of spread of rabies, it appears certain that much can be done by State regulation to exterminate the dif^ease. The most important measures are : 1. The destruction of all dogs which are rabid or suspected of being so. 2. Seizure of all ownerless and wandering dogs. According to Fleming, 24!) out of 601 rabid dogs were returned as stray ones. 3. All dogs to be efficiently muzzled while rabies prevails, and for some time afterwards. The efficacy of muzzling has been amply proved ; in 1885 twenty-seven deaths from rabies occurred in London, whilst in 188G, after the muzzling order was enforced, no death was recorded. 4. The registration and taxation of all dogs. Owing to the fact that but a small proportion of those bitten are attacked by the disease, innumerable popular remedies have obtained an unmerited reputation for preventing rabies. I When a person is bitten by a rabid dog, or by one that is reasonably suspected of being so, the Surgeon should always adopt energetic means to save the patient from so fatal a disease. As soon as possible after the bite has been inflicted, a string or bandage of some kind should if possible be applied on the proximal side of the wound, so as to arrest the circulation. Suction is commonly recommended, and would be almost instinctively practised ; but it is not altogether devoid of danger, as there is reason to believe that inoculation may take place through the mucous membrane of the lip and mouth, and this