758 INJURIES OF THE HEAD. the frontal region to the vertex. The right arm was immediately paralysed, at first only partially, but gradually the whole limb became powerless. Nine months after the wound he was, however, well enough to be returned to duty. Guthrie records the case of a soldier, aged 40, who was wounded at AVaterloo by a bullet, which passed across his head close to the vertex, fracturing and depressing both parietal bones. He was stunned by the blow, and when he recovered found he had lost power in both lower limbs. He was trephined ten days after the battle and made a good recovery, ultimately regaining much power in his legs. These cases sufficiently illustrate the chief chnical features of injuries affecting the motor region of the cortex of the hemispheres. On each side of this motor region is an area the functions of which have not been defined with sufficient accuracy to be of much value in practical diagnosis. Considerable portions of the anterior parts of the frontal lobes may be lost without the patient showing any appreciable change either mentally or physically. It has already been seen, however, that those peculiar mental symptoms which occur in the condition known as Cerebral Irritation (p. 74,")) are almost certainly associated with bruising or laceration of this part of the brain. The sense of vision appears to be located in the occipital lobes ; that of hearing in the temporal lobes, especially the superior convolution. The representation of general sensation in the cortex is little understood, but there is evidence to show that lesions of the so-called " motor areas " may result in tactile anaes- thesia as well as paralysis. As these cases of paralysis may require the use of the trephine, it is of great importance that we should be able clearly to answer the question whether the paralysis is dependent on central or cortical lesion. If due to compression or laceration of a central ganglion, it is obvious that the trephine would be useless. In these cases the paralysis will probably have been immediate, its completeness will be very marked, and the whole of one side of the body at least will in all probability suffer. In cortical lesions, in Avhich the trephine may sometimes be advantageously applied, the paralysis, although it may be present immediately after the accident, often does not appear for some time; it is less complete and less extensive, sometimes affecting single groups of muscles, and is often preceded by convulsions. The Age of the Patient has some influence on the symptoms and course of a case of laceration of the brain. Children, especially, have been known to bear extensive injuries of the brain, and even the loss of a considerable quantity of cerebral matter, without any very serious effects, either immediate or remote ; and it is by no means uncommon to see them live several days with an extent of injury to the brain which would rapidly have proved fatal to an adult. Indeed it may be stated generally, that the younger the patient, the greater the chance of recovery. So, also, the prognosis may be considered more favourable in men of the labouring class, whose minds are but little exercised, than in persons of more cultivated intellect. Foreign bodies even of large size and considerable weight have been lodged for a considerable time within the skull without causing death. Thus Hennen states that he has seen five cases in which bullets were lodged within the skull that did not prove immediately fatal Cunningham relates the case of a boy who lived for twenty-four days with the breech of a pistol, weighing nine drachms, lying on the tentorium, and resting against the occipital bone.