SPECIAL FMAC TUBES. 59° but the patient will not fully recover the use of the arm till about the end of the seventh or eighth week. Passive movement should be commenced early. Compound and Comminuted Fractures of the Head of the Humerus can occur only as a consequence of gunshot injury. In these cases there may also be splintering of the acromion or coracoid processes, of the neck of the scapula or glenoid cavity, and possibly injury to the axillary vessels and nerves. The Treatment must depend upon the extent of the complications. If the injury be confined chiefly to the head of the humerus, with little damage to the soft parts, and none to the main vessels or nerves, excision should be practised, any splinters in connection with the scapular processes being removed at the same time. Should, however, the soft parts be extensively disorganized, and if the great vessels and nerves are torn, amputation is the sole resource. 2. Fractures of the Shaft of the Humerus are usually somewhat oblique from above downwards and outwards. They may occur from any kind of external violence, but are more frequently the result of muscular action than those of any other long bone. The nature of the accident can at once be detected by the great mobility of the fragments, the ready production of crepitus, and the other ordinary signs of fracture. The direction of the displacement depends upon the seat of the fracture. If the bone be broken above the insertion of the deltoid, and below those of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, and teres major muscles, the lower fragment will lie to the outer side of the upper, and will be drawn upwards while the lower end of the upper fragment will be drawn inwards. If the fracture be below the insertion of the deltoid, the upper fragment will be abducted by that muscle, and the lower will be to its inner side. In proportion to the frequency of fracture of the shaft of the humerus ununited fracture occurs more commonly in this than in any other bone. Treatment.—Fractures of the shaft of the humerus, except perhaps those at the lower part, cannot be kept properly at rest unless the limb be fixed to the side of the chest. The methods in which this important point has been neglected have probably been largely responsible for the frequency with which ununited fracture has occurred in this bone. The internal rectangular sphnt reach- ing from the axilla to the wrist, with three short splints on the other sides of the arm, is thus usually a very imperfect means of fixing the fracture, if the hand be merely supported in a sling. Whatever kind of splint be employed it is most advisable that, in all cases, the arm be bandaged to the side of the chest. The treatment with plaster of Paris may be carried out as follows :—a narrow wooden splint, long enough to reach from the axilla to the elbow, is padded thinly on both sides, and bandaged to the side of the chest, the Fig. 1S7.—Apparatus for Treatment of Fracture of Humerus. The bandage which fixes tlie limb to the chest is not represented.