TREATMENT OF PRIMARY ARTERIAL ILEMORRHAGE. 451 of the arm, and, when the blood bursts forth as furiously as ever, applies successive ligatures to the arteries of the forearm with as little success, he will at last, on account of the continual recurrence of hasmorrhage, be forced to adopt the simple expedient that ought to have been had recourse to in the first instance, namely, that of ligatui-ing the vessel at the point wounded. Another reason for the practice now advocated is, that in some cases the Surgeon cannot possibly kno\v what artery is injured unless he seek for it in the wound itself. A large artery may, from the direction of the stab and the impetuous flow of blood that has followed it, appear to be wounded, when in reality it is only a minor branch that has been injured. Thus, for instance, in hasmorrhage from a stab in the axilla, which proved fatal notwithstanding the ligature of the subclavian artery for supposed wound of the axillary, the long thoracic was found to be the vessel divided ; so, also, the external iliac artery has been ligatured for supposed wound of the common femoral, when in reality it was the external pudic that was injured. Lastly, when the main artery of a limb is w^ounded, if ligature of the trunk in its continuity on the proximal side of the w^ound should by any chance succeed in arresting the bleeding, the vessel is obliterated at tw^o points—at the seat of ligature and at the wound—and, consequently, gangrene is very hkely to occur as the blood may have to pass through two sets of anastomosing vessels to reach the parts below the wound. This rule applies to every case in which it is possible to expose the wounded vessel sufficiently to apply a ligature to it. The only exceptions are wounds of certain of the deep branches of the carotid and some cases of wound of the deep palmar arch (see Chapter XVI). As will be seen hereafter it applies to secondary as well as to primary hgemorrhage. 3. The third great principle in the treatment of wounded arteries is, that a ligature is to be applied to both ends of the vessel, if it be com- pletely cut across ; or on both sides of the aperture in it, if it be only partially divided. The reason for this rule of practice is founded on physiological grounds as well as on practical experience. If the anastomoses of the part be very free, as in the arteries of the palm or forearm, bleeding may continue from the distal end, uninterrupted by the ligature on the proximal side of the wound; if they be less free, a stream of dark-looking venous blood will probably issue in the course of two or three days. After the collateral circulation has been suffi- ciently established, bright scarlet blood will burst forth from the distal aperture. Experience has shown that it is in this way that secondary ht^morrhage from wounded arteries commonly occurs, the bleeding coming from the distal and not from the proximal end of the vessel. In some cases the distal end is so retracted and covered in by surrounding parts, that it cannot be found in order to be ligatured. In these circumstances'", if It IS not actually bleeding, it may be left alone in the hope that hemorrhage will not occur. If, however, it be bleeding, a graduated compress must be applied, but such means should never be resorted to until the wound has been freely enlarged and a thorough search made for the vessel. If an arterial branch happen to be divided so close to its origin that it cannot be secured the case must be treated as one of puncture of the main trunk, which must be ligatured above and below the bleeding orifice. Mode of Operating.—In order to arrest the hemorrhage during the G G 2