1013 DERMOID CYSTS. {a.) Dermoid Cysts.—The majority of these result from inclusion of a portion of the epiblast. Cysts thus formed are distinguished as " sequestration dermoids;' by Bland Sutton, who has added much to our knowledge regard- ing this highly interesting class of cystic formations. It will be remembered that m the very earliest stages of development the germinal membrane or blastoderm divides into three layers. From the most superficial of these, or epiblast, is developed the cuticular covering of the body, with the hairs and glands of the skin and the central nervous system ; from the deepest layer, or hypoblast, arise the epithelial lining of the air-passages and of the alimentary canal and the epithelium of the glands connected with it; while the rest of the body is developed from the middle layer or mesoblast. The blastoderm is at first flat, but in the process of development it becomes folded on itself, and thus encloses the abdominal cavity ; the mouth and neck are developed from lateral processes, the branchial arches, which curve down- wards till they meet in the middle line, and between these arches are fissures, the branchial clefts. The lateral parts of the face are developed in the same way, while the nose and middle parts above the mouth arise from a descending process proceeding from the frontal region. By the coal- escence of all these the face and throat are formed. It can easily be understood how in this process a portion of the epiblast may become included and remain imbedded in the tissues belonging to the deeper layer. Should this happen, a closed cyst may be formed lined internally with the struc- tures proper to the skin, and yet entirely unconnected with it. Dermoid cysts are met with most commonly in the subcutaneous tissue in situations in which their position can be explained by the process of inclusion above described. The accompanying diagram, (Fig. 355) from a paper by Gusset, well illustrates the lines in the neck which correspond to the branchial clefts, and to the meeting of the various processes from which the face is developed in the foetus. It is in these lines that dermoid cysts are most commonly met with. They are most often found at the upper and outer angle of the orbit. Here there is often an indentation in the bone corresponding to the cyst, and in some cases the bone may be wanting, the tumour being in direct contact with the membranes of the brain, a fact which it is important to remember in attempting their removal. They have occasionally been found within the skull on the meninges. On the trunk dermoid cysts are occasionally met with alolg the middle line where the opposite halves of the body wall join each other. The walls of the superficial dermoid cysts present all the structures of true skm—cuticle, cutis vera, papillae, sweat-glnnds, sebaceous follicles, hair- -Wall of Dermoid cyst (40 diam.). Pig. 356. II. Epidermis. 7). Hair-follicle. c. Sebaceous gland. d. Surrounding connective tissue with small masses of fat.