FRACTURE OF RIBS. 849 Fracture of the ribs may be single; muUipU when several, or even all the ribs on one side, or several on both sides, are fractured ; simple, as in ordinary violence ; and compound, as in gnnshot injuries. Any one of the ribs may be broken, and frequently several are fractured at the same time. The middle ribs, from the fourth to the eighth, are those that oftenest give way, being most exposed, and at the same time fixed. The first and second ribs are seldom broken, being protected by the clavicle and shoulder. When they are fractured it is usually the result of gunshot violence, or, if from some of the ordinary accidents of civil life, the clavicle will be broken as well. But this is not an invariable complication. I have seen fractures of the first two ribs from a fall, without any injury to neighbouring bones. This fracture is always very dangerous, on account of the liability to injury of important subjacent structures. The lower ribs, being less firmly fixed than the others, commonly escape, unless very great and direct violence be inflicted upon them. Any part of a rib may be broken bv direct violence ; but when the fracture is the result of compression of the cliest, it is usually the point of greatest convexity or the neighbourhood of the angle of the rib that gives way. These indirect fractures commonly occur in elderly people, in whom the elas- ticity of the thoracic jjarietes has lessened as the result of age, and they are peculiarly liable to occur in some cases of general paralysis of the insane, in which the bones are weakened by atrophy. Symptoms.—The chief symptom is a sharp pricking and catching pain at the seat of injury, increased by breathing deeply, or by coughing. In order to avoid this, the inspirations are shallow, and the breathing is principally diaphragmatic. On placing one hand on the sternum, and the other on the spine, and pressing gently, the patient will complain of pain at the seat of fracture. This is often a valuable means of diagnosis. On laying the hand over the seat of injury, and desiring the patient to cough, crepitus'^may often be felt; and in most cases this is audible on applying the ear to the chest. The diagnosis of the fracture is necessarily more easily made where the ribs are thinly covered, than where they lie under the muscles of the back Occasionally the outline of the rib will be found to be irregular • and in some instances, where several ribs are broken, the whole side of the chest is flattened and depressed. Besides these local symptoms, special complications resulting froni laceration of the pleura and lung, such as hsemoptysis, pneumothorax ov emphysema, may occur. These complications are much less frequent than might a prion be supposed, owing to the fracturing force beiuo- usuallv mdirect, causing the rib to bend outwards, and thus to break away from instead of mto the chest. The danger of fractured ribs, indeed, depends wholly on the thoracic complications, and these will be occasioned chieflv bv one of two conditions : either by the forcible driving in of the fractured ends as rom the kick of a horse, so that the pleura and lung are wounded by he sharp and ragged fragments ; or else by a large number of ribs beino- broken by a severe squeeze of the chest, and the thoracic organs injured bv the general compression It is surprising, however, what an extent of injurv of this kind may take place without serious consequences. I have had under my care a young man, who, in consequence of a crush of the chest, in a railway ^1 'f^H ''T """"V"^' ^r^^'^ ''S^'' ^'^d the lower five on the left, the chest, especially on the right side, being greatly flattened he recovered without a bad symptom. In gunshot injuries of the ches ;ith VOL. I. ' ""^^^^ 3 1