LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER: CONTRACTED CICATRICES. mS bad cases the actual cautery, applied freely, after which iodoform and boiic acid fomentations, or lint soaked in the nitric acid and opium ^^^^^^^^^ be used, the caustic being applied again whenever there is fl^^^^^^J extension of the disease. In obstinate cases of phagedenic f^^^^\\f ^^^f^^^ Germany and Hutchinson in this country have recommended that the patient should be immersed for ten hours daily in a bath of hot water niaintaine constantly at a temperature of 98° F. The bath must be repeated daily till healing is distinctly taking place. . Constitutional Treatment.-The Simple, Soft, or Excoriated sore re quires no constitutional treatment beyondattentiontotheordmary rulesothealtii. In the Sloughing Chancre it frequently happens that the mischiet is entirely due to local causes, such as the accumulation of discharge under a long foreskin. In these cases the constitutional disturbance, which may De severe, will subside as soon as the local condition is relieved. In other cases the sloughing is due partly to local causes and partly to a depressed state ot health. In'these ammonia and bark, good nourishment and abundant stimulants, will be required. Opium may be necessary to relieve pam and irritability, and eventually the patient's strength may be supported by iron and quinine. In a sloughing chancre mercury is never required. In the constitutional treatment of Phagedsenic Chancre it must be borne in mind that the patient is usually in a debilitated condition before the invasion of the disease ; consequently tonics, such as bark or iron, with good food and stimulants, are frequently required, together with opiates to allay pam and procure rest. The preparations of iron, especially the ammonio-citrate and the tartrate, either alone or in combination with sarsaparilla, are especially useful in these cases. It has before been stated that phagedsenic ulceration may start from a true syphilitic sore or occur in a patient suffering from constitutional syphihs. Mercury is, however, often inadmissible, and if given indiscriminately may do much harm in many cases by further debilitating the patient. On the other hand, some sores which have resisted treatment for a long time may rapidly improve if mercury be carefully administered in small doses. Wallace stated that its beneficial effects are most marked in those cases which are characterized by the presence of a white slough. It is best given as the perchloride, in doses of 3V to a grain with tincture and decoction of cinchona. It is in these cases also that the local application of perchloride, in the strength of from one to two grains to the ounce of water, is so frequently useful. Consecutive Symptoms of the Local Contagious Ulcer.—Chancres are not unfrequently followed by a series of aifections which may be termed consecidive, depending as they do upon the primary disease, but being local in their character, and presenting no evidence of constitutional infection. These consecutive symptoms are three in number : viz.. Contraction of the Cicatrix of the Chancre, Bubo, and WarLs. Contracted Cicatrices.—Most excoriated chancres are healed without any marked cicatrix being left; but, in the phagedaenic and the sloughing chancres, there is always loss of substance, often to a considerable extent, and consequently a depressed scar. If the ulceration happens to have involved the orifice of the urethra a very intractable stricture may result, which may subsequently necessitate division of the scar for its relief. The situations of all venereal ulcers should be watched for some time, however readily the sore