AMPUTATIONS. 64 the lengthening of the operation by two or three minutes is a matter of but little importance. It is better to spend one or two minutes more over the operation, than to have to re-amputate on account of sloughing of the flaps. The simple circular and the double-flap operations being thus brought to perfectioii marks the limit of the improvement in amputation which resulted from the invention of the tourniquet ; and before the invention of anaesthetics Surgeons were divided in opinion as to which of the two methods was to be preferred when the nature of the case allowed of a choice. The advocates of the flap operation claimed for it the following advantages : that it was easy of performance, and could be carried out with great rapidity, thus saving pain to the patient; that the thick muscular cushion left over the end of the bone made a better covering and rendered protrusion of the bone less likely to occur ; and that the accuracy of fit obtained by this method favoured union of the wound by first intention. The advocates of the circular method maintained that the light covering formed by the skin and fat was less likely to be dis- placed by the involuntary movements of the muscles, and was quite as capable of uniting by first intention as fleshy flaps ; and that protrusion of the bone was not dependent on the method adopted, but upon insufficiency of covering. As long ago as 1783 it had been pointed out by Mynors that the muscular cushion is more an ideal than a real advantage; for in course of time the muscular tissue in the flap becomes atrophied and absorbed, until after a few months the difference in covering between a stump formed by the flap method and one by the circular is inappreciable. The advocates of the circular method also maintained that the vessels being cut transversely retract more perfectly, and are less likely to bleed afterwards, and that the wound resulting from the operation is smaller than that produced by the flap method. The great objection to the circular operation was undoubtedly its tediousness and painfulness, and consequently the flap operation became decidedly the favourite with most Surgeons. The invention of anesthetics, however, left the Surgeon free to consider solely what method of amputation furnishes the best results. Hence many plans of operation that were almost discarded thirty years ago have regained their ascendency, and flaps are now most frequently carved out by cutting from without inwards, regardless of the greater length of time required, provided the result is more satisfactory. As a result of the thought and labour devoted to the improvement of amputation since the invention of anaesthetics, certain general principles have come to be universally recognised as guiding the Surgeon in the performance of the operation. These may be briefly stated thus :— 1. The covering must be sufficient to meet over the bone without the slightest tension ; 2. The amputation should be so performed that the scar, when the stump is healed, shall not lie over the end of the bone ; •3. If possible, a dependent opening should be provided for the exit of the discharges ; 4. These advantages must be obtained with the smallest possible sacrifice of the healthy parts of the limb. Each of these requires consideration more in detail. 1. To PROVIDE A SUFFICIENT COVERING.—It was long ago pointed out by Mynors that the standard by which we must estimate the amount of covering requu-ed is the diameter of the limb at right angles to the line in which the