633 FRACTURE OF BONES OF LEG. down upon and removed the necrosed fragment, which appeared to constitute about one quarter of the pateUa. No cause could be assigned for the necrosis, except defective vascular supply to this part of the bone. Fractures op the Bonks op the Leg.—Both bones of the leg are fre- (pieutly broken simultaneously, the fracture of the fibula being, as a rule, at a higher level than that of the tibia. The fracture is generally situated near the junction of the middle and lower thirds, and the lower fragments are, in the majority of cases, drawn upwards, behind the upper, by the action of the muscles of the calf ; so that the edge of the tibia projects under the skin and may perforate it. In certain instances, however, the direction of the fracture is such that the lower fragment rides over the front of the upper. The tibia, though a strongei- bone than the fibula, is as frequently fi'actured, owing to its being less protected from blows by muscles, and receiving more directly all shocks communicated to the foot. The fractures of the upper part of this bone are usually transverse, and are caused by direct v iolence ; those of the lower part are oblique, and are caused by indirect violence. In these cases the obliquity in the tibia is from before upwards and backwards, and this increases the tendency of the lower frag- Fig. 232.—Anatomical Preparation to show Displacement , , 1. 1 1 1 • 1 .1 of Fragments in Fracture of Leg. ment to slide up behind the upper. The sharp point of the upper being in front is very apt to wound the skin (Fig. 232). When both bones are broken, the usual signs of fracture, such as shortening, increased mobility at the seat of injury, and crepitus, render the diagnosis easy ; but when one bone alone is broken, it is not always a very simple matter to determine the existence of the fracture, as the sound bone, acting as a splint, prevents displacement. If it be the tibia alone that has been broken, the fracture may be detected by ranniiig the finger along the subcu- taneous edge, until it comes to a point that is somewhat irregular, puffy, or tender, where by careful examination some mobility and slight crepitus may be detected. When the fibula alone is broken, the thick layer of the peroneal muscles overlaying its upper two-thirds renders the detection of the fracture difficult. It can usually be detected by pressing the fibula firmly towards the tibia, when the patient will complain of pain at the seat of fracture, and at the same time a click may be felt ; by shifting the point of pressure, it will be ascertained that the pain is always at the same spot. In the lower third, the fracture is easily recognized by the same signs that occur in fractured tibia. The first step in the Treatment of Simple Uncomplicated Fractures of the Leg is to place the patient in a comfortable position while the splints are being prepared. This is done by flexing the hip and knee and laying the limb on its outer side with a soft pillow below the knee. In this way the muscles of the calf, which are the chief cause of displacement, are relaxed. In the treatment of the fracture many kinds of apparatus have been used. In the majority of cases where there is but little displacement and swelling, ordinary leg-splints (Cline's, well padded, are extremely convenient), are