INJURIES OF BLOOD-VESSELS. 412 delayed until the last moment, when the agony of death has already commenced; for then the functions of the nervous and circulatory systems may be po impaired that the patient is beyond recovery, or, if he can be temporarily restored, he will speedily relapse and die. Transfusion of Hood has been carried out directly and indirectly. In the former method a direct communication is established between the vein of the donor and that of the recipient. Aveling's apparatus for this purpose has the great advantage of simplicity; it consists of an india-rubber bulb on the middle of a tube, the ends of which are attached to silver bevel-ended caunulse inserted into the vein of the donor and recipient respectively. The ingenious apparatus devised by Dr. Roussel, of Geneva, is too complicated to be of much practical use. Mediate or indirect transfusion with defibrinated blood has been performed with an ordinary aspirator syringe. Intravenous Injection of Salt Solution may be performed in the following manner, and ordinary antiseptic pre- cautions should be observed. The solu- tion consists of one drachm of sodium chloride dissolved in one pint of boiled distihed water. A bottle of the form represented in Fig. 122, and large enough to hold two pints, is filled with the solution, and the temperature of the latter is kept at 105° Fahr. by placing the bottle in a vessel of hot water. The median basilic or median cephalic vein is exposed and ligatured at the lower end of the incision. The vein is then opened above the ligature by picking it up with forceps and snipping it half across obliquely with a scalpel or scissors. The cannula is introduced (Fig. 123) and tied with a fine silk ligature. Great care must be taken that the tube and cannula are full of the solution, lest air enter the vein. By slightly raising the bottle the fluid is allowed to flow slowly, and the effect is carefully watched. The amount of fluid required varies greatly in different cases, but between one and two pints is usually sufficient. "Very much larger quantities have, however, been used with satisfactory results, and the Surgeon must in each case be guided by the effect produced upon the pulse and the general condition of the patient. In the absence of the apparatus above described, the injection can be performed with a syringe, or with a simple siphon like that used for the nasal douche. Fig. 122. -Apparatu.s for Intravenous Injection of Saline Solution. Fig. 123.—Introduction of Cannula into Vein.