SCAPULA—SUBGLENOID. 665 the tendon of the siibscapularis torn across, together with the internal portion of the capsular ligament ; the sapraspinatiis and the long head of the biceps being stretched, but not ruptured. AVhen the head of the bone is dislocated below the spine of the scapula, it can be felt and seen there, more especially when the arm is rotated. The axis of the limb is altered, being directed upwards and backwards ; the elbow is raised from the side, to which it cannot be approximated, and is carried forwards. There is little or no alteration in the length of the limb, but such as there is is said to be in the direction of lengthening. The accompanying figures, for which I am indebted to Rnshton Parker, of Liverpool, show admirably the deformity in this dislocation. 4. In the dislocation Downwards, or the Subglenoid (Fig. 24'.)), the head of the bone lies in the axilla, resting against the axillary border of the scapula Fig. 251.—Dislocation of the rij^lit Fi^. 252. — Dislocation of the right Humerus backwards. (Front \'iewj. Humerus backwards. (Back View). below the glenoid cavity, and lodged between the subscapular muscle and the long head of the triceps. The tendon of the subscapularis is commonly torn near its insertion into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus, and the capsular ligament is largely lacerated. The snpraspinatus may also be torn through, or a portion of the great tuberosity of the humerus detached, and the rest of the capsular muscles put greatly on the stretch. The axillary artery and plexus of nerves are compressed and stretched by the dislocated head of the bone, so that severe pain is commonly experienced in the hand and arm, often accompanied by numbness of the fingers. The compression of the artery is so great that the circulation through the limb may be completely arrested. This I saw well illustrated in a case of subglenoid dislocation complicated with a wound of the forearm, dividing the radial and ulnar arteries. As long as the dislocation remained unreduced, no hEemorrhage took place ; bnt when the head of the bone was replaced, the injured arterfes bled freely. The head of the bone can usually be readily felt in the axilla, at its anterior and under part ; the arm is lengthened to the extent of about an inch, and the forearm is usually somewhat bent. The elbow is separated from the trunk