TREATMENT OF FRACTURES ABOUT ANKLE. 637 the bones of the leg together at a point distant from the seat of injury. If the tip of the inner malleolus be broken off as well, this may be ascertained by feeling the depression above the detached fragment. In these cases the crepitus is more distinct, and the displacement of the foot is much more marked, the sole being turned somewhat upwards and outwards, and the patient resting upon its inner side. This peculiar twist of the foot with its outer edge turned up, and the inner side down, is, when present, a most characteristic sign of Pott's fracture ; but many cases occur in which, although the bones are broken in the same place, the peculiar deformity is absent. In those cases in which the lower end of the tibia is obliquely splintered, as well as the fibula broken, there are not only the ordinary signs of fracture, with eversion of the foot, but the malleoli are widely separated, giving an appearance of increase of breadth to the joint ; crepitus is readily felt, and a depression can be perceived corresponding to the line of fracture. The Treatment of these cases is always troublesome. In consequence of the swelling and inflammation that usually occur, it is often almost impossible to make out the exact extent and direction of the fracture. The difficulty of treatment is greatly increased by the small size of, and short leverage afforded by, the fragments; and so great is it, that in some cases the displacement cannot be completely overcome by any amount of skill and patience, but a certain degree of deformity results, leaving a weak and painful joint, the mobility-of which is seriously impaired. If the fracture results from direct violence, there will be a good deal of swelling from ecchymosis and inflammatory exudation ; this will require to be subdued by the continuous application of cold, and the limb should be laid on a sphnt. If there be but little swelling, and not much displacement of the foot, the treatment may best be conducted by the immediate application of the starched or plaster bandage. When there is too much swelling for this, but no twist of the foot, perhaps the best treatment is to put the limb up in