NER VEST RETCHING. 499 as in the case of the sciatic, or by meaus of a hook ; but on account of the size and strength of the nerve its power of conduction is never completely destroyed, even if considerable force be used, although there may be some modification in its function. In operations on the smaller nerves, as the facial, the nerve is exposed and stretched with a hook, and it will always be found, if moderate force be used, that conducting power is as completely aboKshed as if the nerve had been divided. This operation is therefore equivalent to division, the only difference being that, as the continuity of the nerve is not destroyed, restoration of function is certain to take place sooner or later. The most complete account of nerve-stretching in the English language is that given by Marshall in the Bradshaw Lecture delivered at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1888, to which the reader is referred for fuller information on the subject. Nerves possess but slight extensibility and elasticity, but their cohesion or strength is very great. The breaking-strain of a nerve varies necessarily with its size. Thus that of the supra-orbital is said to be about six pounds, while a healthy sciatic will support 1*8 of the weight of the body, or in a healthy man about 27(Ubs. When a nerve is steadily stretched longitudinally with moderate force, the strain is borne at first almost entirely by the fibrous tissue composing the sheath. The nerve-fibres are straightened and the spaces between them narrowed, and thus the vessels and lymph-spaces could be squeezed and emptied of their contents. Wlien the strain is increased to about two-thirds of the breaking-strain and continued for some minutes, it comes to act more directly on the tubules, and produces very definite changes in their structure. The first effect observed is fissuring or cleavage of the medullary sheath. A still more forcible strain causes the medullary sheath to be broken up into irregular masses. If still greater force be applied the axis- cylinder and the tubular sheath may be ruptured. This degree of injury can hardly be inflicted in actual practice when stretching a large nerve by longi- tudinal traction with the finger and thumb. In stretching a nerve trans- versely with a hook the medullary sheaths are commonly ruptured and dis- integrated at the point of pressure, and the axis-cylinder ruptured, the continuity of the nerve being thus practically interrupted. The rationale of the effects of nerve-stretching for the relief of chronic neuritis was first suggested by Marshall. The fact that in neuritis the nerve itself is tender, and that, as a rule, the pain is not referred to the parts supplied by the affected nerve, led him to the conclusion that the nerve-trunks must contain sensory fibres distributed in their sheaths, or nervi nervorum. At the time this suggestion was made, although sympathetic fibres accompanying the vessels had been demonstrated in nerves by Sappey, no others had been recognised. Victor Horsley, following up Marshall's suggestion, has, however, clearly shown that short medullated fibres terminating in tactile corpuscles' exist in the perineurium and epineurium of ail nerves. The pain and tender- ness in the nerves in neuritis may, therefore, be explained by the pressure upon those nervi nervorum by inflammatory exudations and new connective tissue. In stretching a nerve the strain is first borne by the sheath, and it is not until very considerable force is applied that the proper tubules of the nerve begin to suffer. It is easy to understand, therefore, how the nervi nervorum ramifying in the sheath may be strained or ruptured to such an extent as to destroy their conducting power, and thus render the nerve itself K K 2