822 IKJURIES OF THE FACE AND ADJACENT PARTS. beins: more irritating than those of the latter. Before the introduction of breech-loading guns many eyes were lost from injuries with fragments of copper percussion caps. The highly albuminous contents of the eye form a very favourable soil for the growth of pyogenic organisms, which have been carried in by a pene- trating body or have subsequently gained entrance through the wound. Acute general suppuration {jmnophthalmitis) may follow any penetrating wound of the eye, but occurs most commonly after perforation with some obviously foul instrument, such as a steel dinner fork—a not uncommon accident among children who use a fork to unpick a knotted boot-lace. The suppurative process extends with great rapidity, appearing first as a yellowish infiltration along the track of the wound, and soon speading into the vitreous. The aqueous becomes turbid, and the wounded cornea may necrose. Iritis is always present, often with hypopyon. If there is an open wound the pus may drain away from it; under other circumstances the sclerotic may give way, to the great relief of the patient. Complete shrinkage of the globe subsequently occurs. Treatment.—When there is no probability that the eye contains a foreign body, and when the injury is not so severe as to necessitate excision, the wound and the conjunctival sac should be thoroughly cleansed with a weak solu- tion of perchloride of mercary (1 in 3,000), and a compress applied. Atropine should be used twice a day, and leeches applied to the temple if there is pain. If the wound is in the sclerotic, the conjunctiva should be sutured over it, and any protruding vitreous cut off close with scissors. The treatment of prolapsed iris has been described on p. 821. Any case in which the lens is wounded should be carefully watched, lest the swelling of the lens result in glaucoma. The increase of tension will be accompanied by great pain, and often by frequent vomiting. Prompt operation is required in such a case, and should consist in a free incision through the cornea, and the evacuation of the softened lens with a curette. When a fragment of metal remains imbedded in the cornea or sclerotic, con- siderable dilficulty may be experienced in removing it ; if in the sclerotic it is sometimes necessary to enlarge the wound. If the foreign body be adherent to the iris, iridectomy is generally the best treatment, the foreign body being removed together with the damaged portion of iris, A particle of metal lodged in the lens causes less irritation than in any other part of the eye ; the lens can sometimes be removed when it has become opaque with the foreign body in situ. When the fragment lodges in the vitreous the electro-magnet has been successfully used for its removal, but the case is always very serious and subsequent excision is often required, Non-penetrating Wounds.—These are of importance only when the cornea is involved, for wounds of the conjunctiva heal readily enough and seldom require the use of sutures unless there is obvious gaping. Corneal wounds assume a special importance from the pain and discomfort which they cause, and from the possibility of local infective processes starting in them. Vision may be impaired by those which encroach on the central region or by those which cause irregularity in the curve of the cornea. The result- ing scar tissue may occasion a more or less dense nebula, which may, however, in the case of children, completely disappear in the course of time. The treatment of these simple corneal wounds consists in bathing the eye