PHLEGMONOUS ERYSIPELAS: TREATMENT. 953 Treatment.—In the early stage, our object is to prevent the inflammation from running into gangrene of the affected tissue. The fever being at this period comnionly sthenic, the administration of purgatives, or effervescent sahnes may give rehef, but blood-letting is never required ; and^ depressing remedies, such as salines, must be given with great caution. Tonics and stimulants require to be given early and late. As the disease advances, and symptoms of depression come on, a more stimulating plan of treatment must be adopted. As the pulse becomes feebler, and the tongue browner, ammonia, bark, and especially port wine, and the brandy-and-egg mixture, must be administered. In the more advanced stages of the disease our sole object must be by nourishing diet, and the use of stimulants and tonics, to carry the patien: through the depression. Local Treatment.—The part affected must be kept at rest, and elevated, if it be a limb ; it must be well painted with equal parts of glycerine and extract of belladonna, and have hot fomentations assiduously applied, cold being even more prejudicial here than in cutaneous erysipelas ; in this way, the swelling and tension may perhaps be removed, and sloughing of the areolar tissue pre- vented. In the majority of cases, however, incisions must be made into the part for the relief of tension. This mode of practice is the most effectual means we possess for the prevention of sloughing ; hence the incisions should be made early, before there has been time for the tissues to lose their vitality. As soon, indeed, as the skin becomes brawny, indurated, and tense, incisions will afford the greatest possible relief, reducing the tension by the gaping, and the swelling by the exit they afford to the inflammatory exudation. Some Surgeons have recommended that one long cut should be made through the inflamed structures ; so considerable a wound, however, not only inflicts a serious shock on the system, but the loss of blood from it may be so great as to be fatal; moreover, a single long incision does not relieve tension so effectually as a number of smaller ones. These preventive incisions should therefore be from two to three inches in length ; at most they should not extend deeper than into the gelatinous-looking subcutaneous areolar tissue, unless it happen that the disease has extended beneath the fascia, when they may be carried I through it also. The incisions should be so arranged in fours, as I I to enclose a diamond-shaped space, as in this way the greatest I relief is given to the tension of the part. As it is desirable that as little blood as possible be lost, hfcraorrhage may be prevented by elevating the limb and applying a tourniquet before using the knife, but it is better not to employ Esmarch's bandage, for fear of driving the unhealthy inflammatory products into the circulation. In those cases in which the disease is not already complicated with an open wound and decomposing discharges, great advantage will be derived from the employment of antiseptic precautions, thus preventing putrefaction of the effused inflammatory fluids which fill up the spaces of the areolar tissue exposed by the incisions. Before making the incisions, the limb should be well fomented for a quarter of an hour with cloths wetted with a hot solution of carbolic acid (1 in 30). The tourniquet is then applied, and the incisions made with antiseptic precautions. To arrest excessive bleeding, the wounds must be plugged with iodoform or salicylic wool or some other antiseptic material. The treatment may then be caiTied out with the carbolic gauze or some other effi- cient antiseptic dressing, such as hot salicylic wool poultices, iodoform wool or