INJURIES OF SOFT PARTS. 314 when a njevus or pile is ligatured by the Surgeon. The circulation is then immediately arrested, and gangrene results, not preceded by swelling or marked alteration in colour. Accidental strangulation is more commonly gradual. In such cases, the first effect of the constriction is to prevent the return of the venous blood; this occasions serous effusion and oedematous swelling. If relief be not afforded to the circulation by the removal of the constriction, distension of the vessels, stagnation of the blood, and gradual loss of vitality of the part terminating in gangrene will ensue. In many cases in which the strangulation is relieved by the Surgeon, the loss of vitahty is far advanced but not complete, and the restoration of the circulation is then followed by inflammation, varying in intensity with the degree of damage that the tissues have suffered. This is, indeed, merely an illustration of the fact experimentally demonstrated by Cohnheim, that arrest of the circulation in a rabbit's ear gives rise, when the circulation is restored, to inflammation, the intensity of which can be determined by the duration of interference with the flow of blood. The most familiar example of this condition in actual practice is the inflammation of the gut that so frequently follows reduction of a strangulated hernia. • The treatment of strangulation consists in at once dividing or removing the cord or ring, as the case may be. Usually this is easily done, but in some cases it is attended with no little difficulty. This happens especially when a small ring has been hurriedly put on a wrong finger, or when the penis has been drawn through a brass ring. In such cases as these the swelling renders the removal of the foreign body difficult. The finger-ring may usually be removed by slipping a director under it, and clipping or filing it across upon this. Sometimes the following popular plan may advantageously be adopted. A strong silk thread is carefully bound round the finger as tightly as possible from the tip down to the ring, under which the free end is carried with a needle: the thread is then slowlv untwisted, and the rins: is thus carried upon it ofi" the finger. Curtain or other brass rings compressing the root of the penis have been known slowly and gradually to cut through the organ, without destroying its vitality or rendering the urethra impervious, but so fortunate a result is altogether exceptional; in the great majority of such cases, unless the ring be speedily cut off, mortification of the organ will ensue, and may be followed, as it has been in some instances, by the death of the patient. Subcutaneous Wounds.—The remarks that have just been made with respect to the effects of the admission of air into extravasations of blood and subcutaneous lacerations or contusions, apply with equal force to subcutaneous wounds ; indeed such lacerations, ruptures, and injuries are, properly speak- ing, subcutaneous wounds ; that is to say, bones, muscles, ligaments, tendons, and blood-vessels may be broken, torn, contused, and ruptured, and yet, if the skin covering the parts be unbroken, complete repair may take place without the inflammation at any time passing beyond the simple traumatic or adhesive stage, and without more than the slight degree of traumatic fever insepar- able from all serious injuries, which in the slighter injuries would not be recognisable. The Surgeon takes advantage of this most important fact in many of his operations which are performed siibcutaneously; that is to say, the narrow blade of a knife is introduced through a puncture in the skin, tissues are