88 AMPUTATIONS. The Shod inflicted by the injury, with its subsequent evils, is the principal reason for the greater mortaUty after amputations for injury than after those for disease. After amputation for injury, also, there is a greater liability to the occurrence of gangrene of the stump, as the incisions may be carried through tissues which, though apparently sound, may be so bruised as to be beyond recovery. Pyaemia, formerly as frequent in primary as in secondary amputations, should now be equally rare. Exhaustion is more frequent after removal of a limb for disease, as in many cases the operation is necessarily per- formed on patients already weakened by long illness. In many forms of disease, however, especially in allections of bones and joints, it will be iound that those patients do best in whom the disease is most chronic. 4. The Nature of the Disease for which the amputation is performed influences its mortality. Amputations for malignant growths are more fatal than those for diseased joints. This is probably due to the fact that the malignant growths have often given rise to secondary growths in the viscera before the operation was performed. In amputation for tubercular diseases of bones and joints similar disease of the internal organs is not uncommonly found should death occur. When a limb is removed for acute septic suppuration of a joint, a fatal result is of frequent occurrence, especially if the affected articu- lation be a large one, such as the knee. In these cases the patient is usually suffering from severe febrile disturbance, the result of absorption of septic matter from the diseased joint, and amputation under such circumstances is frequently followed by fatal septicasmia. But when the disease has once become chronic, the 'precise period at which the amputation is performed exercises but little influence on the mortality, provided it be not deferred to too late a stage, when the patient's constitution is worn out by hectic. Amputations of expediency—those performed for the convenience of the patient, as in cases of talipes or ankylosis—have been said to be especially fatal. Bryant, in 1859, showed that at Guy's Hospital, death had followed in 40 per cent, of these amputations in the lower extremity. There is no reason, how- ever, to believe that this is true of such amputations at the present time. In fact, as such amputations must necessarily come into the uncomplicated class, a fatal result ought to be a rare and exceptional occurrence. 5. In amputation in case of injury an important question has to be deter- mined, viz., the influence exercised by the Time that has elapsed from the infliction of the injury to the performance of the amputation. Not only the rate of mortality, but the conditions that immediately occasion the fatal event, are influenced by the period at which the operation is performed. Amputations for injury are commonly divided by Surgeons into Pnmari/ 2,n^ Secondary; thQ primary h^mg those that are performed during the first twenty-four or thirty hours, before any spreading inflammation or traumatic fever has developed itself. By secondary amputations many Surgeons mean those operations that are practised after the first twenty-four hours ; whilst others ao-ain more correctly restrict the term to those that are done after suppuration has been fully established, and the surgical fever is begmmng to subside as granulation tissue springs up to present a barrier to the absorption of the septic poison. Those who thus limit the use of the term secondary, call all the operations performed between the end of the first day and the period of full suppuration " intermediate." Tho distinction is of some im- portance, as operations performed during high surgical fever are extremely