CONSTITUTIOJS^AL EFFECTS OF " INJURY. fever, or defervescence, is sometimes rapid, occurring in a period varying- from twenty-four to thirty-six hours : but should the wound be one in whicli perfect drainage is difficult, as in a compound fracture, decomposing pus may be still pent up in parts of the cavity at some degree of pressure, and under these cir- cumstances the decline of the fever will be much delayed, and the symptoms may gradually merge into those of " hectic," attended with the marked evening exacerbations, the jirofuse sweats, and progressive loss of strength. Traumatic Delirium presents itself as tAvo distinct types, the one inflam- matory, the other nervous. In Inflammatory Traumatic Delirium there is a quick and bounding pulse, hot skin and head, flushed cheeks, glistening eyes, much thirst, and high fever ; in fact, this form is merely the delirium which accompanies the fever consequent npon the al)Sorption of the products of septic or infective inflammation from the wound. Occasionally the patient is violent, tossing himself about the bed, and moving the injured part, insensible to or regardless of pain. More often there is mere wandering of mind ; and in mild cases the patient will answer questions rationally. The symptoms are most marked at night, and diminish when the morning fall of temperature commences ; they usually set in on the third day, and are most marked by the third or fourth, which, as before stated, is the time at which septic traumatic fever reaches its highest point. The Troatmcni of this form is best carried out by the applica- tion of ice to the head : the bowels must be kept well open, and the diet must be light but nutritious. The use of stimulants must be determined by the state of the pulse ; when this is very rapid, alcohol often diminishes the delirium and produces sleep ; when it is very full and bounding and the patient is young, bleeding from the arm may occasionally be resorted to, but this is seldom required. The patient must be carefully Avatched, as there is often a constant desire to get out of bed. At the same time that these measures are adopted, local means must not be neglected to subdue the inflam- mation, and remove any septic matter or pent-up discharges which may be giving rise to the febrile disturbance. Nervous Traumatic Delirium usually occurs in persons whose consti- tutions have been broken by habitual excess in drinking ; and in fact, it is in most cases, if not always, an nttRck of ordinary delirium tremens, induced by the shock of tJie accident. Most commonly the earliest sign is want of sleep, with a restless nervous manner ; in some rare cases it is preceded by a fit of an epileptiform character. The pulse becomes quick, small, and irrital^le ; the surface is cool, and usually covered with a clammy offensive perspiration ; in cases uncomplicated by an open wound there is usually no elevation of temperature ; should there be fever, the gravity of the case is greatly increased. The tongue is white and furred, and there is usually tremor both of it and of the hands. The delirium is of a muttering, suspecting character ; the patient is often harassed by spectral illusions, but will answer questions rationally. Traumatic delirium tremens is sometimes very rapidly fatal. I have known'it to destroy life in cases of simple fracture in less than twelve hours. In other cases, death takes place after some days from exhaustion : and the fatal termination is occasionally sudden. A form of maniacal delirium is occasionally met with after operations in persons of great nervous susceptibility, who have been exposed to severe mental strain before the operation. It has been not unfrequently observed after