FRACTURE OF CLAVICLE. 579 nearer the acromion between the two Coraco-clavicular Ligaments. 3. Its Outer End may be broken off externally to the outermost point of insertion of the trapezoid ligament, between it and the acromion. These latter two fractures cau scarcely occur from indirect, but are almost always the result of direct, violence. 4. The clavicle may be broken internally, that is, to the Sternal Side of the Rhomboid Ligament, usually about three-quarters of an inch from its sternal articulation. This injury is of very rare occurrence. R. W. Smith, although admitting its possibility, states that there is no actual proof, from dissection, of its having occurred. According to J. Hutchinson, Junr., there are but three cases on record of separation of the epiphysis of the clavicle. The epiphysis joins the shaft about the 25th year. The Signs will depend upon the seat of fracture. When the bone is broken hehveen the conoid and trapezoid ligaments, there is little, if any, displacement, but pain on pressure, some crepitus on moving the shoulder, and slight irre- gularity on running the finger along the bone are usually present. When the fracture is external to the coraco-clavicular ligaments, there is a remarkable displacement of the scapular fragment, which is turned forwards and inwards, with a slight Inclination downwards, nearly at right angles to the rest of the bone, apparently by the dragging of the weight of the shoulder, the point of which is rounded forwards (Fig. 181). When the fracture Fig. isi.-Practure of ciavicie, ,1 -in /• 17 7 _L J. outside of Coraco-clavicular occurs aoout the middle of the bone, or at any part on Ligauieut. the sternal side of the scapular ligaments, there is a well-marked deformity, owing to a triple displacement of the inner end of the outer fragment inwards, downwards, and slightly backwards, while the outer end is rotated forwards (Fig. 182). This displacement is due to two causes, one of which is mechanical and the other muscular. The displacement downwards is due chiefly to the weight of the arm, but the contraction of the deltoid would also aid in depressing the inner end of the outer fragment. The displacement inwards is due to the action of the muscles passing from the chest to the arm and scapula, the pectoralis major and minor, and the latissimus dorsi ; the rotation forwards and the pointing of the sternal end of the outer fragment backwards is due to the more powerful action of the pectoral muscles. The outer extremity of the inner fragment appears to be elevated, the skin being drawn tensely over it ; but this is owing rather to the depression of the outer portion of the bone ; it is usually kept fixed by the antagonism between the stcrno-cleido-mastoid' and great pectoral muscles. It may, however, in some cases be raised. This is when the clavicular portion of the sterno-cleido-mastoid muscle is unusually strong, and when the fracture has taken place just outside its insertion into the clavicle ; or it may be raised and pushed forwards, by the inner end of the outer fragment getting below or behind it. On looking at a patient with fracture of the clavicle in this situation, the nature of the injury is at once evident. The approximation of the point of the shoulder towards the sternum ; the pro- minence formed by the outer end of the inner fragment, over which the skin is stretched ; the sudden depression under this, and the crepitus, which can easily be induced by elevating and rotating the shoulder at the same time that the elbow is pressed to the side, indicate the nature of the injury. The attitude of the patient is remarkable ; he sits, leaning his head down to the p p 2