338 INJURIES OF SOFT FARTS. and to the development of pygemia, averted. There is no more fertile cause of these disastrous effects than the retention of foetid decomposing pus in the areolar tissue of a contused Avound. The separation of the sloughs must be facilitated by the application of warmth and moisture, which serves also to subdue local inflammation. Boric acid lint, moistened with hot boric lotion and covered with oiled silk and cotton-wool, is one of the best of all applications. It is most efficient, easily applied, and perfectly clean. If the wound becomes foul, the surface may be sprinkled with iodoform in crystals. Carded oakum, moistened in hot water and covered with oiled silk, answers the purpose tolerably well ; it is cheap and antiseptic, but dirties the skin. Linseed meal poultices should always be avoided ; they encourage putrefaction and greatly increase the suppuration, the evil they do in this way more than counterbalancing any comfort the patient may experience from their application. About the period at which the slough begins to be loosened, there is danger of the occurrence of haemorrhage if a large artery have been implicated in the injury. When heemorrhage occurs in this way, it usually sets in from the sixth to the twelfth day, and may be speedily fatal ; the treatment should be the same as that to be hereafter described for secondary hremorrhage after ligature of an artery in its continuity. After the sloughs have separated, an ulcer is left, which must be treated on general principles. Amputation.—In the more severe cases of contused or lacerated wounds, any attempt to save the part may be hopeless, and the patient's only chance lies in amputation. In determining the expediency of operation, two questions present themselves : 1, the nature of the cases m which amputation should be performed ; and, 2, the time at which it should be done, whether immediately after the infliction of the injury, or subsequently. It is difficult to lay down more than very general rules as to the land of cases that require, amputation, much depending on the age, constitution, and previous habits of the patient. In any case the Surgeon should be careful not to condemn a limb which there seems to be a fair chance of saving. As a general rule, severe injuries are more readily recovered from in the young than in the old, their vitality being greater, and their tendency to consecutive diseases less. Much will depend upon the habits of the patient, or upon the existence of visceral disease at the time of the injury. In persons who have been free livers, and who have that peculiar irritability of system conjoined with deficient power commonly observed in such subjects, and more especially if there be disease of the liver or kidneys, contused and lacerated wounds are apt to be followed by the worst forms of erysipelas and gangrenous cellulitis, and thus to be speedily fatal. Injuries of the upper extremity are less serious than those of the lower, its supply of blood being proportionately greater. In some contused wounds of the arm and hand, as in bad lacerations with fracture about the shoulder, elbow, or metacarpus, resection of the injured part may be performed instead of amputation of the limb. Though there must be in many cases a doubt as to the necessity of amputa- tion, there are certain conditions in which the Surgeon need never hesitate to perform this operation, as the only chance of saving the patient's life. The following are cases in which the limb should be amputated, either Avith the view of preventing the occurrence of gangrene, or in order to remove a morti- fied part, and thus save the life of the patient at the expense of the injured limb: