TUMOURS. lO 12 reaction and sometimes coloured from the admixture of altered blood. Chemically it is found to contain met-albumin and par-albumin, and some- times mucin, from which it is assumed that the fluid is a true secretion, in the formation of which the epithelial lining is concerned. In the proliferous cysts of the mamma the intracystic growths assume a lobulated or cauliflower-like form, and in structure are found rudely to resemble the normal structure of the mamma. These growths may, according to Paget, by their increase in size cause the gradual absorption of the more fluid contents, until, at last, their development is arrested by the cyst-wall. The tumour Avould then resemble an ordinary adenoma of the mamma sur- rounded by a distinct capsule. The cystic tumours of the ovary, jnamma, and testis, will be more fully described with the diseases of those organs. (d) Cysts in Tumours form, not as an essential part of the growth, but Fig. S55 —Head and neck of an adult, witli diagrammatic lines, representing the situation and direction of the branchial and otlier clefts. 1, 2, 3, 4, first, second, third, and fourth clelts ; 5, intermaxillary cleft; 6, Frouto-orbital fissure ; 7, uaso-maxiUary fissure. as an accidental complication. They may arise from softening of portions of the growth, or from haemorrhage into its structure. As a rule they are not surrounded by a distinct wall, but in some simple tumours they seem to increase by transudation of serum into the cavity, and thus the surrounding structure may be compressed so as to resemble a Hmiting membrane. Carti- lao-inous tumours occasionally become cystic from mucous softening of the matrix. Cysts in tumours will be more fully described with the growths in which they occur. III. Congenital Cysts.—This class includes -.—{a.) Cysts lined with skin or mucous membrane and resulting from inclusion of the epiblast within the mesoblast during development or more rarely from imperfect obliteration of some foetal canal. These are Dermoid Cysts, {h.) Cysts arising from imperfectly obliterated temporary foetal structures.