77 CONICAL STUMPS. just touching the stump ; after this he adds one daily till the stump becomes accustomed to bear the necessary degree of pressure. In all amputations through the knee-joint or condyles of thj femur, and in Synie's or Pirogoff's amputation at the ankle, the patient should be able to bear his whole weight on the stump without difficulty. Morbid Conditions of Stumps.—Septic osteomyelitis, that is to say, septic inflammation of the medulla of the bone, when the canal has been opened in removing the limb, is one of the most serious accidents that can happen after an amputation. It most frequently occurs during the second week after the operation. The symptoms and pathology are fully described in the Chapter on Diseases of Bone. It was formerly a frequent cause of pyaemia, but with the present im.proved treatment of wounds it is very rare, Ifecrosis.—It not unfrequently happens that a small scale of bone which has been injured by the saw dies, and is separated some three or four weeks after the operation. This is most common in those stumps which unite by second intention, and in which the bone has been bathed in pus for some time. It is said, also, in some cases, to be due to the heat generated by too violent sawing. It is to be prevented by careful sawing, by saving the periosteum as described on page 71, and by the prevention of suppuration by careful antiseptic dressing. More extensive necrosis used to be a frequent consequence of septic osteomyelitis, but under the improved systems of dressing it is comparatively rare. In such cases sinuses will be left leading to the necrosed bone, which usually separates three or four months after the operation, the stump then be- coming firmly consolidated. The sequestrum in such cases pre- sents the following appearances :—the lower part is thick and annular, and includes the whole thickness of the bone. It is smooth externally, where it has been covered by the perios- teum. About an inch or less above this it becomes thinner, is composed of the innermost part of the bone—that which surrounds the medullary canal —and is roughened externally, where it has separated from the adjacent healthy bone ; above this it is spiculated and very irregular, becoming gradually thinner (Fig. 29). The part of the bone which escapes necrosis is inflamed, and, as a consequence of osteoplastic periostitis, new bone is deposited abundantly on its surface, leading to a great increase in its thick- ness, which can be recognised readily through the soft parts. Conical or "Sugar-loaf" Stumps, as they are called, commonly form, either in consequence of the flaps having been cut too short, or from the soft parts not having been sufficiently retracted before the bone was sawn ; but in other cases they may occur, though the stump has been skilfully fashioned, in FiL'. 30.- -Extreiue I'ase of Conical Stuinp. l''ig. 20.—Necrosied end of Fouur from Stump.