INHERITED SYPHILIS: SYMPTOMS. that, shortly after birth, evidences of infantile syphilis had appeared ; that these had yielded to treatment, but that, as the period of puberty approached, the rash, which was undoubtedly syphilitic, had shown itself. Symptoms.—The symptoms of inherited syphilis are sufficiently well marked in most cases, consisting principally of general constitutional dis- turbance, with affections of the skin, mucous membranes, bones, viscera, and eye, which more or less closely resemble the manifestations of acquired syphilis. Constitutional Symptcms.—The first indication is often the atrophic and cachectic appearance of the child ; this not uufrequently shows itself at birth, without any more definite signs of the disease. Such children are often small, shrivelled, wan and wasted when born; the face especially has an aged look, the features being pinched, the flesh soft and flabby, and the skin loose and wrinkled; the complexion has a yellowish or earthy tinge, which has been compared to that of cafe au lait. These appearances are, however, by no means always present. Many syphilitic children are born apparently healthy and fat; but they soon emaciate Avhen the cutaneous and other manifestations of the disease make their appearance a few weeks after birth. In slight cases, however, the child may remain fat and well-nourished, though ansemic, throughout the whole course of the symptoms. Local Symptoms.—In the great majority of cases the most marked symptoms are due to the aflTections of the skin and mucous membranes. As in acquired syphilis the first appearance may be a roseolous eruption on the skin, but this is of short duration, and seldom clearly marked. The earliest marked feature is usually the appearance of mucous tubercles. These form at the angles of the lips, in the cavity of the mouth, in the pharynx, in the nose, at the anus, and wherever the skin is moist, as in the folds of the groin, and between the scrotum and thigh. They are of the same nature and appearance as those met with in. acquired syphilis. The affection of the nose is amongst the most constant and characteristic features of the disease, and is usually the earliest local sign that declares itself. There is much congestive swelling of the mucous membrane, with a secretion of thick yellow offensive mucus, causing the child to make a peculiar snuffling noise in breathing, as if it had a chronic catarrh. This symptom is so constant that it has given rise to the popular name of " the snuffles " which is applied to congenital syphilis. The degree to which the nose is affected varies con- siderably. In the mildest cases the symptoms merely resemble those of a slight cold; in the most extreme forms the discharge dries into scabs at the nostrils,, beneath which ulcers may form; mucous tubercles develop on the membrane, and ulceration may follow, leading to disease of the bones, with flattening of the bridge of the nose. In all cases free breathing through the nose is inter- fered with, sucking consequently becomes difficult, and the trouble in feeding the child is correspondingly increased. The mouth is similarly alfected, but usually in a less degree. Radiating fissures, sometimes extending somewhat deeply, are common on the lips, espe- cially at the angles of the mouth. The mucous membrane of the cheeks and tongue is covered with mucous patches, and sometimes with superficial ulcers. The mucous membrane of the larynx is congested and swollen in most cases, and sometimes mucous tubercles may be formed at the opening of the glottis. The laryngeal affection is the cause of the hoarse cry which usually forms a marked feature in the disease.