476 WOUNDS OF SPECIAL BLOOD-VESSELS. to allow of the temporary arrest of the hleeding by digital pressure below the carotid tubercle, this should be at once done. The wound must then be enlarged, and if possible, the artery tied above and below the bleeding point, parts of one or more of the transverse processes being removed, if necessary. Failing this, the Surgeon must resort to careful plugging of the wound, or he may be able to seize the bleeding vessel in forcipressure-forceps and leave them in situ for several days. Traumatic Aneurism of the Vertebral Artery has been recorded in twenty cases by Matas, of which six recovered, one of these being a case of his own, in which the sac was freely laid open in the suboccipital region and the htemorrhage successively arrested by plugging. This treatment would appear to give the best hope of success, if digital compression of the arter}- and direct pressure on the aneurism fail to produce a cure. VESSELS OF THE TEUNK. Inteiinal Mammary.—Wounds of this artery rarely come under treatment, as its course lies chiefly in front of the heart and great vessels, so that pene- trating wounds implicating it are usually immediately fatal from injury to the parts beneath. The treatment, in case the patient escapes fatal injuries ti) deeper parts, is to tie the artery at the wounded spot, if necessary removing a costal cartilage in order to expose it. No other treatment is likely to arrest the bleeding, because of the free anastomoses with the intercostals. Intercostal Arteries.—These are rarely wounded except in gunshot wounds or stabs fracturing a rib. The hasmorrhage is seldom severe ; but should it require treatment, the lower border of the rib corresponding to the artery must be exposed by a free incision. On removing the fragments the bleeding artery may come into view, and can be twisted or tied ; or it may be turned out of its groove by means of a periosteal elevator, and sufficiently exposed to be tied. If necessary, a piece of rib may be removed to lay bare the vessel more fully. As a temporary means, pressure can be applied thus :— A piece of linen is to be pushed through the wound into the pleural cavity, so as to form a pocket ; inside a sufficient quantity of lint or tow is pushed into the pocket to make it too large to pass out by the intercostal space ; it is then forcibly pulled upon by the part of the linen outside the chest-walls, and secured in position by a couple of pins pushed across on a level with the skin. VESSELS OP THE UPPER LIMB. Subclavian Artery.—Wounds of the Subclavian Artery are almost invariably fatal ; though, owing to the protection afforded by the clavicle, they rarely occur except from gunshot injuries or stabs. From the rapidlj fatal nature of wounds of the subclavian artery. Traumatic Aneurisms in this situation are not met with ; but where the artery passes into the axilla below the margin of the first rib, they are not unfrequent. Aneurismal Varix, resulting from wound of the Subclavian Artery and Vein, has been seen, notwithstanding the separation that exists between the two vessels throughout their whole extent. These injuries have likewise usually been the result of sword-thrusts, and do not admit of any surgical interference.