LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCEF. 1107 CHAPTER XXXYI. VENEREAL DISEASES. The term Venereal Disease is used to denote those affections which arise primarily from sexual intercourse, viz., the Local Contagious Chancre, Syphilis, and Gonorrhcea. Hunter believed that all these arose from one poison ; but the experiments of Ricord and others conclusively proved that gonorrhoea! pus when inoculated never produces a chancre, and the pus of a chancre cannot cause gonorrhoea. Syphilis and the local contagious chancre, were, therefore, clearly separated from gonorrhoea ; but for a considerable time these two were still included under the common name of syphilis. Ricord, however, by inoculation showed that the two diseases are not identical. The inoculation of the virus of syphilis infects the whole system, while that of the local contagious chancre is never followed by constitutional symptoms. Each of the diseases—Local Contagious Chancre, Syphilis, and Gonorrhoea—propagates itself, and no other. All these diseases may, however, co-exist in the same person. Thus, we shall have occasion to notice the coincidence, in some cases, of the local chancre with the phenomena of constitutional syphilis. Again, Ricord has pointed out, that a woman may at the same time be affected by gonorrhoea and by chancres on the uterus ; and this probably explains those cases in which, after connexion with the same woman, different men have contracted different forms of disease, or even both affections. It is impossible here to discuss the various views which were formerly held with regard to the supposed relation of the virus of the local contagious sore or soft chancre to that of true syphilis. For this I must refer the reader to special works on venereal diseases. In this chapter will be described—1, the liOcal Contagious Ulcer or Chancre ; and 2, Sypfiilis ; the consideration of Gonorrhcca being reserved till we speak of Diseases of the Urinary Organs. 1. LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER OR CHANCRE. The Local Contagious Ulcer, Simple Non-infecting Sore or Soft Chancre, is a local infective inflammation, produced by the action of a virus which increases in quantity in the affected area. The increase of the poison is supposed to take place by a process analogous to fermentation occurring in the inflammatory exudations. Thus the inoculation of an infinitesimal dose of the poison may result in the formation of a sore from which many drachms of infective pus may be discharged before the process ceases. The intensity of the local action of the poison is such as to cause a progressive destruction of the tissues by ulceration. As a rule it shows but little tendency to diffuse itself amongst the tissues, the area of inflammation beneath and around the ulcerating surface being usually very limited. Occasionally, however, from 4 B 2