315 INCISED WOUNDS. freely divided, and on the withdrawal of the knife the wound is so closed either by the approximation of its valvular edges, or by the pressure of a compress, that the entrance of air is prevented, and thus healing takes place by the first intention, without constitutional disturbance, as in a subcutaneous laceration. This is the principle on which the operation of tenotomy is performed. The only treatment needed in a subcutaneous wound i^ rest and protection of the skin. The unbroken skin is a more certain antiseptic than any surgical dressing. OPEN WOUNDS. A wound may best be defined, in the words of Wiseman, as " a solution of continuity in any part of the body, suddenly made by anything that cuts or tears, with a division of the skin." Surgeons divide wounds into five kinds. Incised, Lacerated, Contused, Punctured, and Poisoned. INCISED WOUNDS. Incised wounds are those made by a sharp-cutting instrument such as a knife or sAvord. They may vary in extent from a simple superficial cut to the incision required in amputation at the hip-joint. They may be simple, implicating merely integument or integument and muscle; or they may be complicated with injury of the larger vessels and nerves, or of important organs. Symptoms.—All incised wounds give rise to three symptoms ; viz. Pain, HjBinorrhage, and Separation of the lips of the wound. a cutting, burning, or smarting character. The intensity of the pain varies with the abundance of the nervous supply of the part ; a wound of the hand, for instance, is much more painful than one of the skin of the back. ^ The amount of Haemorrhage necessarily depends upon the vascularity of the part as well as on the size of the wound. The proximity of the part wounded to the centre of the circulation, or to a large vessel, has also a very considerable influence, different parts of the same tissue bleeding with different degrees of faciUty ; thus the skin of the face yields when cut more blood than that of the. leg. Again, the same parts will pour out a larger quantity of blood when the vessels are dilated in consequence of local irritation than when they are in their normal condition. The Separation of the Lips of the Wound depends on the tension and the position of the part as well as on the elasticity and vital contractility of the tissues ; it is also influenced by the direction of the incision, accordino- as this 18 parallel to the axis of a limb or muscle or across it. It is o-reatest in those parts that are naturally the most elastic or that possess the highest deo-ree of tonicity; thus the muscles when cut retract some inches, the arteries tnd skin gape widely when divided, whereas in the case of ligaments or bones no retraction takes place. ' Management of Incised Wounds.-Iu the treatment of an incised wound we must always endeavour to procure union by first intention (p. 28G) between a portion, if not the whole, of the surfaces, for reasons already given This