122 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. carried across the bone, slightly inclining backwards, to the inner side of the ankle, where it terminates at the point exactly opposite its commencement" (that is, a little below and behind the internal malleolus). On the left side the direction of the incision is reversed. " The extremities of the incision thus formed are then joined by another passing in front of the joint. The operator next proceeds to detach the flap from the bone " (Fig. 64). The object of carrying the incision so far back is, that the dissection of the flap may commence fi'om the most prominent point of the plantar surface of the OS calcis, that is to say, from the anterior part of the two tubercles of that bone. Every eighth of an inch in front of this point increases the difficulty of raising the flap. When the heel flap is turned back, the ankle-joint must 1 Fig. 64.—Syme's Amputation of the Foot. Fig. 65.—Syiue's Ampiitation of the Foot. Clearing the Os Calci.s. Anterior Incision and Disarticulation. be opened in front by cutting firmly across the line of the articulation, which is about half an inch above the tip of the inner malleolus, while the foot is forcibly extended. As soon as the joint opens sufficiently, the lateral ligaments are to be divided by cutting downwards between the malleoli and the lateral surfaces of the astragalus. The tendo Achillis is divided by pressing the foot forcibly downwards and cutting from before backwards, unless it has already been cut in turning back the heel flap. By twisting and dissecting at the same time the os calcis is completely separated from its soft attachments, and the foot removed (Fig. 65). The soft parts are then turned up from the lower ends of the tibia and fibula, the knife being kept close to the bones so as not to wound the vessels that lie immediately behind eacb malleolus. The whole of the parts of the tibia and fibula which enter into the ankle-joint are then sawn ofiT, the arteries tied and the flap brought up. Care must be taken