VISCERAL SYFHILIS. uniform thickening. In either case there is likely to be considerable subacute or chronic effusion into the joint, and this may occur w.thout any o^^rj^ga of disease. Periosteal thickening of the articular ends of the bones may occur. These joint affections are usually accompanied by considerable nocturnal pain, but a painless chronic synovitis may be met with^ ^"""^ffZ cure may follow suitable treatment, but a varying amount of stiffness ot ttie joint often remains. ^ „ . ' (lummatous infiltration of the Burs® is an occasional symptom teitiary syphilis. In a case recently in University College Hospital considerable solid enlargement of each bursa patellae was present in a woman whose palate showed uumistakeable evidence of old syphilitic ulceration. The sweihngs completely disappeared after a course of iodide of potassium. 7 Syphilitic disease of the Muscles and Tendons has been described by Bouisson and others. These structures are not unfrequently affected, bub less often than the bones. In the muscles diffuse sclerosis has been described, but it is exceedin"-ly rare. Gummata are much more common ; they form iJI- defined tumours in the substance of the muscle, growing slowly, with some achino- pain and tenderness. They are less prone to soften than similar .rrowths in more superficial structures. Elongated tumours resembhng nodes have been described as affecting the tendons, and gummata are occasionally observed in their substance. They resemble similar growths elsewhere, and are best treated by iodide of potassium. 8. SyphiUtic disease of the Testicle.—This assumes two forms—the diffuse over<^rowth of the intertubular connective tissue, and the formation of o-ummata! These diseases affect the body of the gland, and are always met witli as tertiary phenomena. The symptoms, pathological appearances, and treatment, are fully described with Diseases of the Testicle, Yol. II. 1). Syphilitic Ovaritis is a disease that I beheve I have on several occa- sions met with. The history of the cases has been uniformly as follows : an attack of syphilis long before; various constitutional symptoms running through secondary and tertiary stages ; inflammatory congestion of one ovary,^ its determined by vaginal and rectal exploration ; eventual cure by means of leeching and the perchloride of mercury and bark or iodide of potassium— iu factt a condition of things closely resembling w^hat occurs in syphilitic disease of the testicle. 10. Visceral Syphilis.—Our knowledge of the syphihtic diseases ot internal organs is of modern origin. "Visceral Syphihs" was not only unknown to, but unsuspected by, so acute an observer as John Hunter, and the syphilographers of the early part of this century make no mention of it. To Dittrich, Lancereaux, Wilks, Bristowe, and Moxon we are indebted for the establishment of the fact that, after external manifestations of syphilis have in a great measure, if not entirely, disappeared, and the disease has entered its tertiary stage, gummata may form in most, if not in all, the internal organs, producing serious functional disturbance, and leading to organic changes of the most extensive and fatal character. It may now be taken as. a fact incontestably established by numerous patho- loo-ical observations, that there are few, if any, organs that escape the ravages of syphilis ; and although there may be a doubt whether some of the forms of disease met with in certain organs, as the liver, lungs, and spleen, and described as syphilitic, may not in reality be due to non-specific disease, to which, as well