453 SECONDARY HAEMORRHAGE. Intermediate or Reactionary Hemorrhage.—This term is limited to haemorrhage occurring within twenty-four hours of the wound of the vessel. It most commonly occurs within twelve hours of the infliction of the injury. Causes.—At the end of an operation the patient is often faint from the combined shock, loss of blood, and the depressing influence of the anesthetic ; at the same time the exposure of the wound to the air, and the mechanical stimulus of the knife and the sponges, have caused the greatest possible degree of contraction of the mouths of the wounded vessels. Under these circum- stances, vessels of considerable size may not yield a drop of blood. As soon as the wound is closed, however, and warmly dressed, and the patient put to bed, the faintness begins to pass off, the heart beats more forcibly, the contracted vessels dilate, and haemorrhage takes place. At the same time, if any vessel have been imperfectly tied—owing to carelessness on the part of the Surgeon, or to the use of badly-prepared rigid catgut—the knot may yield, and the ligature may slip off. The wound of a collaieral hranch above the point of application of the ligature, though it does not bleed much at the time, will, as I have seen, cause furious bleeding as the collateral circulation becomes established. Phenomena.—As the bleeding comes as a rule only from the smaller \ essels, it is seldom very profuse. It usually distends the wound, tightening the stitches, and causing the patient considerable pain. Treatment.—Stimulants should be avoided as far as possible during the first few hours after an operation, so that recovery from shock may be gradual. The local treatment is the same as that of primary hagmorrhage. If the oozing be very slight, the part may be raised and gentle pressure applied ; if more abundant, the wound must be opened up, and the bleeding vessel secured. If the wound is much distended by clots, the pressure thus produced may arrest the bleeding ; but it is better for the patient under these circumstances to open up the wound, turn out the clots, and secure any vessel that may be found, as the mass of coagulum between the surfaces would form a serious obstacle to union by the first intention. If at an operation the patient be very faint, and the smaller arteries which might be expected to bleed cannot be Ibund, they may sometimes be made apparent by bathing the wound with carbolic lotion or some other antiseptic solution at a temperature of about 98° Fahr. In private practice it is better to do all operations if possible early in the morning, so that if reactionary hfBmorrhage should occur, it may take place in the day and not in the night. Secondary or Recurrent Hemorrhage.—By Secondary Haemorrhage is meant bleeding which comes on after the employment of any of the above- mentioned modes of arresting haemorrhage at any period after the first twenty- four hours. This accident may arise from a variety of causes, which may be divided first into two great classes :—1. Constitutional Causes ; and 2. Local ('auses. Constitutional Causes.—It has already been pointed out that the healthy closure of a wounded artery is a process analogous in every respect to union by first intention ; the internal coagulum serving the important purpose of pro- tecting the soft new tissue, by means of which the mouth of the wounded vessel is being closed, from the direct impulse of the wave of blood from the heart. All those constitutional conditions which have already been described as being unfavourable to union by the first intention, are therefore equally