CUTANEOUS ERYSIPELAS: DIAGNOSIS. 947 some cases the fever distinctly precedes the appearance of the rash, sometimes by as much as 48 hours. Moreover, 1 have seen a constitutional disturb- ance of the same type as that accompanying the local inflammation occur without any such complication. This I had special occasion to observe in a very fatal outbreak of erysipelas that took place in one of my wards in 1851. On that occasion, all the cases in which the cutaneous form of erysipelas appeared were marked by severe constitutional disturbance, attended with much gastro-intestinal irritation. But precisely the same type of general febrile symptoms occurred in patients in the same ward in whom no local manifestation of the disease took place. 3. The severe constitutional dis- turbance accompanying the disease is often apparently out of proportion to the local mischief. 4. In many cases the disease seems to break out without any breach of surface at which inoculation could have occurred. In some cases it has been known to commence at the edge of a carbolic acid dressing, and not at the wound. 5. As is the case with other acute specific diseases, an attack confers a temporary immunity from the disease ; and 6. The fact of its inoculability is no argument against the theory that it is a general disease, for we see the same in small-pox and syphilis. In favour of the local theory the following facts are urged :—1. Local diseases as well as general occur in an epidemic form. 2. When the fever appeai-s to pi-eccde the eruption careful observation will always show some local disturbance ; either the wound has become red and dry or the lymphatic glands nearest it are tender and swollen. When gastro-intestinal disturbance occurs in many patients in a ward, some of whom develop erysipelas while others do not, the disordered health is not due to the specific virus but to some unhealthy state of the ward which may act as a predisposing cause of erysipelas. 3. The fever continues as long as the rash is extending, and ceases at once when its progress is arrested. In inoculation erysipelas in the rabbit's ear, all constitutional symptoms disappear at once if the ear is amputated. 4. The breach of surface necessary for inoculation is merely microscopic, and consequently it is impossible ever to say with certainty that none existed. Slight excoriations of the skin are very common at the edge of antiseptic dressings, and may readily serve as points of inoculation. 5. Temporary immunity against a second attack is believed to be conferred in other diseases which are primarily local, as in some forms of dissection-wound The immunity in erysipelas is of very short duration, and patients are frequently met with who are liable to repeated attacks of the disease 6. Erysipelas difters from acute specific diseases in having no appreciable period of inoculation, and no definite course or duration. 7 Lastly the characteristic organism has not been demonstrated in the blood or cultivated from it either in animals or in man. The balance of evidence is therefore in favour of the local theory of the disease, and although it cannot be denied that the virus, through not multiply- ing m the blood, may possibly, under exceptional circumstances, enter from the lungs or ahmentary canal, and be carried to the wound by the blood yet this is not the rule, and we may hope to prevent the occurrence of this most serious complication of wounds by means calculated to protect the raw surface from the virus. ^ Diagnosis. —The diagnosis of cutaneous erysipelas is generally easv From the e.rantliemata, ic is distinguished by the character of the eruption • bv the way in which it spreads from a single spot, usuallv a wound or raw surface •