I'34 VENEREAL DISEASES. has been pointed out by Grreenfield, from a gradual obliteration of the small arteries entering the mass by the process, already described, of proliferation of the endothelium and thickening of the external coat. Probably also the pressure of the new cells, closely packed together, obstructs the circulation through the capillaries. As a result of the star\-ing of the new tissue thus brought about, fatty degeneration takes place. The cells Avither and become filled with fat granules, and finally are represented merely by fatty debris, amongst which the individual elements are not recognizable. The intercellular tissue, when fibrillated, undergoes but little change, and thus the caseous mass retains a considerable degree of toughness, very different from that of yello^^• tubercle. The caseation may follow very closely on the growth ; but while growing, a gumma is always surrounded by a zone of cell-infiltration of the neighbouring connective tissue, with vessels of new formation amongst the cells. The case- ated centre of an old gumma often contains crystals of cholesterine. Gum- mata vary somewhat in consistence according to the degree of fibrillation of the intercellular substance. In some cases mucous softening seems to take place and the gumma may be almost gelatinous in consistence. The ultimate fate of a gumma varies in different parts and under different circumstances. Even after caseation and partial softening it may, under proper treatment, be completely absorbed, leaving Via. 403.—Syphilitic Guiniiia, showing a large „ HpnrpcjciPfl fihi-nnR piVflt-riY hphinrl h Tn vessel becoming obliterated by proliferation of UepieSSeU nOlOUS GlCatllX Uenilia It. in the endothelium. Other cases, especially in gummata of the subcutaneous tissue, bone and muscle, softening takes place, followed by suppuration round the softened mass. The pus finally reaches the surface, and the tissue of the gumma is cast off as a slough. The slough is tenacious and slow to separate even after the pus has been discharged. It has been very aptly compared to a piece of wet wash- leather. In this it differs entirely from caseated tubercle, which, under similar circumstances, forms a granular mass which can readily be scraped away with a sharp spoon. In the liver, testicle and brain growth may cease, and the surrounding zone of cell-infiltration, instead of degenerating, may be developed into a fibrous capsule, which may enclose the caseated mass and completely encyst it. In this condition it may remain permanently without causing further mischief. Calcification occasionally takes place, but is far from common. A fully developed gumma, free from softening, presents to the naked eye on section the following appearances. The cut surface is smooth, of a pale straw yellow colour, of tough consistence, and on scraping yields but a small amount of granular deb?'is, sometimes scarcely any. Though its outline is tolerably well defined, it can always be seen that the growth is not circumscribed, but is surrounded by a greyish semi-transparent or opaque zone infiltratino-