697 FEMUR, DOWNWARDS AND OUTWARDS. locations. Should it be necessary, as in an old dislocation, it would be bettei to flex the thigh more than is shown in the figure after the bone had been brought down as far as possible by extension in the axis of the limb. Reduction of the Dislocation below the Tendon of the Obturator is effected by the same processes of manipulation as in the other form of the dorsal dislocation. The first method, that of traction, is usually at once Fif,'. -278.—Reiluetioii nf Uio-sciatic Dislocation l)y Extension. successful. Astlcy Cooper found great difficulty in the reduction of ^ this dislocation, and he, Lisfrauc and other Surgeons, have failed to reduce it by extension. They believed that the difficulty arose from the head of the bone sinking into the great sciatic notch. The fallacy of this view and the part played by the obturator internus in resisting j'eductiou by extension in the axis of the limb has already been pointed out. Should extension be necessary, it must be made with the thigh flexed at a right angle to the trunk. In either of these dislocations, if difficulty arise in raising the bone over the edge of the acetabulum, recourse may be had to the plan recommended by Astley Cooper, of lifting the head of the bone over the edge of the acetabulum by means of a round towel ])laced under the upper part of the thigh and over the shoulders of an assistant, who, first stooping and at the same time resting his foot on the patient's pelvis, should then raise his shoulders and draw the bone towards its socket. Dislocation downwards and outwards towards the tuberosity of the ischium is described by Bigelow as closely allied to the dorsal dislocation below the tendon. It arises from causes similar to those giving rise to a dorsal dislocation, applied when the thigh is fully flexed on the abdomen. The head of the bone bursts out through the capsule and passes below the tendon of the obturator internus, rupturing the gemellus inferior and the (piadratus, and comes to lie close to the tuberosity of the ischium. It can be felt in this situation ; there is extreme flexion and adduction and rotation inwards (Fig. 279). On extending the limb, the neck of the bone remaining fixed by the ilio-femoral ligament, the head passes upwards behind the tendon of the obturator internus, and the dislocation is thus converted into an ordinary ' dorsal below the tendon." i.n-. ■r,\>.—Dislocation Down- wards and Outwards to- wards tlio Tuborosity belnw Tendon. (Bigelow.)