LOCAL CONTAGIOUS ULCER: SITUATION. im soTD sore in a person already sufiFering from syphilis, and Berkeley Plill states that a considerable proportion of cases are followed by secondary symptoms. As soon as the phagedsenic ulceration sets in, the characteristic appearances of the sore are lost, so that it is not possible to say what form it had originally assumed. • • k The phagedtenic chancre is characterized by a tendency to erosion, with extensive destruction of the parts that it invades. The progress of the sore varies greatly in its rapidity. In some cases it advances slowly and irregu- larly, heahng' at one part while spreading at another ; thus forming the serpiginous sore. In other cases the advance is extremely rapid. In men the whole thickness of the penis may be destroyed for some distance, and in women the recto-vaginal septum may be perforated. Between these forms every variety may be met with. Wallace has divided phagedgenic sores into three varieties : those ivithout slough, those ivith ivhite slough, and those with black slough. This classification appears to me to be a useful and practical one. The phagedcBuic chmicre without slough is a truly eroding ulcer, spreading with sharply-cut edges, attended with slight inflammation, and with moderate activity of progress ; it is commonly observed about the fr^num and under part of the glans, and very frequently hollows out and destroys the organ in this situation to a considerable extent. When reaching the skin, it often assumes the serpiginous form. In the phagedcmic chancre ivith ivhite slough, we find an irregular eroding ulcer, with a thin margin of white slough situated at the jun(;tion of the dead and living structures ; that which covers the surface of the sore having usually become darkened by exposure to air, to dressings, and to secretions. The phagedcenic chancre ivith black slough dif^evs but little from the last, except in the colour of the slough, which may be in a great measure accidental, and in its tendency to somewhat rapid extension. Phagedgenic sores are most commonly met with in persons suflering from debihty from want of food, or after exhausting diseases, and in scrofulous subjects. Chronic Bright's disease and chronic alcoholism may also be mentioned as predisposing causes. Chancres are also very apt to assume this form amongst troops exhausted by the hardships of a campaign. Phagedsenic sores when spreading rapidly are often accompanied by much pain and con- stitutional disturbance. Situation.—As simple chancres almost invariably result from connexion with persons suffering from sores of similar nature, they commonly occur on the genital organs. Berkeley Hill states that 99 per cent, are in this situation. Accidental inoculations on the fingers of medical men or on the face are extremely rare, in fact almost unknown. On the genital organs in the male they may be met with in various situations. They are by far most commonly seated in the angle formed between the glans and the prepuce ; the situation next in order of frequency is the orifice or the inner surface of the prepuce, next the freenum, then the glans, more rarely the orifice of the urethra in some cases extending a short way down the canal, and lastly the skin of the body of the penis. Those about the frt^num are often sloughy and irritable, have a great tendency to perforate or destroy this membrane, and are more frequently followed by hasmorrhage or bubo than any of the other varieties of the disease.