CLINICAL HISTORY OF CARCINOMA. 1051 cancer of the great intestine have shown distinct evidence of their origin in being composed of a structure resembling in appearance the crypts of Lieber- kiihn. That the cells may pass along the lymphatics is sometimes shown by finding lymphatic vessels distended with nodules of cancerous growth. It is difficult to imagine juice or granular debris which could cause the develop- ment of glandular epitheUum in bone or columnar epithelium in the liver. The fact that the secondary growths do not invariably arise directly in the course of the lymph or blood-stream—as for instance when secondary tumours are found in the liver or bones and not in the lung—may be explained by supposing that the transplanted cells do not grow with equal facility in all structures. The experiments of transplantation of one kind of tissue into another, as of periosteum into the subcutaneous tissue, have shown that although it may grow for a time, it eventually perishes and is absorbed. This power shown by a tissue of resisting the growth of a foreign structure within it is called by Cohnheim the physiological power of resistance of the tissues. Cohnheim therefore assumes that in cancerous subjects this resisting power is diminished, possibly in consequence of the poisoning of the system from the primary growth, or as a part of some constitutional condition which pre- disposed to the development of the original tumour, and that this plays as important a part in the development of secondary growths as the transplanta- tion of cells. Against the theory that the secondary growths are entirely the result of some constitutional condition which gives rise also to the primary growth it may be urged that, if this were the case, the secondary tumours would appear in the favourite seats of the primary growth, and that each tissue should produce the form of cancer natural to itself, which, as we have seen, is the reverse of that which really occurs. Some forms of cancer show a much greater pow'er of reproduction than others. Thus glandular cancers recur rapidly throughout the body, while squamous carcinoma seldom infects beyond the nearest lymphatic glands. Whatever may be the exact mode of formation of the secondary growths, the balance of evidence may be said to be greatly in favour of some form of the transplantation theory, and therefore we may hope that, if the tumour could be removed sufficiently early, dissemination of the disease might be prevented. The theories here put forward with regard to cancer apply equally to the malignant sarcomata. General Clinical History of Carcinoma.—All forms of cancer present numerous points of resembance in their progress. When once formed, the tumour continues progressively to increase in size, with a degree of rapidity, and to an extent, that vary according to its kind. Its gro^wth is usually accompanied by pain, varying with the situation of the tumour and its variety. When the tumour has reached a certain size, the process of decay commences in the central parts, while growth continues at the circumference. The mass softens at some point, the skin covering which becomes duskily inflamed and ulcerated, and an irregular sloughy aperture forms, through which the debris of the mass are eliminated in an ichorous or sanious flui^d, having often the peculiar foetid smell usually accompanying the putrefaction of epithelium. The ulcer then rather rapidly increases, with raised and everted edges, a hard and knobby, or soft and fnngating surface, and the discharge of a dark fluid, often attended with haemorrhage, and occasionally with sloughing of portions of the mass at an early period. The pain in the tumour usually