456 ARREST OF ARTERIAL HAEMORRHAGE. pelas, or pyjemia. In other cases again, after a few warnings, the blood may burst out in a gushing stream that quickly destroys life. The opportunities which I have had of examining the state of the vessels m several cases of fatal secondary hemorrhage, lead me fully to concur with Guthrie and Porter, that when' hjemorrhage occurs from an artery ligatured in its continuity, ths blood in the great majority of instances comes from the distal and not from the ^rroximal side of th£ ivound. The greater tendency m the distal end of the vessel to bleed, appears to arise partly from the less perfect occlusion of this portion of the artery, and partly from its greater liability to slough, in consequence of the ligature interrupting its supply of blood through the vasa vasorum. It is no objection to this opinion that the haemorrhage^ is often arterial ; for, though it is true that the blood which is carried to the distal end is, for the first few days after the application of a ligature, of a venous hue, yet, after the collateral circulation is freely established, it assumes a more scarlet tint, and at last becomes completely arterial. Period at which it occurs.—Secondary haemorrhage may occur at any time from twenty-four hours after the operation to the closure of the wound. When the separaUe ligature was used, it was particularly apt to occur about the period of the separation of the ligature,' as the result of any of the causes already specified which interfere with the formation of the internal coagulum, or that occasion ulceration and sloughing of the coats of the vessel. At a later period it might also arise when the wound remained open, as the result of the presence of a slough where the noose of the ligature had lain, or from insufficient drainage of the suppurating track left by the ligature. In St. Thomas's Hospital is a preparation of a carotid artery, from which secondary hsemorrhage took place in the tenth week after ligature ; and South mentions a case of ligature of the subclavian in which the thread separated on the twenty-seventh day, the fatal hgemorrhage occurring in the thirteenth week. When an alsorhahle ligature is used, secondary haemorrhage may very rarely occur on the third or fourth day, from premature softening of imperfectly prepared catgut, if that material be emjjloyed. Should the ligature be septic, or become so by contamination from the wound, it may behave exactly as the old separable ligature, and secondary haemorrhage result from similar causes and at similar periods. Prevention of Secondary Haemorrhage.—In all cases in which a large artery has been wounded, or tied in its continuity, care should of course be taken to prevent this accident, if possible, by keeping the patient perfectly quiet, avoiding undue stimulation, and keeping the bowels open. A patient once nearly died in University College Hospital from secondary haemorrhage which commenced while she was straining violently at stool. When there is marked arterial tension with a full and rapid pulse it may sometimes be advis- able to have recourse to venesection if from the state of the wound there is any special reason to fear secondary hgemorrhage. Of all means of avoiding this accident, however, the prevention of septic processes in the wound is by far the most important. Secondary haemorrhage may be said never to occur in a wound healing healthily without suppuration. Should suppuration occur and