273 CAUSES OF ULCERATION. tissues, or, in other words, their degree of vitality. Consequently, the causes of ulceration, like those of inflammation in general, are divided into Pre- disposing, or those which render the tissues liable to suffer severely from injurious influences by impairing their vitality; and Exciting, or, in other words, the injurious influences themselves. Predisposing Causes.—Everything that acts as a predisposing cause of inflammation is also a predisposing cause of ulceration (see p. 172), and the following may be mentioned as amongst the most important. They are chiefly conditions that interfere in some Avay with the nutrition of a part. A feeble circulation, such as often exists in the lower limbs, in the alee of the nose, and in newly formed or recently cicatrised tissues, predisposes to the formation of ulcers. As age advances, nutrition becomes ■ impaired and the circulation less active, and slight causes suffice to lead to disintegration of the structure of a part. Hence we commonly see ulcers of the legs in elderly people, more par- ticularly amongst the poorer classes, arising from slight irritation or pressure. Parts cut off from connection with a healthy nerve-centre ulcerate readily, as the nates in paraplegia. Tissues that have been passively congested for a long time are apt to inflame under the influence of some trifling exciting cause, and to run rapidly into ulceration. This usually commences in the centre of the part, where the nutrition is lowest; here a small sore forms, which exudes thin unhealthy pus, and rapidly extends. So long as the sore is inflamed, it continues to spread, and repair cannot take place. In some cases in which, from the above causes, the vitality has been greatly lowered, the exciting cause which is sufficient to give rise to ulceration may be so slight as to escape detection. This is especially marked in scrofula, scurvy, and syphilis. In many forms of tuberculous and syphilitic ulceration the process resembles in many respects that of malignant ulceration—the chronic inflammatory products first form- ing a solid mass of very slow growth, almost like a tumour, which ultimately degenerates and softens in the centre, and is discharged superficially, leaving a raw surface, which slowly spreads by ulceration. These form a connecting hnk between simple inflammatory ulceration and ulceration from malio-nan't growths. ^ Exciting Causes.—The direct exciting causes of ulceration act chiefly on the skin and mucous membranes, and are very various in character :— _ 1. The most rapidly spreading forms of ulceration arise from specific infec- tive poisons, as in phagedaenic ulcers, hospital gangrene, soft chancre, the sore throat of scarlet fever, and in many sypliilitic ulcerations. Most of these, at the same time, cause acute inflammation, extending to some distance beyond the area in which destruction of the tissues is visibly taking place. In such cases the action of the irritant may be so acute, and the destruction of the tissues so rapid, that the migratory cells may not have completely displaced the original structures before disintegration occurs. Microscopic shreds of the dead tissues are then to be found in the pus, which contains fewer o-enuine pus-cells and assumes often the form of a dirty brownish fluid, discoloured by the broken-up red corpuscles from the disintegrating layer of tissue. When the n-ritant is more potent still, and penetrates into the surrounding parts destroy- ing them rapidly before any extensive migration has had time to take place layers of disorganised tissue constituting "sloughs" are formed, which com- pletely cover the sui-face, and the discharge may be merely serous fluid, scarcely VOL. I. T