WOUNDS OF THE SPINAL CORD: SYMPTOMS. 803 few days the vessels gradually recover their tone, and the congestion becomes less marked. The condition of the reflexes in the parts below the injury is a point of great interest. It is universally agreed that during the period of shock the superficial and deep reflexes are completely abolished. It has usually been supposed that after the period of shock has passed, the reflexes return and become exaggerated. The matter has, however, recently been brought forward by Bastian and Bowlby in separate communications read before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society. Bastian finds that in cases of complete transverse destruction of the cord by disease, the tendon reflexes are permanently abolished. Bowlby has investigated the subject in numerous cases of transverse lesion of the cord by injury; he finds that the deep reflexes do not return, whilst the condition of the superficial reflexes varies, being in some instances permanently abolished and in others returning in u day or a few weeks. The conclusion drawn from these observations is that permanent abolition of the tendon reflexes is evidence that the trans- verse lesion is complete, and that return of these reflexes in an exaggerated degree proves that the lesion is only partial. Bastian suggests that the exaggeration of the reflexes in partial transverse lesions is the result of the action of the cerebellum unrestrained by cerebral influence, and not, as has generally been supposed, of degenerative changes in the motor tracts below the injury. After a time visible diminution takes place in the nutritive activity of the limbs, the circulation becoming feeble, with a tendency to venous stagnation. The muscles waste to a certain extent, the skin assumes a dirty, cadaverous hue, and the cuticle usually exfoliates in branny flakes. 80 long, however, as the parts are in connection with a healthy portion of the spinal cord, the graver trophic lesions, such as acute bed-sore, do not manifest themselves. Bed-sores, no doubt, commonly occur in these cases, but they are due to the irritating effects of the urine and fajces involuntarily passed by the patient, together with his want of mobility, and can usually be prevented by skilful nursing. In open wounds of the spinal cord, such as result from gunshot injuries or from stabs, the patient is exposed to the dangers of septic meningitis and myelitis. These complications are commonly fatal. They are charac- terised by high temperature with pain in the back, and sometimes spasm or rigidity of the muscles of the trunk and limbs. The mischief may extend upwards to the base of the brain, and cerebral symptoms may then manifest themselves before death. Inflammatory softening of the cord in the neicdi- bourhood of the wound is indicated by the paralysis extending upwards Myelitis following the injury is very commonly complicated by the formation of acute bed-sores, which are rapidly fatal. This is due to the parts no lonc-er being in connection with a healthy nerve-centre. The general symptoms of paralysis following injury present important modifications, accordmg to the height at which the cord is divided. 1. Injuries in the Lumbar and Lower Dorsal Region.—The cord ter- minates at the lower border of the first lumbar vetebra, consequently injuries below that point will affect only the spinal nerves formino- the cauda equina All the nerves entering into the lumbar and sacral plexuses arise trom Ifhe part of the cord below the lower border of the eleventh dorsal vertebra. Injuries in this region consequently often cause complete paralysis of all the parts supplied from both the sacral and the lumbar plexuses ; some- 3 F 2