TUMO URS. I026 Ivory Exostoses.—These tumours form flat rounded elevations, usually seated on the bones of the skull or face. They are covered by a fibrous membrane and are of extreme hardness. Occasionally they are multiple and grow to a considerable size, and when seated on the facial bones distort the features horribly, and at last after years of suffering possibly cause death by pressure on the brain. e. Myxoma. Mucous Tumour.—These tumours are classed by some writers under sarcomata, as the tissue of ^Yhich they are composed closely resembles the rudimentary fat of the foetus. In the adult, the vitreous body of the eye is the only part in which mucous tissue is normally found. Many tumours formerly described as colloid cancer belong to this class. Myxomata usually form round, oval, or lobulated masses, distinctly surrounded by a loose capsule of connective tissue. They are tense, elastic, and gelatinous, frequently giving rise to a feeling of fluctuation so distinct as to lead to their being mistaken lor cysts. They are usually of slow growth. On section they Fig. 367.—Myxoma, from a large tumour in tlie skin of the back (188 diam.). It will be noticed that even the round cells are c.on- nected with those which are more branched. Fig. 3t)S.—Mucous Polypus of Nose (188 diani.). The roimd cells vary in size and are distinct from the branched ones. The branched cells are very irregular, and the matrix somewhat fibrous. are found to be of a delicate pink colour, sometimes stained by hsemorrhages, or they may exhibit a uniform yellowish tint. The most marked pecuharity they present on section is in the fluid which flows from the cut surface. This is abundant, glairy, and tenacious, having the appearance of thick gum-water. On chemical examination it is found to contain mucin ; microscopic examina- tion shows (Fig. 367) in the purest forms of myxoma a beautiful network composed of large stellate or branched cells, the processes of which freely com- municate with one another. These cells are imbedded in an almost homo- o-eneous intercellular substance, in which vessels can be clearly seen to ramify, it is seldom, however, that this structure is found so pure as this. In addition to the stellate cells, numerous small round cells (Fig. 368) are usually present, and the intercellular substance is in most cases traversed by delicate bundles ol" fibrous tissue, sometimes containing yellow elastic fibres. The stellate cells may be smaller in some cases than in others. The peculiar feature of the o-rowth is the mucous intercellular substance, and without this being present no tumour should be called a myxoma. Frequently, tissue agreeing in all respects with that of a pure myxoma is found mixed with that of sarcoma.