30 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. some seconds longer. This accident is more likely to occur in individuals who are depressed either by mental emotion or by physical debility, and it is not unfrequently connected with fatty heart. Death from syncope under chloroform may arise in four ways, 1. After very prolonged and severe operations, especially if'associated with loss of blood, the heart's action may become.gradually more and more feeble, and finally cease altogether. It is impossible in such cases to say how much is due to the chloroform and how much to the shock of the operation. 2. If the chloroform vapour be administered in too concentrated a form, it is probable that it may cause death by paralysing the cardiac centre. 3. In some rare cases death has occurred suddenly at the very commencement of the administration, before a sufficient quantity could have been absorbed to have any direct influence on the central nervous system. In these cases death is believed to be due to reflex inhibition of the heart through the vagus, the afferent impulse being developed by the irritating action of a very concentrated vapour of chloroform on the mucous membrane of the larynx, trachea and bronchi which is supplied by the sensory branches of the pneumogastric nerve. Death in these cases is due to shock. This is a very rare accident, and is probably dependent on some idiosyncrasy in the patient. 4. Death has been known to occur from reflex inhibition of the heart, owing to an in- sufficient dose of the anaesthetic having been given and the patient being still conscious of the pain. In these cases death might have been prevented by a more thorough administration of the anaesthetic. If there is reason to fear syncope on account of the feeble state of the patient, a small quantity of brandy or ammonia may be given before com- mencing the inhalation. It has been suggested that death from reflex cardiac inhibition might be prevented by the subcutaneous injection of a dose of about -g-V grain or less of atropine, which is known to abolish temporarily the inhibitory function of the vagus. The accident is, however, so rare that few Surgeons would be found willing to give every patient a large dose of atropine before venturing to administer chloroform. It is best avoided by careful administration of the anaesthetic. The proportion of chloroform vapour to air should at first be very small and should be gradually increased. This is done by varying the distance of the lint or towel from the patient's face. Should there be coughing or repeated acts of swallowing Avith the first few inspirations, showing irritation of the mucous membrane of the larynx and trachea, the chloroform must at once be removed to some distance from the face and again gradually approximated. During the whole administration the pulse and respiration should both be carefully watched. To direct attention to one only is a mistake, for, though in the vast majority of cases, the breathing will give the first indication of danger, yet we must not forget that chloroform is a cardiac depressant and in a pro- longed operation may aid in inducing cardiac failure. It is the auEesthetist's duty to watch the state of the patient carefully and to warn the surgeon should he think it dangerous to continue an operation which can be abandoned or quickly brought to an end. A few rare cases have been recorded in which, owing to an idiosyncrasy on the part of the patient, no amount of chloroform produced any anaesthetic effect. Alcohol, Chloroform, and Ether, or, as it has been called, " the A. C. E. mixture," consisting of alcohol 1, chloroform 2, and ether 3 parts, is