928 INFECTIVE DISEASES OF WOUNDS. ' accompanied by the evolution of gas and offensive decomposition. There is constitutional disturbance of the type of septic poisoning, but there is no evidence of a general specific infection of the blood. It is associated with the presence of rod-shaped organisms, but is not loiown to be contagious. d. Phlegmonous Erysipelas.—An acute rapidly spreading inflammation of the subcutaneous areolar tissue, secondarily affecting- the skin. It is accompanied by very abundant exudation, and the gangrene that complicates it seems to be due chiefly to the tension caused by this. So fkr as is known it is not accompanied by any specific infection of the system, and its contagious- ness is doubtful. It is associated with the presence of micrococci in chains (streptococcus). e. Cutaneous Erysipelas.—An acute infective disease characterized by a superficial inflammation spreading in the skin from the wound, and by a general febrile disturbance of a specific character. It is supposed by some that the poison infects the whole system as well as the local seat of inflamma- tion, but this is doubtful. It is associated with the presence of micrococci in the affected skin, and according to some observers, also in the blood. 2. General Infective Processes. a. Septic Infection.—An acute general infective process, rapidly termina- ting in death without the development of secondary centres of inflammation. The poison infects the whole system and increases in it, the fatal result being apparently directly due to alteration in the blood consequent upon the develop- ment of the virus in it. The local affection may be insignificant. The disease is rare in man. In animals it is easily induced experimentally, and in them it is always found to be associated with a definite organism in the blood, differing in different species. It is most intensely contagious. By many writers it is spoken of as septiccemia, its name being derived from the fact that in animals it is capable of being caused by the injection of small doses of putrid matter under the skin. The term sejjtic infection is here used to distinguish it from septic poisoning caused by the chemical products of putrefaction, which by many writers is also spoken of as " septicsemia." I. Pyaemia.—A general infective process, almost invariably starting from a wound which has reached the stage of suppuration ; hence its name. It is characterized by the formation of secondary centres of inflammation and suppuration disseminated throughout the body. It is associated with the presence of micrococci in the blood and in the secondary centres of inflamma- tion. It is believed to be contagious. It presents several varieties, which will be described, when treating of the disease. In actual practice it will be found that the distinction between these various affections is not always clearly defined, and this has given rise to the view that some of them at least are merely modifications of one disease. This apparent confusion may, however, be equally well explained by the co-existence of more than one form in the same case. Thus a patient may suffer from phlegmonous erysipelas with sloughing of the subcutaneous areolar tissue; decomposition of the sloughs may follow and give rise to septic poisoning, and, finally, death may take place from pysemia. c. Anthrax, Glanders, Hydrophobia, and Tetanus.—General infective diseases, the result of the presence in the body of a specific virus usually obtaining entrance in a wound. The three first-mentioned diseases have