VENEREAL DISEASES. 1142 drug be pushed further, either intentionally or accidentally, the swelling in- creases ; the gums become soft and spongy, and overhang the teeth ; the tongue swells, so as to show the impression of the teeth along its sides, and it becomes covered with a thick fur. The breath is offensive, and there is an increased flow of saliva, and a metallic taste in the mouth. This con- dition of " mercurial salivation " was in former times regarded as the proper effect to be obtained by the administration of the drug. In the present day ib is regarded as an evil to be carefully avoided. If the drug be pushed still further, the teeth may be loosened, and fall out ; the gums and tongue may become ulcerated, aud acute inflammation may take place in the salivary glands. Ulceration of the inner surface of the cheek opposite the molar teeth may occur. At the same time there may be consideralale febrile disturbance. The effects produced by mercury vary greatly in diflereiit individuals, a dose which would salivate one patient producing no effect on another. In the administration it is necessary, therefore, in all cases, to begin with a small quantity Avhich may be gradually increased till the patient's dose is ascertained. Before beginning the treatment it is very advisable that all tartar should be scaled from the teeth. When symptoms of salivation set in, the mercury must immediately be discontinued. A brisk saline purge may be given, and the mouth must be washed with a strong alum or chlorate of potash gargle (10 to 15 grs. to the ounce of water). Ten to twenty grains of chlorate of potash with five minims of tincture of belladonna may be given internally three times daily. In the treatment of syphilis the effect upon the primary sore is often a useful guide in the administration of mercury. If, under the influence of a certain dose, the sore rapidly assumes a healthy appearance and begins to heal, it may be taken for granted that that quantity is sufficient to act bene- ficially on the patient, and it may be adhered to during the whole course, unless special circumstances require an increase. It is better in all cases to be guided rather by the eftect on the disease than by the effect on the gums. Swollen gums show that the limit of safety has been reached; if the symptoms are relieved without affecting the mouth, so much the better. There is no evi- dence that any tolerance of the drug is acquired by its prolonged administration. 4. The effects of mercury in the different stages of si/philis.—The effect of the drug on the primary sore is almost invariably very distinctly marked. The hardness round the sore becomes less intense and less sharply defined. The smooth pale surface becomes of a healthy red colour, granulations spring up, often of a florid tint, and bleeding readily; the thin serous discharge, characteristic of the typical hard sore, is replaced by pus, and by the end of a week or ten days the indurated chancre has assumed the appearance of a healthy granulating sore. As these changes take place, the sore usually becomes more tender and painful, and the patient may become alarmed at what to him seems a change for the worse. The induration at the base of the sore is often not completely absorbed for many weeks after the surface has been covered by new epithelium. ►Simultaneously with the softening of the induration, the glands in the groin become smaller, but they do not, as a rule, reach their normal size and consistence till long after the sore is healed. The influence of mercury is not, in all cases, so unmistakeable in the second- ary stage; but, in most cases, it is evident enough. The rashes fade or diminish in abundance, or may even be entirely prevented, and the sore throat subsides under the influence of the drug. It may be necessary, however, to push the