683 PROXIMAL PHALANX OF THUMB. by so short a bone. Luxation of the metacarpal bone of the thumb has, however, been observed to take place forwards as well as hacJuvards, the latter being the more common. The Reduction is in general easy, extension being made from the thumb by means of a piece of tape applied round the first phalanx. Next to the metacarpal bone of the thumb, those of the Index and Middle Fingers are most liable to dislocation backwards : in some cases complete, in others incomplete. I know of no recorded case in which all the metacarpal bones have been dislocated from the carpus. The annexed engraving (Fig. 262) from a cast in University College Museum, was taken from a patient m the Hospital, in whom I beheve that this accident must have occurred ; the hand being thrown forwards and shortened, and the carpal bones forming a FiK- "^OS.—Dislocation of tlie Metafarpus, forwards, from the Carpus. Fig. —Dislocation, back- wards, of the Proximal Phalanx of the Thumb. rounded and convex prominence on the dorsum of the metacarpus. The convex appearance of this corresponds with the outline of the carpal bones, and differs so very remarkably from the concave aspect of the lower end of the radius and ulna, as seen in the radio-carpal dislocation (Fig. 2(51), that I think there can be little doubt as to the nature of the inj ury. The 2Veatme?it of such cases will be the same as that for ordinary dislocations of the carpal boues; splints of sufficient length to take in the hand being apphed, after reduction, in order to maintain the parts in position. Dislocations of the Metacarpo-Phalangeal Articulations are by no means of common occurrence. They are usually produced by falls on the hand, and are met with at all ages ; most commonly in the young adult, but some- times at an earlier age. I have seen this accident in a child four years old. Most frequently the Proximal Phalanx of the Thumb is the bone that is dislocated, being thrown backwards on the metacarpal bone (Fig. 263) in such a way that the articular surface of the phalanx rests upon the back of the metacarpal bone immediately above its head (Fig. 264). The signs of the accident are sufficiently evident. In the normal state of the hand, the metacarpo-