SPECIAL FRACTURES. which the neck of the bone is broken transversely, so that the head is carried torwards with the finger, and thus simulates closely a dislocation of the fingers towards the palmar surface. A comparison of the line of the bent knuckles, together with crepitus on rotation, will determine the nature of the injury. The Ireatment of a fracture of the metacarpal bone of the thumb is best carried out by the apphcation of a narrow plaster of Paris bandage as a spica to the thumb and wrist. In the case of the others a leather or gutta-percha gauntlet may often suffice, but in some instances the deformity is best reduced by the use of an anterior wooden splint or by bandaging the fingers over a roller bandage or ball-shaped pad placed in the palm. In compound fracture of these bones, every elfort should be made to save the part; if removal become necessary, it should be as limited in extent as possible (p. 100). Period of Union.—A fracture of one of the bones of the hand is firmly united by the end of the third week, when splints will no longer be required. FRACTUEES OF THE PELVIS AND THE LOWER EXTREMITY. Fractuees of the Pelvis.—The pelvic bones can be broken only by great and direct violence. The complete circle which they form, their solidity and the strength of their articulations, enable them to resist all indirect causes of fracture. In civil life these bones are usually broken by crushes of the body, as between a cart and a wall, by falls of rock in mining accidents, or by the crushing force of railway collisions. _ When broken, the pelvis usually gives way at the rami of the pubes and ischium m front, and across the ilium, at or near the sacro-iliac synchondrosis behind, usually on the side opposite to that of the fracture in front (Fig. 206) The pubes may be, but rarely is, broken across its body, and the symphysis is seldom torn through. When one side of the pelvis is thus broken away from the rest of the bone, it and the attached lower extremity are necessarily con- nected with the rest of the body only by the soft parts that unite the pelvis to the spinal column and trunk. These are consequently liable to severe stretch- ing, laceration, and other injury. In some cases, portions of the crest of the ihum only are detached. In others, the rami in front may be broken without corresponding posterior fracture. Such injuries can, however, arise only from gunshot wounds or similar forms of direct violence. When the fracture results from a crush, double fracture, back and front, must necessarily occur. The danger in simple fracture of the pelvis arises from the injury to the important soft parts contained within it. Muscles, nerves, and blood-vessels may be stretched or torn. The bladder may be wounded by a spiculum of bone from the pubes or ischium ; or the urethra may be torn, perhaps com- pletely across, from the same cause. When the urethra is torn, a slight oozino- of blood will usually be observed at its orifice, with possibly much deep ecchymosis of the perinseum. The nature of the injury is usually apparent from the great degree of direct violence that has been inflicted upon the part ; from the pain that the patient experiences in moving or in coughing ; from the inability to stand in consequence of a feeling as if the body were falling to pieces ; and from'the ready mobility of the part and crepitus on seizing the brim of the pelvis on each side and moving it to and fro, or on rotating the thigh of the aflected