837 SCALDS OF MOUTH AND GLOTTIS. arrested, unless it by chance take the glottis by surprise, and pass through it at once in the same way that it has entered it, without touching its sides. If it be arrested by the spasm in the glottis it is inevitably drawn down into the trachea again by the deep inspiration that follows the relaxation of the spasm. If there be a second breathing aperture, though the larynx is equally irritated by the foreign body, yet this dyspnoea cannot occur, respiration being carried on uninterruptedly by one opening whilst the foreign body escapes through the other ; and thus, in these circumstances, it may pass through the glottis with but httle inconvenience. In performing tracheotomy for a foreign body in the air passages, the opening must be made freely ; no tube must be introduced, but the edges of the wound must be kept open by blunt hooks, made of bent wire, and secured behind the neck by a piece of tape. In some cases, the foreign body is expelled at once after the trachea has been opened ; in others, not until some hours, days, or even weeks, have elapsed. Thus, in Houston's case, a piece of stick was not coughed up until ninety-seven days after the operation ; and in Brodie's case, in which the celebrated engineer, Brunei, was the patient, sixteen days elapsed before the half-sovereign came away. The expulsion has in some instances been facilitated by inverting the patient, shaking him, or striking him on the back. In cases in which the foreign body has not readily been expelled, forceps and other instruments have been introduced through the wound to extract it. But, although in many instances this has succeeded, these proceedings should not be lightly undertaken. It is better always to wait some time, as in a large number of successful cases expulsion has not taken place spontaneously till more than twenty-four hours after the operation. If the body does not come up spon- taneously by the end of the second day, the Surgeon is not justified in further delay, as the mischief set up in the lung may soon become irreparable. The patient must be put fully under an ansesthetic, and even then the intro- duction of the instrument will cause a violent spasmodic cough. If the nature of the foreign body be known, the instrument must be adapted to it. If it be of metal, glass, or china, its position can first be detected by means of a probe. If it be of the form most easily to be seized with forceps. Gross's tracheal forceps, or Durham's flexible forceps may be used. It is difficult, however, in using forceps to avoid passing the blades down two separate bronchial tubes and thus seizing the septum between them. A loop of stiff wire, bent at its extremity to an angle so that it can be directed into either bronchus, will be found very useful in dislodging a round body impacted in a bronchus. In this way a plum-stone was easily dislodged and removed in a case which occurred in University College Hospital some years ago, and the child rapidly recovered. During these operations the opening in^the trachea may be kept open, as suggested by Thomas Smith, by temporarily suturing together the edges of the tracheal and skin incisions. Should the attempt fad, the wound should be kept open by means of blunt hooks for a week or ten days longer, when perhaps the foreign body may be ejected. After its escape, the opening in the trachea must be allowed to close. Scalds of the Mouth, the Pharynx, and the Glottis, occasionally occur from attempts to swallow boiling water ; or these parts are scorched by the inhalation of hot air or flame. The scalding happens chiefly to the