2iABIES: FJiEVENTIVE TREATMENT. 377 would certainly occur if there were any crack or abrasion. The only preventive means that can be trusted are excision and caustics. _ Excision is no doubt the most effectual preventive treatment, but it is seldom practised. It should be freely performed, no half measures being had recourse to. It is better to remove too much of a comparatively unimportant tissue or part, than to allow the sufferer to run any risk of falling a victim to the fatal disease. In order to excise every part that has been touched by the tooth, the Surgeon should pass a probe to the bottom of the wound, and excise the whole by scooping out a conical piece of the tissues, takmg care to go beyond the furthest limit to which the probe is passed. If there be any doubt of the removal of the whole of the injured parts, a caustic should be applied. If the lip be bitten through, a portion may be cut out, and the wound brought together, as in hare-lip operations : if a finger be injured, it may be amputated. Caustics are much more commonly used. The introduction of a sharp- l)ointed stick of nitrate of silver into each tooth-mark was strongly recom- mended by Youatt, who had himself been bitten twenty times. Potassa fusa is also a most efficient caustic, but it is apt to extend its action farther than is intended. Liquid caustics poured into the hole left by the tooth have the advantage of penetrating very thoroughly into every part of the wound. Pure carbolic acid, or fuming nitric acid, may be used in this way. If the wound have already cicatrized, the bitten part may be excised at any time after the injury, provided the dog is known to have been mad, or to have become so afterwards : for it is not impossible that, in the cases in which the disease has occurred at a remote period, it has been dependent upon, or con- nected with, some peculiar action set up in the wound, which might possibly be averted by the removal of the cicatrix. Pasteur's Preventive Treatment.—In 1880 Pasteur commenced a series of researches into the nature of rabies, as the result of which he believes that he has discovered a means of rendering an animal incapable of developing the disease if inoculated with the virus, and that within certain limits of time he can, by the same treatment, prevent the occurrence of the disease, even after inoculation of the virus on an unprotected animal. He stcirted with the idea that it might be possible so to attenuate the virus that its inoculation might induce a modified form of the disease, free from danger to life, but protecting the animal from a subsequent attack. In this he was not successful, and his present mode of treatment, although conferring immunity, produces no appreciable disturbance of health. In this it differs entirely from vaccination. It is impossible to give here more than the briefest summary of Pasteur's work. The first definite result arrived at Avas the fact that the virus is constantly present in the central nervous system of rabid dogs, and can thus be obtained free from contamination by the septic organisms always present in the saliva. By crushing up portions of the cord in sterilized broth a suitable material was obtained for inoculation, and it was found that by trephining an animal and injecting the virulent fluid beneath the arachnoid, rabies can be induced with perfect certainty, and that the incubative period is reduced to from six to ten days. Pasteur next found that by inoculating a series of monkeys, using the cord of the first for the second and so on, a gradual attenuation of the virus takes place, until its virulence disappears entirely. By inoculating the attenuated virus he succeeded in producing immunity hi dogs. Further observations showed that by inoculating a series