256 SUPPURATION AND ABSCESS. abundant that sometimes the mass is mistaken for a solid tumour. Tn bone, the enclosin£)- tissue is composed of very dense osseous tissue. Pomtmg becomes impossible, and sach an abscess may exist for an mdefinite time. This form of abscess is met with in its most typical form in the mamma. One of the most acute forms of suppuration met with, leading very rapidly to the formation of large abscesses, is the disease known as Acute Necrosis of Bone. Here the pus forms under the periosteum, stripping it extensively from the bone and finally perforates it, extending to the superficial tissues. Ihe staphylococcus aureus or albus is constantly present as the cause of the disease. Now in this disease we not uncommonly get examples of abortion of the acute process The severe constitutional and local symptoms subside, the process becomes chronic, and it may not be for some weeks that an abscess reaches the surface at the bottom of which dead bone is found, surrounded by a large mass of newly-formed osseous tissue. It has not yet been proved that this is due to death of the micro-organism, either from the triumph of the living tissues over the invading micrococcus or from the development of some chemical substance fatal to it, but it is the probable cause of the mitigation of the symptoms. In one such case examined in University College Hospital no oro-anisms could be cultivated on potatoes. Abscess formation may also be more or less chronic owing to the feeble virulence of the organism causing the suppuration. The micrococcus pyogenes tenuis has been found only in abscesses running a subacute course. The constitutional symptoms which have already been described (p. 249) correspond in severity to the acuteness of the process. Situation, Size, &c.—Abscesses are met with in all regioJis of the body, but more especially where the areolar tissue is abundant and the lymphatic glands are numerous. They may occur at any period of life, from the earliest infancy to old ao-e. I have opened a very large abscess in the axilla of a child about a fortnight old. Their size varies fi'om that of a pin's point to tliat of a tumour containing a pint or more of pus. The Pressure effects of an abscess are often important. By pressure on the nerves of a part it may give rise to severe pain referred to the nerve and its terminal branches. In deep-seated chronic abscesses this is often a most important element in diagnosis, and from want of attention to it many cases of lumbar and psoas abscess are treated as lumbago or sciatica till the abscess makes itself evident to the most superficial observer. Large veins are often nressed upon and obliterated, but this is very rarely the case with arteries. Abscesses rarely perforate large vessels, even when they are in close contact with them. This accident will be described at the end of the chapter. Diagnosis.—The diagnosis of abscess, though usually easily made, at times requires close attention. The Surgeon beheves that an acute abscess is about to form when, perhaps after a rigor and some increase of the inflammatory fever, he finds the local signs characteristic of the formation of pus ; more especially •V throbbino- pain in the part, with softening of any induration that may have existed and oedema of the areolar tissue covering it. His suspicion is turned into certainty, and he knows that an abscess has formed, when, after the occur- rence of these symptoms, fluctuation can be felt. Fluctuation is the sensation felt by the Surgeon on placing both hands, or one or more fingers of each hand as the case may be, with moderate firmness upon the part in which the fluid is situated, and then increasing the pressure with each hand alternately.