DISLOCATIONS. 054 before the fracture will bs sufficiently fir-iily united to bear the traction requisite to reduce so old a dislocation; and then there will be a sjreat chance of rapture of the callus, and certainly extreme ditficulty in the reduction. It therefore appears to me much better, under all circumstances, to endeavour to reduce the dislocation at once, and afcerwards to treat the fracture in the usual way. In reducing a dislocation complicated with fracture of the shaft of the displaced bone, the fracture must first be put up very firmly indeed, with wooden splints completely encasing the limb. The patient must then be put fally under the influence of an anaesthetic, which is essential in these cases ; when the muscles are completely relaxed, the reduction may be effected in tiie usual way. If manipulation fails and extension becomes necessary, the extending means should be applied upon the splints, so that there may be no dragging upon the fracture. In this way I have reduced, without any difficulty, a dislocation of the head of the humerus into the axilla, complicated with comminuted fracture of the shaft of the bone, in a remarkably m'lscular man ; and about the same time I had under my care at the Hospital a case of dislocated elbow, with fracture of the shaft of the humerus, that was reduced with ease in the same way. The difficulty in reduction is necessarily increased by the proximity of the fracture to the dislocated joint, and when the epiphysis is broken oft' from the shaft and dislocated, the difiiculty may be great; but it is not insuperable. Some years since, I assisted H. Smith and Dunn in the reduction of a dislocation of the humerus with fracture of the surgical neck of the bone, the displaced head lying to the inner side of the (joracoid process. In this case the patient, a young man who had sustained the injury by a fall in an epileptic fit, was put under chloroform, and when he was fully aneesthetized the displaced head of the bone was easily replaced; the patient recovering with an excellent arm. When a Simple Fracture extends into the Articular End of the Bone, as in some dislocations about the elbow and ankle, there is no material increase in the danger of the case or in the difficulty of its management. In Compound Dislocation with Fracture of the Articular Ends, removal of splinters, and partial resection or amputation will be required, according to the seat and extent of injury. Spontaneous Dislocations may occur either suddenly or gradually, and may arise from a variety of causes. vSpontaneous dislocation, if the term can properly be applied to such cases, is often met with as the result of disease of the articulation. In all destructive inflmimcUion of joints, as in tuberculous disease or acute arthritis following a wound, the ligaments become softened, the cartilages are destroyed, and the bones entering into the articulation altered in shape by ulceration ; in these circumstances the articular surfaces readily become displaced under the influence of slight muscular action. To this class Volkmann has given the name of Dislocation from Destruction. In chronic rheumatic arthritis, especially of the smaller joints, and in the joint affections met with in locomotor ataxy, it sometimes happens that the articular surfaces are gradually forced out of their normal relations by the pressure of osseous outgrowths, springing from the bones close to the margin of the cartilages. These are classed by Volkmann as Dislocations from Deformity. In another form, which was specially studied and described by Stanley, the affection is due to a paralytic condition of the muscles surrounding the capsule. In these