98o SEPTICAEMIA AND PYjEMIA. <^Teat debility also sets in. The abdomen becomes tympanitic, diarrhoea or profuse sweats come on ; pneumonia or pleuritic effusions declare themselves ; delirium, from which the patient is easily roused, alternates with stupor ; and at last he sinks from exhaustion. Death takes place usually about the tenth or twelfth day ; though it may occur as early as the fourth, or the patient may linger on for six or seven weeks. PosT-MoRTEM Appearances.—The body is usually emaciated and rigor mortis is feebly marked. The skin is generally yellowish in tint, sometimes-- intensely jaundiced. Purpuric spots are occasionally noticed on the surface, especially in the lower extremities. Decomposition as a rule sets in early. Appearances at the Seat of Infection.—Any external wound is usuahy grey, sloughy, or dry, and the parts round it may be oedematous. If the wound be one implicating the bones, as an amputation, or an excision of a joint, it very frequently presents the appearances of septic or gangrenous osteomyelitis. The exposed end of the bone is bare, and the periosteum is loosened. If the shaft of a long bone has been implicated, the medullary canal contains gan- grenous fat mixed with offensive pus ; if the cancellous tissue has been opened up, the spaces are filled with a similar material. (See Osteomyelitis, Vol. II.) In'the bones of the skull the diploe may be found infiltrated with pus. The Veins leading from the wound are in some cases perfectly healthy : far more commonly, however, they are found to present marked evidences of disease. AVhile exposing the vein by dissection it will usually be noticed that the areolar tissue in its neighbourhood is infiltrated with inflammatory products for a considerable distance from the wound, and occasionally the vessel may be surrounded here and there by pus. When the vein is exposed, it is seen to be distended, being in parts dark purple, and in parts yellowish, as if filled with pus. On opening the vein its coats are found to be swollen and thickened, and its lumen filled with a tlu'orabus in various stages of softening and disintegra- tion. This thrombus may extend for a great distance, as fi-om the leg to the irroin, its extremity sometimes projecting into the main trunk into which the affected vein enters. The fragments of the softened thrombus may thus be carried on into th€ circulation as emboli, lodging in the lungs and giving rise to secondary abscesses. In some cases the source of the secondary mischief may be recognized by the state of the veins. Thus in cases of osteomyelitis, the'thrombosis of the main trunk may (jommence at the point at which the veins from the bone enter it. In a case in which a patient died of pyaemia after an amputation of the thigh in University (College Hospital, the veins leading from the stump were perfectly healthy, while those leading from a foul bed-sore were full of disintegrated clot. General Post-Mortem Appearances.—The Wood may be dark in colour and imperfectly coagulated, as in septicaemia, but in the vast majority of cases it presents no naked-eye abnormal appearance. The veins of distant parts are occasionally found to contain softening thrombi similar to those observed ab the seat of infection. In the 110 cases of pysemia collected by the Committee of the Pathological Society this condi- tion was observed in six. These cases are of great interest as indicating that the general infection of the blood may, in some cases at least, be an important factor in causing thrombosis at the original seat of infection. Secondary Centres of Inflammation occurred in the following order of frequenc3', in the 110 cases reported in the Transactions of the Pathological