EXCITING CAUSES OF CANCER. it occurs more frequently in some parts than in others. In the female it is most common in the mamma and uterus ; in the male, epithelioma of the lip, tongue and penis is the most common form of the disease. In the alimentary canal it is most common at the narrowest parts, Avhich presumably are most exposed to mechanical injury. Thus commencing at the mouth we find the common situations of cancer are, the lip, the tongue, the fauces, the oesopha- gus behind the cricoid cartilage, the cardiac orifice and the pylorus. Then follows the small intestine in which the contents are fluid, and the diameter almost uniform, and here cancer is extremely rare. It is less rare at the ileo- colic valve, and becomes common at the sigmoid flexure, which is the narrow^est part of the great gut and contains solid fasces. In the rectum it occurs usually where the gut is slightly narrowed as it passes through the recto-vesical fascia, and finally it is common at the anus. The form of cancer met with in all these places is dependent on the epithelium normal to the part, .is far as the cardiac orifice it is squamous, at the cardiac orifice it is usually one form of glandular cancer, at the pylorus and as far as the anus it is columnar, and at the anus it is again squamous. It has been observed that in those organs which have an intermittent functional activity, cancer is more frequent. Assuming it to be true that the development of carcinoma in a part may be determined by long continued irritation, it is by no means clear what share the irritation actually takes in causing the disease. Chronic irritation of a mucous or cutaneous surface, as well as of glandular organs, produces as one of its effects a proliferation of the epithelium of the part, and it is conceivable that under certain circumstances this proliferation may by gradual stages become an actual carcinomatous growth. There is, however, a gradually increasing belief that carcinoma is the result of some specific irritation of epithehum, probably by the growth of a parasitic micro-organism in it. If this be so, chronic irritation can no longer be looked upon as an exciting cause of cancer, but rather as a local predisposing cause ; the epithelial changes which the irritation occasions being not an early stage of cancer, but rather a precancerous coiicliUon, that is a condition rendering the part favourable to the development of carcinoma. It is impossil)le here to make more than very brief reference to the vast amount of investigation which has been carried out in recent years with the object of determining the essential cause of carcinoma. Many patholoo-ists believe that cancer is an infective disease, and that the tumour is the result of an abnormal growth of epithelium excited by the local action of a specific micro-parasite. In searching for evidence in support of this hypothesis three separate forms of investigation have been made : first, to determine the possibility of the experimental transmission of cancer from man to animals or from one animal to another ; secondly, to endeavour to obtain artificial cultivations of living organisms from freshly removed carcinomatous tumours ; and thirdly, to endeavour by various methods of preparation and staining to demonstrate the presence of parasitic bodies in the cells of the growth Ballance and Shattock, in this country, have endeavoured by a long series of most carefully conducted experiments to transmit carcinoma from the human subject to the lower animals. Their results in this direction have so far proved uniformly negative. They transplanted portions of freshly excised malignant tumours, mostly carcinoma of the breast, into the peritoneal cavity muscles and subcutaneous tissues of monkeys, dogs, rats and other animals'