6l2 SPECIAL FRACTURES. The Constitutional Disturbance in old people, though trifling at^ first, often eventually becomes considerable; and the injury frequently terminates fatally, from the supervention of hypostatic pneumonia, an asthenic state of system, or sloughing of the nates from confinement to bed. Hence this injury must ahvays be considered dangerous. Mode of Union.—The treatment of these fractures turns in great measure upon the view that is taken of their mode of union, and on the constitutional condition of the patient. In some cases no union occurs, but the head of the bone remains in the acetabulum, being hollowed into a smooth, hard, cup- shaped cavity, in which the neck, which has become rounded off and polished, plays as in a socket. In the great majority of cases, however, union takes place by fibrous tissue. This is owing to two causes :—first, that the fractured surfaces are not in apposition ; and secondly, that the supply of blood to the head of the bone through the vessels of the ligamentum teres is insulficient for the proper production of callus. In some cases, however, bouy union does take place. This can happen only when, in consequence of the cervical ligament being untorn, or the fracture being impacted, the surfaces are kept in apposition, and the supply of blood to the head of the bone is speedily augmented by that carried to it through the medium of the vascular tissue formed between the fragments in the process of repair. When bony union occurs the head of the femur will usually be found to be somewhat twisted round so that it looks towards the lesser trochanter, owing to the eversion of the lower fragment. Treatment.—As these fi-actures do not unite by bone unless the fragments be in good contact, it is useless to confine the patient to bed for any long period, if the signs, especially the amount of shortening, indicate considerable separation between the fragments, or if the patient be very aged and feeble. In these circumstances, lengthened confinement to bed most commonly proves fatal by the depressing influence which it exercises on the general health, causing hypostatic pneumonia or inducing bed-sores. It is therefore best to keep the patient in bed only for two or three weeks, until the limb has become somewhat less painful, and the tendency to muscular spasms, which is often very distressing, has passed away. The patient should be laid flat on his back, on a fracture-bed or a suitable couch properly provided with a pan for the reception of the excreta. This is most important, for if the urine and faeces be passed under the patient so as to wet the buttocks, bed-sores will iufallibly result. In fact the utmost attention to dryness and cleanliness is needed in order to prevent them. The knees should be bent at an angle of 45° over pillows and the legs tied together. At the end of from two to four weeks a leather splint should be fitted to the hip, and the patient should be allowed to get up upon crutches. There will be lameness dui-ing the remainder of life ; but, with the aid of a stick and a properly adjusted splint, but little inconvenience will be suffered. A most excellent mode of treatment is the application of a properly fitted and well-padded Thomas's hip-spUnt. (See Diseases of the Hip, Vol. II.) Until the splint is ready the patient must be kept in bed, either with the legs bent, as before described, or with a weight-extension apparatus to diminish shortening, and sandbags to steady the limb and prevent eversion. As !-oon as the splint is applied, if the patient be old and feeble, he may be got out of bed, and, if possible, may move about on crutches. If there is no fear