635 COMPOUND FRACTURE OF TIBIA. taiiily was not successful in some cases in which I practised it ; for although the tendon was exceedincrly tense, only temporary benefit resulted, the displace- ment returning under the "influence of the other muscles inserted into the toot. In these cases the bones may usually be brought into good position by flexing the thigh well upon the abdomen, and the leg upon the thigh, and then laying the limb on its outer side on a wooden leg-splint, provided with a proper foot- piece, and keeping it fixed in this position. In most cases the swing-cradle (Fig. 234) will be found a useful and very easy apparatus. In some fractures of the leg in the upper third, the lower end of the upper fragment projects considerably, and cannot be brought into proper position so long as the knee is kept bent; but if it be extended, so as to relax the extensors of the thigh, the bone is readily brought into good position. In fractures of the leg, as m all injuries of a similar kind, no one plan of treatment should be adopted ex- Fig. 234.—Salter's Swiiig-cradlc for Fractured Leg. clusively, but the means employed should be varied according to the pecuhari- ties of each case. In the management of fractures of the leg anywhere near the ankle the foot should be carefully kept as nearly as possible at right angles to the leg. If it be allowed to drop so that the toes point downwards, the stiffness that always follows fracture in this region, will fix it in that position for some time after the fracture is united, and until the false position is corrected by forcible flexion and rubbiug, the patient cannot use his leg for walking. Period of Union.—Tbe time at which all artificial support may be dis- pensed with is, when both bones are broken, 8 weeks ; if the tibia alone is fractured, 7 weeks ; if the fibula alone, G weeks. Complications of Simple Fracture of the Leg.—In addition* to the complications common to all fractures, those of the leg are occasionally attended with injury to the main vessels. The consequences of this accident, and its treatment, have already been discussed (see p. 547 et seq). Venous thrombosis occurs more commonly during the treatment of this fracture than in any other (see p. oaO). Compound Fractures of the Tibia are of more fi'equent occurrence than similar injuries of any other bone in the body. This is owing to the thin covering of soft parts over the anterior and inner aspect of the bone, and to