WOUND OF THE HEART. 867 of the wound, however, will necessarily influence the result more materially than its direction. Not only may a person live a considerable time after having- received a penetrating wound of the heart, but there are many cases on record in which life has been prolonged even though a foreign body was lodged in the cavities or substance of the organ. Thus Ferrus relates the case of a man who lived for twenty days with a skewer traversing the heart from side to side ; and E,oux that of a man Avho lived twenty-one days with a portion of a file, with which he had stabbed himself, in the wall of the left ventricle. Davis and Stewart found a piece of wood, three inches long, in the right ventricle of a boy, who lived five weeks after the accident ; Oarnochan relates a case in which the wounded man survived eleven days with a.bullet deeply lodged in the substance of the apex of the heart ; and Latour records the case of a soldier who lived for six years after being wounded by a musket-ball in the side, and in the right ventricle of whose heart the bullet was found lodged, lying against the septum. The part of the heart that has been injured may be determined by attention to the sit nation of the wound and the direction it takes, for the situation of the different cavities of the heart in relation to the superficial structures is constant. Thus, a stab below the fifth rib, about one inch to the sternal side of the nipple, and two inches below it, would wound the apex of the heart ; a stab through the second intercostal space close to the right side of the sternum would wound the most prominent part of the ascending aorta after passing through the lung. One through the third to the fifth intercostal spaces to the right of the sternum would wound the right auricle. The pulmonary artery would be reached by a thrust through the third rib on the left side at its junction with the sternum. The statistics collected by Fischer, Jamain, West, and others, show that the right ventricle is most commonly wounded. There are instances on record in which a ball has entered the chest and caused a laceration of the heart substance without penetrating the pericardium, which escaped in consequence of its firmness and fibrous character. Again, as has already been stated, the pericardium alone may be injured : Fischer has collected 51 such cases. The Symptoms of a wound of the heart, when immediately fatal, are as follows. The person struck springs up convulsively, or falls suddenly pros- trate ; sometimes with, sometimes without, a sudden sharp shriek. Death results from hajmorrhage, which will be profuse, the blood passing out beyond the pericardium, if the wound be large and that membrane be widely opened • or into the pericardium, preventing the action of the heart by compression if the wound be small. In either case, death is hastened by collapse arisino- from shock to the heart itself, and to the system at large from the wound of so important an organ. If the wound be small and death be not immediate, there are evidences of great shock in the intense depression of vital power, the pallid and anxious countenance, and the relaxation of the limbs. The action of the heart itself IS tumultuous, weak, and irregular; the pulse is scarcely perceptible • the breathing is extremely embarrassed. If the patient survive a few days 'these symptoms partially and intermittingly subside, and the ordinary si-us of pericarditis come on-frictiou, gradually disappearing more or less completely