148 LOCAL DLSTURBANCES AND INFLAMMATION. CHAPTEE IV. LOCAL DISTURBANCES OF CIRCULATION AND INFLAMMATION. The regulation of the local supply of blood to the various parts of the body is accomplished by the sraaller arteries, in which the muscular coat is highly developed. When contracted a small artery may completely exclude the blood from the area it supplies, but when fully dilated it admits blood enough to distend every capillary in connection with it. These variations are controlled by the vaso-motor nerves. That stimulation of the sympathetic nerves causes contraction of the muscular coats of the arteries to which they are distributed, and that division of those nerves causes dilatation, has long been known, and there is reason to believe that in addition to these vaso-constrictor nerves, vaso-dilator nerves also exist the stimulation of which causes a dilatation of the vessels to which they pass. All vaso-motor nerves are derived originally from centres in the cord and medulla. Yaso-motor centres are distributed throughout the whole length of the cord, from which fibres pass by the anterior roots either directly to the arteries or else by the rami communicantes to the sympathetic ganglia, and are then distributed to the vessels. The vaso- motor centres in the cord are brought into connection by means of fibres passing upwards in the lateral columns with a general vaso-motor centre in the upper part of the medulla. Stimulation of this centre causes a general contraction of the vessels throughout the body, and consequently an increase of resistance and an elevation of the blood-pressure ; paralysis of the centre causes an opposite effect. Cortical centres influencing the circulation have also been discovered in the motor area and in the gyrus fornicatus. The former of these, if stimu- lated, causes an effect on the "opposite side only, while the latter produces a general effect, probably through the general centre in the medulla. Lastly, it is believed that microscopic ganglia exist on the vessels themselves, for if a part be completely separated by division of its nerves from the centres, the vessels which are at first paralysed gradually recover their tone more or less completely. The veins possess a certain degree of tone as well as the arteries, and this is under a similar nervous control. Variations in the calibre of the vessels may be produced, first, by direct action on the vessels themselves, as by heat, cold or injury ; and secondly, by the action of the centres in the cord, medulla or brain. The action of the centres may be called into play or inhibited directly, as by injury, or by the quantity or quality of the blood circulating through them, or by the action of drugs ; or indirectly by afferent stimuli. Thus the circulation of venous blood through the centres, as in asphyxia, or an insufficient quantity, as in profuse haemorrhage, causes at first a stimulation of the general vaso-motor centre and a contraction of the vessels. Afferent stimuh act locally or