144 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. downwards and outwards, thus causing the head of the bone to press against the anterior part of the capsule, and to start out with a peculiar sucking noise as soon as the latter is opened. Should the bone have been fractured high up, this movement cannot be given to it and the operation is rendered somewhat more difficult. In such a case the Surgeon must grasp the upper end of the femur below the trochanters, so as to steady and push it back as he is disarticulating its head. In two of the cases in which I have amputated at the hip-joint, it has been necessary to do this—in one, in consequence of the crushing of the bone, two inches below the trochanters, by a railway accident; in the other, in consequence of its spontaneous fracture at the junction of its upper and middle thirds, in a case of rapidly growiug malignant disease of the bone. As a farther precaution against hsemorrhage the Assistant who steadies the body may press his thumb well down into the iliac fossa so as to compress the artery against the brim of the pelvis. If the tourniquet or compressor is acting efficiently there is no haemorrhage from the posterior flap, but should the in- strument be imperfectly applied there will be free haemorrhage from the gluteal and sciatic vessels, which must be arrested by the Assistants, who should be ready to compress them with their fingers or with dry sponges, or to seize them in forci-pi-essure forceps. The arteries may then be ligatured one by one, as the Assistant exposes them. If the other Assistant have a good hold of the femoral, the vessels in the posterior flap may be tied first; but if the femoral be insecurely held, it must be first tied. The femoral arteries, both superficial and deep, will be found to be cut long, and to project from the muscles by which they are surrounded, so as very readily to be seized by the fingers or forceps, pulled out, and ligatured. The arteries in the posterior flap and on the inner side of the joint will be found in the intermuscular septa. The flaps are to be brought together by sutures, two or three drainage-tubes of large size must be inserted, and after the dressing has been applied, a turn of a broad bandage may be passed round the abdomen, and the end brought up from behind under the stump so as to support it. 3. The oval amputation may be performed in the following way : The patient is placed on his sound side and the thigh of that side is secured with bandages as in the first method above described. The patient's body must be further steadied by an Assistant placed opposite the shoulders. Another Assistant takes charge of the thigh, and a third, who stands opposite the Surgeon, will take the vessel by thrusting the fingers of one hand into the wound and grasping the artery between them and his thumb. The patient being thus prepared, and the india-rubber band or aortic compressor applied, the Surgeon stands so as to have his left hand to the flaps, that is to say, behind for the right thigh, and in front for the left. An amputating knife of moderate length is to be chosen. The incision is commenced about two inches above the trochanter and carried firmly down to the bone and along the femur to about six or seven inches below the upper end of the bone. At this point the incision is made to bifurcate, one part being carried in a curved direction forwards for about two inches and the other backwards in the same way (Fig. 83, V)- This marks the point at which the transverse part of the incision is to be made. The limb is now abducted, and, if the first incision has been made with sufficient firmness, the operator will be able to push his thumb into the longitudinal slit which has been made in the lower parts of