FRACTURES. 524 thus the chief displacement in a broken leg is caused by the muscles of the calf. When one set of muscles is attached to the upper fragment and their opponents to the lower, as in the case of fracture of the radius above the insertion of the pronator radii, then the broken ends may be widely separated. As a rule, more than one cause is concerned in producing the disj)lacement, but in some cases, as in fractured patella and fractured olecranon, muscular contraction acts alone. The amount and direction of the displacement is often determined by the nature of the fracture. In longitudinal fractures there is no displacement; in transverse fractures the fragments may lock into each other and the dis- placement may be very slight. In oblique fractures the fragments commonly *' ride " one over the other. The Direction of the Displacement is influenced by the direction of the fi-acture, the position of the limb and muscular action ; it may be angular, transverse, longitudinal, or rotatory. In the angvlar displacement there is an abnormal curvature of the limb, and one or both ends of the broken bone may form a marked projection on the convex side of the curve. The con- cavity is usually on the side of the most powerful muscles. Thus in fracture of the middle of the femur, the angle projects on the anterior and outer side of the limb, the upper fragment being flexed, abducted, and rotated outwards by the psoas and iliacus and the external rotators, and the angle thus formed increased by the powerful flexors passing from the pelvis to the bones of the leg. Angular deformity is most common in oblique fractures. The transverse or lateral displacement occurs when a bone is broken directly across. The fragments often hitch one against another, thus being, as it were, entangled together, and in this case there is often but very little deformity. Longitudinal displacement is invariably shortening when the fracture occurs in the shaft of a long bone. It is due in most cases to muscular action, the broken ends of bone being brought together so as to overlap or " ride " over one another. In other cases, the shortening may be owing to the impaction of one fragment into the other. In some cases there is preternatural separation of the fragments, the weight of the limb tending to drag the lower one downwards, as in some rare fractures of the scapula, or muscular contraction drawing the upper one away from it, as in fracture of the patella. The rotatory displacement may be owing to the contraction of particular sets of muscles, twisting the lower fragment on its axis as well as producing shortening of the limb. Thus the pronators in some fractures of the radius have a tendency to rotate the lower fragments inwards. In other cases the line of obliquity of the fracture may determine the rotatory displacement; and in the lower extremity the weight of the limb will always turn the lower fragment outwards, just as the leg of a dead body rolls on to its outer side. 2. Preternatural Mobility in the Continuity of a bone cannot exist without fracture ; hence, its presence may always be looked upon as an unequi- vocal sign of broken bone. But fracture may exist without it when the frag- ments are impacted firmly one into the other. 3. Another sign of much value is the Crepitus or Grating together of the Bough Surfaces of the Broken Bone, which can be felt as well as heard on moving the limb. This can be elicited only when the fragments are movable and in contact. It is not, however, an invariable accompaniment of fracture ; being absent when the fracture is firmly impacted or the fragments