40 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. a rapid pulse ; these soon pass off and leave no evil effects behind. In more extreme cases, after larger doses, there have been marked pallor of the face, dilated pupils and syncope followed by great prostration on recovery. In one case the patient complained of being unable to see for some hours, and in two, articulation was indistinct for some time. The instances in which these un- pleasant consequences have been observed are not yet sufficiently numerous to make it possible to state accurately under what conditions they occur or what is the limit of safety in administering the drug. In one case of extensive tuberculous disease of the kidneys and bladder, 20 grains accidentally given as a draught proved fatal in about one hour. In a case of attempted suicide, 28 grains were taken internally without serious consequences ; and, on the other hand, Mayo Robson records a case in which a middle-aged gentleman became aphasic and unable to write half-an-hour after a solution containing one grain had been injected into the nose before the removal of a polypus. The sense of oppression on the chest and the cardiac disturbance are relieved by the inhalation of nitrite of amyl. Alcohol and subcutaneous injections of ether may be given to relieve the faintness. PEBFORMANCE OF AN OPERATION. In the performance of an operation in private practice the Surgeon must see for himself that the preparations are properly made. The room must be well lighted, of sufficient size and properly Avarmed. Whenever it is possible the patient should be placed upon a table. An ordinary bed is too low, and its width makes it difficult for both the Surgeon and his assistant to be within easy reach of the wound. The table upon which the patient is placed must be of the ordinary height. The strong deal table usually found in kitchens answers the purpose fairly well. It must be steady on its legs, and if it is not more than three feet wide it will be more convenient. It must be covered with a blanket folded into four layers ; another blanket must be provided to place over the patient's body, and pillows must be comfortably arranged for the head. A tray filled with saw-dust, or an old blanket folded very thickly, may be placed on the floor to catch the blood. The friends must be asked to provide in the room a dozen towels, four washing-basins, and two large cans, one of hot and one of cold water, and a slop-pail or foot-bath. A gallon or more of an antiseptic solution, such as carbolic acid lotion of the strength of 1 in 20, should be in readiness, which may be diluted to 1 in 40, for washing the sponges. The necessary amount of the antiseptic solution, according to the extent and nature of the operation, must first be prepared, and the cans of common water must then be removed to one corner of the room, and orders given to the nurse not to touch them ; for, unless she is thoroughly experienced, she is almost certain to use plain water instead of the antiseptic fluid during the excitement of the operation. The sponges should be brought by the Surgeon himself, and should be properly prepared. Improperly-cleansed sponges have always been justly considered a potent source of infection in wounds. New sponges are apt to be gritty, and should be soaked in a dilute solution of hydrochloric acid for at least twenty-four hours, after which they must be carefully washed. They should then lie for at least twenty-four hours in a 1 in 20 solution of carbolic acid. They nmst then be squeezed as dry as possible, and put in a glass