TUMOURS. lOIO walls, and as it extended too deeply into the ham to admit of ready removal, I common. They are met with in the mamma from obstruction of the lacteal ducts, in the mouth as ranula from obstruction of Wharton's duct, and in the testicle, forming the so-called encysted hydrocele or spermatocele. Cysts of similar origin are also met with in the liver and kidney. The consideration of the symptoms and treatment of these cysts must be deferred to the chapters on the diseases of the organs in which they occur. II. Cysts of New Formation.—Cysts of new formation may be divided into {a) Simple or serous cysts ; (b) Hasmatoma or blood-cyst; {c) Cystic tumours, compound and proliferous cysts ; {d) Cysts in tumours. (a) Simple or Serous Cysts may occur in any part of the body. They are composed of a thin wall lined with a flat endothelium, like that of a serous or synovial membrane. Their contents are "a slightly viscid serous fluid. They are supposed to arise from effusion of fluid in the spaces of the areolar tissue ; by the pi-essure of the flaid the surrounding fibres are squeezed together and thus form the membranous wall of the cyst, which subsequently becomes thickened by new growth of fibrous tissue. False or Accidental Bursts arise in this way over any bony prominence which is exposed to pressure and friction ; in fact there is some reason to believe that all bursas are thus formed. Whether this be the case or not, false bursse when once formed are liable to the same diseases as those that are usually assumed to be of normal development. The most common and troublesome false bursa is that formed over the projecting head of the first metatarsal bone which gives rise to the condition known as a " IjunionP It is probable that many of the tumours classed as " ganglia " are formed in the same way, especially those on the back of the hand, as the extensor tendons in that region do not possess a sheath sufliciently definite to allow of a hernial protrusion from it. The serous cysts met with in the neck do not belong to this class. They are either congenital or formed by dilatation of pre-existing spaces, such as the bursse about the hyoid bone or larynx. Haematoma or Blood-Cyst.—Under this term have been included four entirely difl'erent conditions :— (1.) The true Uood-cijst. This is a thin-walled cyst containing pure blood ; if its contents are withdrawn by puncture it rapidly fills again, and cases have been recorded in which death from haimorrhage has followed incisions made into such cysts. They are most common about the neck, in close connection with the sheaths of the vessels, or the parotid region ; but they have been met with elsewhere. Their origin is very doubtful, Some, from their multilocular form and direct communication with the veins are supposed to have originated in nsevi. In others, the cyst is single, and has no connection with any distinct vessel; the blood seems in these to be furnished by an extremely vascular cyst- wall, as in a case recorded by Gay. These sanguineous cysts may sometimes resemble in general appearance a soft vascular sarcoma. A case of this kind was sent to me by Henry Bennet: a tumour about the size of an orange, of nodulated appearance, was situated in the leg of a woman below the knee, where it had been gradually increasing in size for about a couple of years. So close was the resemblance to malignant disease, that amputation had been advised by some Surgeons who had previously seen the case ; as, however, the growth, on examination, proved to be a sanguineous cyst, with thin and adherent