I02 SPECIAL AMPUTATIONS. extremely difficult. In the latter method (Fig. 44) a large flap, almost square in shape; but having its angles rounded off, is marked out m the palm by an incision commencing at one styloid process and terminatmg at the other. The flap should extend to within one finger's breadth of the transverse told m the palm opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones, and should include everything down to the flexor tendons. The flap is raised without ditticultj till the ridge of the trapezium and the hook of the unciform are met witti. At this point great care must be taken to keep the edge of the knife turned towards the bones, while firm traction is exerted on the flap. If this be done it will usually be found that the anterior annular ligament and median nerve have been raised in the flap. When the palmar flap has been raised, a curved incision is made across the back of the wrist, with its convexity downwards, connecting the two extremities of the previous incision and markmg out a flap about one inch in length. The wrist being forcibly flexed, the ]omt is now opened, and the ligaments divided. The hand is attached now only by the flexor tendons, which may be divided by a single sweep of the knite—J/^^ palmar flap Idng carefully held oul of Ihe iva;/. The palmar flap will be found usually to contain the median and ulnar nerves and the superficial palmar arch, with portions of the muscles of the thumb and little finger. It is better to cut out a small piece of each nerve where it is exposed at the base ot the flap as the trunks might be a source of pain if pressed against the ends ot the bones, and the branches supplying the palm of the hand arise at a higher level. The most common error in performing this operation, and one which must be carefully guarded against, is commencing the incision for the palmar flap too much towards the palmar aspect of the wrist, instead of starting from he auices of the styloid processes. The base of the flap may thus be lelt very thin and narrow In the after treatment it is better to place the stump supmated on a pillow above the patient's head, so that it shall drain better, and the flap may have less tendency to displacement. n • , u a ^A Of these two methods amputation by the palmar flap is the better, and should always be adopted when the condition of the soft parts permits of it. it it is not possible to get sufficient covering from the palm a good stump may sometimes be made by taking the flaps equally from the dorsal and palmar GIT T*Tfi f*PS • • Amputation by the external flap (Dubrueil's method) is done by an incision commencing on the dorsal aspect of the wrist at the junction of the outer with the middle third and a little below the line of the articulation. The knife is carried downwards towards the cleft between the thumb and fore-finger till it reaches a point opposite the lower third of the metacarpal bone of the thumb, and then outwards across the bone to the inner side of the thenar eminence which is followed upwards till the incision terminates on the palmar aspect at a point exactly opposite that at which it commenced on the dorsum The an-les of the flap should be slightly rounded off in marking it out. ihe flap is then raised with as much of the short muscles of the thumb as possible. A second incision is then carried round the inner side of the wi'ist, half an inch below the styloid process of the ulna. The joint is then opened and disarticu- lation completed. The external flap is then brought inwards over the lower ends of the bones. This method is said to give a very good result, in all methods the end of the stump may be made more level by removing the extre- mities of the styloid processes with a fine saw.