562 FRACTURES. gradually heals, it may be dressed with some stimulating lotion such as the " red " or " blue " Avash, Septic Osteomyelitis was formerly a very common complication of compound fractures, but since the introduction of antiseptic dressing it is very rarely met with. The pathology, symptoms and treatment of this condition 'are described in the Chapter on Inflammation of Bone and its Effects (Vol. TI. Chap. XLA^.). Necrosis of the Ends of the Fragments.—In compound fracture m which suppuration has occurred the bone will often be observed lying white and bare, bathed in pus, at the bottom of the wound. But even in this apparently unfavourable condition it may recover, granulations gradually springing up on its surface and covering it in ; in other cases, necrosis takes place, and perfect consolidation does not occur until the dead bone has separated. Curling has shown that those portions of necrosed bone which are connected with the lower fragment are slower in detaching themselves. In some instances a large quantity of provisional callus is formed, in which the necrosed bone is embedded, openings remaining through the shell thus formed^ for the exit of pus. In such cases it may be necessary to cut away some of the new bone to extract the necrosed portions when they are loose : but not uncommonly amputation becomes necessary, from the powers of the patient being unable to carry him through so prolonged a struggle. The time required for the consolidation of a compound fracture in which suppuration has taken place varies greatly, according to the amount of injury done to the bones and soft parts, and the age and constitution of the patient. In the most favourable circumstances, it requires double or treble the time that is necessary for the union of a simple fracture. As soon as some union has taken place, the limb should be firmly put up in gutta-percha or leather splints, with a starched or plaster bandage, so as to enable the patient to be taken out of bed, to change the air of his room, and thus to keep up his general health. In fitting these splints, care must be taken to make an aperture opposite the wound, through which it may be dressed (Fig. Secondary Amputation may become necessary from the occurrence ot traumatic gangrene, and then it must be done in accordance with the prin- ciples already laid down when speaking of that operation ; it is also occa- sionally performed in the hope of preventing pyaemia when diffused septic osteomyelitis has set in ; but more frequently it is required from failure of the powers of the patient in consequence of septic fever, induced by absorption of the products of putrefaction from the w^ound and the infiltrated parts around, or by hectic resulting from chronic suppuration. In these circum- stances', by removing the source of the mischief in time and seizing an interval when the fever is at its loAvest point, the patient's life will in all probability be preserved ; the results of secondary amputation for compound fracture in these conditions l)eing by no means unfavourable. Indeed it is remarkable how speedily the constitutional symptoms subside after the removal of the source from which the absorption of septic matter is taking place ; the patient often sleeping well and taking his food with appetite the day after the operation. The proper period to choose for the performance of secondary amputation in the earlier stages of the injury is often a most critical point. As a rule it may I