UNION BY FIRST INTENTION. 287 be introduced, it will pass off in from twelve to twenty-four hours when all the phenomena of inflammation which occur as a consequence of it will subside. This being the condition of the surfaces of the wound, the early phenomena of union by first intention are readily explained by the application of the description of the process of inflammation already given. Haemorrhage is first an-ested. In the larger vessels this is effected by artificial means to be discussed hereafter, but in the smaller it occurs spontaneously. The mechanical stimulation caused by the cutting instrument causes a contraction of the smaller arteries extending some little distance from the surface of the wound, and amounting to complete or almost complete closure, and thus the rapidity of the capillary circulation supplied by them is retarded and its force diminished. Such blood as finds its way into the wounded capillaries when it reaches the damaged area shows the phenomena of stasis. The red corpuscles adhere to each other and to the wall of the vessel, and plug its lumen, and at the most damaged part where the vessel is divided the con- dition'passes on to definite coagulation, and a small adherent clot is formed, which closes the open mouth of the capillary. The contraction of the arteries is merely temporary, and soon passes off, giving place to dilatation ; but by the time this takes place, the clots in the divided capillaries are sufficiently firm and adherent to prevent a recurrence of the hsemorrhage. The fulness of the vessels resulting from the arterial relaxation is readily observable, and is indicated by the blush of redness, with slight swelling, always seen in the ed«ye8 of a wound a short time after its infliction. This redness is not limited to "the area actually injured by the knife, but extends to some distance, often one inch or more from the edge of the wound. The causes of this extensive blush of redness arc, first, the stimulation of the sensory nerves consequent upon the wound, which, as we have before seen, causes vascular dilatation in the area supplied by the nerves acted on ; and, secondly, the mechanical obstruction to the circulation caused by the obliteration of the vessels divided in the wound. The blood-pressure being thus increased, while at the same time the vitality of the walls of the vessels has been lowered or suspended in the injured area, abundant effusion of coagulable exudation, with escape of a greater or less number of red corpuscles and rapid migration of the white, sets in ; and the exudation, finding a ready way by the open lymph spaces, pours out on the surface of the wound. Here it coagulates ; the fibrin entangling innumerable white corpuscles in its meshes, mixed with a variable number of red, remains adherent to the surface, while the serum, darkly stained with red corpuscles, drains away. It is seldom in the present day that an opportunity is obtained of watching the naked-eye appearances of this process, as wounds are almost invariably closed as soon as possible after their infliction; but formerly many Surgeons left wounds open, to become " glazed," as it was called, before bringing them together. In an amputation wound treated in this way the process of exudation can be watched ; drops of reddish serum accumulate here and there on the surfaces of the flaps, like beads of perspira- tion in profuse sweating; these by coalescence with others, and by gradual increase, reach a certain size, and then trickle off" the surface of the exposed wound, like drops of rain down a window. After the process has lasted an hour or two, the surface of the flap begins to assume a glazed appearance, the " glaze " being formed of the coagulated fibrin mixed with corpuscles as above described. This material, to which in the present day the term "plastic