SYPHILITIC DISEASES OF BONE. 1159 followed by necrosis of the hard palate, of the turbinate and ethmoid bones ; but it is a remarkable fact that the hard palate is not nearly so frequently affected as the nasal and spongy bones. In consequence of this destruction of bony tissue, the nose may fall in, or a communication may be established between the nose and the mouth through the hard palate. Syphihtic necrosis may also affect the alveolar processes of the jaws. It is very uncommon m the long bones. Syphilitic Caries, or ulceration of bone, is most commonly the result of the softening of a periosteal gumma, but it may be due to the extension of a superficial ulcer to the bone in thinly covered parts. The caries is rarely uncompHcated ; usually, the surrounding compact bone is sclerosed, or in the neighbom-hood of the ulcer there may be a considerable formation of new bone Fif;. 408.—Sypiiilitic Caries of Frontal Bono. The surface of tlie bone is extensively worm-eaten and eroded. Above the right orbit tliere is a shallow depression which has resulted from the healing of a carious patch. from the periosteum. In other cases the process is a combination of necrosis and ulceration ; the sequestra being surrounded by a zone of ulceration extend- ing a considerable distance from the dead bone and not closely limited to its edge, as in the process of separation of a single piece of dead bone. Syphilitic caries is most common in the skull (Fig. 408), but it is met with also in other parts. The upper part of the sternum is not an uncommon situation. It is also met with in the extremities. I have twice seen a peculiar form of caries of the cancellous tissae of the head of the tibia in old syphilitic cases. In both cases, which were very similar, the patients had been affected for a length of time with nodes of the tibia, as a consequence of long antecedent syphilitic taint. A chronic abscess eventually developed over the head of the bone, leading to a carious cavity. I exposed this and gouged the diseased bone away ; it was peculiarly dry, light, and almost flocculent, if such a term can be