SEPTICEMIA AND PYjEMIA. 966 subject is now so vast that it is impossible here to give more than the briefest possible summary of the results that have been obtained. If a septic liquid, such as putrid blood or serum, or water in which animal tissues have been macerated, be carefully filtered and injected either into the subcutaneous tissue or directly into a vein of an animal, certain definite symptoms are produced. If the dose injected be in sufficient quantity to prove fatal, the first symptom is a slight shudder, followed by some muscular twitchings and restlessness; but muscular power soon begins to fail and the animal falls on its side. In the meantime vomiting and profuse diarrhoea with tenesmus set in ; the ejecta being at first feculent, but rapidly becoming serous and tinged with blood. Dyspnoea comes on, power over the voluntary muscles is still further lost, and death ensues apparently from failure of the heart's action. The temperature rises at first from three to four degrees and then gradually subsides, rapidly falling at last to one or two degrees below the normal as the animal dies. The fatal effect is produced in from two to three hours, or even less, to twenty-four hours, or more, according to the dose. If the qufintity injected be insufficient to cause death the animal quickly recovers its normal health, even though severe gastro-intestiual symptoms may have been induced. When smaller doses are used a febrile disturbance of limited duration is the only result. If an animal killed in this way be examined after death, tolerably uniform appearances are met with: the blood is dark-coloured, and sometimes im- perfectly coagulated, the inner coat of the vessels and the endocardium are darkly stained, and the serum is reddened by the colouring matter of the red corpuscles, which have become, to a certain extent, disintegrated in the blood even before the death of the animal. Small extravasations of blood (petechia?) are found beneath the pericardium and pleura, and occasionally in other parts; the lungs are congested, the glandular viscera swollen, and the spleen enlarged, soft, and pulpy. The mucous membrane of the intestines is intensely injected, and its epithelium is found to have been separated. Further experiments have shown that the blood in an animal thus killed is not infective, and contains no recognizable microscopic organisms. The process is, therefore, assumed to be one of simple poisoning by a chemical poison, and no more an infective process than if arsenic or any similar substance were injected into the blood-stream. The investigations of Brieger, Selmi, Grautier, and others have shown that the so-called ''jjtomaines " derived from decomposing animal fluids are alkaloidal in nature. In chemical com- position they are extremely complicated, but can be obtained in a pure crystalline form. The first substance of this kind was obtained by Panum in 1856, and to it the name of " Sepsin " was given by Bergmann. It was made by adding strong boiling alcohol to a filtered meat-infusion which had become putrid ; the precipitate thus obtained was dissolved in water, and the clear solution gave rise, when injected, to the characteristic symptoms of septic poisoning. The clear solution of the septic poison was perfectly free from microscopic organisms. The relation of micro-organisms to the process of putrefection has already been discussed (p. 177 et seq.); and assuming the germ theory of decomposition to be true, bacteria, although not themselves concerned directly in the production of the symptoms of septic poisoning, arc essential to the production of the poison. That they are not the actual poison was shown by Hiller, who collected a mass of the ordinary bacteria of putre-