36 GENERAL REMARKS ON OPERATIONS. bronchitis and emphysema of old people, in some cases leading to slow asphyxia a few hours or days after the operation. In these cases no anassthetic is free from danger, but chloroform is probably the safest. In Disease of the Heart, accompanied by feeble action due to fatty degenera- tion or dilatation, ether may be used ; chloroform, being a cardiac depressant, is dangerous. Ether must, however, be given with caution, as the venous obstruction it sometimes gives rise to may be too much for the feeble heart to overcome. For the same reason, gas is dangerous in such cases. Slight valvular disease of the heart has little influence on the choice of the an£esthetic. If there ;s reason to believe that there is advanced arterial degeneration ether must be given with caution, lest rupture of a vessel in the brain should occur during the stage of excitement: but as the heart m these cases is frequently diseased, chloroform also causes anxiety. It is best, perhaps, under these circumstances, cautiously to give the A. C. E." mixture. In Disease of the Kidneys, with much albumen in the urine, all ani:Bsthetics are dangerous, especially ether. In Diahetes nitrous oxide is said to have caused a fatal exacerbation of the disease. Probably chloroform is the safest anesthetic in this condition. In Epileptics no anesthetic is free from risk, but from the experience derived from brain surgery, probably morphia and chloroform would be the safest. In Hysterical and Insam patients chloroform, preceded or not by a hypodermic injection of morphia, is probably the best as giving rise to the least excitement. In patients who are under the infinence of opium it is wiser to give chloroform, as ether under these circum- stances might dangerously depress the respiratory centre or choke the lungs with mucus, leading to slow asphyxia before the patient recovered sufficiently from the opium to cough it up. If, during anesthesia from ether, it is thought necessary to change to chloroform in order to obtain more perfect relaxation, or on account of very excessive accumulation of mucus in the pharynx and lungs, this must not be done suddenly, lest the already embarrassed heart be brought to a stand- still. The patient must be allowed partially to recover and to clear his lungs before the new anesthetic is given. The Administration of an Anaesthetic during Shock was at one time objected to on the ground that it would still further depress the patient, and that the pain of the operation would be a good stimulus to rouse him. Common sense, as well as experience, are against such an argument. Pain is far more depressing than any anesthetic. Unfortunately we cannot entirely prevent the additional shock caused by an operation under these circumstances even by anesthetics, for it is an interesting physiological fact that shock is produced on the system even though the patient be completely anesthetised. This is particularly noticeable in castration, in which, at the moment when the cord is cut, the pulse falls several beats or stops momentarily, even thouo-h the patient be quite insensible. Hence, it may be argued that, althouo-h anesthesia saves the patient that amount of shock which arises from pain, ft does not relieve him entirely from the impression produced on the svstem by a severe mutilation. -, , . . * As an anesthetic to be administered during shock ether undoubtedly is preferable to chloroform. Owing to its stimulating action on the heart the pulse will frequently improve during the operation, and it can be pushed to deep anesthesia without risk. Chloroform, on the other hand, depresses the