TREATMENT OF CONTRACTION AFTER BURNS. to the external jugular vein, which becomes greatly distended by the pressure thus exercised upon it. And at the elbow, which is a common seat of contraction from burns, the brachial artery may become involved in the cicatrix to a dangerous extent. I have heard of one case in which this vessel was divided in cutting through the cicatrix, when amputation of the arm was immediately resorted to. These operations are most successful in cases of contraction at the flexures of the joints. If the contraction be of very long standing, the arteries and nerves will have become shortened, and incapable of stretching under any force that may safely be employed ; hence they may easily be torn. 2. Operations undertaken for the removal of the "disfigurements that occur about the face and neck as the result of burns, require much manage- ment. In these cases, simple division of the cicatrix is insufficient; and Transplantation of a Flap of Skin is required in addition. After the cicatrix and all cicatricial bands have been freely divided in accordance with the rules just given, a flap of integument, of sufficient size to fill the greater part of the gap, must be dissected up from the neighbouring parts of the neck, chest, or shoulder, and laid into the cicatrix. There it should be fixed by sutures ; but extreme care must be taken that no traction be put upon it, lest Fig. 119.—Incisions in Teale's Operation for Cicatricial Deformity of the Lower Lij). Fig. 120.—Teale's Operation : the Flaps in place. it slough. Even if union takes place by the second intention a very satis- factory result may often be obtained, _ The flaps must be cut much larger than the raw surface which they are intended to fill, in order to allow for the shrinkage due to the elasticity of the skm. Croft has obtained excellent results by operating in two stao-es First a strap of skin is raised from the healthy surface near the cicatrix but is left attached at its two ends until the under surface has granulated. Durino- this time the skm is prevented from re-uniting by a strip of protective oiled silk slipped beneath it. Secondly, the cicatricial bands are freely divided and after cutting through one end of the bridge of skin, the latter is drawn across he raw surface and adjusted with sutures. In one case treated by Croft in tins way, the strip of skm measured nine inches in length and two and a half inches in breadth. The directions given by Teale for the restoration of the ower hp when dragged down everted, and partially destroyed by cicatrisation following a burn, are so simple and lead to such excellent results, that I c^ive them nearly in his own words. The everted lip is divided into tln-ee parts" by two vertical incsions three-quarters of an inch long, carried down to'the (Pio 'I P ^"1^^^^ thft the middle portion between them (l^ig. ll'J B) occupies one-half of the hp. From the lower end of each incision the knife is carried upwards to a point one inch beyond the ande of VOL. I. >/ Q KJi D D