926 SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. CHAPTER XXXI. DISEASES ARISING FROM SEPTIC AND INFECTIVE PROCESSES IN WOUNDS. This group of diseases, including septicaemia, pyasmia, anthrax, tetanus, rabies, erysipelas, hospital gangrene and some others of less importance, has been investigated of recent years by numberless observers with an energy and ability probably never exceeded in any branch of science. As the means of observation were improved and new methods of investigation invented, so the conviction in the minds of the majority of pathologists became more .and more confirmed that all these unhealthy processes are directly caused by the action of living micro-organisms. We are still very far from knowing all the con- ditions which, as predisposing or accessory causes, take part in the develop- ment of these diseases, or the exact mode in which the organisms give rise to the various morbid processes with which they are associated; but that their relation to them is, in some forms of disease at least, actually one of cause and effect, may be said to be no longer a mere hypothesis. The relations of microscopic organisms to unhealthy inflammations, and the nature of a true infective process have already been discussed in the chapter on Inflammation, p. 177, et seq. It will be remembered that it was there pointed out that a clear distinction must be drawn between simple putrefaction and infective processes. Simple putrefaction is a fermentative change taking place in dead matter only, and the products of the fermentation may excite inflammation and suppuration locally, and if absorbed give rise to a definite constitutional disturbance ; but the organized ferment which determines the process cannot act on living tissues, consequently there is no true infection, either locally or of the system in general. It is to processes of this kind that the term " septic " should be limited, the word then being synonymous with " putrid." In a true infective process the virus infects the living tissues, increasing in quantity amongst them, and gives rise to unhealthy processes in them. These may be local, the accompanying constitutional disturbance being merely the result of the absorption of the chemical products resulting from the growth of the organisms ; or general, when the virus enters the blood-stream and multiplies in it. The former is called a local, and the latter a general infective process. In simple septic processes the fungi which are supposed to cause them are said to be non-pathogenic or non-parasitic ; in infective processes they are spoken of as pathogenic or parasitic. The term " mycosis " is often used to signify the infection of the living tissues by fungoid organisms. Although these septic and infective processes are distinct from each other they are nearly related ; infective processes very rarely starting from wound?, unless the discharges are in a septic condition. This fact has been explained by supposing that non-pathogenic organisms may develop pathogenic pro-