OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF PART I. spheres, properly so called. In other words, the Corpus Callosum is a true commissure of the Crura Cerebri. But do its Fibres pass from one side to the other across the median line? Is there upon this line an anastomosis of Fibres? These are questions to which my examinations of this part have not yet enabled me to reply. " LZd Plain.—Immediately beneath the plain which we have just examined, and from the same line, is separated a second plain, which, from its destination, we shall be warranted in calling the Plain of the Hemisphere. This plain, at first ascending parallel to that of the Corpus Cal- losum, to which it is applied in the first part of its course, afterwards quits that plain, where it is reflected inwards; and continuing in a nearly vertical direction, reaches the Cineritious matter of the convolutions along the Curved Line, at which the convex external and the flat internal surface of the Hemisphere meet each other; that is to say, it reaches the most elevated part of the Hemisphere along its whole length. " Both to the inner and the outer side of its insertion, this plain is expanded beneath the grey matter which it lines in the form of a white layer, of which the fibrous structure is not nearly so evident as is that of the plain itself. This expansion follows all the folds of the grey substance, and, conjointly with it, constitutes the convolu- tions which are applied to the two surfaces of the plain of the Hemisphere. " When this plain is examined on its upper surface, we see Fibres, of which all the bundles radiate towards the circumference; where they are inserted and converge to- wards the expansion of the Crura, of which its Fibres are evidently the continuation. " Sd Plain.—Beneath this Plain of the Hemisphere, but still arising from the same line, there proceeds a third plain, of less extent than the two preceding, and taking quite a different direction. " This plain, immediately after its emersion from the origin common to it and to the two first-mentioned plains,