( ix ) which have ceased to be in activity before death. A Classi- fication of Morbid Appearances, formed on this principle, will be found in No. I. of the annexed Tables. A very dif- ferent classification is required in the arrangement of spe- cimens collected in a Pathological Museum: but, from the complicated nature of the subject, this arrangement may be almost infinitely varied. To some, an arrangement founded on the basis of General Anatomy may be thought the most desirable : others may prefer making their divisions cor- respond with different regions of the body: others may distribute them with reference to the functions of the parts preserved; and many systems might follow, grounded on Nosological Classifications*. The Author, at one time, proposed to take the Morbid Anatomy of Dr. Baillie as the text-book for the Museum; and to have placed the Preparations in accordance with the arrangement adopted in that work: but he very soon abandoned this design, finding the work inadequate to the purpose. For the arrangement which he ultimately adopted, although in many respects original, he is indebted in no small degree to the excellent work of Professor Meckel. The outlines of this arrangement are exhibited in Tables II. and III. The Preparations in a Museum, in addition to their first * In the Museum at Leyden the following Divisions are employed: 1. Ossa Morbosa. 4. Monstra. 2. Partes Molles Morbosa:. 5. Varia. 3. Calculi. In the Museum of the University of Pavia, a greater number of Divi- sions are employed, but they seem to be founded on unequal grounds of separation: hence some of them ought to form Genera, rather than Orders:— 1st head consists of Osteopathia. 7. Choloses. cl. Neuroses. 8. Ureses. 3. Pneumonoses. 9. Aidoioses. 4. Angioses. ]0. Adenoses. 5. Gastroses. n. Entozoa. 6. Enteroses. 12. Monstra. This Epitome of the Pavian Classification was given to the Author by his accomplished friend T. Hardy, jun., whose name repeatedly figures in the Catalogue, as a liberal contributor to the Museum.