OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF PART I. a different arrangement: but before speaking of this, it will be proper clearly to define whence we are to set out. " The fibrous expansion of the Crus forms, in the sub- stance of the Corpus Striatum and Thalamus, a large plain directed obliquely outwards and upwards. This plain separates the Cineritious matter of the Corpus Striatum into two nearly equal portions; of which, the one rests on the superior face of the plain, and is that which we see projecting into the Ventricle; the other, placed beneath the plain, is, as it were, lost in the mass of the Hemisphere. This broad plain of the Corpus Striatum and Optic Tha- lamus, or, in other words, the expansion of the Crus Cerebri, presents nearly the figure of a triangle bounded by two straight lines and a curved one: the two straight lines are, the two sides of the Crus : the curved line is the boundary of the Corpus and Thalamus to the outer side of the Ventricle. It is to this curved line, as to a circum- ference, that the radiating Fibres of the Crus are directed. This line, the imaginary limit of the expansion of the Crus, we shall assume as the origin of other parts which we are now about to examine. " From this line, on the outer side, there proceed three perfectly distinct plains or layers, placed one above another at their origin, whence each pursues a particular course. " 1*/ Plain.—The superior plain, which, on account of its distinction, we may call the Plain of the Ventricle, or the Plain of the Corpus Callosum, arising from the curved line before mentioned, mounts on the outer side of the Corpus Striatum and Thalamus, to which it is applied; having, in the first part of its course, a nearly vertical direc- tion. It forms a slight convexity outwards; and then, bending inwards horizontally towards the median line, unites with its fellow, with which it concurs to form the Corpus Callosum. " Thus the Corpus Callosum, as a whole, represents a roof, of which the sides proceeding from the plain of the Corpus Striatum and Thalamus are continuous with the Crura Cerebri, and have nothing to do with the Hemi-