( viii ) Observations which will be found prefixed to the different Sections are designed rather to add to the interest of some particular points, than generally to illustrate the objects comprised in the Sections. It will not be amiss now to offer some remarks respecting the plan of arrangement which has been adopted in the distribution of the specimens described in this Catalogue. It may be thought by some, that it is a matter of little or no importance what system of arrangement be adopted, provided only that it be adhered to with sufficient exact- ness to lead to the discovery of any required preparation. The Author, however, is convinced, that on the arrange- ment, a considerable part of the advantage which may be derived from a Pathological Collection must mainly de- pend. It became, therefore, a matter of considerable im- portance, to consider the principle on which the arrange- ment was to be founded. Every classification employed to facilitate an acquaint- ance with any of the various objects of Natural Sci- ence is necessarily artificial, rather than belonging to Nature herself. However scrupulously we may endea- vour to be guided by those indications which she seems to afford us for making these divisions, the view which we present is like that which is gained by making a section of a compound solid mass. We may see the relations of some of the parts; but numerous other relations remain, which it requires fresh sections to expose. This observa- tion is particularly applicable to Morbid Anatomy. Hence, for different purposes, different modes of arrangement are to be preferred. In considering the appearances presented by a single inspection, it is essential to keep in mind the order of time in their production, and guard against confounding those appearances which are cadaveric with those which have been produced by disease; and, in the latter, to draw a distinction between those which are recent and those which are of long standing, or may be the result of maladies