OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION XI. OF PART I. know almost as little of the causes of those manifest va- rieties which the Blood exhibits in disease, pregnancy, &c. The Chyle and Lymph, Fluids tributary to the Blood, and the various secretions and excretions in which it is in part expended, all demand a more minute examination than they have as yet received ; although they have already, in no trifling degree, repaid the labour of many distin- guished experimentalists. Amongst these, may be justly signalized, Marcet, Vauquelin, Barzelius, Bostock, Brande, Prout, Chevreuil, and Dowler. The investigations in which Dr. Benjamin Babington is at present engaged, pre- sent the promise of supplying some of the desiderata which have been alluded to. It is not by purely chemical examination that we can hope to obtain all the knowledge which it is desirable that we should possess respecting the animal Fluids. The assistance of a supposed Electric influence has been called in, to explain some of the vital phaenomena in which the Fluids are concerned. Two of the greatest Philosophers, whom this or any other country has produced, and whose recent death the Scientific World is at this moment de- ploring, have lent their names to the sanction of such an hypothesis. Yet few, if any, attempts have been made to bring it to the test of experiment. The labours of the Electro-Magnetists, and more especially of Becquerel, have prepared the way for the elucidation of this interesting subject. The mechanical constitution of the Blood, and of several other animal Fluids, has long afforded an interesting sub- ject of research to microscopic examiners; from Malpighi and Leeuwenhoeck, down to Home and Bauer, Prevost and Dumas, and Dr. Milne Edwards. On the supposed existence of uniform globular particles in some of these Fluids has been formed a theory of the organization of most of the Tissues; and the presence of Animalculae in the Semen has led to various speculations on the function of generation. The researches of Prevost and Dumas arc the most complete which have been made in reference to