OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION XI. OF FART I. a depression in the middle, which exists on both surfaces. This form perfectly agrees with the accurate observation of Dr. Young, that on the disks of the particles there is an annular shade, which is darkest on that side of the centre on which the margin is brightest. Though the Doctor drew the obvious conclusion that the disks were concave, he does not consider the fact as demonstrated; since the appearance might be produced by a difference in the refractive power of different parts of the corpuscle. "This objection we think completely met: " 1st. By their reflecting the erect image of any opaque body placed between them and the light, precisely as a concave lens would do. " 2dly. By the appearance presented by the particles when viewed dry, as opaque bodies. When illuminated by the whole of the Leiberkuhn, the entire margin is enlightened, and, in most of the particles, there is, besides, a broad inner ring, of considerable brightness; whilst the centre, and the space between the two rings, is completely dark. On half the Leiberkuhn being covered, the rings are reduced to semicircles; the outer one being opposite to the light side, and the inner to the darkened side, of the speculum. " 3dly. When fluid Blood having been placed between two slips of glass, the particles happen to be at right angles to the surfaces of the glass, so as to be seen in profile, the two concave surfaces are visible at the same time, or alternately; but more distinctly, if the particles slightly vacillate. " The concavity of the disks is, however, extremely trifling; and, under particular circumstances, in a few of the particles, the surface is, to all appearance, quite flat. " Notwithstanding the great uniformity in the size of the particles of the Blood, so long as they retain, unimpaired, the form which they possess on escaping from the body, their real magnitude has been so variously estimated, that we judged it worth while to attempt a new measurement. In doing so, we adopted a method somewhat different