OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION XI. OF PART I. the Mammalia, and an elliptical one in the other three classes. There are varieties, both in the size and propor- tion of the particles, in different species. Thus, for example, in the pig and rabbit, the particles have a less diameter, but a greater thickness than in man. We have hitherto invariably found the elliptical particles larger than the circular, but they are proportionably thinner. In birds, the particles are much more numerous, but smaller than in either reptiles or fishes. " There are numerous interesting phenomena which present themselves when the particles lose their integrity and assume new forms. Changes of this description are occasioned by the spontaneous decomposition which the Blood undergoes a longer or a shorter time after its escape from the body, by mechanical violence, and by the addition of various substances, which appear to exert a chemical action on the matter of which the particles are composed. To these appearances we have been induced to devote the more attention, from their seeming calculated to throw some light on the composition and structure of the particles. We were also desirous of not hastily or rashly denying the existence of those colourless central globules which have been strongly insisted on by Sir Everard Home and Bauer, and by Prevost and Dumas; and which have been regarded not merely by them, but by other distinguished and intelligent Physiologists, as constituting, by their varied combination, the different organic tissues. The separation and detection of these globules is stated to be facilitated by some of the means which effect the changes to which I have alluded; but, as I have already stated, we have in vain looked for these globules. " After Blood, taken from the living body, has been kept a sufficient length of time for an alteration in the form of the particles to commence—and this, according to circum- stances, will be from a very few hours to one or more days—the first change which we have noticed is a notched or jagged appearance of the edge of a few of the particles.