( v ) appropriated to anatomical demonstration and dissection, and to the inspection of morbid bodies. N. Davie, a very zealous and intelligent young man, at that time filled the office of Demonstrator. After this individual's untimely death, several preparations of healthy and morbid ana- tomy, collected by him as the commencement of a private Museum, were purchased by the Treasurer, and presented to the Hospital. These, together with several specimens met with in the Hospital, and preserved, by the care of Richard Stocker, formed a small Anatomical Collection, devoted to the illustration of the Medical Lectures de- livered in the Theatre of Guy's Hospital. In the year 1806, when the office of Demonstrator was held by Benjamin Travers, several Regulations were passed by the Treasurer, to promote the conveniences and advan- tages accruing from this part of the Establishment; and, at the same time, it was expressly understood, that all speci- mens of morbid structure, met with in subjects either dissected by the Pupils or inspected at the request of the Medical Officers, should be preserved, as the property of the Hospital. Nevertheless, the accessions to the Museum . were far from being numerous; probably from the circum- stance, that no one was specially charged with the prepara- tion of the reserved parts. It was not till the year 1824, that, at the instance of the Medical Officers of the Hospital, a Curator, (T. A. S. Dodd,) was appointed to take charge of the preparation and preservation of specimens, and to assist the Inspector in conducting and recording the post nwrtem examinations: he had likewise the care of making Casts of such interesting Cases as occurred in the Hospital, and to which this mode of representation was best adapted. The extension of the School, which shortly after took place, necessarily increased the importance of the Museum; and corresponding exertions were directed to its augmenta- tion. It is only from this period, that the departments of Descriptive and Comparative Anatomy can be said to date their existence. The department of Morbid Anatomy has