OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION XI. OF PART D this subject. The following citation, on the microscopical characters of the Blood, Pus, and Milk, concur with those prefixed to some preceding Sections, in militating against the globular theory above alluded to. Particles of the Blood.—" In our examination of these cor- puscles, we have in vain looked for the globular form attributed to them, not only by the older authors, Leeuwenhoeck, Fontana, and Haller, but still more re- cently by Sir Everard Home and Bauer. Our observa- tions are also at variance with the opinion long since formed by Hewson, that these particles consisted of a central globule enclosed in a vesicle composed of the coloured part; and which, though refuted by Dr. Young, has since, in a modified form, been revived by Sir Everard Home and Bauer, in this country; and by Prevost and Dumas, on the Continent. We have never been able to perceive the separation of the colouring matter, which our countrymen have described as taking place in a few seconds after the particles have escaped from the body; nor can we, with Prevost and Dumas, consider the par- ticles as prominent in the centre. "The particles of the Blood must unquestionably be classed amongst the objects most difficult to examine with the microscope; partly from the variations of form, to which their yielding structure renders them liable; but, still more, from their being transparent, and composed of a substance which, as Dr. Young has remarked, is pro- bably not uniform in its refractive power. " These causes of error we have endeavoured to coun- teract, by varying the mode of observation. We have viewed the particles both wet and dry, both as opaque and as transparent objects, under every variety of power and light; and we lay no stress on observations which have not been confirmed by frequent repetition. " To us, the particles of human Blood appear to consist of circular flattened transparent cakes; which, when seen singly, appear to be nearly, or quite, colourless. Their edges are rounded, and, being the thickest part, occasion