OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION I. OF PART I. which are the most strongly marked by the peculiarities of the Caucasian or Arab-European division ; and, at the close, those which bear a resemblance to the Ethiopian Sculls. For the development of this interesting subject, the Student is referred t^ the excellent works of Dr. Pritchard and Dr. Edwards. The Sculls of the Flat-Head Indians, from the neigh- bourhood of the Colombia River, are very dissimilar from the Sculls of the Caribs : the depression of the Forehead is carried to the utmost extent, and is accompanied by a remarkable projection and breadth of the Occiput. In most of these Sculls, in addition to the flatness of the Forehead, there is a want of symmetry, suggesting the idea that the upper part of the Head had been pushed obliquely to one side. The number of Wormian Bones is also worthy of notice. In several of the Specimens, they are seen in the Coronal as well as in the Lambdoidal Sutures. Both of these circumstances favour the idea of the deformity of these Sculls being, to a great degree, the result of an artificial process. It is stated, that indivi- duals of this race have been by no means deficient in intelligence. Most of the Sculls of the South-Sea Islanders were procured by Samuel Stuchbury, Naturalist to the Pacific Pearl Company, and were nearly all of them taken from Mora'is, or ancient places of sepulture. The Cerebral Cavity is in general of good size; but in some of the spe- cimens there is a remarkable preponderance of the back part of the Head : the Lower Jaws, where present, are well formed. Most of the Sculls exhibit a want of symme- try, which is of precisely the same character in all the specimens; and consists in the flattening of the lateral and back part of the Head; in most instances, on the right side, with a corresponding projection on the left: it is attributed to the unvarying position in which the mother nurses the child, with its head supported by her hand. The inhabitants of Huaheine are described as possessed of good intellect, and easily taught to read and