OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION I. OF PART I. further, imagining that the idea was considered extravagant. Professor Oken was not deterred by any such considera- tion, but speedily published a sketch of his views, in an article printed at Jena in 1807; and he gave a much fur- ther development of his ideas in two French articles, the one published in 1820, and the other in 1821. The Head, he observes, is a continuation of the Vertebral Column, and exhibits four Vertebrae, complete both in the number and conformation of their parts, and resembling the Dorsal Vertebras in their bodies and arches. In the Cranium there are, in fact, three bodies; namely, one in the Os Oc- cipitis, and two in the Sphenoid. The Parietal and Frontal Bones are called in to complete the two latter Vertebras. His fourth Vertebra belongs to the Face, and consists of the Vomer, which represents the body of the bone, together with the two Nasal Bones. He considers each of these Vertebrae as destined to the Organs of the Senses; and, in consequence, designates them by the following names—the Auricular, the Lingual, the Ocular, and the Nasal. Spix, a Naturalist of Bavaria, has also taken up the views of Oken, but has given them a development of his own, in a work entitled Cephalogenesis. Not satisfied with finding an analogy between the Vertebrae and the Bones of the Head, which he considers as formed essen- tially of three Vertebrae, he is carried away by his attach- ment to Homology, or the doctrine of the unity of forma- tion, to seek, in the construction of the Head, nothing less than the repetition of the Body and its limbs; the Arms re-appearing in the Zygomatic Arches, and the Legs in the Lower Jaw. It is not however with such fanciful specu- lations that the analogy in question is to stand or fall. That great master of Comparative Anatomy and Physiology, Baron Cuvier, with equal accuracy and caution, reject- ing the use of terms whose misapplication or perversion from their original signification might excite false ideas, simply expresses the fact, when, in speaking of the Mammalia, he says, that their Crania are subdivided into three cinc- tures, of which the anterior is formed by the Frontal and