OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION XI. OF PART I. The number so modified continues to increase: some of the particles lose their flattened form, and appear to be contracted into a more compact figure; but their outline continues to appear irregular and notched, and their surfaces seem mammillated. Hewson and Falconar appear to have accurately noticed this change; and have compared the particles in this state to little mulberries. When more time has elapsed, most of the particles lose this irregularity of surface, assume a more or less per- fectly globular form, and reflect the image of an inter- posed opaque body, as a convex lens would do. Some of the particles resist these changes much more obstinately than others. " If a small quantity of Blood be placed between two pieces of glass, which are afterwards pressed together with some force, several of the particles, however recent the blood, will be materially altered : the smooth circular outline is lost, and, as in the former case, they appear notched: a few seem to be considerably extended by the compression. When the surface of the particles has in this way been broken into, the ruptured part exhibits an adhesive property, capable of gluing it to another par- ticle, or to the surface of the glass; but the particles in their natural state, though often drawn together, or applied to the surface of the glass by the force of attrac- tion, seem to be nearly, or quite, void of adhesiveness. " There is scarcely any fluid, except Serum, which can be mixed with the Blood without more or less altering the form of its particles; probably in consequence of some chemical change. In this general result, our observations accord with those of Hewson and Falconar, whose ex- periments of this kind were very numerous. We differ in some of the particulars; but we reserve the detail of these for a future occasion. There is no fluid which, when mixed with the blood, produces a more remarkable and sudden alteration in the appearance of the particles, than water does. With a rapidity which, in spite of every precaution, the eye almost invariably in vain attempts to