OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF PART I. in some important particulars, from those of the Anatomists above enumerated, the following extract is given from a translation of his unpublished Memoire, presented to the Academy of Sciences of Paris on the 24th March 1828. " The Spinal Marrow is composed of two symmetrical portions, in each of which we perceive three distinct bundles or columns; an anterior, a posterior, and a middle. On their exterior are two orders of insertions of Nerves; and within each of the lateral halves which are united by a commissure of Medullary matter, we find a line of Cineri- tious matter. The size of the Spinal Marrow is most con- siderable at the upper part of the cervical portion, where it takes the name of Medulla Oblongata, and presents several distinct enlargements. The most important of these are, the Corpora Pyramidalia, which decussate at the upper part; the CorporaOlivaria, the CorporaRestiformia; and the Corpora Pyramidalia Posteriora. " One part of these enlargements is prolonged into the brain, another into the Corpora Quadrigemina, and a third into the Cerebellum. " The Corpora Pyramidalia Anteriora are the only parts in which there is an evident decussation of fibres. " The Cerebellum is the continuation of the Corpus Restiforme; which meeting with,and confounding itself with, the bundle of nervous matter designated by the name of Processus ad Testes, and with the larger bundle proceeding from the Tuber Annulare, forms a mass, at first somewhat rounded, but which soon expands into a fibrous plain, which extending, from within, outwards, reaches the Cineri- tious matter at the circumference; when, expanding itself both above and below into a white and very fine layer, it lines the Cineritious matter, accommodating itself to all its folds, which are applied to the two surfaces of the large plain formed by the concurrence of the three nervous bundles, as already mentioned. " One part of this plain is reflected backwards, from without, inwards, towards the median line, and, with its fellow, forms, within the substance of the Processus Vermi-