OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION I. OF PART I. Ethmoid Bones, the middle by the Parietal and Sphenoid, and the posterior by the Occipital. Between the Occipital, Parietal, and Sphenoid Bones, are interposed the Temporal Bones, which, in part, properly belong to the Face. Both Blainville and Adelon adopt the idea of the Cranium being composed of a series of articulations, which, though anchy- losed together, are to be regarded as false Vertebrae, com- posed, like the true, of bodies, arches, and symmetrical appendages. Blainville considers that these false Vertebrae are four in number, and that there are four pairs of Cerebral Nerves corresponding to them. The idea of the composition of the bony parts of the Head upon the same type with the Vertebrae has, in an espe- cial manner, attracted the attention of Professor Geoffroy St. Hilaire, who has carried it further than any one else who has laboured on the subject. This Anatomist, as a preliminary step, has sought to ascertain what are the essential parts of a Vertebra. In this research he is guided by the observation of the formation of these bones in the Foetus, and of their permanent state in animals lower than man in the Zoological scale. He considers that every Vertebra which is completely developed, consists of two rings, connected by an intermediate Nucleus, upon which they are fixed or implanted. One of these rings, viz. the posterior or upper, is sub- servient to the protection of a portion of the Nervous or Medullary System, and the other to the Sanguineous or Circulatory System. The intermediate nucleus, or Azygos piece, Professor Geoffroy designates by the appellation of Cycleal. The two rings he considers to be each formed of two pairs of bones. In the Dorsal or Posterior Ring, he calls the pair nearest to the intermediate nucleus, the Perial; and the more remote, the Epial: and in the Anterior or In- ferior Ring, the two next to the Cycleal portion, the Paraal, and the more remote, the Cataal. He next seeks the num- ber of primitive pieces which enter into the composition of the Scull, including the Bones of the Face. Taking into