OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION I. OF PART I. Branches, proceeding from the centre of the Nervous System, rather than this centre itself, are directly con- cerned. Though more or less closely brought together upon the median line, they are not therefore necessarily to be considered as the continuation of the central stem, either in function or structure. Were the Nerves of Smell, instead of being directed to a single organ on the median line, to be distributed to two symmetrical organs more or less widely separated from each other, as is the case per- haps in some Insects, we should no more think of seeking in the elements of the Nose for the repetition of the mode of formation proper to the Vertebrae, than we are disposed to do in those cases of monstrosity in which the lower or posterior extremities happen to be united, so as to consti- tute a sort of tail. It is unnecessary, on the present occa- sion, to push the inquiry farther, or to multiply the facts which might be adduced for its illustration. What has been said, proceeds from no wish to disparage the princi- ple ; but is designed rather to stimulate to its legitimate investigation, and to point out the danger which those incur who are directed in their investigations by the desire of establishing a preconceived hypothesis. The Crania, from No. 100 to 124 inclusive, have been added to the Collection at different times, and, for the most part, are not known to have any particular individual interest attached to them. If not all actually English, they are at least believed to be European, and conse- quently to belong to the Caucasian variety of the Human Race. So far as their limited number will admit, it has been attempted to arrange them in such a manner, as to shew, that within the range of one variety may be found not only that form which may be considered as most strictly typical of the particular variety, but also numerous deviations from it, through which it approaches, -by almost insensible gradations, to those forms which are most strongly characteristic of the other varieties. Thus, in the first part of this short series, are placed those Crania