OHSEK V ATIONS ON SLCTlON I. OF PART 1. his reckoning some pieces which permanently retain the form of Cartilage, he makes the numher amount to sixty- three ; which being divided by nine, the number of pri- mitive pieces ;n each Vertebra, lie obtains seven as the number of Vertebrae entering into the composition of the Head and Face. By an elaborate examination of the Bones of the Head in various animals, but more especially in the crocodile, he endeavours to shew that this theoretical view is confirmed by the testimony of facts. The seven supposed Vertebra? he designates by the following names: the 1st, he calls the Labial; the 2d, the Nasal; the 3d, the Ocular; the 4th, the Vertebra of the Cerebrum ; the 5th, the Vertebra of the Corpora Quadrigemina; the Gth, the Auricular Vertebra; and the 7th, the Vertebra of the Cerebellum. The details of this distribution must be here suppressed, as too long to be in- troduced into this Volume. Although the existence of a certain analogy between the Bones of the Cranium and the Vertebrae, not merely in their use, but in their structure, must be admitted by all who will carefully examine the subject, various objections suggest themselves with reference to most of the modes in which it has been attempted to exhibit the application of the principle. It will not be necessary here to do more than offer a few remarks on the system just described, as the result of the labours of GeofFroy St. Hilaire. It is not merely on account of the celebrity of its Author, of the pains which he has taken in tracing its minute details, and of the superior attention which it has obtained in the form both of opposition and of support, that the theory of the distinguished Author of the Anatomie Philosophique is here selected for comment; but, being the most full and com- prehensive, some of the remarks relating to it will be found applicable to the other theories. In the first place, the Professor's mode of reasoning seems not to be altogether exempt from this important defect, that many of the steps of his argument want the support of proof. The ingenious theory of the formation of the Vertebrae, originally com-