f OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION XI. OF PART I. follow, they change their flattened for a glohular form; which, from the brightness and distinctness of the images which they reflect, as convex lenses, must be nearly perfect. " Contrary to Sir Everard Home's remark, that the par- ticles in their perfect and entire state are not disposed to arrangement, it is in this state only that we have found them run into combinations, which they assume with con- siderable regularity. In order to observe this tendency of the particles, a small quantity of Blood should be placed between two slips of glass. In this way, the attraction exerted by one of the pieces of glass counteracts that of the other; and the mutual action of the particles on each other is not interfered with, as is necessarily the case when only one slip is employed. " When the Blood of man, or of any other animal having circular particles, is examined in this manner, considerable agitation is, at first, seen to take place amongst the par- ticles ; but, as this subsides, they apply themselves to each other by their broad surfaces, and form piles or rouleaux, which are sometimes of considerable length. These rou- leaux often again combine amongst themselves; the end of one being attached to the side of another, producing, at times, very curious ramifications. " When Blood containing elliptical particles is examined in the same manner, it exhibits a not less remarkable, but very different mode of arrangement. Though' they are applied to each other by some part of their broad sides, they are not so completely matched one to another as is the case with circular particles; and instead of placing themselves at right angles to the glass, with their edges pi-esented to its surface, they are generally seen nearly parallel to it; one particle partially overlaying another, and their long diameters being nearly in the same line. The lines thus formed are subjected to a kind of secondary combination, in which several assume to themselves a common centre, whence they diverge in radii. It is by no means rare to sec several of these foci in the field of the