OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION IV. OF 1'A HT I. formis, a commissure analogous to the Corpus Callosum of the Cerebrum. " Thus the three processes which constitute the Cms Cerebelli penetrate the Medullary Matter of the Cerebel- lum ; and, lining it with a surface of white matter, are enveloped by it, as the stem of a young Champignon is by its cap. Reil had already seen a part of this arrangement. " The Corpora Quadrigemina receive from the Medulla Oblongata two bundles of Fibres, which are easily traced to the Corpora Olivaria. " Lastly, the Cerebrum receives, through the interven- tion of its Crura, the remaining bundles of Fibres which enter into the composition of the Medulla. Each Crus Cerebri is composed of two distinct bundles of Fibres. One of these is the continuation of one of the Anterior Pyramids of the Medulla Oblongata; which, decussating with its fellow at the upper part, and passing from behind, forwards, crosses at right angles the transverse Fibres of the Tuber Annulare, before which they are so disposed as to form a sort of groove. The Posterior bundle, of which I have next to speak, is lodged in this groove, and completes the Cylinder of the Crus Cerebri. " This Posterior bundle of the Crus Cerebri, proceeding from the posterior part of the Medulla without decussating with its fellow, passes over the superior transverse Fibres of the Tuber Annulare on which its inferior surface rests, whilst its superior forms the floor of the fourth Ventricle. " Throughout the whole extent of the Crus, properly so called, these two bundles, though more and more closely approximating, remain nevertheless distant, being sepa- rated by a black substance, the Locus Niger. They proceed nearly parallel to each other, till they diverge in the Corpora Striata and Thalami Nervorum Opticorum; and form a plain, of which all the rays tend towards the curved line which limits the Corpora Striata and Thalami on the outer side. " At this point, to which we have traced the radiating Fibres of the Crus Cerebri, we find the commencement of