OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION III. OF PART I. more particularly on those fluids which possess an alka- line tendency, the Veins, on the other hand, admit the acids and substances allied to them. The obscurity which involves the question respecting the functions of these two sets of vessels has been unwittingly and unavoidably increased by the operation of various poison- ous substances having been employed as the test of the action and energy of these vessels. The experiments of Dr. Addison and John Morgan, which point to another system, the nervous, as the medium through which poisons produce their effects, whilst they invalidate many experiments and arguments, both of the supporters and opponents of Venous Absorption, leave the question at issue between them in statu quo. Numerous communications between the Lymphatic and Venous Systems, besides those which take place at the termination of the Thoracic Duct and Right Trunk, have long been admitted by many Anatomists, not only in the larger, but also in the smaller branches. These commu- nications have, however, been much more minutely ex- amined and insisted upon, in consequence of the recent labours of Fohmann, Lowth, and Lippi. It is attempted, by the help of these communications, to explain the cause of discordance between Physiologists respecting the func- tion of Absorption; and to carry the question in favour of those who maintain the doctrines of Hunter, as to the sole agency of the Lymphatic System in the performance of this process. The question, however, cannot be settled in this man- ner ; since, on the supposition that the presence of ab- sorbed substances in the Veins depends on these vessels receiving some branches of the Lymphatic System, it is manifest that the indications of the presence of these sub- stances ought to be considerably stronger in the Lympha- tics than in the Veins; but it has been repeatedly shewn, that, with respect to many absorbed substances, this is by no means the case. If, to avoid this objection, it be urged that the short Lymphatics which empty themselves into the