OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION III. OF PART I. " The Inner Coat, when completely detached from other structures, and presenting the appearance of a very thin, uniform, and almost transparent Membrane, is also, by the aid of the microscope, seen to be composed of Fibres, which are extremely delicate, smooth, and uniform, but very tor- tuous and matted together, in the form of an intricate Plexus."—See Philosophical Magazine a?id Annals, Aug. 1827. If muscularity be denied to the Arteries, this faculty must, a. fortiori, be foreign to the Veins. Yet, in some animals, if not in man, the Venae Cavae, just before they terminate in the right Auricle, possess a few Fibres, having both the function and structure of Muscle. Dr. Knox has frequently witnessed the proof of this fact, in the shark. The testimony of numerous observers concurs to prove, that the principal branches of the Absorbent System are possessed of a certain degree of contractile power; yet if muscularity be denied to the Arteries and Veins, itr can scarcely be attributed to the Lymphatic Vessels. The importance of these last vessels, with respect to the func- tion of absorption, continues to present a question by which Physiologists are divided: some consider that it is by these vessels alone that absorption is effected; others, that this function is the joint office of the Lymphatics and the Veins, but that it more particularly belongs to the latter. Those who are desirous of examining this question, will find its merits discussed by Cruickshank, Magendie, Tiedmann and Gmelin, Fodera, Leonardo Franchini, and more especially by Fiscinus and Seiller, who have not only given an elaborate historical review of the con- troversy, but have also added numerous experiments of their own. The question is likewise examined in the " Editor's Thesis de Absorbendi Functione; Edinburgh, 1823;" in which some facts are also brought forward, which make it appear not altogether improbable that these vessels are subservient to a process of separation; that, although some fluids may be carried by either set of vessels in- discriminately, other substances are restricted to one of them; in fact, that whilst the Lymphatic Vessels act