OBSERVATIONS ON SECTION VI. OF PART I. It is almost needless to add, that, from the time of Bar- tholin to the present day, the Liver has not ceased to afford matter more or less liable to discussion, both to Phy- siologists and Pathologists. It is well known, that no organ has excited a greater variety of opinions, with respect to its office in the system, than the Spleen; and it is by no means impossible, that we are still wholly unacquainted with its function: yet the Editor is inclined to retain the opinion, which he has ad- vocated in a Paper printed in the LXXth Number of the Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal; namely, that the Spleen performs, in the animal system, a similar part to that which tubes and valves-of-safety do in various kinds of chemical and mechanical apparatus; and tends to ob- viate any inconvenience which might arise from a sudden disturbance of the proportion between the capacity of the vascular system and the fluids which circulate in it. Such disturbances must be frequently induced, by various causes to which animals are continually exposed; and which operate more powerfully than the elasticity of the vessels alone can compensate for, and more rapidly than absorption, secretion, and excretion can, in every case, counteract them. The reasons which he adduced for this opinion were drawn from the structure and situation of the Spleen; from the different appearances which it assumes, according to the circumstances under which death had taken place ; from the causes which derange the organ; from the effects which it produces on the system when deranged ; and also from the result of ex- periments made upon inferior animals. He has since learnt, that somewhat similar views had been advanced by Dr. Rush of Philadelphia, and by Dr. Broussais of Paris. They have subsequently received additional sanction from experiments detailed in the second edition of Magendie's " Physiology," as well as from the assent of other authors. The Spleen may perform some office besides that which is here attributed to it; but the one contended for by Tiedmann and Gmelin, namely, that it confers the pro-