( xiv ) Class and an Order. In the Twelfth Section, the Vesicular Worms are taken without any reference to the organ in which they are developed, and independently of any other consideration than that of their belonging to a branch of Zoology which is connected with Human Pathology. The introduction of the presence of Hydatids, as the characte- ristic of an order, refers to the pathology of the organ in which they exist; and the Preparations comprised in this order are designed to illustrate the derangements induced by the development of these bodies, rather than then- natural history and habits. In insisting on the necessity of distinguishing Vesicular Worms, or true Hydatids, from Cysts properly so called, it is by no means, as has been pretended, a mere verbal quibble which is excited. The want of this distinction has led to a great and palpable con- fusion of objects, essentially differing from each other in their structure, nature, and progress. The absolute ne- cessity for this distinction remains unaltered, by the ad- mission or rejection of the parasitical character of either or of both. In printing the Catalogue, the Tabular form has been chosen, as the most convenient for reference, and at the same time the most concise and intelligible. In the first co- lumn is placed the number which refers to the Preparation. In the next is the description of the Preparation. This though in general necessarily short, is sufficient to point out the object which the Specimen is designed to illustrate. When the Preparation is of more than usual interest, the description is given at greater length. The next column contains a reference to the fuller details of the case. The greater number of these references are made to the manuscript histories of the Hospital Cases and Inspections ; of which there are now thirteen volumes, most of which have been collected in the course of the last three years. In the same column are placed references to printed books, when the Preparations have been described or alluded to in published Works. When the Preparation