18 much. Great pain may be endured in neuralgia with less risk, than little pain, in inflammation, where there is a change of organization. Actions merely involving sensation, the forma- tion of heat, and perhaps all secretions, do not necessarily alter the organization, (and seldom do so, unless carried to a great degree, and continued long). Sensation, however, may become an exciting cause of inflammation. In one respect, all the parts of the body relatively con- sidered, are equally strong, that is alike fitted, and able to perform their office, and bear the action of those stimuli, which are natural to them. Yet it is notorious, that inflam- mation of one part shall oftener kill that part, and sink the system, than inflammation of another part would do. This is not from the effect of simple depression; for wTe may in inflammation of the testicle, have, from the sympathetic influ- ence on the stomach, great depression; or we may produce that by tartar emetic, but shall not have the same dangerous conse- quences resulting, as from inflammation of the small intestines. Still this depression may, and must have a certain degree of influence. One part can bear a greater degree of particular kinds of stimuli, and of action than another, yet we could not say that a part which sunk under the effect of a small stimulus of a particular kind, had positively low vitality. Some parts have, by disease, great sensation produced, and these, ceteris paribus, sink soonest, when inflammatory action is present, and essentially connected with the sensibility. Another cause of sinking, is the want of support from other parts, or the advantage of sympathy of communication. In this way, the intestines, which are in one respect insulated and loose, do not derive in disease support from the neigh- bouring parts; and the extremities, although in health, they, when wounded, bleed as freely and feel as sensibly as the trunk, yet in disease may derive less support than parts nearer the centre, or larger, and more connected with the trunk. Diseases of a complex nature affecting the organiza- tion, and injuring or destroying the function, do seem by the destruction of function, to injure the organ more than the same degree of inflammation of a simple part would do, and