4 1 he exhausting or injurious effects ol action, are not neces- sarily proportioned to its degree or intensity, compared to the natural power or energy of the part, but depend on many other circumstances. The very supply and continuation of energy is connected with action. The natural action of a part, or of the system, is necessary to the formation of energy, and if this action be too much, or too little, energy is either exhausted, or not sufficiently furnished. If, on the other hand, the action be very different in kind from the natural action, it not only exhausts, but is more or less incapable of producing energy, the formation of energy being an essential part of the natural action. If action cease, animal life ceases also ; if life cease, action ceases. There can be no action with- out the principle of vitality or energy, and that again, could not be produced, without an act or operation of the animal system. A very little action then of one kind, may be fatal, or injure a part more than a much greater degree of another kind. Action, considered apart from its degree, is injurious, and productive of weakness, in proportion as it affects function. Excessive action of a kind which greatly, and essentially impairs, the natural condition and function, exhausts in a double way. This is illustrated by different species of inflam- mation. It is a great mistake to suppose, that the degree or intensity of action, is the chief point for attention, or that any useful system of pathology can be founded solely on that principle. A part may have its action so affected, as to give rise to a state of disorder, and yet it may not be correct to say, that the action is too high or too low, although exhaustion or injury may follow. We must also attend to the sympathies produced, and their effects. Each particular class of animals, has its own peculiar mode of living or acting, but each individual of the same class, has some special modification, which is called his constitution, or his natural and healthy mode of acting, and the same holds true with regard to individual organs. Animal organization when possessed of vitality, is susceptible of the impression of certain agents, in one respect foreign to itself, and which are called stimuli, and the result of the application of certain