or of diminished action in the vessels, for the two must be con- nected according to the theory. The increased action is mani- fested, not by rapid motion, but by enlargement of canal, and activity of other parts of the function. When we put the theory of diminished action, or stagnation in the capillaries to the test of accordance with the best methodus medendi, we find that it cannot stand. The effects of bleeding may be claimed by both friend and foe, as supporting opposite opinions, but it is quite impossible for the advocates of increased action to reconcile their theory with the supposed good effects of stimulants in active inflammation. The supporters of diminished action, on the other hand, triumph in the power of their remedies, and tell us, that turpentine, heat, wine, spirits, &c. applied to the inflamed foot of a frog, renew the motion, and cure the disease. I feel entitled to say, that in numerous and repeated experi- ments, this did not happen. If the blood moved slowly, or even had stopped in some vessels, the heat of the speculum made it for a time move, or the struggle of the animal made it do so more effectually. But the effect was transient, and that of spirits, laudanum, turpentine, &c. often very little, if any at all; and in no case do we find that these do produce the same rapid effect of quickening the circulation that they do in health; and often when the inflammation is decided, they have no effect at all. Turning from these experiments, which are so very little in favour of the theory, that were I a sup- porter of it, I should hesitate to admit them into my argu- ment, I proceed to the conclusion, that if we are to consider the best remedy to be that which most effectually renews, at least for a time, the motion of the blood, I know of none better than struggling, and am quite content to rest the truth of the theory of diminished capillary action, on the conse- quences of moving an inflamed part, and will indeed have little objection to rest it also on the result of mere stimulat- ing applications to the inflamed part. I have heard of an inflamed foot being made worse, but never of being cured by dancing. Were inflammation to consist in either debility or mere increased action of the capillaries, or in any other simple state which fancy could fix upon, it ought always to be cured