15 life, it follows, that it may exist with other modifications of action, called disease, else it should always either destroy that disease, or kill the patient, yet it neither is a panacea, nor, unless pushed to a great extent, is it fatal. What holds true of mercury, as a partial illustration, holds true in the general principle. Agents ought in a similar state of the system always to produce a similar effect. But the impression and sensation may be different, and sympathies may vary, so as to alter the state of the system, and render the effects of a medicine very different the twentieth time it is given, from that produced for nineteen times before. There are cases where a particular action having been long performed, under a certain impres- sion of body or mind, that comes to be in a manner natural, and if a chain of other actions have been associated with this, it is very difficult to break that, if the original action be not also stopped. It is on this principle that a very small stimulus or slight excitement, often is rendered sufficient to produce a great effect, particularly when that effect is mani- fested not in the part directly acted on, but indirectly, as if the part were merely a spring, which now, however slightly touched, sets the rest in motion. With the exception of these cases, the general rule is, that stimuli, in order to produce the same effect, require by repetition, to be increased more or less, according to circumstances, and ultimately, very large doses may be taken, when the effect is simple and direct. ^ e are told, that a smaller impression after a greater is not readily perceived. This is true with regard to similar, but not different or opposite sensations, nor even to the same, when the action of the part is quite changed. It is not true with regard to excitement and action; for a small stimulus, particularly of the same nature with the former, adds to the effect. It may be said, that if a person be exhausted by action, another stimulus should make him worse, and it should be so according to some systems, and is really true, with respect to the continuation of the same stimulus in many instances. If fatigued to exhaustion, any farther exertion would sink