Hippocrates, that wounds of the temporal muscle were pecu- liarly apt to produce convulsions; and notwithstanding the aphorism, that convulsions arising from wounds were mortal, attempts were made to avoid the fatal result by free division of the parts. It is not easy to say who first proposed ampu- tation as a cure, which certainly must be more effectual than any more partial division. Many have adopted this proposal, and Larrey speaks strongly in its favour. But like most other infallible remedies, it has not stood the test of experience; and we learn from Sir James M'Gregor, that even Larrey, its warmest supporter, had his confidence in it diminished, and admitted, that after the battle of Dresden, the deaths pro- ceeded chiefly from tetanus. It also failed in the British army, and I believe I speak the sentiments of all experienced surgeons, when I say, that it is so little to be depended on, that we are not warranted to resort to it. For my own part, although I have known amputation repeatedly performed, in no one instance has it proved effectual. The most that I can say in favour of operations of any kind is, that I have known mild and chronic tetanus go off after the removal of a liga- ture from parts covered with fascia, but cannot determine whether the fall and removal of the ligature had any share in the recovery. Second, The application of the potential, but especially the actual cautery, by destroying completely the extremities of the affected nerves, might be expected to be at least as useful as amputation; and whilst I admit this, it will appear from what I have said already, that I have no confidence in the remedy. Third', Still less can we depend on the application of blis- ters, turpentine, and other irritating substances to the surface. We, indeed, read of instances of recovery after both the second and third plans, but never meet with them. Fourth, Various remedies have been proposed, and I believe none deserves more confidence than the exhibition of purga- tives. When I say so, I do not mean to insinuate that they can be l'elied on, but merely that they do more good than other remedies, particularly in chronic tetanus, as it is not