If. | | , 497 accidents, the brain and medulla spinalis, those large and important masses of the nervous system, may resist more, and suffer less, than the rest of the system, and begin slowly to extend a salutary influence to other parts. The heart, which long retains its power, and whilst capable of being acted on by the nervous system, also in its turn acts decidedly on it, regains more power, and the two systems operating on each other in a salutary way, restore gradually the power and the action of the whole frame, unless every important part have been so sunk and subdued, or rather extinguished in its vita- lity, as to preclude rallying. In many cases, the system may rally, if merely left to itself, and no exertion, even of any individual part, be permitted, and especially if every farther cause of exhaustion, such as pain, be removed. Where, how- ever, there is no indication of rallying, these particular parts must be excited and stimulated in a cautious way, so as to induce thus a more general activity. Cordials must be given to act on the stomach, heat applied to the surface to act on the cutaneous nerves, and the general treatment proposed in shock must be resorted to. When the system does rally, it may slowly return to health, and no one organ may fall into disorder. But the restoration may be attended with in*egu- lar, as well as imperfect and improper action, and we may have not only local or general excitement, but complicated sympathies, so that the patient does not, from the first moment of rallying, proceed to greater vigour and better health, but he turns at once, or quickly, into a state of fever or disease, and this is often called, very incorrectly, reaction. It is by some considered as favourable, but it is by no means neces- sary for recovery. It merely indicates that the system is yet able to live. This leads me next to consider the term “ reaction.” If we excite or irritate the extremity of a nerve, we influence the origin of that nerve, and may thereby have an increased effect produced on its extremity, and vice versa. The doc- trine of sympathy (see pages 6 and 7) can explain this, and the effect may properly be called a reaction of the one on the v other. Whether we confine our view to a single nerve, or 2 k