439 its extremity, the ligature would be driven off by the vis a tergo. But the impetus is much less than was once imagined, and when the ligature does slip, it is from the artery not having been fairly tied; perhaps it was not tied at all, but only the sheath, or possibly the adventitious lymphatic mouth it obtains. To prevent this accident, it was seriously pro- posed to stitch the ligature to the mouth of the vessel. It had been better to have advised to pull that mouth distinctly out and tie it fairly. Let this be done, and we need have no fear of the ligature being knocked off. Including a nerve in the ligature gives much pain and irri- tation, and also keeps it longer on, for nerves resist its action more than an artery, that is, are not so soon suppurated and absorbed. This may cause unhealthy suppuration opening the vessel. But this is not all, for even if no injury resulted to the artery, the including of a nerve, that, for instance, which crosses obliquely the face of the femoral artery, is productive of mischief to the parts supplied by this constricted nerve, and the limb is more apt to suffer. If thei’e be, even in a well performed operation, danger of mortification, must not that be increased by the unnecessary division, and still more by the consti'iction of oxie or more nerves ? The forxxi of the ligature is another repixted cause of fail- ure, and particular dix’ections have been given to have it round, equally applied, a regular knot formed, and the tight- ness neither over much nor too little. We fixxd the ligature applied, or to speak correctly, misapplied, in every possible way, in amputation or extix’pation of tumours. Some are thick, others slender, some pulled tight, others slack enough, and yet haemox’rhage is a rare occurrence. The most slo- venly, clumsy operatox*, seldom loses a patient from this cause, if he do not either miss the artery altogether, and tie its sheath, or include only a corner of the vessel. In aneu- rism, haemorrhage is a frequent sequel of the operation, even in the best hands; and we must therefore attx'ibute more to the state of the artery, and of the parts, than to the state and size ot the ligature. Large ligatures are found to be sooner detached than smaller ones, and may therefore, it may be #