.048 and sometimes, also, blit more rarely, with increased sensibility, and the removal of acid is useful; and so is mild diet in moderate quantity. The action of the stomach has much influence on other parts, and often on the brain, which, in its turn, acts very extensively. But, perhaps, in many cases, where the stomach is supposed to be in fault, the original evil is in the nervous system. Certain medicines called tonics and stimulants, have been advised, in order to improve the func- tion of the stomach, and thereby prtfmote health. These are always safe if they do not increase the frequency of the pulse, or produce some other effect on the system, or on the local disease, so marked as to indicate the impropriety of persever- ing in them. Those bitters, or combinations, which are also laxative, are found to be useful, such as rhubarb with magne- sia, or soda with Angostura bark, or compound tincture of gentian, infusion of cascarilla, or of quassia, or of bark : or chalybeates, or quinine, are often serviceable. The sulphuric acid is useful where it does not produce pain, or cause purging. Quinine alone, or combined with sulphate of iron, is a good medicine when it does not increase the frequency of the pulse, and if a little aloes be added, the bowels are kept regular. When the tongue is a little furred, but not very foul, a pint of decoction of sarsaparilla, taken daily, with a very mild laxa- tive, is often useful. Sarsaparilla is not so useless as some suppose, for it often promotes digestion, and also improves the appetite. A course of an aperient mineral water is fre- quently of service, both by the effect on the stomach and bowels, and also by the necessary change of air and of scene, and the abstraction of the mind from business. This last object is of great importance, for many disorders are brought on, and kept up, by harassment and anxiety of mind. Relief from care, and particularly when aided by pure air, regular exercise, and early hours, can often do more than any medi- cine. When the biliary system is in fault, the exhibition, for a short time, of a small quantity of the mildest form ol mercury, the blue pill, aided, if necessary, by a gentle aperi- ent, and, if possible, succeeded by a short course of Chelten-