281 then its safety is doubtful. Opiates, with or without diaphore- tics, according to the state of the surface, may be tried; but in severe cases we as yet know of no remedy. When recovery does take place, it seems to be rather owing to the compara- tive mildness of the attack, than to any efficient bar we have been able to put in the way of the ruin of the constitution. Before quitting this subject I must notice a particular form undei which we may require to treat a suppurating part, namely, that in which a sinus or fistula discharges the matter, lhis sinus, or canal, has very improperly been termed a sinous ulcer; it is merely a suppurating surface; it is both a secreting surface and an excretory duct. The sinus may be the only secreting surface, or there may, at its farther extremity, be a chamber or abscess of greater or smaller size. When the surface of this duct was thick and hard, it was called a fistula, lhat the orifice may be callous, and that even the whole extent ot the sinus may be a little thicker in its secreting sur- lace in one instance than in another is admissible; bu” that the whole tract becomes hard or callous, is altogether fanciful, and the old distinction therefore between sinus and fistula may e given up. The only way of curing this disease is by inducing the ulcerative process, in which granulations form or I do not believe it to be possible to effect adhesion by exciting inflammation of the surface. The means of causing ulceration as a step towards healing are various, and the indi- vidual one to be chosen must depend a good deal on the situa- tion of the disease. They consist in applying uniform and considerable pressure along the whole tract of the sinus, so as to keep its opposite surfaces steadily and firmly in contact with one another, at the same time that considerable excite- ment is given by the pressure; or by conjoining this with the injection of stimulating liquids, such as port wine, or by the introduction, for a time, of a seton, or by laying the sinus or sinuses open, and filling the wound from the bottom with lint. iei'e ls a species of gangrenous suppuration which may ° °w lom inJury> or arise from constitutional states. I ]lave a ieady noticed, that one part may be mortified or slomdiimr an anot ler suppurating, and a third in a state of gangren-