14o Purgatives are useful so far as employed for removin'* irritation from the bowels, or as they may be required for exciting and preserving the due action of these organs. But if given to occasion simple depletion, especially if trusted to for this purpose, when the lancet is proper, they deceive and do much harm. They may sink the patient, but never can cure any serious inflammation. Diaphoretics are likewise to be reprobated, in so far as they shall be employed as more than adjuncts. In a gentle way they may> in die wane of the disease, tend to complete the removal of the inflammatory fever, which by other means was subsiding; but I have never seen any good effect produced on the local disease, excepting in so far as their thus aiding the removal of the fever, may have an influence on the local disease, which was already going off. Another mean of lessening action, is by subducting the stimulus of heat. There are few inflammations in which this is not proper, but some require more caution than others. In external or subcutaneous inflammation it is useful, and may even be pushed pretty far; but in internal inflammation, it is generally sufficient to remove tbe sensation of heat, without producing that of cold. If we can make the patient feel cool, or of natural heat, it is all we wish. Lessening the action gieatly of the surface by cold, is in many cases, apt by sympathy, to throw increased action on the parts below. Hence it is doubtful in pleurisy; and although some have extolled it in enteritis and cephalitis, it is never to be lashly practised. In cutaneous and subcutaneous inflammation, it may be employed with advantage, although in the first of diese there is a prejudice against it, or wetting the part. It is usual to add some substance to water, as acetate of lead, muriate of ammonia, vinegar, &c., but these have little, if any, influence, except on the imagination of the patient; and cold water will be found to fulfil every useful purpose. The inflamed part is to be covered with cloths wet with this, and these are to be removed whenever the part becomes hot. Moi e powerful means have been proposed, as snow or pounded ice, but these are always hazardous, and if long persisted in, L