10 still more, and any stimulus which irritated or gave pain, would do so also, and from sympathy, the heart, stomach, &c. are much weakened, and the sentient system rendered uncom- fortable. Now some stimuli, such as cordials, do excite the sinking stomach, the feeble heart, and sooth the sentient system, and if the cause be removed, recovery soon takes place. In other cases, as for instance, in haemorrhage, before the secondary effects of that take place, cordials to a certain extent, are substitutes for the sudden subduction of stimulus, and counteract the fatal sinking. Wine does not produce a greater effect in mere weakness, or after haemorrhage, than in other cases, unless there be complications which render excitement different in its effects. Its narcotic and inebriating effects, vary also according to the state of the system. In some states of debility, as in certain fevers, and very often in the primary condition, induced by haemorrhage, much wine may be taken without inebriating. It is supposed that in a state of fasting wine produces soon as intoxicating, as well as an exciting effect, but whenever this appears to be the case, there are other circumstances which have a greater influence than the mere state of weakness induced by fasting. Cordials act on the extremities, and thence on the origins of the nerves. They induce a peculiar action in the functional nerves, allied to that produced by food on the stomach, more than on those for the preservation of life of the part, or for sensation, but partly on them too. They speedily affect the whole nervous system, and through it the sanguiferous. The effect is not mere stimulation or excitement, for heat and spiceries do not act so. They do harm whenever they excite the diseased action to greater activity. They do good when- ever there is a deficiency in those actions, which they aie capable of increasing, such as the evolution of heat, nervous excitation, circulation, &c. A certain kind of excitement is connected with the very production of nervous energy, and in those diseases where there is a defect of energy from mere exhaustion, or mere debility, they, by exciting in the stomach a natural action or function, do by sympathy, excite a more natural action elsewhere, but their effect is limited in this