151 blisters, particularly large ones, till we have, by previous venesection, allayed so far the action of the vascular system, as without this precaution, the additional excitement of the blister might aggravate the constitutional, and thus, indirectly, the local disease. There is another objection to the prema- tiue use of blisters, that if they do not operate beneficially on the part below, by lessening its'action, they may do harm, by producing an inflammation in the vicinity, which will likely become associated with the original one, and increase it. Piemature or early application of caustic to form issues, is still moie huitful. I he pain and violent action suddenly produced, almost always act on the principle of sympathy of association, and aggravate the disease. In deep inflamma- tions, of the spinal cord, for instance, this fact cannot be too much attended to. Blisters do good, partly by increasing the sanguinous determination to a more external and distant part, and partly by simply increasing action, and thereby diminishing, on the principle of the sympathy of equilibrium, that ot the part below. A sinapism is not so effectual as a lister, both because it is more temporary in its effects, and also because it does not produce the same degree of action and vascular determination ; nor does it produce any serous secretion. But when mere sensation is the prominent symp- tom, as, for instance, in spasmodic, and what are called ner- vous pains, they act as well as blisters, and more rapidly, whilst their irritation being soon over, is an advantage. This class of remedies can rarely be trusted to alone. Like cavalry in an engagement, it is more useful in completing, than com- mencing the defeat. It is useful, not merely in preventing a relapse, but it often effects what bleeding of itself could not do. It is peculiarly serviceable in those cases where the acute symptoms are removed, or the strong action allayed, but where without a continued counter-agent, we should have either immediate suppuration, or permanent change of structure pro- duced. Ihere are also cases where venesection has been altogether neglected, and has now become inadmissible, and vet the disease is curable, and that by the very means under ' consK eration. We often, for instance in pleurisy, find that