cannot make the part pale by pressure; for even if we could empty the very minute vessels which now contain red blood, which it would be difficult to do by any pressure, we could not remove the infiltration. But still at this confirmed stage we can press the blood out of the distinct arborescent vessels, which instantly fill again. At the highest degree we find the membrane altogether red, fleshy-]ooking, and rough, but soft, as if covered with small granulations, and the folds which are in contact adhere. We can make no more impression in this state on the colour, than we can on a piece of muscle; we may make the tint lighter, but that is all. It is not neces- sary, in order to prove that the capillary circulation does, or can go on, that we be able by pressure to make these vessels empty. I question if we can thus, during the natural state of the circulation in the thin web of the frog’s foot, empty the capillaries, even by a pressure which would destroy the part. If we insert a blowpipe into the iliac artery, when the web is inflamed, and the blood apparently motionless, air passes by other vessels, and is extricated under the cuticle of the web. II we employ mercury, it does not flow into the vessels where the blood is stagnant, but it finds its way into other vessels not well seen before. If we proceed farther, and inquire whether there may not be a fallacy in our microscopic experi- ments which seem to establish the existence of stagnation in the capillaries, I believe we shall more than doubt their accu- racy. For I must, after having brought forward those which appear to corroborate the doctrine, next state that I have been able, though not in every instance, to detect, when I thought the motion had universally ceased, a set of vessels still carrying on circulation. I have seen this in the web of the frog, where a deeper set of small vessels seemed to be conveying blood, when the more superficial and distinct were motionless. If the inflamed intestine of a rabbit be spread out under the microscope, we still see a set of vessels in which the blood moves. Indeed, a total stagnation of the blood seems incom- patible with the existence of the part for any length of time; but a retarded motion does assuredly exist in at least a very considerable proportion of the extreme vessels. This, how-