228 place in them, but it does in the vicinity. The same holds true of the extremities. The fingers, &c. may perish at once, whilst the skin of the hand inflames, and then mortifies. When inflammation takes place after exposure to cold, it is generally from excitement, and a very low stimulus will pro- duce as high inflammation, compared to the powers of the part, and possibly as severe sensation, as boiling water would do on a healthy surface. There is a degree of cold so great as, if it do not kill the part, will at least prevent it from returning to a state of health. The mere disorder, produced by the great cold, acts as an exciting cause to inflammation, without the intervention of any subsequent stimuli. Were this not the case, a part might indeed be directly killed, but should never inflame, and then mortify even superficially, if properly treated. There is an inferior degree of cold, where, by keeping down action, we may get the part slowly to recover, without inflam- ing ; and a third degree, where, if we let the part alone, and only avoid heat, it will do well. In recoverable cases, it is the sudden increase of temperature or excitement which does the mischief. Larrey, who was in the memorable campaign of 1814, mentions, that although the cold was severe, his men did well, till all at once the thermometer rose many degrees, and then the sudden increase of heat excited inflammation. Even when no heat is applied directly to the part, there is a risk of excitement from the too rapid communication of action from the parts above, the temperature of which, therefore, ought rather to be kept down than increased. The inflam- mation is marked by tumefaction, redness, or rather purp e colour of the part, and severe burning pain, and feeling o stuffing, and weight, and prickling, such as a limb feels when it is said to be asleep. Then the skin becomes black, and gene- rally is dry, so that this, like the other species already noticed, has been called the dry gangrene. It is not unusual, neit er ought it to be unexpected, that the skin suffers more than the parts below. A considerable portion of integument may e completely sphacelated, when the muscles and other subjacen parts are alive. This is known by the power of motion am