rule, in general, to allow acute abscesses, seated in the cellular substance, to burst spontaneously: but when the abscess is formed beneath a fascia, or in immediate contact with a bone, or over a joint, or in such a situation as that it might readily burst into a cavity, or in an unfavour- able instead of a favourable way, or where its continuance or increase might be dangerous from pressure, it ought to be opened, as soon as fluctuation can be perceived. There is very little difficulty, when the abscess is subcutaneous, in deciding on the existence of matter; but it is very much the contrary when the muscular fascia is concerned. A slight degree of inflammation, or any tumefaction of the parts beneath this fascia, will render it very tense, giving a feeling of fluctuation. Few cases require more circumspection, on the part of a young practitioner, for, wrere an opening made, even if no bad consequences resulted, he might, although undeservedly, be blamed for his mistake. By examination he may ascer- tain the feeling to be that rather of elasticity than of fluctua- tion. A great part of the limb perhaps is swollen; were this occupied by matter, considerable pressure on one part should make a projection discernible by the hand applied to a more remote portion, or an impulse given at the one spot should produce the feeling of impinging, or of fluctuation at the other. When the fascia is merely distended by a swelling of the parts below, it feels elastic, rebounding on pressure at any particular part, but the circumstances just described do not take place. The swelling also and elastic tension come on more rapidly than in suppuration, and there is usually less redness of the skin. There is another case which may mislead us, namely, where the cellular substance over a fascia, that of the leg for instance, has, after some degree of inflammation, become packed or gorged with serous or lymphatic fluid. The feelino- is much the same as in the former case. The swelling superjacent to the fascia is acted on by it on the one hand, as well as by the distended skin on the other : here also the feeling is that of elasticity rather than of fluctuation; but both in this and in the former case, the practitioner, by pressing alter- nately on two distant points, may imagine that he detects a