25 4 should produce an increase of pain or of throbbing in the puit, with an exacerbation of the fever, we have begun some- what too soon. On the contrary, if the local uneasiness be not increased, if the pulse become rather less frequent, the heat ol the skin not preternaturally increased, the general feeling moie comfortable, and the action of the stomach be impioved, and hiccup (it it had come on) be suspended,—if, instead of being more restless, the patient be, if not sleepy, at least tranquil, wine is doing good. The dose is to be lepeated as soon as the patient feels a desire for it; and the quantity to be altogether given in twenty-four hours must, like the administration of a second dose, be regulated by the effects. If the patient become heated, fever increased, deli- rium produced, or the local disease accelerated under its exhibition, we are going too far. But so long as wine, on the contrary, produces agreeable and beneficial effects, we are to proceed. The quantity, then, to be given in a limited time must depend on the effect. Two glassfuls may in one case be sufficient in twenty-four hours ; in another two bottles may be taken in the same time. This, it may be said, is a very vague direction ; but I will be happy to find a better rule delivered, than, that we should be regulated entirely in the quantity of stimulus we offer by the effect of the stimulation. When wine by itself does not agree with the stomach, aro- matics with hot water may be added, or we may give diluted brandy, or any other form of alcohol better relished by the patient. In some of those cases, where wine is not yet admissible, or where it is only allowable in very small quan- tity, we may derive advantage from stimulants of a different description ; for instance, a bolus may be given of five or six grains of carbonate of ammonia, and double the quantity of musk with a sufficient quantity of conserve of roses. This may be repeated every three or four hours, and it is particularly required where the hiccup is troublesome. In almost every instance opium, in the form which agrees best with the patient, is indispensable. The rule to be given with regard to the quan- tity to be exhibited, and the frequency of the exhibition, is to allay pain, to prevent its renewal to a great degree, but not