467 and fastest near the ligature. For a little way below this, there can be no material diminution of supply, even for a moment, and very soon there is an increased quantity circu- lating there. But it is different with the limb below. If the femoral artery, for instance, be tied on account of popliteal aneurism, it is quite different with the leg and the thigh. The leg and foot are not supplied so freely as formerly by the direct circulation, and they are not so well supplied by anastomosis, at first, as the thigh near the ligature is. They are not destitute, but they are curtailed in their allowance of blood. There is, however, a greater promptitude of enlargement and transmission in some cases than in others, and a differ- ence in the effect of diminished circulation. In some, the tem- perature falls rapidly, particularly in the foot; in others, it does not fall for some hours, or not at all. The diminution of tem- perature announces both abridged supply of blood, and im- paired nervous power and action. It is, therefore, dangerous if it proceed far, and continue long, for the extreme parts die. It is usual, however, for the temperature to rise, and increased action to take place, whilst the power is not increased. This proceeds from the circumstance, that the trunk below the sac, or coming off from it, does not transmit blood, at least in its wonted degree, for it immediately begins to contract, and soon is found to become small. The collateral branches in the mean- time are enlarging, and in their tract there must be increased action, productive sometimes of gangrene. There is in the whole limb a new state of the circulation, a new distribution of vessels, but this is not permanent; for it is now ascertained, that although at first every branch be called on to do its utmost, yet presently many of these decrease again, whilst one or two continue to enlarge still more, and become trunks. Another circumstance connected with the operation is, that whilst there is an excitement and activity of all the branches, the sac does not escape. It still, as we have seen, receives some blood, but it propels it more slowly. The very languor of the cir- culation, which in one respect is beneficial, leads to a gorging of the sac, and if the inferior aperture become closed before the superior, this distention is farther increased. Add to this,