171 than in those cases where the inflammation originates in the cellular texture itself. Last of all, mortification may be a termination, and this will be afterwards considered. A mixed termination may arise, where there is much exposure of subjacent parts, by sloughing of one portion, and suppuration of another, producing a foul and troublesome, as well as exten- sive ulcer. lliere is nothing special in this inflammation, except in so far as texture and lunction are concerned. It has, however, been generally considered as of a peculiar kind, and has received an attributative designation, as if the action had a character of its own, distinct from that of all other inflamma- tions, and at the same time quite independent of the structure which it affected. Erythema, an appellation given from the red colour, is not more appropriate to this than to phlegmon. Erysipelas is not less exceptionable, for it may be predicated just as certainly of peritoneal as of cuticular inflammation, that it has a tendency to draw the adjoining parts into the same state. Nosologists having adopted these terms, however, made this distinction between them, that they restricted the first to solitary inflammation of the skin, unattended with fever, or accompanied with fever altogether symptomatic, whilst the second was bestowed on an exanthematic inflammation, which appeared after the existence of eruptive fever, and which was often erratic, and not necessarily solitary. Considered abstractly, inflammation of the skin is the same in its essential characters, whatever appellation may be given, and whatever modification may exist. But if we connect it with its causes, which again must have an influence on the practice, there may, notwithstanding the e^mological objection, and the difficulty of always making an accurate discrimination, be a propriety in keeping up the distinction, if we strictly define erythema to be a local inflammation, produced by an exciting cause, operating directly on the part, and look on the fever where it exists as symptomatic, and erysipelas to be a constitutional disease, preceded by idiopathic fever, and similar to other exanthemata. In both, previous disorder of the system, or