520 whole body becomes convulsed. The body is bent back; the extremities are rigid or contracted; thejawis strongly clenched; the muscles of the face convulsed; the eyes fixed; the muscles of respiration participate in the spasm, so that if it last long, the patient may die from interruption of breathing. The abdominal muscles become hard, and are sometimes drawn backwards. During this paroxysm, the pulse becomes frequent and irregular; the respiration either hurried or laborious, if not suspended. After a short time the paroxysm abates, but the muscles of the back and neck seldom are entirely relaxed. The levators of the jaw usually remain per- manently contracted. There is either no sleep, or it is short and very disturbed. The eye is dull and watei’y. The pulse is sometimes natural in the intervals of the paroxysms, but accelerated during the convulsion. In other instances it is permanently frequent, and, cceteris paribus, the danger is proportioned to the frequency of the pulse. The mind remains sound to the last, and the patient usually expires in a convulsion, though sometimes he seems to sink from mere exhaustion. The number of paroxysms in a given time varies in different instances. In mild cases, the jaw first becomes stiff and more or less rigid, then the contracting or drawing sensation, already mentioned, about the chest or diaphragm, is felt. The trunk is repeatedly twitched back- ward. The sleep is most distressing, and often has the effect of aggravating the disease. The pulse is frequent, and the body covered with perspiration. In such cases there may be a distinct spasm every quarter of an hour, though not to a very severe degree. In most instances the tongue is moist, and, with scarcely any exception, the bowels are costive. Indeed, some seem disposed to ascribe tetanus to the state of the bowels, and I have certainly seen slight cases arise from disorder of the bowels alone. Some have described a peculiar effervescence of the stools. Others have found in the bowels, on dissection, a yellow offensive matter. But I have never been able to ascertain that there is any appearance in the stools peculiar to tetanus. Both the torpor of the bowels, and any change in the state of the stools, may as probably be conjoint