31.5 depend upon the texture, or the texture on the peculiarity of the action; that is to say, whether action or texture take the precedency. All must allow that cancerous action must be productive of cancerous texture, and that cancerous tex- ture must perform cancerous action. If it were necessary to come to a decision on this nice point of surgical casuistry, we should say, from what we observe in simple inflammation, that although action and organization go together, yet, change of action should rather precede the change of texture. Cancer is a peculiar action; but unless we can tell what it is, and wherein it differs from the natural action, we can gain no practical information. We are as ignorant, however, on this subject, as we are respecting the specialty of syphilitic or variolous actions. The superficial resemblance which part of the texture bears to cartilage, can lead to no useful result; for, granting the correctness of the comparison, we have it as little in our power to alter the nature of cartilage as of cancer. It is a more important consideration, at least rather more within our power of determination, to say whether cancer depend on a constitutional cause, like many cases of scrofula, or be at first purely local, like chancre. From the most careful observation which I have been able to make, cancer is generally, at first, a local disease. I must, however, qualify my expression by a farther explanation. I have already said that cancer, like many other tumours, is a secondary change, effected on a simple tumour previously existing. This change may be effected by causes acting in a great measure strictly locally on the tumour, as, for instance, by repeated excitement and irritation. I might prosecute to an extensive degree, the consideration of these local causes, but I rest satisfied with the general assent that seems to be given by medical men, to the possibility of the occurrence; and I would rather take a position founded both on the fact and on the assent, that cancer in the breast, for example, may be produced by causes purely local, and therefore may be considered in such cases, to be as strictly local as phlegmon. Next, a simple induration may be converted into cancer, not by the operation of causes purely local, nor by those that