113 secondary effect. It must also, in all cases of wounds, and after operations, be of the utmost consequence to allay pain. 13y attending to this rule, one patient shall speedily recover, and by its neglect, another, under circumstances apparently more favourable, shall perish. Seventh, Inflammation may be caused by division of parts. This is traumatic inflammation. In cases of contusion or straining, or other mechanical injury, inflam- mation is excited in one or other of the ways already noticed. In cases of division, the excitement given to the part may be quite sufficient to produce this action ; but without any such cause or original excitation, inflammation may take place, unless adhesion be accomplished. If we cut through the skin and cellular substance, or deeper, the wound produced, if its sides be not laid in contact and united, never remains as a raw and bleeding surface, but comes to granulate, and then is covered with skin. The orifices of the divided vessels first yield blood, and then an approximation is made toward restoration of texture. The vessels which deposited organic particles before, yield fibrin; those which secreted inter- stitial fluid have their secretion somewhat altered, and the union of the product forms one kind of pus. The sore is said to suppurate, the whole vessels yield a fluid, or the joint product is a fluid, and renovation never can cr0 on. JBut soon, the vessels alone which formed a deposite of organic matter reassume their office, and furnish organ- ized particles or granulations, whilst the interstitial vessels continue still to yield a fluid, called pus. This is different from the former process, and is called ulceration. It may in some instances, take place with little or no previous sup- puration. It is quite distinct from suppuration ; a different action altogether, and productive of very different results. n wound then heals either by adhesion or junction of its surface, or by ulceration. The first of these is speedy, and will be afterwards considered. The second is tardy and pro- gressive, and is said to be the result of inflammation. It has t eieoie been supposed, that inflammation was excited for t e sa utary purpose of effecting granulation, and was estab- ed in order to repair the injury, in consequence of the \