266 with this secretion. The vessels whicli formerly furnished the solid texture of the inflamed tumour, having their action thus changed, the tumour itself must come gradually to con- sist of a fluid, and not of a solid. Whilst the vessels of the suppurating surface are secreting pus, it is usual for those in the vicinity of the inflamed texture to secrete more interstitial fluid than formerly, in consequence of which a slight degree of oedema often attends this process, and the neighbouring skin pits on pressure. The purulent change goes on more rapidly towards the surface than in any other direction, and therefore before the whole of the sides and of the base of the tumour have been absorbed, we find that the covering in front has become very thin, and presently an opening is effected, by which the pus is discharged. It will be proper to attend to the changes which precede this opening. The skin which at first did not appear to be inflamed, soon becomes so, and exhibits all the characters of the inflammatory action, parti- cularly heat and redness. Judging then, in this instance, from what we see externally, we would say that the suppurative process was preceded by the inflammatory, that as suppura- tion advanced so did inflammation go before it, and be led essentially to connect these as cause and effect. But may not inflammation be an effect as readily as a cause of sup- puration ? As inflammation may be considered as an exciting cause of suppuration, so may suppuration in its turn become the cause of inflammation in the neighbouring parts, either by its influence on the action of these parts, or by distention, or pain, in which case it has nothing peculiar in its agency. Parts formerly inflamed, or scarcely free from the inflammatory action, may become again inflamed; or those previously sound may become inflamed, as the skin over a gland. The cha- racters of the suppurative action, or its phenomena, or its effects, may be divided into the local and the constitutional. The local, consist of a sensation of heat, and generally of ful- ness and throbbing. The surface affected, secretes pus, and the substance in the immediate vicinity is more vascular. If a thread be inserted as a seton between the layers of the web of a frog’s foot, its boundary is marked by redness, but