417 victory by the aid of his drummer. Mr. Kirkland, Mr. White, and others, attribute the cure entirely to the collapse or contraction of the artery, which closes itself up to the nearest branch. Mr. John Bell says that it is neither con- traction, retraction, nor clot, which obliterates the vessel, but embraces an opinion similar to that of Pouteau, that the cel- lular substance around the artery, being injected with blood, presses on its tube, at the same time that loss of blood lessens the vis a tergo; finally, the parts inflame, and the artery is obliterated. Dr. Jones, in 1805, made several experiments on horses and dogs, which show that all of these causes have an influence. The immediate effects of a division of an artery are an impetuous flow of blood, a sudden and strong retraction of the artery within its sheath, and a slight contrac- tion of its extremity. The blood which flows from the retracted artery passes out from the sheath, and flows on the ground, or is extravasated into the surrounding cellular membrane, according to the state of the external wound. By degrees the blood begins to coagulate in the canal formed by the sheath of the artery, and thus presently fills that canal, and closes the mouth of the divided vessel itself. The blood then coagulates w-ithin the artery, and forms a slender clot which neither completely fills the canal nor adheres to its sides, except by a very small portion near the extremity of the vessel. He thus, like Fabricius and Petit, describes two coagula, the one internal and the other external. In the meantime the artery inflames, and lymph is poured out, which, being retained by the coagula, is supposed still farther to plug the vessel, and, aided by a gradual contraction of the diameter, ends in a permanent obliteration. The same circumstances take place in the infe- rior portion of the divided artery, only its orifice is more contracted, and the external coagulum smaller. The artery becomes impervious up to the next branch, whilst the collateral branches enlarge and anastomose. If the artery be of con- siderable size, few animals survive the immediate loss of blood, and those who do, seem only to be saved by the languor of the circulation. When an artery is only punctured, or par- tially divided, a natural cure is more readily effected in ani- 2 E