nig phagedena is always preceded by inflammatory action. Ibis may supervene on the suppurating sore, but it also sometimes, though more rarely, attacks a granulating ulcer. The causes of this very formidable disease are much more frequently general than local, unless when they consist in the local application of a morbid poison. Great irritability of the system can act as a general cause. A high excitement, pro- duced by some peculiar agents, as for instance mercury, is another general cause. Certain morbid poisons applied directly to the part which they inflame produce this disease; and I have remarked, that when secondary sores, as they are called, follow this sloughing phagedena, they often appear as small dull pustules, terminating in open sores, not by previous suppuration, but by the formation of a central black slough which is thrown off. Phis inflamed and sloughing ulcer often makes great progress, although perhaps not very rapidly. It is thus for- midable by the mere destruction of a part which may be very important; but it is farther dangerous from that particular species of spreading which it exhibits. In cases of mortifica- tion following the inflammation of parts previously entire, we find that the vessels affected become obliterated; but in this kind of sloughing, attacking suppurating sores, this oblitera- tion can never be depended upon. When the slough too is thrown off, the surface immediately below is left in a state of spreading suppuration, so that even granting that the vessels interested were closed to a small extent, they would soon come to be opened by the suppurative action. Haemorrhage, therefore, is a very frequent attendant on this disease, and when the sore is seated near a large vessel, the life of the patient is in the utmost hazard. Various local applications have been proposed, but upon no one can we place much reliance. The sore sometimes speedily cicatrizes above one spot, whilst it is sloughing at another, and neither the one nor the other of these processes can be attributed to the applica- tions. In general, mild dressings to keep the part easy are the best, such as carrot poultices, or the other mild applica- tions recommended in the suppurating sore; and, indeed, I