528 abscesses form around the artery, we let out the matter by a speedy opening. A vein is more apt to be affected by spreading inflamma- tion than an artery, and this may be induced either by a liga- ture, or by a free division of a vein, or even of its semi- diameter, or by the propagation of inflammation from the neighbouring parts. For example, the application of caustic to form an issue over the vena saphena, has caused fatal inflammation. An abscess in the neighbourhood of a vein, or inflammation, or suppuration of a stump, or of a surface from which a tumour has been extirpated ; or a small angry boil; or the mere festering of the wound made in venesec- tion, with, or without extensive subcutaneous inflammation, may inflame the vein. At page 76 I have described the appearances produced by inflammation. The effect produced on the vein, the extent to which it spreads, and the severity of the constitutional symptoms, vary in different instances. Slight inflammation is productive of thickening of the coats of the vein, with effusion of the ordinary inflammatory secre- tion, followed often by the obliteration of the tube. This is attended with a corresponding tumefaction of the circum- jacent parts, and inflammation, or festering of the external wound. The constitution is often not more affected than from a phlegmon of the same extent. When the degree is a little greater, the cellular substance immediately sunounding the vein, becomes more acutely inflamed, and forms some- times a chain of indurations of considerable extent along the tube, which is equally inflamed there, or forms a poition of the common inflamed mass. These indurations end in ab- scesses, which either burst externally, or into the cavity of the vein. In such a case as I am describing, we find the limb for a little way below, and pretty extensively above the wound or original seat of the injury, swollen, tense, and painful. The tract of the vein is more painful, than other parts. It is sometimes marked by a red line on the surface, at other times the redness is more diffused. If the swelling and ten- sion permit, the vein may be felt thickened, and sometimes a chain of cellular indurations is perceived along it. When