128 effect of wise counsels, and is a salutary and necessary con- trivance of nature for repairing an injury, or preventing a greater evil. Setting aside all ambiguity, it has been, and still is looked on as a process of preservation. It is cpiite the contrary; it is a process of imperfection and destruction. We are told that if an injured part do not inflame, it must perish ; that inflammation repairs the damage, and is a mean of carrying on life, which otherwise must be lost. Nature sets to work, it is said, and by inflammation repairs the damage. This is just as philosophical as to tell us, that when a man falls into the water, he sets about getting himself wet. He gets wet as a matter of necessity, and from the same neces- sity he sets about feeling pain after burning his fingers. In plain English, these are all regular effects of their causes, without any relation to the purposes which they may serve; and the doctrine I am controverting is, to say the very least, a most unphilosophical confounding of final and efficient causes; an attribution to moral, of the effect of physical causes. The accession or existence of inflammation is indeed an evidence that life is not destroyed, but it is an evidence of nothing more. It is only desirable, inasmuch as any action is better than no action at all; and as its presence shows that the part is capable of living, but it would be still better if it returned at once to health. It is a necessary consequence of a certain degree of injury, rather than a cause of recovery. The part inflames because it does not die, instead of not dying because it inflames. If its continuity be destroyed, it must either adhere, or perish, or inflame. Now', this is not a mere matter of speculation, but one of practical importance; for it clearly follows, that if inflammation be a sanative process, it ought to be encouraged in all serious injuries, and if it be not, it ought to be shunned. We are also taught, that there are various kinds of inflammation, fitted to repair different kinds of injury. We have the adhesive inflammation, the suppu- rative, and the ulcerative. These are not peculiarities of the action itself, but effects; not adjuncts, but sequences; and we may as well make various kinds of intoxication, according to the different evils and disasters resulting from it. We in