easily affected by a degree of heat, which is not disagree- able to the sound skin ? Now this brings us at once to the point; and whatever may be said respecting the influence of that law in sensation, which relates to the modification of the effect of a stimulus, by the degree of excitement and impres- sion which has previously been produced on the part, I have no hesitation in saying, that a degree of heat considerably above the existing temperature of the injured part, shall give pain as well as the application of cold. The temperature of the application must be such, as to produce neither the sen- sation of heat nor cold to a painful degree. A temperature below that of the surrounding skin, is never useful or agreeable after the first period or stage of activity, and heat with pain- ful excitement; but, on the contrary, tepid applications are then more pleasant. To sum up my opinion of the employment of cold, I would say, that in all extensive injuries, it is to be expected to do no good, but rather harm, as it increases the shivering and does not mitigate the pain, unless where it acts injuriously, by pro- moting stupor. In slight or superficial cases, where the extent is not great, it is often of great service, and not only lessens the pain whilst it.is applied, but abates the inflammation; and in such cases, it may safely be continued for some hours, provided it continue to give relief, and cause no shivering. In cases intermediate between these extremes, cold may be applied for a very short time, for it cannot be borne so long as in the former case without producing effects, which point out the propriety of discontinuing it. When we discontinue the cold, be it at the end of a few minutes, or of an hour or more, dry cotton, in most cases, forms the best dressing. Cold is never useful unless it allay pain : it always does harm when it produces an unpleasant sensation. Finding that in some cases, especially in slight scalds with fluid, under the boiling point for water, superficial scorch- ing, &c., cold water often gives relief, it was imagined that ice should be still more effectual, but this proceeds on a mistaken notion. It often gives pain, and also makes the sensation more intolerable when removed. Iced water or snow' can