138 I cannot determine whether by suction or by the mere moving of the foot by the syringe. These facts show, that topical bleed- ing cannot have so great an influence on the blood in the part as might be supposed ; and when we consider farther the intimate change of texture in the highly vascular part, we cannot be surprised that it should often fail. Still it has an effect, as we see every day, though not to the extent which could be wished. We see the effect of copious topical evacuation, when incisions are made into an erysipelatous part, which sometimes produce speedy relief, both by the evacuation, and partly perhaps by their mechanical effect in slackening the distended skin. I have mentioned in what cases topical bleeding cannot be trusted to alone, and in other cases, it is obvious that it cannot be applied. Where it can, it is a valuable aid. - Blood is abstracted topically, either by leeches, or cupping. The first mode is more slow than the second, but it is attended with less direct irritation, and in some instances can be used when the second cannot. Cupping acts quickly, and in general we get more blood, but it cannot be used in those inflammations where the pneumatic or mechanical effect of the cup would give much pain, or when the inflamed substance is very near the surface. It is useful, for instance, in inflam- mation of deep joints, as the hip or shoulder, but not in the elbow or ankle. It is useful in intercostal or pleuritic inflam- mation, but not in that of the testicle, mamma;, &c. Circum- stances, in general pretty evident, may direct, then, which of the modes is to be adopted. The practice of making incisions of greater or less extent and depth, has been often found useful in cutaneous or subcutaneous inflammation, when we can disburden, without thereby exciting and exasperating, the diseased part. But this is, for the very reason alluded to, not applicable to phlegmon, or inflammation, extending deeply into the subjacent parts. From what has been said, it will appear, that in many in- stances, general and topical bleeding may be conjoined, and that in the progress of the complaint, or its wane, the latter may be useful, although in the commencement it would have