37 3 But if this combination be given so as to act powerfully, it is debilitating; in a smaller dose, it can do no more than a milder laxative, whilst it is more apt to derange the bowels. The form of mercury, that I think the most useful, although not much disposed to praise any of them extravagantly, is the muriate of mercury, which may be given in the dose of to % ot a grain twice a-day, or according to the age of the patient. It should not be continued above a fortnight at a time, nor so long, at least in the same dose, if it produce any debilitating diuresis, or griping, or the specific effects of mercury on the system, or interfere with the appetite. When it does good, it seems to act as a tonic, promoting the appetite, keeping the bowels regular, and slightly exciting most of the secre- tions. Under these circumstances, it is sometimes useful, but I am very far from saying universally so. In promoting the ' absorption of scrofulous tumours, and the healing of ulcers, cicuta, muriate of barytes, muriate of lime, and aqua kali, have each had their day; but as general remedies in scrofula they have now lost their reputation. Iodine has for some years been recommended from having been found useful in the swelling called goitre. I fear, however, that we must not expect much from this remedy; still in the present defi- ciency of other means, it may be worth trying, but as it is an active and a dangerous medicine, it should always be given with circumspection, and from its effects on the chest, ought never to be given in pulmonary diseases; neither ought it to be given during the existence of inflammatory action. Children of two years may begin with four drops of the tincture three times a day. Adults may take twenty drops for a dose. Iodine has also been mixed with lard, so as to form a substance which could be rubbed on the tumour morning and evening, or tiie tincture has been mixed with anodyne balsam. Some consider the external application so useful, as to supersede its internal administration. I have seldom seen any benefit from the friction, whilst it is apt to irritate the skin, and give pain, ihese medicines, so far as they are expected to have any effect on scrofulous glands, are intended to produce, directly, or indirectly, absorption. And, with a view of aiding this, some