2?0 si roller should be applied over it with some degree of firm- ness. An abscess does not heal, that is, become obliterated, by the process of adhesion, or by the one surface coming at once, and uniformly to unite to the other ; but it is rather by a process of ulceration, which we are soon to consider, that is circle after circle in succession, proceeding from the circum- ference to the centre, granulates, and thus ultimately the cavity is obliterated. The inflamed texture, that is the sub- stance of an inflammatory tumour, appears either incapable of directly ulcerating, that is granulating, or assumes this action rarely. It takes on the suppurative action, which proceeds steadily till it approach to, or arrive at the sound, that is the uninflamed texture, and then the ulcerative action may take place, and generally does so. The new formed substance of an inflammatory tumour rarely ulcerates, but it suppurates ; and wei’e the whole of a limb painfully inflamed, or converted into one large phlegmon, we should have a corresponding destruction by suppuration, or one enormous abscess. An abscess heals in a covered way in the same manner that an open ulcer does, only it does not require the process of cicatrization, excepting at its orifice. Some abscesses form very slowly after evident inflammation ; and these it has been proposed to hurry on by stimulating appli- cations, such as roasted onions, figs, poultices made with solution of salt, plasters containing resinous substances, repeated blisters, &c. Where there are still some obscure marks of inflammation, hot and stimulating poultices or plasters may accelerate somewhat the process : but, when no inflammation exists, and still more so where none has decidedly existed, we must either leave the case altogether to time, or to repeated blisters. The latter are seldom necessary; the former is generally sufficient. Poultices are more apt to fret, or excoriate the surface, than to hasten suppuration, and at least in every instance, where they have such effect, should be abstained from. It is generally proper, as soon as matter is fully formed, to open such abscesses, both with a view of saving time, and likewise to prevent so much destruction of skin, as would take place if left to the slow process of absorp-