354 not too tight, but sufficiently so, to make adequate pressure. We have no means of preventing a return of haemorrhage; and therefore when we remove the sponge, and employ the former dressing, the nurse ought to be instructed how to act in the event of a recurrence. All that we can do, then, in the open state of cancer, is to palliate symptoms, and make the patient die as easily as possible. Seeing then that we have no mean of curing this disease, and sometimes scarcely of retarding its progress, I cannot too strongly press the necessity of early recourse to an opera- tion. If this be performed on the first appearance of the disease, and before the neighbouring glands and intervening lymphatics be affected, there is strong ground to expect success. For securing this, however, we must take care to remove completely every part of the diseased texture, and also some portion of the surrounding sound parts. We must in the first place make a most careful examination into the state of the glands, and even although these appear sound, yet, if after the parts be laid open, any hardness or chord be found to extend in their direction, it must be fol- lowed, and then we find on cutting towards the axilla, and dividing the fascia, or even by carrying the finger behind the pectoral muscle, without slitting the fascia, that indurated glands may be felt, although none could be previously dis- covered. The incision, in that case, must be prolonged so as to expose the axilla, when every one ol them must be removed. We must also remember, that glands may be affected by the side of the sternum, and in the neighbourhood of the clavicle. When the cancerous tumour is small and circumscribed, it has been the practice with some merely to make an incision over it, and remove it alone, and this is more particularly adopted when the breast is large. It would, say the advocates for this plan, be as cruel as it was unnecessary, to take away the whole breast on account of one tumour. The reasoning is plausible, and I am sorry to say, that I have been carried away with it. I say sorry, because out of several trials which I thought it safe to make, only one patient had not a relapse. I theiefore most e.u-