166 excited. The constitution is affected in a degree proportioned to the inflammatory action and the sensibility of the part. Fever is often moderate, or at first absent, but it gradually increases, and may end in exhaustion or hectic. On dis- section, the disease is sometimes found confined entirely to the mucous coat, and there may even be no ulceration, but more frequently there is, or the inflammation is found to have been propagated to the parenchymatous, or other surround- ing substance. Gangrene may also be produced. We should always be on our guard in this disease, especially where vital organs are affected; for we find, that in the commencement, either the direct action of the exciting cause, or the incipient statre of inflammation produces slight increased or altered secretion, and renders that the most early and prominent effect, whilst the constitution is very little affected ; and before very urgent or acute symptoms have appeared, much danger may be incurred. Another circumstance not to be neglected is that this is more obstinate than phlegmonoid inflammation, if not early removed. The acute stage very likely passes off without immediate danger, but the part still continues with an inflamed texture, and the augmented secretion continues It has been imagined, that in many instances the part returned to its natural texture, and the discharge continued either by habit or weakness. I can see no philosophical ground foi these notions, and am inclined to think, that in every instance a local irritation will still be found to exist. It produces a transparent mucous discharge, or one a little whitish. The treatment must be a little varied, according to tie organs affected, but in all the general principles already laid down, should be acted on. Venesection or topical bleeding will in most instances be useful, and in many absolutely neces- This is particularly the case in inflammation of the mucous membrane of the trachea and its ramifications, and rf the alimentary canal; and here we must be early on our vd In elderly and delicate people, we shall cei tainly fai do no bleed promptly. In them, if we do not bleed 7 luk seldom bleed at all; for although the blood the evacuation only sinks the patient