189 I would not wish, however, to be understood to say, that when stupor or drowsiness, or even delirium attend erythema or erysipelas, we are to consider the meninges of the brain to be affected. Ihese symptoms, doubtless, are produceable by a metastasis, but may, in a great majority of instances, take place without this. The high excitement of the sentient extremities of the nerves by the inflammation, often causes toi por of their origin, and all the symptoms of hydrocephalus, without one drop of water, or any trace of inflammation being discoverable. There has always been a difference of opinion regarding the proper treatment of this disease. Some, at the head of whom we may place Galen, refrained from bloodletting, and trusted to purgatives for evacuating bile. Others following Celsus, had recourse to the lancet. Fabritius endeavoured to 1 econcile the two, by saying that Galen did not prohibit vene- section, but only said it was not necessary. Celsus prevailed, and although the lancet was not pushed with an unsparing hand, it was rather a favourite, but never to the prejudice o*f the apothecary. Sydenham, an accurate observer, bled once and again in the disease, and excuses his practice by remark- ing, that the blood is like that in pleurisy. He also gave laxatives freely. The practice of surgeons was nearly the same. They bled even in rose of the face, applied blisters behind the ears, which were considered as emunctories, nor were they, as we find by the histories of Turner, afraid to apply leeches to the temples, and blisters to distant parts, to draw away the inflammation. Decoction, or posset, as it was called, of the four greater cold seeds was given at first, and if this failed, a whey made with milk, Epsom water, and manna; a pieparation which may still be prescribed without disgust. Venesection is now practised with circumspection in^this disease; and in those patients who are of a delicate or debili- tated habit, it is altogether avoided. The safest practice is to avoid extremes, and not adhere pertinaciously to one rule When blood is taken, it ought to be early, and the evacu ^on seldom requires to be repeated. This, however, is not a Positive rule, although a general one. But it is a flict, that