47 because they do not redden. But still it may be laid down as a rule, that they inflame with difficulty, and perish sooner than they inflame. Fibro-cartilage, and the cartilages of the larynx and ribs inflame more readily. The first by inflammation becomes softer, more spongy, infiltrated with a reddish serum which soon disappears or loses it colour. Vessels may also be discovered sometimes pretty numerously, but always small. They are observed not only on the perichondrium, but also entering into the substance of the cartilage. My experi- ments and observations would lead me to say, that the process is slow, and not very different from that of tendons. Gene- rally in the substance of the part, we have an effusion of dark coloured fluid, and sero-purulent matter. The different pro- portions of cellular, fibrous, and cartilaginous texture entering into the individual composition of the organ, and its com- parative vascularity, must modify the appearances and acute- ness of the inflammation. The cartilages of the larynx die more readily than those of the ribs, or between the vertebrae. The lucid cornea of the eye is of a peculiar texture, totally destitute of red vessels, and may illustrate the inflammation of cartilage. The conjunctiva covering it may become very red, or vessels may pass along the membrane which lines it, but the cornea itself when inflamed never becomes red by injection of its proper substance. Pus may form between its laminae, and ulcers may be seen, with red vessels running toward them along the conjunctiva, but the character of inflam” mation of the cornea is muddiness and opacity. This may be decided by passing a thread through the cornea, as a seton, when not one red vessel can be seen, even with the micro- scope. This is of importance to be attended to, for it shows that opacity, at an early period, is merely the indication of existing inflammation, and is removable by the appropriate means which are to be early adopted, whilst the more chronic and decided alteration of texture is obstinate, if not incur- able. If a red vessel lie ever seen in the cornea itself it belongs to the fine cellular substance which unites the lamina;.