however, it is merely an affection of the skin, it is cured by remedies, or by lapse of time. We attend, first ot all, to digestion, and the state of the alvine discharge; whilst the diet is to be nourishing, but not stimulating. Infusion of bark, decoction of sarsaparilla, or if it do not decidedly aggravate the symptoms of disease, small doses of the muriate of mercury may be given. Pain is to be allayed, and rest procured, by opiates. The tepid bath, either fresh or salt, is also sometimes serviceable. The local applications must be varied according to their effect. We may use bread and milk, carrot, or hemlock poultices, lint dipped in the black wash, the aqua phagedenica, or solution of nitrate of silver; sometimes, on the other hand, the mildest salve agrees best. Having already compared a scrofulous tumour to a secreting cyst, and inferred, that one cause of the obstinate continuance of the disease, was the action of that cyst, con- sidered as a secreting surface; it may be inquired, whether the cure might not be accelerated by destroying completely that surface by caustic; or even, at an early period, cutting out the gland before matter formed. This, indeed, was at one time a practice adopted, particularly by Mr. Wiseman. It fell, however, into disrepute, from the pain and seveiity of the operation, from the number of glands frequently affected, and from the probability of the disease speedily appearing elsewhere; an event, which, it was apprehended, might be assisted by the removal of the gland already diseased. Whh regard to the last argument, we have no proof of its validity, and, therefore, I set it aside. Where theie aie many glands affected, the severity of the operation, and the numerous scars which will be left, would certainly not be better than the natural, though more protracted cure, espe- cially when we consider, that many of the glands may ulti- mately be absorbed, without coming to ulceration. On the other hand, where only one gland is affected, we must con- sider, whether the mark left by the necessary incision attend- ant on an operation, and the release of the patient from all the inconvenience of a tedious sore, shall be preferable to a smaller, although more unseemly cicatrix, and all the incon-