250 With regard to the constitutional treatment, there has been considerable Variety of opinion; and few questions can be inoie important to the surgeon. Some have talked very loosely of blood-letting; whilst others, from the very first, pour in stimulants. Maggius, in the middle of the sixteenth century, advises free evacuations. Hildanus in plethoric subjects advises venesection, and Heister, one of the most popular writers in his day, says, that in strong and phlethoric habits we should bleed freely. Succeeding writers, even to the present day, have copied these authorities. And very lately it has, from experiments on horses, been proposed in disease produced by putrid matter to bleed, on the principle that the mass of blood became diseased, and venesection abstracted a quantity of morbid blood. I have already given my opinion with regard to the propriety of this practice, in certain cases of severe injury, when a considerable part of a member is in a state of acute inflammation, and a portion of it perhaps approaching towards gangrene, not so much in con- sequence of the inflammation considered in its general charac- tei*, as from the greater degree of injury that has been inflicted upon it, a degree so great as to disorganize and mash it: the lancet early and prudently employed, may be a mean of pre- venting that part of the limb which may be said simply to be inflamed from being affected by the gangrene. Whether it be or be not proper in a particular case of injury, must depend on the kind and degree of the inflammation. There is another case somewhat analogous, where evacuation may be useful, and that is when the inflammation affects only a com- paratively small surface, but the part is delicate, and from some peculiarity of structure or local condition, a small portion of that has suffered and sunk more than the rest. The system also is highly excited, and the pulse is frequent and throbbing. For example, the prepuce and extremity of the penis become inflamed and swollen. From the gorging of the cellular sub- stance, and perhaps from some other cause of strangulation or obstruction to the free return of blood, one spot has become livid; may it not be supposed that venesection by allaying the fever shall prevent injurious reaction on the part, or that