4 5 partly over, but chiefly under it, so that it is detached from the bone to an extent proportioned to the inflammation. The pain is generally deep, severe, but subject to exacerba- tion, and the fluid is sero-purulent. If the periosteum be divided, the bone is felt bare, but not rough, nor does it always exfoliate. If the bone it covers be superficial, there is generally evident effusion into the cellular substance, and redness of the skin. Ligaments swell, soften, and redden somewhat by inflamma- tion, having small branches of vessels running on them, and follow very nearly the same process as tendons. If wounded and exposed they become covered by a lymphatic coat, and then with granulations which become lost or confounded with those from the neighbourhood. As we can scarcely meet with a ligament inflamed by itself, v^e cannot say what degree of pain is produced, but it certainly is considerable. They inflame sknvly, and become destroyed by a kind of suppura- tion. It has been decided that cartilage does not inflame, because it does not become red, otherwise than by being dyed like any other substance by effused blood, or imbued by it. This opinion proceeds on the supposition that redness is essential to inflammation, which dues not appear to be the case. The articular cartilages, may exfoliate in portions; they may also be absorbed or disappear by some other mode, and then in the vacancies thus left, granulations spring up from the bone below. Both of these processes imply the presence and opera- tion of a vital principle inducing the change. If a cartilage become thinner, or be destroyed, it must either be by absorp- tion, or by a kind of grinding down. It would be ridiculous to suppose the latter, and if we admit the former, w'e must acknowledge the previous existence of a diseased action, called by what name we will. There may be different states leading to absorption, but in injuries and inflammation of joints, I am inclined to look on the process as analogous to suppuration, a state in which organic matter is not furnished, but only fluid, and it is not necessary that the fluid should be }ellow or purulent. This state has been called ulceration, but m