93 rently the same, may have a smooth and uncontracted coat of fibrin ; another may have the fibrin veiy much puckered and drawn in; but the judgment ought, I think, always to be formed from the worst specimen. I also wish to impress the reader with the fact, that there may be high inflammation, requiring farther evacuation, when there is little or no con- traction, and that there may be very little contraction if the vessel be broad and shallow. 3 he proportion of the buffy coat to the red coagulum varies much, and both contain uncertain relative quantities of serum. In few acute cases, have we the buff less than one-fourth of the weight of the red clot, and it may be more. The huffy coat does not consist of fibrin alone, but the greatest part of it is serum, or watery fluid. One drachm of the crust yielded when dried only eleven grains of hard fibrin. The same quantity of muscle, macerated and washed, so as to purify it as much as these processes could do, yielded twelve grains. If dried without maceration the weight was seventeen grains. It has been supposed that the quantity of serum is incieased in inflammation, and that the lymph or fibrin becomes thinner; but both of these opinions require confir- mation. There may early appear to be more serum, from the gieatei contraction of the crassamentum forcing out more in the separation, and after many bleedings and much illness, the quantity of solid portion is diminished in all diseases. A more marked change takes place in the quality of the serum, for whilst healthy serum coagulates into a soft white mass at 160°; it loses the property of coagulation in inflammation ; which shows either that its albumen is removed, or so changed as to have lost its characteristic. Other states besides that of inflammation can produce a buffy coat on the blood, but I believe none else can cause contraction of the coat. This may take place indeed without marked symptoms of local disease, as in synocha; but other fevers of a different type, although attended with equal heat and frequency of pulse, have not the same effect. A con- tinued local excitement, or increased action, although not