; . 7 1.32 ! i 1/ if f; the canal was completely obstructed with lymph, and its sur- face covered with a thick layer of lymph for an inch and a half above, and an inch below the injured part. But he draws no general conclusion, leaving the sufficiency of the mere divi- sion of the internal coat to be determined by future observation. Mr. Dalrymple of Norwich in ten experiments failed; and the farther observations of Mr. Travers and Mr. Hodgson, are not more favourable to the opinion. It would indeed be rather strange than probable, if the simple division of the internal coat were to produce obliteration, unless the sides were kept in contact. The irritation and contraction consequent to the effecting of this division of the coat may, and perhaps gene- rally do, produce stricture, but not obliteration. The appli- cation of two or three ligatures very near each other, so as to divide or injure the coat, cannot even be depended upon, if the ligature be immediately removed, although the greater injury be more likely to cause obliteration than when only one ligature is used. In all cases, more or less lymph is effused. The notion that division of the internal coat is neces- sary to adhesion, is altogether fanciful. The mere apposi- tion of the internal surfaces of the artery is sufficient of itself, within a certain time, to produce obliteration, but this we find to be accelerated by any additional injury or irritation of the vessel, provided we keep within certain limits. Meie inita- tion alone, may produce such inflammation, or changes on the vessel, as shall cause obliteration, hli. Iluntei found, that exposure of the tibial artery of a dog for an houi, obli- terated it. We are not, however, to suppose that the mere circumstance of exposure alone acted. The concomitant irritation produced in the neighbouring parts by being kept so lono- open would contribute. With this experiment before us, we need not be surprised at the result obtained by Mr. Charles Bell, by applying a ligature loosely around the carotid of a dog. Here it was impossible that any division of the internal coat could take place. Even the sides were not kept in contact, and yet, from the continued excitation, oblitera- tion took place, which we find not to be the case, although the internal coat be cut, if the ligature be immediately