383 vessels, which still remain patent on each surface, which coalesce with those elongating or renewing from the opposite sides. Thus a vascular union is established, at the same time that a similar process is going on, with regard to nerves, and other parts of animal organization. It must not be supposed that the divided trunks, or larger branches, thus elongate, for they are closed, either by ligature, or a process of nature, so as no longer to be pervious. But the vasa minima, or small vessels ramifying in the substance, and on the surface ol the divided parts, the capillaries, become thus elongated, and coalesce. There never is direct and immediate inoscula- tion of divided vessels, or direct union of two opposite sur- faces, however closely they may be applied. There is always, in the first instance, an intermedium, or thin layer, like red jelly, which becomes denser, and progressively changed, at the same time that vessels extend into it. If an wound recently closed, be torn open, the mouths of the vessels originally divided, bleed; but if we delay for a day or two, the bleeding is not from those vessels, but from new ones, which cover its exposed surface, first with drops, and then with a diffused sheet of blood. If we save a flap of skin, leaving it still attached to the rest of the limb by one end, and then lay it down and promote union, both of its surface to the part below, and of its sides to the rest of the skin, we find that the process described takes place; and if, after the part have recovered, and the new vessels have established a circulation, we cut the base of the flap which was not originally divided and then reunite that line of division, the same step takes place there, and we have ultimately a portion of skin which has by these two operations been every where detached, but is now every where reunited by solid substance, and the5 vas- cular circulation re-established. Reunion of parts, then, by the process of adhesion, is neither more nor less than the re-establishment of the natural function of nutrition, over surfaces in a state of apposition. It is a natural process existing, however, in a forced or excited degree, and goino- on, also, in a state of progressive perfection. We are not then, to be surprised, if the excitation be'to any considerable