203 next point is, whether shall we continue the cold or apply stimulants and heat. Here the question may be left safely to the patient, if the surgeon will attend to his sensations. There is at first high action and much sensibility, and great sensa- tion of heat, all which are most frequently mitigated by the application of cold; and so long as this proves comfortable, it is doing good, but whenever it fails or ceases to relieve, and is productive ol shivering and general coldness, it must be exchanged for other and opposite means. There is some- thing in this practical rule too humbling to the philosophy of surgery to render it acceptable, but until a more correct one be offered, I fear we must be content with experimental instruction. When the skin alone is inflamed, and the injury not \eiy extensive, cold water or cold vinegar usually agree well, and so long as they relieve the sensation, they should be continued. Then it is often useful to cover the part with dry cotton, and let the patient rest. But when the injured surface is extensive, cold, independently of the tendency there is m such cases to shivering, is apt to cause great and dis- tressing dullness, and cannot be borne. The applications in this case, whatever they may be, require to be tepid. I pro- ceed to remark, that soon the pain of a scald or burn is rather that of tormenting smarting, than of heat. Now, it is chiefly the latter that cold applications relieve, for they lave no special property in allaying smarting, more than aching or itching, and whenever cold ceases to allay the pain- u sensation, it begins to increase pain. An intense degree of cold applied to a sound part of the skin, gives pain, and a moderate degree applied to a part morbidly sensible will o-ive just as much; hence, few people can bear to have a blistered part washed with cold water. As the scalded part has acquired increased sensibility, it is clear that it must be more easily actec on so far as the production of sensation is concerned, by changes of temperature, and that it can bear neither extremes leat noi cold. After the immediate and vigorous excite- ment ias subsided, it is painfully sensible to a degree of cold which could have- no great effect on the sound skin. Will «ot the same sensibility, it may be said, render it just as same