265 sion or species of oedema, or we may have pus diffused among die cells, and the skin may come to be detached from the parts below. In all these different views which we have taken, it would appear that pus is formed by an alteration in the action of vessels that naturally secrete, and is yielded by surfaces originally secreting. But the most frequent example we perhaps have of the formation of pus is afforded by parts m a great measure new, and which are formed in consequence of inflammation. When a phlegmon for instance appears we have, as we have already seen, a growth or new organiza- tion of the part, dependant on, and connected with the inflammatory action. We have farther seen that the inflam- mation may early abate, and the newly formed substance which was produced by it may be completely absorbed, and the part restored to a state of health. But on the other hand, we also know that the solid matter of this inflammatory tumour, may become gradually absorbed, and its place be sup- plied by pus, so that at last the solid tumour is converted into a bag of matter known under the name of an abscess. This is a state very different from a secretion of pus by a mucous membrane; here there is a destruction of substance, there there was none It is likewise different from the other exara- p es which we have given of purulent secretion, in as much as a huge and unnatural cavity is formed. How does this take place ? The answer will easily be made, that it is by absorp- tmn But still we are left with some other questions to decide e know that this phlegmon like the cellular substance in w mil it was formed, possessed two sets of arteries; one secret mg organized particles which formed the solid texture, the other yielding an interstitial fluid. Do the vessels ^.ich onned solid texture continue to do so, but not so fast as it is • SOI bed, whilst the interstitial vessels form pus, or do oth sets of vessels assume the purulent action ? It may „ot th_Tery,Cf?.t0,llec,lle by actual experiment this point, but At ,PUl 'a. ' 1'"V 1S’ tllat 1,01,1 sets of vessels form this secretion me 01 more parts ot the tumour the solid particles tnk but by pusabTbsmlrC T rePlaCed, by°therS0iid Particles y I A small cavity comes thus to be formed, filled