38 indurated. Punctures made with a bone, or scalpel wet with certain animal fluid, do also so act on the nerves of the part, as to produce extreme disorder in the parts to which they are distributed; and in so far as the nerves are concerned, it need scarcely in the present day be added, that certain states of the system will give very powerful predisposition to the disease. These remarks might perhaps be reserved till the causes of inflammation be considered, but they are necessary to be noticed here in support of my opinion, that extensive inflammation of the cellular substance is either dependant on an exterior cause, or connected with disease in other neigh- bouring textures leading it on. Perhaps one of the best illustrations of this which I can give, is phlegmasia dolens, which seems very much connected with the action, or con- dition of the cutaneous nerves of the thigh and leg, and in which the saphena vein is also very often involved. In this, the whole limb is more or less affected, the fascia is tense, the muscles painful, the cellular texture swelled, and filled with fibrin and albumenous fluid, and the corium itself not exempted. I say nothing at present of the constitutional symptoms. The next texture to be considered is the skin itself. I remind the reader that the corium consists of two layers, an inner which is dense, and contains few vessels, and an outer which is cellular, and so full of capillaries, that it has been named the reticular coat: it also is supplied with nerves. The corpus mucosum, as it has been called, lies between this and the epidermis. It is to the reticular or vascular layer, as a seat of inflammation, that we are now to attend. If we apply for a short time a moderate degree of heat, or a sinapism, or turpentine, we produce cutaneous inflammation, marked by redness, and heat, and painful smarting. By pi’essing for a moment on any spot, we force the blood out of the distended capillaries, and make the part pale, but the colour returns the instant the finger is removed. If we continue the excite- ment long, or apply a blister, we not only produce these symptoms, but very soon have the cuticle detached, and albumenous fluid effused below it: there is also slight effusion under the corium; and in many cases, particularly of erysi-