3 wherever we turn our eye, or direct our thought. In the animal frame, this is incessantly added to the system, to supply the continual expenditure. When connected with the blood, it forms one species of animal life, and exhibits certain properties peculiar to itself. When the blood again is converted into the different parts of the body, life is once more modified according to the organization; and that continual supply, which is demanded by the nerves, for the performance of their peculiar functions or actions is furnished by the blood, the brain and the medulla spinalis and trunk of the nerves receiving, or secreting, it from the arteries. The existence and exhibition of the phenomena of life, or the performance of the various functions, neces- sarily implies the activity of the part which performs, and the power or energy thus expended, cannot be again com- manded; for, the performance of action, requires the exer- tion of power, and all such exertion involves expenditure. We must, then, soon arrive at a point, where, either the expenditure must cease, or the power and principle to be expended must be renewed. There is, therefore, so long as life remains, and action is performed, a continual and inces- sant alternation of expenditure and renovation. If the expen- diture or action, continue long above the power possessed, or the supply afforded, debility or death must be the conse- quence. All violent degrees, even of the healthy or natural action of the body, must end in exhaustion, and all variations in the mode of acting, or deviation from the healthy or natural action, must, by that very change of nature, inde- pendent of degree, be injurious, in as much as they neces- sarily imply, a diminished faculty of renewing energy, which is part of its natural action. I surely need scarcely say, that this speculation, for it is nothing more, respecting the origin and source of animal life, is in no respect connected with metaphysical considerations. The principles of psycology are quite different from those of physiology, and even if the materialist could maintain his position, his sceptical conclu- sions could not for one instant stand against the authority of revelation, and the general impression of mankind.