194 f in order to lessen the pain. On the same principle, in burns, stimulating applications and heat have been found useful. This is the preferable treatment in all cases where the vigour of the part is impaired, and there is any tendency to mflam- matio debilis. It is doubtless necessary to attend to the actual degree of heat applied, and the slowness or rapidity ol its operation, the duration of its application, and also the nature and density of the medium. But even in other cases it is often found useful and more agreeable than cool applications. It is not easy to say, till trial, which plan shall be best, but the feelings of the patient should be at once consulted; and when the one plan is not agreeable, the other should imme- diately be tried, and that adopted which is found to be most comfortable, comfort and utility going together here, as in most other instances. Vesications ought to be allowed to burst spontaneously, and afterwards healing is best promoted by forming an artifi- cial scab by sprinkling the spot thinly with chalk. It has been proposed to lessen the inflammation by the application of leeches, and it does not appear, that in cases not otherwise disposed to gangrene, any increase of inflam- mation is produced by the bites, whilst benefit has been derived. Still, in cases where the disease is moderate, it is better to abstain from them. On the contiaiy, •wheie theie is a greater inflammation, and more participation of the sub- cutaneous texture, they may, as in phlegmon, be of service in mitigating the disease. In preference to leeches, cupping has been advised, or very numerous punctures with a lancet, sometimes so many as fifty, or incisions an inch and a half in leno-th through the cutis into the cellular substance, and vary- ing their distance from two to four inches, and in number, perhaps amounting to eighteen, or a single long incision down to the fascia, in the middle of the inflamed portion. That these, one and all of them, have done good, I believe; sometimes the redness has rapidly diminished, and in little more than a day, the skin has appeared natural, and the incision begins o unite. Still I must look on the practice as severe and its merits not only overrated, but its evils neglected. 1 lie pain