I he state oi the pulse is supposed to be uniformly affected by the nature of the organ inflamed, but always to be hard. I fear that there is somewhat of fancy in the minute distinc- tion made in the qualities of the pulse. Frequency, is one, lespecting which there can be no fancy, and yet two people often disagree as to the number. When the inflamed part is not an organ connected with the sensation of sickness, or does not influence such an organ, the pulse is generally fuller and more bounding; but even in this case there is a latitude, and the pulse both early and throughout may be smaller and more compressible. Fulness does not indicate strength, nor belong to the height of the disease alone. In the period of sinking it is also often met with; and if blood be then taken away, the patient is rapidly cut off. It is not produced by the absolute quantity of blood in the body, for the pulse may be small at first, and then near death, and after many evacua- tions, may be full, though feeble. So far as this depends on the quantity of blood, it can only arise from more blood being retained in the arteries, and less received by the veins. The feel of the pulse may vary within a few minutes, partly from a difference in the strength of the heart’s contraction, and partly from the state of the arteries themselves, and the alter- ation in the velocity of the blood’s motion. Although fulness of the pulse may be combined with weakness, yet more fre- quently the pulse becomes small when it becomes weak ; and often, from irregularity of the heart’s action, it becomes inter- mittent. This smallness may readily be produced by nausea, or tendency to syncope, and often is met with in inflamma- tion of the stomach and intestines, and, it has been thought, more frequently when the small, than when the large intes- tines were affected. The kidney and testicle, if rapidly inflamed, or high sensation be rapidly excited in them, often produce depression and small pulse; but the effect is not invariable, the pulse being not unfrequently full and bound- ing in both cases; and in this instance the patient has little affection of the stomach. The uterus, when inflamed, is still less apt to be attended with a small pulse. In inflamed glands, as the breast, tonsils, &c. or muscles or joints, the