501 this may be of different kinds; but whatever its organization may be, tins prominent condition may warrant our bestowing on it the attributive appellation of a sensitive tumour. It was once supposed that the sensibility depended on some of the fibrillae of a nerve being involved in the tumour, and excited by it: this was thought to be the more probable, from such tumour being generally quite subcutaneous, and not very large. But this has not been proved by dissection. It is, however, rendered not unlikely, by finding that excision of the tumour proves a permanent cure, which is not the case in neuralgia depending on the condition of the origin or trunk of the nerve. If the means usually employed for improving the health in general, and topical anodynes, do not relieve the pain, the excision of the tumour is the only remaining re- source we have. There is this difference between a neuralgia dependant on the state of the origin of the nerve, and one connected with the condition of the extremity, that, in the former, division of the trunk, or excision of the part, does no permanent good, whilst, in the latter, it is effectual, if per- formed before the origin and trunk be brought into a state of disease. ^ Mere pain may produce inflammation, but it generally requires the conjunction of some other cause. A nerve may be very painful, and yet no inflammation may take place; and an incision made in the pained part is not apt to inflame, because the nervous branches being divided, sensation is for the time lost. But as a general occurrence, I would say, that all wounds which are painful, are in danger of inflaming, and therefore pain should be assuaged. Pain is especially danger- ous when it depends on the state or complication of the wound, or injury itself, for the pain, or sensibility, and condition, giving rise to it, reciprocally influence each other. There is, however, a limitation to the rule, in so far as certain new organizations are concerned; for some of these bear much pain without injury to themselves, although the system may suffer much, as we see in cancer, &c. In suppurating sores, on the other hand, high sensibility, and great pain, almost always produce sloughing, or death of the part; all