63 easily torn or broken down, and it is also more easily sepa- rated from the next coat. This softening may continue long in chronic inflammation, but in that disease it is not uncom- mon to find induration of different parts of the membrane. This membrane in every inflammation loses its transparency owing to an albumenous, or fibrinous, and sometimes bloody infiltration, and occasionally there is even a degree of oedema. If the inflammation proceed, the coat becomes still more pulpy, almost like mucus itself, and at last is destroyed in patches, leaving the next coat exposed, and a surface, described as ulcerative, but more frequently only suppurating, is pro- duced. Sometimes many follicles outlive the destruction, and are found insulated like granulated erosions. It is rare for the inflammation to be long confined to the villous coat itself. It may spiead acutely to the whole substance, or even to the mesentery sometimes, but more frequently it affects the other coats in a less degree. The peritoneal coat is found either injected with red vessels, or dull and opaque, with little vascularity, according to the degree and duration of the disease. It is always more easily separated if it have participated; and below it we find a layer of fibrin, with serum more or less bloody, whilst to its surface there may be portions of fibrin attached. On separating either the peritoneal or mucous coat, we find under both the depositions I have mentioned, and between them, the muscular coat, which in protracted cases is not red or vascular, but appears like white fine striae, lesembling in miniature the bands in carcinoma. This alter- ation in the muscular fibre takes place also in inflammation of the serous coat; and whilst in some places it leads to con- traction, rendered permanent by effusions of fibrin, becoming afterwards organized, it in many more instances allows the intes- tine to distend by the gas it contains. Some have attributed this to secretion ol air, and attempt to prove it by interrupting an empty portion of bowel, by two ligatures, which nevertheless become distended; but this experiment, which I have not lepeated, is fallacious, as it is impossible to remove entirely the whole contents of the portion. The sensible state of the mem- rane Is productive of great pain in many instances, when the