498 extend it to many, as, for instance, those of a great part of the surface, still the term ought strictly to be limited to this par- ticular species of sympathy, if such it can correctly be called. Some have illustrated the state of reaction by the effect of cold on the surface; and however we may differ in the explanation, I have no objection to the example, if we confine the effect to the nerves originally implicated. But if we examine into the meaning of this term, borrowed from mechanics, as it is em- ployed in surgical parlance, we find only a very vague idea affixed to it. We shall be told that a person has met with a serious injury; that at first he was cold and feeble, and alto- gether greatly sunk, but that now he is recruiting, and reac- tion is beginning to take place. Presently we hear that the reaction has become great, and the person is in a high fever. Now, whatever the degree ol reaction may be, these are not its effects. The patient, indeed, recruited or rallied in the first instance, but this is not reaction. Then he became hot, and his pulse, formerly, perhaps, scarcely perceptible, became full and frequent, but neither is this reaction. It is a constitu- tional disease, an excitement produced by the local injury, just as a blister produces fever in some people, or in no essential respect different from the constitutional effects of pleurisy, produced by exposure to cold. The term reaction ought to be confined to the effect produced on the seat of the injury, which may be considerable or trifling; but it is never, in a surgical point of view, a general or constitutional effect. Whatever constitutional or general effect may be produced by an injury, arises from a different modus opercmdi altogether; and however powerful, or even fatal the influence may be on the local injury, that influence is not reaction. It may be said that this is more a technical than a useful distinction, and that the term may be left as it is at present employed; but opinions have much influence on practice. ' Not only Dr. Cullen, but more modern writers, none of whom have excelled him, admit inflammation and fever to be the result of reaction, and therefore look on these as salutary processes. II so, we should be careful how far we discouraged them, and after operations and injuries, should rather hail a smart paroxysm