316 cially il the lecjuisite operation must be severe, as for example the removal ol the testicle, we ought to have some cogent reason for proposing extirpation. A suspensary bandage in the case of the testicle, and avoiding excitement and local irritation in every instance, must be proper. In all other cases, the tumour should be early removed, for however inno- cent it may in one sense be considered in its original condi- tion, it is always dangerous, inasmuch as we may at a future time dread its enlargement and change of character, when pei haps it may be too late to operate. Who has not seen this repeatedly in the progress of tumours in the neck ? They begin of small size, possibly in the substance of a lymphatic gland ; they are void of pain, quite moveable, and destitute of any mark of malignancy. Who, in such a case, it may be asked, would propose, and what patient would submit to an opera- tion, for removing a simple and harmless tumour, perhaps a mere enlarged gland, which may presently discuss, or at all events may never grow larger? It may be so, and if the patient be a child, and the tumour a scrofulous lymphatic gland, the case is not one in point; but if an adult be affected with this simple tumour, and receive this consolatory advice, we find that indeed he passes a year or two, it matters not whether I be correct as to the number of months, without more inconvenience, and without being heard of, but when he returns, the tumour is decidedly larger, perhaps new ones have formed; they are harder, more fixed, and both the breathing and deglutition are most painfully affected, but it is now too late to operate. The carotid artery and jugular vein are involved in the tumour, but that is the least of the evil, for the par vagum and sympathetic nerves are interested, the adhesions to the gullet and larynx are strong, and it would be little better than instant destruction to perform the opera- tion. The patient is indeed doomed to a lingering and miser- able death, for surgery cannot now save him. Now, in this case, the tumour has not merely enlarged, but it has changed its character. It is no longer merely firm, and when cut into more or less cellular, but it is hard in all points, or when not hard, it is elastic or tense, and when cut into,