27 mere novelty of the action, or condition, for perception is greatly dependant on novelty. The degree of heat is often very little beyond that which is natural, sometimes even a little below it. In acute phlegmon, and in some cutaneous inflammations, the quantity of heat evolved is considerable. There may be even such increase without corresponding sensation, for sensibility is not always increased. There may also be a species of smarting combined with the feeling of heat, and even mistaken for it. The actual increase of temperature is greater in inflamma- tion of parts of the extremities, for it is doubtful if the temperature of internal viscera be increased much beyond their natural degree, which may be stated at an average to be 100°. This is higher than the temperature of the blood newly drawn, which is only 98°. It may, however, in its changes, give out a higher degree, and actually does so. In a case of dropsy, related by Mr. Hunter, the fluid drawn from the abdomen was 104°, consequently the cavity itself must have been at least as warm. In a case of ovarian dropsy, which I lately attended with Dr. Gibson, the thin fluid drawn from the general cavity of the abdomen, raised the thermo- meter to 102°, whilst the thick fluid from the cyst raised it only to 100°. It has been said, that blood in coagulating, rises in temperature, particularly in inflammation, but I have not been able to verify this. Parts whose natural heat is below the highest degree met with at the thoracic and abdominal cavities, have the temperature increased by inflam- mation, and sometimes seven or eight degrees above their usual heat, and this is often seen in cases of cutaneous inflam- mation, or phlegmon and erysipelas. Dr. Thomson men- tions, that an inflamed gland in his groin gave out as much heat in four days as would have heated seven wine pints of water to 212°, and yet it did not fall at the end of the time below the temperature of the rest of the body. There may be inflammation with very little pain, and this happens oftener in some organs than others. There are various degrees of pain, depending on the natural or acquired sensibility of the part, and also on the peculiarity of the action