261 dead to allow them to come in contact with the living parts. 1 he result was said to be favourable; but subsequent and more impartial observation seems not to have confirmed the report, and the practice is now seldom adopted. Were the disease confined, altogether to the skin, the formation of a complete circle of eschar, if it did not arrest the progress of the disease, at least could scarcely be expected to promote it. A portion of skin may be so bruised as to die speedily, whilst the rest of the injured part has suffered comparatively little. In such cases, the gangrened portion is thrown off without any interference from us, and a case which at first looked very ill, ends well. There is still another observation to be made before quitting the subject, namely, that mortification does not always appear as a simple affection. A man may have mortification of his leg, produced by popliteal aneurism, and here we at once say this man’s leg must be instantly cut off; but when we come into the sick apartment, and inquire a little farther, we find that he has an aneurism of the aorta, or a constitution injured by a recent apoplexy, or his limbs are cedematous, or his liver greatly diseased. We instantly change our opinion, and *ay that it is better to let this man die of the disease, than kill imn by the operation. Again, a man has his arm injured • the bone may be sound, and the main artery entire; but a patch of mortification appears on the inflamed interments I he parts below are in a state of suppuration, hmmorrhaae has appeared in the course of the disease; but it has been checked by moderate pressure. In such a case we should sav procure a free issue for the matter, dress the part lightly and support the strength, but do not amputate. Such a case lowever, lequires the most incessant vigilance. The verv existence of a patch of mortification is a most suspicious cir- cumstance. It may, indeed, have been produced bv the snot laving been nearly killed when the injury was inflicted • and in this case if the parts were otherwise healthy, it would o-ive ess alarm. Where, however, the skin is undermined^v When °ne or more arteries have been opened 3 UppUratlon’ or’ as is erroneously said, by ulceration, and