47-5 the present instance, the blood flows in a full stream to the sac, and finding no way of getting through it, there must, at the systole of the artery, if such be admitted, be a retrograde motion, however limited in degree that may be. There must, so long as the artery is pervious, be a distended state of the vessel, and a kind of oscillatory motion of blood in the orifice; whereas, in the other way of operating, the direct current being checked, the artery contracts more, and closes sooner. It is, therefore, from this view, by no means unlikely, that the oblitei'ation of the artery should be effected more slowly, and the sac be longer of being obliterated. But it is said, that when blood can no longer pass through the sac, it instantly changes its direction, in the same way as is seen in obstructing the current in one of the vessels of a frog’s foot. The stream is directed to the collateral branches, and the tumour becomes slacker and smaller almost immediately. The principle cannot be disputed. It is the one on which we rely for the re-establishment of the circulation whenever we tie an arterial trunk. But circumstances may impede the operation of this principle. If the sac be at all dilatable, it cannot operate, and at every pulsation the blood must oscillate. If pressing below the sac render, in a doubtful case, the pul- sation more distinct in an aneurism, it is evident that the blood sent from the upper orifice must impinge with more force against the sac, and in so far as reasoning, founded on this view goes, we should say, that it is only when the sac is possessed of firm coagulated boundaries, which can neither contract nor dilate, that this principle should be expected freely and powerfully to operate. We have as yet too few cases before us to judge upon. I have myself made no trial of the plan, but from the cases which are published from first to last, am satisfied, that we ought to limit the proposal to those aneu- risms where a ligature cannot safely be applied in the usual way. Knowing that the cure of aneurism depends on the con- solidation of the contents of the tumour, and the oblitera- tion of the arterial tube, it may properly be inquired whether it be possible to effect these purposes without tying the artery. I