404 extraneous coat, called the sheath, is shaggy, loose, and com- posed of cells, containing in young subjects a serous, in adults a more fatty substance. This intermedium adheres loosely to the cellular coat of the artery, so that when a large artery is to be tied, we sometimes cannot readily or neatly put the ligature around it, till this sheath, for a little way, be slit up. This sheath varies both in density and structure in different parts. Thus the femoral artery, as it passes out from the pelvis, is accompanied by a production of the fasciae of the pelvis and transversalis, forming a distinct sheath, into which it enters, but which becomes more cellular as the artery descends, though still maintaining the character of a sheath. Besides this sheath of the arteries we often find another cover- ing, fixing and defending them still more. To take the femo- ral artery still as an example, we find a firm expansion pass- ing over it, and its proper sheath, which is a continuation of the fascia from the vastus internus to the triceps, and this must be slit before the artery can be exposed, and may also have an influence on wounds of the vessels. But the pecu- liar connexion and relations of individual vessels will come to be considered with more advantage hereafter. The different coats of an artery possess different properties, both in health and disease. Those which are exterior to the arterial coat, and contain much cellular texture, are of much importance. They convey the vessels and nerves, and con- nect the artery to the neighbouring parts, so that, if extensively detached, it is insulated, its vessels torn, its supply of pabulum cut off, its action impaired, and it falls into a state of low inflammation, ending either in slough, or an unhealthy species of suppuration, commonly called ulceration of the artery, both of which are attended with the same effect of opening the vessel, and producing haemorrhage. The cellular coats are susceptible of inflammation and all its consequences, each of which, except adhesion, must be hazardous or fatal to the coats below, inasmuch as the supply of blood by the vasa vasorum is cut off1. Nothing then can be worse than suppu- ration of this coat of an artery. The cellular coat, from the nerves it contains, or forms a bed for, ought to be sensible,