106 lever, or rather this may glide into it, and then we have no defined commencement. „ In other cases, we have first a local irritation or uneasy feeling, productive speedily of some sym- pathetic effect, as, for instance, on the stomach, or directly on the nervous system, and followed by a regular paroxysm like ague. This does not fall properly to be considered here; but an example may be found in the stricture of the urethra, particularly when a bougie is passed. SECTION EIGHTH. With regard to the exciting causes of inflammation, it may be said in general, that they consist in whatever can excite the action of a part beyond a certain degree, compared to its exciting powers and previous action. They therefore compre- hend all stimuli capable of acting on a part directly or indi- rectly, and will be found to include many causes, which in systems founded more on methodical simplicity than on truth, are considered as depressing, or lessening action, and respect- ing which, the more fastidious might sometimes find it difficult to say, whether they belonged more to the class of predispos- ing or exciting causes. Without entering into any special enumeration of individual causes, I may mention, that they can operate, First, directly or indirectly, by their stimulating or exciting effect on the part to which they are applied. Example of this we have in the operation of heat, acrid substances, mechanical irritation of sensible surfaces, &c. These act immediately on the extremities of the nerves of the part, and consequently will produce effects proportionate to the susceptibility and sensibility. The cold-blooded animals have the capillary circulation continuing apparent in a limb for some time after it has been cut off, and it may even be excited to a state resembling inflammation. But we cannot inflame, in the slightest degree, the foot of a man by applying to it boiling water the moment after amputation. Whether if it were at the same time influenced by galvanism, it would inflame, I have not determined. No part can be much inflamed without a strong effect being produced on the extre- mities of the nervous fibrilke, including those which are con-