hours. The intestine was highly inflamed, soft, and deeply injected, firmly adhered to the aperture, which was also red for a little way externally and internally. The rest of the intestine was scarcely, if at all, inflamed, but the mucous coat of the stomach was decidedly inflamed, whilst the peritoneal coat was quite sound. The same circumstances may be observed in the human subject, particularly in the case of hernia. I know no point more difficult to determine than the extent to which evacuation should be carried; and feeling the awful responsibility on a teacher for his precepts, I do earnestly beg of the student, if he find that my rules have misled him, and that he have lost his patient by my advice, of bleeding freely in the early stage, and sparingly, if at all, in the more advanced period, that he satisfy himself of the effect of an opposite plan, for I have nothing in view but his good, and the safety of his patients. I have given my opinion freely and unreservedly, as it has been formed from observation. In conclusion, I beg of him to attend not merely to the nature of the part affected, for inflammation of the lungs and paren- chymatous organs bear bleeding better than those of the intes- tines and delicate parts, but also to the constitution of the patient, his age and strength. Some substitutes have been proposed for the lancet, with a view to lessen the action of the arterial system. It is very doubtful if such exist. We know that the stomach has gieat influence on the heart and arteries, and that sickness or depressing causes operating• on the stomach, can render the pulse small and feeble, and ultimately, perhaps, produce syncope. But when we know these facts, we also know that often our worst inflammations are conjoined with these very states; that inflammation of the stomach and intestines is attended with great sinking and depression, and often with both a small and feeble pulse, with the very conditions, one and all, that these substitutes are intended to produce; and yet no benefit, but rather harm results therefrom. It is one thino- to biidle the circulation, as it is called, through the medium of the stomach, and quite another thing to alter the action of