6 inueased, diminished, or altered. JTlie origins and extremi- ties of the nerves sympathize thus, and a quick and instan- taneous excitement of the extremity, is likely to induce an excitement of the origin. Numerous examples of this might be given, and of the production of a train of sympathies. If the extremities of the fifth pair of nerves be excited, as in dentition, we find the origin also affected, and in many cases excitation extends thence to other parts, so as sometimes to produce general convulsions, or general disease in the brain, leading to hydrocephalus, or an involvement of the eighth pair of nerves, producing an effect on the lai’yngeal nerve, causing a temporary paralysis of the glottis, spasm or croup, or producing vomiting, purging, &c. Such affections of the stomach and bowels again, thus induced, or produced by any other cause, acting directly on them, as for instance, indi- gestible food, worms, irritating faeces, &c., and whether consisting in varieties of excitation, or connected with inacti- vity, may react on other nerves very extensively, and muscular affections, eruptions, or fevers may be among the consequences. The influence of the nerves of the alimentary canal, in thus producing extensive and also remote disease, is well known, and, perhaps from having been at one time too much over- looked, it may now have too much assigned to it. Farther, if during the existence of deep-seated inflammation, that of a bone for instance, or of the spinal sheath or pleura, we apply a sudden and great stimulus to the surface, as for instance, very hot water or caustic, we to a certainty excite the parts below, and aggravate the disease. The system sympathizes with a sudden failure of action, or loss of action in a part, as certainly as with sudden excitement of a part, and this may be manifested under any of the kinds of sympathy. Third, Sympathy of equilibrium, by which one part has its action diminished, in consequence of that of another being increased, and vice versa. This is usually produced or exhibited when the change is more gradually induced. Hence, a blister applied over the skin, covering a deep part in a state of inflammation does good, the action within lessening, as that without increases.