213 be supported by light, but nourishing diet, as soup, jelly, light animal food, &c.; and suitable cordials must be administered, particularly wine. I onics, when they agree with the stomach, aie useful in exciting appetite and promoting digestion. Otherwise they do no good. Sulphuric acid, bitters, bark, n-on, &c. are of this kind. We must not be too long of com- mencing this coi dial plan, for if we be, it does not succeed, t ie stomach loses its vigour, and never rallies, and every day adds to the evil. But there are some specialties in this accident at the very first, ie patient is restless, thirsty, heated, or at least not cold, and 15 in a state approaching to fever, if not of fever. Let him have cool drink freely, cover him lightly with clothes, and, if sum- mer, open the window, and study sedulously to mitigate his pain by local remedies. On the other hand, he may be cold, and shiver, or be even sick. He feels sunk, and looks pale and languid. He must in this case be covered more warmly, but not oppressed with clothes. He should have an opiate, and then some tepid, el- even hot drink; but unless he be much sunk, it ought not be stimulating. If he be, a little hot wine, or brandy and hot water, is the best remedy. The sudden shock, even where the injuiy is not very extensive, sometimes sinks a sensible or delicate constitution rapidly and prodigiously. This may happen to adults, but chiefly to children. As coldness, and oo often the effect of what may be called shock, are amongst the earliest and most formidable symptoms of burns, it may be ought that I ought, in the first instance, to have brought lent forward, but they are not essential, though frequent. The pulse is often in the early stage weak, or even scLely , felt, and the mind, m great degrees of injury, seems as much overpowered as the body. Strong stimulants camiot u ie this, but repeated doses of moderate stimuli may be of much service. Doses of laudanum, moderate for the am given m a little brandy and water, and the application of I T ^ °r neCk’ with very 3d juiet pait, constitute the best practice. The quan-