159 and from a mistaken lenity, inefficient means are trusted to, when thelancet, orcupping-glass and blisters, should be resorted to. How these indurations, when they are established, are to be removed, this is not the time to consider; but here it may be proper to remark, that when we fear their produc- tion, in consequence of some uneasy sensation or disturbance of function remaining after inflammation, or from symptoms of returning health not speedily appearing, or perhaps from the situation of the part preventing our ascertaining distinctly the existence of induration or swelling, we ought to consider how fai theie is still such action in the part as may warrant the application of leeches ; or if not, we should apply a blister, peihaps lepeatedly, or form an issue over the part; but in pro- secuting the application of blisters, regard must always be had to theii effects, and the caution formerly given concerning the debility they sometimes produce, must never be lost sight of. When this is not done, if the situation admit, advantage may be derived from gentle and long continued friction every four or five hours; and a little oil will be found to render this more pleasant, and often more useful. The application of a tepid bread and milk poultice is sometimes beneficial. It is chiefly in this state of unextinguished inflammation, and what may be called simple inflammatory thickening or swelling of the part, that we succeed in effecting a cure. For when the part becomes more altered still in its texture, and more indu- rated, our power over it is less. When simple thickening i emains after the inflammation has entirely subsided, gentle pressure sometimes causes absorption. Or if a canal be affected m this way, so as to tighten it, mechanical dilatation may be effectual, operating also as pressure. Discutients externally and internally have been proposed ; of the former kind are gentle stimulants, such as the applica- tion of cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine and vine- gar; ether, friction with camphorated liniment, mercurial ointment, repeated blisters, galvanism, &c.; of the latter are meicury, muriate of lime, iodine, or simple aperients. There aie two ways in which remedies in this case may be supposed to act. First, by directly altering the action of the part, and