71 rijgous. The heat is much increased, the pain generally dull, but depressing and sickening. The back is pained, and the motion of wind along the bowel on the iliac region is produc- tive of pain. When resolution takes place, the body of the testicle first subsides in size, the tumour abates, so that a feel- ing of softness is substituted for firm elasticity, and it might even be supposed that suppuration was taking place. Next, the epididymis becomes smaller and softer, and the skin paler and more relaxed, whilst the pain, &c. abate. It is not pro- bable that adhesion to the tunica vaginalis is a frequent con- sequence, for hydrocele may afterwards take place, though seldom as an immediate consequence of acute inflammation. Suppuiation also is comparatively rare; and the most fre- quent termination, next to resolution, is chronic inflammation, marked by indolent swelling, and leading to hydrocele. If we inflame the testicle of a rabbit, we find at first that it becomes tedder in its substance, without any extravasation ; although the internal vascularity be decidedly increased, the colour is not dependant apparently on that, for even a good glass cannot establish this. I he section appears more gela- tinous or homogenous than in the natural state. The epi- didymis is firmer, and more like fibrin in its colour on come points of the surface, and it is more covered with vessels than the testicle. The tunica vaginalis has still more vessels. I have never examined the human testicle at this early stao-e. If inflammation proceed, more swelling and interstitial effu- sion take place, with increased vascularity, and the texture becomes more glossy and fibrinous, or gelatinous, in its appear- ance. In a still higher degree, it becomes more spongy look- ing, and softer, infiltrated more with bloody serum, and vas- cular. The epididymis is covered with vessels, and swollen. Its internal substance is still white, and the vas deferens often contains a pulpy, white or milky-looking, fluid, and both are very vascular on the outside. If the testicle have been bruised, firm coagulated blood is found effused into a cavity, and around this there is bloody infiltration. In these experi- ments, the chief swelling existed exterior to the tunica vagi- nalis, which was always highly injected.