39 2 ing every thing which can excite, or stimulate the part, either mechanically, or by allowing the heat to accumulate, or otherwise. Cold water, applied with cloths, over light dressings and plasters merely sufficient to keep the parts in contact, is often of signal benefit. As the process of adhesion has been considered merely as a species of inflammation, it may be supposed we should not be anxious to avoid the salutary effect. But although a very slight degree of inflammation may not be incompatible with immediate union, yet it is not in any degree necessary to it; and inflammation existing to such an extent as to exhibit the marked characters of that state, is positively inju- rious. Union, doubtless, may take place, but it is generally accomplished in a secondary way, being preceded by secretion of sero-purulent fluid; and unless this secretion have had the effect of lessening or removing the inflammation, and allowing the adhesive action, in the sense already explained, to take place, it is accomplished by a species of gran ulations. Another circumstance occasioning misconception is, that after adhe- sion has taken place, inflammation may supervene in the neighbouring parts, and yet the intermedium may not die, if it be, as it always is in the healthy process of adhesion, a thin stratum, or unless the inflammation be high. Mr. Hunter, who looked on the process as altogether inflammatory, says, the inflammation may run so high as to kill the extravasated blood or lymph, the two intermedia, in his opinion. But the intermedium is able to bear more action than we may at first suppose, being, if thin and otherwise healthy, sustained or supported by the vigour of the surfaces between which it exists, and with which it is vitally connected. A frequent cause of inflammation, is the surfaces not being kept in contact. This would be of less consequence were the doctrine true, that coagulated blood, or effused lymph, were useful and living soils, into which vessels could shoot and spread luxuriantly. But it is not so. The surfaces must be in contact; there must be little or no extravasation, none which cannot be absorbed, and got out of the way quickly by nature. If the part, by its condition, cannot adhere, it must inflame. If it do not adhere, although no mechanical cause