134 action, but deviations in this, may affect the sensation, and operation of the nerves, and all the other constituents of the action of a part, on the principle of the sympathy of associa- tion. This is another effect of bleeding, which we cannot as yet produce by other means. Contraction in the arterial system is a positive act, implying power or activity, and if instantly produced, implies instant and sudden activity. By association, the absorbent system is brought often into a similar state of activity thereby, and rapid absorption from the diseased part is excited; nay, even the whole absorbent system is sometimes thus excited, and serum taken up. It has been found, in a person freely bled, that there has been a greater proportion of fluid in the last than in the first cup, although only a few minutes could have intervened between their flowing. Contraction of the arterial system may, how- ever, be carried too far; and the very effort to contract, to the degree necessary in great or repeated evacuations, must soon prove an excitement to the vascular and nei’vous system. Hence we find, that when no disease previously existed, as in wounds of large arteries, or uterine haemorrhage, a state approaching to fever may be produced by loss of blood. And it is no less certain, that too copious evacuation, in the treat- ment of inflammation, must produce a state of the vessels capable of exciting the system, and thereby retarding the recovery of the patient. Connected with this subject, I would observe, that it is not improbable that this rapid contraction, exciting the vessels, hastens the appearance of the buffy coat. If, for instance, we bleed early, and before the pulse have become much affected, and the local disease be not very con- siderable, no buff may appear on the blood; but we find immediately that the pulse becomes quicker, and if we bleed ' again in an hour or two, the blood is very sizy. This, doubt- less, may be from the progress of the disease not having been arrested; but it also, in all probability, is aided by the state of the vessels, produced by a full bleeding. I have as yet con- fined my view of the effect of venesection to the consequences produced on the diseased action ; but I add, that it often acts chiefly by taking away the exciting cause. I have stated my