4 480 which consists partly of interlacing, but principally of longi- tudinal fibres, which are more evident in the superficial than in the deep-seated veins. They are also more distinct in the smaller branches than in the trunks. This coat, which has a mixed appearance of cellular and fibrous substance, is, as well as the internal membrane, easily dilated, and is almost devoid of elasticity. It is also difficult to break it. There are few, if any transverse fibres. Thirdly, we have a cellular coat similar to that of the artery, but neither so dense, so firm, nor so distinct. Lastly, this layer is connected to the neighbouring parts by still looser cellular substance, which improperly enough has been considered as a fourth coat. Veins possess few or no nerves. When a vein is punctured, the blood seldom flows very freely, unless the trunk above be obstructed. The flow either ceases spontaneously by coagulation in the wound, or is easily stopped by pressure. Adhesion readily takes place between the cut surfaces, and the integrity of the vein is restored without any diminution of its capacity. It a vein be completely divided, the blood flows until the mouth of the vessel be closed by a coagulum. This, in a small vein, is effected early and easily. In a large .vein, it may not be accomplished until much blood be lost, and both the strength and the celerity of the current be checked by syncope. In veins of still greater size, the flow, in many instances, will continue until fatal effects be produced. External pressure, if efficiently applied, is capable of immediately repressing haemorrhage from the division of the largest vein, and its mouth is presently closed by adhesion. This is very different from what occurs when an artery is wounded. And this comparative facility, with which venous hsemoi- rhage may be repressed, is, in a great measure, attributable to the mechanical properties of the vein, conjoined with the inferiority of the vis a tergo. The blood is also supposed to be drawn towards the heart by suction. But into the truth of this physiological question, I do not mean to inquire. When a vein is wounded, its sides ought to be laid as accu- rately together as possible, and we ought, at the same time, to be particularly careful to have the surfaces of the super-