179 more flat and loose under the skin. A warm poultice should be immediately applied, and the part opened when matter has distinctly formed. If any slough steeped in pus, come to present at the orifice, it ought to be cautiously brought away, and in all cases gentle support with a bandage will be uselul to promote healing, and prevent the farther infiltration of matter along those cells, which are in a manner sound. Pus eithei extends along the cells, or these become sloughy, and it extends under them, and above the fascia. When erythema attends an wound in a healthy person, it will generally be found that the original irritation is positively high. But in a broken or diseased habit, it may be produced by slight injuries, more especially in those parts which are remote rom the heart, and previously weaker or more easily injured, such as the inferior extremities. In such, cases a slight abrasion of the skin, particularly if at the same time it°be much irritated, or otherwise injured or bruised, is very apt to produce extensive erythema. How much more may this be expected to take place in more severe laceration of the integu- ments, with puncture, tearing, and distention of the tendons, ligaments, or fibrous expansion below, or in compound frac- tures, or in limbs which are crushed or severely mangled, or partially torn off. In all of these, from the slightest to the most extensive injury, erythema is apt in sunk habits to arise, and add greatly to the danger of a case, difficult enough in Used to manage. It proves an additional source of irritation to the system, is a sure guide to the spreading of gan^ene when that takes place, and often a bar to the operation of amputation, when that might otherwise have saved the patient. Besides the risks in this case from abscesses and extensive umeatiy ulceration, there are two other more immediate sources of danger. The one is the exhausting irritation com- municated to the system, for the local disease acts on the system, as well as the system acted on it. The other is the production of mortification. ma?? §reat aim m a11 theSG iniuries> whatever their decree y be is to prevent inflammation. In a broken or irritable hsb,t> there is - too slight to ba despised, and frl