451 identified, by fibrin, with the expansion of the sac. In some instances, we have both a distended artery and a dilated cham- ber, the latter occasionally filled with coagulum, the former patent. In others, we have the artery of natural size run- ning over the face or front of the sac, which is connected with it by a longitudinal rent in the back or under side of the artery. Often we have the artery opening at the top into a distinct sac, and this sac at the bottom giving off again the artery. This state may have arisen from a transverse rupture, which extended considerably round the canal. It is not neces- sary that it should have been complete, for the remaining or intervening portion of the vessel would stretch and change. In whatever way the aneurism forms, and however it may be modified in its relations to the original canal, whether identi- fied with it, and resembling a mere expansion of the artery, or attached to it as a chamber connected by a larger or smaller opening, one and the same result takes place, namely, that the blood is confined within a space which, whatever its size or shape may be, is still virtually equivalent to an artery, and capable of transmitting blood. There is always a direct cir- culation carried on, and often on cutting up the aneurism, the orifices of the artery are seen neatly entering into or con- nected with it, and perfectly identified with it by the changes which have been going on, the deposition which has taken place, and the thickening of the outer coat. At no time, from the very first, was the circulation suspended, or cix-cuit- ous, or even difficult, and therefore no immediate danger can arise, in so far as the circulation is concerned; for the limb, or inferiorpartofthe body, is directly supplied with blood. Now, this is a very different state from that which exists in false aneurism, or that produced by wounding the vessel. In that case, I have endeavoured to explain, that whilst in small wounds the sheath may for a time supply the deficiency of the artery, and keep up to a certain extent the direct circulation, and whilst in other cases the connecting of the extremities of the vessel with the sac, by effusion of fibrin, might have a similar effect, yet, in greater injury, particularly in complete division or laceration, this could not be depended on, and the