291 condition of that part, and by all the changes wrought directly or indirectly on it. Some textures and organs have, relatively considered, lower power of performing action than others, and less ability to sustain the operation of stimuli. Some exhibit more sensibility than others under disease, and the reaction of this again on the disease, and on the condition of the part, I have fully noticed already. It would be a waste ol time to prove that the ulcerative action may be more or less tardy or vigorous, more or less prone to end in some new action, as suppuration or inflammation, or more or less liable to become excited, or very irritable, in one part of the body, and in one texture than another, or in any one part, according to the general condition of the system, or that of organs more directly operating by sympathy on the part. It is a truism, that every part may be excited with a facility proportioned to its excitability, and certain textures, as well as certain states of the system, render an ulcer more or less excitable. There is nothing in an ulcer which can exempt it fiom the operation and effect of those causes which could influence the part before: it may well say in the biting language of Shylock, “ If we are like you in the rest, we will lesemble you in that. An excited ulcer can no more heal than a man in fever can be considered in health. The effect of this excitement is to mar the granulating action. It induces a state of pain and irritation, under which the granu- lations never can be formed in a healthy way. The surface is either darker or more fiery in its colour, the discharge becomes thinner, and the granulations of a sharper and less organized appearance: the surrounding skin becomes to a greater or less extent inflamed, or at least turgid. If the excitement have been carried farther, the ulcerative action is destroyed alto- gethei, and exchanged either for that of inflammation or suppuration. It will therefore be scarcely possible to describe the varied intermediate degrees, which may be met with between slight disorder or excitement, and total annihilation of the ulcerative action. There is a very opposite state, which is often inducfed as a consequence of this one. A person by w alking, or by other causes, excites an ulcer during the day,