35 and of a pale red colour. If the inflammation go on, the hardness at the surface is exchanged for elasticity, and sup- puration takes place. The sensation attendant on inflamma- tion ol the cellular substance is variable; generally it is described, as that of heat, with painful throbbing. It is not however easy to describe a pain. This is more or less acute, and is either confined almost entirely to the spot, or extends along the member, according to the nerves involved, and the effect on the subjacent parts. The pain sometimes is the first symptom which calls the attention of the patient to the part; but when it is called, there is always swelling to be discovered. In other cases, pain does not take place for a considerable time. The inflammation of the subcutaneous cellular substance usually begins in one spot, namely, that on which the cause acted, and is confined to that, and its immediate neighbourhood, unless excitation or other additional causes, in which I may include, what are called constitutional conditions, make it spread. I do not prosecute farther the changes, as they will be con- sidered under suppuration. If the person die, and the part be examined, it will be found gorged and swelled in the way described, and the vessels are generally filled with coagulated blood, so that even size cannot be pushed into them, and the neighbouring skin and cellular substance may be finely injected, whilst they are filled with blood. From the same cause, we can only partially inject, even with mercury, the fine vessels of the inflamed web of a frog’s foot, if it have been any where diseased. The mercury runs into the trunk at the toes, but only a few are filled in the web, whilst the column presses on more forcibly the blood in the capillaries. The injection is more or less imperfect, according to the coagula- tion of the blood, but we can always fill some. If recovery take place, we find that the pain abates, the swelling and hardness diminish from the circumference toward the centre, but there is often for a long time a central point of induration, which would make it probable that the exciting cause had at first acted most intensely on one spot, from which the disease radiated.