443 dressing, pull gently, to ascertain if they can come away, for they may be retained merely by a shred or filament of indu- rated substance, which may easily be ruptured. If we pull strongly, we give pain, and if we did prematurely detach or rather wrench off the ligature, we should pull away the end ol the artery with it. If the vessel be large, haemorrhage would ensue: if small, a little blood flows, but the vessel, even if opened, soon ceases to bleed, especially if pressure be applied. But it is better not to require this, or to hurry the separation of a ligature, even from a small artery. Immediately after the ligature is applied, the temperature of the limb usually falls, and continues below par till the second, or, perhaps, third day, when it rises four or five degrees above the natural standard, and continues in this state for about a fortnight. In some instances, however, the temperature does not fall after the operation, but becomes almost immediately increased, and rises ultimately so high, perhaps, as even an hundred. Whether the temperature had risen or fallen at first, it is usually some degrees higher the second than the first week. From the instant diminution of temperature on tying the ligature, we should conceive that the trunk below received little or no blood. But this is not the case, for if the artery be punctured, immediately below the ligature, blood flows. If, then, by a collateral and retro- grade circulation, the trunk below the ligature be still sup- plied with blood, it may be asked, how can the ligature cure aneurism ? I reply, that the direct current is checked. The blood indeed enters for a time the artery below, by a retro- grade course, but it is both slowly and imperfectly. There is no free nor direct efficient circulation. The vessel gradually contracts, and is obliterated. A puncture will only yield blood soon after the ligature has been applied. I have said, that in some cases the temperature immediately falls. In others it does not, but even rapidly rises above par. This (variety must depend on the previous state of the circulation. According to the degree of direct circulation which has been going on through the aneurismal tumour, the temperature may be expected to fall. Where there has not been a direct