tity of brandy to be given must depend on the degree of sink- ing, but is never to be carried beyond what is necessary to prevent farther failure. If given to the extent of producing positive stimulation, it is hurtful; and indeed we must always remember that there is a tendency, if the patient survive the stage of depression, to morbid excitement. The assistance of warm applications to the extremities, or pit of the stomach, or back, if the nature of the accident permit of this, is always to be taken. The duration of the period when cordials and stimu- lants are required, will vary according to the constitution and extent of injury. In some instances two or three hours will terminate it, in others it may last for several days, but not to the same degree. The state of the pulse and ol the tempera- ture, as well as of the mind, must determine the practice. The urgent symptoms of sickness and vomiting are best allayed by solid opium. The various preparations of opium seem also to have a powerful influence on the evolution of heat, and on sensation, increasing the one, and relieving the other in a marked degree. Stupor or coma has formerly been noticed as an effect of scald and burn, and this is alarming. It is not, however, hopeless. The treatment here is to avoid cold applications, and preserve the heat of the body; apply gentle tepid stimu- lants to the burned part, as tepid vinegar, for instance; give moderate doses of wine and water, it the patient can swallow; shave the head, and apply, first a sinapism, and then a blistei. A brisk purgative, or smart clyster, if the patient cannot swallow, should also be administered. By these means, I have seen those recover who were quite insensible, with the pupil dilated, and even a degree of oppressed breathing. But under the same treatment others die. Much depends on the prompt use of these means. Prolonged stupor, especially if preceded by much shivering, is dangerous. The part may cicatrise, and yet remain very painful, from the state of the tendons or nerves below. This is particularly the case with the foot, so that it is long before the patient can bear his weight on it, far less walk. This effect, in e' ei v