481 jacent parts kept in contact. This, in small wounds, and when the vein is superficial, as in the ordinary operation of bloodletting, may be effected by merely pressing the lips together, and then applying a small compress, over which a bandage is to be rolled with sufficient firmness. This both preserves contact, and represses bleeding. The thickness of the compress, and the tightness of the bandage, must be regulated by the size of the vein, the extent of the wound, and the disposition to bleed. When a large artery is seated immediately below the vein, the pulsation renders it more difficult to repress haemorrhage. When much pressure is required, it will be necessary to diffuse it from the very ex- tremity of the limb to a little above the wound, otherwise the bandage will be little better than a ligature; and the ex- tremity below will become swelled and numb. When there is a difficulty in retaining the external surfaces of the wound in contact, we must previously apply strips of adhe- sive plaster. Should it be necessary to apply pressure on a vein, where we dare not use a tight bandage, as, for instance, on the neck, we must take the assistance of a thick and graduated compress, at the same time, that we take the benefit of the power of gravity in carrying on the blood by keeping the patient in a raised posture. In every instance, it is of great importance to promote adhesion of the wound as soon as possible. For, if it inflame and suppu- rate, inflammation may be communicated to the vein. And although this should not happen once in fifty such cases, yet the possibility of an evil so formidable occurring, is not to be disregarded. When large veins have been cut or punc- tured the bleeding is profuse, and that in proportion to the extent of the wound, and the impediment to the free trans- mission towards the heart. From an apprehension, that pressure may not be sufficient to repress the haemorrhage, at least without the use of plugs and sponges, which would produce a tedious suppuration, it has been proposed to tie a thread around the puncture in the vein, and I have certainly known this done with impunity. But, in other instances, the ligature applied either around the puncture, or the whole 2 i