541 down his bleedings, by stopping each time before relief be gained, may detract double the quantity, without even miti- gating for a moment the disease, and by his injudicious em- ployment of a remedy, destroy him who might perhaps have recovered, had he been totally neglected: for it is not to be forgotten, that if depletion be not conducted so as to prove useful, it must be positively injurious, and also, that beyond a certain degree it is not safe. By the timely and proper use, then, of evacuations, we may save the system. The constitu- tion is in an unnatural state of excitation, or inflammatory action, and a quantity of blood may be safely taken away, nay, with the feeling of relief, and the effect of preventing exhaustion, which, if lost in a state of health, should have either proved fatal, or have produced great hazard. If we arrest the progress of the disease, and destroy the inflam- matory action, wre seldom have occasion to use means for directly preventing exhaustion, and if we have, these are always to be sparingly employed, unless mortification require. But there is a case, in which inflammation and fever come on, in a person weakened by previous evacuation, or sunk by the shock and violence of an injury, and here the constitutional treatment is more difficult. He is in danger, even from slight disease, of great or rapid exhaustion, and yet we dare not give cordials. It is, therefore, a case of peculiar danger, and many die. The rule is to bleed early, but not repeatedly, and en- deavour to support the strength, by the mildest cordials, by those which ought rather to be called nutriments than stimu- lants, at the same time that we lessen the exhausting influence of pain, by the exhibition of opium. All fevers cannot be ai’rested or cured by depletion, but the chief exceptions are those connected with, or dependant on such local affections (under which I may include the exanthemata), which cannot be thereby controlled. Yet even in these, there are few cases where a moderate, if at the same time an early, use of the lancet, or of leeches, may not be useful. I have offered these remarks, which are perhaps recapitu- lations of what has already been said, to illustrate the pro- priety, in every instance, of directly checking disease, if we