529 this affection does not yield early to curative means, we find that it increases to a great degree, but it does not always appear to make progress in a continuous line. For, different parts of the vein, or of the venous system, may exhibit symptoms moi'e acutely, whilst the intervening portions are less affected. At the same time, the limb itself, from the puncture upwards, is affected, usually with universal swelling, and the pain is often great, sometimes excruciating, especially when the ac- companying nerves are involved. The constitutional symp- toms are not always proportioned to the severity of the local disease, but sometimes are very severe, when the external appearances are not very extensive. There may be fatal consequences, although the inflammation be confined to a small portion of the vein, and neither the heart nor lungs have suffered, nor any of the abdominal viscera. In such cases, however, we usually find, within the diseased portion, pus, more or less mixed with coagulated blood. The consti- tutional symptoms are generally ushered in by shivering, along with frequency of the pulse, which is also sometimes full. The skin is hot, there is excessive thirst, frequently vomiting, and, with scarcely any exception, the patient speedily experiences great prostration of strength. Sometimes there is even a feeling of indescribable sinking, accompanied with great dejection of mind, there is pain of the head and back, with numbness, or pain in the extremities, which sometimes in- creases about the joints to an excruciating degree, so that the patient cannot get rest; but presently it becomes duller and more tolerable. There is usually, in severe cases, pain in the thorax, particularly in the left side, or, where this is wanting, there is anxiety, accompanied with despondency. The breath- ing is short, and sometimes difficult. The tongue, red and. dry. If we set aside the history of the disease, and the ex- ternal appearances, the symptoms are very much like those of typhus fever, accompanied with pulmonic or cardiac inflam- mation. Sometimes the fever assumes an intermittent appear- ance. The duration of these symptoms is variable, some are cut off in a week, others live for nearly two months. On examining the body, the vein, from the injured part upwards, 2 M