390 communication of a greater degree of action than its power is capable of sustaining. I might illustrate this principle by many explanations and examples. But whoever understands it, must at once perceive, without farther argument, that in the management of parts which have been extensively detached, we must prevent the communication of action from the neigh- bouring parts to the portion laid down, with a vigilance and solicitude proportioned to the injury which that portion has sustained, and its inability to sustain action. With regard to the management of the portion itself, we must be careful, upon the one hand, not to excite it by the stimulus of heat, or by any kind of irritation, and on the other not to allow its temperature to fall so low as would, in any degree, endanger its existence. If we prevent the communication of undue action to the part laid down, and take care that the two sur- faces be, in every point, kept in accurate contact, and no extraneous substance, or effused blood intervene, there is strong ground for expecting adhesion. The particular means for effecting these purposes I shall presently speak of with more advantage when I come to consider the treatment of wounds. O Here I shall be satisfied with merely noticing one or two causes of failure; and first, I need scarcely mention, that if a portion absolutely dead be laid down again with ever so much accuracy on the part from which it had been separated, it cannot unite. But a small portion of the body, although completely detached, may reunite if reapplied before its animal vitality be completely lost. But the probability of adhesion taking place is small. Next, I would remark, that when an incision has been made in a limb, or a flap raised up and then laid down, if either or both of the surfaces should inflame, adhesion does not take place. It may take place ultimately, but it must be through the medium of granulations. I have spoken of the effect of the communication of action in pro- ducing the inflammation of a part which had been laid down. But other causes may produce inflammation either in the flap or in the main portion of the limb. An irritable state of the parts, connected either with their condition, or dependant on that of the constitution, is very apt to produce inflam-