315 last section, this firm cellular tumour is the simplest which can exist. It often follows inflammation, and is a mid-stage between the continuance of the disease and restoration to health; but like most other half measures, is seldom satisfactory. It forms an adventitious growth which acts independent of the body, and therefore has no necessary limitation to its enlargement. But as the texture is not greatly different from that which the part formerly possessed, at least in its essential qualities, we find that the chief inconvenience is that arising from its progressive enlargement, such tumours sometimes acquiring an enormous size, or pressing on parts of import- ance to life. It may also happen that these tumours may be so acted upon in particular spots, as to be more or less excited. Inflammation followed by abscess may take place, which abscess may either burst, and heal, or form a sinus, or its surface may ossify. Inflammation may also, where the tumour is large, be productive of more or less sloughing, or a sore may form which is seldom granulating, but generally exhibits a firm hollow glossy surface, yielding a serous fluid. The textuie may also come to be changed in different parts, giving theie a new character to the tumour, and perhaps productive of greater hazard. The tendency to these differ- ent terminations may be greater or less, according to the original nature of the part on which the tuipour forms; for there is no texture in which this tumour may not form. Such a tumour may occupy the neck, and enlarge like another head, or may cover the half of the back; or when it affects the testicle may produce a tumour reaching to the knee, and yet in all these cases, the only inconvenience may arise from the bulk. We have no mean of curing this tumour, that is to say, of having it completely absorbed, more than we can procure the absorption of a supernumerary finger. We must either let the tumour alone, or cut it out; and wherever its enlargement would be unseemly, inconvenient, or dangerous, it ought to be early removed, as we know not to what extent it may grow, or what changes may take place in it. As an exception, however, to this rule, I would state, that if the patient be greatly advanced in life, or infirm, and more espe-