(32 exhalation, and in inflammation yield often much serous fluid, which dilutes the stools. The follicles are organs of secre- tion lodged in the mucous coat, and opening by small orifices on the surface. If we inject an irritating fluid into the intes- tine, or otherwise inflame it, or examine it after death from accidental inflammation, we find that invariably the coat is redder than it ought to be; for in health it is pale or pearl coloured. This redness is sometimes extensive, if not uni- versal ; in many others it is confined to patches, which may, however, be so large and numerous, as at a distance to make the surface appear altogether red. Usually the redness is greatest on those folds called valvulse conniventes, forming streaks. The colour often appears to be from infiltration or universal tinging of the coat; but on farther examination it will be found, that whilst there may be extravasation of blood, the part is red from clusters of vessels, which are sometimes distinctly and beautifully arborescent. Elsewhere, or in other degrees, points only are seen, so that the surface has a dotted appearance. These are supposed to be minute extravasations at the extremities of the villi, but this is not established, and I rather consider the puncturation to be, at least in many instances, vascular. When the inflammation is extensive and intense, the affected membrane has been compared to painted velvet; but still we may distinguish, in varying degrees, arbo- rescence, puncturation and infiltration, and the veins usually are most distinct. The membrane seems more rugous, or subdi- vided into numerous irregular divisions ol flat, soft, but thick, and almost gelatinous looking folds. With a good glass we observe in these many puckered orifices, the edges of which are rather redder than the rest of the surface, and contribute to increase the general tinge. These lead into little hollows also red. They are the enlarged follicles. Even before they enlarge, they may be distinguished for being filled with mucus. The whole surface is covered with a layer of altered mucus, and on washing this off, the vascularity is better seen, and the colour is sometimes very deep, or almost black. The membrane itself is found to be thickened and mot e pulpy, w ith an aspect like reddish fibrin. It is really softer, for it is more