454 previously diseased worse than they otherwise should have been. Thus, if a leg be ulcerated when a popliteal aneurism exists, the sore not only does not heal, but fatal gangrene is apt to take place. This is accelerated if the arteries have been ossified. An aneurism, in almost every case, pulsates. It is in one respect still an artery, at least is still associated with the action of the arterial system. The circulation can go on in two diffe- rent states, one with, one without pulsation. If we expose an artery, we may see no pulsation, and often we can feel none, yet the circulation is going on. In some cases, particularly of affections of the nervous system, the pulse entirely ceases, perhaps for many days, and yet the circulation continues; and when the patient gets better, the arteries again pulsate. In both of these examples, the heart beats, and the state is therefore different from syncope, where it acts very feebly, and the want of pulsation may be attributed to that cause. 4.heie can be little doubt that the pulse is owing to the action of the heart. Its frequency is regulated by the contraction of the heart, but its strength, or apparent bounding, is not dependant on the force of the contraction of the heart, but greatly on the state of the artery, both with regard to its vital and mechanical properties. In certain aneurisms of the arch of the aorta, although the heart does not appear to act moie forcibly than usual, yet the carotid beats strongly, and the pulse at the wrist is perhaps strong. Much depends on the contents of the artery, and the elasticity and vital action of the coats. The motion of the blood, although regulated by the heart, is not essentially dependant on it, for if we cut off the le«- of a frog, or tie a ligature round it, the blood con- tinues°to circulate in the capillaries, sometimes in a regular, often in an irregular, or even retrograde way. If, with the microscope, we examine the arterial branches leading to the capillaries, we sometimes see them alternately enlarging and contracting; in other instances, and these the most frequent, we see no change whatever, and very often, on examining the trunk in the leg or thigh, we cannot observe either the blood circulating, or the artery moving or changing its diameter.