. 267 the tract of the thread itself is ash coloured. Not a particle ol pus is discovered within the vessels by the microscope, they only contain blood, whilst the pus is formed at their orifices. No granulations are formed during pure suppuration, and the parts either remain stationary, or are absorbed. This gives rise to a division of the suppurative action, practically, into two classes—the stationary and the progressive. In the first, whether the secretion be furnished by a mucous membrane, °r the new organization in a phlegmon, no farther absorp- tion takes place. In the latter, layer after layer is absorbed, and usually this is preceded by a line of inflammation. From the circumstance of suppuration being in most instances pre- ceded by inflammation, Mr. Hunter considered it as a pecu- liar species of that action, and called it the suppurative inflammation. It is however quite a new and distinct action. V lien suppuration commences, inflammation ceases in that particular spot. The spot does not indeed return into a state o lealth, but assumes another action distinct both from that of health and inflammation. But, because inflammation is an exciting cause of suppuration, we are no more entitled to consider suppuration a modification of that exciting cause, han we are to consider inflammation as a modification of boiling water, because it may be produced by that agent, n animation is one action, suppuration is another, each preserving its peculiar and distinct characters. SECTION SECOND. The constitutional symptoms vary in d according t ti e nature of the part, and the extent of the action. But Whatever thetr degree may be, they are, unless mixed up with circumstances accidental, always the same in kind. I„slight cases suppuration is marked by irregular chills, alternated with heat, accompanied with frequency of pulse, and followed by more or ess perspiration. When ,mpor[ant «> purate, or when the action is extensive, these constitutional aL„Pda”tS m°re a,Ul m°re ProlonSc<l, and the “r aid i reCe,VeS ?“ "ame °f 'leCtic- In ove>-y case, n eveiy degree, the disease is one and the