310 it is to be useful, and therefore we must attend to the effect, for if not salutary, it may be hurtful. It may be given in small quantity internally, and also rubbed morning and evening on the tumour. The ointment may sometimes be mixed with powdered camphor. We also try the effect of applying cloths moistened with a mixture of equal parts of vinegar and camphorated spirit of wine, or small blisters frequently repeated. When a tumour, for instance, is pro- duced by a blow on the female breast, we should instantly apply leeches, and perhaps repeat the application, using in the intervals lotions of cold water; but if the tumour con- tinue after the active inflammation have passed off, we should immediately have recourse to the mercurial friction, with the use of laxatives, well knowing that if it be not absorbed, it must end in an organization over which we have no control. It is not sufficient to have the texture absorbed, we must not have it redeposited. Every tumour, even a cancer, is ab- sorbed, but it is replaced with similar substance and continues the same action. I am quite aware that I shall be told that chronic tumours of the thyroid gland, of the mamma and other parts of the body, have been discussed by the use of leeches, blisters, and the administration of purgatives, and such medicines as impi'ove digestion. I have only to reply, that we much oftener read of such successful cases than meet with them, and repeat, that no tumour possessing an organ- ization different from that of the inflammatory tumour, can be absorbed by artificial means, unless its peculiarity of action and structure depend on constitutional causes which we are capable of removing. Even such cases, when curable, manifest rather a specialty of action than a decided difference in organization from that produced by simple inflammation. It is only when the chronic inflammatory tumour is kept from healing by sympathetic influence exerted on it by other local conditions, as, for example, irritation of the bowels, &c. that the removal of such irritation by purgatives can have a good effect on the tumour. Tumours which possess an action dependant on the system, or which may be associated with the natural action of the constitution, are in one respect less