constitution, even although the vessel should not, as is not unfrequently the case, become inflamed for some way up the canal. I know it will be objected to this, that in amputation of limbs, we every day tie both the trunk and the branches with impunity. But setting aside the possibility that the exten- sive wound inflicted, and the necessary processes commenced, and carried on, immediately thereafter, were so powerful as to concentrate, as it were, the action and influence, and call it off more from the artery, we do know that, practically, there is a difference between the result of the two cases. For second- ary haemorrhage is much more frequent after tying an artery in a limb, otherwise entire, than after amputation. Another very material point to be attended to is, that in amputation, or the extirpation of tumours, even if the constitution should suffer, there is no part beyond the wound, and in a state pre- disposed to disease, which can be acted on, and manifest the influence exerted. In some cases, however, the wound or stump may be affected, and from this cause a tedious cure, if a cure be allowed, is the result. But in tying the artery of an aneurismal or wounded limb, we have a member beyond the injured part, brought into a new and disordered mode of acting, into a state not only less able to sustain the effect of any disturbed condition produced on the constitution, and, of course, acting on it, but also capable in its turn of acting on the whole system, and particularly on the rest of the members at and above the wound. No wonder, then, that the tied part of the artery should suffer, and the ligature fail. This constitutional effect, of merely tying arteries, is not con- fined to the human subject, but is universal amongst all animals. Dogs suffer, and if more than one main trunk be tied at the same time, they either sink or make a hairbreadth escape. I' rogs suffer more from having the popliteal artery or vein tied than from cutting off the limb, and often, they die within twenty-four hours. The immediate effect of tying the artery is to produce a languid circulation in the web, but each branch and capillary continues to receive and transmit some blood. If the animal do not recover, the circulation gradually ceases. It is probable that the same happens after