319 ture. When once it begins to increase, it spreads most rapidly in that direction where the resistance is least, and therefore on the lace it soon comes to form a prominent irre- gular tumour. If the eyelid be interested, we not only have an external tumour, but the disease penetrates into the orbit, and presses upon the eye. The pulsation of such a tumour is at first slight and indistinct, but if there be many arteries, it presently becomes very manifest, and is increased by eveiy exertion. In proportion to the degree of action, so is the feeling of distention; and when in a state of activity, the tumour feels hot, sometimes pretty acutely painful. In its ordinary condition, however, the sensation is rather that of uneasy throbbing than of pain ; but in particular circum- stances, both the tumour itself and all the neighbouring parts may be very painful, especially when the tumour is under a fascia. By repeated exacerbations, particular points come to project like tubercles; these are tender, more livid than the rest of the surface, and presently come to burst, discharging more or less blood. Coagulation stops the hemorrhage, and presently the orifice is covered with a scab. But the first renewal of excitement displaces this, or a new point bursts, and thus, by repeated and excessive hemorrhages, the patient is carried off. His death is often accelerated by pain and constitutional irritation. The venous differs from the arterial in its colour, which is a dark purple, inclining to blue, like a ripe grape. But when the covering is very thin, the hue is sometimes redder. It never pulsates, but when the vessels are excited, it becomes tense It is neither hot nor painful. It feels cold and flabby and the sensation on touching it has been aptly compared to handling the wattlings of a turkey. It can be emptied by pressure, and then its remains have a doughy feel. When tlie pressure is removed, it is slowly refilled. It is perhaps as apt to spread as the arterial, but is longer of bursting, and len it does, the haemorrhage is more easily restrained, variety of this is produced by the presence of a heater piopoition of cellular substance than of vessels, so that it cannot e made to disappear, or sometimes even lessen much