ration, is sure to prove a mean of farther wearing out the system. The violence of an action, or its special nature and length of duration, as well as the sympathies peculiar to the organ affected, can effect the degree of exhaustion; and, on the other hand, exhaustion renders all these more dangerous, and thus the one aids the other in destroying the system, and when we interfere, we must both attend to the action and the exhaustion, and also to the choice of our remedies, always being cautious not to propose such, as, without certainly relieving the disorder, shall in all probability increase the exhaustion. This is exemplified in the effect of large blisters in cases of great weakness. Exhaustion may also be caused by mere privation; for instance, by starvation, or loss of blood, or cold; and by these causes, if death do not take place, we may have partial loss of power, or paralysis, which sometimes remains long. Exhaustion, from these causes, is also often increased by an excited state which is produced. Connected with these states of shock and exhaustion, what- ever their degree may have been, I find it necessary to notice two terms, expressive of conditions, which require explanation. The first is the simplest, that of rallying, as it is called, which merely implies a recovery from a state of previous sinking or shock. It may consist in a mere rising or elevation, from a very low and dangerous degree, of what I have called secondary debility, or exhaustion, from the effect of a power- ful excitement, to such a state of less debility, or, if the expres- sion be preferred, of greater vigour, as shall manifest that the powers of life are not irrecoverably gone, but that the pei'son may still, if no disorder of the system take place, get on from one degiee of health and strength to a greater. It would be of incalculable importance could we understand the exact process of rallying or recovery, and the means of effecting or commanding it; for then, if we could only check the farther operation of the causa dolendi, we should retain life. But in medicine, as well as in surgery, we often lose the patient, although the disease may be subdued. A simple illustration may be found in haemorrhage. A person may lose so much blood as, although the flow be perfectly stopped, shall bring