79 mation. A little solution of salt rapidly produces inflam- mation of a serous membrane, but the nerve and its coat resists it much longer; but when once it takes effect, we find the coat of the nerve uniformly red, and on cutting it, the nervous substance comes out in a pulpy or fluid state. It is also rare to meet with pus in the substance of the nerve, though one or two examples are recorded, but it is not uncommon to find it in the cellular substance around it. There is always much pain attendant on this inflammation, and it often shoots along the course of the nerve. It is also not uncommon to find the parts to which the branches go, swelled and painful, if not actually inflamed. This is well seen in the case of the saphenus nerve, and in many other instances, as I shall avail myself of in speaking of the causes of inflammation. The brain receives its blood-vessels from those of the pia mater. They are numerous in the cortical, less so in the medullary substance. When inflamed, this circumstance should affect the tinge, but the natural colour of the part must also have an influence. The cineritious portion ought to be deeper, and really is more crimson than the medullary, which is lighter, or more vermilion. In the commencement, the substance actually the seat of inflammation has the mixed appearance of red jelly along with that of brain, whilst the portion in the immediate vicinity is little altered, except in having its vessels more numerous and larger, and these can be traced distinctly into the altered substance. In this seat of inflammation, we soon find striae, and presently the altered cerebral substance becomes softer, but preserving its red colour, the shade, however, varying. The organization is quite destroyed, and sometimes it is semifluid, with vessels still entire, like red threads ramifying through it; and perhaps aiound this, but sometimes irregularly embraced within its limits, we have reddish and extravasated texture, of a con- sistence denser than natural; but it is doubtful if this firm- ness be not altogether a secondary state, namely, the conse- quence of coagulation of a mixture of fibrin and albumen aftei death. This uniform softening, or mixture of that state