524- affected, caustic might do good, although it probably, in the fl,-st instance, would increase the spasm; but we never can with certainty fix on one part as the seat of irritation. The warm, has been pretty generally condemned, but some have spoken favourably of the cold, bath. I have never known it do good; and we are told that in Spain it was found worse than useless. Mercury does more harm than good. Digi- talis has been tried, probably because every thing else failed, but with no better success than might have been expected from it. It may poison, and thus sooner release the patient, but it cannot cure. Stimulants, such as brandy, wine, and antispasmodics, as musk and camphor, tonics, such as bark, have, with many other medicines, been tried, but never with good effect; often, I fear, with positive detriment. In consequence of wounds or local injury, the arteries of the part may be inflamed, and that inflammation may spread to a considerable distance, or even to the heart itself. I have, at page 75, described the appearance of an inflamed artery. Arteritis may appear under two forms. First, that in which it is confined to the arteries of an extremity. Second, when it is more extended, and particularly when it affects the aorta and its larger branches. In the first case, the nature of the disease must be ambiguous; for in so far as the artery is con- cerned, we should, at the most, only have pain in its tract, but this may also be produced by other causes. If the inflam- mation involve circumjacent parts, the diagnosis is still more difficult. Strong pulsations sometimes attend this disease, especially if the vessel yield, and the heart act strongly, but sensation can be no proof of strong pulsation : for in all ten- der and inflamed parts, pulsation is perceived. The discovery of pulsation in the tract of the artery, by placing the finger on it, is no certain proof, neither does its absence show that there is no inflammation. We can seldom say what precise constituent part of an organ or member is inflamed, and, indeed, inflammation is not often confined to one texture, or system, of a part. We therefore must receive many of the diagnostic marks of local arteritis as fanciful, nor have we