41 some peculiar modification, according to the nature of the cause. The aponeurosis, or fascia covering the muscles, affords a good example of the fibrous texture. When it inflames, it becomes thicker, more easily torn, softer, dull in its colour, with more or fewer red vessels, it loses greatly its fibrous composition, and if the disease go on, presently thin pus is formed on the surface. It has been said, that if it be exposed in an open wound, it becomes covered with vessels, and very red; but my observations and experiments would lead me to doubt if this be a general result. The sui'face becomes covered with blood, then this is exchanged for lymph or fibrin, which forms a thin coat adhering to the surface, and last of all granulations arise. If inflammation take place without exposure, we find that the same softening and increased vascularity, and change of organization take place, but the exudation of lymph is less observable, from its being blended with the super and subjacent parts. From all I have seen, I would say that no considerable inflammation can take place, without affecting both of these parts. The outer surface of the fascia involves the cellular substance, and that very often ultimately, or even very early affects the skin. We have, therefore, in many cases, that swelling and infil- tration of the cellular substance, which has been called diffused inflammation, and also erysipelatous inflammation of the skin. On the other hand, the inner surface of the fascia affects particularly the cellular matter under it, and over, as well as amongst the muscles, and in severe cases, the muscles themselves. On the outside of the fascia pus may form in the cellular substance, but it is particularly apt to do so in the inside, and often not immediately below it, but deeper, under the muscles, or near the bone. In the earlier stage, glairy or albumenous fluid is effused under the fascia. If an incision be made, it flows out like jelly, unless the bleed- ing from the opening prevents it from being seen. This case is often confounded with cutaneous inflammation, or erysipelas, but it is distinct from it. In whatever way the fascia becomes inflamed, we find, that there is very soon a considerable