tumour itself, and examine it in all its parts, to ascertain whether it can be compressed or diminished, or obscure pul- sation or thrilling can, under any circumstances, be detected. The effect of an aneurism, on the artery beyond it, is vari- able, and not always proportionate to the degree of circula- tion. Were there no direct transmission of blood through the sac, we could conceive that there might, at least till the collateral branches acquired a large size, be a diminished pul- sation in the limb below. But it is also possible for the pul- sation below to be bridled or diminished by the state of the sac. If there be a great quantity of coagulum in the sac, the pulsation in it is obscure, and so far as it is concerned, it can give little impulse to the artery below. If, by any cause the blood do not find its way freely and directly out by the infe- rior opening from the sac, the same must happen. It the collateral branches, under these circumstances, have not yet fully enlarged, or if the sac have acquired rapidly such a size as to compress the branches near it, the pulsation may also be affected. There is often pain in the aneurismal tumour, but still more frequently in the limb below, or parts beyond it. This may arise, not merely from the pressure made on the nerves, but also in some cases from the condition produced in the limb itself by the state of the circulation, and the same circum- stances may produce coldness, numbness, prickling, oedema, &c. The watery swelling may be so great as to involve and obscure the local or aneurismal tumour. The increase of the tumour also, by its pressure, as well as by communication of diseased action, injures the neighbouring parts, and causes both destruction, suppuration, and absorption. In the ham, for instance, the joint is affected, the bones more or less absorbed, the muscles diseased, and thus, even although the aneurism do not burst, it may prove fatal by its effects on the constitution. A true aneurism, whether formed by a partial or more extensive distention of the coats, is still in one sense an arte- rial tube, and as this tube or cavity, however shaped, becomes more or less thickened at its parietes by layers of coagulum,