349 action as mercury does on the syphilitic, and we shall then cure a cancer. But every candid man must admit, that this is not to be done by the use of any drug as yet employed. Cicuta, belladonna, arsenic, iron, iodine, &c. have all been tried completely, and have so completely failed, that he must be worse than simple who can now use them with expectation of success. The only reason I ever heard a sensible man give for prescribing any of these, was, “ If we don’t prescribe them, the person next consulted will.” It is thus that quackery, and the idle parade of physic is kept up, and old remedies, known to be of no avail, are persisted in, rather than inquiry made after new ones, which, if they do not succeed, at least cannot be more useless than those in fashion. But it will be said, what reply can we make to those cases which have been cured by these remedies ? the short and simple one, that they have no existence. We have, indeed, heard of instances of success, and the narrators, I doubt not, believed what they told; but it is one thing to cure a simple induration, and another to cure a cancer. I appeal to the experience of every medical man, whether I be not correct in the assertion I have made. And if these remedies had possessed any portion of their boasted power, why should our patients invariably die, or be saved only by a timely operation. I repeat that we know of no cure for cancer; and if any exist, it must be sought for, either in agents which have not yet been tried, or upon some principle which has not yet been developed. So then, it will be said, you will leave your patient without hope, a prey to misery and despair; you will stand supinely by, and see the ravages of disease, without making one effort to arrest its progress, or cheer the mind, even by the semblance of assistance. I know of no specific; but still something may be done for the benefit of a patient, who, even in a hopeless state, may have a mitigation of suffering. Cicuta, that boasted medicine, has no effect on cancer; it has no effect on any disease, unless it act as a narcotic, and this action is more ' injurious to the system when carried to the extent of allevi- ating pain, than a corresponding dose of opium, whilst it possesses, in no respect, a superiority. Arsenic is equally