341 gland, and also may be traced, if not as a distinct layer of fascia, at least as a lamina of cellular substance to the axilla. These layers are soon involved, and if the tumour be not extirpated, disease may thus be communicated both to the axilla and skin; and if in the operation the smallest portion of this diseased fascia be left, the disease is sure to return. The question of contamination of glands, as it has been called, by absorption, is not so simple as many suppose. From the first, absorption is going on; there is no period at which it does not exist; and in the first day of the existence of a cancerous texture, that texture is taken up and reproduced. But it is not perhaps for a considerable time that we discover marks of any affection of the glands. Do the lymphatics, in converting the cancerous texture into lymph, so alter its qua- lities as to prevent any risk of contamination ? And is it only the cancerous fluid, formed at first in the centre of a cyst, that resists this power of the lymphatics, and passes' on as a destructive virus to the gland ? This is, I believe, at least one way in which the evil is produced, for the vessels take up this fluid as an extraneous substance, and effect no change on it, whilst they do change the solid texture, which is still a part of the living body, and in so far (but unfortunately not far enough) under that influence of the system necessary to the preservation of the animal. Another way, perhaps not an uncommon one, is by considerable excitement of a specific or cancerous nature being produced at the extremity of the lymphatics, which by association occasions a similar action at the other end entering the gland. It has also been imagined that glands might swell from irritation, and subside when that was removed by the extirpation of the tumour. Dreadful indeed must be the fate of a patient who is treated on this principle; and granting the supposition correct in a few instances, bold must that man be who would stake the safety of a patient on such a speculation. This conceit, for I cannot give it a better name, of sympathetic swelling of the glands, cannot be too strongly reprobated by the operating surgeon, who is not entitled to leave one swelled gland, if he