58 mistaken for a purulent deposition. Clear albumen, or white of egg mixed with urine, incorporates with it, and only a very little remains clear at the bottom. The appearance of the urine is not changed ; but if heated, a cloud begins at the top, and increases till the whole become opaque or whey- coloured and turbid. Pure mucus, whether animal or vege- table, is not altered by mixture with the urine. These facts show, that in either acute or chronic inflammation of the mucous coat of the bladder, the discharge is neither pure mucus nor pure albumen, nor a mere increase of the natural secretion, but a modification of it. It is rare to find pus discharged from the surface of the bladder. If the inflammation be considerable, the whole substance of the bladder becomes contracted, thicker, and less tenacious. If, even after long continuance of disease, as, for instance, stone, the inflammation extend to the peritoneal coat, it is apt to spread extensively all at once along that membrane, and the patient dies. It is said that animal mucus, for instance, that in the tears, or nasal secretion, absorbs oxygen from the atmosphere, and becomes yellow; but this can seldom be the cause of yellow secretion met with in the eye, or from the nose in catarrh, the change being effected by the vessels. In many cases of inflammation, the discharge does not assume a puru- lent appearance, but is spread over the surface like a thin layer of coagulated albumen. If any one will pour boiling water on the clear viscid mucus expectorated from the trachea in health, the albumen it contains will be found to become coagulated, making it turbid, white, or ash-coloured, exactly like the exudation which often covers the inflamed membrane. In many cases the fauces are covered with this, and may at any time receive an appearance of a similar nature by having nitrate of silver applied. The secretion becomes first white, and then darker. It is supposed that a false membrane, as it is called, consisting of a layer of lymph or fibrin, may be formed as on serous membranes, but this is doubtful. That such substances are apparently formed in the larynx is noto- rious ; but it is not yet proved that they are exactly the same as those formed on the pleura. On the tonsils we oiten Imd