12 medulla, an,] a general effect produced, or some particular and more remote sympathy excited. If a scirrhous tumour iave its action in a manner confined to itself, and exert no sympathetic influence, the system suffers little or nothing. It is very sparingly supplied with nerves, and the effect produced on the origin of them, may be so slight, as not to produce extensive consequences, and also likely to cease, if its extremities were removed, so that a cure might be accom- plished. But if even before it become painful, or inflame, or suppurate, a more powerful influence be exerted on the origins, we find, that the whole system may be impaired, or it may be, parts more directly sympathizing with the organ, may suffer, and a state so induced may not be removed by the removal of the local cause, but the disease is by the state of the nerves, either reproduced in the part, or appears elsewhere. The same holds true with regard to other conditions. If in consequence of an injury done to a nerve, severe pain be felt, and neuralgia produced, dividing the nerve, or cutting out a part of its trunk, or even amputating the limb, does not certainly cure the disease; the state of the origin of the nerve being such, that unless that origin, and some of the neighbouring portion of medulla were destroyed, or in other words, that particular nerve every where totally obliterated, no good could be done. It matters not then whether the whole nerve be affected at its origin, or only that portion connected with sensation, or secretion, or organization, in any of these cases, there may be an influence extended to the whole system, or returned as it were to the extremities of the nerves, so as to increase the effect there. This forms what strictly speaking is re-action, a term very differently employed, how- ever, by many who confound under this name other distinct processes. Whether we confine our view to the condition of a single nerve, or extend it to many, still the term ought to be confined to this direct reciprocation. It is scarcely necessary to mention, that no one can suppose, that the influence exerted by the extremity on the origin, is to be manifested by the same phenomena at both places, whether the mode be that of sympathy of equilibrium or association. No one