165 layer of false membrane, as it has been called. This is too frequently seen in the trachea, when the membrane is often so rapidly inflamed, that it is affected like a serous membrane, and no mucus is secreted. In certain membranes, particu- lar]}' the inner coat of the intestine, serous or thin albumenous fluid ii> thrown out, and often abundantly. So long as the textuie of the mucous membrane is inflamed, or remains in an unnatural state, the follicles, even if they had escaped an equal participation in the inflammation, are excited to undue action; or the enlarged state of these vessels, and increased susceptibility of their nerves, which took place when they did participate, must tend to keep up an increased and improper discliaige, which, in many instances, whether coming from the intestine, trachea, or urethra, will be found to depend on, or be connected with, a certain change of organization more or less extensive, and analogous to chronic inflammation. If the inflammation run high, then the mucous coat is either abra- ded, and ordinary suppuration takes place, or we find gan- grenous patches. This is particularly the case in the intes- tine, and then, in some degree, its peritoneal coat may suffer. The appearance of the discharge from mucous membranes varies according to the intensity and stage of the inflamma- tion, and partly according to the natural kind of secretion. It may be clear, and almost mucous, or it may contain a large proportion of albumen, or so much fibrin as to form shreds and little lumps by its coagulation. It may be thick and white like starch, or yellow like pus. Diseases of this kind constitute a very important class. Some of them will come to be considered hereafter, but many of the most serious belong to the practice of physic. The effects produced in this, are of the same nature as in the phlegmonoid, inflam- mation. The pain is generally less than in inflammation of the skin, cellular substance, or serous membrane. It is some- times trifling, or rather a feeling of heat or itchiness, unless mechanical or chemical stimuli be applied, in which case the pain is often considerable; but even excessive pain may be pioduced by the great irritability communicated to the nemh- bouiing muscular fibres, whereby spasmodic action is readily