23 sustaining disease, does not depend on the absolute quantity of energy. Connected with this, is often an absence of any peculiar tendency to such important sympathies as would injure the system. Some, have the power of speedy restora- tion or recovery, others, run from great susceptibility very readily into disease, by slight causes, and may sink soon under it. Some organs in different individuals, and at different periods of life, are better able to resist or sustain than others. Strength, in the ordinary meaning of the term, is quite different from health; for many act more weakly than others of the same age, and apparent constitution, and yet are in perfect health, and those who are apparently in high health, are not the strongest in a medical sense. It will be well to bear in mind, that in one respect, there are two principal sources of disease : the state of the origin, and that of the extremity of the nerves ; and causes acting on either of these, may produce diseases apparently the same. Next, in our arrangement we might proceed to state, that the origin of the nerve may be in a state of excitement, or of inactivity, or torpor. Then, the effect may be confined to the part, or to the nerves originally implicated, or it may be extended to other organs, or the general system may be involved; but on investigation it will be found, that there is perhaps scarcely an example of a universal disease, or a general disease, in the strictest sense. The whole, or greater part, of one or more systems may be affected, such as the skin, heart, nervous system; yet other systems or parts may not suffer at all, or only in a general, not a specific way by sympathy. They may, as for instance, the muscular system, suffer by weakness, &c. but not be affected by the specific disease. Thus we have the multiplied varieties of excitation, or irritation, each differing in its nature and degree, as well as in the extent and direction of the sympa- thies induced; and in a multitude of instances, we can scarcely say, that action is either partially increased or diminished in its degree, or that there is either more or less absolute excite- ment, but only a variation in the action. Thus, there is no possibility of forming a simple system of nosology, the com-