52 is arachnitis. When this is caused by an external injury, it does not always commence under the spot which has been struck, but sometimes on the opposite side; and although it be in a few instances confined to the vicinity of the injury, yet in general it spreads extensively, and in almost every instance ends in suppuration. It appears earlier or later, according to the violence and complication of the injury; often about the sixth day, but there is great latitude, for it may begin on the second or third day, or not till near the end of the third week, but this is rare. It usually runs its course rapidly; that is, within five or six days, but it may be pro- tracted for a fortnight or longer. The essential symptom appears to be pain, varying, however, in its nature from that of agonizing intensity to the feeling of weight or tightness. Fever invariably attends this, ushered in generally, but not necessarily, by chills. The state of the brain, however, may have a great influence on the pulse, as well as the degree of heat, so that in a few instances, the heart, from the first, beats slowly, and the temperature is not increased. Other symp- toms besides those peculiar to inflammation may arise from the nature of the organ, and the portion of it principally affected. Thus, if the membrane covering the hemisphere be chiefly affected, the patient is delirious, whilst if that covering the base of the encephalon be the seat of disease, somnolency or stupor are more frequent. The former is the most frequent seat in adults, the latter in infants and young people; but in adults the inflammation is apt to spread to the base, but under any circumstances they are not, cceteris paribus, so readily or so early affected with drowsiness as children. The involvement of nerves arising at the base of the skull, and going to important parts, often is productive of complications, which may call off the attention from the primary disease till it be too late ; vomit- ing, purging, cough, or spasm about the larynx, convulsions and palsy, are of this description. It is not, however, neces- sary for me here to detail all the symptoms of this disease, but rather to point out the state of the membrane itseli. But I cannot refrain from noticing, that females are particularly liable to a congestion of the vessels of the pia mater, or a