4.52 circulation came to be circuitous, though still the orifices, emitted into the sac enough to increase it, and prevent the artery from being obliterated. I he destruction of the direct circulation would lead to a natural cure, were the blood per- manently prevented from passing in any quantity from the orifices of the vessel into the sac. This rarely happens, the blood extends itself, the sac, if sac it can be called, for it is an inorganic substance, is always more or less on the increase, the parts become separated and diseased, and inflammation leads ultimately to sloughing of the coverings. But in true aneurism, there is, it may be said, no necessity for this, as there is a conduit, though an unshapely one, more or less organized, and a direct circulation or passage through this conduit. Now, this is to a certain extent true, and an aneu- rism may remain long, if not stationary, at least without mak- ing much progress. This leads us to inquire into the usual course. In false aneurism, the progress is only bridled by the resistance of the fascia and surrounding parts, and by the for- mation of a strong lining of coagulum within the cavity. In true aneurism, the progress is checked by the resistance of the thickened coats and sheath, by a distinct sac, and by the formation of different layers of coagulum within that, which strengthen its walls, and retard its sketching; nay, faithei, when only, or chiefly, one spot of an artery has been diseased and given way, so as to allow of the formation of a chamber, communicating by a very small orifice, the blood may coagu- late completely in that chamber, and if the parts were to con- tinue otherwise sound, might effect a natural cure. But it would be quite unwarrantable to stop at this point, for we find that the sac, whether that be formed wholly by the distended cellular coat, or by the diseased coats of the artery, or by both, does undergo changes. It is more or less organized, it is a living part, and like a tumour performs certain actions pecu- liar To itself. Like a tumour, it may remain for a time sta- tionary, but it more frequently, like it, becomes active, it grows or expands. But this expansion would be of less consequence, except in a mechanical view, by the pressure it might make on other parts, were it the only effect, for not only does the sac