\' 425 the artery. This clot, doubtless, may encroach more or less on the caliber of the vessel, which will also be diminished according to the nature of the wound; but still some blood passes along, and there is, therefore, in such a case, not the same effort made to enlarge the collateral branches. That the main trunk of the vessel does actually transmit blood, is proved by those instances, where incisions have been made upon the artery in order to tie it. No haemorrhage has taken place, even although the wound have been well cleaned with the sponge. The artery seems in a manner resolved to justify Mr. Hunter’s theories, whose disciples might say, that it cun- ningly pretended to have healed. In such circumstances, a ligature has been, from the difficulty of discovering the wound, applied below the injury, when instantly the blood has sprung, demonstrating that it formerly had been able to find a passage along the vessel, and was now forced out by the vis atergo, at the covered slit. Such oblique, or slit wounds, are most annoying to the surgeon. For they bleed frequently, and stop before he arrive, and when he does cut down upon the vessel, he finds it often difficult to see the injured spot, for as little blood may flow as if not an artery were in the part. A natural cure is scarcely ever obtained. It is even less to be expected than in a complete division in the same order of arteries. There is always, in an wounded artery, a tendency to retro- grade circulation in the portion immediately below the injury, and, therefore, we must, if the wound is to be enlarged, or the case treated as a simple open wound, tie both ends of the divided artery ; or if it be merely punctured, we must use a double ligature, one above, and another below the injury. But if aneurism have formed, and the cavity be circumscribed, it is sufficient to tie the trunk of the artery above this, and without opening the sac or bloody cavity. The blood is thus prevented from passing out by the upper portion of the wounded vessel, the effused blood coagulating, or almost even if in a fluid state it occupy the cavity, it can afford a sufficient resistance to the passage of blood from the under part, the retrograde motion being comparatively slow, and the impulse