508 stomach, irritating faeces, or costiveness, too much blood, &c. In severe, or very painful wounds, and accidents, we must have immediate recourse to the two first means, and afterwards call in the assistance of the third, which would be too slow to be trusted to alone. It ought to be an axiom in surgery, that pain is injurious when it goes to an excessive degree, whether it fol- low an accidental injury, or an operation, and, therefore, it must at all hazards be controlled. The exact degree of pain which may be termed excessive, must vary according to the state of the patient, the nature of the wound, and the part affected. No patient is to be allowed to complain much, if we can by any moderate quantity of opium relieve him. But if we have any reason to suppose that sensibility is increased by the state of the bowels, a purgative must precede the opiate, and be afterwards alternated with it. If the action of the vas- cular system seem rather to be the cause, venesection must take the lead, and be followed by the laxative and opiates. In entering on the consideration of irritation, it will be necessary, first, to affix a meaning to the term, and also to that of irritability. The parent of all the family is the Latin word ira, and from this we have have both irritatio and irrita- bilis. We have also irritamen, or irritamentum, the stimulus to irritation. But we have no substantive in that lancfuao-e lor the principle of irritability, this being a word of modern date. When attention came to be paid to the nature of the animal economy, inquiry was made, how, and why, a muscle contracted, and the principle by which it was supposed to do so, was called irritability. Glisson evidently makes this syno- nymous with vitality, and includes in its operations not only contractility and sensibility, but also sympathy. “ Sunt dif- ferentiae quidam irritabilitatis hie quosque memoranda?, quae etsi ad causas irritantes referri quaeeant, magis tamen ipsam irritabilitatis constitutionem, quam differentias causarum ejus- dem, sapiunt.” Haller afterwards entered more fully into the subject, and divided the effects of vitality into two great classes, irritability and sensibility, which he considered as principles independent of each other. So far as the Hallerian doctrine goes, irritability is synonymous with contractility,