56 brane in which the follicles are placed, may yield fibrin so as to form a layer. This does not always depend on the degree of inflammation, for it may be exhibited in a very moderate, though more frequently in a high degree of disease, and is also more apt to take place where the glands or follicles are fewest. Inflammation of the simple mucous membrane is marked by the following characters. It generally begins in different points, which form red patches partly from slight extravasa- tion, partly from arborescent vessels; and these incipient points often retain the greatest intensity, as we see in the urethra, where, after death, parts here and there are almost gangrenous. In those membranes which are naturally pale, the redness is at first slightest, and from first to last it may be trifling; whereas in those which are red in health, it is very early deep, and almost purple. This colour is durable, and remains after death, and even maceration; and is not, as we see in the inside of the cheek, readily removed by pres- sure. There is always an infiltration ot either serum or bloody fluid into the submucous cellular texture, sometimes very trifling, sometimes considerable. In particular cases, the effusion is so great into these cells as to cause much swelling, and give an oedematous character to the inflammation. 1 his is well seen in the larynx and about the glottis, where the tume- faction is sometimes such as to produce suffocation. 1 his infil- tration, together with softening of the cellular tissue, renders the mucous coat more easily separated. The coat itself becomes more sensible, is increased in density, and is slightly rugous, more or less, according to the number of papillae. It loses its transparency, and the follicles increase in size and in vascularity. All these circumstances cause a thickening of the coat, which is often one of the most troublesome effects, as we find in the urethra, and this membrane illustrates farther the history of inflammation ; for we find, that even when the local disease has been very circumscribed, the excitement is more extensive, and the secretion greatly increased, which corroborates the view I have already given of the mode in which inflammation often acts on the mucous follicles, namely, merely as an initant oi