r/7 canal sympathized. Accordingly, we have known fatal coma and other bad effects, succeed the injudicious use of repellants in erysipelas. Erythema may attend wounds under two circumstances. It may arise directly from the irritation of the wound, or it may be more dependant on a bad state of the system. In wounds of tendonous parts, and fibrous membranes, more paiticulaily if these be lacerated, irritated by the presence of foieign substances, especially if these be of either a stimulating 01 poisonous nature, or have been much and suddenly dis- tended, or otherwise affected, so as to be brought into a state of much excitement or inflammation, erythema is apt to be produced. In this case the skin inflames, from sympathy with a part in its vicinity, which is in a state of great irrita- tion and high sensibility. This state may exist without actual inflammation, but in injured parts it seldom does, and is generally combined with inflammation. The preventive here, supposing the constitution to be good, is to have the part at first cleaned, and every mean resorted to for produc- ing adhesion, and preventing inflammation. Even if union of the deeper parts cannot be effected, or inflammation of these prevented, it is of importance to get the skin to adhere, as it is thus less apt to inflame, than when in a state of raw- ness and irritation. This also lessens the tendency of the parts below to inflame. When the disease has taken place in a good constitution, the practice is to allay pain and irrita- tion of the injured part, or promote suppuration if adhesion have failed. These purposes are best fulfilled by occasionally wetting the parts with water slightly cold, that is, nearly tepid, or with water mixed with a little spirits, or weak solution of acetate of lead. Cold water seldom agrees, and when of the winter temperature, generally increases the pain, and if lornr continued, weakens the part. Hot water is not proper, on the other hand. The patient’s sensations should be attended to in regulating the temperature; but, especially when the parts below the erythema are inflamed or irritated, tepid fomenta- tions are both the most useful and the most agreeable Yet tfiere are exceptions to this rule, where the temporary N