394 iunction fit the same time that it changes the texture of the membrane. This becomes highly vascular, thicker, and furnishes a secretion, or substance, more or less resembling coagulable lymph. If both surfaces be kept in contact, and both have acquired the same action, inosculation of vessels, and conjunction of opposite spots will take place, so that the two former layers of membrane are converted into one, of the nature of a simple investment, and not of a secreting mem- brane. This investment, or new structure, sometimes has the intermedium so completely absorbed, and the two layers, or opposite surfaces, are so perfectly consolidated, that after the lapse of time, they appear to be but one thin membrane common to both sides. But in many other cases, it will be found that the two original layers still remain intimately attached to their respective surfaces; the one, for example, to the surface of the thorax, and the other to the surface of the lungs, whilst they are more loosely connected to one another by mere cellular tissue, which can be easily torn. In all cases the intermedium is very thin, and adhesion does not readily succeed if it be thick. In some instances there is scarcely any intermedium at all, but the vessels directly coalesce; and if the surfaces be easily torn from one another, they bleed, and have a raw, rough, or granulated aspect. In general, however, there is a thin intermedium, which becomes cellular, and thus differs from the intermedium in direct adhesion without inflammation, w’hich by degrees assume the nature of the divided and reunited texture. The intermedium in inflammatory adhesion is not thick, and, fortunately, in gene- ral, becomes cellular; for if it were of the nature of coagulable lymph, and retained this character, it would be more or less of the nature of a new growth or tumour, which has already been considered, and come to have actions of its own, independent of the part from which it grows, or to which it is connected. Such adhesion, then, would never be free from danger, or at least the chance of enlarging, and we never could inject a hydrocele without being apprehensive, at some future time, of a morbid tumour involving the proper substance of the testicle. When there is much coagulable lymph effused,