121 what is seen in the vessel itself sometimes; for when looking O at an artery filled with stagnant, and apparently homoge- neous blood without globules, we see the cloud begin to dis- solve as it were; and as it breaks down and moves along, globules reappear, and the denser and deeper coloured fluid, in the vessel behind this, begins to move forward. We may in other cases see a vessel with pale thin fluid, showing that it is contracted, and contains few globules, throwing its contents into a red vessel, where the thicker blood moves slowly. When the motion seems to be stopped, and the globular appearance is lost, both the one and the other may for a time be restored by the animal struggling, or by the speculum throwing heat on the web; other stimulants act much more slowly in this way. I might select from my notes expe- riments in a varied manner, which should fill many pages, for I have not inquired slightly into the subject, but I have given quite sufficient to corroborate the matter of fact stated by those who have published on this subject; and, so far as I have gone, I appear to confirm the opinion, that in inflam- mation the blood is stagnant in the capillaries, and loses its globular appearance. But notwithstanding this, I think I can point out a misconception. From the result that I have stated, of many experiments, it appears that the globules are not lost, but only so condensed that they cannot be detected; for whenever motion is excited, and the parts of the fluid more separated, or the blood allowed to flow from an opening, globules appear within a second of time. I admit, that in many cases no globules can thus be made to appear, but then no motion is excited, and the blood in most, if not in every case, is dead and coagulated. The other part of the opinion is, I suspect, no less a mistake. It would make the proximate cause of inflammation to consist in debility, or indeed total loss of action ot the capillaries or extreme vessels. Now, there are many facts which would make us pause before we adopted this. First, if it be the case that the evolution of be|it is dependant on the action of the extreme vessels, and not on the larger branches, it is evident that the capillaries 01 small arteries cannot be lessened in their action in inflam-