509 mediate inflammation or irritation, constitutes a case which we at once declare to be incurable. And, therefore, we, with as little hesitation, would say, amputation must, as the only chance, be performed. But there is another attendant on injuries which has been noticed, which may suspend, or alto- gether preclude the performance of this operation. If a limb be crushed, and completely disorganized from the middle of the thigh downward, and its vitality altogether or almost ex- tinguished, the limb, it will be said, is lost. It is virtually amputated; for it is already cut off from all connexion with the system, and we can have no hesitation, in making a regular and clean amputation of it. But, before we proceed to this hasty conclusion, we must remember, that such a destruction has not been accomplished, without a tei'rible shock to the system, and the whole frame is brought into that sunk and debilitated state, which, so far from being able to bear additional injury, is scarcely able to rally from that which has already been inflicted. In cases, then, of great shock and sinking, no operation can be performed, without fear of completely overpowering the system, and destroying- all hope of recovery. Shall we then, with a shattered limb, and a mangled, almost lifeless, extremity, leave the patient without one effort to save or place him in a way of recovery ? Assuredly not, if, by amputation, we can do him good. But in our anxiety to avoid one evil we must not run upon an- other, and go through all the parade of an operation, and inflict all its additional pain, and its corresponding exhaus- tion, in a case scarcely capable of bearing up under what has already taken place, where we have no appearance of rallying, and every symptom of approaching dissolution. Shall we, under these circumstances, disturb the few remain- ing moments of life, and torment him whom we cannot cure? If the patient cannot rally from the pure effects of shock, caused by the accident, much less can he sustain the new injury inflicted by the surgeon. We must wait for recruiting, before we take the knife; but not beyond that. He who operates during the period of immediate and great debility, and he who waits until that have passed off, and inflammatory