78 Inflammation of the vein may spread upward or downward ; and although it sometimes makes a continuous progress, yet very often there are considerable intervening portions which escape. The course is not always confined, even when it goes toward the heart, to that direction, for it may also strike ofl', as, for instance, from the veins of the arm to the jugular vein, and the sinuses of the brain may participate, or the inflam- mation may even begin there. In the majority of fatal cases, the heart and lungs participate, and often the most pain, even if there be much swelling of the extremity, is felt in the chest. In the rabbit, I have seen the pericardium very vascular, and containing serum, whilst the lungs were partially inflamed. The diaphragm also participated. The inflammation begins in the human subject soon after the application of the cause; in the greatest number of cases, within twenty-four hours, or on the second day, rarely beyond the sixth, and that late commencement is not common. Its course is seldom run to a fatal termination in less than a week; sometimes it is pro- tracted for near a fortnight, or it may even continue, although ultimately fatal, for six or seven weeks. A nerve consists of many divisions of medullary substance, each enclosed in a very fine sheath, connected with a general covering of the cord, which, with its subordinate canals, has been called neurilemma. This is very vascular ; and when the nerve is inflamed, the membrane may be seen to be finely injected, and the whole cord becomes of a bright red colour. This redness is not only produced by vessels, but also by infil- tration of bloody serum, or sometimes blood itself, between the various subdivisions : and thus the whole cord is thickened and swelled, partly by this, and sometimes by fibrin, and if a section be made, it is uniformly red or stained. If the inflamma- tion proceed, we find that the texture is altered. The medulla becomes softer or more fluid; the neurilemma is softer and thoroughly injected, and the whole substance is more easily torn. The inflammation is greatest at the part most acted on, and less as we recede, so that in one specimen we may see the characters of different degrees of inflammation. It is not easy, without considerable violence, to produce decided inflam-