periosteum, when near the surface, the greatest relief is derived from the application of cold. I have already stated the result of experiments, which prove that cold applied to the surface can diminish the tem- perature of internal parts, but still we find from practice that we must be prudent in our application, and be regulated by the effect. Benefit from cold when the texture is not cellular, is, however, by no m§ans to be calculated on. When the great mass of inflamed texture is cellular, but other parts have participated, as may happen, in injuries of the extremities, the relief obtained by the action of cold on the extended cellular affection may thereby afford a general mitigation of the whole disease, which could not have been expected, nor have taken place, had the skin and subcutaneous texture been affected in a smaller proportion. The application of tepid water or poultices to the surface is often of signal service. It relieves the pain, and lessens inflammation. The operation, perhaps, is neither uniformly the same, nor simple. It may act as an anodyne, or soother of sensation, which is always useful, as on the other hand, whatever increases pain does harm, unless it be speedily followed by a positive mitigation of sensation. It may also act by increasing the determination of blood to the extreme vessels, and thereby lessening that to the deeper parts. A tendency to cutaneous secretion is likewise in some cases produced, which will have a similar effect. On the same prin- ciple too that cold so often fails to do good, or is positively productive of harm, it may, by gently exciting die action of the surface, diminish the morbid action below. Whether cold or tepid applications be employed, and whether pre- scribed on theory or sanctioned by experimental trial, they ought to be pretty extensively used, and not confined to the mere spot. If the wrist or ankle, for instance, be affected the whole hand or foot, and part of the arm or leg, should be immersed in the fluid, or covered with the cloths. The exact temperature of both kinds of applications is to be determined by the effect of relieving sensation, and not by thermome- tucal rules. I have made experiments on the inflamed foot ° lle lroo’ lo ascertain the comparative effects of ice and