357 very strange language to speak of a painful operation, which we know to be ultimately unsuccessful, as if it were an ano- dyne. Nevertheless, experience confirms me, in making the assertion, that wherever we can remove all the parts appa- rently contaminated, we not merely often succeed in procur- ing a considerable period of health, but, also, when a relapse takes place, the death is less miserable, appearing to be as much connected with a general breaking up of the constitu- tion as immediately dependant on local disease. It is true, these advantages are purchased at the expense of all the terror and pain attendant on an operation; and it is but fair that the patient should be apprized of the nature of the en- terprise. There are doubtless instances where the wound never heals, but where a cancerous sore immediately succeeds the operation. This arises from our not having succeeded in removing the whole of the diseased texture, either from defi - cient attention, or from the marks of disease being too ob- scure for observation. In this case, the disease certainly makes more rapid progress than if no operation had been performed. But the constitution suffers more rapidly, the local pain is generally less, and if the patient die sooner, she at least, I think, dies easier. Still, however, I would not be understood as recommending an operation under these circum- stances ; on the contrary, I have decidedly said, that where we cannot remove the whole of the disease, we ought not to take up the knife. I merely state what appears to me to be the fact, in those instances where we are deceived. Where the tumour adheres to the pectoral muscle we have no reason to expect that we shall be able to eradicate it, and ought not to operate. It has been stated, on high authority, that a woman has a better chance of a complete cure if the opera- tion have been performed late than early, provided the dis- ease continue limited, as there is a greater probability that, in that case, it remains local. I fear there is a fallacy in this argument; for, in a disease, the character of which is not to remain stationary, it is agreeable to the principles of common sense (no bad guide) to believe, that the longer it has existed, the greater and the more extensive must the contamination