459 situated over the humeral artery, or in the thigh, there is seldom any difficulty, even if they do pulsate, in making the distinction. But smaller cysts or glandular abscesses in the ham have been mistaken for aneurism, and being deep they cannot always be so easily examined as in some other situations. But the same inquiry is, as far as possible, to be made into the universality of the expansion or pulsation, and sometimes by bending the knee, so as to relax the popliteal fascia, the tumour is felt less fixed, and with less motion. There have, however, been mistakes made, and the artery tied where no aneurism existed. I need scarcely after what I have said, animadvert on the mistake which has arisen from an artery being felt to pulsate as it traversed a tumour, for in that case, no attention can have been paid to the absence of pulsation elsewhere. I have never known an instance where an artery, by passing through a tumour, or being encircled by it, produced any thing like pulsation in that tumour. I can conceive the possibility of this happening, were the artery to be surrounded by an encysted tumour with very fluid con- tents, but this must be indeed a rare occurrence. The pulsation, of an aneurism is sometimes obscure, and requires attention to discover it. But it may also entirely cease. This may happen from the sac being entirely, or almost entirely, filled with coagulated blood, and then the natural cure is nearly, if not completely effected, so that we have nothing to regret as to the ambiguity of the case. Pul- sation may, however, cease, although a cure be not approach- ing, for, especially if the sac be large, there may be so dense a lining of coagulum, such a thickness of parietes, such a soli- dity of the aneurism, as to prevent pulsation being perceived. This will more particularly happen, if the tumour be firmly bound down by a strong fascia, or wedged in a deep resisting cavity, such as the ham, where, although the tumour may not be solid, but some direct circulation still go on, it feels hard even as a scirrhus. In these cases, great attention is requisite, and we must inquire carefully into the history and previous symptoms, and press both above and below the tumour alternately, whilst we at the same time grasp the %