396 into, or the passage of any fluid through the aperture, and to keep the aperture from cicatrizing, till it contract to a degree productive of obliteration. This would naturally take place if every thing could be prevented from entering the aperture, or the excretion, for instance, passing along the excretory duct, from flowing out by the aperture in its side. It may also occasionally be promoted by touching the part lightly with nitrate of silver. W hen the function of a canal or tube is destroyed, and particularly, if at the same time it be irritated, and its sides allowed to come in contact, it is apt to be obliterated. An excietoiy duct, although obstructed, cannot be obliterated, because it remains distended; an example of which we have in the ductus communis choledochus. But an artery obstructed at any part has its function thereby completely destroyed, and as the blood, which formerly passed through it, gets easily off by the branches above, we find that the portion of the main trunk, between the obstruction and the last branch, con- tracts to a very small diameter; and the little blood that enters this contracted portion, not passing on, coagulates, and acts both as a plug and an irritant. It is absorbed by degiees, but in the same degree the tube contracts still more, in a manner somewhat similar to the contraction in granula- tions. The area is obliterated, the artery is converted into a mere solid cylinder, and often, at last, nothing more than a filament is left to mark its former situation. In this way, for instance, the ductus arteriosus is obliterated, and in this way, every artery which is tied is obliterated, although in the latter case the process is more complex and expeditious, being aided by the excitation of the ligature. Mr. Hunter said, that parts were obliterated or absorbed because they were no longer useful. This is confounding all distinction between final and efficient causes. They are absorbed, because losing their function, they lose their natural action, and fall, partly mechanically, partly vitally, into a state natu- rally, and without either wisdom or deliberation, leading to their alteration and obliteration.