advance the cure, we must vary the dressing the moment that we find the progress become either stationary or retrograde. Of the salves, one of the best is one of the ung. hyd. nit. dil. If this still smarts, it may be farther reduced by the addition of simple ointment. Next to this, we may place an ointment composed of an ounce of ung. resin, mixed with a drachm of hyd. precip. rub. The strength of these salves must be increased or diminished at different times according to the sensations of the patient. At each time of dressing, it is sometimes useful to wash the sore with a lotion, at other times it is dressed merely with a piece of lint dipt in that lotion, which may consist of solution of nitrate of silver in distilled water, in the proportion of 2 grains to an ounce, or such other strength as does not smart much. Solutions of other metallic salts of the same strength may next be employed, such as sulphate of zinc, or of copper, or a mixture ol a scruple of calomel with four ounces of lime water, or of oxymuriate of mercury and lime water in the proportion of 8 grains of the former to 6 or 8 ounces of the latter may be used. Water acidulated with nitrous acid, of the strength of very weak vinegar, may be employed: port wine is also useful. Most of these applications, whilst they stimulate the surface, also coagulate the discharge, and cover that surface with a kind ol natural dressing. The same remark applies to sprinkling the surface with red precipitate. I have omitted many other applications of less approved efficacy, such as bile, muriate of soda, camphor, &c. As the improvement gener- ally takes place first towards the circumference, it is some- times necessary to use different strengths of the same applica- tion or totally different applications to the central portion and circumference of the sore. The edges of such sores are usu- ally callous, and it has been proposed to destroy them by the application of nitrate of silver, or rubbing them with strong mercurial ointment, or some have gone the length of paring them off with the knife. But nothing in general is so effec- tual in promoting their absorption as pressure, which, even when salves or lotions are employed in preference to the adlie- u\o plaster, should always be taken advantage of to as great a