328 we might suppose that a speedy removal might save the eye, but in every instance which I have seen, the disease was so far advanced, as to require the orbit to be completely cleared. It is well if it have not extended to the cheek; or, the floor of the orbit being absorbed, into the antrum. A tumour of this nature, or of the granulated kind, may form originally in the antrum, constituting one species of a very formidable disease, the farther consideration of which I shall postpone until I treat of the diseases of the antrum. Mr. Abernethy describes, under the name of tuberculated sarcoma, a tumour which I have either not seen or not recog- nized, and therefore must describe on his authority. It affects chiefly the lymphatic glands of the neck, but may also appear in the liver, &c. It consists of an aggregation of roundish tumours, of a colour varying from yellowish to brownish red, and of a size from a pea to a horse bean ; it is disposed to form a painful phagedenic sore, with very nau- seous smell; numerous small tubercles form over the trunk, or other parts, these are hard and painful. No remedy is known, and the disease proves fatal. SECTION SEVENTH. Another tumour, which for want of a better term is called cystic—the cystic sarcoma of Mr. Abernethy, affects the thyroid and other glands; but especially the male testicle and female ovarium. In the latter case it is very improperly denominated dropsy of the ovarium. The gland itself has its texture universally changed, becoming firmer, and in some places almost of a cartilaginous appearance. Very soon, throughout the whole texture, numerous cysts appear, which seem made up of a firm membraneous substance; their surface is secreting, and the fluid yielded is generally albumenous, sometimes of a yellow colour, sometimes pellucid. These cysts increase, but in a very unequal degree, one acquiring a much larger size than the rest. This is the case even in the testicle, but in the ovarium it is still more remarkably so, one cyst acquiring a magnitude one hundred times greater than all the rest together. The consistence of the contents is