149 effect, which, it it do not render it positively injurious, will at least counterbalance any good it can otherwise do, when exhibited internally in the early stage of most inflammations, and particularly without previous depletion. This, however, is moie decidedly the case in some organs and habits than in ot leis. It is peculiarly noxious in cerebral and pulmonary animation. In inflammation of the joints, or cellular sub- tance in the extientities again, it may, after evacuation, pro- cure much relief, without any corresponding evil. In abdo- na , a_, veil as in external inflammation, and in all cases lere theie is considerable pain, it is almost essential, after uno 1 )e active state by bleeding, that we allay sensation y i opiate, foi the mere sensation keeps up inflammation; eie is a stage in which the two remedies may be advan- - oe°us y i ended, and perhaps one in which opium alone is the ost use ul. We must not compare or confound the effects p uni, pioduced on an inflamed part through the medium ©eneial system, with those resulting from its direct application to it. When the inflamed part is very thin, and ex ensue, t ic diiect application of opium, especially after evacuation is often attended with great benefit, although the internal exhibition might have been hurtful. This is not to be attributed to any astringency or simple stimulation, for tS OI r"^!e at ^11S earlf stage would not have had the same effect. This is illustrated by ophthalmia, when, after 6 acute staSe is over, or after evacuation, vinutn opii is of gieat use, and vinum digitalis seems equally beneficial. I was led to propose it from finding that it seemed on experi- mental trial to excite the venous circulation. ocal applications are to be employed with two views. ie ist is to diminish the inflammatory action directly, as we attempt by topical bleeding and cold; the second is, to "'eve the sensation mediately or immediately, as we thereby “T eaSt a ProP and excitement to the continuance of I™'0'611 With ,hiS SUbjeCt of the -fl-ce very acute"’-1 ^ ^ mentloned’ that where the sensation is the exdtin„ C°nSeq“enCe P*1'"? °f the PowerfuI action of exciting cause) and partly of the natural function of the