4<79 have, however, only known of one instance of a cure, and that was of popliteal aneurism. The gentleman afterwards died of aneurism of the aorta. Various bandages and machines have been contrived for pressing on the artery above the sac, none of which are admissible, excepting those which do not act on the collateral branches. But even in the best manner of applying pressure, it is evident that the accompanying vein and nerve must be acted on, and, therefore, in so far as any other consideration, besides the pain of exposing the artery, may be concerned, it is not in any respect superior to the operation, whilst, in other respects, it is attended with all its hazards, and some peculiar to itself. It has been followed by inflammation and gangrene, and when these events did not take place, it has failed, even in favourable cases, although tried for a month. It is also, if earned to an efficient degree, often attended with great pain. Vernet tried the third method in an aneurism at the upper part of the thigh : but the aneurism increased rapidly in size, and pulsated more strongly. He, therefore, abandoned the plan. No subsequent trial has tended to give more confidence; and of all the modes of using compression, this seems deservedly to be the least popular. Veins consist of two proper coats, with an external or cel- lular covering. The internal membrane, which is a con- tinuation of the lining of the right side of the heart, is supple, and does not break or give way under the action of a ligature, like the internal membrane of an artery. In its natural state, it is considered to be insensible; for neither mechanical nor chemical stimulants seem to give pain. It is also appaiently destitute of the power of absorption. This internal membrane forms, at various intervals, dupli- catuies known under the name of valves, which prevent the return of the blood towards the extremities. These valves, however, become less prominent in an enlarged or distended state of the vein, and consequently the reflux of the blood may, in that condition, be permitted to a greater degree than in a contracted state. But there are limits to this. Secondly, beyond this is the peculiar venous coat,