449 one spot, and the inner portion of the artery may thus be destroyed. To enumerate all the changes which may precede aneurism, is neither necessary nor possible, for the very pro- duction of the disease often puts it out of our power to ascer- tain the steps leading to it. The alterations I have noticed, particularly the depositions, cannot be considered as imme- diate causes of aneurism, for they are met with in many cases where the artery is entire. They can therefore only be viewed as states facilitating rupture. This rupture may arise from any cause tending to distend the vessel, and, therefore, what- ever propels the blood in greater quantity, or with more force, can produce it; and if the coats be very brittle, they must at last give way under the ordinary effort for the circulation. Were all the coats, or the whole thickness alike diseased, and equally fragile, the rupture must be productive of haemor- rhage or diffusion of blood, like an wound or puncture. But the outer cellular coat and sheath seldom participate in the same disease. They indeed are often thickened, but they are not brittle nor fragile, and, therefore, when the internal and middle coats give way, the blood is still confined, and can hardly be said to escape from the tube, which is only opened or torn through half its thickness. But under these circum- stances, the outer coat yields or distends a little, more or less, according to the size of the internal laceration, and conse- quent impetus of the blood upon it. It is probable that the rent is generally at first very small, and the quantity of blood emitted by it comparatively trifling; and afterwards, as the outer coats are attempted to be farther dilated by the blood, they thicken, so that the tumour is formed, not by distention merely, but also by growth. The force exerted on the outer coat by the blood, at the moment of escape, is not great, and indeed, the ordinary impetus against the coat has been greatly overrated by some. If the blood acted with great force, it should be driven between the artery and the sheath, and form a coagulum, which would almost obliterate the arterial canal. If we inject a limb when the arteries are in this state, and the coats at one point give way, a large extravasation of wax takes place within the sheath, and the tube is so compressed, 2