192 use of infusion of bark or quinine, or some light tonic, con- joined with a mild aperient. The use of opium and cordials will come to be considered under the inflammatio debilis, to which I must refer this disease when it tends towards gangrene. When there is metastasis to the membranes of the brain, purgatives, and detraction of blood from a vein, or from the head itself, by cupping or leeching in the vicinity, will be proper. When the stomach becomes tender, leeches should be applied to the epigastrium, and the part afterwards fomented for a length of time. With respect to local applications, there has been much diversity of opinion. So long ago as the time ol Hippocrates, it was remarked that a repulsion of the erysipelas, or a metastasis to an internal part, especially the brain, was a dangerous or fatal event. Yet Celsus had no hesitation after bleeding to apply reprimentia and refrigerantia, cerussa mixed with juice of solanum, over which was laid the leaf of beet, and above all a cloth wet with cold water. Many who nominally rejected astringents practically used them, employing applications to mitigate inflammation, which, if they acted at all, must have done so as repellents. Such was the epithema of equal parts of lime water and camphorated spirit of wine, with the addition of Castile soap. The most popular remedy in this country is o-enerally applied cold, namely, flour, which is grateful only when first sprinkled, and is used from a belief that moisture is improper. Dr. Cullen thought it might absorb acrimonious m Unctuous applications have been equally condemned, and yet many employed olive oil. Modern practitioners seldom apply either salves or emollients, but seem more disposed to use lime water, preparations of opium, vegetable astringents, akIn ^e^pelas unaccompanied with much debility, there are two p ans of local treatment, both of which are often useful Tthoilrthey are opposite. The first is, keeping the par cool, not cold, by bathing it frequently with cool water, anc