10.5 sensation is seldom of a sickening or depressing kind, and the pulse is sharp and bounding. Inflammation of the spinal cord is attended with a very rapid pulse at first, but it is small or contracted in proportion to its rapidity. Inflamma- tion of the brain also produces frequent pulse, and generally it is full. Any judgment attempted to be formed by the state of the pulse, should always be corrected by attention to the temperature, the local symptoms, the period of the disease, and the effect of evacuation. Much also depends on the peculiar constitution of the patient, and the train of sympa- thies which exist. In some cases,- the effect on the system produced by an inflamed part, merits rather the name of irritation than of inflammatory fever. This consists in a general and disagree- able excitement of the system ; a kind of fretting, if that term, more applicable to the mind, may be employed with regard to the body, with a restlessness and indescribable uncomfort- able feeling. This is also accompanied with an increased susceptibility of the sentient, and irritability of the muscular system. The heart is also excited to more frequent action, and the pulse is sharp and frequent, unless such sympathies exist as cause slowness of pulse. Very often some of the chylopoietic viscera, particularly the stomach and liver, are affected. It is the effect of local pain or uneasiness, and its degree is regulated by the kind of sensation, and the ten- derness of the organ affected, and the sympathy it possesses. A slight irritation of the eye produces considerable systematic affection. Toothache, though much more painful, is less apt to do so, and more likely to produce the fever of excitement. Inflammation may produce in the system irritation, as well as inflammatory fever, or the two may be combined. Enteritis sometimes causes both. Burns may do the same, under cer- tain -circumstances; for whilst severe and acute pain exhausts, more moderate, but gnawing or fretting, pain irritates. If severe pain do not soon exhaust, it increases the irritability of the system. This state of irritation may, or may not assume the form of a febrile paroxysm, according to circum- stances. It may supervene in the more distinct inflammatory