49 a solution of salt into the thorax of a clog, we find the pleura pulmonalis much redder, and more inflamed than the pleura costalis, which is sometimes scarcely red. The inflammation is also much more apt to extend to the organ, than to the parietes. The lungs are always more or less affected, whilst the intercostal muscles remain sound, and this fact ought to be remembered in considering thoracic disease. The testicle also swells greatly if we inject a hydrocele, whilst the tunica vaginalis suffers somewhat less, and the scrotum often is not very red. There may, however, be extension of the inflam- mation outward, and suppuration may form in the cellular substance, but this is rare, unless some of the injection have infiltrated into it. Iiigh degrees of inflammation of serous membranes may end in suppuration, still higher in gangrene. The peritonaeum is a highly important serous membrane, which is very liable to inflammation, particularly that por- tion which covers the abdominal contents, for the linincr of the parietes is not so often inflamed. It is not usual to find the peritonaeum covering the parenchymatous viscera inflamed primarily. It is either affected in consequence of inflamma- tion of the substance of the viscera, or by propagation from the peritonaeum covering other viscus, especially the intestines. Inflammation is marked by very fine arborescent redness, more or less intense, proceeding always from the capillaries being injected with red blood. The small trunks, particularly the veins, are also enlarged, and often the colour is increased at the very first by effusion of blood under the membrane either in the form of streaks, or broader patches or points. The redness may be in different cases and at different periods more distinctly arborescent, or form streaks or points; but in all great degrees of inflammation, it is, from these various modifi- cations, universal, and is farther increased by effusion of bloody serum into the cellular coat under the peritonaeum, which can be more easily detached than formerly. The cellular coat is the chief seat of redness, for the membrane itself is long of becoming vascular. But the principal effusion is from the exhalents into the cavity of the belly, and some — E