172 a broken habit, as it is called, can only be viewed as giving a predisposition. It has been supposed that this inflammation, whether called erysipelatous or erythematic, was a peculiar inflammation, and sui generis. The ancient writers could not do otherwise than suppose so, as phlegmonous inflammation was imagined to proceed from the blood, whilst erysipelas arose from the bile. The doctrine of essential difference is still maintained, from opinions perhaps not much more correct. First, from the preconceived notion that inflammation is a salutary pro- cess, an action of the vis medieatrix, and finding that no good ever resulted, or could even be imagined from this inflamma- tion, it became necessary either to abandon the previous posi- tion, or to maintain that this is not a proper inflammation. The latter alternative was adopted, and this was called a diseased action, a bastard of the vis medieatrix, entitled to no participa- tion in the privileges and honours of its legitimate childien. Second, from not attending to the fact, that inflammation is more apt to spread along the texture in which it has begun, than to dive or sink down to the parts below. When inflam- mation begins on the surface, either of the body or of a viscus, it is more disposed to extend along that surface, than to go deeper. The tendency to spread then, is not peculiar to erysipelas, nor greater in it than in any other inflammation, if we take predisposition and other circumstances into account. We hear of erysipelatous inflammation of the peritonaeum, and other serous membranes, but is not this a gratuitous ' appellation. What is the distinction between erysipelas of the peritonaeum, and simple peritonitis? Is it the operation of a contagion ? Be it so, this is a difference in the exciting- cause, not in the essential quality of the action, in so far as inflammation is concerned. There may be a contagious erysi- pelas, as well as a contagious phlegmon, but does this prove that phlegmonous and erysipelatous inflammation differ in any one respect from each other, except in the texture affected. . , Inflammation of the skin may be produced, as in othei