38G may stand long enough thus, without ever being seated in the saddle. Neither the effusion of blood, nor even of lymph, nor of any unorganized substance, constitutes adhesion, although the last may be considered as a preliminary step. The process is one of organization, but the vessels being cut, that process must be preceded, first, by bleeding, and next, by a secretion of fluid from the vessels, as a matter of course, resulting from the injury. Then the process begins, and is not confined to mere elongation, or inosculation of vessels, but embraces every point of reunion. Mr. Hunter thought that vessels penetrated into blood, or into coagulable lymph, which became thus the living intermedium of union, and the soil necessary for the growth of vessels. As a necessary part of this doctrine, he was bound to maintain that clots could be injected; more lately, Sir Everard Home has supposed that the extrication of gas, forcing a passage through the coagulum, formed a tract for new vessels. By placing blood covered by coloured size, under the receiver of an air-pump, and then exhausting the air completely, the gas contained in the coagulated blood, forms tracts, into which the thin size is forced, on the re-admission of the air. I presume, how- ever, that the learned Vice-President might, in the same way, inject a spoonful of blancmange. It no more follows that vessels shoot into blood or lymph, because these are necessary as a nidus, or that the effusion of these fluids is the cause of the elongation of vessels, or the reunion of the part, than that the propulsion of a ball depends on the report which accompanies it. The explosion of gun- powder is the cause of these concomitant effects; and in the same way the effusion of an intermedium, of a nature varying according to the stage of the process, and the prolongation of vessels and nerves, through that, are conjoint consequences of the action or process ol adhesion. When we look into the older writers, we find very little on the subject of adhesion. I do not recollect a single writer who introduces the term into his index, far less who gives it a distinct chapter. We must not hence, however, suppose that it was altogether passed over; for they all, with more or less