429 This is formed into pieces of various size, which are beat so as to render them softer. This substance is pliable, of a fungous nature, and yields under the finger, somewhat like chamois leather. Portions are laid, in at least two successive layers, over the artery, and bound firmly down with bandages. It was considered to act principally by favouring coagulation; but it now seems to be almost superseded by the sponge. IThis may act in two ways. First, by serving as a medium, identifying the coagulum with itself, into whicl^it enters, and in which it forms, and also with the part to which it adheres. It retains the coagulum, and renders it efficient. Another way in which, in certain cases, it may operate, is by pressure, especially when thrust into a cavity, and firmly bound by a roller. It may also, in the first instance, assist by capillary attraction. For a fluid rises in a sponge, which touches only its surface. And blood will flow faster into a sponge, or moi-e rapidly at first from a vessel of secondary size, than if no sponge had been applied. This produces more rapid con- traction of the extremity of the vessel. For an artery dimi- nishes as the distention is taken off, and the blood in the sponge in the mean time coagulating, the effect is assisted. If we can prevent, by pressure, or other means, the flow through the sponge externally, or into the neighbouring parts, the same consequences may result as from the complete coagu- lation of blood in an aneurism. The sponge is, therefore, under some circumstances, and with regard to a certain order of arteries, more effectual than cauteries. But it is equally fatal to adhesion, often more so, in consequence of the disten- tion of the part, and therefore never ought to be employed where the ligature can be applied, especially in such cases, as otherwise would admit of adhesion. As for the application of a sponge between the wound and the bandage, after laying down the skin on the wound, it has no advantage over any other compress, except in distending, and thereby increasing the pressure, if haemorrhage should take place. When sponge is used, it should be removed in proper time, and before the surface begin to granulate. For the granulations pass into : : - -• ,