235 must prevent the patient, if possible, from sinking under the debility produced, and therefore, in extreme cases, we must have recourse to the use of stimulants, such as hot water, with the addition of wine or brandy, and the application of heat gene- rally to the surface. But this practice, absolutely necessary in such cases, is not without its hazard, as the state of excitement, inevitably produced, is apt to cause inflammation. Wher- ever, therefore, the patient is not sinking farther, but rather rallying, we trust to the efforts of nature, merely taking care that he be not further exhausted by any unnecessary exertion, and that the heat he himself is able to generate be retained by the application of flannel. A very irritable state of the sto- mach also may call for the exhibition of a grain of solid opium. Concussion of the brain does not come to be considered here ; but it may be well to remark, that when there seems to be any shock of the sensorium, the head should be immediately shaved, and a blister applied to the back of it. If inflammation should come on before the general effects of the shock have been recovered from, it is clear that it must attack parts in a state of debility, and where a small decree of excitement, must be productive of a great effect. The means of cure must therefore be employed promptly, but not pushed to a debilitating degree. But we are not to suppose that the shock shall be general and severe, whilst the local injury is circumscribed. The ankle or the leg may be crushed or shattered, and the whole frame debilitated, but this is only one view of the case ; for the injury is not marked by a line of demarkation precise and well defined, but it affects in a vary- ing, possibly in a decreasing ratio, the superior part of the extremity, which therefore, altogether independent of the o-ene- ral state of the system, is in a state peculiarly predisposed to and favourable for inflammation. In such a state as this, we must be peculiarly careful in preventing the operation of stimuli on parts not yet actually diseased. We must therefore not only carefully avoid the direct application of heat to, or the e ects of motion on the parts immediately above the iniured portion of the member, and the operation of all internal sti antS’ but must also> with equal ™.e, guard against the'