4.01 it may prove a salutary stimulus. We must take great care that no air be injected with the blood. The treatment of the primary effects of haemorrhage is sim- ple, although not always successful; but that of the secondary is more complicated. We have evidently a condition of great debility with one of general, often complicated with local, excitement, and the effect on an wound must be most import- ant. The general excitation, not always correctly called irri- tation, can only be removed by time ; but it may be mitigated, and its removal hastened, by avoiding every thing which can exasperate, or increase the excitement: a state of rest, there- fore, for some time, in a recumbent posture, is useful, and then we are gradually to accustom the patient first to sit erect, and next to stand and move a little, but not so as to keep up palpitation. The bowels are to be brought into a regular state, and kept in that, which has a great effect not only on the system at large, but particularly in lessening the uneasy throbbing and pain in the head. Next, we are to use means for cautiously renewing the quantity of blood and restoring the vigour of the system, by the use of mild nourishment, given as often as the stomach can bear without exacerbation of fever or increase of unpleasant feelings, and as can be digested. There can be no objection to the exhibition of certain medicines called tonics, if these agree, such as quinine, bitters, mineral acids, &c. but these are of subordinate utility, and diet, with good air, and gradual efforts to exercise the strength, are principally to be relied on. Hence, if no untoward chcumstance inter- vene, the patient not very incorrectly connects his restoration with time and care, rather than with physic. But farther, as there is early a state of excitement marked by the febrile symptoms I have noticed, and by frequency of pulse, which is only a secondary effect, and dependant on the state induced in the cardiac nerves by the condition of the vessels, it may be necessary to sooth the system and allay sensibility by opiates, unless these disagree with the patient. Lastly, the sympathetic or remote effects must be attended to and coun- teracted. If there be symptoms of local inflammation, it may be necessary to detract blood by leeches, or cupping; nay, it 2 n , _ . 1