,521 effects of the condition of the nervous system, as direct causes. But they may react, and prove contributive to the continu- ance and increase of tetanus. In some dissections, marks of inflammation have been observed in the stomach and bowels; in others, the heart, arteries, and veins, have exhibited marks ol inflammation. But as these appearances are not invariably met with, and have, in innumerable instances, existed without tetanus, we must consider them rather as effects than causes. In several instances, where the spine has been examined, the sheath of the medulla has been found inflamed, with effusion, either of blood or of serum; Dr. Reid says, of the former in acute, and the latter in more chronic cases. But we have not yet a sufficient number of accurate dissections to establish this point. There can, however, be little doubt, that the state of the medulla spinalis is intimately connected with the produc- tion of tetanus. The most ancient practitioners, from the rigidity of the neck, directed their attention to the state of the spine. Celsus, for example, directs friction to be kept up night and day, with some intermission, however, on the spine. If there were much pain, he advised blood to be abstracted from the neck by cupping; or sinapisms or the cautery were to be applied. Hildanus, in noticing a case of convulsions from injury of the temporal muscle, says, they took place “ propter materiam ad spinam delapsam.” We know well, also, that tetanic convulsions are produceable by irritating the medulla spinalis of animals. This view of the disease however, has not yet led to any efficient mode of treatment. For neither the cupping recommended by Celsus, nor vene- section, nor blisters applied to the spine, can be in any degree relied on. Four different plans of treatment require consideration. First, to divide, the nerves supposed to be injured, or, where an extremity has been wounded, to perform amputation. Second, to destroy the injured extremities of the nerves by the application of the cautery. Third, to change the action of the surface, and excite a free discharge by means of irritating substances. Fourth, to use general remedies. First, It was long supposed, and indeed countenanced by