1G8 been employed for the express purpose of checking that. These have been exhibited either internally, or applied locally. In the former way, various resinous and irritating substances have been given, such as turpentine, copaiba, cubebs, &c. In the latter way, stimulating or astringent injections have been employed in the urethra, vagina, or eye; and vapourshave been sent into the trachea. It is clear that all of these, and even those which approach us under the disguise of sedatives, must be injurious in the first stage, unless we can show that they are able to cure inflammation. Our primary object must be to remove that, and it is only in so far as these applications can do so, that they in general are useful. In purulent ophthal- mia, for instance, we first must have recourse to depletion, and counter irritation, and then, as in other species, topical appli cations may do good. It does not follow that they act by checking directly the discharge, or shutting up the secreting vessels. They are useful just in the same way as collyria are in common ophthalmia, excepting in so far as they wash out the matter. In the urethra, also, we do no good, unless we lessen inflammation ; and as these often have a contrary effect, they, on the whole, do as much harm as good. It is not philosophical, however, to reason against the use of a remedy from its abuse. Irritating applications, especially in the first starre, must tend to increase inflammation, and aggravate the disease ; but it does not thence follow, that at a future period, mild stimulants are not of advantage. The indiscriminate use of injections in gonorrhoea, has been attended with mischief but many carry their prejudices against them too far and forbid them in every case. The same man who prohibits injections in this disease, will not scruple to employ them in purulent ophthalmia. Can he give a good reason for this discrepancy in his practice? Establishing artificially the purulent action just so remote from the part as not to excite it by the irritation of the means employed, is found to be of more service, perhaps, than any other remedy. Thus, m purulent ophthalmia, great benefit is derived from an issue on die back part of the head. The same would hold true in respect of inflammation of the urethra, could we find a convenient place