193 then covering the part with a damp cloth, or merely exposing it to the air. The second is accumulating the heat by wrapping the part in cotton. 1 he application of cold to such a degree as to produce the sensation of cold, and more especially a strong sensation, and kept up for a time, is doubly dangerous. It is apt to pioduce a metastasis to an internal part, most frequently the biain, and the patient dies comatose. There is nothing more mysterious in this metastasis of disease, than in the doctrine of sympathy ot equilibiium, which rests on too strong ground, to be disputed, and on which it depends. The sudden removal of any local action, by means acting merely locally, is some- times speedily followed by similar action in a sympathising part. This seldom happens when the disease is removed by means operating through the constitution, or at least by the co-operation of these. In the case in question, there is a double chance of mischief from sudden repulsion; for, in addition to the one just noticed, it is evident, that if the exan- thema have arisen from, or been connected with a disorder of the chylopoietic viscera not yet removed, there must still be a disposition to repeat the mischief. A second way in which this piactice is dangerous, is, by sinking the power of the part itself, if !t do not remove the inflammation. It converts it into inflam- matio debilis, and causes hazard of mortification. It appears then, that there will be very great difference in the effect of applications only slightly cool, and those decidedly cold Bathing with cool water at short intervals, or moistening the sui ace occasionally, and allaying thereby heat and smarting may do good, whilst greater cold would do harm. This prac- tice is most proper and safest in erysipelas of the extremities, for on the head there is greater risk of repulsion. Medicated Icons have also been employed either cold or tepid, such as ° U.10n °/ aCetate of lead’ or lime water, with so small a pro- portion of camphorated spirit of wine as not to smart, or a dram of subcarbonate of ammonia and superacetate of lead dissolved in a pound of rose water, &c. But it is to be doubted iese in general be better than plain water. as t"“‘hel' 7^ ,°f 'reatment is’ ^ “PPiyfcg wool, so • vcuniu ate heat, and give a gentle stimulus to tile part. o