325 fungating structure, but a mere morbid growth, a tumour without skin, and with a very thin cuticle, through which, when it exists, there transpires serous fluid. Around it, is an indurated margin. There is stinging pain, but it is long, if ever, before the glands be affected by the disease. When it is examined we find it to be of the firm granulated texture, but wanting the septa of cancer. It is circumscribed, and the morbid texture ends abruptly, so that we may, if it do not encroach too much on the canal of the urethra, dissect it olf, if we think that plan is to be better than an amputation. A vaiiety of this kind of tumour often is met with in the cancelli, 01 between the layers of bones. It begins with an ash-coloured deposition, somewhat like coagulated albumen; then it becomes gray, and the section is rough, the bone enlaiges, and perhaps is absorbed, and a tumour appears exactly as in a soft part. This is often met with in the lower jaw, as well as in the antrum. The plates of the bone are greatly separated or destroyed, the gum is morbid, and a laige mass is produced, with a suppurating, not a granu- lating surface. When such a tumour forms in the cancelli of a bone covered with skin, &c. as, for instance, the humerus, it acquires a large size without suppurating, and undergoes but little change except in augmentation, till the skin over it inflame and suppurate, or slough and cause its exposure. This kind of tumour is generally called osteosarcoma, but is doubtless susceptible of many modifications. It is often con- nected with a scrofulous diathesis, but is not very apt to affect the neighbouring glands. Tumours of this kind affect- mg the jaw, for instance, must not be confounded in an advanced stage with those which originated in the gum, and which, contrary to these tumours, fungate and contaminate e g ands. 1 hey begin with a ragged appearance of the margin of the gum; the jagged points are swollen, and seem to be more gelatinous and albumenous. The surface becomes irregular like shagreen, and small tumours form, having an «s«Slt:rrtly to little cysts of bi°°^ ^ sends r ' rllls ProJectIon> or tumour, bursts and ■ a soft fungus, and bloody fetid serous fluid or dis-