293 must avoid every thing which can keep up the excitement, and do (however little it may be) all we can to lessen the irritation. A state of absolute rest is indispensable, and in general the best application wre can make, is a bread and milk poultice. It the excitement have been merely local, this simple plan will be quite sufficient; but if it have been con- nected with, or dependant on, a more general cause, operat- ing through the constitution, it will be necessary to attend to that. Fermented liquors must be abstained from. The diet should be light: the bowels freely opened, and if the tongue be funed, a mercurial pill may for one or two nights be added to the laxative : if the skin be hot and dry,°the saline julap. If the ulcer be painful, notwithstanding the use of these means, we may then prescribe an anodyne at night. Having brought the ulcer into a more natural state, and got rid of the excitement, we may dress it with dry lint, and use moderate pressure; treating it ultimately as we would do a healthy ulcer. But we have seen that this unhealthy state may go farther, and may be productive of that total change of action, which has been improperly described under the appellation of indo- lent ulcer, and in which the sore does not granulate, but only suppurates, and sometimes is partially inflamed. This may present itself in two different conditions; that chronic or established state of suppuration that has been above described or, a person having this kind of sore, may, by fatigue or intem- perance, have it excited, so as to alter its character. The edges and surrounding skin to a considerable distance become red, the surface assumes a fiery appearance; in some spots there ma\, in extieme cases, be even an appearance of sloughino-. the pain is considerable, and extends up the limb; the dFs- ciaige is much increased, but always serous. This is the usual appearance of such a sore, when the patient has been exposed to fatigue, or laboured at his employment till the veiy ast, when he comes to apply for advice. Almost every is°on ' Tf°re’ °" ‘he admission of a into an hospital been , ,TT“,‘ 'Vha‘eVer itS “g1”1 <=h^«er may have been, and borders more or less on inflammation. The prac I