29 vessels is formed. In some tumours of a white colour, we may have only one or two branches apparently carrying red blood, whilst to the naked eye, the rest of the texture is not red. There is however a change in the nature of the fluid, and in the capacity of the vessels, for transparency is always diminished. Redness, however, is almost invariable, and may be detected by careful observation, when at first sight it is not very distinct. It differs in its intensity according to the nature of the part, and the degree of the inflammation, and is also influenced by the character of the disease. No new vessels are formed, but the existing ones become greatly enlarged, and those containing formerly only colour- less fluid, now receive red blood, which leads to the appear- ance as if new vessels had been produced; but we find when the texture of the part considerably increases, the vessels also elongate, so that in this view we may say, that there is a new formation of vascular canal, the former shooting or becoming larger. But when there is no great tumefaction and enlarge- ment of the organ, or inflamed part, there may be intense led ness, without the formation of one new circle to a single vessel. Apply hot w'ater to the skin, or irritate the eye, and in less than a minute the vessels enlarge, so as to make multi- tudes visible whei’e none were seen before. If strong solution of salt be applied to the foot of a frog, the capillary vessels are observed by the microscope to become rapidly larger and filled with red blood. The wreb is speedily converted into a network of red vessels, not one of which is new. If this inflammation be curable, we find that by covering for a short time the foot with bits of ice, the redness goes off, and the vessels become again.pellucid, transmitting only brilliant globules swimming in a nearly colourless fluid. In no one case is a single new vessel formed by the simple act of inflam- mation. Injecting a little solution of salt under the skin of a frog’s leg, also produces instantly an arborescence of red ves- sels, although none were visible before, even with a good glass. In many cases, the redness depends on the minute injection of the vessels with red blood, as for instance, in the com- mencement of conjunctive; but in almost every instance of