318 become inconvenient; from the chance of troublesome adhesion forming to important parts; and, above all, the possibility of a change taking place in the structure, such tumours ought to be early removed, for no medicine or topical application has any effect. SECTION THIRD. The next is the firm cellular tumour, of a gray colour when cut into. It evidently exhibits cells, formed as in the subcu- taneous texture by lamina of cellular substance, but these ol'ten become in time indistinct, perhaps obliterated. The contents of the cells vary in different cases, and sometimes in different stages. There is always more or less albumen, and often the deposite is mixed with fibrin, but generally it is more sebaceous, or even oily. It may appear improper to class such opposite tumours together, but whilst there are two extremes, one tumour containing little else than fibrin, and another adipose substance, there is between these two such a variety in the proportions of these as to defeat all arrangement, and the same remark applies to the variable quantity of cellular matter. Such tumours have been called adipose, or vascular sarcoma, &c., according to the aspect; but in many cases, what appears to be fatty matter, is quite dif- ferent from adipose substance. There is no tumour, properly so called, made up entirely of fatty deposition. That there are enlargements in particular parts of the cellular and sebace- ous substance, or that one cell increases, and contains much more fat than usual, is not to be disputed, but these enlarge- ments are never called adipose tumours. The adipose&or steatomatous tumour often is attached by a pedicle, or forms a kind of wen; when cut, it has a fatty cellular appearance, and fat runs out from it when heated. If boiled in water it becomes harder and denser, and whiter from the coagulation of albumenous fluid in the cells. If we boil sound cellular substance, we find that it contracts, but it remains compara tjvely soft, and composed of cells filled with fat. There is t leieloie, m this tumour, much albumen in addition to soba* ceous substance. The composition may aiso vary Z^Z