209 cicatrix when it forms, is elevated. But the question now is, not how we are to treat a burn or scald, but how we are to heal an ulcer, and the treatment of this ulcer will throw but little light on that most proper for the original accident. The best dressing is one gently stimulant, such as ung. lesin. : sometimes with the addition of a small proportion of tuipentine; or alum curd beat up with an equal quantity of laid ; or we may use a solution of chloride of lime, stronger than in the former cases, which, like some other stimulants, may diminish the discharge, but is especially useful in destroy- ing the smell. It also seems to promote the formation of an inorganic layer over the surface, which is useful; and, there- fore, even when not used constantly, it forms a good lotion at the time of dressing. Then, those parts which seem dis- posed to heal kindly, may be dressed with cerussa ointment; those which are healing, but prone to fungus, with stimulating dressings, and they should be bathed with weak solution of nitrate of silver, or solution of sulphate of zinc. Those which at e foul and sloughy should have a poultice bf boiled carrots, mixed with powdered charcoal applied, or be repeatedly washed with solution of chloride of lime; and those which are superficial and stationary, should be washed with a stimulating lotion, and then crusted with chalk; or it sometimes succeeds very well to cover the part constantly with dry cotton, only removing daily those portions which are moistened and detached by matter. In all cases, care must be taken to pre- vent contraction, and the formation of improper adhesions. Fourthly. When the fire has been so powerful as to destroy directly the part, and produce immediate death of the cutis, perhaps in some places absolute incineration, no dressing can act on the subjacent, but only on the surrounding parts. This state in one respect, therefore, is similar to a scald still covered with a blister. rIhe best application in such a case is, either a thick cloth wet with the old liniment of lime-water and linseed oil, or a tepid bread and milk poultice, which, after the slough has separated, is to be exchanged for a gently stimulating salve, or some of the applications just noticed. Fifthly. I he high inflammation and irritation may kill the