skin in erysipelas are by pressure, the blood flows quickly again into them when the finger is removed. It appears, from the observation of others, that while the globules are surrounded with their colouring matter, they do not coalesce; and if exposed on a glass so thinly as to dry instantaneously, they necessarily remain entire, but if thicker, so as to retain moisture for half a minute, they separate into their two parts. Whether any separation of the colouring and clear part of the globules take place in the capillary vessels in inflammation, is a point I have not been able to determine. SECTION SEVENTH. We are next to attend to the effect on the system at large, which varies according to the functions and nature of the organ affected, and the sympathies which exist or are called forth. The previous state of the constitution has also no small influence. A general effect is known under the name of fever, which may be illustrated by the history and progress of simple synocha. This begins with sense of coldness, particularly about the back, and very often the extremities, and some- times the whole surface feels cold to the hand of another per- son. But presently, the temperature increases beyond the ordinary degree, though for some time the sensation of cold be perceived by the patient. Then he has the feeling of cold alternated with that of heat, and presently that of heat becomes permanent, and the skin is dry and hot. The cold stage, which is not always very long nor highly marked, is attended, or even preceded by, languor, anorexia, and some- times nausea; and very soon a sense of soreness or aching in the limbs and loins, or over the body, is perceived, and the patient becomes restless. Headach is also an attendant on the early stage, particularly if the stomach be much affected; and when the fever is fully established, there is considerable throb- bing in the head, and sometimes delirium, or there may be a drowsy slumbering state, which brings no refreshment. In the cold stage, the face is pale, and the eye less biilliant, but in the hot, the face is often flushed, and the eye perhaps suf-