405 and a patient often complains much when an artery is tied ; yet Bichat affirms, that in no instance does irritation oi any kind, applied to the surface of an artery, give pain, but if irritating fluids be applied to the internal membrane, pain is produced ; indeed, he carries his assertion so far as to main- tain, that arteries have very little sympathy with other parts, and are rarely the seat of acute or chronic affections; and yet we know that very extensive inflammation may take place in that system. • That they are destitute of irritability, 01 sensible contractility, must follow from his belief that they are not muscular. Home also endeavours to establish that an artery acts not by irritability, but by the influence of the nerves. The cellular coat is less easily torn than those below, but it cannot resist the force of the blood, and therefore yields and dilates when these give way. The internal coat is very easily cut by a force which does not injure the rest; it is also liable to inflammation. The arterial tissue is also liable to ossification, and subject to inflammation, but not so readily as the internal membrane, nor does it spread so quickly, or so easily along it. It may suppurate, but granulates with difficulty, if at all. Bichat says arteries inflame with diffi- culty, even when in an inflamed texture, else where would be the security for the continuance of circulation ? This is quite a fallacy, or at best proves no more than that inflammation does not readily spread from an inflamed organ along the arteries; but neither does it along the nerves or other tex- tures. The arteries, in the inflamed texture, are agents in the action, not the subjects of it, they, therefore, although disordered, and constituting an integral part of the inflamed texture, are not to be expected surely to be themselves inflamed; as well might we expect the vasa vasorum of the renal artery to fill that with urine. An Avounded artery so rarely heals otherwise than by the total obliteration of the canal or tube, that it may, notwithstanding a few exceptions, be set down as an axiom, that no artery when opened does ever cease to pour out blood, so long as it remains a tube. The very means necessary for stanching the blood, the pres-