378 lions it may have undergone. There are other tumours, however, of very frequent occurrence, not comprised in this division : many cysts, for instance, contain a pellucid sub- stance, exactly resembling the vitreous humour of the eye, or the white of an egg; others contain a fluid much resem- bling oil, but which is merely coloured albumen; others con- 0 7 * 9 tain, floating in a fluid, hard substances resembling grains of rice, or bits of cartilage. Encysted tumours have been supposed to owe their origin to the closing or insulation of an individual cell, the surface of which next changed its action, and secreted a new fluid. We know nothing at pre- sent of the matter. These tumours form in almost every part of the body. They are frequent in the eyelids, in the lips, on the scalp, about the throat or neck, lhey are not uncommon on the shoulders or extremities. T-hey aie even met with in the brain, or between it and the dura matei. Very frequently they form over tendons, and then receive the name of ganglia. They may also form in the female breast, and then give rise to much anxiety, as well as actual danger. Encysted tumours are generally equal in their sur- face. They are moveable, more or less, as they are discon- nected with fascia, or other firm and fixed parts. They con- vey to the finger the impression of a fluid within. Sometimes the impression is that of fluctuation, more frequently of elasticity. We cannot always, however, from the feeling, decide that a tumour is encysted, and contains a fluid, for some enlargements which are of a cellular nature, particularly when bound down by a fascia, give very much the same feeling. This is particularly the case with the cellular variety of the vascular tumour already noticed. 1 do not at present notice those fluctuating tumours more or less extensive, containing albumenous pus, and known un- der the name of chronic abscesses. These I have already alluded to, and although not always perhaps correct, it would not be often wrong to say, that they were merely the result of scrofulous tumours enlarging after the secretory stage had been established to a greater or less degree. Encysted tumours may remain long stationary, but they an. \en nm y