215 instance, I have seen goes off at length. It is to be removed by tepid bathing, gentle friction, and cautious perseverance in efforts to use the limb. Elevated cicatrices, when to such an extent as to cause deformity, may be cut out like other tumours, and the skin brought together, or if this cannot be done, we shall at least be able to heal the part with a flat scar. Contraction of joints is more easily prevented than cured, and therefore we ought, in extensive burns, to attend much to position during the cure. If possible we should, by splints and bandages, resist the tendency to contract, and be careful to prevent adhesion forming improperly, by suitable dressing. It is fortunate that this plan often is successful; at the same time, it must be admitted, that in extensive burns about the face, there may inevitably be deformity from drawing and puckering of the mouth, or contraction of the eyelid, which adheres to the cheek. This is a frequent case in burns arising fiom explosion. Attention must be early and constantly paid to prevent this contraction; and when we fail, the skin must, when healed, be divided, and the eyelid brought up in a, manner to be hereafter described. Contraction of the joints and neck depends usually on the cicatrix, which has not been prevented from forming in a bent state of the member. Much may often be done by friction, and continued efforts to elon- gate by means of a splint. When this fails, the contracted skin must be cut out early, before the muscles have shrunk into a permanent state of shortening, and the cicatrix must then be prevented from forming in an unfavourable position. In some bad cases, where one muscle seems principally to lesist, that may be divided. But if an operation be not per- formed early, the chance of success is less, as the whole mus- cles may change their relative size, and the bones themselves become altered in some cases, or in others the ligaments of the articulations. When the fingers are contracted, and there is a thick cicatrix like a tumour over the flexor tendons, this may be cut with advantage, if continued attempts at elon<m tion do not succeed. But these I would, from experience' ad\ise not to be hastily abandoned.