33 disease along their trunks. If the veins of the arm or the absorbents be inflamed, the disease spreads faster and farther along them, than in the other textures, but is not confined to them; on the contrary, the cellular texture participates. II the fascia ol the limb be inflamed, the skin often partici- pates, though not to the same degree, and a kind of cedematous erysipelas is produced. The bone may be inflamed, and the disease for a length of time confined to it and the periosteum. All these facts show, that inflammation beginning in one tex- ture, may be confined for a time principally to that, and may spread along it, but that ultimately other parts and composi- tions participate. In the bowels, we may have the peritoneal 01 mucous coats principally affected, but both do in general ultimately participate, though not to the same extent and degree, both being generally greatest in the coat where the disease began. O But although one texture in a limb, or organ, may be the piincipal seat of inflammation, as for instance a vein, it is to be remembered that the whole composition of that vein, its vessels, nerves, and coats, are inflamed. If we, on the other hand, select an organ in a state of inflammation, we have onb extend the action to a greater number of parts, and have an inflammation of vessels, nerves, muscles, skin, &c. but not always in the same proportion, and hence, one source of modification of inflammation. But in all severe diseases, the whole is involved in the action, for the whole dies or mortifies. On the other hand, when only one tissue or subdivision is inflamed, as, for instance, the skin, that alone mortifies. It is also possible for some parts of the general composition to perish, although they be not brought into a state of actual inflammation. They sink or suffer by sym- pathy, and by having their functions injured. SECTION THIRD. \\ hilst the inflammatory action possesses certain essential characters, it nevertheless, in so far as some of its pheno- mena and consequences are concerned, is capable of modi- fication, according to circumstances, namely, First, The D