I 92 former settling into a crust more or less thick on the surface of the latter, or red globular part. This crust is known unc ei t le name of the bully coat, and in some inflammations it not only is thick, but is contracted and puckered, so as to be often more than a fifth less in diameter than the red por- tion. The maigins are also from the contraction turned up, and may be elevated nearly a quarter of an inch above the surface. Ihe upper surface is smooth, the under surface rough, and adheres firmly to the red clot, but sends no pro- longations into it. Various circumstances affect the formation of the coat. If the blood flow slowly, and in a small stream, it is so affected as to exhibit little or no buff1. It seems also that cold in a certain degree prevents its formation. The shape of the vessel, even when the blood flows freely, and from a large orifice, has an influence. It is thicker when the vessel is of small diameter than when it is broad; but in these cases it is difficult to say hether the same quantity of blood throws up different pro- poi tions of pure fibrin. In a broad vessel one part of the surface may have a thick coat of buff, and another none at all. It has been supposed that the slowness of coagulation was the cause of the appearance of the huffy coat, the red globules being heavier than the fibrin, and the fibrin than the serum. This is too mechanical an explanation, and not supported by fact; for, whilst inflammatory blood may coagulate slowly, it also may coagulate rapidly; and, in general, in less than the time allotted for the coagulation of healthy blood, the buff begins to appear. We must therefore refer it to some con- dition of the blood itself, leading to more rapid separation of its component parts. The state of the system determines this, for, in the same patient, blood may flow equally rapidly, and yet different cups may exhibit different degrees of buff, and it is not always the last which has the least. Syncope, or a state approaching to it, seems to diminish the tendency to buff, for the blo.od during or after this state is seldom buffy. A patient also may be bled in the early stage of inflamma- tion, and the blood exhibit little buff, but the next bleedino- may be very sizy. One cup also, under circumstances appa-