355 nestly would object to this scheme, which experience makes me consider as leading to dangerous consequences. The portion of the breast which is left can be of little use, for often the patients are beyond the age of suckling. The pain of removing the whole breast, is perhaps not more than removing a portion of it, whilst the greater number of arteries which we may have to tie, may render it even more; add to this, the constant apprehension in which the patient must live. If we resolve to extirpate the whole breast, which I certainly would advise, we must take care that even then we have got away the whole of the tumour; and ought, for that purpose, as soon as the principal vessels are secured, to ascertain the state of the neighbouring parts with the finger, and also have the removed breast examined, so as to see that every part of the cancerous tumour be involved in sound texture. If any one spot on the outline of the extirpated mass, have a suspicious appearance, as if a section had been made of a cancerous substance, we must re-examine that part of the wound which corresponds with the suspicious spot, and, if necessary, remove more substance. I do not mean, in this place, to be more minute regarding the perform- ance of the operation, leaving that, so far as it regards the breast, lip, testicle, &c. to another part of,the work. I shall only observe, that we ought to pay great attention to have the vessels properly secured, the skin accurately laid down, and its lips carefully brought together with adhesive plaster, so as to produce adhesion as speedily and extensively as possible; which, although far from being essential to the cure, does, ceteris paribus, lessen the hazard and accelerate the recovery. I need not say, that for this and more im- portant purposes, we should also be careful that no part of diseased or contaminated integument be left, nor even the smallest portion of the outer fascia; and it is no less neces- sary to attend to the covering of the pectoral muscle. It is always safest to have that muscle completely denuded, and a red bottom left to the wound. I do not mean, however, to say, that we should pick away every cellular portion, as if we were going to make an elegant demonstration of the fibres. But we