182 affected, it was thought necessary to make a few incisions through the occipito-frontalis-tendon and pericranium, or occasionally through the temporal muscles, to remove tension, and unbridle the parts, as it was called Efforts were also made to promote suppuration, which was esteemed as a gi eat secu rity against both the spreading ol the extei nal disease, and inflammation of the membranes of the brain. The late Mr. Pott, more disposed to practical than theoretical distinc- tion, admitted also two species of this affection of the head. One arising more immediately from irritation of the scalp; the colour was deep red, the headach acute, attended with much fever, and even delirium, and the feeling of tension was considerable. If it spread over the whole head, it seldom affected the ears, supercilii, and eyelids. In this lie b ec freely, and, like Le Dran, cut to the bone to unbridle the parts. The other was more bilious, the skm was yellow is i, the inflammation more extensive, and communicated to t le ears and coverings of the eyes; there was no gieat Pain nor tension, nor fatiguing restlessness, but there was gieatei nausea. We have here, in ffvct, from practice, a description of the two theoretical species of impure and pure eDslPe as‘ Desault afterwards reverted to the phlegmonous and bilious; teaching, however, that the former was convertible, U°° ‘ letting, into the latter, and that the best remedy for the lattet was not neutral salts, but tartrate of antimony, given in small, but frequent doses, so as to purge freely, rather than toexci e vomiting. To neither of these propositions am I disposed to subscribe. That the character of erythema may, and gene- rally does change by continuance, I am well convinced o , but this arises from the fact I have stated, that local diseases disorder the internal viscera, and these again react on the disease It is time, therefore, and not venesection, winch converts phlegmonous into bilious erysipelas, if these terms are to b/retained. As to the practical proposition, I mu say that I have never seen any superiority in antmioma pie- pm-atimis over other laxatives; but, on the contrary, am of 1 • • tint in so far as they produce sickness and depiession, :Cr0’htr mse a Jtfons are often accompanied by