427 production of an eschar mechanically prevented the flow of blood, and in this respect acted like a ligature, or any other obstructing cause, destroying or suspending the function of the artery. It would mechanically shrivel or contract the part which was torrified, and this contraction would extend in a certain degree to the portion yet alive. Next, the effect produced on the extremity of the vessel not killed by the heat, would be inflammation. Lastly, it may be supposed that the heat would coagulate a certain portion of blood within the vessel. But this, if it take place, would be of no advantage, farther than as a mere temporary plug. For blood thus rapidly coagulated by heat, must be looked upon with much suspicion, as a source of irritation, and may indeed have been one cause of the failure of the process. This failure, admitted by all to be not unfrequent, was attributed to the degree of heat. If the iron were too hot, it burned the part to a cinder, and either pulled it away to itself, or it soon fell off, and left the vessel open. If not hot enough, it did not produce a sufficient eschar, and obliterate the vessel. To describe the various shapes of the cauterizing iron, for no thorough bred surgeon would use one of any other metal, the cunning way in which it was applied to the vessel, the directions for burying it to a depth proportioned to the size of the vessel, or the number of times that it should "be applied to the same spot, together with the controversies relating to the best degree of heat, is not necessary, as happily this mode of restraining haemorrhage is now abandoned. No wonder that in these days, Marianus says, the surgeon must be somewhat pitiless, and not mind the howlings of his patient. Boiling oils, or melted lead, or sulphur, were sometimes em- ployed as a variety, and in great engagements, or in hospitals, there were always at hand, pots of boiling oil, or of turpen- tine. Even after all these horrible applications, the patient was never secure, and happy was the surgeon who was not obliged to break the injunction, hot to remove the first dressing for several days. To avoid the terrible appearance of a hot iron, some used the potential cautery, which varied according to the caprice l