199 difference in the effect on the system. In almost every instance of extensive burn, or where sensible parts are affected, or the system is very susceptible, whatever the ultimate effects may be, the patient complains of coldness, and is apt to shiver ; and in such cases, whatever may be the complication with regard to sensibility, shock, &c. the pulse, in most instances, is very small, perhaps imperceptible, and this, if protracted, is always a bad symptom. A very common effect, even of a slight burn, is irritation; a state sometimes confounded with fever, but different from it. It is the consequence of the mere pain, and is marked by an excited condition, particularly of the sentient system. The patient is restless, soon tired of one posture, easily discom- posed both in mind and body, uncomfortable in his feelings, and yet cannot distinctly say how he is so. Ilis sleep is dis- turbed. The pulse, in slight degrees, is not affected, but in greater it is frequent and sharp. The chylopoietic viscera often suffer, and then we have dry tongue, thirst, anorexia, constipation, or diarrhoea, with secretion of bile, or retching, and perhaps an extensive train of sympathies. The continual fretting and exasperation of the system exhausts its power, and at the same time increases the evil, rendering the frame more irritable. A second effect is high sensation, or intolerable pain. This not only exhausts, for mere pain may kill, but it also acts most injuriously on the injured part, and likewise on the system at large, independent of its direct exhausting effect. Great pain, accompanied with shivering, is still worse, but these are seldom long combined; for if the case be severe, stu- por succeeds, and renders the person insensible to pain, or such an obtuse state is produced, as prevents perception. It has been supposed that the absence of pain was a bad sign, but this depends on the degree of injury and concomitant symptoms. It is chiefly to be dreaded when the extent of injury is considerable, the power of perception evidently diminished, <uul the sensibility so far deranged, along with the evolution of l.eat, as to give rise to feeling of coldness, or the production of shivering, or rigor.