183 some degree ol delirium, or by drowsiness, or even stupor, and long ago it was remarked by Le Dran, that they caused the same symptoms, as concussion of the brain. It does not appear, however, that these symptoms are connected essentially with the accident, for they are just as apt to take place when erysipelas proceeds from any other cause, how- evei obscure, dhe disease, when it succeeds an injury of the head, does not appear to depend on the condition of the biain 01 its coverings, but on the state of the scalp and peri- cranium. But when it is produced, it, as we have just seen, tends to interfere with the functions of the brain; and partly thus, and partly in the same way that erythema of any other place would act, it exercises a sympathetic effect on the organs of digestion, and may, in its turn, become influenced thereby. It will be very difficult to prove that erythema of the head ever takes place from an injury of the parts within the cra- nium, independent of external irritation, or is in any respect different from that produced by contusion, wound, or lacera- tion of the hand or foot, except in so far as, after its produc- tion, it may occasion this interference with the brain lying below, and the sympathetic effects resulting therefrom. Yet even in this respect, it is not singular; for, as we shall soon see, severe inflammation of other parts of the skin, from scalding, for example, can produce exactly the same result; and the only reason why the former, ceteris paribus, does it more frequently than the latter is, that it is more in the vici- nity of the brain. To be plain, this erythema may, in injuries of the head, seriously affect the brain, but it is rarely, if ever produced by disease confined within the cranium; and therefore I have noticed it here rather than hereafter. There is nothing peculiar in the treatment of this disease, nor can the moderns advise much more than the older writers. Ihe seat of the injury is to be carefully attended to. If there be no wound, but only a puffy or a tense swelling, we cannot do better than follow the old practice of dividing the part down to the bone. If there be an wound, that will generally e found in a state of irritation, and a small bread and milk poultice is the best application. * To the surrounding erythema,