c231 mouth, or produce debility. The local treatment consists in making at once, as soon as the boils appear, a crucial incision through the cutis, and then applying a poultice. This pre- vents their becoming larger, and the slough, if it form, is soon detached. If, however, the carbuncle have acquired consider- able size, it should be poulticed till it give way, and then it is to be freely divided, and a poultice laid again over it. Very soon the slough can be laid hold of, and removed by cutting its stiingy attachments. It may also be bathed with solution of chloride of lime. When it begins to heal, simple dressings are proper. There may be a succession of small inflammatory tumours. First, the spot feels hot and itchy, but there is scarcely any redness to be seen. Then, a little elevated red spot appears, with smarting heat. Speedily a superficial redness extends a little way around it, along the surface, whilst it becomes itself more prominent and larger, and soon has a vesicle at its top. This seldom bursts, but rather dries, and a small dark sub- stance, partly slough and partly scab, forms, and sometimes lemains for a considerable time. The margin is hard, and remains so for many days, and desquamation of the red skin takes place. The local treatment consists in applying either a bread and milk poultice, or lint spread with simple oint- ment. I have tried to check the progress by nitrate of silver, but seldom with success. Gentle laxatives are useful for the constitutional state, and if these fail, decoction of sarsaparilla alone, or with a very small quantity of muriate of mercury will be proper. 3 he presence of an irritating and deleterious cause actin«- on the inflamed parts, is a cause also of destruction. This is exemplified in effusion of urine into the cellular substance, which soon dies, and if the most active means be not used to procure its evacuation, or prevent its farther operation, the system at aige sinks. In such cases, there are indeed other grounds of c anger, but this of itself is sufficient to prove fatal. The part < ies hist, and then the system sympathizes and sinks rapidly. Anothei troublesome, and still more dangerous species of ow inflammation, is erysipelas arising in an intemperate and