368 action supervening in the same way as we may have a scrofu- lous modification of a secretion. In what the diathesis consists, I can no more tell than I can explain the peculiarity of cancerous action. It is a par- ticular condition, giving rise to a special action, and this, which is saying little, is saying all that is known. It has been supposed that the essence of this peculiarity consisted in debi- lity, and that scrofula was a disease of weakness. Indolence may allow dust and rubbish to accumulate, but never can erect even an unseemly edifice. Debility may perhaps induce oedema, but it never can build up an organized tumour. I lie verv idea is so unphilosophical, that it can only be admitted from mere want of consideration. Debility may exist in every form and degree, under every circumstance, with or without inflammation, with or without tumour, with or without any local disease, and yet no scrofulous symptom appear. That it may—that it does, facilitate the appearance of scrofulous disease where there is diathesis, or aggravate the disease where it exists, I am willing to admit; but that it can, as some sup- pose, produce the disease, is quite inconceivable. Can it change a texture ? Can it produce a new growth? Can it swell out a bone ? Can it array a sore or ulcer in a peculiar dress, or secrete a scrofulous pus ? Happy system of imbeci- lity ' Cordials, .tonics, and nourishment, may then defy the worst disease that may be met with. But whilst I cannot for a moment allow the diathesis to consist in debility, I never- theless admit, that whatever weakens the system, or impairs the natural or healthy action, will render the diathesis more likely to produce disease. This is an observation not con- fined to scrofula, but applicable to most diseases, if not to all. For surely it is consonant to common sense to believe, that in proportion as we impair or injure the general health, we shall render the system more liable to disease. Debility, therefore, may be considered as a predisposing cause of disease, but I apprehend that a view too general is often taken ot debility. ' We can conceive the whole system, by some per- vading cause, to be weakened both in its power and action,