nerve, it is vain to expect benefit from any mean which does not act on that. If an extraneous body be lodged there, or in the course or substance of the trunk, or if a tumour be formed, or pressure in any way made, nothing but the removal of the immediate cause can be of service; for instance, the extraction of the foreign substance, or the excision of the tumour, and of the portion of nerve involved in it. But there are effects produced sympathetically on the origin ol the nerve, which may subside by time, or be removed by acting on the organ previously alfected, when that can be discovered. It is on this principle that we find a course of laxatives, alteratives, as they are called, mineral waters, change of air, with regular exercise, attention to diet, remedies for removing dyspepsia, and its effects, &c. do good in differ- ent cases of acutely sensible nerves. When there is a remit- tent or intermittent fever, as happens in many nervous affec- tions, quinine is of use. I have always found that, or arsenic, efficacious, in proportion as the disease manifested a disposi- tion to make its attack in regular paroxysms. The mere lapse of time, especially if we do not aggravate the complaint by stimulants, sometimes brings about a cure. Palliating symp- toms, also promotes recovery or restoration to health. Hence, opiates internally and externally ax*e useful; and it has been well remarked by practical writers, that in cases of neuralgia, although the pain sometimes prevents sleep, yet, if the patient fall asleep, it rarely makes its attack so as to awaken him. There is very often, especially when the pain comes on with- out an evident cause at regular hours, an increased action of the vessels of the part, marked by heat and throbbing. Leeches always mitigate the pain in this case, but they cannot be regularly repeated. When there is reason to suppose that a turgescence of the vessels in the spinal cord is the cause, venesection is proper, and does good, especially if carried to the extent of producing sickness; but this is generally only a temporary cure, and cannot be frequently resorted to. Purga- tives and emmenagogues are, in females, more useful as per- manent remedies. It is sometimes fortunate for the patient, when the effect of