c28c2 s inflammation. Ihe matter is never confined in a sac like an abscess, and must be freely discharged, and the treatment proper m gangrenous inflammation pursued. A diffused suppuration is often of this nature. It does not form an abscess, but infiltrates itself in the cells, which soon die, and form a gray or ash-coloured slough, as we see in furunculus, or large portions may die, and be drawn out with forceps. A peculiar affection, often of the suppurative nature, and allied to this condition just noticed, arises from wounds or punctures received in dissection. The effects are far from being always the same, as the nature of the virus differs, and also the wound. The mere application of putrid animal matter can inflame and produce a very painful sore of a bad kind causing also fever; but generally the fluid applied to the scratch is a secretion either morbid or putrid. Putrid serum injected into the cellular substance produces inflammation, death of the texture, and often a fatal irritation of the whole system. 1 us yielded by gangrenous parts, or morbid mucus, or inter- stitial fluid in certain cases of an obscure nature, acting on a Puncture or scratch will inflame that, and cause a dull Erysi- pelatous inflammation, ending in vesication, filled sometimes with a clear or reddish, at other times with an albuminous fluid. Ihe sore is long of healing, but no extensive evil follows. In other cases most painful inflammation often of the gangrenous kind comes on, and the whole hand swells greatly; the fingers are bent, and the wrist and forearm par- ticipate in the swelling and pain. Matter forms under the fascia, and diffuses itself, and in some places even livid spots or mortified portions may be seen. The constitution is greatly affected, there is foul tongue, hot skin, frequent pulse, depression of strength, and sometimes fatal exhaustion. Poultices and free openings are the most useful remedies, whilst we evacuate feculent matter, and support the strength with light nourishment. When matter forms to a greater extent, or at a distance from the hand, as for instance about the shoulder or side, it is never confined as in an abscess, but is either partly diffused, like an oedema among the cells of the skin, and the rest contained under the detached skin, or it