472 than from direct weakness. Our object, then, must be, clearly, to operate as early as possible; or if the system have suf- fered, or the limb become oedematous or diseased, we endea- vour, by mild laxatives, light diet, and rest, to bring the con- stitution into a better state, and remove, as far as we can, the unfavourable condition of the limb. If the pulse be full and throbbing, it has been proposed to abstract blood, but this is never to be done hastily, and often such a state of the pulse will be found to depend on aneurism of the aorta, or of the origin of one of the great vessels it gives off. It seems to be admitted, that if there be two aneurisms, the progress of the one is accelerated by operating for the cure of the other, and the second operation, so far as I have seen, is more hazardous than the first. Still, as death may pos- sibly be averted, the chance ought to be taken. But if there be an internal aneurism evidently existing, an operation should only be performed at the entreaty of the patient, and after explaining to him, not only the futui’e consequences of that aneurism, but the greater risk of death soon after the operation. When the temperature sinks after the operation, we must be careful not to excite the limb too much by heat, nor injure it by cold. It is in general quite sufficient to cover the part with a bad conducter of heat, such as flannel, cotton wool, &c. so as to allow it slowly to accumulate a little heat, rather beyond the temperature which it would otherwise possess. The direct application of heat is injurious, or if practised at all, must be made with the greatest circumspection. When the temperature rises, we must, on the other hand, be cautious in the application of cold, for the limb is delicate, and easily injured. It is better to have it only lightly covered with linen or gauze for some time. At most, we should only sponge it occasionally with cool water, for evaporating lotions, as they are called, are apt to sink the part too fast. If fever be produced, with general disorder of the system, purgatives are safer than the lancet, unless in those cases where particular symptoms demand it, such as pain of the side, violent throbbing in the head, &c. When we do bleed,