4S They become red, and thick, and softer, and painful, and whilst the cellular substance around participates in the inflammation, the sheath itself becomes much distended with glairy fluid. The bursas follow the same course. In both, it the inflammation be acute, there is very considerable con- stitutional irritation, and sometimes smart fever. The tendons themselves, which are also of a fibrous nature, are inflamed with more difficulty than their sheaths; and in most cases of sprain, it is the latter which cause the most pain, and are the seat of inflammation. Still the tendon may inflame. It naturally possesses very few red vessels, and has little sensibility, but when inflamed it does become some- what redder, and is painful. It does not, however, become primarily very red, but rather loses its shining appearance, and ends in sloughing. I think there is a deception in the aspect. If we expose either the sheath or the tendon itself of an animal, we find that it soon is covered with an exuda- tion arising partly from its own surface, partly from the neighbouring cellular substance. This next becomes red, and the part is closed up or defended, and we see no more of what goes on below, for the granulations proceed as in a common ulcer, and there is strong reason to believe that the tendon itself suffers very little, and has but little to do in this process. It is difficult, even by passing a seton through a tendon, to make it inflame in its whole substance; we never have infiltration of blood into it, and the redness is chiefly evident in a superstratum or vascular envelope. Still the substance does become somewhat redder, and small vessels seem to run to, or rather from the spot where the seton passed. It scarcely swells until it die, and then it forms a kind of macerated tough mass. It never before death becomes so fragile or easily torn as the membranes, and any changes it undergoes in apparent texture during its life, are more the effect of chronic than acute inflammation, but they are much less than in many other textures, or to speak correctly, tendons resist inflammation much more than many other textures. -f he synovial membrane of joints resembles in some respects