hectic. Tins cancerous cachexia, however, gives diathesis, even if that did exist before, and where it is thus pro- duced, it is vain to think of operating. For, besides tbe disposition, we have a state of actual disease pervading the system. Cancer, strictly speaking, is an encysted tumour; and it is to the changes which take place in the cysts, that we are principally to attribute the danger. For the solid gristly matter though it may add to the bulk, is not the source of immediate mischief, otherwise than as serving as a nidus for the farther formation of cells. It may indeed be said, that the cysts precede and occasion the formation of the gristly substance. Of this there is no proof. But granting it to be so, I am only the more supported in affirming the cysts to be the main-spring of the disease. If, on the other hand, the previous existence of gristly structure be held necessary for the production of cysts, I must still look on it onty as the hotbed in which these are raised and brought to maturity. These cysts are supposed by some to be animals or hydatids. It is in vain to say to an advocate for this theory, that they are filled at first with puffy or solid substance more or less firm, or that they are gristly in their coats, or become gradually filled with fluid by a change going on from the centre towards the circumference. It is vain to urge any argument; hyda- tids they are called, and hydatids they must be, even if they possessed bones and arteries. Vessels they have, and they have been described (in some cases, as being larger at their extremities than in their trunks). Their osteology has not yet been described, but calcareous deposites have been noticed. W ell, if a term be to aid us, I will not quarrel with it, pro- vided that cyst and hydatid are held to be synonymous; nay, on a similar paction, I would not refuse to admit the cysts to be real cancers or crabs. Still, however, as a wicked poet said, “ Fleas are not lobsters.” Different modes of treatment present themselves: First, it may be proposed to get rid of the tumour by absorption. V'e know that a cancerous tumour is daily absorbed, but it is daily regenerated, perhaps even in a greater degree than it