485 a little dilated. If we pinch up the varix between the finger and thumb, the thrill is lost, but the deeper throb is per- ceived. In noticing the consequences ol this injury, I men- tioned, that part of the blood from the artery returned by the venous trunk, and, therefore, there should be less circulating below. This position, however, seems to be more limited than we should at first suppose ; for the arm is rarely wasted, the pulse is often as strong at the wrist as formerly, and the power of the arm is not diminished. I know it is stated as a character of the disease, that the pulse at the wrist is weak, and this may be the case; but I am correct in saying, that it is not only not essential, but perhaps not general. It is natu- ral, however, to suppose, that much will depend on the size of the aperture in the artery ; and when the transmission is very copiously made into the vein, we may have the artery diminished below, and the pulse rendered weaker. It is rea- sonable to suppose, that the trunk of the artery above the orifice should be enlarged, in consequence of this large graft on the vessel, but even this is not invariably the case. As . more or less blood must, in every case, be sent off from the artery, there ought, at all events, to be a very different state of the vessels below, from that produced by false aneurism, for, there, the collateral branches ought to enlarge, here, they are rather curbed than excited. It may also be easily under- stood why an operation, such as that performed in ordinary aneurism, must fail, or be likely to prove fatal. For if we tie the artery above the varix or tumour, we indeed prevent the direct descent of the blood ; but, as in other cases, it finds its way to the trunk below, by anastomosing branches, and it would be a waste of time to prove that a part of this must, by a retrograde course, get to the aperture, and thence into the vein. The limb, then, is in a very different state from that after an operation for true aneurism, where the whole tendency must be to the enlargement of branches, and the supply of the limb below. The retrograde circulation can only fill the sac, and is not likely to pass up into its superior aperture, where indeed it would be met with blood furnished by collateral branches entering the trunk below the ligature.