42 degree of tumour, and feeling of elasticity, or almost of fluctuation produced. It is evident, that this cannot be from the contraction of the fascia, or its firmness, for it is really softer, and less fibrous, but it arises from the secondary effects, namely, the cellular effusion, distending the skin, and particularly the swelling of the muscles and cellular sub- stance below, whereby the fascia is stretched. There is always considerable fever, and often great pain accompanied with feeling of weight and tumour, attendant on this inflam- mation, and the system, suffers so much, that often aphthae are formed very copiously on the fauces. The tongue is dry, and foul, or sore, and sometimes delirium takes place. The different states I have been considering, are intimately blended together, and of great importance in surgery. We may have the reticular or vascular sheath of the skin inflamed, and, if severe, effusion of serum takes place on its outer surface. The corium may participate, or be princi- pally affected, and involve the rete, and likewise the subcu- taneous tissue, which may also be originally affected, and interest the muscular fascia, and thence deeper inflammation may take place. The consequences of any or all of these may, according to the severity of the primary evil, or the shading off of the succeeding ones, be effusion either of watery or gelatinous fluid, ending in suppuration, or in gangrene. We, in deep-seated and serious injury, often have vesication of the skin, with very little previous redness. The surgeon ought to attend particularly to the cause, and its mode of operating. The same general character pertains to the various modifi- cations of inflammation of fibrous membrane. For instance, the dura mater exhibits the same change of appearance and structure, and is attended with the same effusion both out- wardly and inwardly ; the former being better seen than in the case of a fascia, from there being no cellular substance between it and the cranium, and we see also the greater tendency to the formation of matter under than abo^ the membrane. The sheaths of tendons exhibit the same appearances.