178 application of moderate cold is more pleasant and useful. These must be determined by experiment. If these means do not speedily give relief, we should use tepid or even warm fomentations, and emollient poultices to promote suppuration. Venesection is to be resorted to or not, according to the deoree of fever and the state of the local inflammation; but O . whilst we in external injuries bleed as freely as may be neces- sary to allay or subdue high inflammation, we should be care- ful not to go beyond this point, and bring the patient into a degree of debility, which would render recovery from a state of irritation, accompanied perhaps with profuse suppuration, very difficult. Leeches applied to the inflamed skin, may, or may not, be proper, according to the degree and activity ot the inflammation, and the vigour as well as the soundness of the constitution, but particularly in so far as they can or cannot be expected to relieve any deeper or subcutaneous disease, with which the erythema is connected. If employed at all, they ought to be applied effectively. When parts firmly covered with fascia have been punctured, or partially torn, a division of that fascia may be necessary, either when it is much dis- tended by swelling of the parts below, or when matter is con- fined. The last case is so obvious that none can doubt the propriety, but the first has been disputed, as it is said the tumour will go off when the inflammation abates. Ihis is true, but it is no less so, that tension of fibrous membrane is a very effectual means of keeping up inflammation. As the local disease is apt to produce sympathetic disorder of the chylopoietic viscera, or of the nervous system, which will in its turn re-act on the original disease, it is evident that means must be used to allay such disorder when it occurs, or if possible to prevent its production. This is best done by light diet, keeping the bowels regular, and obviating symptoms as they may arise. When pain cannot be allayed by the local means pointed out, an opiate should be given, conjoined with a laxative. There should be a free ventilation ot air, and the temperature should be determined by the sensation of the patient. If suppuration take place, the abscess seldom is raised so as to become in any degree conical, but it lies