239 chloride ot soda applied to the black slough changes it into the gray, and destroys the smell. The gray or ash slough is almost an invariable product of gangrenous suppuration, that is a diffused suppuration, ending in death of the cellular sub- stance. but we must not confound such ash-coloured slough with thick exudation of fibrin, which is often met with on the tonsils and elsewhere. The system goes along with the part. The strength sinks, .e Pulse becomes weaker, generally more frequent, perhaps intermittent or irregular. Hiccup almost invariably comes on. 1 he tongue is dry; and, if the patient linger, aphthm are apt to take place. The extremities become cold, and death, often preceded by vomiting or nausea, and low delirium takes place. ben the progress is checked, the constitutional effects sowy subside, but the local is the most remarkable change. ie skin immediately beyond the gangrene, was, during the progress of the disease, livid, or affected with gangrent ous inflammation. But now it is of a brighter colour; ie character of the inflammation is altered, and speedily the oundary is marked by a line of suppuration. There is an error in the general account, for we are told that a line of inflam- mation marks the boundary, and that the ulcerative process commences there, in order, as it is said by the advocates, for a motive in the part, or determination in the adoption of a nal cause, for the dead to be separated from the living por_ tion. ut the truth is, there always was a line of inflamma- tion, but ,t was of a different character. It is now healthy • it was formerly gangrenous. The demarkation, however ii not altogether by this line, but by its surface next die gangienous part, and tins is not in a state of ulceration, but ■wS ”? “ ‘he suppurative action. We hnd that nohtemorrhage attends this separation, althou.d, tge vessels be interested. The blood cannot circulated he sphacelated part, for that is all a dead mass; but how U this detached without leaving an orifice at the senary 1 vessel in the sound parts. We are told that the blood cot ** ales, and the vessel, so far as is necessary beyond the spine' f - obhterated. I suspect an effect is pu, bed ib, a ^ “ti