21 Third, Conjunct weakness, produced by the nature of the action, which is so opposite to the natural one, that it not onlv exhausts, but impairs or destroys the power of renewing energy, which is one part of the natural action. This is the case with respect to several animal poisons, and certain causes producing what is called gangrenous inflammation. We may to this head also refer most, if not all of those cases, where peculiarity of weakness is produced by affections of necessary functions. If venous blood circulate in the arteries, in place of arterial blood, there is not only a want of due and healthy excitement to the nerves, but a direct bar to the formation or renewal of nervous energy. Carbonic acid inhaled into the lungs, not only acts directly on the nerves of the lungs, but in this way on the blood, and asphyxia is produced; other agents may produce similar effects, varying from complete asphyxia, down to slight and modified degrees of it. On this principle, whenever the heart or lungs are decidedly imper- fect in their action, we find that injuries and disease are, cetens paribus, more dangerous, and less easily recovered from. We are also more shy in operating. Ossified arteries may often produce a similar influence. If by any cause the natural preservative action of the part be diminished, the power also is lessened, and the debility produced, may either be conjunct or antecedent, according to the nature of the case. But it is of importance to remember, that this obser- vation is not applicable to that class of actions, which is not immediately necessary to the life and preservation of the part. ^ here may be suspension of performance of certain functions, or a quiescence of the part, in so far as peculiar function is concerned, without debility. It is also possible for certain parts of action, or properties of an organ, to be impaired, or even suspended, and yet that organ may be in a state of too high action, considered generally; a part may also, without being in a state of excitement or overaction, have such a disordered condition produced, as shall give rise to irritation, and cause, directly or indirectly, exhaustion. 'I here is also a state which, strictly speaking, can scarcely )e ca ed weakness, in which the energy is not exhausted nor