518 muscular fibre, &c. The same kind of action which existed in the part originally diseased, may be transferred to a distant part. Thus it appears, on good evidence, that pus has been removed from an abscess by absorption. The purulent action has ceased there, and appeared in another place. It was ima- gined that the identical pus absorbed was deposited there : a supposition which does not merit to be refuted, for it is the action we are to look to, and not the matter or substance employed. This opinion, however, I will not apply to pus absorbed, and discharged by urine. Another consequence of wounds is the production of spas- modic affections, arising, like some of the former, from excite- ment or irritation of the origin of the nerves. Of this kind is singultus, which is often a very obstinate, and even fatal affection. It exhausts and wears out the patient. But this is not all; for as it is produced by the state of the origin of the phrenic nerve, the same cause which produces that also causes directly, or sympathetically, changes in the neighbour- ing part. The pulse is either rapid, or irregular and inter- mittent, and the patient dies either in a stupor, or is carried off in a convulsion. The treatment in this affection is, first of all, to allay or remove every perceptible cause of irritation about the wound, and, at the same time, to administer pur- gatives. If the state of the pulse indicate it, the patient should be cupped in the neck, and a blister should be applied there whether we cup or not. Antispasmodics, such as musk alone, or with carbonate of ammonia, or asther, or powerful doses of opium, have been recommended, but they are only sub- sidiary to the former means ; and, indeed, he who escapes by any treatment, however active, does more than may be calcu- lated upon. Amputation I have never known prove successful. Another still more formidable consequence of the state alluded to, is tetanus. A disease which has its name derived from the Greek verb signifying to stretch. This is sub- divided into the opisthotonous, in which the body is bent back, which is the most frequent kind. The emprosthotonous, in which the body is bent forward; and the pleurosthotonous, in which it is drawn to one side. These are usually accom-