65 the thorax of a dog, and inject a little solution of salt, the lung becomes readily inflamed, whilst the pleura costalis is less, if at all affected. Next day, we may see the early stage of inflammation, which is most apt to take place in the lower lobe of the lung. We shall find part of the lung brown, or mottled, which appears to be an early mark of inflammation; part is still pale, and yet this has spots of extravasation under the pleura; part is reddish in its ground, with many arbo- rescent vessels spread over it, and every where the pleura covering the parts affected has an infiltrated appearance. 1 he substance of the lung is engorged with blood, and where this is greatest, and the redness deepest, there is generally a slight coating of thin bloody coagulum, and the pleura has a rough aspect, and dotted or papillary appearance. On cutting into the lung in this stage, we find that its cellular substance is infiltrated with blood; but the air cells are per- meable, so that the lung has a crepitating feel. If cut, bloody frothy fluid runs out, and by squeezing, we can restore it nearly to its natural state in point of consistence, though some extravasated blood remain, and arborescent vessels continue on the pleura. It is not more easily torn. A little bloody fluid is usually found in the thorax. In a more decided degree of inflammation, the lung becomes less permeable to air, and consequently has less crepitation. It becomes softer, and more easily broken or torn ; the fluid which runs out when cut is less frothy, and not so abundant. Then, it becomes still more solid, sinks in water, contains little or no air, and is converted into a granulated mass, best seen by tearing, for it is easily torn, and readily reduced to pulp by pressure. When cut, it does not collapse, and less fluid runs out. This has been called red hepatization of the lung, and is uniformly met with in severe degrees, and in this case the bronchial surface always participates in the inflammation. The lung becoming more infiltrated, seems in some cases to retain nearly the volume it ought to have in inspiration, so that the con- traction of the thorax in expiration is curbed; but this extreme degree is not common. The greater solidity adds sometimes more than one half to its weight, or in a few cases F