139 proved inadequate. When the inflamed organ is near the sur- face, and the constitution little or not at all affected, show- ing that the medulla spinalis has not materially participated, and especially if the part be small, and not peculiarly sensible, topical is much more effectual than general bleeding, and cures at less expense of strength. A sprained wrist or thumb may be relieved by leeches, without detriment; whereas general evacuation, before it could operate to the same extent on the part, must reduce the system at large to a great degree. It is, besides, bringing a fire engine to extinguish a candle. We can bleed freely from a part under circumstances where we could not take much blood from a vein ; and the topical evacuation often entirely removes that disease, which would otherwise only appear to be subdued, but which would really at some future time manifest itself in the formation of a new growth. No remedy is so powerful as bloodletting; and therefore it ought seldom to be neglected, but as it is also capable of doing much harm, it must be employed with prudence. It is well known that certain constitutions and ages bear eva- cuation better than others; and some inflammations bear it also better. In almost every case, however, of simple inflam- mation, it maybe resorted to; but in delicate habits, and inflam- mation of delicate parts, we are to bleed early, and not too long. Many may be saved by using the lancet within a few houis after the attack, who should be lost by it afterwards. Theie is perhaps no case that may not be benefited by the piompt use of the lancet; and this is peculiarly true of those cases, which soon become doubtful. We can, then, seldom bleed too early, and are seldom wrong when we do bleed early. On the other hand, if, in a case decidedly requiring the lancet, it have unduly been delayed, and the inflammation have gone on nearly to gangrene or to suppuration, the lancet can then do no good, but will only sink the patient sooner. It cannot cure the inflammation, nor the gangrene, nor the suppuration, and therefore in no view is it proper. There is one excep- tion to this rule, however, in inflammation of the lungs; for although the lancet have been too long neglected there, it