59 exudations of yellow matter like pus, or thick, buff, or ash- coloured secretions appear like sloughs. All of these are mere secretions and modifications of the natural mucus, mixed with more or less fibrin, and the appearance of the exudation, or slough, as it has been called, will vary according to the propor- tion and modification of the mucus, albumen, and fibrin. If we pour nitrous or nitro-muriatic acid on white of egg, we coagu- late it, and make it yellow and curdy, like the effusion on the tonsil. We coagulate it, and make it white, by nitrate of silver. This agent also, if applied to fibrin, or the buffy coat of blood, makes it white, as it would do the surface of a sore. If we attend to the appearance of inflammation of the mucous membrane of the fauces, we fincl that it varies much; sometimes the membrane is of a deep red or damask colour, and no secretion is formed. In this, which is a frequent case, it is probable that the origin of the disease is deeper, and the membrane is affected in a secondary way. In other cases, particularly those arising from infection, there are par- tial effusions of blood, with minute injection of the small vessels, forming irregular patches of deeper colour amongst a diffused redness, and the orifices of the follicles become more distinct. The patches end in streaks, which rapidly become covered with the buff or ash exudation, and if this be removed, the surface below is found to be red, injected, but not abraded. There are'many modifications of this. In some, there are small spots of white coloured albumen, called aphthae ; in others, partial effusion of dense firm yellow fibrin, which adheres intimately for months. In others, more extensive effusions, called sloughs, which may even become decomposed or putrify; but gangrene of the membrane itself is more rare. Whether the effusion be thick or thin, it loosens and begins to separate, when the inflammation subsides. A very fatal modification of albumenous effusion, is,the malignant aphthous throat, which is exceedingly apt to extend into the larynx, and produce fatal croup; but I am not writing a general pathology. As an illustration of inflammation of a simple mucous mem- brane, I may select the trachea and its ramifications. If we