144 die arteries. It is one tiling to make the heart beat feebly, and to depress the muscular system, and another thing to make the heart beat naturally, and check the inflammatory action. It is one thing to lessen the stimulus to action, and another to throw a veil over the excitement. In fine, we smother the flame, but do not extinguish the fire. We give large doses of tartar emetic, digitalis, and nauseating drugs, but we find either, that here, as in mania, no effect at all is produced, unless a prodigious dose be given, or, that when the effect is produced by a large or small dose, no mitigation is obtained. Tartar emetic has long been employed in erysi- pelas ; and there, as sickness may moderate circulation in the extreme vessels, we should hope for benefit; but farther than an emetic or purgative may be required or useful, it does no good; and in other cases it is so far worse than useless, that we produce a depression of the system without a removal of the disorder, and trusting to it we shall neglect more certain remedies. There is only one case in which it is useful, and that is in pleurisy where the violence having been checked by the lancet, a tendency to nausea excited by the medicine, is sometimes beneficial as an expectorant, and in mitigating the cough. Digitalis I employed freely, with a view of avoiding the necessity of bleeding, but I did not find it succeed; and for many years I have only used it after depletion, when I apprehended any tendency to effusion in the thorax. Prussic acid in a small dose has no effect whatever, and if given so as to produce its carotic effect, or apparent syncope, (in which case alone it can be expected to check inflamma- tion), it does no more than a deliquium or temporary insensi- bility from any other cause would do. It does not change action, although it may obliterate, for a time, sensation or consciousness. Colchicum cannot be trusted to. On the whole, my practical conviction is, that no reliance can be placed on any or all of these remedies alone, and that they can only under particular circumstances do good after the proper use of the lancet. Prussic acid, for instance, in small doses, has appeared to do good in some cases that threatened to become phthisical.