20 xeadiJy recovered from. It ought to be taken into account on determining an operation. There is no direct sedative, if by that be understood a diminisher of action. Loss of blood, cold, abstinence, &c. lessen action only by subducting stimuli, but even these may be so managed as to cause excitation. Those agents which do produce conjunct weakness, increase for a time, action, but the action is not of a kind to do good. The peculiar effect of many of these on certain parts of the nervous system, or on the stomach, must also be taken into account, separately from their direct effect on the part on which they immediately act. They may kill by their effect on the brain and circula- tion. If we confine our attention to the obvious effect pro- duced on the circulation in the part itself, we shall invariably find, I believe, that it is increased. If we apply prussic acid, putrid animal fluid, decoction of ergot, solution of acetate of lead to the web of a frog, this is observable. Belladonna, which acts so decidedly on the retina, decidedly makes the capillary circulation brisker. Digitalis, though it may pro- duce a momentary pause, or slowness in the circulation, almost immediately quickens it, particularly in the veins. Second, Consecutive or secondary debility, produced by previous action, as for instance by high inflammation, or severe injury, or any other species of excitation, beyond the powers of the part, or of the system, safely to sustain. This requires consideration in determining an operation after injuries. Many circumstances increase the effect of causes capable of producing this, beyond what we can account for, merely on a calculation of disproportioned action. Great and sudden sensation has a powerful effect of sinking. A very susceptible state of the system has the same effect, and hence a degree of disease exactly proportioned to the strength of the infant and adult, will have a more powerful effect on the former, than on the latter: we must also consider the actual degree of power, or antecedent weakness existing; for the child, and the old man, are both sooner worn out than the middle aged. This kind of debility is well named exhaustion.