379 absorbed either naturally or by the aid of art. They have always a tendency to increase, and sometimes, though not often, do so pretty rapidly. Partly on account of the present deformity, and partly from the fear of their becoming still larger, it is often desirable to have them removed. When, however, they are nearly stationary, their removal is optional on the part of the patient. The application of blisters, strong friction, or continued pressure, have been employed to promote absorption, but rarely with any success. More confidence is placed in pres- sure, in causing the absorption of a ganglion than of any other encysted tumour. It has also been proposed by a smart blow to rupture the coat of the ganglion, and allow the matter to escape into the neighbouring cellular substance. This is a bad plan, for, although it sometimes succeeds, it may cause pain, or, what is worse, be followed by troublesome in- flammation. If continued steady pressure, do not cause ab- sorption, the ganglion should either be altogether let alone, or be emptied by a small oblique puncture, or be carefully dis- sected out, and adhesion be produced as speedily as possible. It must not, however, be concealed that this operation is some- times followed, for a considerable time, by pain, burning heat, or other unpleasant sensations, either continued or coming in paroxysms. The external application of tincture of opium, or the affusion of cold water on the part, or the internal use of arsenic have appeared to remove these sensa- tions, although possibly the cure might be attributed to time. The best way of removing an encysted tumour, is to dissect it completely out; for which purpose we wish not to injure the cyst, but to keep it entire during the operation; the lips of the wound are then to be brought together, and adhesion promoted. There can be but one opinion with respect to the superiority of this practice with regard to tumours, if small, or even ol moderate size, but when they are large, and par- ticularly when connected with important vessels or nerves, their complete excision would constitute a very formidable operation. It has, therefore, been proposed to puncture these tumours, press out their contents, and trust to inflanuna-