77 and very often the whole subcutaneous texture swells and inflames, and even the skin participates, so that the limb is prodigiously swelled; extensive suppuration takes place, and the subcutaneous texture sometimes perishes in considerable quantity, or the skin partakes of the destruction. But these effects, probably, in many cases arise from the effect on the nerves which accompany the vein, or are connected with it as much as from the venous inflammation itself. Like an inflamed artery, the canal ceases to perform its function of transmission with perfection, so that it sometimes becomes distended, or the blood passes slowly along it, and layers are formed, somewhat, as in aneurism; a circumstance rarely, if ever met with in inflammation of arteries. The canal may thus be obliterated; and partly in consequence of this, partly as a more direct effect of disease of the cellular sub- stance, oedema may be extensively produced in the limb. The coating of fibrin, however, which is met with on the sur- face is much more frequently an exudation consequent to inflammation. The inflammation may slowly subside, the baldness of the cord abate, and the calibre of the tube be pre- served, but very often the canal is obliterated, and the vein converted into a solid cord. I have been consulted respect- ing wounds of the artery made through the vein in venesec- tion, when, in consequence of firm pressure, this state of the vein has been produced, and a perfect cure obtained without the production of aneurismal varix. If resolution do not take place, suppuration occurs with or without a layer of fibrin. The pus may be contained in the substance of the thickened vein, or in the cellular substance around it, or it may be poured into the cavity of the vein, and found there more or less mixed with blood or serum, and may be found even in the middle of a coagulum, or the cavity may be filled with a sanious, or grayish broken down clot. Sometimes there are collections of pus at different parts of the vein, with coagula, or obliteration, intervening; and some of these collections^may burst externally, though most of such as do so are formed exterior to the venous canal. The lymphatic glands often swell, when this suppuration exists. 4