317 no cellular appearance is discovered, but the section has either a granulated appearance, or it is smooth, dense, and polished somewhat like cartilage. Very often the section, though at first smooth, quickly presents an appearance of grains, or little prominences, which, when touched with the point of a lancet, and examined with a glass, seem to exude a speck of pellucid lymph. If the tumour be boiled, either in water or in vinegar, it becomes harder, and more contracted. It seems to contain a considerable proportion of albumen. This change is capable of being accelerated by many causes, espe- ciahy by such as in any degree produce a permanent, or evince a frequent irritation or excitement; and hence, if we do not extirpate the tumour early as a precaution, it follows that we must sedulously attend to the general health, the mode of living, the influence of distant sympathies, and the operation of directly local excitation. SECTION FOURTH. Another tumour I shall notice is one so totally unlike the former in its appearance, that I can only justify my selection of it to be placed next, on account of its apparent simplicity. It is cellular like the former, but as vascular as the placenta, to which it bears so great a resemblance, that it may not improperly be called the placentary tumour. It was long a^o noticed by Severinus under the name of the “ tuberculum cruentum atrum;” afterwards by Petit as a varicose affec- tion, and more lately by Mr. John Bell under the appellation o anastomosing aneurism. He considers it as of cellular nature, each artery opening into a cell from a corresponding vein, arises; and Mr. Freer says he has injected these cells! Others, however, from the same testimony of injection, main- tain that these apparent cells consist merely of an inextri- cab e network of vessels, no intermediate cell existing. Dupuv- tren says this is a particular texture naturally in the body formed by a fibrous membrane, from the internal surface of W 10 Ueie Passes a multitude of prolongations, inter crossing each other in all directions, and sustaining artels and vetns prodigiously subdivided. It exists in the corpora