330 most frequently met with in glandular organs. It begins as » elastic swelling, which communicates to the feel the idea that a fluid is contained under a firm fascia, or resembles that which would be communicated by a sponge very tightly tied up in a bladder, on which account I have called it sponmAd tumour. When pressed with the finger, the point yields a bttle, but rebounds with elasticity when pressure is removed; no fluctuation, however, is discovered in a large tumour, but merely an elasticity of individual points. This is a circum- stance which in this and other much less formidable diseases, indicates not the existence of matter, but merely of a very tense state oi the skin produced by a firm but compressible swelling of the parts below the swelling, or a lymphatic packing between it and the skin, as I have noticed on a former occa- sion. Some parts of the tumour feel firmer and harder than others, but the surface of the tumour is at first in general equal. Some degree of pain, generally shooting, some- times deep and gnawing, is early perceived; presently the suiface becomes unequal, and projects at one or more points; these soon become discoloured, and now, if not earlier, the lymphatic glands in the course of the absorbents, become somewhat enlarged, the projections become more prominent, redder, or more purple, the skin gives way by a species of sloughing or abrasion, and the tumour soon sprouts out, and at the same time its exposed surface discharges a bloody serum. This surface, which is very vascular, becomes covered, more or less completely, with an ash-coloured kind of lymph. It dischaiges much thin, red, or saffron-coloured serous fluid, whilst the vessels, particularly the veins, often discharge pure blood. A laige tumour may have several of these exposed exciescences, which, passing for bloody fungi, things which bave no existence in any disease, have procured for this tumour, from Mr. Hay, the name of fungus hsematodes. Such excres- cences are not fungous growths by granulation, but protru- sions consequent to the expansion of the tumour; they are elevated like a cauliflower beyond the tumour; they are soft to the feel; and this decided elevation, this softness, the elasti- city of the tumour, and the absence of general hardness, at