31 they are not essential to its existence. When blood is effused, it afterwards undergoes changes in the progress of the disease, and loses its colouring matter. Farther, the organic particles which ought to be regularly deposited in lieu of these absorbed, seem more or less altered, but chiefly in the cellular texture. From these causes, when a phlegmon is cut, it appears like a bloody mass of thick cells filled with fibrin and blood. In many cases the cells are so distended, that the mass appears to be made up of firm gelatinous looking fibrin, more or less red, and in some places the blood appears to be effused and coagulated with very little change. In all intense inflammations rapidly produced, the first effusion, I believe, is blood. Into the neighbouring cells where there is no actual inflammation, serum and modified albumen are soon deposited, so as to produce a degree of oedema. Setting aside then altogether the change which takes place in the vessels, and in the action of the nerves, there is a marked alteration in the organization of the part, which not only has its natural cells filled with fibrin, mixed probably with more or less albumen, but the organic particles, whether osseous, tendinous, or fibrous, natural to the organ, are imperfect, or different from what they ought to be. This is more marked, however, in some textures than in others, under the same degree of inflammation ; but it is not to be confounded with the mere deposition of fibrin, which is always greatest in cellular substance. If this deposition be not absorbed or destroyed, it undergoes farther changes of a secondary nature, and remains as a parasite, or new structure. A phlegmon is hard and solid to the feel. It is not sharply defined, but shades off into the surrounding parts, which are slightly cedematous. The skin over the tumour is more or less red tinged with yellow. It then becomes more glossy and red, sometimes florid, oftener of a shade of purple lrom the number of veins, or it continues dusky, or is of a very pale red, and watery or infiltrated appearance. The whole is tender to the touch, but when it can bear pressure, there is early observed on the apex, a softening or elasticity, which extends in proportion as matter forms.