238 is either detached, or raised in blisters. When quite black, cold, and in a state of slough, nosologists then say it is sphacelated. Mortification has also been divided into two different kinds. When it took place slowly, without previous inflammation, it was termed the dry or chronic gangrene, because the parts became shrivelled and harder. When, on the other hand, it was preceded by inflammation, the parts dying more rapidly, retained a greater quantity of their fluids, and this was called the inflammatory, acute, or humid gangrene. It has been disputed whether in every instance gangrene were not preceded by inflammation; the answer must depend very much upon the definition we choose to give of the disease. Mortification may affect any part, and under every circumstance. I have spoken of it first as attacking parts covered with the integuments, but it may appear on surfaces usually said to be ulcerated. Then more or less of that surface, generally only a part, becomes first painful, and of a brighter red colour, next purple, and lastly black and sphacelated, and thus by the death of successive portions, there may be great destruction of substance. I need take up little time to prove that no ulcer can mortify, for the strict process of ulceration, that is the compound one of suppura- tion and granulation, cannot go on with the act of dying. An ulcer, or rather a sore, may mortify, but its action must pre- viously become inflammatory, not ulcerative. If a limb, which has been the seat of an ulcer, inflame and mortify, for example, from popliteal aneurism, or any other cause productive of mortification, we find, that the ulcer lives, whilst the skin which was only inflamed dies; if the ulcer die it first ceases to be an ulcer, and is inflamed. I appeal to the observation of attentive surgeons for the truth of this position. Parts may die, and yet remain of an ash or buff colour, and the slough may never become black. This is the case often with lymphatic glands, or portions of tendon, or of cellular substance in furunculus. Certain causes seem to produce either the black or gray slough. Sulphate of zinc applied to an ulcer, produces the gray, whilst alkaline caustic so applied, would produce the black slough. A solution of