sometimes very thick and viscid, at other times it is thin like that of serum. The appearance is also different even of dif- ferent portions of the same cyst, which we can only explain from a difference of gravity, or from their being immiscible. The secretion may be like oil or melted jelly, or firm and tremulous like size, or clear and thin like water, or contain- ing lumps of coagulated albumen, exactly like the yolk or white of eggs, or both. Some of these secretions, which might be fluid during life, must be found coagulated after death, and therefore such a tumour when cut will be found more solid than when the patient was alive. Coagulated blood may also be found in the cysts. The internal surface of the cyst never, so far as I have seen, ulcerates; but in one, and only one instance, I have found a very large cyst in the ovarium, studded over with numerous large papillae, like those in the gravid uterus of a cow. The skin over one particular part of the enlarging tumour may inflame, and give way by slouch and suppuration; then the tumour protrudes somewhat, and assumes an appearance of fungus. But this is very rare, and generally the patient dies from irritation, or what has been called cachexia, before any exposure of the tumour takes place. When the testicle is affected, hydrocele is a very frequent com- bination. The lymphatic glands of the groin are rarely affected. No lemedy is of the smallest avail in this disease wherever it is situated. Particular symptoms, or adventitious attend- ants may, no doubt, to a certain extent, be palliated; but we have no more power of procuring the removal or absorption of the diseased structure, than we have of getting rid of the oigan itself in which it is seated. Iodine, mercury, and various other means, have been proposed, but they only pass the time, and benefit the apothecary. When the disease is seated in a part which admits of extirpation, this is the only remedy, and the sooner it is resorted to the better; when it is not, we may palliate by tapping the largest cyst. „ SECTION EIGHTH. I he next tumour to be noticed affects indiscriminately all ages, and perhaps I might say every texture. It is, however,