28 itself, for inflammation is not always in every respect the same. Inflammation with much is, ceteris paribus, more dangerous than with little pain, and where pain is a prominent symptom, the progress is rapid. Perhaps many cases of supposed cramp in the stomach, are essentially gastritis: in other parts pain is often the earliest and most prominent symptom, so that the disease passes for spasmodic. The pain then gradually abates, but afterwards the true nature of the disease is evinced by abscess. This is particularly the case in inflammation of the cellular substance lying between the pelvic or abdominal muscles and the peritonaeum. Some parts, till inflammation have made great progress, evince little sensation, not being in a natural state sensible to some stimuli which act readily on other parts. A paralytic part may inflame without sensa- tion. Function may be also much more affected than sensa- tion, particularly in certain structures, as for instance mucous membranes. Redness is not essential to inflammation, for those textures which have only serous vessels, may have these more enlarged, and altered, without containing red blood. Thus, in the lucid cornea a certain degree of inflammation productive of cloudiness rather than of redness, unless the conjunc- tiva be also inflamed. It may be denied that this is a state of actual inflammation, but it is attended with the other symptoms, and followed by the usual conse- quences, and often accompanied with more acute inflamma- tion in the neighbourhood, marked by redness. If we inject solution of salt under the skin of a frog’s leg, a beautiful arborescence of vessels is produced, with interstices which are not altered in colour; or if we inflame the foot, the whole of the web, although exposed alike to the influence of the cause, is not red, even when viewed with the microscope, and yet it would be unwarrantable to say, that the spots or portions which intervened between the red vessels, or formed the area of the meshes, were not inflamed, for they even, in many cases, mortify. Thei’e is, however, this difference between the two cases, that in the first, the cornea taken as a whole, is scarcely, if at all red, whilst in the second a meshwork of red