/ 123 vein of a frog’s thigh, we sometimes produce no decided effect on the web, but in other cases render the capillary veins there very turgid, and soon the capillary arteries participate, but no inflammation necessarily takes place. I have known the animal die after the operation, but not from sloughing or disease of the web. Again, the exciting causes of inflamma- tion are of such a nature as directly excite, or materially alter the action of the part, and in many cases do operate more quickly than we could suppose compatible with the produc- tion of debility. We see this in the case of irritation of the eye, and the application of hot water to the skin. We also find, that even during the continued action of the stimulant, a blister for instance, and which seems still to be excitino- and not O wearing out the part, the capillary circulation not only goes on, and the heat is evolved, but a copious secretion of serum under the cuticle is produced. We also must avoid confound- ing the direct action of some stimulantsion the vessels, with the necessary consequences of inflammation. Strong hartshorn at once stops the circulation, and so will a hot iron ; but this is so evidently independent of inflammation, that if other exciting causes of inflammation did not appear more or less rapidly to stop the motion also, no stress could be laid on the experiment. Ihese, and many ocher circumstances would lead us to demur as to the doctrine of capillary debility, and perfect stagnation of the blood; and if we proceed to experiment, we shall be still farther inclined to dispute the theory. If we apply the fino-er to the skin when affected with erysipelas, or the mucous mem- brane ol the mouth when the cheek is inflamed, we press out the blood easily from the part, and on removing the finger the surface is pale, or of its natural colour; but in an instant the blood flows, not only from the circumference of the spot, but up from the subjacent parts, and the vessels are again filled. They are filled from the other capillaries in a moment, which could not be if these capillaries had lost their power of pro- pelling blood. If we press a piece of intestine, beginning to be inflamed, between the fingers and thumb, we empty the vessels, but they immediately fill again. If, however, we wait till inflammation have become perfect and high, I admit we »