mg to the extent and complication of the injury. As in the case of cold, so here also, mortification may follow directly from the loss of circulation or pabulum; the part dies with- out any previous excitation. But in most cases, inflammation is the great source of danger, where the part is not absolutely destroyed by the mechanical destruction itself; and the reason why this inflammation is so dangerous is, that the parts, acted on and inflamed, are very much in the debilitated condition of those which are frostbit. They are exposed to a formidable cause of disease, whilst they are by their situation rendered less able to sustain it. The principles, therefore, both theo- retical and practical, seem very plain. But this, so far from being a simple, forms a very complicated subject of consider- ation, and involves, not merely the state of the part itself, but the condition of the system, whether produced directly by the accident, or, subsequently, by the state of the part. We may, in the first place, take it for granted that the part is reduced at once to a state of weakness, and in that state sub- jected to the operation of powerful causes of inflammation. In this view, it comes simply to be a question, whether the part can or cannot, without destruction, stand any increased degree of action. But there are other conditions, besides the mere power of the part, which come into operation. For instance, the accident may have been of such a nature as to produce what may be called a shock to the system, and in which the part must of necessity participate. This, practically, whether produced by actual concussion, by sudden and severe pain, or by electric matter, consists in a state of universal debility, and therefore, in one respect, the patient, although he may have lost no blood, is reduced to a worse state than if he had sus- tained a severe haemorrhage, inasmuch as the nervous system is more particularly exhausted. Many never recover from this stage of debility, others who survive this, but from the nature of the accident, must have inflammation of the part more directly injured, are subjected to that inflammation under the most unfavourable circumstances. The treatment of this state of the system is very simple in its principle, but somewhat delicate in the application of that principle. We