. 457 sation is rendered generally more distinct. It we press on it above the tumour, the pulsation diminishes, or is lost, and the tumour becomes rather softer or more flaccid, and yields a little more to compression with the hand, but on taking oft the pressure from the arterial trunk, the tension and firmness return; the tumour, if it had been at all diminished, becomes again tight, and the pulsation strong. If we press more moderately on the artery above, so as only to lessen the force of the circulation, we sometimes exchange the pulsation in the tumour, for a thrilling or vibration somewhat similar to that ol aneurismal varix. Now, if a tumour appear to pulsate from being situated on an artery, the case is very different. It is alto- gether moved or raised at each beat of the artery. There is no pulsation from an internal cause, no expansion laterally; there is a mere elevation by a cause acting against its opposite surface. If we pull the tumour forward, or move it so as to prevent the impulse of the artery on it, the pulsation instantly ceases. This is well seen in swelled glands in the neck, ox- lateral enlai-gement of one of the lobes of the thyroid gland. The pulsation often is strong and visible; but pull the tumour away from the cax*otid artery, and it ceases instantly. But change the view, and take an encysted tumour, or a chronic suppui-ation of a gland, and whilst the tumour, be it lai-ge or be it small, is i-aised by the artery below it, may not the stroke of the artery, impinging on the fluid contents of the tumoui', produce at the sides, and every where, an oscillation, apt to be mistaken for pulsation within the tumour itself? Doubtless this is the case, but by attention we may generally avoid mis- takes. When such tumours appear to pulsate from within, or expand, or pulsate laterally, they must be filled with fluid, and, therefore, must fluctuate more or less, and are more ox- less elastic. Now, were the tumour aneurismal with such a character, it is evident, that from the fluidity of the blood, it must be compressible, at least to a considerable degx-ee, and might be rendered both smaller and more flaccid, even if situ- ated in a place where the trunk could not be acted on. The encysted tumour, on the other hand, is incompressible. In such a state, the aneurism must pulsate strongly in every