5 02 wounds which are painful, or likely to inflame, extensive wounds, or smaller wounds of parts more delicate, if attended with much pain, have a dangerous effect on the constitution, which, in its turn, reacts on the wound; we should, therefore remove pain as soon as we can; great pain exhausts the system, and if the pained part be very important, or very extensive, and especially if the pain have been suddenly pro- duced by a violent cause, the sensorium may be so affected as to cause stupor, and the high sensibility may end in want of percep- tion. In such circumstances, we may endeavour to produce a salutary effect on the origins of the nerves by blisters applied over them, or act on them through the medium of the bowels. Great sensibility, or excessive pain attendant on an injury, has, as we have seen, two effects. First, it exhausts both the system and the part; and, secondly, it acts as an exciting cause of inflammation, a disease apt enough to take place from the injury itself. A highly sensible and painful state may produce a resemblance to inflammation, and yet the condition may not be actually inflammatory, but it is apt soon to end in this. It may accelerate the circulation, and affect the blood, render- ing it buffy. Pain of deep parts, not at first inflammatory, may produce heat and redness of the superjacent skin, with or without tenderness. It may, on the other hand, be attended with a sensation of cold. There are three means of relief, first, removing the state productive of pain, that is, the exciting cause; for example, by reducing a dislocation, removing a particle of sand from the eye, or foreign substances from a wound, closing it at the same time accurately, and placing the member in such a position as shall remove tension, and keep it easy. Second, lessening the sensibility and perceptibility by a full dose of opium. A third, but more slow mode, founded on the principle noticed in the second way in which sympathy might be increased, is to diminish susceptibility and sensibility, without stupefaction, by removing such causes as may be rendering the system preternaturally sensible, and are placing it in a condition liable to be acted on, or exasperated, by the most trifling causes. Of this kind are a certain degree of fever, the action of external heat, a loaded state of the