culiarity of action depending on that diathesis. W e have therefore a distinction, into scrofulous constitution and scro- fulous disease. A scrofulous system is generally marked by a fine skin, fair complexion, light blue eyes, with opaque sclerotica, and frequently a carnation hue of the cheek. At other times, especially in those who belong to what has been called the melancholy temperament, the complexion is darker, the skin coarser, the look unhealthy, or at least the face is devoid of all the rosiness of health. It is sometimes tumid, and still more frequently the upper lip is swollen. It is too limited to confine our notions to tumour, or inflammation with any of its consequences; for there is scarcely any action, even typhus fever itself, as I have long ago remarked, which is not affected by it. But, on the other hand, to consider all the ailments or actions controlled or modified by this diathesis, would lead into a range inclusive of nearly a whole system of diseases. The origin of scrofula is altogether obscui’e ; if we look to it in the form of diathesis, we say scrofulous people are a distinct race, possessing a peculiar constitution. But in what does this consist, or how is it produced? That it is heredi- tary, is too well established to be disputed; and were this the only question, we could easily dispose of it. But how came this hereditary disposition to be acquired by those who first communicated it to the family ? We must conclude either that this is some modification by accidental causes of the healthy constitution, and therefore capable, when such causes do operate under powerful circumstances, of being produced in any one, or that some previous change of circumstances, as yet unknown, is requisite to enable such causes to produce the diathesis. That some have already acquired so strong a diathesis, as, for at least many generations, notwithstanding intermarriages, to communicate it to their offspring in a degree so powerful as to produce marked effects, is a fact. It is equally so, that by intermarriages, or the operation of obscure causes in individual children, or even in one or more generations, the diathesis may be so weakened as to exhibit no marked or decided effect. It is farther, I think, estab-