39S haemorrhage, and the confusion of mind which may attend it. These states of the vessels are peculiarly apt to produce important effects at the base of the cranium, and on the origin of the eighth pair of nerves which go to the stomach. In an erect posture, there is not only less arterial blood sent to the brain, a greater effort being necessary to propel it, but also, as there can be no vacuum, there must be a proportionate accumulation of venous blood, especially about the base of the skull and spinal cord. Hence we have sickness or vomiting produced, and confusion of sight, or blindness, and tinnitus aurium, with palpitation and syncope. Some, then, of the primary effects of haemorrhage are referable to the mere loss of blood, and others to the additional cause ol the unequal distribution of blood, and the consequence of this to the parts affected. If much blood have been lost, and yet the patient survive, one of the plainest effects must be the necessary contraction of the vascular, but particularly of the arterial system, and this is just as certainly a source of excitation as an incieased distention would have been. Viewing the consequences, then, merely as confined to the organs of circulation, we should expect a state of excitation to be speedily produced. But the consequences are not restricted to the vascidai system, for this cannot be affected for any length of time, or to any considerable degree, without acting on the nervous or sentient system, and this comes next to be excited, and the mutual action of the one on the other produces an increased effect, and, as a secondary consequence, sensibility comes to be increased. We have thus frequency of pulse,, irregular action of the heart, heat of the skin, pain or throbbing in the head, &c.; and thus it happens, that we may actually bleed a person into’ a state of fever. But besides these regular remote or secondary effects of haemorrhage, we may have, from the state induced in the brain and medulla spinalis, effects produced on distant parts supplied by nerves coming off from the por- tions of these chiefly influenced. The previous state of parti- cular organs, predisposition, peculiarity of sympathy, the action of local excitement, and many other circumstances,