tying the femoral artery in men, namely, that the circulation is brisker in the extreme vessels immediately after the opera- tion, than it is at a period some hours later, at least, in those cases where the part is to sink. If we tie the femoral vein, the circulation in the web is, for a moment, rather excited, and then ceases. Presently it begins slowly in the arteries, one after another beginning to exhibit motion. Then the blood is seen to move slowly but distinctly. Besides other effects, in the human subject, we find that inflammation is apt to take place in the tract of the artery toward the heart, and suppuration may form with very little pain or local indication, but merely with fever and sinking. If the carotid artery be tied in a healthy state, as, for instance, for the purpose of influencing a tumour, &c. farther up, the patient may die within a few days, and, on inspection, pus is found in the mediastinum. It may be apprehended, that in this case the mischief had in part arisen from the implication of the twigs of the sympa- thetic nerve, and I am not willing to disregard this. But in arteries which have no ganglionic nerves, the same may happen. For instance, if the artery at the groin be tied, sup- puration may take place within the pelvis, the vessel then becomes involved in the disease, and secondary hasmorrhage proves, if not the immediate cause of death, at least a certain prevention of recovery. Either the artery or the vein, or both, may suppurate and open. In some cases the vessel gives way above, in some below the ligature, or the part where it had been applied, if it have come away, or sometimes at the exact line of the application. It is always a suspicious cir- cumstance if any sinus remain after the ligature have come away, and particularly if the orifice of that be protuberant, like the fungous opening leading to a carious bone. It will be found that there is a deposition of gelatinous looking sub- stance over the vessels, and in the cellular substance, more resembling coagulated albumen than fibrin, and the fungus at the orifice is not organized, but is a similar substance imbued with blood. The constitutional effects of tying an artery are not always the same. Sometimes the first symptoms are coldness and