108 otliei and, therefore, whilst I bring forward the principle, I must admit the obscurity often of the condition, and the co-operation in many cases of predisposition in the organ itself- In this view, we can understand why venesection can cine an inflammation not to be removed by the most copious evacuation from the neighbourhood of the part itself. Third, Inflammation may be produced by the intervention of the sympathy of equilibrium. This is one way in which cold acts, when applied to the surface of the fauces, chest, &e. It diminishes the action of the skill, and increases in a pro- portionate degree that of the parts within, and thus lias the same effect as if a direct stimulus were applied to them. But we can seldom in the living system safely calculate on a simple effect, and in the present case, must therefore attend to other circumstances. Whilst it may thus, in many instances, act on the part directly below, we must not be guided merely by theoretical speculations, but must attend to another effect, namely, that of smart sensation produced on the surface, and which may, on the principle so often alluded to, act on the extremities of deeper nerves, through the medium of their origins; and once for all I state, that there is nothing to pre- vent both modes operating conjunctly, and the connected force may produce a result which neither separately could do. Now, when speaking of cold as an exciting cause of inflam- mation, I must remark, that it may operate on a very distant part, by means of the sympathy which I have explained. Thus, cold and damp applied to the feet may produce spasm, or even inflammation of the bowels, or sore throat, or bronchitis, according to the predisposition and condition of particular parts. Fourth, Inflammation may be excited by communication of action. If a part have its power diminished, its action ought to be lessened or moderated in the same degree; as there must, for the due performance of the action, always be a proportion of that to the power. Let us, for example, take a healthy finger, and call its action and its power both equal to twenty. If by cold or any other cause we sink the power or vitality of this to five, it can as yet only be said to be weakened, but not diseased, provided the action