too the vascular system. In other words, it tranquillises the frame, and is also a mean of checking vomiting, or depress- ing nausea, when these exist. The tincture should first be given in a little brandy, as it acts more quickly than solid opium, but the latter must afterwards be given, if the tinc- ture be vomited; opium is always safe if there be no idio- syncrasy, but cordials must not be pushed farther than necessary, because they subsequently increase the febrile state which may take place. They also ought, if possible, to be avoided till the opened vessels be secured. Other measures also ought to be resorted to. The heat is to be preserved by warm coverings or heated applications made to the pit ol the stomach, back, and extremities, Bvery effort on the pait of the patient is to be avoided, and a recumbent posture strictly observed, if the nature of the wound do not render respiration difficult in that position. This treatment proceeds on the twofold object ol avoiding farther exhaustion, and ol substituting other stimuli for the more natural one which has been lost. But a third and very important object presents itself, namely, to replenish the vessels. We cannot, however, do this rapidly; we cannot throw so much liquid, warm water itself, into the stomach, as if absorbed, would speedily fill the vascular system with watery blood. Still we do noi lose sight of the object, and give at frequent intervals, if there be no contra-indication, such quantities of soup or animal jelly, or arrow-root, 8cc. as can be retained and digested ; and when the stomach can well retain what it receives, we allow the patient to quench his thirst freely with toast-water, lemonade, or plain water, knowing that thereby the vessels shall at least be better distended, and that in proportion to the absorption. This being an object, it may be asked whe- ther we should not rather open a vein, and inject into it the blood of another person, or even a little tepid water. llie proposals are feasible, and the first has oltener than once been done, but as yet we have too little experience to enable us to decide whether it can be greatly relied on, or may ever do harm; assuredly, when the limmorrhage has been great and the danger is urgent, it cannot add to the hazard, whilst