i 129 both cases confound the effect with the cause, just as if we called poverty by the name of improvidence. They are alto- gether new and distinct actions essentially different from inflammation, but capable of being excited by it. Capable also, I believe, perhaps, of being produced without it. SECTION TENTH. The treatment of inflammation must consist in the appli- cation of those means which restore the natural action of the part. But the student will ask bow this is to be done; and when he consults authors, he shall find indications laid down in a phraseology accordant with their theories. One sajs attenuate the blood, another, relax spasm, or remove obstruction, or excite the vessels to contract, or lessen their excitement. I will make two remarks in the outset, which may be of service to him. The first is, that inflammation is not a simple exaltation of excitement, or a mere increase of action by the agency of a stimulus, otherwise no case ought to resist the lancet; and if there be any truth in the Brown- ' oman reveries, no inflammation left to itself, or to an old woman and water gruel, ought to prove fatal; for indirect debility ought in due time to bring down the excitement to par, and if it sunk below that, it was no fault of the inflam- mation. It were little better than fighting a phantom to argue on this point; but there are more fantasies than one to contend with, if we admit inflammation to be a simple process, depend- ant on any alteration whatever in mere degree of action. It is an entire change of action, a new state formerly unknown to the system, and, as yet, obscure to those who profess to be tutors and rectifiers of the system. We know this much, that it may be excited by whatever can excite the action of a part much beyond the natural degree; but we also know that it is not merely a high performance of the natural and healthy action. We also know that it can be produced directly 01 indirectly, even by causes which seem to consist in the subduction of natural stimuli. We have every reason to believe, that it is so far unconnected with excess or defi- ciency of direct excitement, as to consist in a state entirely K