by a remedy which could induce an opposite condition. But inflammation is not a simple process, nor an elevation or depression of action. It is a new state altogether, yet a state blended and connected in its acute stage with that of increased action, only to be removed by lessening action in one and in every part of the inflamed organ. Of the peculiar nature of the action we know little, and I fear have, in the present state of science, no prospect of knowing more. To call it a peculiar and new action, originating from an excitation of the natural one, but, when perfected, consisting in one quite distinct from it, distinct in its performance or phenomena, distinct as viewed in relation to the general action of the system, and distinct in the organization to which it leads, and with which it is con- nected; to call it thus, or to exclude it from the action of health by a still stricter line of demarcation, would be indeed to give but a poor description of the condition of inflamma- tion, and its proximate cause. But I cannot go, and I know not any who has gone farther, than merely to say that it is an action altogether new, in a part where organization is soon made altogether new, and that this action, in its acute and exquisite form, is greater than in the natural proportion to the power of the part; but the disproportion varies much in degiee in different cases. And farther, it is evident that the action may remain long in a higher or lower degree, and yet not go beyond the power of the part, so that inflammatory action in the abstract cannot be defined to be necessarily an acute and short-lived process, for it may exist without any essential change beyond that early effected, for many weeks, if not for mondis. Without proceeding to inquire into the different theories of inflammation, from the ancients downward, which I have in former dissertations discussed, and which may partly be found copied into Mr. Cooper’s very useful Dictionary, I con- clude this section by noticing a speculation, which has become rather popular since the time of Dr. Cullen and Mr. Hunter. It has long been said that this process was the production of the vis medicatrix nature, and more lately the language has een a little changed, but the idea preserved that it is the