10S peculiar elastic texture. It would rather appear, however, to be of a compound nature, made up partly of elastic and partly of muscular fibre; the proportion of the former pre- dominating in the trunks and larger branches, that of the latter in the smaller ones. Dr. Thomson has examined the composition of artery, and, like Berzelius, says it is destitute of fibrin, and resembles entirely, in its characters, the liga- mentum nuchae, but it is not yet proved that muscular con- traction is a property exclusively belonging to fibrin. The third coat, the one immediately exterior to this peculiar tex- ture, is described as being altogether cellular. It is dense, filamentous, and not laminated, and seems so firm and com- pact that, by some, it has been thought membranous, by others tendinous, by others entirely cellular, without fat. It is the cellular, the tendinous, or the vascular coat of different writers, and some even include with it the sheath or cellular attachment to other parts, and divide it therefore into three layers. Lobstein considers it, on the other hand, as almost entirely composed of nervous fibrili, running in a longitu- dinal direction. A microscope, says he, magnifying sixty times, demonstrates the “tela cellulosa” enveloping the lingual, external maxillary, and other arteries, “ Nil erit nisi rete nervosum.” Bichat notices the resemblance of the plexus of nerves to a real theca, but says it is grayish, whilst the cellular coat is whiter. It is, he thinks, deficient in the arteries of the extremities, and only distinct on those supplied from ganglions. The vasa vasorum run in the cellular coat, but do not in health penetrate to the inner membrane, at least cannot be injected; but in disease we find this membrane red, owing to the vessels being seen through it. The cellular coat is so strong that a force which lacerates those below it, does not mechanically injure it. It is somewhat elastic, and is con- sidered as affording the chief strength to the artery, in a longitudinal direction. The fibres of the inner surface of this are firm, connected, and strong, but the outer surface is looser, and adheres laxly to that cellular kind of sheath which serves as an intermedium of connexion between the neighbouring parts and the proper coat of the artery. This