1 <25 ever, is no proot that debility is the proximate cause of inflam- mation, or even that debility of the capillaries actually exists. A great error, I apprehend, has been committed in assigning too much to the arteries, and too little to the nerves. Let us attend to the exciting causes, and the phenomena of inflamma- tion, and we must come to the conclusion that the action is both increased and altered, and the chief agents in these changes aie the neives, the arteries performing a secondary part. A faither mistake has been made by confounding increased action, with increased contraction of the arteries. Stimulants 01 excitation, it is said, should make the artery contract, and, therefore, in increased action, we should have the vessel less capable of admitting blood, for the tube is smaller. Now, this is a fallacy arising from confounding two different states. I have stated the appearance on applying ice, &c. which con- tract the vessels, and make the fluid pale, and the globules few. But saline solutions, heat, &c. have not this effect, for the vessels dilate, and receive more globules, and the circula- tion is at this time rapid. Increased action may manifest itself m different ways, according to the peculiarity of the increase. Dilatation may be an effect of increased action. Do not the capillaries dilate in blushing, or by the applica- tion of heat, and yet who will say that they are debilitated ? Do not the capillaries of the mucous follicles enlarge in the act of secretion, and who will say they are then weakened ? The point then to be laid hold of by the advocates for debility, must be the slow motion of the blood; but slow motion is no proof of diminished action. It is even not proved that in any one instance of increased action, be it of a gland or any other oigan, is the capillary circulation increased in rapidity, and not rather retarded. Viewing the nerves as the chief agents, and the more immediate seat of inflammation, and producing the various changes in the texture, in the condition of the vessels, and of the blood, I can see no necessary connexion etween increased action of an inflamed part, and increased lapidity of circulation. I have already said that the part is a new organ, and it has its own laws, and appears to have its own mode of circulation ; but that mode is no proof of debility