85 ance outwardly; but if the external surface be affected, the parts around participate, and the skin ultimately inflames. The inflammation may end in resolution ; in which case, the pain abates, and any swelling which had existed slowly sub- sides, or it may end in suppuration, called caries by some, without apparent death of any distinct portion. This also may follow death and exfoliation. Necrosis is the most fre- quent termination ; but the layer may be very thin which is destroyed. Inflammation of the periosteum or medullary membrane, with death of the osseous texture, is very common, whilst that degree of inflammation which merely changes without killing the osseous texture, is rare. We meet indeed with man}' cases of caries or inflammation, verging toward that state, with softening of the portion of bone; but these cases are generally preceded by exfoliation of part of the bone. In the various experiments which were instituted for the purpose of ascertaining the effect of inflammation on different stiuctuies, as well as in those made to illustrate the general natuie of inflammation, I have been accurately and carefully assisted by my son Mr. Allan Burns. I disapprove as much as any one of cruel experiments wantonly instituted for the gratification of mere curiosity. But I should blush for the man who demanded an apology for investigations which can in any degree tend to alleviate the pain, or preserve the life of an intellectual being. SECTION FOURTH. An important question next arises. Is there one general and definite action peculiar to inflammation, and admitting only of modifications from the nature of the part affected, and the circumstances in which it is placed; or are there different species of the disease essentially distinct in their nature, and necessarily contrary in their termination ? To determine this question we must learn whether the various textures when subjected to inflammation do ever exhibit, with any regularity, different and opposite phenomena, according to the character of the cause. One distinction is into phleg-