3M< to the nature of the organ which it occupies. This kind of tumour may form in a small gland as a nisus, and in that case the covering of the gland enlarging, the tumour appears to have a capsule; but when it forms in the subcutaneous cellular substance, there is no distinct capsule, although from the thickening of the substance around it, there is sometimes an indistinct resemblance of one. These tumours are never painful till they inflam# unless by their weight or pressure on nerves, or some important part. They are generally smooth on the surface, and ol a round or ovoid shape, firm and compact to the feel, but with- out the induration of scirrhus or the elasticity of spongoid tumour. When cut into, this tumour appears very much like dense cellular substance. It has not the cartilaginous appearance, and membranous septa of cancer, the brainular appearance of spongoid, nor the glandular look of some othei tumours. It is more vascular than the yellow fibrinous tumour, on which account it has been called vascular saicoma. Tlhe cutaneous veins may become varicose. It is not painful 01 tender, and when it does inflame, the skin covering it becomes to a greater or less extent destroyed; but neither it nor the tumour have any tendency to fungous ulceration. The tumour itself is not very susceptible of the suppurative, and stdl less of the ulcerative action, but is more apt to slough. Small tumours may thus be completely destroyed, but larger ones only slough partially: the dead portion is long of being thrown off,"the discharge is highly offensive, and there is often so much constitutional injury or irritation, as to call for extirpation. This I have found particularly the case in the breasts of old women, where the slough, of an ash colour, and intolerable smell, lies almost covered by the collapsed skin. In other cases the slouching gland may excite to disease in the bed in which it lies, and cause universal injury in the breast. Where the testicle is affected in this manner, only a very partial slough takes place. When this kind of tumour is exposed by the skin inflaming and giving way, we find, that if it do not slough, it becomes smooth, and yields a sero-purulent fluid. Next to the unorganized deposition of fibrin noticed in the