300 sometimes they are paler, lhe surrounding skin is covered with branny scurf. This sore does not spread very rapidly, nevertheless it makes a steady progress in the skin-and cellu- lar substance, but does not go deep so as to form excavations. The lymphatic glands rarely become affected, and it is long before the general health becomes so impaired as to cause death. Indeed, in a great many instances, that seems to be produced rather by the sore spreading to important parts, than by its direct influence on the constitution. When it appears, as it generally does, at the inner canthus of the eye, it is long confined to that, and the eyelids; it extends slowly to the eyeball, the cornea becomes opaque, but may be long of excoriating; the sore creeps along the eyeball into the orbit, so as to make a kind of dissection of the eye ; excru- ciating pain in the head is soon produced by affection of the nerves of the orbit. The brain next suffers, and the patient dies comatose. Females are chiefly affected with this disease, but males are also liable to it in the cheek and side of the nose. This disease is only to be got the better of by extirpating it. Warts and distinct tumours should be removed com- pletely by the knife, or by passing a needle quite below their base, in sound substance, and applying a ligature under this, so as to act on healthy skin and throw off all the diseased part. Should a sore, in place of adhesion, unfortunately fol- low the operation, or the ligature, we must destroy it in the way to be immediately mentioned. In the superficial, or furfuraceous form of the disease, at no stage, nor in any form, where a sore of considerable extent has already taken place, would I recommend an attempt at extirpation by the knife, but rather the application of caustic. Various appli- cations of this nature have been proposed, such as strong solutions of muriate of mercury, or of nitrate of silver, or the sore has been touched with the alkaline caustic, or strong nitric acid, or sprinkled with arsenical composi- tions. In the small and superficial sore occurring at the nose, or in the angle of the eye, nothing that I have ever tried has disappointed me so seldom as the application re-