477 permit of an operation, the proposal may be urged with more force than in external aneurism. Whilst I admit that there are instances of true aneurism which appear to have been cured by this mode, I am also compelled to say, that it is very far indeed from being worthy of dependance. I make no account of its supposed utility in cases of mere dilatation, for these, if not exasperated and excited by imprudence, may be kept at bay, or at most require only a moderate regimen. A very small proportion of actual aneurisms have been cured in this way. Some have been diminished, and a few have been cured. It is easy to bring forward fourteen or twenty cases of reputed cures; but, taking these as indisputable and well authenticated, what are they to the total number ? and I would ask any one practitioner, how many instances in his own practice he could say had been cured ? I believe the general answer would be, that whilst this contra-stimulant plan, carried to a reasonable extent, seemed in several in- stances, to prolong life, and formed a striking contrast to the result of excitement, whether produced by bodily exertion, mental anxiety, or intemperance of any description, yet scarcely one had been cured. Without meaning to depre- ciate the system of depletion, I would wish to remind the surgeon, that a state of excitement may actually be produced by venesection. This I have already explained, and although it may be said, that as the force of the circulation must be impaired, and the quantity of fluid in the vessels diminished, such an excitation can have no bad effect, yet this is by no means proved. It accords with reason, that such a state of the vascular system, as I have represented, should be capable of acting injuriously on the aneurism. It is not supposed to be able to contract to the same degree with healthy arterial tubes, and a gorging of the sac, or accumulation of the blood there, should take place, and that to such an extent as, in some instances, to produce sudden death. We ought, there- fore, never to push our evacuations so far as to call for great and rapid contraction of the arterial system. Even abstinence may be hurtful. In general, it produces a feeble, and perhaps soft pulse; but it may also, if pushed far, from its local effect