lory fever to be a general inflammatory action, without any peculiar affection of one organ, and to carry on its attack to the ultimate exhaustion and extinction of the vital principle, we should say that mortification is precisely the same thing in a concentrated degree. So far as we have gone, we have merely viewed mortification as the death of an inflamed part; but we must extend our view and remember, that as a part sympa- thizes with the system, so the system sympathizes with a part. There may indeed be actions in a part, so transitory, although severe, or so slight, that the system is scarcely if at all influenced by them; but waving all speculative considerations, I lay it down as a practical and incontrovertible rule, that when once the system does sympathize with the diseased or unhealthy action of any part, it continues to be influenced by every change and modification which takes place in that part; it is bound as if by a spell, to the destiny of that part; as the part leads it must follow; and it is only by the influence of superior power that it is prevented from being dragged in every instance to the same degree of destruction. In the inflammatory stage, the system is in a state of simple inflam- matory excitement. As the part sinks in its power, and appi'oaches towards a state of death, so does the body, but not every where in an equal degree. The sinking or depressed condition is most intense in the part dying, but not yet dead; less so in the part adjoining, and still less so as we recede. The effect produced on the system, depends on the sympathy excited by the existing inflammation. A part may be killed without inflammation, or without such inflammation as affects the system, and no constitutional injury shall be sustained. This we see in eschars produced by the application of caustic. But in cases where previous inflammation has produced con- stitutional disorder, or fever, we invariably find that the slightest change in the local condition influences the consti- tution, but influences it not in an equal, but in a decreasing ratio, as we recede from the part. What the state of the part is, so long as it is at all alive, such is the condition essentially, but not to the same degree, of the system at large. With a dead or sphacelated part, the system can hold no