442 notice relating to the mode of applying the ligature, is the proposal, when the trunk of an artery is tied, as in the case of an aneurism, to use two ligatures, one a little distant from the other, and then divide the vessel between them. This is supposed to allow the artery to retract, and bury itself in the neighbouring parts, and also to prevent the artery from being kept on the stretch. This last advantage may be gained by placing the limb in such a position as to relax the vessel, and if we have been careful to detach no more of the trunk than is merely sufficient to permit the introduction of the instrument that is to convey the ligature around, we need care little about the benefit of retraction. But where a con- siderable portion of the trunk has been from any cause insu- lated, this advice may be with propriety followed, one liga- ture being carried as high, and the other as low as possible. There are situations where it would be difficult intentionally to apply the double ligature, and divide the artery; for instance, in the subclavian artei'y. The time required for the detachment of the ligature, varies according to the size of the artery and of the ligature, the tightness with which the ligature is drawn, and the natuie of the parts included with the artery, for it is longer of com- ing away, if any portion of fascia, or even of muscular fibre, or dense cellular, or membranous, substance be included, than if the artery alone be cleanly tied. The state of the part itself, and of the constitution, may also have an influence. Some ligatures come away on the third day, otheis not for three weeks or a month. If the vessel be of small size, and no adjoining substance be included, and the ligature be properly applied, it should be detached in a week; if the vessel be large, it may remain for ten or twelve days. But, as in many cases, notwithstanding every attention, a little sur- rounding substance may be included, and the ligature may remain, even in a well performed operation, longer. Some consider that arterial branches should part with their ligatures on the fifth day, whilst large trunks were entitled to retain them till the ninth, but there is much uncertainty. About the period when they are expected to be detached, we, at every