519 panied, and very often preceded by lock-jaw, or trismus, de- rived from the word signifying to gnash. ietanus is farther divided, and with propriety, into acute and chronic; for the latter is more tractable than the former. It may come on rapidly, indeed, almost immediately after an injury very ' slight, and prove fatal in less than half an hour. But this is rare, for it is usually some hours, or even a day or two aftei the infliction of the injury, before it begins. It is often a week. But there are few, if any, instances of its attacking after the completion of the third week. The acute form proves fatal often on the second day, and seldom continues beyond the eighth. The chronic has proved fatal so late as the twen- tieth. It is most frequent in warm climates, particularly if the patient have been exposed to the cold night air. But it is met with in every part of the world, and too many instances have occurred in Britain. Boys, and adult males, aie moie liable to it than females. And the only instances of recoveiy that I have myself met with, have been amongst females. Tetanus both appears and proceeds under different circum- stances. It is sometimes preceded by restlessness, and an alteration in the appearance of the wound, which becomes unhealthy, and either florid, dry, or inflamed, or yields a serous discharge. It is also painful, particularly on exposure to the air. Or the whole limb becomes painful, more espe- cially in the course of the nerves. In other instances, the wound seems to be healing, and the cure is not suspended by the progress of the disease. In the majority of cases, how- ever, the wound is unhealthy. The proper symptoms of the disease begin by stiffness about the jaw, with some difficulty of opening and shutting the mouth, which renders chewing laborious. Next, stiffness is felt in the extensor muscles of the neck, and sometimes an impediment in the action of those of deglutition, productive of reluctance to swallowing of liquids, amounting almost to hydrophobia. Then pain, often severe, is felt at the bottom of the sternum, darting towards the spine, accompanied with a sensation as if the chest were drawn nearer to the back. This is followed speedily by rigid contraction of all the extensors of the spine, whilst the