local application may be resorted to. '1 here is, perhaps, nothing better in the early stage of the complaint, than the application of cloths wet with cold water, provided the cold be not carried the length of weakening the part. No addition to the water, no medicated lotion is more efficacious. If, how- ever, the gland do not speedily diminish under this treatment, it is unnecessary to pursue it. Nothing ought to be done until matter form, and for a considerable time thereafter. Warm poultices are apt to fret the skin, and generally do mischief. As soon as the gland seems to have fairly suppur- ated, and before the skin have become much inflamed, or very thin, it will be proper to let the matter out by a very small opening, as this tends to diminish the mark. We ought not, however, to be rash in resorting to this, but must wait till we find that the matter is increasing, and that there is no hope of its being absorbed. I am led to give this advice from having observed, that by the continued application of cold water, glands which apparently contained matter, have had that matter absorbed. Perhaps, in some cases there may have been a deception, from the gland becoming softer, whilst a firm fascia lay over it; but still there are examples sufficient to establish the fact. On the other hand, when the skin is allowed to become very thin, and of a deep purple coloui, puncturing comes to be of little service, for the thinnest paits must be absorbed. A larger sore, and a corresponding scar, must thus be produced, and the puncture is apt to leceive the blame. I am disposed, then, when the unremitting progress of the disease shows that the abscess must burst, to recommend an early small opening, and this may be done with advantage although the skin be red, if it be also thick; but where it is very thin, and the process is going on very acutely, it is better to let it burst spontaneously; nor does this always leave a mark more perceptible than that left by the lancet. When the skin, although red, is thick, the small puncture may be closed with adhesive plaster, and when the fluid, which is at first thick, white, and curdy, reaccumulates, the puncture either opens spontaneously, or may be reopened with a probe or lancet before the contents be so great as originally, lhe