419 more than a month after the artery had been thus wounded, the injured spot was found covered with thickened cellular membrane, which, when dissected off, showed the artery to be sound, and so pervious, that it was fully injected. It was also found that oblique and transverse wounds, if they did not extend beyond one-fourth of the circumference of the artery, healed in like manner with little or no obstruction. The experiments of Beclard show, that if the wound be one-fourth of the circumference, it becomes circular, and sti’aitens a little the caliber, if one-half, eliptical, if three-fourths, the separ- ation is very great, and the caliber is considerably reduced. In all of these, if the sheath remain, a part of the lateral open- ing is covered by it, and the centre only of the arterial open- ing corresponds to that of the sheath, so that the actual aperture through which blood can flow externally, is from this want of correspondence, less than that made in the artery. The haemorrhage is stopped by a coagulum formed between the sheath and the artery, and kept firm by the sheath. This becomes gradually firmer and whiter, and by the time it is absorbed, a cicatrix is formed. This takes place with more or less certainty according to the extent of the wound, for if three-fourths, even one-half, of the circumference be divided, if the animal survive the haemorrhage, obliteration is apt to take place. Dr. Jones seems to refer this to the tendency to retract, which either tears the undivided part, or causes its destruction by irritation. All agree, that in dogs and horses it is very difficult to produce aneurism; they either die, or recover completely. From my own observation on the horse, - I would say, that an wound of the femoral artery was mortal. In the human subject, we have numerous instances of a natural cure of a wounded artery. But I once more repeat, that this cure is effected, in almost every instance, by obliteration of the vessels, and not by adhesion of the edges of the wound. One of the most remarkable instances, perhaps of recovery, from an wound of a large artery, is that related by Van Swieten, where a knife was struck into the axillary artery. When I call it one of the most remarkable, I allude to the severity of the symptoms; for the man was actually laid out as dead.