61 they pass, are not inflamed. The cartilages about the glottis sometimes suffer or die, but this seems to be in a secondary way. Another circumstance to be noticed is, that the inflammation often seizes on different parts of the membrane, the interme- diate portion being sound. We may have the larynx inflamed, the trunk of the trachea sound, and its ramifications below the bifurcation intensely red; or the larynx may be sound, and only the trunk of the trachea inflamed; or in fatal croup, the redness may be greater as we proceed to the lungs, whilst the upper part is only opaque and dull, which indicates the existence of inflammation ; for I have already stated, that the membrane may be inflamed with very trifling- redness, and that soon lost. -The urethra is another mucous organ where we often find inflammation produced in one part after another, with inter- vening portions sound ; and nothing is more common than to find, first, the extz’emity of the urethra inflamed, then the membranous part, then the vas deferens, or epididymis, or testicle. I have little to add to the general history. If we open the urethra of an animal, it is seen first of its natural colour, namely, a pale blush ; then very minute spots like extravasation appear, without arborescence ; then more distinct vessels are seen, and the coat becomes thicker, or swollen and red to a greater or less degree, with patches of deeper colour, and in some instances the surface of these is abraded. The ' lacunas are highly vascular. The sensibility is greatly increased. 1 he secretion is soon augmented and changed; and although the disease be confined within narrow limits, yet a great part of the canal is brought into a state of excitation and preternatural tenderness. If the inflammation go higher, the secretion is stopped ; some blood is discharged, or fibrin is furnished. The submucous tissue in most cases swells, so that the canal is contracted, and in many cases, in those points where the inflammation was greatest, permanent stricture is the consequence. I he last illustration I mean to give is that of the mucous coat of the intestine, which is villous as well as glandular, or o icular. The villi are organs both of absorption and serous 4