27 5 rebounding or fluctuation, whereas in reality he only perceives the elasticity of the two individual spots. By pressing and gently squeezing or rubbing a portion of the swelling with his fingers, he clears the cells, takes off the distention, feels the fascia below slack, and is now sensible that no deep-seated suppuration exists. In parts more circumscribed and covered with a fascia, or contained in a capsule, we must be equally cii cumspect. When matter is deeply seated in an extremity, its formation, if dependant on acute suppuration, is always preceded by deep-seated and very considerable if not severe pain. It is attended generally by irregular shiverings, and followed by a doughy feel of the integuments, sometimes by cutaneous redness. Acute suppuration in glands bound down by a fascia, generally excites inflammation in that fascia, suc- ceeded by slight oedema of the cellular substance, with or without redness of the skin. In acute cases the disease advances so rapidly outwards there can be no doubt; it is only in the slower cases where there is a matting or confusion of the parts, as in some affections of the female breast, that there can be any hesitation. In such cases, if there should be very little feeling locally of matter, we may be sure of its presence if the patient be affected with a remittent fever. In every instance where matter is contained below a fascia, we can hard y be too prompt in letting it out. When an abscess has burst or been opened, it is generally proper, if it be of moderate size, merely to continue the application of a poul- tice. ns is generally the best defence until the hardened base and margin, commonly called the stool of the abscess be absorbed, alter which the part may be dressed with simple ointment, and gently supported with a roller. If, however the heat and moisture of the poultice be fretting the skin, <o at it either is covered with a crop of pimples, or the orifice e en arging too much, simple dressings should be imme- late y employed. In larger abscesses the poultice should ei e veiy early exchanged for a compress of soft cloth ep on wnh a roller, so as to support the parts, a bit of Ca _1S thmly spread with simple ointment beino- previous! aPP"ed t0 <»*r aPerture, o, if the poultice be clbZt