2 c styles union by die first intention ; the other, adhesion, or adhesive inflammation. In union by the first intention, the parts, he supposes, are first glued together by clotted blood ; then the red particles are absorbed, at the same time that vessels shoot into the remaining lymph. If the quantity effused, however, should be greater, the surfaces of the coa- gulurn alone become vascular, whilst the central, or interme- diate portion, is absorbed. In adhesive inflammation, on the other hand, that lymph, which, in the former case, was sup- posed to be left by the absorbents, is poured out, either by the vessels or cells, (he does not seem certain which,) and, into this, the vessels shoot, or it becomes vascular. The only difference, then, in the ultimate steps of the two processes, is, that union is effected in the one case, by blood, in the other, more directly by lymph. But both, he expressly says, are equally efficacious. In the one, however, there is neither inflammation, nor disturbance of the constitution. In the other, there is more or less of a peculiar inflammation, which, he says, may be more speedy in its operation than the first mode. Much, however, depends on the sagacity of the part; xor the lymph, we are told, becomes vascular, sooner or later, according to the apparent necessity. Bleeding is a necessary consequence of a division of the vessels, and if the surfaces be joined at all by any interme- dium, that intermedium must be blood, and can at first be nothing else. They must either be joined by that, or by nothing. But so long as blood exists between the surfaces there is no adhesion. The process may, doubtless, hereafter commence, but it has not yet done so, more than it had done at the moment when the surfaces were brought into contact, and kept so by a plaster. The intermediate layer of blood, although it may keep the surfaces together, is to be viewed as a sequence of the division, rather than as a step of reunion; as an effect, of the wound, which must necessarily appear, before the restorative process begins. Even viewed as a pre- liminary, it can only be considered as a commencing step not even so essential, as that of putting the foot into the stirrup, is to the act of riding; and we well know, that a man