patient, and even to hasten dissolution. The pain attending a cancerous sore varies both in its nature and degree; generally it is of the burning kind, and acute glowing sensations seem to dart from the part in various directions, quick like the gleam of the aurora borealis. The patient compares the pain to the effect of a burning coal; but in other cases the pain is rather teasing than extreme, and torments more by its constancy than by its severity. It has been remarked, that when the disease gets the length of an open sore, it does not make the same progress as before, in a given time, but may remain nearly stationary for months, or a year or two, though the disorder be advancing in other parts which have been con- taminated. In the course of the disease, sometimes very early, the lymphatic glands and intervening lymphatics become diseased; those in the axilla are most frequently and most readily affected, but those above the clavicle and by the side of the sternum may also swell. The size acquired is vari- able, but seldom great, a mass apparently large being not made up of one gland, but of many smaller ones matted together. When the glands are considerably or generally indu- rated, the lymphatics of the arm cannot do their duty. Either from an obstruction to the passage of the lymph through the glands, or by a propagation of inflammation downwards along the lymphatics, the arm swells, the skin and cellular substance become tense, and the surface, particularly near the shoulder, and sometimes near the breast, becomes red or pink coloured. The arm is painful; sometimes, from pressure on the nerves, powerless. Similar causes may produce swelling of the neck and face, or some way down the side. It is quite impossible to determine by external examination the size or number of the affected glands, for they are so bounded and defended by the fascia of the armpit, that when there seems only one small gland enlarged, and even that one has only been discovered after careful examination, we find, on cutting the fascia, a chain of glands, some of them by no means small, extending high in the axilla. The constitution sooner or later suffers. The face be- comes sallow, and the whole skin has a dirty bloodless hue, and sometimes, particularly in the visage, a waxy look is observable.