535 from the excitement of the nervous branches. But, if the neighbouring texture have become involved, and there be gen- eral swelling, or tension, or if the vein have become inflamed, then the leeches must be applied over the surface. The bowels are to be properly opened, and afterwards preserved in a regular state. Either cold or tepid applications are to be made to the part, according to the effect the one or other may have in giving relief. If these means fail, and we have either spasm, or a conti- nuance of intolerable pain, a free division of the injured nerve should be made, either, if its situation require, by a regular dissection, so as to expose the nerve higher than the injured spot, or in other cases, particularly of cutaneous nerves, by a free transverse incision a little higher than the spot. This division may be expected to do most good in cases where pain is the prominent symptom; but if the lower part of the extremity have become inflamed, the same benefit cannot be expected. It may even be supposed, that the division of the nerve might give a tendency to gangrene under these circum- stances. But if it have the effect of removing sensation, more advantage than hazard is likely to follow. We also expect benefit in cases where spasm, particularly of the limb, has taken place, for we destroy for a time the action of the nerve. There is, however, no certainty of our thus succeeding in removing the pain, or checking the spasm; and if these have gone beyond the affected limb, the prospect is more unfavour- able. We know too well, that an injury of the branch of a nerve may speedily, perhaps instantaneously, affect the origin of that nerve, or the medulla spinalis, in such a way, as to prove a cause of both pain and spasm, independently of the state of the branch. In such a case, the division of the nerve, or the amputation of the limb itself, can do no good. We may, in such cases of pain, remove the arm or the leg, but the patient still feels as much pain as ever in the extremity of the stump, or even feels as if the hand or foot were still suffering. If we cannot cure the state of the origin of the nerve, in this case, we can do no good. I am, therefore, warranted in saying, that whether the pain arise from an wounded nerve, or be