,545 which we are more ignorant, and, to speak perhaps somewhat more suitably, respecting which, we have less knowledge of what is practically successful to guide us, we must be satis- fied with employing such means, for improving the health, as do not exasperate or excite the disease. I know not how to impress the reader sufficiently with a belief, that the most important general principle he can adopt is, that after obviating the farther operation and immediate effects of the exciting cause, his object ought, most earnestly to be, the improvement of the general health, or promoting the correct and vigorous performance of all the functions, as constituting the main spring of recovery. Ask a young student how he should improve the health, and very probably he would reply, by the use of those invigo- rating remedies called tonics, and yet these might be the very worst he could employ. They are often useful, but only when they do not stimulate or excite the disease. Another person will say, keep up the action of the bowels; give pur- gatives, and all shall be well, or exhibit the mildest prepara- tion of mercury to act on the liver. I have already noticed a first rule so plain, that it cannot be mistaken, namely, to lessen the operation of the causa dolendi, or counteract, or directly lessen its effect, so as to arrest its progress, and check the action, and this I have illus- trated by the effect of bleeding in inflammation. But there are causes more remote, which may keep up dis- ease, modify its phenomena, and do most certainly aggravate its symptoms; these must be obviated. This leads to a second rule, which enforces the alleviation or removal of all disturbed or disordered action of any one organ or part, and the removal of all irritating and exciting conditions in general. This requires much attention to the condition of the system, and of individual functions. It would be quite in vain, here, to attempt a minute detail of the mode of carrying this into effect. The alvine discharge is to be specially attended to, both in point of regularity and quality; and when either are defective, means of improvement must be used. A daily and free stool, 2 N