510 action have begun, are alike injudicious. All our best old writers, are in favour of instant, immediate, amputation in cases essentially requiring it. Wiseman, Le Dran, Ranby, See., in military practice, advised the operation to be per- formed, if possible, on the field. In civil practice, Mr. Pott was an advocate for immediate operation. But this is not to be taken in its extreme sense, although some have actually gone so far as to think it impossible to amputate too speedily after the injury. Immediate amputation, is not, by reflecting surgeons, understood to mean the performance of the opera- tion as soon as the instruments can be got ready; but is con- sidered in opposition to the plan of delaying, not only till reaction, as it has been called, had been fairly established, but inflammation had begun and subsided, and suppuration be produced. Faure, and Leconte, were advocates for delayed amputation, and asserted that their immediate amputations proved fatal. But it was observed by Boucher that they did not operate soon enough. They delayed till the inflamma- tory stage had commenced, and thus attributed to the plan, that which was produced by their own inattention to prin- ciples. He who waits thus long, must wait still longer, and delay till the inflammation have subsided. If 24 hours elapse, it is too late to operate till inflammation subside. When I say decidedly, that we must delay till the patient begin to recruit, I as firmly maintain, that we axe not to delay beyond this. The time required for rallying, must vary according to the effect on the constitution. It may be an hour, or it may be six hours, but whenever we find the tremor subsiding, the countenance becoming more animated, or natural, the pulse steady, and the stomach ceasing to reject its contents, we may consider the operation as warrant- able. In injuries attended with great shock, the patient sometimes feels no pain till he begin to rally,’and in this case, the commencement of sensation ought to be the signal for operation. We must remember that there is a diffei'ence arising from the shock or tremor of a gunshot wound, and that arising from the more extensive laceration produced by machinery or explosions, with shattered bones, or compound