453 often thicken, or at least not become thinner, as it extends, but it is farther fortified by the formation of successive layers of coagulated blood, or fibrin, within. But, sooner or later, inflam- mation comes on, and involves the coverings. I know that it will be said I have begun at the wrong end, for it is the enlarge- ment of the sac which distends the skin, and then the skin thereby inflaming, gives way, and the sac is opened. This, doubtless, may be the case, but I am sure that inflammation may also begin in deeper parts in the very sac or tumour itself, and spread outwardly. In large aneurisms, when the growth has been steady, but always progressive, we find that the neighbouring parts become involved in disease, and are absorbed, not altogether by pressure, but by a complication of pressure and disease. Thus, we find in popliteal aneurism, that the joint may be affected, or in aneurism of the posterior tibial artery, the interosseous ligament is absorbed, part of the two bones removed, and the tumour appears in front. In aneurism of the aorta, the ribs are absorbed sometimes to such an extent, that a large pulsating tumour can be felt, and seen, all along the side of the dorsal vertebrae. When the sac or tumour opens by sloughing or suppuration, the blood does not always immediately flow, but a coagulum protrudes, being part of that, lining the sac, and this, till it be displaced, pre- vents haemorrhage. In other cases, the blood flows directly, and the opening may either prove instantly fatal, or a diffu- sion of blood, with great weakness, and followed by separation and disorganization of the parts in the vicinity, take place. It is also possible for the whole tumour to be affected more acutely with low inflammation, and gangrene of the entire aneurism to take place. Death may follow this, or extensive sloughing may ensue, the artery be obliterated, and granula- tions fill the wound. Aneurisms of internal arteries, bounded by serous membranes, have been supposed literally to burst, by laceration or rupture of the thin sac, whilst, if covered by mucous membrane, it opened like external aneurism, by sloughing. I have doubts how far this is invariably correct. Aneurism may also prove fatal in an adventitious way, not merely by involving parts essential to life, but by making parts