450 that little, if any passes down. In the formation of aneurism this does not happen, for the blood escapes more gradually, with less force than we use with the syringe, and the outer coat resists and becomes thicker. Much, however, depends on the size of the laceration, the connexion and situation of the vessel, and the changes which the outer coat undergoes. On examining various aneurisms, we readily observe in some, the aperture in the inner and middle coats, and the expansion of the outer one and sheath into a chamber', whilst in others, the whole cavity very strongly resembles an actual expansion of the whole vessel, as was supposed by Fernelius. More careful observation, however, will make us cautious of adopt- ing this opinion; for what at first appears to be truly the arterial substance or canal immensely distended, may be dis- covered to be the dilated sheath and cellular coat, the piopei substance of the vessel being sometimes quite divided trans- versely, so that, correctly speaking, the ends of the artery are greatly separated, or at other times the coat seems, either by different fissures, to have been stretched, or without this, to have been partially distended, and lost in the margins of the dilated sheath, &c. And I go on to observe, that when the cellular coat is distended, it comes also to thicken, so as to resemble very much the artery itself; and from the approxi- mation of each to a similarity to the other, it is not always easy to say where the one ends, and the other begins. It is this which, in aneurism of several weeks or months duration, has led to the idea that the disease consisted in mere dilata- tion. This apparent uniformity, however, is rarely met with, compared to the distinct formation of an adventitious cham- ber or sac attached to the artery, produced by the distention and thickening of the cellular coat and sheath. This cham- ber is sometimes, even in the aorta, no larger than a goose- berry ; a fine example of which is in Dr. Hunter’s museum. In other cases, it is larger than a child’s head. Sometimes the communication between the two is merely by a neat orifice in the side of the artery, not larger than the barrel of a quill; in other cases, there is an irregular opening, which would admit one or two fingers, with smooth and distinct edges,