530 is found inflamed and thickened, lined with lymphatic exu- dation, or filled with pus, or obliterated. If the vein be traced downwards it is usually found healthy below the wound. When the inflammation has originated at the elbow, the inflammation has spread up to the external jugular vein, and along the subclavian, yet, in such cases, the vena cava, may, as well as the heart, be apparently sound, but the lungs may be inflamed, and contain abscesses. In other cases, we find both the vena cava and the heart, dark coloured. The blood is generally florid in the vessels. When the vein is inflamed without suppuration, the coats become thickened, and a sec- tion remains round like that of an artery. When pus is contained in a portion of vein, that portion often loses its inflamed appeai’ance, whilst a long tract beyond it is of a deep red colour. If the disease have pi’oved rapidly fatal after the application of a ligature, a clot is usually found both above and below the ligature, sometimes red, sometimes yellow, like coagulable lymph. Where the constitutional symptoms are severe, or the local disease considerable, it will be proper to have early recourse to venesection. The quantity of blood to be taken away, and the propriety of speedily repeating the evacuation, must depend on the effect produced. When we diminish the fre- quency of the pulse, and lessen all the uneasy sensations of the patient, we are warranted to repeat the evacuation in the event of an exacerbation. But where an early detraction of blood has not been of decided advantage, but has rather been followed by sinking, it will require symptoms of acute inflam- mation appearing in some new part to justify a recurrence to the lancet. I have seen venesection carried to a great length without advantage, even, when aided by the application of blisters, to painful parts of the thorax. I do not fiom this, however, dissuade from the use of the lancet, but only from pushing it beyond that degree which gives decided relief. Ex- cessive evacuations, if not essential to a cure, and evidently bringing it about, must, on the other hand, sink the patient, and destroy any chance, he might otherwise have, of 1 eco' ei ing. Generally speaking, I would say that venesection is not well