that which more directly occasions the general collapse. When a powerful stream of electric matter is, by the discharge ol a large phial, sent through from one side of the foot to the other, the whole system is instantly enervated. But this is the consequence, not of the diffusion of the electric matter over the system, for that does not happen, but of the effect pro- duced upon the foot. From the starting and universal ener- vation, it is difficult to persuade one, that this extensive effect arises sympathetically, from the state of a tract not larger than a writing pencil. We have a farther proof of this in gunshot wound, where universal failure is produced by the state of the mere tract of the ball. It is not essential that we have a pi’e- vious excitement. It is sufficient that we have a rapid and excessive exhaustion of a part. Whether this, in the case of gun- shot wound and electric matter, be always necessarily preceded by a corresponding excitement, is not altogether so certain as some theories would make it appear to be. The part, if I might use a tropical language, may have its power imme- diately crushed or smothered, as it were, by the excessive stimulus or injuring cause ; and debility follows the applica- tion of that cause so instantaneously, that the previous stage of excitement, if it existed, could not be detected. Shock, may manifest itself most prominently by symptoms more con- nected with the nervous than the vascular system, and vice versa. In the former case, it is attended by nausea or vomit- ing, sometimes followed by diarrhoea, tremor, paralytic debi- lity, insensibility, or stupor. In the latter, the pulse is feeble, sometimes almost imperceptible. There is coldness, particu- larly of the extremities, and, divided vessels, if not of consider- able size, soon cease to bleed. Usually the effects upon the vascular system, however, are secondary, appearing through the medium of the nervous system. But the effects of shock must be modified according to the organ principally injured. A blow directed against the heart itself, or concussion of that organ, for example, is productive of oppression, insupportable palpitation, whilst the pulse is rapid and irregular, if not imperceptible. Concussion of the brain is productive of immediate paralysis and insensibility, but, ceteris paribus, the