170 is removed with great difficulty, perhaps never. In this chronic state when the membrane affected is extensive, and belonging to an important organ as the trachea, or intestines, the cautious, and very moderate exhibition of mercury, is sometimes of use, but if it do not rapidly prove beneficial, it is sure to do harm if pushed far. When the situation of the part admits of it, the local application of mild stimulants and astringents may be of use. Inflammation of the skin demands a separate consideration, for this texture is full of capillary vessels, as well as of nervous papillae; and from its extreme sensibility and delicate sympathy Avith the most important internal organs, its diseases have powerful effects on the system. The chief seat of inflammation is in the corpus reticulare, or outer vascular layer, placed on the corium, from which the action may be propagated in different decrees inwards. The most prominent symptoms are heat and redness, but in different species, or stages of the same species, these vary in degree, the colour from pure bright scarlet to deep purple, and the heat, from the acute sensation ol burn- ing to the slightest feeling, which it may be difficult to say whether it belong more to itching than warmth. The red- ness may be uniform, or it may be deepest, perhaps purp e, at the papillae, so that whilst the interstices are ot a pale red, the deeper colour of the papillae gives a spotted appearance to the skin. Pressure empties for a moment the vessels o the papillae. The subjacent texture is swelled, and soon feels either puffy or hard, according as the effusion into the cellulai substance ‘is serous or fibrinous. The rete itself does not swell much. This inflammation ends, in its mildest form, m absorption of the effused serum, arid desquamation of the rutide which is sometimes slow and not easily peiceptible. „ degrees produce vesication. When the blisters are S,n,.e, the serum may be absorbed, and the raised cuticle dries and peels off. When larger, they burst, and the pan either scabs or ulcerates, according to the seventy ol the d,s- In those cases where the inflammation is communicated to the subjacent cellular substance, suppuration may take place there, and this is more apt to spread under the skin