64. ffeces are moved along it; and the muscular coat is also, so long as it retains its power, thrown into spasmodic and irregular action like colic. The sensibility, however, varies in different cases: sometimes it is very small, in other cases, where the pain is little, the coat is so excitable, that stools take place almost immediately afler eating. The secretion is always affected. If we have the bowels in •itated by worms or any other cause, the part is excited, and even becomes redder without inflammation. The mucus is increased in quantity, and mixed with more albumen, for it becomes flaky on being put into hot water. It we have inflammation produced, both the villi exhale more serum, and the follicles furnish more mucus, but it is still more albu- menous, and from one oi' other of these sources, fibiin also is yielded, so that the dejection contains shreds of this substance, or sometimes are entirely made up of these shreds contained in a bloody serous fluid, exactly resembling the appearance of the blood in one stage of our process of washing it for the purpose of obtaining its fibrin. In high degrees of inflam- mation, the secretion is suspended, and the part runs on to gangrene, or in a few cases layers of fibrin are furnished, as in inflammation of serous membranes. In different instances, I believe, purulent secretion may take place without any abra- sion of surface, and sometimes it goes off very rapidly. I have not seen the coat infiltrated with pus which some have described, and believe they have mistaken serum and fibrin for pus. There may, without inflammation, be a deep red ormodena colour of this coat from congestion, particularly if accom- panied with irritation. We see this in an inverted intestine, in some cases of artificial anus. The surface becomes less villous, harder, and of a purple or dark colour, from the dis- tension of veins, and partly from bloody infiltration. It does not consist with my object to trace the other changes of the mucous membranes, such as attenuation, softening, diseased follicles, &c. The lung is another important texture, and its inflamma- tion often demands the attention of the surgeon. It we open