201 seldom lasts long, but irritation soon predominates; and when there is much ulceration, the next transition is into hectic. We have irregular chills, sudden glows of heat, cir- cumscribed flush of the cheek, especially in the evening, per- spiration, emaciation, increasing weakness, loss of appetite, and, finally, stupor. There is always in this case profuse dis- charge, the sores are unhealthy, and either very extensive or very far disordered, and complicated with disease of the sub- jacent parts. Even when no hectic takes place, the patient may sink from mere exhaustion, proceeding from the profu- sion of the discharge, as well as the attendant irritation. lhe treatment of burns has been very opposite; but little has been added to the proposals of the earlier writers. The cause being heat, and the sensation that of excessive heat, combined, doubtless, with other modifications of pain, it is natural to suppose that one of the first remedies tried should be cold. All the Arabian authorities speak of this, and recommend it. Some used oil, beat with cold water, others cold water, or iced rose water, or ointments, over which was placed a cloth dipped in iced water. When cold was found to increase pain, their successors employed applications which were supposed to be potentially cold, as the juice of semper- vivum, lettuce, vinegar, &c., but Pare says these should be used a little warm. A popular remedy is a poultice of cold rasped potatoes. A much more favourite class of remedies, however, were the heating. Heat itself was employed, especially in slight cases, and it was supposed that the fire or candle, near which the injured part was held, attracted to itself the heat from that part. Substances potentially hot, or, in other words, stimu- lants, were often used, and consisted of mixtures of onions, salt and soap made into a plaster with oil; or stimulating resinous substances were employed. Hildanus, who seems to have found his “ dulcissima con- junx a source of experience in more disorders than one, says that she having scalded her arm with a boiling tenacious stuff had that immediately washed off with tepid water, and the