95 mesenteric vessels of a rabbit, or in its splenic artery. If the vessel be much contracted, as, for instance, by the appli- cation of ice to the web of a frog, the blood seems pale, very thin, and rather of a dirty brown than of a red colour. When the web is inflamed, the appearance of the blood varies according to the degree and duration. The light has also an effect on the appearance. Under vascularity apparently the same, and after the application of the same excitement, we find the vessels distended with bright red fluid, without globules, in one case, and in another, the fluid is reddish, muddy-yellow, or brownish. Watching the progress of the changes, it appears as if the globules first coalesced, or ran together, so as next to form a flocculent appearance, or patches of thick blood, with- out apparent globules. In all such cases, the motion of the fluid has ceased. But if the motion begin by any cause, globules immediately appear, or patches seem to break down and move off, and always in a globular form. It is there- fore evident, either that the globules still exist, but from great propinquity and want of motion cannot be seen, and the fluid seems homogeneous, or that if they be destroyed, the mass or patch can quickly resume its globular structure. In many paits, from the stagnant state, no globules can be seen, and we should say the fluid was homogeneous; but presently a globule revolving partially, or changing its position, comes to be seen, and evinces that the globules have not been destroyed. If we puncture a vessel when the fluid is in this stagnant, and apparently homogeneous state, the blood flows out, and is just as globular as ever. In higher degrees, the fluid is coagulated, and does not flow, but then the part is irrecoverable. From all that I have seen, I consider, that if the part be not dead or moribund, the blood is still globular, but the globules may be so close together, that they cannot be distinguished. If we inflame the intestine of a rabbit by injecting a stimulating fluid into the abdomen, we find, if the animal be inspected before being quite dead, that the peri- toneal coat is arborescent to a minute degree, the blood is globular; and if the bowel be pinched between the finger and thumb so as to have its vessels emptied, as those of the