362 three ounces of water. Mr. Averill recommends, in prefer- ence to all these, the concentrated nitrous acid, to be applied by means of a brush. Arsenic has been recommended as an internal remedy, but I have never known it do any good. I must say the same of mercury. Carbonate of iron has also been employed, both externally and internally, but nothing short of the destruction of the diseased part can be depended on. SECTION ELEVENTH. I shall confine at present my account of scrofula vei’y much to the ordinary form of tumour affecting the glandular sys- tem, particularly the lymphatic glands, leaving some of the more particular variations dependant on or connected with texture and function, to be noticed when I come to consider the diseases of other parts, especially the joints and bones. This plan will at least furnish us with some principles and a general system of treatment applicable to the disease, suscep- tible, however, of alteration or modification, according to the peculiarity and combination of symptoms. The circumstance of the disease affecting chiefly the lym- phatic glands, and especially those of the upper part of the neck, has obtained for it the name of scrofula, as the enlarge- ment thus produced gives a resemblance to the throat of a sow. From the number of glands affected, and these being as it were heaped up, it has also been named struma. The older writers divided scrofula into two varieties, the struma mansueta and struma maligna, or the mild and malig- nant; and I see no reason why this distinction should be given up. The tumour in the mild form, I speak by com- parison, for the mildest is bad enough, begins with a soft tumour, which very early has a doughy feel. It is never hard, that is indurated, but if the capsule of the gland be thickened and resist, whilst the substance swells, with little fluid, the tumour for a short time feels firm, and as it slips perhaps under the finger, is supposed to be harder or more resisting than it really is; for if fixed, it is asceitaincd to be evidently elastic, and although firm, or even tight, cannot be called hard. If cut into at this time it is found to be different 1