418 mals. Little has been added to our practical knowledge, however, since the time of Haller and Petit. Longitudinal wounds are attended with comparatively small separation of their sides. Oblique wounds have a separation in proportion to their extent, whilst transverse wounds separate so much as to become circular; they are, therefore, the worst of all wounds. Various experiments have been made on dogs and other animals, to ascertain the precise effects of different degrees of injury, but these cannot be considered as applicable to the human subject, for, in man, arterial wounds are much more difficult to control or heal. There is one circumstance, however, which I believe is common to all, namely, that if the sheath of the artery be not removed, the immediate effects are less rapid than if it be, and, where a natural cure is possible, it may take place in the former case with a degree of injuiy which would prove destructive in the latter. An artery punc- tured with a needle pours out a small quantity of blood, but the puncture heals, and leaves no trace of its existence. A longitudinal slit to the length of a line in the femoral arteiy of a dog, the sheath being removed, produced a small jet, which at last stopped, and on examination a coagulum was found between the lips of the wound, which were a little thickened by infiltration of blood. W hen the sheath was not removed, the haemorrhage was very feeble, and an ecchymosis took place in the sheath. In this case the cure is accom- plished on the principle I have alluded to in noticing an wound of an artery through a vein. A slit between two to three lines in length, the sheath being removed, produced fatal haemorrhage; the sheath not being removed no great haemor- rhage took place, but a swelling by effusion into the sheath was° produced, which gradually disappeared within three weeks, before which time the external wound had healed. On killing the dog, the artery exhibited, externally, a little white tumour adhering strongly to it and to the sheath, and cover- ing the site of the wound. Internally, it exhibited a round depressed cicatrix, which could not be separated by macera- tion. The canal was pervious. This experiment confirms that of Dr. Jones, who says, that on killing a dog in little