323 to be considered, and the tumour can be quickly removed, but the vessels cannot easily be got at to be tied, the actual cautery may with advantage be substituted for the ligature. SECTION FIFTH. The next tumour I shall notice is still more varied in its texture from the natural structure. It may be called the granulated tumour, irom its resembling a compressed mass of giains of a white or grayish colour, amongst which we some- times meet with one or more cysts filled with a fluid as black as ink. So far as I have seen, no cells are formed containing bloody fluid. W hen I describe it as granulated, I do not mean that it does actually consist of a packet of distinct giains, but merely that the section is not smooth, and the substance apparently homogeneous, but something like sha- green. When such a tumour is laid hold of by the two hands, it breaks readily if it be large, and the fracture, as the mineralogists call it, exhibits the rough granulated surface which I have described. The shape is generally irregular; ■but when large, pretty uniform nodules are observable. The pain is seldom acute; but when inflammation is excited there is lancinating pain, and the health suffers from fever and irritation. Suppuration is not very apt to take place, but even without this the neighbouring lymphatics and glands may come to swell; and there are instances where the lym- phatic glands have formed a mass of disease much larger than the original tumour. When by suppuration or abrasion the tumour is exposed, it does not ulcerate nor fungus sprout out, as is often supposed, but the surface of the tumour remains excoriated, and grows or swells, so that it projects like an excrescence, but is not a fungus by ulceration. It is a mere growth of the tumour, and the edges of this excoriation may come to be covered with cuticle. This stage often passes for cancel, and the surface is called a cauliflower fungous excres- cence by those who look only superficially at the case. It is indeed an excrescence, but it is one produced by mere en aigement of the tumour on that point where there is least