what tumid, and in a state bordering on inflammatory action, if not actually inflamed, we must upon no account operate, until, by cool lotions, or, if necessary, the application ol leeches, or constitutional remedies, or perhaps the mere lapse of time, the excitement have been allayed, and the part brought into a more natural condition. For, if we cut parts in a state of disease, or preternatural action, we can expect nothing but an accession of gangrene on the stump. After these remarks on wounded arteries, and the means of restraining haemorrhage and curing false aneurism, I shall next offer a few observations on true aneurism, or that expan- sion of the coats or sheath which may be produced without either external wound or complete laceration of all the coats of the tube. The ancients were acquainted with external aneurisms, and gave them their name, from the distention, and consequent enlargement, of the part where they were situated. Etymo- logists derive the term from the dilatation, not of the vessel which might be opened or pour out blood, but of the tumour which was lormed by this. As such tumour was also supposed to arise sometimes from the mouth of the vessels opening and allowing blood to run out, or from transudation, the term aneurism may also have been given, from defect of power or strength. With one accord, the ancient authors attributed aneurism to an effusion of blood from the vessel, by an open- ing made some way or other in its coats. Hildanus, one of the best of our old surgeons, decidedly adopted this opinion, and says, “ in aneurysmate itaque interiorem tunicam rumpi, exteriorem vero dilatari verosimile est.” Sennertus agrees with him, and says, “ atque ita proxima causa aneurysmatis est, arterias tunicas aperitio, exterioris vero dilatatio.” Ferne- lius first decidedly promulgated the doctrine, that true aneu- . rism arose Irom dilatation ol the artery like a varicose vein. In this opinion, he is followed by Mr. John Bell, who, whilst he admits that it may arise from ossification or rigidity of the coats leading to rupture, takes the general position that “ there is no breach of the arterial coats;” they ai'e thickened as they approach the sac, owing to “ inscrutable predisposition.”