223 the patient be not sensible of relief, perhaps more than after any former bleeding, and, particularly, if instead of abate- ment ot the symptoms, he experience rather a sinking and increase of weakness, it would be folly to persist. Bloodletting, the tepid bath, or fomentations, and purga- tives, followed by opiates, form the practice in the first stage; and when we succeed, it is by the early and judicious use of these, cai lying the evacuation quickly, as far as it appears to do good, but not senselessly pushing it beyond this. Blisters are of doubtful utility, and I fear, when indiscriminately applied, and especially if large, often add to the irritation, rather than prove advantageous. It is better to try the effect of detracting blood from the surface by cupping, or many leeches. Blisters are chiefly useful when the pain is circumscribed, and the violence of the disease has been so overcome by other means as to require merely a little effort to throw the balance to the side of recovery. In this state of hesitation of the part, if the expression be allowable, a full dose of opium, or a clyster containing laudanum, are highly proper ; for by allaying pain, they lessen a powerful stimulus to disease. Even at an earlier period, they are useful, and, alternated with the necessary puigatives, should be used as soon as the patient has been freely bled They also tend to diminish the irritating and mj unous effects of the loss of blood, and this alone is of no small consequence in the treatment of inflammation. It is of great importance to remove every excitino- cause and in surgical accidents, to place the intestine as soon as possible m a natural state. The dissections in hernia, parti- cu aily after operation, show that the danger does not always ptoceed from the state of the mere protruded intestine, but that the stomach may suffer more. This is illustrated by an experiment already related, where the stomach was much m amec, w ien the intestine was kept exposed at an wound, but the-rest of the bowels were healthy. The part chiefly exposed is not then always that which causes death. A fold of the intestine of a rabbit was kept exposed for forty hours. It had t,doral wound' -d ‘"e } C a bladder. It was moistened, and after the