wish to avoid inflicting all the pain, without any of the ulti- mate benefit of an operation. I have taken my description chiefly from the disease as it affects the mamma, but the same general characters prevail in all parts, in the testicle, lips, glans penis, uterus, &c. From the uterus being less capable of being examined carefully than an external part, one disease is more apt to be confounded with another, for various malignant tumours and sores affect the cervix uteri. It has of late become fashionable to talk of extirpating the cancerous cervix, but no correct nosologist will hope for success, as it is impossible to remove all the con- taminated parts. That indolent tumours, perhaps even ulcer- ated, have been cut off with impunity, may be conceded, without admitting the most distant approach to a sanction of the operation in genuine cancel’. We distinguish a cancerous tumour from others, by its greater hardness, its slow but unremitting progress, the stinging pain which attends it, and its irregular shape; for no scirrhous tumour is ever quite uniform. When a sore is formed, it is to be recognised by the description already given. The exciting causes of this disease are such as tend to pro- duce an increase of action in the part, which gradually lays the foundation for an alteration in structure. These causes do not operate immediately in producing cancer, but do so indirectly, by exciting some degree of inflammation, or a state of the part, whatever name we may give to it, productive of a texture differing in organization from the natural one, and generally, though perhaps not always, larger in bulk. It is not necessary that the texture thus produced, should in every instance be exactly the same; it seems to be sufficient merely that it be novel, such as we find to be the result of unresolved inflammation as it is called. Flow long such a tumour, or new organization, may remain unchanged, depends on causes which we cannot always ascertain, but, to a certainty, is much influenced by the state of the constitution. Many such tumours remain' with their original organization; others assume the nature of some of the tumours already described.