,508 rate exercise or travelling, country air, tonic medicines, &c. Fourth, those means which sooth or lull the nervous system, such as the prudent use of opiates. Irritation itself can only be effectually removed by removing or destroying the cause, which it is not always in our power to do. When we cannot get rid of the cause, we must not only attend to the means of lessening irritability, but try, as far as we can, to lessen irritation of the part, by promoting adhesion of an wound, allaying that smarting and uncomfortable sensa- tion which attends certain degrees and species of inflammation, by fomentations, poultices, posture, soothing dressings, and letting out pus, removing distention, extracting foreign bodies, &c. Generally speaking, we use every mean for restoring the injured part to a state of health, and promoting recovery. We assist this plan by conjoining, if necessary, those medi- cines which lessen sensibility or perception, such as opiates, which are peculiarly useful when there is pain. If all these fail, then, if the situation of the part permit, it must be removed as incurable. I have described certain states as resulting from wounds and injuries, and, of course, from regular operations, but it is not to be supposed that these are always to be met with pure and uncombined ; for not only may they come to be mixed up with one another, so as to make it difficult to say which predominates, but also inflammation and its consequences may be superadded, and increase greatly the perplexity of the case, both as to its precise character and correct mode of treatment. We have seen that there are different states of great danger that may attend an wound; and which, if allowed to con- tinue, or, if impossible to be removed, may prove fatal. A state of excessive pain, or sensibility, if it cannot be con- trolled, must either prove destructive, or call for the removal of the parts. A state of extreme irritation is attended with the same consequences, but even where neither of these states exists, there is another alike dangerous, perhaps still more hopeless, from the nature of the wound itself. A complica- tion of shattered bones and divided arteries, and lacerated integuments, setting aside all consideration arising from im-