157 that of mere preservation, it is of the nature of obscure inflammation, we may succeed in lessening or removing it, by the application of leeches, &c. But when there is no degree whatever of inflammatory action, and especially when the tumour is more of a specific nature, we seldom do good by this plan. Hence, the absurdity and danger of wasting time, by attempting to cure a schirrus by leeches. , Such means as can produce a new action in a simple tumour, may, by destroying the condition connected with the new organization, prevent the farther deposition of such oiganization ; and in the meantime, the absorption ^oinsr on i l • r o as usual, the tumour is removed. Absorption of the tumour always existed, but the structure was immediately renewed; now it is not. Mercury sometimes does good in this way. It is conjectured that it acts by exciting or promoting absorp- tion ; but if so, why does it not cause the absorption of every tumour, and of every part ? And will it be maintained that absorption did not go on briskly before it was given ? Its operation in this way is still better seen in the cure of a venereal bubo, or a node, or syphilitic effusion of fluid. This last was absorbed as fast before, as after, the exhibition of mercury, but the medicine stops its reproduction. Mere excitation never promotes the absorption, or removal of a tumour, and mercury does not act in this way, otherwise wine ought to be as effectual. If any thing can be supposed to act directly as a cause of absorption, it must be continued pressure, friction, &c. But even in these cases, the first effect, I believe, is on the particles of the texture, and they are absorbed faster because they live shorter; but unless the pressure or Iriction at the same time can alter the action, which is possible, the effect is not likely to be permanent. It may be supposed that some stimulants, by overexciting the pai tides of the tumour, might hurry absorption, but unless at the same time action be altered, this mode, if it ever take place, cannot be permanent. Some suppose that certain medicines promote directly the absorption, and use diure- tics, bcc., but these have no influence on the tumour. Iodine, muriate of lime, &c., when they do good, act by removing