350 shall have no cause to regret having cleared it in the imme- diate sito of the induration. Wheie the glands are unaffected, and the tumour recent, there can be no hesitation in the mind of any man as to the propriety of urging an operation. But if the skin so partici- pates m the disease that we cannot save enough to cover the wound, and, more especially if the glands he affected, what- ever the state ol the skin may be, doubts may be entertained as to the benefit of operating. The two cases are widely dif- ferent in point of danger, for if the glands be sound the mere loss of skin is of secondary importance. It ought to be a fixed principle that we should remove too much rather than too little of the coverings in suspicious circumstances. So far as my observation goes, a relapse has never taken place from the mere failure of adhesion, or the necessity of healing by ulceration. When a cancerous sore supervenes before the parts have healed, we cannot say that the patient has relapsed, the disease has never been removed, apart has been taken away, but a portion has been left possibly apparently sound, perhaps, however, not sufficiently examined by the operator before making his incision. This portion follows the ordinary course of cancer, and an open sore is the conse- quence. We may leave the whole pectoral muscles uncov- eied, and yet have no relapse, if we have got beyond the con- tamination. Much attention ought also to be paid to the entire removal of the fascia covering the breast, and continuous with that of the axilla, and the latter portion must also, if the arm- pit be at all involved, be carefully removed. If the glands be affected, even if the skin should be appa- rently sound, the danger of relapse is great, and this must be fai thei incieased, il the cancer have become open. When the lymphatic system has become contaminated, the chance of a relapse is indeed so great, that our best practical surgeons, although willing to perform an operation when desired, decline urging it. If, however, the glands be moveable, and there is otherwise a prospect of being able to remove every thing apparently diseased, I am disposed to recommend the operation, not as a cure, but as a palliative. It may seem