100 restless and burning hot all night; next day felt uncomfort- able about the chest, began to cough, and in the course of that day, or of the next night, had for the first time pain in his side. Now, I am quite aware that it may be said, that both general and local disease began at one and the same time, and from the same cause, but that only an excited, not an inflamed state of the pleura at first existed. But I am entitled to ask the proof of the existence of local disease before local symptoms manifested themselves, and at liberty, till satisfied on this point, to adhere to my own opinion. Now, what every practical man must have seen often in pleurisy, he may also have observed in inflammation of the brain or of the bowels. We know that there is no acute inflammation of the perito- naeurn without pain, which is one of the first symptoms. We know also, that causes acting on the stomach, &c. may not produce immediate local inflammation, but first of all fever, and then inflammation. Thus a person greatly heated may imprudently drink cold water, and have severe pain like cramp produced, and die speedily. But we also know that the first effect may be a shivering, followed by fever, and no pain may take place in the abdomen for some hours, although the progress of the disease, and dissection after death, establish the production and existence of inflammation. Could we be always apprized of the illness, or on our guard as to the pos- sible result when we are consulted, how many fatal inflam- mations might be prevented by bloodletting, &c. after the fever fairly begins, but before the local disease takes place, and whilst the origin of the nerves is alone or at least principally affected. It may also happen, that a fever thus produced by cold or other causes, may not produce inflammation of any of the viscera, but may so affect some of them as to cause, by their sympathetic influence on a third place, an inflammation there. The influence of the chylopoietic viscera on the skin is notorious, and cutaneous inflammation is often produced in many modifications by that influence, both in children and adults. Now, whether the fever produce the state ot any of these viscera which leads to cutaneous disease, or whether this state first of all produces fever, and then cutaneous disease,