167 sooner. This is no argument against depletion, but a power- ful incentive to resort to it early. Many, who might be saved if they were bled when attacked with what is called a simple catarrh, are killed by the use of the lancet when the symp- toms become more urgent; or, perhaps, it may be more cor- rect to say, are cut off thereby a little earlier than if they had merely been blistered and treated with expectorants. When an old man has been seized with bronchitis, or has had an acute attack supervening on what is called a chronic catarrh, and has not at first been bled, he very often becomes progres- sively, but not rapidly, worse. Then the pulse becomes fuller and quicker; there is obscure pain in the chest, but the pro- minent symptoms are cough, and oppressed breathing, and much defluxion. He is bled, and expresses himself decidedly iclieved, but in a few hours he is delirious, with intermittent pulse, and cold extremities. It is not unusual for a man to be considered as in no danger in the morning, and to be dead at night. His danger was great in the morning, but the symptoms were not enough dreaded. Opiates are of great service where there is pain, which always keeps up the disease, and does mischief. Perhaps the best illustration of this is in dysentery, which generally is caused by inflammation of the mucous coat of the colon and rectum. If need be, blood should be taken early, but not repeatedly, and immediately opium administered, with the sparing use of laxatives. Such, at least, is the treatment I have found most successful. If the disease were severe and long pro- tracted, a very gentle course of the mildest preparation of mer- cury, viz. friction with the ointment, was of service. Copious venesection and calomel are to be deprecated; but sometimes topical bleeding, as, for instance, the application of leeches to the anus, if the rectum be much affected, will be useful, for these two last years, dysentery has been more prevalent than I have known it to be before, since above thirty years ago, and then it did not continue so long. Referring lo what I have already said on the treatment of ■ m animation, I shall only add here, that, as a prominent and U*y unP easant symptom often is the discharge, remedies have