no increase of action as shall alter its nature, or cause inflam- mation, so may the abstraction of a stimulus to a great degree so disorder the action as to lead to the very same result; and more particularly if the abstraction be accompanied with sen- sation, as in the case of cold, or if there be strong predispo- sition in any delicate organ, rfs we sometimes see in the case of haemorrhage. Variation of temperature then may act directly, by the immediate change it produces on the part, as well as through the medium of the sympathies already explained. There is a standard temperature of the body, but this may be affected even in the internal parts, and, we know, is constantly varying at the surface. The human body is at the centre usually about 98°. Now, an important question may be put, namely, What effect would be produced on the bronchia, by inhaling air greatly below zei'o—should painful sensation be produced, or the temperature of the lungs be diminished ? Judging from the effect of cold air in lrosty weather on a bronchial surface predisposed to disease, or peculiarly sensible, when, although the rest of the body have been well defended, cough, stifling, or sharp pain may be instantly caused, we should say that consequences both pain- ful and dangerous must result. But we find, from the testi- mony of all who have been in very cold climates, and amongst others from Captain Parry, that although the thermometer min-ht stand at 40° below zero, and a transition might be made instantly from a mild temperature within, to one 80° or 120° lower without, vet no injury was sustained by the lungs, noi any painful sensation produced. This may in pait be explained by the observation, that only about one-eighth of the air in the lungs is thrown out at each ordinary expira- tion, and consequently, seven-eighths of air, heated at least to 98°, remain to be mixed with the eighth of cold air. It also appears, that there is in a low temperature more heat evolved, and this evolution takes place as well in the lungs as elsewhere, whilst diminished exhalation will also carry off less heat. But the question next presents itself, namely, How the nostrils, larynx, &c. do not suffer from the extreme cold ? There is no doubt that even in this country they do