210 part, which is said to mortify. This is preceded by lividity of the inflamed surface, and whilst the ulcerated or imme- diately injured portion becomes black or purple, the adjacent parts become erysipelatous. This is to be managed on prin- ciples soon to be explained. Sixthly. The ulceration may spread or go deeper, and the skin becoming undermined, bags and sinuses form. In such cases we must use, ii they can be borne, rollers and compresses, and make dependant openings; and by solution of sulphate ol zinc, chloride of lime, or other salts, cover the surface with a layer of coagulated pus, at the same time that the vessels are excited to a better action, by the operation of these stimuli. Seventhly. Burning by gunpowder is attended not only with the scorching of the skin, but the grains of powder are also sunk into the skin. These ought to be carefully picked out, provided this can be done with less irritation than their pre- sence would excite. There is some chance of the skin being tatooed if they remain, but this is not usual. Poultices pro- mote their discharge, but also increase the risk of ulceration. When this must happen, they may be used. Vinegar forms a good application in this case, but in general it must be gi-eatly diluted with cold water, which of itself is often the only application which can at first be tolerated. Afterwards the surface may be covered with cotton, or some of the mild liniments already noticed, if the cotton do not agree. Eighthly. The application of heat, even to the surface, may on different principles, influence and even inflame the parts below, and therefore it is, ceteris paribus, more dangerous when the skin over the head, thorax, or abdomen, is burned. The constitutional or general treatment next claims our attention, and two leading objects I apprehend to be, allaying the effects of pain, and supporting the strength. Bloodletting has been advised by some to cure the inflam- matory fever, and I will not decidedly say that in no case can it be admitted, but of this I am confident, that in most cases the injury is either too severe to permit, or too slight to require it. Generally, irritation rather than synocha attends this accident, and it is only when the patient is vigorous, and