180 the tearing of the finger nail to the mangling or crushing ot the limb itself, one principle must be our guide. In all cases where there is a reasonable chance of adhesion taking place, the production of that ought to be our earnest and primary endeavour, as we thereby most effectually prevent inflamma- tion. When we cannot succeed in this, or have no hope of doing so, our next object is to procure suppuration as soon as possible. When the injury is severe, and the constitution greatly impaired, it comes to be both a delicate and important question, whether the risk is to be diminished or increased by the removal of the part itself. From the peculiar character of the skin, a very slight laceration or fretting may, from the particular kind of injury done to the nervous extremities, cause first inflammation at the mere spot, and then, especially if the constitution be bad, a rapid propagation of it. In such cases, I am satisfied that if the part be not extensively injured, it would be better to cut away the abraded and lacerated skin, and leave a clean wound. In debilitated habits, erythema may spread from the injured part under two conditions. It may extend along the skin, whilst the corresponding parts below are tolerably healthy, or the deeper parts may keep pace with, or even proceed farther in disease than the surface. This is evidently the most dangerous of the two. ... c , The treatment consists in allaying the irritation o t e wound itself by mild dressings or poultices, procuring a free discharge of matter, affording a gentle support to the parts, and applying to the inflamed skin lotions, of the temperature which is most agreeable. Neither hot nor very cold applica- tions in general do good. They may consist of pure cam- phorated spirit of wine, down to water itself, with scarcely any admixture of this spirit, according to the effect produced m allaying pain and smarting; but I believe that water or wnak solution of acetate of lead, will in general be more useful an very stimulating applications. There is little ..me a lowed to rectify the constitution. All that we can hope for is to pre- vent farther derangement, and obviate the effects ot debt y, by attention to the bowels, regulation of the- diet, and h