371 Another important part of our management, consists in obviating the direct causes of disease. We should, therefore, do every thing in our power to prevent the absorption of acrid matter. Excoriations behind the ear, herpes, porrigo, &c. ought to be checked with the utmost promptitude. It is also proper to allay the irritation of dentition by early scarifica- tion of the gum. But although I would thus prevent, as far as possible, swelling and irritation of lymphatic glands, I do not mean to maintain that even in scrofulous habits, such swellings shall invariably end in scrofulous disease. I only wish to avoid these, as probable exciting causes. I may make the same remark with regard to sudden variations of temper- ature, which, therefore, ought to be guarded against. In too many instances, notwithstanding every caution, the glands become affected with scrofulous disease, either in consequence of their natural delicacy, or of some more obscure cause not yet explained. In the lungs, tubercles form, without the evident operation of the exciting causes of inflammation. Subsequently, either by the application of such causes, or by changes going on within themselves, cough, emaciation, and the other symptoms which mark their presence, manifest themselves. Here we are very apt to mistake an effect for a cause, nevertheless, although, in the present state of science, we know of no infallible way of preventing their progress, we have yet good evidence, that it may be much accelerated by exposure to cold, intemperance, and other causes which tend to-produce pulmonary excitement, which, therefore, ought to be avoided. The same remark, mutatus mutandis, will apply to other organs. The mesenteric glands, for example, may be thrown into disease, by disorders in the alimentary canal. Inflammation produced in any part where it is tedious, or, becoming chronic under any circumstance, is apt, in scrofu- lous habits, to become affected by that disease. Acute inflam- mation is much less so. When joints and tendons become inflamed from sprain, or other causes, the most speedy means should be employed for their cure. When disease has actually taken place, it is proposed to cure it either by directly tonic means, on the part of those