with more dense fibrin, is often confined to irregular portions, and rarely exists to a great extent. I think if it extend con- siderably laterally, it does not go deep. It has technically been called the red softening, to distinguish it from the gray, which is a sero-purulent infiltration, existing as a prelude to abscess; but it does not, in such cases as I have examined, as yet contain pus, but has more an appearance of lymph. Lallemand has particularly attended to the softening, which he considers as a sequence of inflammation produced by extra- vasation. Congestion leads to rupture, and the effused blood, he imagines, excites to inflammation, and this in its turn causes softening; in the neighbourhood. He remarks, that at o O 7 least one half of the cases of softening are met with in the corpora striata and thalami optici. It is scarcely possible to have inflammation of the substance of the brain without co-existent, if not previous disease of the pia mater, and therefore we cannot determine whether the symptoms of the two affections be different. In both, pain of the head is a prominent local effect. There may be for a day or two shooting pains in the head, and then severe pain fixed in the region specially affected; but I fear it is little better than a speculation to describe the modification of sensation in the two. Fever is also an effect, and other consequences result from the progress of the disease. It has been said, though I think without satisfactory evidence, that softening of the brain is productive of contraction of the flexor muscles. Even considerable abscess may exist for a considerable time, especially in the anterior lobes, without stupor or loss of muscular power, but ultimately both of these effects take place. Remote disease may be produced by the state of the brain. Not merely the different muscles, but in an inferior degree even the fasciculi, and to a still less extent the individual fibres, are connected to one another by cellular substance, in which the vessels pass. Vi e might therefore expect to find a muscle readily inflame, and follow the couise of phlegmon. But this is by no means the case. Extensive inflammation of the muscle, either by irritants or setons passed thiough it,