sensibility is great. 1 o remove the cuticle is therefore improper. But shall we pierce the blister with a needle, and let the fluid ooze slowly out ? What good can immediately result from this ? Is the fluid doing harm, and is it not often so gelatinous that it cannot ooze from an acupuncture? I believe that the fluid is as good an application as can be made to the tender cutis, and that we ought to retard the breaking of the blister, as thereby we allow time for the erythema to abate, and should only add to the pain, by speedily exposing the tender surface to the air. Dry cotton is often in the meantime a good application. Secondly. When vesications break and expose the cutis in a suppurating state, similar to that which may be produced by a cantharides blister, it is of great consequence to prevent ulceration. This never happens unless the cutis be destroyed, for there is till then, only purulent secretion. Our object, granting that the original injury have not destroyed the life of the skin, is to prevent so much inflammation as shall dis- organize it. This is to be done by the general remedies already noticed, either cold or stimulant, as may be dictated by sensation; and then, when the cutis is exposed, we shall oftener succeed by mild, than by irritating applications, such as cerussa ointment, or dusting the part with chalk, or cover- ing it with dry cotton. On the face, where it is of great consequence to prevent ulceration, or in other words a scar, we may frequently succeed by first using cold diluted vinegar, and then after a little, applying dry cotton, which is to be allowed to remain so long as it continues dry, or in the state of a dry crust on the part. Should patches become soon moist, they may be daily, or even twice a day removed, and replaced with dry cotton. If this plan do not succeed, we may use cerussa ointment made pretty thick with the powder, or astringent washes, or weak solution of chloride of lime or of soda. Thirdly. When the cutis does become disorganized, and ulceration takes place, the discharge is generally great in proportion to the surface, the smell is bad, and previous to healing, the granulations are apt to become luxuriant, and the