28 7 to recovery as rapidly as the powers of the system or of the part can admit. Our interference, therefore, can only be useful in so far as we defend the part from injury, and pre- serve the process from interruption. On this principle, it is sufficient that we have the part kept clean, free from irrita- tion, and every thing that could mechanically injure the gra- nulations. Were the ulcer altogether let alone, it would come, by the exsiccation of the pus, to be covered with a crust, which, in that case, would come to be considered as defensive armour to the part, but so many interruptions or irritations may be thrown in the way of recovery under this sponta- neous dressing, that after all the speculations of the admirers °f nature’ ifc is never willingly resorted to by practical men, unless in the case of small and very superficial sores. The artificial dressing consists chiefly in the application of poul- tices, dry lint, and simple ointment. Poultices are more use- ful for bringing a wound or suppurating surface easily and speedily into a state of ulceration, than in healing an ulcer. Ihe heat and the moisture are apt to bring out small pimples m the neighbouring skin, whilst the application of the poul- tice is otherwise inconvenient. Still, however, a healthy ulcer may very readily heal under the application of poultices, but these are still more useful when the ulcer is attended with irritation. Dry lint forms a very good defence or dressing for an ulcer; and as the edges secrete less pus than the centre^ it is frequently the practice to dress the lips with slips thinly spread with simple ointment, in order to prevent the lint from adhering, and the parts from being injured on its removing. ie dressings must be kept on by a roller, but this cannot be applied with the firmness requisite to keep it immov- •i e, un ess it embrace the whole limb from its extremity to somewhere above the seat of the ulcer. The roller, which s iou ( e of soft materials, must not be wound so tightly as to produce any pain ; it should merely be so firm as to pre- seive perfectly its own place and that of the dressing. Tim U CC* S 0uld be dressed once in the twenty-four hours, when it ought to be washed with tepid water/ This practice "es up°u t ie principle that we have no power of healing a vigor-