146 apt to cause mortification. 1 hey also often increase pain. Even cold water ought never to be employed in any accident, where the parts are not preternaturally hot, or where the inflammation is of the low kind, and never ought to be con- tinued longer than it is found to relieve the sensation, or may be required to carry off preternatural heat from the surface. The modus operandi of this remedy being evident, it may be thought that we could never err in its application. But there is perhaps no remedy more apt to be abused, and more capable of even doing harm. In two cases of inflamma- tion, both equally near the surface, it shall in one case aggra- vate, and in another relieve. Must then our practice be in regard to temperature quite empirical, trying first cold and then heat, to find which agrees best; or can we discover any principle to guide us. It is very easy to find a practical rule, namely, to use the one which relieves the sensation most; but still this is not a principle, but a deduction from experi- ment. In most cases when the inflamed part is below the cellular substance, or distinct from it, and the sympathy of equilibrium comes to operate, we must, if we reduce the action of the surface, injuriously increase that of the part already inflamed. This sympathy, however, does not always exist in the same degree, or in any degree; and, therefore, although we may form a tolerable conjecture, wre still require to confirm that by trial. Parts of different texture, as glands, sinews, bone, &c., lying very superficial, may be directly acted on by cold applied to the surface, and in the early stage of inflammation, may be relieved; but where these paits aie deeper, and even when superficial, cold, often, but not always, increases the disease. In inflammation of the female breast, for instance, we much more frequently do harm by cold applications than good; and when we do derive benefit, it is found either that the inflammation is altogether cellular, or the gland very superficial. Inflammation of the testicle is often greatly relieved by the application of iced water, and sometimes the swelling is actually speedily lessened, though not to the extent that the corrugation of the skin leads the patient to believe. In some inflammations of the bones or