76 be a propelling canal, or from the tube beyond the suppura- tion becoming obliterated. In inferior degrees, the arterv seems to pulsate more strongly, but in these, I believe that will be found to depend on strong action of the heart, together with a weakened and diseased condition of the coats of the vessels. In several instances, suppuration is very limited, parti- cularly il excited by a ligature. 1 he coats soon give way, and the vessel is said to be opened by ulceration, but this is an im- proper term. Sometimes, but very rarely, granulations are met with on the inner coat, or at least the inner surface of the artery, especially if small patches of suppuration have been confined to it. Such are correctly called cases of ulceration. The outer or cellular coat also granulates. If either a small portion of the artery be insulated, or if it be slit up after a ligature have been applied, we find that the surface in both cases is seen covered with a coat of fibrin, such as I have described when tendons are exposed. Then suppuration and granulation takes place. There is generally, but not always, deep-seated pain in the course of the artery like rheumatism; but in many instances, the constitutional fever constitutes the prominent character. Veins are much more frequently inflamed than arteries. The internal coat is always red, but it is more inclining to violet than in arteries. This colour is often produced with- out inflammation, as well as along with it, by mere staining; but in the latter case, there is always arborescence of the coat, or rather under it, unless it be so much thickened as to hide it. The coat becomes thickened, dull, rough, and more easily detached, and then the vascularity below is evident. The middle coat becomes thicker, redder, more easily torn, and yet so much denser, that it retains, like an artery, its cylindrical aperture when cut across. The outer coat becomes much thickened and injected, and also involves the surrounding cellular substance, so that it feels under the skin like a solid cord, very tender or painful to the touch. If not pressed, there is seldom acute pain in this part of the vein ; but some- times there are sharp and continued pains in the whole limb. The cellular substance, to a considerable distance, suffers,