it must be done with circumspection, for the limb is apt to suffer from copious evacuation. The utmost attention should be paid to the diet and general treatment after the operation, for causes apparently trifling may induce constitutional disorder, such as frequent and irre- gular pulse, great feeling of debility, and even the stools and urine may be passed involuntarily. These symptoms are always attended with coldness of the limb, but it still lives. By the use of opium and cordials, a patient has been recovered from this state of prostration, but the limb has immediately become insufferably hot, and then gangrene has begun, and a second attack of sinking has taken place. From this he may perhaps be again raised, and either after a hard struggle reco- ver, or after rallying a little, he may irretrievably sink. In all such cases we never give more cordials, or a higher stimulus than the ui*gency of the case actually demands, and with all our care, it is, perhaps, impossible to avoid undue excitation of the limb by the stimulation of the system. Light and fre- quently repeated nourishment, with stimulants which act more on the stomach itself, than universally on the nervous system, should be tried first. Of these stimulants, spiceries, aromatic spirit of hartshorn in small doses, a little carbonate of ammonia, &c. may be noticed. Wine, brandy, and tinc- tures, must be given with a sparing hand, and only in urgent cases. Opium is chiefly useful when there is great irritability of the stomach, or pain in the limb, or restlessness and irrita- tion of the system. Quinine may with propriety be given when gangrene is threatened, provided it do not excite the circulation. Gangrene much more frequently proceeds from overaclion of the limb than from mere defect of circulation, and this ought to be attended to in the administration of stimulants. Although mortification, from either of these causes, may begin in the toes, yet this is not always the case, for more especially, in consequence of excitation, it may begin on the foot, or lower part of the leg, or even at the wound itself. When gangrene takes place and spreads, amputation has been proposed, but this operation is much more dangerous