289 convert a bad sore into a good ulcer. The constitutional treatment, then, as it is called, is of as much importance as the local management, and the diet, with the action of the chylopoietic viscera, the salubrity of the air, the abatement of excessive sensibility or susceptibility, the procuring of sleep, and the general invigoration of the system, by moderate exer- cise if possible, and when necessary, by tonics, form points foi attention often more important than the composition of a dressing. In those who are more advanced in life, where the circulation is languid, the skin irritable, or otherwise diffeient from a state of perfect health, or the constitution bad, an ulcer, at present apparently healthy, may lose that character by very slight causes, and it seldom is safe to allow much, sometimes any walking exercise. The health may be pi'omoted by taking exercise in a carriage, or if a dependant posture be not found injurious, on horseback. Even in the healthiest ulcei, and the best constitution, if walking be found to injure the action, it must be refrained from ; some are injured even by sitting with the leg in a dependant position, and in every instance it should be occasionally placed horizontally. When the granulations reach the level of the surrounding skin, cicatrization ought to take place; but this sometimes fails, and the ulcer continues to granulate higher, so as to form what is called fungus. This may occupy the whole sur- face, or only a part of the ulcer. The granulations are more indistinct, and more flabby than those of a healthy ulcer, and although they sometimes, yet they seldom, cicatrize till they be reduced to the proper level. We may call this an over- acting, a hypergranulating, or a fungous ulcer, as we please. If we call it an overacting ulcer, we must not be misled so fai as to suppose that the luxuriance of granulations is a sign of vigour, or a high degree of what may be called the healthy action of an ulcer. It is, on the contrary, a mark of weak- ness or want of energetic action. The granulations are always flabby, and often so indistinct, as to resemble a polypus. ie mass can scarcely be said to consist of granulations, but iat iei of a pale gelatinous substance, yet so far vascular, as to ) eed when abraded. It is more entitled to the appellation