474 after the artery has been tied, than before it, for the branches are more enlarged and excited, and the limb, independently of the effects of the e;an<n-ene, in an unfavourable state. If the vessel give way at the part where it was tied, amputation has also been proposed, but the same unfavourable condition of the limb, and excited state of the vessels exist. It is better, though far from being a plan to be depended on, to tie the artery higher than where it has given way, if that be practi- cable. When an artery is tied between the heart and the tumour, the direct current of blood toward the sac is checked, and the sac can only receive blood by communicating branches. 4 he circulation then becomes languid in the sac, and if the inferior aperture should become obstructed by coagulum, whilst blood can in any degree enter by the superior one, it must become gorged, and possibly may be distended even to such a degree as to prove one cause of that inflammation which sometimes attacks the sac. It has been proposed, when the artery could not be tied between the heart and the sac, to apply the ligature beyond the aneurism, so as to obstruct the passage of the blood out of it. This was put in practice by Deschamps, and the proposal has lately been more decidedly brought for- ward, and acted on, by Mr. Wardrop. lhat it should be effectual, may at first sight be readily believed, when we con- sider that the transmission of blood being stopped, coagulation should take place. But we shall begin to doubt, if we con- sider, that when an artery is divided, and false aneurism formed, no direct transmission takes place, and yet a cure is not effected. It may be said, that in this case there is no regular sac, but a dilatable cavity, with which the aiteiy is connected, as we have seen, in such circumstances as must render obliteration difficult. On the other hand, in true aneurism, there is a regular cyst, often strengthened by layers of coagulated blood, and therefore when it is once filled, no more should enter, stagnation should take place, and the mouth be closed. This, doubtless, may be the case, but it is also to be remembered, that an artery does not close, or become obli- terated, either so rapidly or so easily as some suppose. In