478 on die stomach, give rise to excitement and irritation of the system. Digitalis has been proposed, to diminish both the force and velocity of the circulation, but I know no instance where it has been useful, and from its elfects on the system it may be injurious. The application of ice, or iced water, has been proposed in order to coagulate the blood, but the proposal is altogether speculative. We may freeze, but cannot coagulate blood in the vessels by cold, and he would be a rash man who would venture, even if he could, to freeze the blood in an aneurismal sac. One effect might certainly be looked for, namely, sloughing. And Mr. Hodgson mentions a case of inguinal aneurism, where it produced so much pain that it could not be continued. I have detailed, in a former part of this work, some experiments, proving that the temperature of the in- ternal parts may be diminished by applying a great degree of cold to the surface, but these do not show that any change was produced on the blood. We may, indeed, diminish the quantity in the capillaries, but this can have no effect on the aneurism. I know it will be said, that Guerin effected a cure both in a case of crural and of axillary aneurism; but it is very doubtful how far, in either of these instances, cold could be considered as the agent in recovery. In other cases, it has been also said to be successful; but in these it was combined with the plan of Valsalva. Coagulation of the blood in the sac being the immediate cause of a cure, it is very natural to mquiie, vhethei any other mode of compressing, besides the use of the ligature, could be effectual ? Three modes have been proposed. First, to place a compress on the tumour itself, and apply a roller over that; second, to press above; and, thirdly, below the sac. Any one of these should be effectual could a sufficient degree of pressure be permanently and efficiently kept up. Pressure on the aneurism must be in one respect dangerous, in as much as it acts on a morbid part, and may produce inflammation. But if it can be regularly, efficiently, and gently applied, there is no reason to object to the trial. I