335 a centre. The aspect of the sore itself is not always the same. In some instances, the edges turn outwards, from the circum- ference of the exposed part of the tumour becoming elevated, as it were, by a deep or internal growth, whilst the more central part exhibits more the process of destruction, that is, of excavation. I he whole surface, however, is destroying more or less rapidly, but the parts below are protruding one pait moie than another. In this situation, the sore has some- what the appearance of a flower, or has been compared to a cauliflower ; but the truth is, that the whole arises from the rising up or protrusion of the surface of the opened cyst, w'lnch becomes in a slight degree retorted; the appearance, therefore, of fungous exuberance is altogether fallacious, and is produced much more by the growth of the parts connected with the exposed cyst than from the cyst itself. Where these paits do not immediately enlarge, or enlarge in such a way as not to be productive of this effect, the margins rather fall in, the skin comes to contract, the whole volume of the sore is lessened, and the aspect becomes less frightful; or an inter- mediate state may be met with, where there is neither a falling in nor a retortion of the edges, but the sore remains for a long time shallow, and comparatively flat. A cancerous sore thus produced by the opening of a cyst is generally, in so far as it is itself concerned, slow in its progress; it may remain or months, it has been known for years, almost stationary. The progress of a cancer, and the extension of the mischief, arise more from the changes going on in other parts of the tumour, than from those of the first sore, although certainly these are not to be overlooked. The discharge, when the cyst first gives way, is generally like bloody serum ; presently it becomes yellower, or of a brownish colour, whilst the surface of the sore is covered with patches of ash-coloured stuff; the smell of the discharge is peculiar, and may be called foetid. is soie not being of the granulating or ulcerative nature, . rathLer of the ^PPurative, we are not to be surprised, that as in ot ici sores called depascent, the vessels should come to fr6 : haemorrhages> therefore, more or less frequent, take P ‘ > sometimes to such an extent as greatly to weaken the