57 exciter. We find that at first the secretion is increased, not only in the inflamed portion, but in other parts, and it is generally rendered more fluid and serous. Presently it becomes less for a time, and thicker, and if the inflammation rise higher, it may be suppressed altogether, or become bloody, as we see in the urethra. But if the inflammation have not this effect, we find that soon the discharge becomes more abundant and opaque, or ropy, or quite yellow and purulent in its appearance. The facility and rapidity with which this change takes place depends on the nature of the membrane. It is quickly and easily effected in the urethra, less so in the trachea, and still less so in the intestines, where it very rarely becomes purulent without abrasion, or loss of substance. Ani- mal mucus is, in its purest state, quite clear and transparent, and is not altered in colour or tenacity by being put into hot water, but by nitrate of silver it becomes whitish, or stone coloured. Mixed with nitrous acid, it does not coagulate, but remains, at least for a time, ropy, and becomes of a greenish yel- low colour. The purest seems to be that of the urethra, as oh most other surfaces it is seldom, if ever free from an admix- ture of albumen; for by putting the mucus of the bowel or trachea into boiling water, it becomes white, and more or less flaky. Chemical agentsmay also change its appearance. Nitrate of silver makes the tracheal mucus brownish or ash-coloured. Nitrous acid makes it of a greenish yellow. Hot water makes it turbid. It would be of great improtance to have a con- nected knowledge of the changes, chemical and sensible, which take place in the various modification of secretions. The bladder from various causes may have its mucus increased, and although this, like that of the rectum, may when secreted be glairy, and like jelly, yet by the action of the urine with which it is mixed, it may become ropy, or assume the appearance of a purulent sediment. If we mix a little of the thick fluid obtained from a diseased ovarium with urine, we find that there is soon formed afiocculent sediment, exactly like that met with in many cases of diseased bladder; and sometimes this deposite becomes, if the urine be kept for a short time, at the natural heat, like a magma, apt to be