tepid water, and the result was, that whilst the inflammation seemed to be removed fully sooner under the use of the latter, the part was much more apt to die or slough under that of the former. Allowance, however, must be made for the thin- ness of the web. The vessels being dilated in inflammation, it has been thought that astringents should be efficacious in the cure. We can place very little reliance on the effect of any astringent given internally in contracting the vessels at a distance, and it is in very few cases that we can directly apply such reme- dies to the diseased part. It remains to be yet proved, that if we could do so, this artificial contraction of the vessels should do any good in acute inflammation. Experience does not confirm the theoretical conjecture. In external inflam- mation, it is usual to apply cold solution of acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, or muriate of ammonia, but I am not satis- fied that these solutions have more efficacy than cold water. Solution of acetate of lead applied to the frog’s web makes the circulation more rapid, but it by no means follows that those agents which excite the vessels, or produce contraction, must cure inflammation. Doubtless they ought to do so according to a prevailing theory ; but setting the surer testi- mony of experience aside, which is altogether against theii utility, I can confidently say, that turpentine, laudanum, wine. &c. never had the smallest effect in removing the inflammation of a frog’s web, in the multiplied expeiiments I made. When they do good in the human subject, it is never by simply allaying acute inflammation. As pain is both an effect and aggravator, or at least a supporter of inflammation, it has been proposed freely to administer anodynes. We ought, however, to be aware, that inflammation is not a simple action, and that allaying one symptom will not always allay, far less destroy, the whole. We possess as yet no medicine which simply diminishes sen- sibility and mitigates pain. It would be of great importance if we did, for sensation has much influence on the contin- uance and consequences of inflammation. Opium, the most to be depended on, exerts at the same time a stimulating