484. the aperture between the artery and vein remains open, and both tubes continue pervious, and then a varix, or enlarge- ment of the vein, speedily takes place. It does not in general acquire a large size, and sometimes the coats are merely dis- tended and thickened, or made stronger. In other cases, they seem indurated by something like a coating of fibrin within them, and then, although by pressure we can empty the varix, yet we find a thickening left, or there may be some more partial deposition, so that an induration like a bean may be felt. In many instances, the coats soon seem to assume the character belonging to arteries, and the size somewhat diminishes instead of increasing. The tumour is seldom larger than a chesnut, often not so large, always irregular in its shape, though inclin- ing to be oblong, and the cicatrix may, or may not, be very evident. In some instances, it has a red, or purple appear- ance, but it is not actually inflamed, nor does it fester or give way. The colour of the tumour is seldom like that of the rest of the skin, but like a venous tumour in other parts, only not so blue, or deep in the colour, being rather purple. On applying the finger to the tumour, there is sometimes perceived a distinct pulsation, like common aneurism, as well as a thrill within it. In other cases, there is no pulsation, or expansive motion. In this case, which is very common, if the finger be laid on the tumour, a thrill is perceived, not easily described, but at once recognized when met with. It is not unlike the sensation we might expect, were there a small wheel whirl- ing in the fluid contained in the varix, and this tin ill is perceptible for a little way up along the vein. It is stopt by pressing the artery above the tumour, which then feels like a common varix, and may be emptied by pressure, but instantly fills again, though without any thrill, if the finger still be pressing on the artery above. This thrill, or feeling of internal whirling, is always observed by placing the finger gently on the varix, if the artery be not compressed. But if, whilst we allow the artery to remain free, we press, not gently, but strongly with the finger on the varix, then, we so far empty it, as not to permit ot the whirl, and feel only the stiong pulsation of the artery below, which sometimes seems to be