we often hear of the bad air of the hospital, and many sur- geons, I believe, declined to operate there in cases where they would have been less scrupulous in healthier situations. When this disease breaks out, it must be guarded against as a plague; the infected should be separated from those who are not yet attacked; all unnecessary communication must be prevented, more especially communication by contact; the wards should be carefully ventilated; but if possible, it would be still better to have the patients removed and their rooms shut up and washed. I can say little in favour of fumigation; but I fear it has in this as in other cases been too often trusted, to the neglect of more efficient preventatives. Very contrary opinions have been maintained with regard to the treatment, both general and local. Observing men, however, seem to be agreed in this, that climate and temper- ature, as well as other circumstances, may alter the nature of the disease, in so far as to render it sometimes highly bene- ficial, sometimes useless, if not detrimental, to have recourse to bloodletting. When the fever is high, and evidently of the inflammatory nature, early bloodletting has been found useful; in all other cases it should be avoided. Emetics have been recommended on the first attack, perhaps as much on theoretical as practical grounds. 1 he moderate use ot purgatives, on a general principle, is better supported. After bloodletting has been used, or where it has not been admissible, bark and cordials have been advised; but these must be given or withheld according to theii effects. Light nourishment, such as the patient can digest, ought to be given, for it must not be forgotten, that we may safely support where we dare not excite. Opiates have been advised as cordials; they are indeed highly serviceable, not as stimu- lants, but as allayers of pain. With regard to the local treatment, the same diversity of opinion has prevailed, some recommending strong stimulating dressings, varied according to the theory they have adopted: others only the mildest applications; whilst a third set propose to destroy the surface at once by the actual cautery. As the sore presents itself either generally or partially under two different circum-