44 llie sheaths of tendons. It lines the capsule which is fibrous, and more or less strong, but it cannot be traced over the surface of the cartilage, though some believe that it covers that, as well as lines the capsule, and can be more easily separated from the cartilage when that is about to suppurate. It is usual for inflammation to commence in one spot, and then extend quickly over the membrane, which becomes aiboiescent with small red vessels, particularly at its connex- ion with the margin of the bone or joint, and streaks are also seen in its substance, at the same time the quantity of secretion is increased, but it becomes more watery. The mem- brane becomes thicker, softer, more opaque, and redder, whilst the exterior or surrounding cellular substance, and aponeurosis, are more or less involved, and often highly inflamed or injected. As the inflammation proceeds, the red- ness of the inner surface becomes deeper, but it is seldom uni- versal, it rather forms patches ; and no part of the surface of the articular cartilage becomes red, showing that the membrane does not exist there. The surface is indeed sometimes dyed by blood which has been effused, but this is quite accidental, and happens both during life, and after death. If very thin, and the bone below be very vascular, the vessels may shine through it. If the inflammation go on, the membrane thickens more, lymph is effused forming layers, which may extend over the cartilage, flakes ofalbumenous substance are formed in the synovia, and presently the secretion becomes more or less purulent without abrasion of surface. In acute inflammation, the secretion appears for a short time to be suppressed. If the disease make slow progress, the membrane may ulti- mately, particularly in strumous habits, become indurated, somewhat like gristle, or small layers of it can be detached. If more rapid, the skin becomes smooth and shining from distension, then red, and after a lapse of more or less time the articular abscess bursts. If we amputate a limb at the joint, the remains of the synovial membrane inflame, and follow nearly the same course as serous membranes. The periosteum when inflamed becomes thicker, more opaque, and more vascular, and very early effusion takes place,