348 is absorbed. So long as the action remains unchanged, the deposite must be cancerous. But let us promote absorption faster than deposition can take place, and shall we not thus get rid of the disease? By applying firm, equal, and con- tinued pressure, may we not effect this purpose? No; even if we have succeeded in accomplishing the absorption of all the tumour which existed when we began, the vessels at the very boundary of the diseased structure will still continue their action, and all that we can promise to gain is, that the depo- site shall be made at a more extensive circumference than formerly. But setting aside this speculative reason, the warmest advocates for pressure cannot say that it will effec- tually do what may be accomplished much more quickly and more safely by the knife. Besides, it is almost impossible so to regulate the pressure as to prove, on the one hand, so efficient as to cause absorption of the tumour, without, on the other, producing so much excitement as shall accelerate the disease. This scheme, therefore, I believe, has now gone to the vault of all the Capulets. Next, it has been proposed to deprive the tumour of pabu- lum, by tying the arteries. If it had only one vessel which had no communication with others, this might be expected, perhaps, to prove effectual. But as the arteries freely com- municate, we can only, by tying the main vessel, diminish the tumour till the other branches enlarge. It is not of such a texture as in the meantime to change its nature; though smaller, it is still a cancer; though feebler, it is as malignant as ever. It is not like the vascular tumour, called anasto- mosing aneurism, which may have the vessels which formed it obliterated, before a fresh supply to the former degree could take place. The plan has been tried, and with the result which might be anticipated: temporary diminution of the tumour, and a subsequent augmentation, attended by all the horrors of cancer. Another proposal will be to change the action of the part; and this is the desideratum, indeed the only rational hope that can be held out, of a cure by medical treatment. Let us find out some medicine that will act on the cancerous