?'0 disease ; and in some cases, where the convex or upper surface is affected, the symptoms bear a strong resemblance to pneu- monia. It is little better than speculation to talk of the sharper pain marking inflammation of the surface, and the more obtuse, that of the substance of the liver. The pain of the shoulder is easily explained by the connexion of the acro- mial and phrenic nerves. This inflammation may terminate in resolution, or in chronic alteration of structure, or in abscess, which is marked by the usual attendants in the forma- tion of matter, which I am not to notice at present. This may form in any part of the liver, and the external marks are more or less distinct, according to the part. The abscess may either be large and solitary, or there may be many small abscesses. The walls of the cavity are lined with a layer of fibrin, which varies much both in its appearance and consist- ence. The parenchymatous substance around is also found in different conditions; sometimes of a red brown colour, and vas- cular ; in others, particularly if the lining be thin and indis- tinct, it is softish, and also red and flocculent. The exterior surface of the viscus, where the abscess points, is yellow or pale when it is about to burst, and red elsewhere. It may burst into the lungs, or colon, duodenum, or stomach, or into the general cavity of the abdomen, and be next discharged by the umbili- cus, if the pus be not drawn off by tapping. I have never seen this termination except in children, all of whom have recovered. The patient whose case I published more than twenty years ago in the Memoirs of the Medical Society, has ever since enjoyed perfect health. It may also point externally; the skin becomes first cedematous, and the surface prominent, and then red and thin. So far as my individual experience o-oes, I consider this as the most unfavourable of all the ter- minations, and unfortunately it is the one which comes most directly under the superintendence of the surgeon. The testicle when inflamed swells, and often very rapidly. Its coat does not seem to distend so readily, and the tumour is tense and elastic, but not hard, if the tenderness will per- mit of pressure. The epididymis, however, is both hard and painful. The skin of the scrotum is of a dull red colour, and