536 connected with a tumour of, or around, the nerve, or from the effect ol an ulcer of the nerve, or from any other cause, unless we believe that the symptoms are local, that is to say, arise entirely from the state of the injured or affected part, and not from the condition of a higher portion of the trunk, or of the origin of the nerve, an operation can do no good. This leads me to observe, that all the effects I have described as following inflammation of a portion of nerve, may be pro- duced by a cause acting on its origin, or on some part of its trunk remote from the seat of pain, &c. The mere pressure of a gland within the abdomen or pelvis, on one of the nerves coming out from the spine, may produce severe and distant pain. The lodgment of a ball near the spine, or an aneurism of the aorta, may produce exquisite sensibility of the skin over the belly. I remember one case, where, after a gunshot wound and lodgment of a slug near the spine, pressure on the spot caused great pain, but the surgeon could not afterwards dis- cover the substance. The patient complained of great tender- ness along the ribs, and over the opposite region. Direct pressure there gave little pain, but if the opposite side were pressed so as to make the viscera go toward the sensible side, he complained much. But the most excruciating pain was pro- duced by slightly drawing a silk handkerchief across the side, from the spine forward, yet he felt no inconvenience if the motion were reversed. Pain, of the nature of neuralgia, is often productive of increased action of the vessels of the part affected, or, inde- pendent of sensation, the state of the extremities of the nerves act so on the vessels, as to cause redness, and often heat. This is particularly the case in very delicate parts, as for instance, the eye, and, in this, even actual inflammation may be induced. We also find, that when the second branch of the fifth pair of nerves is thus affected, and the gums, or jaws, or tongue, become acutely sensible, swelling may take place. The gums become turgid, and rough like shagreen, and some- times ulcerated. The tongue becomes foul, and swollen, and tender. When the disease depends on the state of the origin of the