207 say, the part shall heal if we merely avoid doing positive mis- chief, although we fail to do actual good. This is especially the case when there is only erythema, which will go off whether we apply cold water or strong spirits, or wrap the part in cotton, or anoint it with salad oil, or bathe it with herring brine. But in the latter, we neither can use the cold nor the stimulating plan to any great degree; for the first, in extensive scaldings, must produce unusual coldness, and the second, in its primary operation at least, so excessive addi- tional excitement, as cannot be otherwise than detrimental. This leads then to a general deduction, and a practice sanc- tioned by experience, that in such cases we must avoid both extremes. Particular parts may doubtless be subjected to the operation of these opposite methods, but the great pro- portion of inflamed surface must be covered with some mild stimulant of a tepid heat, such as vinegar, or the old, but not useless liniment, made by mixing equal parts of lime-water and linseed oil, or, in place of oil, milk may be substituted. A solution of sulphate of zinc, in the proportion of 3i. to ltd. of rose-water, is also often useful, or a liniment made by add- ing to melted lard as much of a mixture of rose-water and acet. lith. as can be combined with it: a black salve prepared by boiling linseed oil and litharge, till it assume a proper con- sistence, also is a good application. A solution of chloride of lime in such strength as not to smart much, has also been recommended, but I know of no superiority it has over the other saline solutions, except in so far as it corrects fetor when that exists, and therefore in this view it is not necessary as a primary application. " y After endeavouring to find out some general rule of prac- tice, founded either on speculation or practice, it will be necessary to remember, that there are particular conditions requiring a peculiarity of treatment. There may, first, then be vesications. Now, it is clear that no application can act on the mere raised cuticle, and therefore in so far as these are concerned, we must attend only to the erythema. But the chief question here is, whether the blisters ought to be broken. Whenever this is done, and the cutis exposed, the