445 decrease in the energy of the part. The same effect may, therefore, be expected, as from the application of heat to a frostbit part. Another circumstance which ought not to be overlooked, is, that this enlargement begins above the ligature, or at the upper part of the limb. It is receiving tbis full and minute supply of blood, when more extreme parts are less perfectly supplied. This upper part is better able to bear increased action than the under. But action, we have seen, is communicable from one part, acting highly, to another acting less. In this way it is that the application of heat to the thigh, when the leg had been greatly sunk in its power by cold, would have a bad effect on the leg, although the application were confined to the thigh. In the same manner this increased action, commencing, we suppose, above the liga- ture, will come, by communicating itself to the parts below, • to induce a degree of excitement in them which they are less able to bear. And if the increase of temperature which follows, be more owing to this communicated excitement, than to the actual enlargement and activity of the branches in that i lower part, the consequences must be destructive. Keeping, then, these circumstances in view, we are naturally led to be cautious in applying artificial heat to the limb, even when ' the temperature is fallen. The most we do is to apply around it a bad conductor of heat, so as not to carry off rapidly the little that is evolved, at the same time, we keep the limb in an easy and horizontal posture, and scrupu- lously avoid every irritation and excitement. When the temperature rises, we carry off the heat more freely. We keep the limb below the ligature lightly covered, or we bathe it occasionally with cool water, whilst above the ligature we ai’e more free in our use of cold. Whei’e the increase of temperature is considei’able, and seems to be kept up or aug- mented by general fever, it will be useful to take away blood from the arm. This is particularly the case where the increase of temperature is accompanied with pain, either in the aneu- rismal tumour, or in the limb. Where nervous trunks pass over, or are intimately connected with the tumour, we find, that from the changes produced by the ligature, pain is more r