oo VO arteries of the extremities. Or a general depressing cause may operate, as, lor instance, bad diet or poisonous substances, as ergot. As the predisposing cause in all these cases is debility, we can conceivre that, to go to such a degree, or increase so rapidly, as to make the part die without previous action, 01 distinct inflammation; and this state has been well described by Hildanus, who says the part dies or mortifies, without pain, swelling, or inflammation, but feels first cold and senseless, and then becomes black and hard, and these changes are often unattended with any alteration in the pulse. The same author, however, describes the effect of inflamma- tion m such habits, and states, that the disease is insidious, as the muscles or deep parts are affected before the skin exhibits any change. A man says he got up in the morning, but could not stand in consequence of violent burning pain in his foot, yet it felt cold, and nothing could be seen to account for the pain. But presently it became black or mortified, and he died, notwithstanding an attempt was made to save him by amputation. Mr. Pott describes the same disease, and expressly says, that the pain is severe and burning, but the toes are cold. Presently a black spot appears on one or more of them, which spreads, and the disease extends, and proves fatal. Those cases, which were once supposed to arise from an occult poison, or some unknown cause, are generally found to depend on ossification of the arteries. The low inflammation ending in gangrene, produced bv ergot, is of the same kind, and attended with similar symptoms and effects. Noel says, in the Mem. of the Acad, o ^ ciences for 1710, that about 50 cases were received into the hospital at Orleans. These were all either men, or boys , Slrls* No adult woman was affected. In all, the disease egan in the toes, and sometimes spread to the top of the t ugh, or, notwithstanding amputation, extended itself to the trunc It is evident that in cases where the disease depends on ossification or organic disease, the cure must be difficult it be possible. One general principle must direct us conliX’ t0 rg°T the SJStem hy g°0d diet’ and such ‘ as do not heat or excite too much. Tonics have o