.5 stimuli in due degree, is the production of those actions or operations, which are essential to the well being, and indeed the existence of the animal. How agents, commonly called dead matter, that is not possessed of vitality, can act on the vital principle, and excite it to various operations, and even induce a change of animal organization, is a very curious, as well as intricate speculation, into which I do not mean at present to enter, but which would not be unimportant, if we only looked at the difference between the effect of a drop of prussic acid, and the moderate application of the stimulus of heat. The property of being acted on by a stimulus is sus- ceptibility, or others call it excitability. This is not to be confounded with sensibility, which is a branch of susceptibility, peculiar to the sentient system strictly so called, nor with irri- tability which is also a different property. In the performance of this action, all the different parts of the frame sympathize more or less, but in health this is little attended to, and is not very perceptible. It is more strongly exhibited in disordered conditions. Sympathy may be exhi- bited under the three following modes. First, Sympathy of communication, or what has been called continuous sympathy, where action spreads both in kind and degree, to and from a part. It is the cause of much mischief, as well as of much good. In the progress of this work, it will be seen, that on the one hand, it may, in weakened parts become a cause of inflammation, and on the other, may become the cause of returning health to a part, the healthy or natural state of acting, being recommunicated from its neighbourhood, to that part. An organ also derives support or power from its vicinity, but action is much more readily, and more frequently communicated than power or energy. Second, Sympathy of association, by which distant organs act simultaneously, and in a similar manner. This is more peculiarly the case with some organs than with others, con- stituting a particular sympathy. There is also a general sympathy between the outer and inner ‘parts of the body, and this association is chiefly seen, when an action is rapidly