7 These sympathies are not however invariable and uni- form in their exhibition. They hold true, particularly in so far as the second and third are concerned, not merely as to action, but also as to sensibility and sensation, and a knowledge of the effects is of great importance in disease. For instance, apply a sinapism or any rapid stimulus to the scalp, in deep-seated inflammation, and the disease is rendered worse, whilst a blister would give relief. On the other hand, apply such a stimulus in the torpid state, following an epileptic fit, and the patient rapidly recovers. Apply caustic to the spine, in an excited state of the spinal cord, and the patient is ruined; apply it in a subsequent stage when the cord is less sensible, and, perhaps, even during its painful action, the limbs which had been nearly paralytic, can be moved. The doctrine of sympathy is not only applicable to the state of health, but is still more so to that of disease. Sympa- thy is a cause of the extension of disease, but it is also a cause of recovery, for, as by the sympathy of communication, the disordered action may spread, so, on the other hand, as I have already mentioned, by the reflux, as it were, of healthy action from a part not involved in the disease, the disordered organ is improved, and a natural cure as it is called is ob- tained, partly on this principle, and partly from some actions, and degree of action, becoming feebler by continuance, if the organization be not destroyed. Many inflammations resist at first our remedies, or at the most are only kept from becoming worse; then almost spontaneously they subside, or may appear to yield to applications, although perhaps nature was of more service than the remedy. It is of great importance then in medicine, to attend to how much may be gained by mere palliation. This beneficial effect of sympathy, however, is limited; for some organizations, and corresponding actions, when once induced, cannot be changed or destroyed, and bid defiance to this principle. It is chiefly when action is so little different from the natural one, in its essential qualities, or is so limited in degree, as not to induce any decided alteration of organization, that we may hope for what is called a natural cure, effected on the principle