50 that the swelling of the abdomen is at first from this fluid existing in a state of vapour, and distending it, but this is not proved. The fluid is serous, with flocculi of whitish coloured fibrin; and in intense diseases, the fluid, which in general is of a whey colour, or even somewhat white, is quite red, perhaps dark like venous blood. In many places, exudations of fibrin take place from the surface, and remain adherent to it, forming Avhat has been called false membranes, which either cover the folds of intestines, or are found partially between them. If these be removed, the surface is found to be red and mottled. When the folds are in contact with one another, this exudation is generally very thin, or altogether wanting, the surfaces adhering slightly but directly to one another, and, when unfolded, the redness is generally greatest there. If the general serous effusion be not rapid, and the parietal peritonaeum be inflamed, the intestines may be found adhering to the parietes of the abdomen. We also find, that where the inflammation is very slight, fibrin may be effused, for in many places, if the layer be raised from the intestine, the peritonaeum below it is scarcely, it at all altered. The mucous coat very often retains its pale appearance, and exhibits no mark of inflammation ; but the nfuscular coat is more apt to participate, and cease to act correctly. It either becomes contracted in some part, or extensively has its con- tractility impaired, so that the faeces cannot be propelled. In more chronic cases, tubercles form between the peritoneal and muscular coats, or depositions of fibrin, more or less thick, take place, which diminish the calibre of the canal. The peritonaeum loses its clearness by inflammation, and becomes duller and softer. In some cases, where the disease has been rather tedious, the vascularity of the peritonaeum is less appa- rent, particularly some time after death. It is easily separated or peeled off from a layer of fibrinous effusion between it and the muscular coat, which has in more chronic cases its fibres rendered whiter. The pain is in general sharp, of the burning kind, and liable to great exacerbation like tormina; and when the parietal peritonaeum is involved, the pain, though sometimes dull, and