363 from a healthy gland. It is of a greyish colour, varying somewhat towards ash or yellow in different cases. It is more like firm albumen or coagulable lymph, and less like gland, according to the duration, if we do not go beyond a certain limit. It has not the gristly look of cancer, neither has it cysts and septa; but such cysts do occasionally form in other textures, particularly the secreting glands, yet even there they are very indistinct. It looks as if the glandular texture were partly obliterated, and partly infiltrated with firm coloured albumen. Presently the swelling increases a little, and becomes in so far slacker and softer, as to feel doughy; and if cut into at this stage, portions of curdy substance are found interspersed through different parts of the tumour. Soon after this the tumour extends a little more laterally, and also becomes rather more prominent, forming often, but not always, a little more adhesion to the surface. Then the most prominent part becomes softer; the hard elasticity of the first stage is lost, and the feeling is that of fluctuation com- bined with some degree of elasticity. A firm hard stool, or base and margin, can be felt below and around this. The skin becomes slightly tinged with a red colour, not bright, but inclining to purple. If at this time a puncture be made, either no matter or very little is discharged. The lips of the wound inflame and open, displaying at length a sloughy looking substance within, and between which and the surface a probe can sometimes be introduced for some way. In a more advanced stage, the tumour is quite soft, rather flaccid, and fluctuates freely; the skin becomes of a light purple colour, and small veins ramify over it; then the skin at one part becomes thinner, and generally of a darker colour. This bursts, and there is discharged a fluid like whey, mixed with thick white flocculi. The tumour does not entirely subside, but a considerable hardness remains at the base and round the margin. In some instances, after a time, the abscess closes up, and the hardness is absorbed; but in many other cases the aperture enlarges by a process resembling that of the suppurative sore, so that there is at last produced an open ulcer, flhe surface of this is of a pale red colour; the gra-