9 spasmodic action of muscular fibres, &c. Some organs are only more enlarged or developed by exercise ol function, as the mammas, testes of birds, &c. Organization and the phenomena of life are intimately connected, but often the change of the former, by the variation of the latter, cannot be detected by the eye. The texture of one animal is often not visibly different from that of another, and yet there is a great difference of nature or constitution. The organization of an animal in perfect health, and of the same animal in a state of disease, can seldom be ascertained, by the nicest inspection, to be different. The fatal effect of new actions is also sometimes produced so rapidly, that there is no time for change of organization appearing, even locally, where we would most readily meet with it. It must also be remembered, that many agents may kill quickly, not so much from the quality of the action, as from their immediately destroying the functions of a vital organ. It is consistent with reason, and confirmed by experience, that an excitation or other affection of the origin of a nerve, or of the medulla, whence it arises, should affect the extremity of that nerve, or its distribution, and produce changes or phenomena corresponding to the cause. It is no less certain, that affections of the extremities of a nerve, can influence its origin, and may produce either excita- tion or torpor, or peculiarity of action. It is also evident, the effect may not be confined to the very origin of the nerve itself, but may extend some way farther along the medulla, and thus involve nerves coming off near it, and croino- to other and distant parts. It is also highly probable, that different phenomena of life exhibited in a part, are dependant on different and distinct portions of nerves, going either separately to that part, or going connected together in one trunk. Many of these, are probably accompanied by corresponding affections of the circulation, but it is not perhaps necessary that these should be so in every case. If we irritate the foot of a frog, the circulation is excited in the iliac artery and aorta, and, likely.