440 said, in some cases, be more desirable, whilst in others, and these the most numerous, they are rather to be avoided. It has been conceived that small ligatures cut the vessel, and come away too soon, or that they have not strength to resist the force of the blood. Still we find some who, in the per- formance of an amputation, would be afraid to tie the femo- ral artery with a flaxen ligature, if it did not possess the strength, I wont say the size, of a cable; and yet they would not scruple perhaps to tie the same vessel with a single silk thread. Now, the immediate action of a single thread of silk, or flax, if they are of the same size, must be exactly the same, in cutting or injuring the artery ; and I will venture to affirm, that, if one silk thread can resist the force of the blood, a well waxed flax thread can do the same. When we, therefore, use a ligature, consisting of more than one thread, we must do so from a speculation, resting not on its stiength, but on its action on living parts. Some have carried their fears and speculations so far, as to interpose between the liga- ture and the artery, a bit of cloth or plaster, or the ban el of a quill. But if our object be to avoid all unnecessary irri- tation, all extensive detachment of the vessel, and particularly if we look for security and the speedy production of adhesion in and around the artery, we shall abandon every bulky extra- neous substance. On the same principle, therefore, the liga- ture of reserve, as it is called, must likewise be given up. This is a second ligature left loose on the artery, to be tied if the first fail, that is to say, it is a little seton, left to injure and excite the detached vessel. The fabric of the ligatuie has of late been attended to more than formerly, and as its ends must act as extraneous substances in the wound, it has been proposed, and it is very usually practised, to cut off one of them near the knot, so as to have just one half of the bulk. But this, although harmless, and even useful on speculation, is really of less practical advantage than some suppose, for the single thread scarcely makes a smaller tract or sinus in the wound than the double, as the quantity of pus yielded, and the caliber or extent of the secreting surface, is not neces- sarily correspondent to the precise thickness of the tlnead.