39 pelas, some parts are filled with fibrin, so as to form flat masses of induration, particularly when the skin is naturally lax. In some cases there is great effusion of fibrin and albumen into the cellular substance, with very little redness of the surface. This is exemplified in the prepuce, causing phymosis and paraphymosis. It has been called an cedematous inflammation, but the effusion must not, from that term, be considered as anasarcous; no impression is made on the swelling by puncture. When the cuticle, in cutaneous inflam- mation, is removed, the skin below is observed to be red and tumid, and from the exhalents, thin albumenous fluid is discharged. Then a pellicle forms apparently of coagu- lated albumen mixed with fibrin. The discharge becomes sero-purulent, and presently cuticle is formed in place of this soft pellicle. Let us apply the same causes to cellular substance, and we have the effects already described pro- duced; we therefore infer that the difference depends on the texture, not on any peculiarity in the nature of the inflam- mation. If the inflammation be more violent, it penetrates deeper, and not only the corium, but subcutaneous texture is affected. The true skin thickens, becomes softer, more vascular, and also more easily torn. Its areolrn contain no fatty matter, but sometimes are so impregnated with blood, that it seems almost of a different texture: if exposed to air and moisture after death, it becomes sooner decomposed than sound skin. In violent degrees, as for instance, from burns by flame, the corium is in a manner destroyed in its texture, and rendered hard, differing from dried dead skin, only in being thicker. This can hardly indeed be called cutaneous inflammation, for the skin sloughs, and leaves the cellular texture below exposed. To return to the cutaneous inflammation, I observe, that, unless in the slightest degree, the subcutaneous texture so far participates, as to be filled with serous, or albumenous fluid mixed with blood, which gives a general fulness to the part, and sometimes from the stretch- ing of the corium there is considerable tumour and elasticity. 1 he vessels, at least the larger branches, are filled with fluid blood; for, on cutting into the part, or making scarifications, a