Scarpa, on the other hand, strongly contends that there is always a rupture or laceration, of the internal and middle coat, and illustrates his opinion by experiments made a hundred years ago by Dr. Nicholls. The blood is prevented from escaping by the rent into the adjoining parts, by the outer or cellular coat, which becomes expanded or dilated into a sac, and he strengthens his opinion, by remarking, that the sac or tumour never comprehends the whole circumference of the artery, but is limited to a portion, or forms a chamber attached to it. In many instances, however, we find a portion of an artery, for instance, of the aorta, greatly enlarged, or the main trunk of a limb may be dilated to double the size. 1 his is con- sidered not to be aneurismal, but is called a simple dilatation of the artery, and is recognised by the whole circumference being dilated. The admission of this fact, which no one denies, is, however, virtually to admit, that there may be two species of true aneurism, unless we so define aneurism as to exclude this case of dilatation ; and I am inclined to do so, as there does not seem to be necessarily any change of texture or obvious disease in the coats. It has, however, been supposed, that this dilatation may lead to rupture of the coats, and often produces it, but this, I believe, never happens unless the dila- tation have depended on previous disease, or be productive of change of texture. As a general rule, I would say, that aneurism always is preceded°by a disease of the coats, usually dependant on pre- vious inflammation, acute or chronic. The change, indeed, is not uniformly the same. In some cases, the coats, particu- larly the internal and middle ones, are converted into a layer of yellow dense substance, improperly called steatomatous. This conversion, however, is circumscribed, patches appear- ing here and there, but in a few cases the whole circumference is thus changed. Earthy substance may also be deposited either in patches, or as a more complete cylinder, and this state is not very correctly called ossification. Various shades between these two depositions, the earthy and the softer, are met with, and changes may also take place, with little or no adventi- tious deposite. Suppuration, for instance, may take place in