75 coat of the artery, we cannot expect to find the internal coat arborescent in inflammation. Even when the artery has been surrounded with a ligature, or solution of salt applied to it, and the parts in which it is imbedded, I have found the inside of the vessels colourless, and no vessel discernible with the microscope. If, however, the whole texture have been inflamed, this has a red colour, partly from infiltration of bloody fluid, partly from the highly injected state of the vessels on its outer surface, which are well seen, as long as the inner coat is thin. It is also increased by being stained with blood, or clot con- tained in the canal. The coat soon loses its polish, becomes somewhat villous, and is more or less thickened, and very early is covered with a lymphatic exudation, or the whole canal is filled with it. On removing this, the surface is found to be red, but the vessels are really behind the coat. In general, it is more easily separable from the middle coat than in health. The prominent characters of inflammation of this coat are thickening, softening, redness, and lymphatic exuda- tion. The middle coat likewise becomes thicker, softer, more cellular, and of a reddish yellow colour. The outer coat has the greatest number of vessels, is very red, and consider- ably swelled. The whole arterial substance is softer, more easily torn, and does not bear the ligature. The inflamma- tion is sometimes very limited; in other cases, it extends along the vessel either upward or downward, and is often best recognized by the state of the internal coat; and, indeed, there is much less tendency in the inflammation to extend outwardly, and involve the surrounding substance, than in veins. In slight cases, resolution seems to take place with- out obliteration of the canal. In more severe degrees a thick coating of fibrin and albumen is thrown out, and the canal is often quite and permanently closed, or the crimson coloured surface may be spotted with patches of lymph. In worse cases, pus is secreted, and is infiltrated into the texture of the artery, or confined in little abscesses around the vessel, or it may be secreted from the inner surface, and be lodged in the canal, filling it to a considerable extent. This retention may take place from the artery losing its elasticity, and ceasing to