397 CHAP. VIII. OF HAEMORRHAGE AND WOUNDED ARTERIES. The direct or immediate consequence of loss of blood is weak- ness, or absolute syncope, which may be fatal. The heart and arteries act feebly, but the pulse is not rendered more frequent. There is singing in the ears, and soon loss of consciousness, and this is often attended with convulsions. If death do not speedily take place, it is usual for the patient to remain a short time in a state of apparent sleep or insensibility, and then to waken as if from a dream, and talk incoherently. The surface becomes pale, and the extremities cold. The stomach also suffers, and it is very usual for the patient to become sick and vomit; all these effects may sometimes be witnessed as follow- ing the operation of venesection. If much blood have been lost, it is evident, that as the vessels cannot be empty, they must during life contract, so as to accommodate themselves to the diminished quantity of their contents. This is a plain, but a most important effect. The arteries have a greater power of contracting than the veins, and therefore they are most affected, and the larger veins, at least, contain nearly as much blood as before, neither is there any proof that the heart receives, and transmits less at each dilatation and contraction. Still the venous system, as a whole, must suffer also, and contain less blood than formerly. Certain portions of the system also are depleted with more difficulty than others. This is the case, I believe, with the vessels of the lungs and abdominal viscera, but particularly of the brain and spinal marrow, which cannot be, by the division of any vessel, emptied. In all animals bled to death, there will be found to be more blood within the cranium, in proportion, than elsewhere, and more venous than arterial blood. It is partly to the actual subduction of the necessary stimulus of blood from the brain, and partly to the unequal and altered distribution of blood in the brain and spinal marrow or their involucra, that we are to attribute the convulsions which sometimes take place in great