) Although an inflamed part be often hard to the touch, yet hardness forms no part of the essential character of inflamma- tion. It depends greatly on the rapidity and extent of the effusion of blood or fibrin, and the modifications of the last, on the texture of the part, and whether it be confined within a capsule. It may also come on as a remote consequence. Softening of the texture, particularly of the cellular substance, is a general consequence of inflammation, if it continue above a day or two. SECTION SECOND. Inflammation may begin in one texture, or in the whole substance of an organ, according to the nature and extent of the exciting cause. It is more apt to travel along the texture originally affected, than to affect others to the same degree, but it is quite an error to suppose that these are exempted; for they all sooner or later participate, and earlier and more strongly, if the exciting cause shall have influenced them at first, though not to the extent of producing inflam- mation. The cellular substance is most frequently affected, and being very extensive, inflammation may spread deeply and widely, and either involve the muscles, &c. or not, according to the nature and potency of the cause. Some- times the muscles and great vessels are in a manner insulated, but this is oftener the case in spreading suppurations than in extended inflammations. If the action have been irreffu- O larly affected, and the inflammation have penetrated deeply, the disease shall often be found to have spread farther in the skin, than in the muscles, a fact of some importance in those cases where, in consequence of mortification, amputation may be required. By means of cellular substance, inflammation is often propagated, or if membranous connexions exist, it may spread along them. Thus, if the umbilical veins inflame, we may have inflammation extending along the peritonaeal coat of the liver or bowels, there being an intimate adhesion of the peritonaeum"to the vein. If the uterus be inflamed, disease may spread from its outer coat to the rest of the peritonaeum, or if the veins be inflamed, there may be an extension of the