states, the strength of the sinapism was the same, but the sen- sation increased with the increased sensibility consequent to prolonged excitation. Second, by causes acting on the ex- tremities of nerves not sentient, and which, therefore, do not produce sensation there; but by the excitement communicated to the origin of these nerves, may, as noticed at page 6th, affect the sentient nerves coming off near them, and render them more sensible; and what is true with respect to sensi- bility, is equally so as to susceptibility. Hence, irritation or excitation of branches of the sympathetic nerve, or of the par vagum, may increase both sensibility and susceptibility of action, and render ordinary stimuli productive of very uncom- fortable effects. Hence, also, we may explain the benefit to be derived, in many cases, by medicines which act on the liver, or evacuate irritating feces or worms, although these produced no sensation. Third, by excitement of the origin, or trunk of a nerve; for instance, by slight pressure, the presence of a foreign body, &c. the extremity may be exquisitely painful if slightly touched, as, for example, in tic douloureux. Parts may be exquisitely sensible in two different states, the one where the organization is apparently sound, the other where there is a tumour or diseased structure. The first, which is generally termed neuralgia, usually depends on some improper condition of the origin or trunk of the nerve. The testicle is sometimes thus affected; but still more fre- quently, the female breast is so sensible that slight pressuie produces acute and prolonged pain, and even without any such cause the part may be painful. Correcting the function of menstruation where that is faulty, regulating the action of the stomach and bowels, and using means for improving the o-eneral health, aid the cure, by lessening or removing that condition of the origin or trunk of the nerves which causes the sensibility. But often we find it necessary to apply a blister to the spine, between the shoulders, and keep it open for some time, which I have known produce a speedy and permanent cure. Anodyne applications to the part are also worth trying, but cannot be depended on. The second state is connected with a local change, generally with tumour, and