19 hence, inflammations of the viscera are, setting other causes aside, dangerous, and that in proportion to the sympathy they exert, and quite independent of the remote consequence of loss of function. In ordinary language, a part or system is said to be weak, which is unable to perform or sustain any considerable degree of action, and very often there is a mistake made in con- founding susceptibility with debility. A part may perform perfectly, and in a full degree its healthy action, and yet may be very l’eadily excited to disordered action by stimuli, and when so disordered, may remain long in that state, or sink soon under it. Now this may be the case in persons who have a full proportion of muscular strength, or who look well, and enjoy good health. They are not weak, and yet are unable to resist or sustain disease. Weakness may depend on diminished quantity of vital principle, if we may be allowed to speculate on what we know so little of, but much oftener is connected with, and dependant on the state of action, and the influence of sympathies. T. here are different kinds of weakness considered in relation to disease, or to any action. First, Primary or antecedent weakness, induced by priva- tions or evacuations, or perhaps original feebleness of consti- tution. In this case, there is the simplest form of debility or diminution of power, and consequently of ability to sustain action. But this simple and pure debility is rarely if ever met with, for there is speedily produced, by the very causes of debility, a new' or unnatural state, often of an excited kind. Haemorrhage, which we should choose as an example of a pure debilitating cause, does ultimately induce an irritated or excited state of the vessels. Abstinence not only -weakens, but by sensation excites disordered action of the stomach. The debility of age is seldom pure, it is complicated with the effects of torpor of the nervous system, languor of the circulation, ossification of arteries, and often change of texture in various organs. This kind of debility renders an injury more dangerous, productive of a greater shock, and less