40 very ^iee discharge takes place, and the texture is observed to be red. Wherever the superficial redness extends, this effusion also extends, and it is contained in the cells of the texture. It is a species of inflammatory oedema, the effusion being dependant on an excited state of the vessels, or in higher degrees, on a slight degree of inflammation being com- municated to the cellular texture, which may suffer in different ways, according to the causes, and the state of the constitution. It may be healthy, and acutely inflamed, in which case there is effusion of fibrin, and harder swelling, with more circum- scribed suppuration; or it may be unhealthy, especially from the state of the nervous system, induced by that of the diges- tive viscera, which may prove both a cause and a modifier of action, and in that case, it may be affected with gangrene, or low inflammation. But it is also quite possible for the sub- cutaneous cellular substance to be so far affected in its action, and in its power, by the state of the skin itself, as to furnish serous effusion with very little actual inflammation; and it is in the same way, capable of being weakened by the state of the skin, and of sinking or dying under a very slight degree of inflammation, considered absolutely. This is particularly the case, when the cutaneous disease has been produced by, or is intimately connected with a disordered state of the alimentary organs. It may also occur when the cutis has been suddenly and violently inflamed, as in a burn. We may have not only sero-purulent fluid effused into the cells, but even mortification or immediate death of the texture under the corium. Inflammation of the cellular substance, producing phleg- mon, causes very soon redness, and sensibility of the surface, such as occurs in a primary inflammation of the surface, and it may also penetrate, so as to cause inflammation of the fascia below. In like manner, inflammation of the cutaneous surface may be communicated to the cellular substance, and thence to the fascia, or from the fascia to those other parts. All of these cases, and to confine our view to the skin, all the various cutaneous inflammations produced by different causes, though in general character similar, yet have each