circulation kept up, no farther impediment can be offered by the ligature, and no fall of temperature can be anticipated. In proportion to the fall, we would be led to expect the increase: for the increase arising from the excited action of the branches, it ought to be proportioned to the obstruction actually occasioned by the ligature itself; and where there had been no fall, showing that there had been little or no circu- lation through the trunk below, previous to the application of the ligature, we should expect no subsequent increase of tem- perature. But this is fallacious, for many cases exist, where the collateral branches are already so prepared, as to carry on the circulation sufficiently well, after the application of the ligature, to prevent any perceptible diminution of temper- ature. But in such cases, the total obstruction of the passage of blood through the main trunk, may cause such an increased determination immediately to the collaterals, even under these circumstances, as shall be productive of increased tempera- ture. The only case in which the temperature shall neither fall nor rise, is that where the collaterals have already increased to their ultimatum, and the direct circulation through the trunk, has been entirely checked. In such a case, the ligature was altogether uncalled for, in a true aneurism, as a natural cure must have well nigh been accomplished. When a ligature is applied on the wounded trunk of an artery, or in the early stage of aneurism, we find, thereafter, all the branches greatly increased, various anastomoses are rendered more distinct, or larsrer, and the whole substance of the limb is rendered more vascular. That is to say, the small branches enlarge, and when minute injection is thrown in, the parts exhibit some- what the appearance of an inflamed texture. We can, therefore, very readily account for the increase of tempera- ture. But there is another circumstance equally important, which we are as able to account for, namely, the induction of gangrene. Where this high and rapid excitement of the collateral branches is produced, and the limb comes to be more minutely injected with blood, we have a dangeious degree of action produced, for in such cases tlieie has been previously a corresponding fall in the temperature, and