175 knows how dangerous a severe wound is, when the patient lias what is called a broken constitution, or has been leading an intemperate life. It is according as the first or second species of irritation prevails, that the erythema or erysipelas has been denominated phlegmonous or bilious. The phlegmonous, as it is called by Fabritius, was also denominated the impure, from supposing that the bile, the reputed cause of erysipelas, was greatly diluted with blood, or the cause of phlegmon. The bilious, again, was called the pure erysipelas, from supposing that it pioceeded more purely from bile. These terms have been brought more into notice by Desault. The phlegmonous, that is, the inflammation unconnected with gastric disor- der is supposed to be characterised by the swelling being more distinct or greater, the colour deeper red, and the hardness more, the pungent pain varied, at intervals, by throbbing sen- sation, the pulse is fuller and harder, but the chief distinction is the absence at first of nausea and other symptoms, indicating a redundancy of bile. The bilious, is distinguished by the swel- ling being less, often trifling, there is painful smarting without throbbing, the colour is red, inclining to yellow, the appetite is early lost, the tongue moist, and somewhat yellow, the taste bitter, the eye yellowish, and the strength is soon impaired, and the spirits dejected. The skin is hot, but not very dry. Now it is evident, that, if in practice, we attempt hom this description to form the diagnosis, we must chiefly select the indication of gastric disorder; but it is a nov\n fact, that any considerable local disease soon affects the stomach, aijd therefore granting these marks to be as dis- criminative at first, as Desault himself could have imagined, jet they can be of little service in the progress, and can only meiit attention as diagnostic, in the commencement. Indeed, Desault admits, that by venesection, the first soon changes into the second species. Still, if these symptoms be peculiar at first to the different species, they must be useful in forming , J/ldSment; but this again will hinge on the question, W let ler tlie difference depends on the biliary secretion, or