55 being lodged in an inflamed texture ? The answer will depend much on the strictness of our definition ; but I am much inclined to dispute the doctrine that the secretion depends on inflammation of the apparatus itself. The follicles and glands are in a state of morbid excitation, by the surrounding inflammation, as they should be by the application of oil of turpentine. They are more vascular, as they always must be, in a degree proportioned to their activity, but they long resist the state of actual inflammation. Let us take the coat of the intestine for an example. We find its mucous frame or chorium, as it has been called, inflamed and red> and softened, and thickened, and perhaps extra- vasated. The follicles are highly vascular and more pro- minent, but they yield merely an increased quantity of mucus, just as they would do by the application of pepper, or the irritation of a hard substance; and when the ground- work or layer in which they are lodged is abraded or greatly destroyed, they for a time resist, and remain distinct, perhaps insulated. If the inflammation go higher, the glands not only yield more mucus, but that is changed, and becomes of a purulent nature. 1 hey then do participate in the action, and are not merely excited by the state of the coat in which they are lodged. Possessed of a particular function that may be changed or suspended altogether on the same principle as the peculiar characters of other organs, as for instance muscles, are altered. But even when inflamed, they are not affected to the same degree as the rest of the texture, so that whilst the mucous coat is destroyed, they remain still organized. It is only in the highest degree that they participate in the common rum. If I be right then in this view, there are two states of an inflamed mucous membrane; one in which the follicles are merely excited, and another in which they are inflamed in a mode peculiar to their character. But we also find that this membrane, in a state of inflammation may, and often does exhibit characters belonging to other parts of which it consists. In the intestines, for example, the villi, which are both absorbent and exhalent organs, may yield an increased quantity of serum, or, together with the surface of the mem-