adjoining to it, and we shall be satisfied that the diagnosis is more easily made in the library than in the sick-room. The case may indeed be well marked, and we may even have pain and throbbing of the carotid arteries, or arteria innominata, but it may also be doubtful; and our opinion comes to be formed more on probability than certainty. When arteritis is more extensive, and affects the vessels of the extremities, it may be supposed that we should at once detect it by the course of the pain, and by the tenderness of the tract of the artery when pressed on. But mere muscular, or aponeurotic inflam- mation, may sometimes present nearly the same symptoms. Those who describe arteritis sometimes enumerate amongst its marks some which can only be met with when particular parts of the arterial system are inflamed, such as palpitation, lancinating and hot pain in the thorax or abdomen, cough, difficulty of breathing, &c. Violent, and what has been called tumultuous action of the arteries, or universal throbbing, does not appear to be a necessary attendant on the disease, nor exclusively an indication of its existence. But whatever may be the doubt as to the precise nature of the disease, we have sufficient indications as to the practice. For although the local pain may be obscure, yet often, and almost always when the aorta is affected, it is sharp and distinct. It is of little use to enter into speculation respecting the sensibility of arteries; for we know, that even if it were established that their proper substance was insensible in health, yet their cellulai coat and connexion must be admitted to be sensible, and when inflamed, not only is the artery painful, but the neigh- bouring parts, as, for instance, the mediastinum, pleura, peri- tonaeum, &c. do suffer. In such cases of inflammation, we do not require to settle, first of all, whether the disease be seated in the artery or the viscus beside it, or in the membrane con- necting that viscus and the artery. We have pain in the thorax, difficulty of breathing, cough, perhaps bloody expec- toration, palpitation, &c., or we have constant pain in the back and loins, extending possibly to the groin, and aggra- vated on pressure, and complicated with tenderness of the belly, or nephritic affection, &c. Surely, in such circum-