wine. Any article of the former, or any quantity however small of the latter, which excites the diseased texture, must he improper. The effect of increased activity in the vascular system, is well seen by the increased redness and activity of some superficial diseases of this kind, as, for instance, on the eyeball, which occurs at the menstrual period. I have already noticed the effect of mercury on this state of inflammation, and the propriety of cautiously employing it, so long as it did not produce injurious excitement, but rather allayed the inflammatory action. Some topical applications which con- stringe the vessels, or promote absorption, as well as tend to alter the existing action, are useful, when they can be applied, as, for example, camphorated spirit of wine; or to parts of a delicate sensibility, as the eye, vinurn opii, weak solution of nitrate of silver, or ointment containing nitro-mercurial salts, &c. When the sensibility of the part or its situation will permit, gentle pressure, friction oi’ percussion, have been found useful. They are most serviceable when pain and stiffness are prominent symptoms, and their first benefit, when they are to cure, appears in the mitigation of the pain. I must not quit the subject of inflammatio valida, without noticing the modification which we meet with, when the disease attacks mucous membranes. The appearance ex- hibited by these membranes under inflammation has been described when treating of the modifications arising from tex- ture ; and therefore, I need do little more now than state, before speaking of the treatment, that inflammation may act on the secreting apparatus in two ways. It may, it originally seated chiefly in the texture in which the glands or follicles are situated, act as an excitant to them, as any stimulant or acrid substance should have done, and thereby increase, as well as change or modify, the secretion. In another way, and perhaps a different or more extensive degree, the action may simultaneously take place in the follicles and the general texture, and the secretion may be either suspended or altered, and perhaps increased. It is no unusual thing to find one part of the mucous membrane secreting mucus or muco- purulent matter, and another excreting fibrin, which forms a