nulations are flabby and indistinct; the general aspect is peculiar, and cannot well be described, otherwise, than by saying, that it is glossy, but not fiery. The discharge, which is copious, is usually thin, serous, or very slightly ropy, with curdy looking flakes; the margins are smooth, obtuse, and overlapping, of a purple colour, and rather hard and tumid. When this ulcer has continued for some time, it either begins slowly to cicatrize, or more frequently the discharge dimi- nishes, and becomes thicker, then hardens into an elevated scab, of a dirty white or yellowish colour; this falls off occa- sionally, exposing still an ulcer, but diminishing in size; it then remains on longer', and when it crumbles off, leaves the part covered with a smooth purple cicatrix, very frequently considerably depressed, or drawn down at the centre. By lapse of time the purple colour goes offj and the cicatrix becomes either of a light pink or dull white colour. When there have been many ulcers, the scars are not only numerous and irre- gular, but there is also considerable puckering of the skin. The struma maligna is marked by more hardness and inequality of the tumour; the pain is partly pulsatory, and partly gnawing; the veins in the immediate neighbourhood enlarge. But these characters are not essential, for the dis- ease may commence in the more ordinary, and then assume the malignant form; it is principally to the chaiactei of the sore that we are to look. 1 his is seldom, if ever, an ulcei ; it is a suppurating sore; the surface is dark colouied and fiery; the margins are soft, elevated, sharp, and sometimes retoited, the surrounding skin is inflamed, the discharge is watery, and the pain very considerable. In many instances, this state of the sore, depends on circumstances, which may be called adventitious, for instance, a disease of the bone below. Hence it is frequent over the smaller joints, particularly the toes, but we also meet with it where no bone is affected, in the glands of the neck, for example. & Scrofula may be viewed in two lights, first, as a peculiar constitution; and, secondly, as that constitution modifies various actions, natural or acquired. Or, in other words, we may consider it either as a diathesis, or as exhibiting the pe-