51 \ chiefly felt on motion or pressure, may be sharp like a stitch. Mortification is a frequent termination. Redness ol the intestine from congestion, or from its bein«- imbued with blood, may be mistaken for inflammation, as the deep dark colour produced by engorgement of the veins and extravasation, may pass for gangrene. This is of import- ance, not only in the practice of physic, but in the treatment of hernia. In the latter case, we often find the intestine very dark, and yet not otherwise diseased; and in the former, every one knows that folds of the intestine are found red on dissection, although no abdominal disease existed. The colour is found evidently, in this case, to proceed from mere pene- tiation, and no increased number of vessels is observed on the peritonaeum, or if there be, they are small veins which have become turgid, and the texture is found to be natural. In the other case, where obstruction has existed, as for instance, in impacted or incarcerated hernia, the diagnosis during the operation is more difficult. The colour is never black, but a dark brown red, sometimes a deep purple like port wine ; the vessels, particularly the small veins, are seen to be very nume- rous and ramiform; and when the colour does not proceed from branches, there is infiltration of red serum ; the surface is apparently sound, clear, and smooth, though of a deep colour; the texture, so far as we may with prudence examine it, is rm: on the other hand, when inflammation has gone on to such an extent as to border upon gangrene, the colour is not only blacker, but the organization is more evidently destroyed and there is often distinct effusion of blood in a decomposed state under the peritoneum. The intestine is flaccid, and its external coat is easily detached, or separates, merely, by beino- handled. The substance of the intestine is thickened, and sometimes has even a gorged or hepatized appearance, and a foetid smell is emitted. When the omentum is inflamed, it becomes exceedingly 'ascii ar, and fibrin is deposited between its folds, so that his much thickened, and in hernia several plaits of it adhere and may form a solid tumour. ’ * A still more dangerous inflammation of a serous membrane