506 organs, and an extensive train of sympathies may be produced. We cannot, however, hold all these effects which I have alluded to, as constituting the state of irritation. They follow from it, but are not, properly speaking, peculiar to it, for they are met with in other species of excitation and increased sen- sation, and their degree and nature are much modified in par- ticular cases by the part of the medulla spinalis, or oblongata, specially connected with the nerves of the organ affected, and also by peculiarity of constitution. When the part originally irritated is peculiarly delicate, there may, very soon after the feeling of general irritation, in the strict sense, or almost as early as it, be a febrile attack. This, in susceptible people, may be the effect of a grain of sand in the eye. A stricture in the urethra, if excited by any cause, or irritated by a bougie, sometimes produces, from sympathy with the stomach, sickness and faintness, sometimes general irritation, followed by different local sympathies, sometimes a violent attack of fever, like an ague fit. But only some of these effects consti- tute irritation, though produced by it, or combined with it. The irritation of worms in the bowels, or offensive and indur- ated stools, in like manner, may cause a prolonged fever. Irritation may take place very early from wounds or acci- dents, supervening almost immediately on their infliction. It mav also be delayed till the period of suppuration. In either case, it is dependant on some cause, which, for the time, pre- vents the commencement, or the progress, of a healing process. No healing, or, if the expression be con'ect, healthy wound, is attended with irritation. When there is teasing sensation, scarcely amounting to actual pain, then we have irritation ; but some part of the wound is not adhering and healing promptly. Irritation is not indeed an indication of an incur- able state, but only that the part is not healing. We never find a healthy or granulating ulcer irritable; but suppurating sores are frequently so. Different causes may produce irritation. First, the pre- sence of a foreign body, which occasions more or less, accord- ing to its size, asperity, and qualities, as well as the irritabi- lity of the part acted on. A grain of sand in the eye, a