be produced, if it were applied to a part already inflamed. What should be the effect of applying turpentine as a dress- ing on removing a common blister, if the cuticle were peeled oft ? Should it not be frantic agony, followed perhaps by sloughing of the part; and why should not the same effect lesult from it if applied to a part inflamed, blistered, and peeled, after the application of boiling water. Experience is decidedly against the use of turpentine, or any strong stimu- lus, in all cases where the skin is not disorganized, and that whether the extent be great or small, and whether the cuticle be entiie or peeled off. I he strong stimulus of turpentine can only be borne when the skin is partially torrified and nearly insensible. In such cases, when the effect was quickly pro- duced, as by the explosion of gunpowder, or the rapid com- bustion of some piece of dress, the part is little more sensible than an eschar, and sometimes scarcely any pain is felt. In these cases, the part on which applications are to act, being nearly, if not altogether dead, it is not to be expected that any stimulant can give pain, or do good; yet these, perhaps, are the cases most likely to be brought forward in favour of turpentine, for it cannot be endured when the part is sensi- ble, and if it could, it ought, if continued long, to destroy, or almost cauterize the surface. In this extreme degree of tor- rifaction, it is then a negative application, or may be said to do neither good nor harm. But there is an inferior degree, in which whilst the skin is almost killed, it is not altogether destroyed. It is neither acutely sensitive nor devoid of sensi- bility ; and in such cases turpentine may produce no higher effect than should be done in other cases by vinegar, nor does it act as a vesicatory on the half torrified skin. This view, which I believe observation will prove to be correct, will con- fine the use of turpentine within narrow limits, and even within these, its recommendation may be rather of the nega- tive than positive kind. The result, then, of these general observations is, that the treatment of small and of extensive burns, must in some respects be different. In the former, almost any plan may be adopted with safety, whether attended with relief or not,—that is to