369 without any peculiar combination. We can suppose again the system to be equally weakened by various and particular causes, which may, and must produce corresponding modifi- cations. The state of the system produced by failure of ner- vous energy, by bleeding, by abstinence, by cold, by mental anxiety, by indigestion, by colliquative discharges, by unwhole- some food, and many other causes which might be enumerated, although it may be the same in degree, cannot be exactly the same in kind. Various species of debility may give, more readily, a predisposition to particular diseases. With a view to countei’act, or lessen the predisposition to scrofula, we ought, on the one hand, to do all in our power to preserve and improve the general health ; and, on the other, avoid, as far as possible, every cause of disease, more espe- cially of local disease. The first of these objects is to be attempted by a nourishing diet, proper clothing, and regular exercise. With regard to diet, I apprehend that some mistaken notions prevail, for I find many recommending a libera], I might almost say an excessive use of animal food. Now, we know, that a very sparing use of that diet, is quite compatible with health and activity, and that a superabundance produces the very evil that it is meant to correct. That diet is perhaps the most nourishing, which is the most easily digested. The human stomach is intended to digest a mix- ture of animal and vegetable substance ; and although indi- viduals may thrive upon the one, or the other, yet, generally speaking, the best health results from a mixture. The food should be plain, sufficient in quantity to satisfy the appetite, but not superabundant, so as to oppress the stomach. Dressed dishes, salt or dried meat, melted butter, pastry, and sweet- meats, should be avoided, as well as every thing else, which, by experience, is found to disagree with the individual. The vegetable part should always be well boiled; but the animal food should never be too much cooked. In general, roasted will be found lighter than boiled meat; but neither require to be taken above once a day. It is the fashion, I believe, in consultations, to deliver minute rules with regard to diet, and these, in one point of view, may be very proper.