483 being as likely to run in one direction as in another, and being only prevented from going toward the extremity by the valves, must, to the extent of its flow in that direction, impede the return of blood, and may induce an actual enlargement ol the venous branches. This is of more importance in injuries of the neck than elsewhere, as the brain may thus come to suffer; and in order to prevent immediate danger, copious venesection may be required. When, in venesection, the artery at the bend of the arm is is wounded through the vein, the blood flows impetuously, par saltum, and is of a florid colour. But both of these circum- stances may occur, although only the vein be opened. In many cases the blood is florid, as it flows from the vein, and the motion of the artery below may cause it to come in jerks. A moderate pressure, however, above and below the orifice, always stops venous, but not arterial haemorrhage, whilst the latter is increased according to the degree of pressure below the aperture. When the accident happens, the lips of the wound are to be laid accurately together, and a firm, gradu- ated, and sufficiently thick compress is to be placed on it, and retained by a suitable narrow bandage, applied with a sufficient degree of tightness, to restrain completely the bleed- ing. If the tightness require to be considerable, it may be necessary to apply a roller to the hand and forearm, in order to prevent these from swelling, and suffering by what would otherwise act like a local ligature. The arm is to be kept at perfect rest, and the bandage is not to be taken off for some days. If the compress adhere by blood, it is not to be re- moved, but the bandage is to be re-applied, and neither are to be dispensed with till the cicatrix be firm. By this treat- ment the aperture between the artery and the vein has been closed, probably first with a coagulum, and then, as that was absorbed, by organized substance, so that the integrity of the arterial tube has been restored. Even the vein may remain pervious, but more frequently its tube is obliterated at the spot, and forms a solid covering for the artery. If the pres- sure have been great, and have acted powerfully on one part, both artery and vein may be obliterated. But, in general,