381 proved fatal within two days. It has been imagined that the surfaces of such cysts, when irritated, although no bad effects be immediately produced, yet come to throw out a fungus of a malignant nature, ending as fatally as cancer. That this may sometimes be the case, I am not disposed to dispute, but rather, from some circumstances I have witnessed, am willing to admit; nevertheless, it is an event comparatively rare in its occurrence, and dependant on some peculiai'ity in the indivi- dual tumour. But as we cannot, a priori, say of any tumour, that it does not possess such a power, it is an additional argu- ment for avoiding the seton, and all rash irritation of the cyst. Some tumours, however, 1 am persuaded, have had a seton passed through them, in the belief that they contained a fluid, when in truth they were, from the very fii’st, spongoid tumours, which, from their elasticity and other characters, are at first, and especially when small, apt to be mistaken. The late Mr. Dease, in 1781, published an account of a cancerous excre- scence, as he styled it, being produced by passing a seton through a ganglion at the wrist. From the dissection of the patient, there can be no doubt that this supposed ganglion was a spongoid tumour. On the whole, I am disposed to recommend the excision of the tumour, both as the safest, and also as the speediest cure, although at the moment it may be the most painful. In cer- tain cases, however, where the tumours are of small size, and situated in parts where it might be troublesome to dissect them completely out, I have succeeded completely by laying them open, and applying to every point of the surface a solu- tion of caustic so strong as to destroy the cyst, without going any farther. After the thin slough is thrown off’, the part heals. I do not, however, mean to advise the excision of such tumours if very large, and particularly if connected with important parts. In such cases puncturing, or the use of the seton, must be resorted to. r ••