384 extent, as must happen if the wound have been large, that we should have both increased vascular action, and also, more or less sensation, and even increase of temperature. This has led Mr. Hunter to look on adhesion as a species of inflammation, capable of going, possibly, to a formidable degree. That adhesion may follow inflammation, we have already seen, and shall again notice, but that it is in its ordi- nary form a species of inflammation, I cannot admit, lo suppose that it is a distinct and peculiar process, mixed up of inflammation and agglutination, both mutually dependant on each other for their existence, is to confound, in my opinion, all distinction between a mere sequence, and an essential attribute. That adhesion, considered as a process manifested in the direct cure of wounds, is a species of inflam- mation, is nothing better than a mere speculation. Even when accompanied with its highest excitement, and attended with its most vivid and highly marked phenomena, it is not inflammation; as well may we call blushing inflammation, because it is attended by heat and redness,—as well may we call heartburn inflammation, because it is attended by sensa- tion,—as well may we call pregnancy inflammation, because there the uterine vessels enlarge, and deposit new matter. Inflammation is an action, productive of a complete change of the natural condition. It is new in its nature it is con- nected with an altered texture—it is an action of disease, tending rather to disorganization than preservation; a condi- tion which may, indeed, stop short of destruction, but which also may proceed through every degree of change and injury, to utter ruin. The action, on the other hand, attendant on adhesion, is limited in its degree, not merely the most effec- tual enemy to inflammation, but absolutely incompatible with it; a sure and a certain plan for the restoration of the part, and the security of the system. Mr. Hunter, who has certainly the merit of first calling the attention of surgeons, in a decided and scientific way, to what may justly be called the most essential and fundamental principle in their profession, was wrong in the view he took of the subject. He admits two species of union ; one, he 1