1.50 injured part, as, for example, the skin, we find that sometimes two very opposite plqns may prove useful, lhus, when a part -is scalded, we often derive advantage from the imme- diate application of cold water, which lessens the sensation of heat, and alleviates all the symptoms. This is merely by mitigating the sensation, and not as a sedative or diminishei of action. On the other hand, especially if cold have not been immediately used, the application of a slightly smarting stimulus, such as vinegar, will often give relief. A moderate degree of heat may serve the same purpose. Hence wrap- ping the part in cotton wool has been found useful. When distention seems to be a cause of increased pain, removing that allays inflammation. Even when there is no great distention, producing preternatural slackness of the part lessens the morbid action. In periostitis, cutting down to the bone through the detached and distended periosteum, or unbridling the periosteum, as it was called, is of service in this way, as well as by the flow of blood produced by the incision. Evacuating the aqueous humour of the eye is, on this principle, of benefit in many cases of inflammation of that organ. • _ Increasing greatly the action of the skin immediately superjacent will be found in general useful, when a part of a different texture below is inflamed. But it there be any similarity or continuity, by continuation of cutis or serous . membrane, this plan is oftener hurtful than beneficial. On this principle, the application of blisters or issues externally will be found serviceable in inflammation of the joints, bones, pleura, &c. whilst in ophthalmia, a blister applied to the temple may do as much harm ns it would have done good, had it been placed more remote, for instance, on the back of the head. Two remarks may be made on this subject. First, That when, from the cause just mentioned, we find it proper to apply a blister somewhat remote from the inflamed organ, it will require to be comparatively larger than in those cases where we can place it directly over the part, and, ceteris pcm- hus, the deeper that the inflamed part is, the larger will the blister require to be. Second, We ought never to apply