establish. The second is, then, which I would wish to that the affected spot, whether scratch, wound, or sore, is attacked with erysipelatous inflammation extending somewhat beyond the wound or sore. If small, the scratch or wound is soon involved in a vesicle: if larger, the margins are usually surrounded with vesication. The fluid contained is brownish in colour. 1 he vesicle bursts, and the part below is found either of a fiery red or purple colour, presently turning darker ; and at last black, or sometimes ash-coloured sloughs are formed. From the first time the constitution is affected it is even doubtful if the constitutional disorder do not actually precede the local appearance. The appetite ceases, the patient cannot sleep, he has headach sometimes veiy severe, sometimes more dull, accompanied with tight- ness. The tongue becomes slimy or furred; there is thirst, anu often nausea or vomiting. The pulse is frequent, and the skin feels hot. As soon as these symptoms manifest them- selves, the aspect of the sore or wound changes, and it becomes unhealthy. It then swells, the surrounding skin inflames like erysipelas, and there is a strong tendency to vesication. The surface of the ulcer or wound becomes fiery and florid, or pink of a glossy appearance, and discharges thin, perhaps ill-smelled, liquid. The pain is sharp, in some cases burning and intolerable. The fever increases, the mind is unstable or desponding, the stomach more affected, and the stools are foetid. The erysipelatous redness spreads with more or less rapidity, so that although the local disease began in a small spot, the whole foot or hand may be affected in a few hours, or the progress may be slower though not less steady. The surface I have said becomes first fiery and glossy, but soon it assumes quite a different aspect, and either black or ash sloughs are formed. These may cover the surface, or different parts may at the same time be in a state of high fiery gangrenous inflammation, gangrene, and sphacelus. The edges of such a sore are ragged, projecting, and sometimes hard like those of a cancer. They are bare and of a glossy red in some places, in others smeared with adhering stuff, half matter half slough, of a buff colour, whilst the bottom is