I 107 / • cerned in the evolution of heat, as well as those destined for sensation and the other functions of the part, as well as its nutrition and general organization. These again influence the origin of the nerves, not indeed always in the same way, but still in such a way, and to such an extent, as to alter its condition, and produce perhaps extensive influence along the medulla spinalis, &c. This leads, as I have already stated, to the production of general and remote effects, and, amongst others, the establishment of fever. But besides these, it also reacts on the extremities, and such a state once induced will then keep up the action at the extremities, or the local disease; and, therefore, neither the removal of the exciting cause, nor the application of topical remedies, can be depended on for arresting the local inflammation. In this way we also explain the appearance of inflammation in another place, or opposite limb from the one in which it originated, and that even after the first one seems to be ffettintj better. I am therefore led to a Second way, in which an exciting cause may act, namely, not on the part where the disease manifests itself, but on the origins of the nerves which go to it. This is on the principle of the sympathy of association. It is noto- rious, that certain irritations and excitants of the brain and medulla spinalis can produce spasm, pain, &c. in dis- tant parts; nor does there seem any reason to doubt that inflammation itself may be often produced in this way. It is well known to surgeons, that injury of the head may be fol- lowed by inflammation of the liver, ending speedily in abscess. It is equally certain, that many severe inflammations appear without any evident cause, and which can in no other way be so readily explained as by admitting them to arise from a condition of the origin of the nerve, induced either by the operation of some obscure cause acting directly on it or on its vessels, or by the influence of some remote sympathy exerted on it, perhaps cold applied to a distant part, or disorder of the alimentary organs, &c. It is evident, however, that any excitement, or even inflammation itself of the origin of the nerve, may not cause inflammation of the extremities. There are numerous instances of the one existing without the