times later, sometimes with, sometimes without any irritation ot the wound or stump. We may have depressing sickness and vomiting, from affection of the nerves of the stomach, or obstinate hiccup, or swelling of the liver, or affection of the lungs, or dropsy, or phlegmonous, or gangrenous erysipelas of other parts of the body, or tetanus itself. But it is not alone in great and extensive injuries, or after amputation of large extremities, that these changes take place; for after a very slight injury, slight in its extent, and apparently so in its local effects, the very same principle may operate, and serious disease be induced in other organs. At page 107, I have given my opinion as to the possibility of inflammation being produced in a part, not by causes acting directly on that part, but on the origin of the nerves going to it; and I now distinctly repeat, that what may be done by causes applied to, and acting directly on these origins, may also be effected by the state of the extremities of wounded nerves, or those going to inflamed parts, and then the influence extending to other portions of the medulla, may give rise to disease in remote parts, as has been noticed at pages 6 and 9. It is wor- thy of remark, and confirms the doctrine, that when in this way remote parts become diseased, they have very rapidly a state induced more or less allied to that of the local condi- tion which gave rise to it. If that condition be merely inflammatory, the remote inflammation is speedily established, and that whether it appear in a viscus, or on the surface as erysipelas, boils, efflox-escence, &c. If, on the other hand, the condition of the exciting organ or injured part be suppu- rative, we have very rapidly, and with little previous inflam- mation, perhaps with none, suppuration established in the remote part, or effusion of serous fluid. In some instances, tolei’ably lai’ge collectioxxs of pus have been found, particu- lai'ly in the liver. In others smallei-, and perhaps numerous collections in, or on a viscus, somewhat like a mixture of fibrin and pus. The symptoms may not have been suffi- ciently acute to call the attention until near the time of death. I need scarcely add, that predisposition, or the application of slisrht excitinsr causes under these circumstances, shall assist