414 wounded, and a false aneurism formed, we may judge of the interruption to the direct circulation, by the fall of the tem- perature, and the failure of the pulsation below the injury, and, when the heat and pulsation return, we may be sure that the circulation, direct or indirect, has also returned. The collateral branches can only enlarge if the trunk be obstructed, or in proportion to the failure of direct circulation, and the impossibility of blood issuing from the upper orifice of a divided artery into the sac. If the sac enlarge rapidly, the action of the collateral branches is not increased nor their size enlarged. If the vessel be torn across, and the circula- tion be interrupted, it would, from these principles, seem to follow, that if the limb did not soon suffer or perish, we should, if the external wound were closed, have the branches immediately enlarging, and ought therefore to delay tying the trunk for some time, that they might acquire a greater size. But this is a mistake. If the vessel be quite divided, and the direct circulation destroyed, our ligature cannot make it less, and must have the same effect, that the laceration should have, in directing the current to the branches, whilst Ave have the advantage of operating on a limb comparatively in a sound state. If we delay, in the hope that the branches shall enlarge more, we find that, even if they did so, the sac also enlarges, the muscles are more separated, the fascia more distended, and the blood finding its way, more or less, from the upper orifice into the sac, retards the enlargement of the collateral branches. On the other hand, if the artery be only partially injured, and still come to transmit, more or less, blood along its trunk, there is, to the same extent, a retarda- tion of the enlargement of the branches. Every principle, then, of sound surgery, would call for the early performance of the operation, and point out not merely the inutility, but the danger of delay. Whether we should enlarge the wound, and tie both ends of the artery where it has been injured, or expose the trunk higher, and put a ligature around it, will come soon to be noticed. If we wish to know the most natural mode in which an artery is obliterated, we must attend to the ductus arteriosus,