GG the weight is nearly double. In a still more advanced stage, called gray hepatization, the human lung is still more dense and impervious to air, and its substance assumes a gray or ash colour, is soft and readily broken, and contains dif- fused in it a kind of pus, whilst the bronchiae often contain a reddish mucosity, and in some cases the patient expecto- rates a bloody mucus, of the colour of port wine. This mucus, or muco-purulent matter, is often found on the bronchial surface beyond the focus of inflammation, whilst thin pus is infiltrated into the substance, or poured into the cells, which sometimes become dilated. Pus may also be contained in small abscesses formed in the substance of the lung, but it is extremely rare to find a large abscess in the lung in consequence of acute inflammation. Sometimes con- siderable collections of matter are met with between the laminae of the pleura, which adhere around the deposition, or extensive depositions may take place between the pleura pulmonalis and costalis, constituting empyema, which may burst into the ramifications of the trachea; or the intercostal muscles are involved, and between two ribs an elastic fulness is perceived, whilst the skin over it soon becomes cedematous, and if an opening be not made, it next becomes red and points, and at length breaks. In other cases, the patient dies before either of these terminations take place. Empyema is not a common termination of pneumonia, and is oftener met with as a consequence of mechanical injury, than of cold, See. When it is extensive, the affected side becomes fuller, and remains more permanently in the position of inspiration. When the matter is evacuated, the lung, being seldom dilat- able, remains more or less collapsed, whilst the side of the thorax falls in to accommodate itself to the change; and thus the individual ribs are found below the line or level of the corresponding ones on the opposite side. Part of the interven- ing space between the lungs and thorax is at length filled, as Baron Larrey observes, with a spongy cellular looking sub- stance. Effusion of serous fluid or of fibrin, are the most frequent consequences of severe inflammation of the pleura; but purulent fluid may also be secreted, and form empyema,