532 of brandies. This is marked by some degree of tumefaction of the cellular substance, producing sometimes even a general swelling of the limb. The substance around the vessels becomes inflamed and thickened, so as to give them a feeling of cords, and the skin, over these cords, becomes of a reddish or pink colour, so that their course may be perceived by these coloured streaks. In severe cases, the induration is greater at one part than another, so as to form a chain of tumours like glands under the cutis, and over the vessel, and these sometimes suppurate in succession. It has been supposed that a pretty general inflammation of the lymphatic vessels of an extremity might take place, and produce a tense, elastic, dif- fused swelling, to a great degree, over the whole limb, consti- tuting a disease called phlegmasia dolens, in the puerperal state, and producing an affection of a similar nature in other conditions. Of all this there is no proof, and such effect arising from inflammation, or injury of the lymphatics, rests altogether on assumption. The treatment of inflammation of lymphatics is simple. We must use the lancet, and the general antiphlogistic plan, when the local affection is severe, or the constitutional effects are considerable. When they are very slight, we may be satisfied with a purgative and spare diet. Cloths, wet with cold water, or solution of acetate of lead, should be applied on the course of the lymphatics, and, if any particular part be very tender, leeches should be applied there, which may prevent the formation of local induration of cellular substance, or, if the whole course be tender and painful, leeches may be applied along it. If suppuration take place in any of the indurations, or around the trunk, warm poultices must be applied, and the treatment, recommended in abscess, be pursued. When a nerve is divided, and its extremities retained in contact, adhesion takes place, the intermedium either becomes gradually more perfect, or is so completely absorbed, that the neurilemma becomes again continuous, and the function of the nerve is slowly restored. If no inflammation take place, no pain attends the process; that which is felt at the moment of division soon ceases. But when a nerve is only partially