19G tendency to spreading under the skin, to be immediately let out by an opening, and then such uniform and gentle pressure, made by a roller applied over a pledget of lint, is to be resorted to, as the tenderness or local situation of the part will permit. The strength is to be carefully supported by digestible and light nourishment, given as freely as the stomach will bear, and such a proportion of wine is to be added as can be taken, without quickening the pulse and heating the patient. 1 he bowels are to be kept regular, but not loose. Sulphuric acid, bark, and other tonics have been advised, on the principle oi. exciting phlegmonous inflammation, and circumscribing the abscess ; but our only object, in prescribing these, ought to be strengthening the system, or promoting digestion. It will be very difficult to show that the induction of this inflammation is requisite as a preliminary to the cure, or to prove that it actually does take place before the extension of the mattei can be stopt. The last point for consideration, before quitting the subject of inflammation of the skin, is the treatment of scalds and burns. Hildanus, and the older writers, were minute in their subdivision of these according to the severity of the injury, proceeding from the slightest case where the skin was only red and painful, through the gradation of vesication, ulceration, disorganization of the texture, and destruction down perhaps to the bone itself. It is a practical observation, that scalds and burns are dangerous rather in proportion to the extent and delicacy of surface inflamed, than to the actual depth of injury done to the parts. The local effects vary in degree. 1. There may be mere erythema without vesication, or with vesicles so small, that the fluid is readily absorbed, or if it ooze out, a superficial dry scab is formed. This drops off, the part is restored to its colour, and no mark is left. Even in mere erythema there is often tumefaction of the cellular substance below, which is produced chiefly by serous effusion. 2. Vesications to a considerable extent may form, and these breaking, the cutis below, secretes purulent matter, as when cantharides or savine ointments are applied. In this