321 occurred to me many years ago, and which was published by my brother. The gentleman, who was advanced in life, had long complained of pain and throbbing about the head, on which account the temporal artery was opened : repeated hemorrhages took place from the wound, which had in vain been attempted to be restrained by pressure and ligatures. When I saw him, the temporal artery was pulsating strongly, the wound was occupied with a pulsating tumour of a purple colour, which could easily be made to diminish by pressure, but was instantly re-filled when that was removed, and a small stream of arterial blood was then ejected from it. An attempt was made to remove this diseased organization, and expose the sound trunk of the vessel, but it was found that the diseased texture occupied a greater extent than was expected; it affected almost the whole of the temporal muscle, passing undei the zigoma, and firmly bound down by the temporal aponeurosis. Every part of the structure poured out blood like a sponge. It was cleared away with the knife, even under the zygoma, as completely as could be prudently done, without resorting to a ligature on the carotid artery. But to prevent still farther the risk of regeneration, strong pressure was made on the surface of the cavity, by thrusting in a sponge, and using a roller. This proved effectual, and the gentleman lived for some years without experiencing a return of this disease. Different modes of treatment have been proposed; for instance, we have advised to destroy the part with caustic, and wheie the disease is incipient, not larger than a pimple, and particularly .when it is of the venous kind, this plan will be found in general effectual, provided the alkaline caustic be * used. The continued application of cold water or ice, has been expected to contract, and ultimately to obliterate the vessels, but very little dependance can be placed on this remedy! lessuie is more likely to obliterate the tumour, provided it can be steadily and efficiently applied. Even in the most avourable circumstances, however, in the superficial parts W leie a k°ne below affords counter-resistance, we seldom succeed, and if we fail to cure, we are sure to exasperate. On Y