some cases I think it has been accomplished in a few weeks; in others, years appear to have elapsed. So far, then, as this doc- trine is admitted, it will assume as a principle, that cancer does not appear as a primary disease in parts previously sound, but requires, as some able men have believed, a previous change of texture; in other words, that it is a diseased con- dition not, properly speaking, attacking any part of the natural frame, as inflammation does, but is a disease of a new formed or adventitious part. This, however, is by no means peculiar to cancer, but is, as I have already noticed, a prin- ciple that must be extended to many other tumours. It may be supposed to militate against this opinion, that we find that after the cessation of the menses, scirrhous tumours slowly form in the breast without any exciting cause, capable of producing a previous simple induration. This, however, is quite a fallacy. In a work which I published about thirty years ago, I showed that such tumours were produced in the same way as those by an external injury ; that the uterus becom- ing inactive, in so far as menstruation was concerned, the breasts, on the principle of the sympathy of equilibrium, became excited, as if a stimulus had been directly applied, and that in a degree proportioned to the diminished excite- ment of the uterus. This communication of action does not, however, take place to the same degree in every female, nor is it always productive of disease. Some constitutional con- dition, or some particular sympathy existing between the breast and the alimentary canal, or some previous but hitherto unnoticed disorder or enlargement of an individual gland, may determine why in one case a manifest alteration or tume- faction, at first not of a cancerous nature, may take place, and in another, supposing an equal degree of excitement to be communicated from the uterus, no bad effects shall be pro- duced. We can still more clearly understand how a simple induration already existing in the breast, perhaps for some years, may at this period become farther excited, and its conversion into a cancerous tumour be effected. The cancerous tumour has a peculiar organization, and a special way of acting. It may be inquired, whether the action