Ihe sore is foul, and the discharge thin; hut, says he, when the ulceiation stops, the edge becomes smooth, regular, a little rounded, and purple, covered with semi-transparent white. It is quite evident, that Mr. Hunter’s description of an ulcer is the description of a state very different from that which I would admit to be ulceration. His ulcerative inflammation is a piocess of destruction rather than of reparation ; granu- lation forms no part of it, and I confess that I can see no essential difference between his ulceration and suppuration. It may, indeed, be said that a distinction may exist, from there being powerful and progressive absorption ; let this be granted, we have still only suppuration, with the addition of progres- sive absorption. It is an evil species of suppuration, but it is not ulceration. Sir Everard Home, on the other hand, describes a granulating surface to be neither more nor less than a bottle-work, the extremities of the vessels blowing granulations. In a healthy ulcer, the surface is covered with granulations, which are closely connected, firm, small in size, and pointed at the top. The colour is florid, with a very slight shade of purple, for they possess abundantly both arteries and veins, through which the blood circulates both freely and actively. The granulations rise to the level of the surrounding parts, or even a very little beyond it. The margins are smooth, soft, and somewhat redder than the neighbouring skin, but have not the unhealthy fiery look of an inflamed part; they rather resemble a new-formed cicatrix, which indeed they soon come to consist of. The surface is bedewed with cream coloured pus. A healthy ulcer is not painful; if there be any sensation, it is one compounded of slight fulness and itch- ing. On exposure to air, however, there may be painful smarting. I have already explained the steps and process of cicatrization, which ought to go on progressively. The ratio, however, is not uniform, being quicker at one time than at another. This is a process of nature tending to resto- ration of a part. It leads to renewal or soundness, and there- fore all we have to do, is to let it alone. We cannot, and need not if we could, hurry on a process which is proceeding