46 that is a process in which granulations are formed. When this process is going on, the remaining part of the cartilage adheres less firmly to the bone, and when it is absorbed, the bone is found either suppurating or granulating. Destruc- tion of cartilage may go on without the formation of pus, but there is always a secretion of fluid during it. If an extremity be removed at the articulation, as is done at the shoulder and hip, we find, that after a time, the cartilage either dis- appears, and the cavity is filled up with a species of cellular substance, or it may remain, and a kind of cellular cap or cover is formed over it, but not united to it, adhering only at the edges. In this case, no inflammation, or any analogous change, can have taken place. If we remove a leg at the articulation, and leave it exposed, in a frog, for instance, the cartilage remains for a considerable time unchanged in appearance, granulations coming from the circumference of the stump, close over the surface, but the cartilage itself does not granulate, it either exfoliates, or is absorbed through the intervention of a kind of suppuration. If the cervix femoris of a dog be fractured, the extremity of the shaft becomes covered with a cartilaginous layer, and the margin of this adheres to a new formed capsule of a dense cellular nature, which unites it to a smooth part of the os innominatum covered also with cartilage. The head of the bone remaining in the acetabulum, is not even after many years absorbed, but its cartilage, as well as that of the acetabulum is absorbed in a great extent, if not universally, and union by ossific substance takes place. This I had an opportunity of examin- ing more than twelve years after the fracture. In a prepa- ration of the same kind from the human subject, the head of the bone is absorbed level with the acetabulum, and not only universally adherent to its cavity, but so blended with it as to form one mass. The cartilage could not have died, else it must have existed as a foreign body. It must either have suppurated and been absorbed, or converted first into fibro- cartilage, and then into bone; and the inference is, that we are wrong in considering it impossible for articulai caitilages to assume an action analogous to inflammation, merely