270 absorbed and removed. Insinuated into the cellular sub- stance, it inflames it. Similar experiments made with other animal substances, such as serum or saliva, do not prove fatal. It is evident, however, that we have here no proof that pus is the cause of hectic fever. We find this fever produced when there is little pus to be absorbed, and so, on the other hand, it may be nearly or altogether absent, when there is a good deal. The effect of any local action, if it influence the constitution by sympathy, is to induce a state similar to itself in kind, though not equal in degree. Produce vigorous inflammation in a part, and if the system sympathize, inflammatory fever is the result. Induce gangrenous inflammation, and as the part sinks, so does the system. Excite the suppurative action, and we shall have, exclaims the watchful critic, a universal and systematic suppuration. No ; but we shall have a general disorder, of which secretion forms a very prominent character. The constitutional marks of commencing suppuration are chills, succeeded by irregular glows of heat, a new species of fever, with more or less perspiration. Establish in sensible parts, 'or extensively in any part, suppuration, and these constitutional marks proceed to a greater degree, and last longer. If we ask wliat the suppurative action is, we cannot be told more than the fact, that the vessels form no longer the proper organic particles peculiar to the textuie of the part, and its natural interstitial fluid, but yield a new secre- tion in their place. This peculiar, and highly unnatural state of the part, may readily be supposed to act on the system. That it does so is a matter of fact, whatever difficulty we may find in the explanation of it. We take hold of the fact, and must account for it in the best way we can. I would pre- mise, that many local actions may excite the system, or act on it, although not attended with much sensation or pain; and even in the case of inflammation, the attendant fever is not proportioned exactly to the degree of local sensibility. We cannot therefore deny that the suppurative action, merely because it is not accompanied with much pain, and in certain cases with none, is capable of influencing the system, and producing a general disorder, whether we call that hectic