venience connected with the tedious cure effected by nature. Of this, every one will judge for himself. There is another circumstance, on which we may speculate, namely, whether the early excision of scrofulous tumour might not prevent an increase of the diathesis, by that tumour being allowed to run through a tedious course of disease. We do not as yet, however, possess facts sufficient to decide the point. I would, however, remark, that although the exquisite, or well marked scrofulous tumours, retain till the last their peculiar characters, yet those in which the action and character are less decided may change their nature, and thus, as the more simple tumour may afford a material capable of being converted in course of time into a texture of a more dangerous nature, so the scro- fulous tumour may come to lose its original character, without being absorbed or removed, and afterwards may undergo a new change. This is particularly the case with secreting glands, and although the doctrine may be disputed, I have little doubt that scrofula may be antecedent to scirrhus of the mamma, pylorus, and cervix uteri. We may, therefore, be inclined, in some cases of doubtful nature, but more resem- bling scrofula than any other disease, to extirpate the tumour as the safest practice, and most speedy way of getting rid of danger. SECTION TWELFTH. The last description of tumour which I shall notice, is the encysted ; a term which I mean to restrict to a cyst, contain- ing unorganized substance more or less fluid. These tumours have generally been divided into three varieties. First, the steatomatous, containing a substance like fat, which, never- theless, is made up of albumen. This does not come within the limits I have drawn, and has already been noticed, when considering solid tumours. The second variety is the melli- cerous, containing a substance resembling honey, of more or less thickness. The third is called atheromatous, from con- taining a substance more resembling pap. These contents, however, are essentially the same; differing, perhaps, chiefly in the proportion of albumen they contain, or the modifica-