353 our treatment, I believe, must be limited to three objects; to abate pain, to lessen fcetor, and to check haemorrhage when it occurs. There is no remedy so certainly to be depended on for the first of these purposes, as opium in some form or other. It ought, however, never to be given in larger doses or at shorter intervals than are absolutely necessary, and it generally will be found to be most effectual, when we at the same time take care to keep the bowels open. The combin- ation of opium and valerian, which I have already spoken of, is very useful; or we may use Battley’s liquor opii, beginning with fifteen drops, or such other form of opium as agrees best with the patient: other anodynes, such as cicuta, hen- bane, &c. have been employed, but are seldom of any utility. I can scarcely say, that for any length of time they can enable us even to diminish the dose of opium with which we may have combined them. I do not know of any local treat- ment, or particular dressing, which can be depended upon for allaying pain; at the same time, in different individuals one kind of dressing is found to be more comfortable than another, but this is only to be known by trial. Dry lint, lint spread with mild salves,-pledgets soaked in solution of nitrate of silver, or in water with the addition of nitrous acid, of such strength as to be barely pungent, or a fermenting poultice, or a poultice made of carrots, or of figs boiled in milk, or pledgets wet with solution of iron, or aqueous solution of opium, may all be tried, and the one which is the most comfortable be adhered to. The sore ought to be cai'efully washed at each dressing, and the frequency of the dressing ought to depend on the quantity of discharge. When the smell is very offensive, it is often lessened by sprinkling the sore with powdered charcoal, or mixing charcoal with a poultice, or applying pledgets wet with weak solution of chloride of lime. When haemorrhage occurs, it has been thought necessary to check it by the application of oil of turpentine ; but in general it is quite sufficient to apply one or two folds of dry lint to the sore, and over these a piece of soft sponge, which is to be gently but steadily pressed for some time with the hand, and then secured with a bandage, 2 A