464 Desault, it is contended, in the same year, but in the month o( June, performed a similar operation, but it is radically different, for he tied the artery much nearer the tumour. He made an incision two inches long above the tumour, detached the artery, and tied it; but if he proceeded on scien- tific principles, he went far wrong in his choice of a spot, and the result showed this, for on the 18th day, the ligature came off. Next day much matter and blood came away, and the tumour disappeared, showing, that although fortunately the arterial trunk had been obliterated, yet the artery was tied too near the sac, which had given way, and discharged its contents. Three principles seem now to be admitted. First, That it is necessary to tie a healthy or sound part of the artery. Second, That it is not necessary that the ligature should be applied near the tumour, provided there be no way of throw- ing blood freely into the intervening trunk. Third, That the absorbents are competent to the removal of the coagulated blood in the sac and extremities of the artery, and the absorp- tion being completed, these parts are converted into a sub- stance of a dense appearance, improperly called ligament. When the trunk going to the tumour is tied at a considerable distance from the aneurism, the intervening portion of artery is not empty. It still from communicating branches receives blood; there is, in one way or other, a quantity of blood sent to it, and if it were divided, or even punctured, blood would flow freely. Hence, it is evident that the sac, even after the operation, must receive blood, and, in some instances, the pulsation speedily returns in the aneurism; nay, it is pos- sible for the operation completely to fail. The sac is not obliterated; it is hurried on to inflammation, sloughs, and haemorrhage takes place. This indeed is not a common ter- mination ; for although blood still find its way into the sac, and even pulsation be reproduced, yet the current is slow, more and more coagulum is formed within the parietes, and ultimately, as in a spontaneous cure, the whole becomes solid. In this case, the cure is neither so tedious as that effected occa- sionally by nature, nor is it so rapid as that produced by more