505 very excitable, but it is a system prone, from very slight causes, to be thrown into a state of teasing excitement. There may be excitement without sensation, as we see in many disorders, that is, without a distinct perception ot the excitation. There may be contraction without sensation, but there can scarcely be irritation without sensation, for the very nature of that species of excitation is teasing. There may, indeed, be no definite sensation, but there must be feeling- more or less disagreeable; all pain is not that of irrita- tion. There may be a pain of the eye different from the irri- tating feeling produced by a small particle of sand, or that irritation may be also combined with actual pain. As irrita- tion is accompanied with a certain sensation, it must be more exhausting than excitement without sensation, and be also more wearing out than a moderate degree of simple pain. Irritation, like excitation, must also produce progressively increasing injury, as the power is exhausted, and as new parts may be brought to suffer. The essential character of irritation, as it affects the general system, is the feeling of more or less unhappiness, or indis- cribable discomfort, which is often productive of restlessness, inability to fix the mind on one pursuit, disturbed sleep and fretfulness of temper. Other phenomena sogn attend, pro- duced either by the influence of the local injury, or as effects of the general irritation on particular organs, and classes of nerves. We very often have a more frequent action of the heart, and occasionally many of the symptoms of fever, and this is apt to assume the remittent type, and resemble hectic. Particular organs suffer, as, for instance, the stomach. We may have sickness, or want of appetite, thirst, furred tongue; or the liver is affected, and the biliary secretion increased or diminished. There may, in one instance, be constipation, in another, obstinate diarrhoea. There may be headach, or even more serious derangement of the nervous system, leading to spasms, &c. When any one organ is brought to suffer much, either in consequence of the effect of the general con- dition on it, or of some special sympathy with the part ori- ginally injured or irritated, it may exert an influence on other