224 adhesion was cautiously destroyed, it was returned, and the wound stitched up. The animal remained apparently well, till it was killed accidentally, about a fortnight after the opera- tion. The intestine adhered to the parietes, and was some- what inflamed, but quite pervious. Thick caseous pus, such as is formed by the rabbit, lay around it, confined by adhe- sions. The rest of the viscera were healthy. In the human subject, when the inflammation is not resolved, and does not end in a gangrenous state, we find that either a change of structure, such as induration, takes place, or serous or puru- lent fluid is effused, and circumscribed by adhesion ol the intestines. If not speedily absorbed, the only chance of safety arises from evacuating the fluid by a small orifice, which should be immediately closed. In the second stage, little can be done. It were easy to lay down rules for supporting the strength by nourishment and cordials, and producing counter-irritation on the mucous coat of the intestines by turpentine, combined with castor oil; but who does not know how steadily the disease bids defiance to all our art, and, in spite of the parade of physic, makes hasty strides to fatal effusion and mortification? If ever a patient recover from this stage, I am disposed to place the cure rather to the credit of nature, or the salutary reaction of the system, than to the means employed, which at this period are very limited, and very unavailing. In parts debilitated previous to inflammation, there are two states to be attended to,—one where the injury or alteration only predisposes to inflammation from slight causes, as, or example, severe cold followed by moderate heat; another, where the debilitating cause at the same time excites to inflammation, as, for example, contusion or laceration, and severe cold, even without subsequent application of heat. Parts may be debilitated by conditions connected with the state of the body, as for instance, languid circulation in t le lower extremities, dependant on affection of the heart or aorta, or induration of the liver or spleen. In ,hose cas , inflammation may be preceded by effusion of water into the cellular substance: or there may be ossification ol