exudation caused by the ligature at the spot, is likely to fill up or obstruct the branch going off there. But if the branch go off a very little further up, but not distant enough from the ligature, the blood getting off by it, keeps the artery dis- tended, and continues the function of circulation, and al though some exudation exist at the tied spot, and a small coagulum may have formed, yet no solid union, or obliteration, takes place, at least within the time, when in the natural course of things the ligature must have fallen off. Htemorrhage, there- fore, takes place. On this account, setting other causes aside, the ligature of the subclavian artery is always to be considered as very uncertain in its effect. What is true of this artery is equally true with respect to others in similar circumstances. The relative position, then, of the ligature and the branch immediately beyond, together with the size of that branch, must be matters of great importance, and in considering the causes of failure, or of secondary haemorrhage, the existence of a considerable branch near the ligature, well deserves the greatest attention. When such a branch is known to exist, the ligature should either be applied higher, or one ought also to be put round the branch, according to circumstances. No expected benefit from anastomosis can compensate for the possible failure of obliteration. Another cause of failuie, is the unhealthy state of the part tied. II this be diseased in its texture, for instance, partially ossified, or if there be what are called steatomatous depositions in the coats, and which are generally depositions of fibrin or albumen, consequent to previous chronic inflammation, adhesion cannot take place. The artery inflames indeed, and exudation may take place, but adhesion does not follow. The circle surrounded by the ligature sometimes dies, and the ligature being thus detached without any permanent obliteration having taken place, the blood gushes forth. But more frequently the part suppurates, and the artery is opened, before the ligature can be completely detached. The ligature, applied to a healthy artery, and in a successful case, is supposed to eat its way out by ulceration, which is productive of no injury, because the part has become solid. But if this ulceration take place prematurely, or extend