84 pei iosteum, nodes, See. On the oilier hand, there is some- what more than takes place in those acute cases of perios- titis, or inflammation of the medullary membrane, ending quickly in necrosis of the substance. In chronic diseases, which may throw light on the state of acute inflammation, we often find that the cancelli or medullary part alone is affected. In flat bones, the two laminae are separated by softer, yet firm substance like fibrin, and at last they are absorbed, and this new growth increases greatly, and forms a tumour, one species of which is known by the name of osteo-sarcoma. In acute inflammation, the canals may enlarge, their inner coat is thicker, the oily deposite is diminished, or altogether stopt, its place being supplied with a mixture of cellular matter, fibrin, and bloody serum, giving a bright red gelatinous appearance to the contents of the medullary membrane, which is itself injected, or very vascular. Usually the outer layer, or a film of the bone dies, or is absorbed, and then this red substance is exposed, into which the probe may be pushed for some way. This soft spongy state, whether exposed by destruction of the integuments, or still covered by them, distinctly exists during inflammation; but it is still more evident in that subsequent state which is analogous to suppuration, and which has been called caries, but it is quite different from a mortified or necrotic state of the bone. Part of this process may be seen in ulcers with exposure of the bone. The outer layer often dies, and separates in whole or in portions; and whenever separation takes place, the surface is red, and highly vas- cular below, so that it bleeds on being touched. From the membrane or cellular substance granulations spring out, and become identified with those from the sides or soft parts. But I am passing from pure inflammation to the state of ulceration or granulation, and only notice it to illustrate the previous state of inflammation marked by vascularity of the membrane. The pain of acute inflammation of the bone, or its membran- ous and cellular part, is generally severe and deep-seated, and often extends along the course of the bone to a consider- able extent from the focus. If the internal structure of the bone be chiefly affected, there may for a time be little appear-