259 cion has acquired the necessary power of resistance and recovery. Even then it still remains a question how far amputation, secundum artem, is allowable. In all those cases where gangrene in elderly or very debilitated patients, arises bom, or is connected with, languid circulation, a regular amputation must be attended with much hazard; and I have always found it much safer to adopt the practice of Vigo and of Fabricius, of dividing the dead in the immediate vicinity o the living parts, and then sawing through the bone. We thus, without either pain or haemorrhage, get rid of a putrid limb. Tins rule of delay does not apply strictly to cases arising rom local causes, whether these may consist in external injury, or in the destruction of the circulation by aneurism, or the rupture of arteries. Mortification from wounded arteries, or the direct action of great cold, or other debilitating causes, may arise without any previous evident inflammation. It is t e mere death of the part from debility, or failure of power without any excitement, and generally without pain, at least till some progress have been made in the advancement of the eath. 1 he disease here, does not arise from disorder of the constitution, although it may afterwards produce it, and become associated with it. Where the gangrene is spreading, and the constitution is previously not unsound, nor as yet drawn into a state of great disorder or weakness by sympathy with the local disease, and more especially where the upper part of the limb has not become in any degree inflamed or swollen, we may, if the gangrene be advancing, amputate at once in the sound part. On the other hand, when the constitution has been previously unsound, and the accession o gangrene seems to have depended more on that state of the constitution than on the actual degree of the injury; and more especially when the limb above is swelling, amputation must ie itt e ess hazardous than in cases arising entirelv rom an internal cause. In our deliberation, we must attend muc i, not merely to the actual degree of fever and debility m to i )e circumstances connected with the sympathy that has taken place between the general and local condition