tice must proceed at first on the principle of lessening excite- ment. A state of rest, with the limb in a horizontal position, is indispensably necessary, and will often be found of itself sufficient. A bread and milk poultice is the best appli- cation to this sore. In a state of high excitement, leeches applied around it, have been considered as useful; but they are rarely required. Strict temperance must be enjoined, and it will be useful to bring and preserve the alimentary canal into a correct state, by the exhibition of laxatives. Having brought the sore into the state from which the excitement had removed it, or being called to treat it in that state, which has been incorrectly denominated the chronic or indolent ulcer’, we must have recourse to such means as can establish the ulcerative action; for at present it is the chronic suppurative one which exists. These consist chiefly of stimu- lants, the most effectual of which is pressure. This has been applied in various ways; for example, by a sponge bound down by a roller, by the roller alone, or by the laced stocking. But the most effectual is the application of strips of adhesive plaster, firmly encircling the limb at the sore part, whilst the roller is firmly applied from the extremity of the limb to the articulation immediately above the sore. As the irritation of the adhesive plaster is apt to fret the skin, or produce itching or vesications, it is often of service to apply a band of soft old cloth around that part which is to be encircled by the strips of plaster. This dressing is to be renewed once in twenty-four hours. If much heat or painful itching be felt in the sore, the bandage may be moistened with cold water, which gives more relief than rubbing. The use of adhesive plaster has been pro- posed, in the middle of the sixteenth century, by Formey and by the noted Paracelsus, who speaks very confidently of the cure per sparadrapum. It is not to be supposed that any one remedy, however powerful, shall in every instance be effectual, and therefore, when this, which is the most useful, fails, we must inquh’e what others can be resorted to. Considerable advantage may be derived from stimulating salves and lotions, which ought always to be aided by the roller. As no one remedy, however beneficial it may be at first, continues to