I 544 the use of remedies proper for that, we must use means for removing the condition we have detected. The influence, then, of local disease on the constitution, and of that again on the local disease, is most important. Many local diseases, however they may be produced, cannot be removed without lessening or destroying the constitutional effect. In other words, local applications, even when they can be made, are not always sufficient. It comes, then, to be of the utmost importance to ascer- tain how the general condition, which tends to keep up the local state, may be changed or improved. When the local disease is the original cause, and still continues to be a sup- porter of the general disorder, it might be expected that the removal of the one should destroy the other. But this is not necessarily the case, for such changes may have been induced, as shall not subside by the mere removal of the local disease, even were that possible; for the general condition reacts on the local one, and keeps it up. Then it will be said, that, as these two react on each other, and reciprocally support and influence each other, recovery can never take place. This unfortunately is too often the case, but, sometimes by the use of means, sometimes by inexplicable and spontaneous changes in the constitution, health is restored. If asked how we were to get rid of any disease, we should say, by destroying or checking it. But we have seen, and it has been particularly stated (page 132) that we have no means of assuredly and directly checking and destroying disease. We may so far act on it, and mitigate its force and its hold, as to enable the healthy action to displace it, and resume its operation. We should, therefore, be led to place much reliance on those means which improve health, or tend, directly or indirectly, to restore the natural function or action of the system, or of part of it. Let us, by all means, when we know how to do it, mitigate the violence, and counteract the direct effect of the action. Let us attack it in detail, by oppos- ing and removing particular manifestations, as is exemplified ininflammation. But in more obscure disorders, in actions and conditions, respecting the nature and phenomena of