461 it might be expected that it should continue safely to transmit blood. But this is only one view of the case; for as we have just seen it is also a tumour capable of inflaming or slough- ing, and, in some instances, even ol bursting, by laceration of a point where the coats had become very thin. Soonei 01 later, then, every aneurism which retains the power of receiv- ing blood, must open and discharge its contents. The inflam- mation preceding this, sometimes, does obliterate the vessel opening into the sac, and thus a natural cure is obtained, provided the strength can be kept up during the process of sloughing and ulceration. In other instances, by some cause or other, the blood coagulates in the sac, and lendeis it a solid tumour; permanent obstruction is afforded to the pas- sage of the blood, and the artery comes, at, and for some way above, its entrance, and for some way below its exit, to be obliterated. This is a safer way of effecting a natural cure, and it has in various instances taken place. Art can only imitate nature, or employ means for producing the same result, namely, coagulation of the blood, and the conversion of a cavity containing a fluid, into a solid mass or tumour. Solidity is the end, coagulation the means, and whatever can produce universal coagulation, must, if an aneurism can be cured, cure that aneurism, and do so just as effectually as if the tumour were cut out. The old practice was to remove the tumour after tying the artery above and below. Then the site was made to suppurate. Others passed a double liga- ture under the sac, and tied the upper and lower portions separately, as we still do in the case of some excrescences. The sac was then opened, and part of its parietes cut off. But this plan of excision soon yielded to that of applying a tourniquet, opening the sac, searching for the orifices of the vessel, and tying these, or applying over them a button of vitriol, or the hot iron, and then compresses. It is useless in the present day, when we have so many good compilations of practice, to detail all the various modifications proposed; for the principle was the same in all, namely, to obliterate the orifices of the artery, generally by the ligature, and then to heal the sac by granu- lation. It is evident that such operations must have been