27 3 the real effect. Heat may promote suppuration, if it do not lemove inflammation. If applied prematurely, or in too great a degree, it gives pain, and does harm. On the other hand, if the process be going on very slowly, heat may accelerate it. In the first case, it is positively hurtful; in the second actually eneficial 01 efficient. There is a third case, however, where t le action is going on briskly, and in such cases it may be much doubted how far heat can accelerate the action. A high C eg*’ee of lt} in a11 probability, would be detrimental. Tepid applications, however, may at first hasten the termination of inflammation, and afterwards keep the part easier, than if nothing were applied. They do not interfere with the pro- cess going on, but allow it to follow its course, whilst they al ay irritation and relieve the patient. They may soothe and lelieve the attendant effects, without directly hastening the process, at least otherwise than by keeping off irritation, an preventing a renewal of inflammation, which might retard it; they are, therefore, excellent remedies, although they do not act exactly in the way we may suppose. The form most commonly employed is that of a bread and milk poultice, boiled so as to acquire considerable thickness and tenacity, and after wards mixed with a little olive oil or fresh butter. These poul- tices should be just so large as to cover the part, and ought to be removed before they become dry. Whatever their tem- perature may have originally been, they very soon acquire that of the part, and therefore, in changing them, we attend rather to their dryness than to their coldness. They can be considered, with the exception of a few minutes -at first as merely moist applications possessing the temperature of ’the pait. n order to prevent the loss of heat, some envelope the pait in flannel, others, to prevent evaporation, cover it with au 01 cloth. It has also been proposed, at each renewal of t e poultice, to foment the part with warm water, but I do not know that this is very useful. The time required to brino- an abscess forward, and have it burst, varies according to its i uation and extent. Small abscesses in the cellular sub- si^’ lf1aCUt6’ may bui’St within a week’ others more exten- 1 deeper may retluire near a month. It is a good T