more compact. When granulations have reached the surface, the process of ulceration gradually ceases, and the cutis is formed. This process, called cicatrization, usually proceeds from the circumference towards the centre; but occasionally little spots become skinned at different parts of the disc or surface, like small islands, gradually enlarging, so that the whole is moi’e rapidly cicatrized. It is the corium which is first formed; then this becomes covered with an epidermis; and last of all, but not in every instance, the rete mucosum is renewed. This renewal, when it takes place, almost invaria- bly proceeds from the circumference towards the centre. The cicatrix at the margin assumes more nearly the appearance of the skin. The cicatrix would, therefore, appear to diminish in size, even although it were not at all lessened. There is, however, an actual contraction or diminution of the cicatrix, by its particles becoming more compact in the same way as the granulations did, and thus the surrounding skin is drawn more towards the centre. This is more remarkably the case, after some species of ulceration than after the more healthy kind; so that the surrounding skin may even become puck- ered, or depressed. Some have imagined that the granula- tions never rose up to a level with the surrounding surface, but that the neighbouring skin, by a wasting of the subjacent cellular substance sunk to a level with the ulcerated surface. That this sinking, does in part take place, in many instances, I am not disposed to deny; but that it is a necessary, far less an exclusive way of effecting a level, I scarcely think it neces- sary to disprove. Mr. Hunter considers ulceration as a species of inflammation, which he calls the ulcerative inflam- mation. If we inquire a little farther as to the character of this inflammation, we find it to be resolved into that of absorp- tion, which he calls pi’ogressive absorption, to distinguish it from interstitial. Several succeeding writers have adopted the same opinion, and given a kind of commentary upon it, doubtless, because they found it more easy to amplify than to investigate. Mr. Hunter describes the character of an ulcer- ating surface to be, that it is made up of little cavities, the edge ol the skin is scolloped, thin, and overhangs the surface.