136 Topical bleeding is useful in inflammation, when it can be employed, but it acts more on the organ than the system ; and accordingly, when the local disease has become distinctly or strongly associated with constitutional action or fever, this is rarely, if ever effectual. It acts slowly, compared to the lancet; and therefore, whilst, if long continued, it may debi- litate and do mischief, it can seldom do much good in checking fever or general action. As the evacuation takes place slowly, especially when leeches are used, we should, now that the circulation of the blood is understood, and the free commu- nication of vessels admitted, be inclined from reasoning to say, that it could in few cases do any good. For, as fast as the small vessel emptied, it should be filled, and neither con- traction, nor any of the other effects above noticed, should take place. But experience militates against this opinion, and a little attention will explain the principles. The origin of circulation is pressure, and the effect of pressure must be proportioned to the resistance. This may be so great as to balance the force, and the fluid will remain quiescent in any tube. Open the end of that tube, so as to take off all resistance from that part, and the velocity, and quantity thrown out in a given time, may be easily calculated from the pressure, and the size of the tube, and its oiifice. The pressure being the same, both will vary according to the size of the orifice. No hydraulic calculation, however, can be accu- rately or regularly applied to the arteries; because, whilst they are not exempted from the principles of mechanical philosophy, they also are influenced by vitality, and the diminution of lesist- ance augments, in a greatly increased ratio, the vital conti ac- tion. This is nowhere so remarkably seen as in parturition, where the speedy relaxation of the os uteri excites the uterine contraction in a most powerful degree. The same principle ought to hold true in other parts of the animal frame. Divid- ing any vessel, by removing, except in so far as atmospheric pressure is concerned, all resistance to the vis a tergo, does mechanically produce increased motion. In a metallic tube, it would produce motion where none existed before ; or if we enlarged there the orifice, we should augment the Aelocity in