190 most immediately dangerous consequences, result from a blow on the stomach, which is often instantaneously fatal. Yet, even in this case, a more distant part may suffer, a blood- vessel, for example, being ruptured in the brain, either from the influence exerted by the stomach on the brain, or on the heart. There are two dangers to be apprehended from shock, both to the part and to the system. The first is death, from failure or from absolute loss of power. The second is the consequence of rallying, and the induction of a state of dan- gerous excitement, if not of actual inflammation. Our object ought, therefore, to be twofold. First, to prevent the sinking from going to a dangerous or fatal degree; and, secondly, to avoid, as far as the urgency of the symptoms will admit, every thing that can excite the system beyond the mere degree of rallying; we must be guided in part also by the nature ol the injury, and the tendency which it gives to a prolonga- tion of the debility. Thus, severe sprain of the ligaments causes sudden depression and sickness; but these go off sooner than if produced by injuries of the nervous system. The continuance of the period of debility, before rallying and excitation take place, is not proportioned to the inten- sity of the shock, but is considerably dependant on the natuie of the part affected. This should be remembered, both in the prognosis, and in the treatment. In many cases merely by letting the patient alone, or avoiding further causes ot sinking, he shall recover from the debility ; wheie it is moie intense and prolonged, our practice must vaiy accoiding to the degree. It is often sufficient to place the patient in a horizontal posture, and to prevent the farther loss of heat, by flannel or blankets, allaying at the same time, as far as we can, every source of local irritation, by position, dressing, &c. In more urgent cases, it may be necessary to apply heated flannel to the stomach, back or extremities, and to give small quantities of warm liquid of a mild nature, such as tea. But when we find that the system is not beginning to rally, but is rather, perhaps, sinking more, or the symptoms be, though only at intervals, severe, we must cautiously have recourse to