53 slight inflammation of that membrane, or the arachnoid at the base of the skull, or over the medulla spinalis, which is fol- lowed by a very formidable disease which I have described in the Principles of Midwifery, and which I shall in the progress of this work have occasion farther to illustrate. In the healthy state, the arachnoid coat is destitute of red vessels, whilst the pia mater below it is very vascular. But in inflammation this membrane does become red, partly from its serous vessels receiving red blood, though some deny that these run in the proper substance of the membrane, but principally from infil- tration of either blood or red serum into the cellular tissue below it, and which can be washed out. The principal vas- cularity, however, belongs to the pia mater, which is also infiltrated with blood to a greater or less degree, and becomes highly injected, whilst the arachnoid becomes opaque or milky, loses its polish, is thickened and denser. Presently, secretion takes place of muco-purulent fluid into the cellular coat under the arachnoid, and also between it and the dura mater. Phis is sometimes not more viscid than pus, and confined within limits by adhesion between the arachnoid and dura mater; but in general it is smeared over the whole inflamed surface, and is found even in the ventricles. Hence, no ope- ration can in traumatic arachnitis be expected to do «-ood Another termination, particularly in infancy, is the secretion of serum under and over the membrane, and also into the ventricles. Layers of lymph are also sometimes formed. Notwithstanding the intimate connexion between the arach- noid and pia mater and the brain, the substance of that oigan is by no means necessarily involved; and, indeed, it seems to suffer more in function than in organization, for even in intense degrees of inflammation of these membranes, its substance is found apparently sound. The dura mater also often escapes, although a layer of the arachnoid coat be reflected along its inner surface, and be reddened with blood. Mucous membranes are furnished either with a multitude of small glands or follicles, which have excretory orifices, and aie liberally supplied with vessels, which ramify over and in t era. Some membranes, as that of the intestines, have also