162 nature tending to obstinate, far less, malignant ulceration, do any thing to exasperate the action, but, on the contrary, by the mildest treatment, and mere palliatives, if we interfere at all, endeavour to keep the tumour quiet. I appeal to those who have been most active in their treatment, for an impartial decision; and to my younger brethren, I hope I do a service, when 1 earnestly beg of them to pause before they proceed. One good effect has already resulted from the fashionable doctrine of the origin of numerous diseases, from affections ot the alimentary organs, when this is not pushed too keenly, namely, the substitution of a mild course of laxatives, for a dangerous and empirical use of mercury, and other stimulat- ing or poisonous substances. These remarks might peihaps have been reserved till I came to treat of tumours, but they are not misplaced here. Before quitting this part of the subject, I shall briefly notice a condition somewhat analogous to that which has been just considered, and winch is called, perhaps not very properly, chronic inflammation. This is a disease more of the nature of a tumour or new formation, than of actual inflammation. It consists chiefly in the existence of the simple inflamed tex- ture or structure, without the activity of action. There is turgescence of the vessels, particularly of the veins, and the part is altogether more vascular, as well as slightly swollen, from the continuance of those depositions which took place during the active stage. It does not act like a healthy part, neither does it act exactly like an inflamed one. It bears, perhaps, the same relation to acute inflammation that the smothered, but not extinguished fire does to the blazing pi e. It is productive rather of teasing irritation, than of actua pain; but as it interferes with the due performance of the function of the part, whatever that may be, it must always be more or less injurious; and, besides, it is liable to sudden attacks of acute inflammation, and in one of these we may have the part more injured, and suppuration or obstinate ulceration produced. , This disease may be placed as a link between actual an acute inflammation, and the termination by thickening, 01