115 of action compared to power, the other by no cause, except the formation of an unnatural vacuity. They are attended by different symptoms, influenced by different laws, and tend to opposite ends. I he wounded part does not inflame in older that it may heal, but as a consequence of injury and interference with its action ; and I can see nothing in the action of inflammation analogous to that of ulceration, nor essential to it, and therefore, although the one generally precede the other, and certainly be capable of acting as an exciting cause to the other, I can find no argument from theory, nor sup- poit from practice, to induce me to court the accession of inflammation; but, on the contrary, 1 find that all wounds thrive best which inflame least. Distention of a part, if unaccompanied with relaxation, is also a cause of inflammation in fibrous texture, and removing the tension sometimes removes the inflammation. It has somewhat hastily been said, that those who are of a full or sanguine habit are peculiarly predisposed to inflammation. .at plethora may produce, or be connected with a state of action which is at the very summit of the boundary of health and readily thrown over to the side of disease, is an established fact. But it is no less certain, that the spare, and ema- ciated, and worn out frames and organs of many, are pecu- liarly liable to inflammation ; and this is a fact which has by no means escaped the observation of various attentive practi- tioners. To refer this to idiosyncrasy, is to close the inquiry by saying, we know nothing about the matter. One oreat and insurmountable difficulty appears to me to have arisen from the erroneous opinion, that inflammation is always a disease of vigour, or, in the jargon of Brown, high excite- ment in a sthenic diathesis. The experience of every day ought to convince us, that our worst attacks occur in parts naturally weak, or in habits or organs artificially weakened. There is no female so exposed to inflammation of the uterus or peritonaeum as she who has suffered from severe uterine haemorrhage. No brain is so liable to inflammation as that W *ias keen concussed. No wounded man in such hazard ns he who has been first starved, and then stimulated. I have