340 and forms a mass apparently losing itself by degrees in the sound structure. Its centre is the firmest and most gristly looking part, and from this the ligamentary septa radiate; then the gristly substance extends, and the whole carcinoma seems better defined, and in some instances would almost appear to he encysted. By this time, if not earlier, the cysts are distinct, and now advance in progress, as I have described, whilst at one or more parts we may have a round or irregular mass as large as a nut, of a colour different from all the rest, like rotten buff leather, or shamois, spongy in its feel, and from which may, by squeezing, be made to ooze brownish mucus or pus. When we cut into the lymphatic glands, which have pai’- ticipated in the disease, we find the same texture exist. Ihey become dense, and their surface, when cut, has an appearance mixed up of that of fibrin and gelatin, but studded with gra- nules of denser and rather whiter substance, which are the rudiments of cysts, for in some of these the margin is seen distinctly gristly, and the centre softer. Sometimes one white band moves longitudinally along the middle, dividing the gland into two portions. It was till lately supposed, that this contamination of the glands, as it was called, could only be produced by absorption of cancerous matter; but it has by some ingenious men been since supposed that they were affected only by the disease actually spreading along the lym- phatics to them. That the intervening lymphatic vessels may be diseased is highly probable, but there is surely no more ground for maintaining that the disease is propagated by extension or ramification, than that this happens in syphilis and other disorders, producing swelled glands. At the same time, I am not disposed to deny the possibility of this propa- gation, nor that sometimes, although not invariably, the disease fs thus communicated to the glands. But I do not admit it is the only one, perhaps not the ordinary one. In certain cases, I am satisfied that the fascia participates in and propa- gates the disease. For instance, we find that the mamma t covered with a firm fascia, which is a continuation of that of the axilla; another thinner layer extends below the