‘253 milk and vegetables could be so easily digested, as mild ani- mal soups; and it is worth considering, whether the acetous fermentation into which they run might not prove more injurious, than any supposed stimulus produced by mild soups. I hat diet which is most easily digested, and followed in a weak state by least excitement of the system, is the best in every instance. Whilst, therefore, I would not abstain, during any stage of this disease, from the use of weak soups and animal jellies, I would at every period have some hesita- tion in recommending solid animal food, unless the patient expressed a strong relish for it, and had no febrile exacerba- tion after it. Food ought never to be given largely at once; it ought to be taken more frequently than in health, and in small quantity, not more at a time than the stomach can easily digest. Unswayed by systems and speculations, I say that it may be given of any kind, and to any extent which can be digested, if febrile excitement be not produced. . rile medlclnes prescribed have usually been of a stimulat- ing nature, such as aromatics, tinctures, and wines, with or without opium. I conceive it to be very doubtful whether aromatics and essential oils ever have done any good, farther than as they may, in particular instances, have acted beneficially on the stomach. But as wine is a medicine of more decided power, capable of doing both more good and more mischief, 1 feel called upon to point out, as explicitly as I can, those cases m which it is admissible. Under those circumstances in w lie we have been balancing the arguments for and against blood-letting, and have determined against it, it is sure y premature to talk of giving wine. Even when we have ceasec o t nn v o the admissibility of evacuations, it does not ol ow that wine is either required or would be safe. It is .on y w ien t ie gangrene has declared itself, when the consti- tution has actually begun to decline, that the cautious exliibi- mn of wine is called for. There is a turning point, which 'e must not pass too far before we begin it, neither must we ommence too soon. Haifa glassful of that kind most shall lik I P?ent’ I1'161'alone diluted with water, a°s he Sha" llU beSt> be given in tl.e first instance. If this