232 broken, or very irritable habit, or arising in any habit from a debilitating contagion. This differs from the common ery- sipelas already considered, being attended with more pain; indeed, the sensation is sometimes that of tormenting burning, and the colour is deeper or more livid. The destruction may spread chiefly along the cutis, or that may be affected to a less degree than the subcutaneous cellular substance, which dies, whilst the surrounding parts suppurate. It comes away in portions, or in one mass of a yellow or buff colour, from being steeped in pus. The same remark holds true with regard to the tendon of the occipito-frontalis muscle, when the scalp is affected. This is more dangerous, in proportion as it affects parts remote from the heart, and of languid circula- tion. It is exceedingly apt to end in mortification, which is usually preceded by the formation of vesicles, filled with bloody serum. The fever is always high, but at last the pulse becomes very rapid, as well as wTeak; the sleep is pi’evented, and the strength sinks. The inflammation spreads, and the mortification follows the tract of inflammation. The treat- ment here consists in applying constantly cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine, for a weaker spirit does not give relief, as I have seen, by attempts made to substitute the one for the other. Bloodletting is seldom admissible. If ever, it is only in the very first stage, and to a moderate extent. "W herever the inflammation has assumed a deep or livid colour, the practice is dangerous, and indeed, under every circumstance, after a short time has elapsed, it is doubtful. Even at the very first, we are to be regulated by the heat and redness of the parts, and the degree of fever. The rule, when we do bleed, is to be fixed as much by the number of hours which have elapsed, as by any other circumstance. Bark or quinine, when it can be retained, is to be administered, and wine given freely. It is sometimes necessary to give a bottle in a day. Opium, to the extent of five or six grains daily, may be required to allay the pain, and the bowels are to be opened by the laxatives which can be most easily taken. The diet ouo-ht to be good. When the sphacelus stops, it it have been confined to the skin and cellular substance, and be not 'ci\