458 part, and in every direction ; but in the cyst or abscess, the pulsation is most distinct over the trunk of the artery, and less so at the sides, and when grasped laterally, does not com- municate the feeling of strong expansion or pulsation. If it be a glandular abscess, we presently find that the skin becomes red and mottled, and small veins traverse the surface. The tumour becomes softer and more flaccid, though it still pulsates. Aneurism does not become mottled, or purple, or covered with small venous ramuli like a scrofulous tumour. If it be possible to draw the cyst a little forward, the pulsation in the same degree declines. The history of the case may also assist us; for example, in aneurism of the subclavian or innominata, we may have previous thoracic affection, or difficulty of breath- ing, and the tumour appears first from the region of the sternum or clavicle, with all the characters of aneuiism. But in glandular abscesses, the tumour, wherever situated, began like a solid lump, gradually becomes softer, and now, how- ever extensive it may be, and however it may be moved or impelled by the artery, it is not possessed of the same kind of expansive uniform pulsation as an aneurism. If it extend up the neck, it indeed vibrates extensively, and the thyroid carti- lage itself may be slightly moved by its vibration, but still, at it)Tboundary, the pulsation is indistinct, and if any part pro- ject over the clavicle, so as to get away from the direct impulse of the artery, the pulsation there is much less than elsewhere, if not altogether absent. It is of great importance to make a correct diagnosis, for if an abscess be mistaken for aneu- rism here, it may be allowed to burst into the thorax, and kill the patient; and it would be no less dreadful to open by mistake an aneurismal tumour. There have been instances where the difficulty of discrimination was such, as to lead to an opinion that the tumour not only was aneurism, but just on the eve of giving way. It has given way, and the patient been saved by a discharge of purulent matter. Such ambi- guous cases in the neck, or at the clavicle, fortunately seldom occur, for in general the characters are distinct. But in cases of doubt, it may be allowable to introduce a couching needle into the sac, and ascertain its nature. When large cysts are