long proved, that men might have the skin frozen, and die internal parts apparently much cooled. But I particularly point out the evil which may follow from the continued application of ice to herniary tumours, when the intestine is vero-inff between life and death. O O Besides the sympathetic, and more indirect effects of cold, we find a powerful cause of inflammation to be the application of heat after exposure to great cold; for this seems to have, though moderate in its degree, the same consequences as if water, nearly at the boiling point, were applied to a sound part. This is well seen in the case of frostbit parts. Some animals, however, suffer less than others from this, lo a loop of the intestine of a rabbit ice was applied, so as to reduce its temperature to 34°. It became paler, stiffer, and the veins on the mesentery were filled with vermilion blood. The animal complained much when the ice was applied. 1 he intes- tine was replaced, and the internal wound closed. Next morn- ing the rabbit was quite well. Sixth, Inflammation may be produced by pain under certain circumstances. All kinds of pain, even when very intense, do not produce inflamma- tion, for pain does not always operate in the same way. In some cases it merely exhausts, in others it excites; great sen- sation must always weaken the part, and tend to exhaust the system; and in this state very slight causes may produce inflammation. Pain may also be conjoined with causes which directly debilitate the part, whilst it may itself not have con- tinued longer than to excite and cause inflammation, and in such a case the inflammation so produced occasions gicatei evil from the conjunct weakness of the part. In one sense, pain may be considered in the same light as those causes which act directly on a part, such as heat, acrid substances, &c. • and even when occasioned by the abstraction of a sti- mulus, as, for example, by cold, it is quite competent to derange action, and produce inflammation. If this view be correct, I need scarcely add, that in all cases of great pain affecting vital organs, we cannot be too anxious to have it relieved, and that without any regard to comfort, or to rapid exhaustion, but even if we confined our consideration to the