11 nerves, vessels, See. Then, we have to attend to the effect on the body at large, or on particular systems, as the nervous or vascular, by this action, whether considered generally or separately in its different parts. It is quite a mistake to suppose, that in all increased degrees, and particularly disordered conditions of action, every constituent part must be equally affected. These may exist without an increase, nay, even with a diminution of the velocity and force of the circulation in the part. Although all the different parts of the body be combined into one system, and dependant on a general principle, yet individual organs do, in one sense, form separate systems, acting according to their own laws, whilst they are at the same time connected with, influenced b}r, and influencing not only the general system, but other individual organs. 1 his not only holds true of distinct organs, but even of small portions of those, or of any part of the body. If we cut off a small bit of the liver, of a rabbit for instance, and examine it with the microscope, we may see the capillai’y circula- tion going on, and can by applying spirit of hartshorn, first accelerate, and then speedily stop it. If we cut off the foot of a frog, we see the capillary circulation continue brisk, parti- cularly in the veins, though often irregular, and even can by stimulants, produce appearance of inflammation. The influence of a part in disease is various. It may affect other parts by spreading, that is by sympathy of communi- cation, or it may influence the origin of the nerves going to it, and through them, produce extensive effects. The degree and extent of involvement may not only vary, but also the nature of the state induced on the medulla may vary. There may be a peculiar or specific effect produced there, which we can no more describe, than we can the unknown and imper- ceptible peculiarity of action in the part itself first affected, or the local disease; or there may be one division of a nerve most affected. When a tumour is inactive, and no sympathy is induced, we have little or no detriment, but if there be an effect produced on the origin of any one division of nerve, we are apt to have an involvement of the neighbouring