Ill often suffer, especially when formerly diseased or predisposed to disease; and hence we find it necessary to send many to a milder climate, and that with much more benefit than when the lungs are injured. But in very great cold, the tempera- ture of these cavities is modified by the warm air exhaled. It is difficult to say if the temperature of the thorax be always the same. I do not think it is. But it is certain that there is a great difference in the mouth. A thermometer held in the aii contained in the mouth moderately open, shall rise from 55°, the temperature of the air, to 75° in one person, and SO in another, in the same room. If we turn from this view to that of the effect of cold, externally applied, on the internal parts, we find that it is capable of varying the tem- perature considerably. It is not correct to say that there is an uniform standard of heat within, for this may be easily disproved. If we open the abdomen of a rabbit, and intro- duce a thermometer, we find its temperature to be 102°. The inside of the parietes is 100°; but if we retain the bulb there, and apply ice cooled perhaps to 10°, we find that the ther- mometer falls to 54°. If the animal be surrounded with ice, the temperature of the deeper parts of the abdomen may soon come down to 92°. Water at 125° applied to the surface of the parietes, whilst the bulb is in contact with the peritoneal surface, raises the mercury to 107°. If the animal cooled by ice, so as to have the cavity of the abdomen sunk to 92°, be then immersed in water at 152°, its heat quickly rises to 102°. An aperture was made on the right side of the thorax, and the bulb being introduced, the temperature was found to be 98°, which is lower than that of the healthy abdo- men. Ice was then applied for some time to the head and nape of the neck, and the temperature fell to 92°. On the ice being removed, it rose to 94°. The use of this lung, however, was from first to last, pro tempore in a great mea- sure suspended, and the experiment was only made on one animal, which soon appeared to be quite well, on having the external wound closed. These experiments show, that ice applied to the surface may really cool the deeper parts ; and indeed experience has