402 may even be requisite to take blood from the arm, but this always requires great caution. Blisters are more frequently useful, and a small part may be kept open by savin ointment. Laxatives and mild diaphoretics are also proper, and very soon quinine, or light tonics, may be used. If there have been an extensive wound, every effort must be made to pro- mote adhesion, and if that fail, to establish suppuration, during which the strength must be supported. If the constitution have been previously disordered, and particularly if the wound have been lacerated, or fretted, all irritation must be shunned, for erysipelas, followed by gangrene, is to be appre- hended : such a case is to be treated on the principles recom- mended for the cure of the low or irritable inflammation. An artery consists of different layers, the innermost of which is a prolongation of the lining of the left side ol the heart. It is very thin, transparent, of a whitish colour, desti- tute both of fibres and of cellular substance. Its internal surface is smooth and polished, like serous membranes, but it is much more fragile or brittle. In the dead subject, when the empty artery is slit up, its surface is found to be moist- ened by a peculiar fluid, characterized by some as unctuous. It adheres, though slightly, to the next coat, by pellucid fibrili. This next coat, or the second, counting from within, is of a peculiar texture, which has been denominated, by Bichat, arterial tissue. It is the muscular coat of others. If we carefully inspect the fibres of this coat, which aie divisible into strata, we shall find, as my brother has observed, two species in its texture. The one of a pale red, and the othei of a yellowish colour. In youth, the former ; in old age, the latter predominate. It is made up of fibres, which pass in a circular direction, but do not go completely around the artery, being rather obliquely connected and interlaced. These fibres are united by a slender intermedium, which yields to a force applied in a circular, but resists more power- fully when applied in a longitudinal direction. It is totally destitute of cellular substance, for the cellular coat does not plunge into the interstices of the arterial tissue or fibre, and also, according to Bichat, of muscular fibre, consisting ol a