299 pain, or makes the sore granulate. Carrot poultices, bread and milk poultices, fomentations with decoction of poppy heads, lint wet with the solution of nitrate of silver of such strength as barely to smart, for instance three or four grains to an ounce of rose water, or a drachm of calomel mixed with eight ounces of lime water, forming what is called the black wash, sometimes simple ointment alone, or. olive oil by itself, or with a small addition of the acetum lithargyri, or a hemlock poultice, or camphorated spirit of wine, may be em- ployed. Whatever gives permanent pain does harm, and very often the mildest applications are the most useful. Indeed, I believe that in many instances, local applications have little share in the cure, which depends either on a salu- tary change on the constitution, or an improvement in the part itself from obscure causes, supposed to be sufficiently explained by saying, that the disease has worn itself out. The best then, perhaps, that we can say, in favour of any applica- tion is, that it has done no harm. Some have found relief from a poultice of boiled greens sprinkled with sugar. A lintseed, or bread and milk, poultice mixed with a considerable quantity of extract of cicuta, sometimes is soothing to the part. This acute suppuratingsore is very apt to become affected, oftener partially than universally, with inflammation of the low kind, ending rapidly in mortification. A portion of the surface, but still more frequently of the margin, assumes a fiery red colour, with a hue approaching to pink, soon it becomes successively purple, blue, and black, after which it is thrown off as a slough. When the surface is affected, it loses its glossy buff colour, and becomes redder. When the margin is affected, a fiery yet livid redness extends a little way from the sore, generally with a smarting or burning sensation, and presently gangrene supervenes to the extent, nearly of discoloration. -This kind of sore may spread deep as well as laterally, but some kinds tend more to one direction than another. From the devouring or destructive nature of the sore it has been called phagedena. The acute suppurating soie, may without inflammation make considerable progress, so as to deserve the name of a depascent sore; but the slough-