.5 40 also destroy by wearing out and exhausting the system. A high degree of action may speedily be followed by sinking, the patient dying rather suddenly; but, usually, the exhaustion is more slow, and, in certain cases, the frame is not destroyed till after the lapse of many months. But in all these cases, it is the debilitating and exhausting effect vchich is fatal. It is not the mere state of action, or the mere existence of the disease which kills, but the weakness produced. This, how- ever, may be greatly aided by the interruption of function. Now, the inference at first sight would be, that the constitu- tional treatment here should be to give cordials, and employ direct means for keeping up the strength. But a previous consideration is, whether these cordials may not, in place of supporting the strength, increase the diseased action, and consequently sooner destroy the patient. We come, then, to a safer rule, namely, that in all cases where we can, we subdue, or allay, the action, even if evacuations should be required for the purpose. Where we cannot do this, or our means fail, then, as a last resource, we must give cordials, so as to do as little harm, and procure as much benefit as possible. In diseases where we have great excitement, and high action, wre are sure to have exhaustion speedily produced, if we cannot allay that action. If we can do so, the patient recovers from the exhaustion, unless it have gone to an extreme degree. Looking forward, then, to the state of exhaustion, we take the earliest means of checking the action. In inflammation, for instance, we have recourse to blood-letting, which is a direct mean of producing debility, and yet it comes, in this case, to be the mean of preventing exhaustion. If we bleed early, and to such an extent at a time, as shall accomplish the object of curbing the inflammation, if not of stopping it at once, and repeat the evacuation soon, and allow the blood to flow till relief be obtained, the patient is saved, and although weakened, is not fatally exhausted. But if we bleed fre- quently, yet in so inefficient a manner, as not to suspend the progress of disease, even by any one evacuation, we sink the patient sooner. One man, then, may save his patient with the loss of thirty ounces of blood. Another, by frittering