416 artery, produces, first a contraction, and then an obli- teration of its canal. It is converted into a solid rope, which is gradually made thinner by absorption. In cases of wound, how is this obstruction effected ? The coagulation of the blood is so evident an attendant, and so apparently fitted mechanically to shut the vessel, that it is not surprising that it should, from remote times, have been considered as the imme- diate cause. Albucasis advises the artery to be compressed with the finger until the blood congeal, and Lanfranc says the pressure should be continued for an hour. Fabricius adopts the same opinion, and gives the same advice, but directs the attention to two different portions of coagulum, one lying within, the other without the vessel, “ obstruitur osculum, vel intrinsecus, vel extrinsecus.” Little attention, however, seems to have been paid to the distinction till Petit, in 1731, revived and explained, more at large, the doctrine. He gives us, however, nothing new, except terms, calling the internal clot, buchon, the external, couvercle. He likewise notices that the internal clot may be formed by lymph, which he considers as preferable to that formed by blood. A few years afterwards, Morand said, that if the clot could suspend the haemorrhage for some time, the permanent cure was to be looked for from the artery contracting and cicatrizing, but he wasmore inclined to attribute theimmediate cause to the corru- gation or froncement of the artery, so that it became thicker, and its mouth shut up. T. his, he supposed, erroneously, to arise from the shortening of the longitudinal fibres. Mr. Sharp, without entering into theory, plainly says, the bleeding con- tinues till the arteries contract and withdraw themselves, and their extremities be shut up with coagulated blood. Pouteau looked on both, viz. the coagulation of blood and the contrac- tion of the vessel, merely as subsidiary circumstances not always occurring, and ascribed the cessation of the haemor- rhage to the pressure made on the artery by the swelling of the neighbouring cellular substance around its extremity, and says the ligature is useful by promoting a more immediate and extensive induration of that substance, which is just as correct as to say an experienced general obtains the