20.5 only be allowable in the few cases where they relieve pain, and speedily abate the redness. It has been said that a burned part, almost immediately, from the temporary action of an excessive stimulus, sinks into a state of debility, whilst the system is apt to sink along with it. By applying another powerful stimulus, as a substitute for that ol the heat, it was supposed that the action should be kept up, the part supported, and the sensation lessened. This, I fear, was an opinion founded rather on the notions of Brown, than on the ground of experience. It doubtless is true, that sometimes the application of a stimulus does, by changing the action and the sensation, not only give relief, but also contributes to cure the inflammation. This is seen in the effect of certain stimulants and narcotics in some stages ol ophthalmia. The temporary smarting produced by them is followed by relief. The application of vinegar to a scalded or burned part, sometimes abates the pain, but it always first causes smarting, and never does good unless the relief be speedy: a popular remedy is salt mixed with butter, and another advice is to hold the burned part for some time near the fire. Neither of these are generally useful. If a part have been scalded it is very tender and sensible, and is affected much moie than in its natural state, by change of tempera- ture. Cold air or cold water may give much pain even in a very superficial and slight burn, and in that case raising the temperature a little, gives relief. The rule is to be founded on the effect on sensation. Other mild stimulants have been proposed, such as linseed oil and lime water, or lime water mixed with milk; and these not being of an active nature, often agree well with the part, as together with the cloth used, they afford a soft defence to the exposed surface. But the proposal has been pushed much farther, and the strono- stimulus of oil ol turpentine alone,-or mixed with resinous ointment, has been recommended by way of keeping up the action of the part, and when that came to be more re-estab- lished, the proportion ol turpentine was diminished. \ye know that turpentine applied to sound skin inflames it, and ® priori we should expect a higher degree of inflammation to