471 sickness, with nausea or vomiting. In other cases, there is no marked affection of the stomach, but a sensation of coldness, although the skin be actually of an increased temperature. The pulse becomes frequent, and sometimes full and hard. The bowels are disordered, generally inactive. The nervous system is affected; there is a feeling of lassitude, and almost always of restlessness, and not unfrequently more or less deli- rium. The breathing is sometimes oppressed, and there may be pain in the chest, but it is doubtful if these symptoms appear unless arteritis have taken place. It is quite conceiv- able that these effects should, in some instances, exhaust the patient, and that he should sink at last, under circumstances much resembling those which terminate a common fevex*. But much oftenei*, either gangrene takes place, or hae morrhage occurs. In oi’der to lessen the hazard of the artei'y being injui'ed to a greater degree than was necessary by the ligature, it has been proposed to apply it only for a short time. Mr. Hodgson applied three ligatures to the carotid artery within the sixth of an inch of each othei’, and immediately removed them. The animal was examined three months afterwards, when the canal was found to be only straitened. Mr. Travers tried on the horse a longer application, from one to six houi’s, after which the ligature was removed, and the tube was obliterated in consequence of the injui’y. M. Maunoii’, improving on this idea, proposes merely to squeeze the artei'y with a pair of forceps. Othei’s have tried the effect, even on the human subject, of applying, for some houi’s, a broad tape, or compres- sing the artery by one mean or other, for twenty-four horn's, and fortunately without damage. From my own expei’iments and obsei'vations, I would be inclined to doubt the efficacy of temporai-y compression, and to discredit altogethei', that of merely tying the vessel, and then removing the ligature. I am convinced, that the safest plan is to tie the artery as usual. The ligature of reserve being exploded, I need not use any argument against it. Whether we look at the local consequences, or the general condition induced after the operation, we shall find that the danger much oftener arises from excitement and overaction,