431 ing of an wounded artery, “ ligatur cum filo ligatione forti.” Succeeding surgeons almost invariably notice the same prac- tice. But with too many it was more a speculative opinion than a practised method. It was generally restricted to haemorrhage from accidental wounds, particularly of the smaller arteries. In all regular operations, as well as in many casual wounds, the cautery was chiefly employed. Pare contributed much to the more general introduction ol the ligature. Pie tied the artery in different ways with the needle, as had indeed been done before him. For sometime ihe, in the old way, first passed the curved needle in a semi- circle along one side of the artery, and next along the other, and then tying the ligature firmly, compressed the vessel and the substance which immediately surrounded it; or he plunged the needle under the artery a little higher than the wound, and tied both the artery and the intervening substance. But his best and neatest mode was to pull out the mouth of the artery with a pair of forceps, and then tie it. Such was the practice of Pare, and though it was long and violently resisted, the ligature came at last into general use, and is now employed in preference to all other means. It will, therefore, be proper shortly to inquire into its mode of acting, and into the best way of applying it. Previous to the time of Desault, little attention was paid to its modus operandi. It was known mechanically to check hmmorrhage, and to do so permanently, and different explanations might be given according to the theories which have been already noticed. Desault remarked that the ligature cut the internal and arterial coat, whilst the external coat resisted it. This division of the internal fabric was supposed to lead to direct adhesion, and Bichat afterwards detailed more at length the properties of the different coats, and endeavoured to connect facts with physiology. Dr. Jones afterwards took up the same view of the matter, and even admitted that it was not essentially necessary to con- tinue the ligature, in order to obtain adhesion. For he tied the carotid artery of a dog tightly, so as to divide the internal coat, which breaks more easily than the external, and imme- diately removed the ligature. On killing the dog afterwards,