47 6 There are instances where the sac becomes so thickly lined with coagulum, as to form a solid mass, with the exception of a canal in the centre through which the blood passes. This is one way in which a natural cure takes place, or rather in which the progress of the disease is checked. For although it be possible for absorption of the lining to take place, and the coats of the artery to contract, so as to assume more of the natural condition, yet this change is never perfect, and is more hypothetical than proved. On the other hand, the parietes, so long as they remain thick and padded with coagulum or fibrin, are never to be trusted. They may last for life, but they may also go wrong, and the tumour, like others, may inflame and perish. The only perfect security, then, is obliteration. Some natural causes which we cannot explain may produce languid circulation, and lead to this. Others are more evident. It has, for example, been found, that the sac has so extended over the arterial tube entering into it, and so pressed upon it, as to obstruct the circulation, and cause obliteration. Artificial means have been resorted to for producing coagulation, or restraining the impetus of the blood. One mode consists in keeping the patient very low, avoiding every thing which can excite the system; nay, absolutely starving him, and, at the same time, we are ad- vised to aid this by venesection. This was so strongly enforced by Valsalva as to be called his method. He bled freely, and confined the patient to half a pound of light pudding for breakfast, a quarter of a pound for supper, and his drink, which was only water, was also restricted to a moderate allow- ance. By these means he brought his patient into a state ol weakness so great, that he could scarcely lift his hand in bed. Then the aliment was gradually given in greater quan- tity, and when the strength returned, the aneurism was ex- pected to be cured. We have seen that there is a species ot aneurism, if we define the disease so as to admit it, where the artery is simply dilated, and in such cases this plan may be of service, if not pushed to an unreasonable degree; but it is very difficult during life to draw the diagnosis. In aneurism of the aorta, and in other aneurisms so situated as not to