122 mation, and it will only remain to be determined whether they be diminished in their power. If their power be dimi- nished, and the action also lessened, so must their functions be impaired. If the action be not diminished, the circulation ought to go on ; if it be diminished, the evolution of heat, &c. should be lessened, as well as the motion impeded. If the power alone be diminished, the circulation should continue at least as long as the power in any degree remained. Simple debility, then, of the capillaries, even with the aid of increased action of the branches, cannot explain the phenomena. Next, if the capillary arteries cannot carry on the blood into the capillary veins, it must either be from obstruction, arising from viscidity and error loci, as Boerhaave supposed, and as the modern pathologists admit to exist, or it must be from weak- ness. It cannot be from the former, for we know that heat, or sometimes cold, as, for instance, ice, or struggling, and in some instances stimulants, renew for a time the motion; but if these cease to act, the motion also ceases. Now the passage having been once opened up, and kept pervious for some time, it ought to continue till the cure were accomplished; or if suspended, a new effort should complete the recovery. It cannot be from mere debility, otherwise heat and all manner of stimulants should cure the disease; and as the struggle of the frocr renewed the circulation, so ought exercise in a man to cure inflammation, particularly if aided by wine. And if we call in the other part of the doctrine, namely, an increased action of the trunk or larger branches, we should, whatever the cause of stagnation were, get it overcome, and indeed should have no stagnation at all, unless the obstruction were greater in proportion than the increased action. Farther, if inflam- mation consist in stagnation of the blood in the capillaries, from debility or any other cause, and with or without increased action of the larger branches, it is evident, that if we be correct in our notion, that a change of blood and circulation of blood be necessary to the existence of a part, the inflamed part must very soon die; and long before death, indeed almost immediately on the induction of inflammation, ought to be in a state of torpor and insensibility. If we tie the