3(20 by pressure. If situated, as it often is, on the forehead, or under a fascia, it is elastic, seems to contain a fluid, and much resembles an encysted tumour, but if punctured nothing but blood flows. We must not confound these tumours with the superficial discoloration of the skin, known under the name of naevus maternus. This has its seat in the retiform texture, or rete- mucosum, and often depends merely on a peculiarity in the colouring matter, which resembles claret more or less diluted. When the colour is brown, the patch is called a mole. In many instances the red patch is distinctly produced by a congeries of vessels containing red blood, although occupying the situation of the capillary system. It may therefore be supposed nearly allied to the disease we have been consider- ing ; but it is neither prominent nor deep, nor does it extend laterally, except in proportion with the growth of the part where it is seated. It seems to be dependant merely on an unusual size, but not a diseased state ol the vessels. If these neevi ever end in tumour, it is of the venous kind. It has been-proposed to cure these by the continued application of cold water; but this never succeeds. Pressure is as unsuc- cessful, unless it be steadily applied to such an extent as to alter the organization, or obliterate the vessels. Effective application of caustic is the most certain mean; but it must be considered whether the scar it leaves would be more or less unseemly than the disease to be removed. When the placentary tumour, or aneurism by anastomosis, forms under a fascia, we are deprived of the diagnostic marks taken from its external appearance. There is some degiee of tension or swelling of the part, varying according to the degree of activity of the vascular system ; a sensation ot throb- bin^ and of pain in proportion to the sensibility of the parts in the vicinitv. These diagnostics are indeed somewhat obscure, and the real nature of the disease may not be discovered for a long time; but whenever we find a tumour varying according to the activity of the vascular system, and attended with heat and throbbing, we should be on our guard. The nature of such a form of the disease is well illustrated by a case which