438 immediately above it, whilst low inflammation sometimes creeps up along the internal coat. The causes of this formid- able condition are various; sometimes it is attributable to the diseased texture of the vessel, sometimes to the unhealthy condition of the neighbouring parts, which are in a state of foul abscess or suppuration. Atmospheric influence, or the application of the infection of hospital gangrene, may also produce this state. Disorders of the general constitution, particularly that condition met with in drunkards, rendering them liable to erysipelas, is another cause. Mere debility is not to be dreaded, for those who have suffered much from previous loss of blood, are not more liable than others to failure of the ligature. There must also be an unhealthy state, whether that be called irritable, or leading to effusions, low inflammation, &c. Even where there is no disorder of the constitution, or no particular disease of the artery, or of the neighbouring parts, the application of a degree of irritation, or the excitement of a degree of action disproportioned to the power of the vessel, must be productive of mischief. Hence violent inflammation may cause failure either from sloughing, or more particularly from suppuration. Adventitious circum- stances debilitating the artery must be productive of the same effect. Hence, detaching the artery extensively from its con- nexion with the neighbouring cellular substance, and thereby destroying to the $>ame extent the vasa vasorum, must incapa- citate the vessel for adhesion, and if it do not die, it must fii st suppurate and then bleed. It must then be a rule nevei to detach or separate more of an artery than is just sufficient to have a ligature correctly applied round it; and if more have been insulated in any way, we should apply the ligature close by the remaining connexion of the upper part of the artery with the substance in which it is imbedded. Taking up too much substance with the vessel is considered as a cause of haemorrhage, but it is more imaginary than real. The older surgeons often included much of the surrounding substance, and however reprehensible the practice might be, yet it did not occasion failure so frequently as is pretended. It has also been supposed, that if the artery be tied very near