GO examine this in a healthy state, we find that a small plexus of vessels runs along the intervals of the rings, and sends off, up and down, branches along the inside ol the membrane, which has a slightly plicated appearance. Nothing like cryptae can be seen. W hen inflammation begins, irregular patches form of ramiform vessels, which increase till the surface appears like a network; but here and there we have a thick congeries. The mucous coat becomes a little thicker and rougher, pulpy, and of a redness more or less deep; it is also presently more easily detached. In the earliest stage, it is covered with a thin layer of mucus little changed. When the inflamma- tion is fully established, the surface is dry, and continues nearly so in many cases for some time, so that if the patient die at this period, the surface has very little, if any mucus on it; or, as happens in cases of wound, it is smeared over with thin pasty looking lymph. Presently, the glands or follicles begin to be excited to secretion, and muco-purulent matter is formed. The secretion naturally is not great; and in slight degrees of inflammation, it is not much increased, and slowly changes to yellow. In higher degrees, particularly if the follicles participate, the secretion is longer of being established, and sometimes there is either extravasation of blood or effusion of fibrin, forming a false membrane, as it is called. At the upper part, this is more apt to take place; and there, we also have often albumenoils or fibrinous effusion, into the submucous cellular substance, producing a great thick- ening, and consequently contraction of the passage. This oedematous appearance is also frequent in the prepuce. In the larvnx it is often fatal, and is known under the name of •/ laryngial oedema, but it is an inflammatory affection. Some- times the epiglottis is involved. The inflammation of this coat is generally, however, confined to itself, or at most does not go beyond the cellular tissue, or it may begin in this tissue, and the membrane itself may only he affected in a secondary way. The proper structure of the trachea is rarely inflamed, though sometimes we find a few red vessels in its substance. In the same way, we find that the ramifications are often highly inflamed, and yet the lungs, through which