222 nnd tossing from pain, rather than anxiety. If the patient vomit, the egesta are either bilious, or consist merely of the drink. The countenance is expressive of pain, and the face sometimes ruddy, but it may be pale. In the second stage, there is tumefaction more or less of the abdomen,—more general sensibility, and sometimes so much tenderness that the weight of the clothes cannot be borne,—the breathing is generally somewhat difficult,—the pulse is more rapid and weaker, and that whether it be small or fuller than formerly. When vomit- ing takes place, the fluid thrown up is darker, and sometimes feculent. The countenance is sunk, and the strength depressed. In this stage, the pain also is apt to be aggravated in particular parts, by accession of inflammation in portions which formerly were not affected, or sudden increase of it where it already existed. Towards the fatal end of this stage, the general pain often abates, and may even go altogether off, whilst the tumefaction increases, and the breathing becomes more difficult, the vomiting more frequent, accompanied with hiccup, and the strength rapidly fails. The duration of these two stages is variable, but neither are ever long, for I do not speak here of what has been called chronic peritonitis. The first stage generally passes over in a few hours, but the time cannot be definitely fixed. Still some guidance may be derived from the period of the disease. Now, it is only in the first stage that we can really do good'; this is a fearful hazard, for if we fail, we only hasten the evil by the debility induced by our remedies. The call, then, is most importunate for prompt and vigorous interference, at a time when we have some chance of success. We must bleed instantly, and we may bleed freely at first, but never dare bleed long and repeatedly ; for if we do not speedily check the inflammation, the very means that we have been using will hurry it on sooner to the second stage, in which venesection can do no good, but aggravates the evil. We must be guided by the effects of depletion, and partly by the period of the disease. In the commencement, if no material benefit be derived from venesection, that is no reason why it should not be soon repeated ; but it is not so at a late period, for then if