468 tliat the sac participates in the general excitation of the member, and then we shall not wonder that occasionally it should swell after the operation, and inflame, or even slough. Looking at these evils, it is obvious, that when we add to them the effect produced on the constitution by the ligature of an artery, it would be desirable to pei'form the operation at a time when the collateral branches might be supposed to have already enlarged, and the limb to have got over the immediate evils of the changes I have mentioned. This led, I doubt not, to a proposal to delay the operation as long as possible, in order that the anastomosing branches might have enlarged. But there is not one advice, in all surgery, more contrary to sound and correct principle, dhe collateral branches cannot enlarge, unless the sac be more or less obstructed, and in that case there is a chance of a sponta- neous cure. Every day that we delay, increases the injury to the limb, and at last we have a distended and debilitated sac, an cedematous leg, a trustless condition of the artery, and a constitution prone to disease. The wonder in such circumstances is, not that the operation should fail, but that it should ever succeed. Much may be said in favour of an early operation, but nothing—no, not the most trifling specu- lation, if we except the poor and forlorn hope of a spontaneous cure, in support of an hour’s delay. I much suspect that many limit their views to the sound or unhealthy state of the artery where it is tied; or if they extend then appiehensions farther than a failure from the condition of the ti unk, confine them to the simple effect of diminished circulation on the limb. I wish most decidedly to impress the student with the belief, that the mere tying of an artery is a serious operation. Let him select any one trunk he will, and tie it, he shall find the constitution to suffer much more than can be accounted for, merely by the extent of wound necessary for the ope- ration. It will at once be said that there is also the state of the limb below to be taken into account, and, doubtless, this is worthy of most serious consideration, from its effects on the system. But, independent of this, the mere injury, inflicted on the arterial tube, has a powerful influence on the