152 we durst bleed no more, either generally or locally, and can hardly hope for a cure from blisters, when yet a perfect recovery has taken place by producing and keeping up a free discharge from a blistered surface by savin ointment. Blisters are, however, at no time to be applied to weak or delicate patients, unless there be a probability of success, and therefore should not be rashly repeated where they have already been found useless. They are productive of weakness sometimes in a very great degree, and in some instances, partly from irrita- tion, partly from sloughing, they kill the patient, who might not have been destroyed by the disease. In all inflammations with any tendency to what is called putridity,_ as cynanche maligna, &c. they are most dangerous. They must be cautiously used in infancy. When the means for arresting acute inflammation have been freely used, and so flu* perhaps successfully, but the part is in a hesitating state, the new organization still remaining, and prone, on the slightest cause, to a renewal of the acute inflammatory action, it may be naturally asked, whether any medicine capable of altering the action could be employed, as, for example, mercury. This is readily answered in the affirmative by most writers, in so far as some particular organs are concerned, particularly the liver. But there are many other cases where it may be useful, and is proved by experience to be so. Prudently administered, it completes the cure ol inflammation of mucous membranes, which sometimes neither bleeding nor blistering could do. It is also of efficacy in many cases of articular inflammation. It is a powerful means of restoring the testicle to health, when it is swollen from the , continuance of a half smothered inflammation. Nor is its utility confined to such cases; for both in cutaneous and parenchyyiatie inflammation, in iritis, and indeed in most cases of simple inflammation, for it is useless, if not positively hurtful in many specific inflammations, as scrofula, cancer, See. it is a remedy not to be disregarded. But two circumstances must be attended to. First, That it is not to supersede the use of depletion, and the other means advised; for even if it had more power than it actually possesses, it is too slow to be