220 little effect, except in so far as they act on the stomach anil bowels, and thereby remove an additional cause of derange- ment. Pain is a powerful stimulant to disease, and there- fore must be allayed by opium. This was recommended as a specific by Pott, but it is only useful in so far as it lessens sensibility, and, as it only mitigates one source of exasperation, it cannot be looked on as infallible; nevertheless this object is too important to be viewed in a secondary light. 1 he dose must be such as to produce relief, and must be repeated as often as the pain returns. By determining the modus operandi, we can be at no loss in regulating the dose. Local applications used to be made, after scarification through the insensible surface, but the plan of scarifying is now given up, and at the most the detached or insensible skin is removed, to allow applications to come in contact with the more sensible parts. But even this is of doubtful piopiiet}, and applications can only be expected to do good in those cases where the skin is red and still alive. Then camphorated spirits may be used, if it have a good sensitive effect Atten- tion to temperature is of much consequence. We should prevent the part from being too cold, and preserve the heat by wrapping it in wool, but must not excite it by heated appli- cations. Cold is another cause of debility, and by the subduction o the stimulus of heat, the same effect may be produced as by the stoppage of the circulation. In either case the part may be directly killed, or die, but this can hardly be called disease, for it dies without any previous action, and rather from cessa- tion of action, owing to a negative rather than a positive cause. It is, however, incredible to what extent a necessary stimulus may be withdrawn and yet life continue, so far as to exhibit some reaction when stimuli are applied. A part, for instance, may be actually frozen without dying, but from this low state it is difficult to restore it to health, for the renewed action rises into disease, and kills the part. W hen a certain degree of cold is applied, the skin becomes purple, and pain is felt. If a greater degree be suddenly applied, the sensation is that of burning, but this in extreme cases is