sure requisite for the security of the patient, can hardly fail to produce obliteration ; and whatever the result of experi- ments on animals may be, I doubt if half a dozen authenti- cated cases Can be brought forward from all the records of surgery, where an wounded artery has permanently healed without obliteration. If, indeed, the artery be punctured through a superjacent vein, and steady, but moderate com- pression be immediately resorted to, it is possible that the pressure may be just sufficient, with the aid of a small coagu- lum in the wound of the artery and vein, or a coagulum within the vein, to restrain the haemorrhage, and even prevent blood from flowing into the vein, and yet it may not be so great as to stop quite the circulation along the tube of the artery; and the coagulum being slowly absorbed, and in the same proportion the wound contracting and coalescing, the tube may be once more made entire. But more frequently the coagulum also occupies the vein, which becomes obliterated at the spot, and forms a cord, which, adhering to the artery, closes its aperture, and the circulation continues in the tube. I have seen such cases, and it is the circumstance of the blood being confined within the venous tube, and not diffused into cellular substance, and distending it, which renders the cure more likely. On the other hand, where an artery is wounded directly, and not through a vein, the blood is diffused, and so much pressure is requisite to stop the farther effusion, that the sides are quite squeezed together, and adhesion, or obliter- ation, takes place. The effect, however, of interruption of the function of an artery in causing obliteration may be counteracted by low inflammation, or other diseased states of the internal coat. There may be extensive inflammation, and yet no obliteration, but, on the contrary, a positive prevention of it. It can only cease to bleed by ceasing to be pervious. Some arteries become readily obliterated, some do not, after beino- wounded. In some, therefore, we shall have a natural Cure°; in others, if art do not interfere, all the consequences which can result from continued haemorrhage must take place. This difference in the result takes place, ceteris paribus, from