227 speedily lost, sensation being destroyed. When a part is frostbit, as it is called, it is sometimes truly frozen, and during that time is generally white and hard, and senseless, oi it may, without being frozen, become cold and pale as that of a dead body. It is when action is rising that it becomes pin pie, anc^ ^ee^s as ^ on fire. It is important to attend, however, to the distinction between that death or mortifica- tion, which directly proceeds from failure or abstraction of stimulus or support, and that produced indirectly through the agency of previous inflammation. The former is similar to mortification, following on division of arteries. It is the mere death of the part without previous disease, and it requires much prudence to act so as to prevent direct sinking without occasioning dangerous excitation. When the whole body is exposed to great cold, it becomes torpid or sluggish and the mind participates, so that drowsiness comes on, and if indulged, the person falls into a sleep from which he never awakes. But if this be prevented, and yet the effect have been strong, he appears as if intoxicated, looks wild, and speaks x lstinctly. This was remarked by Captain Parry, who wit- nessed the effects of a temperature so low as—54°. Exposure for a very short time indeed to this degree of cold, without defence, must destroy the vitality of the extreme parts, and even an almost momentary exposure must cause great danger If after being frozen the hand be plunged in water, the sur- face of the skin becomes covered with ice, and yet the whole o the fiozen part does not necessarily die. Hildanus mentions a man who after being greatly cooled, was immersed in water «nd had all his body covered with a crust of ice, which shows that Ins skin had been cooled below the freezing point This man, says he, got a good glass of hydromel and cloves,' which procured linn a sweat, and he recovered with only the W of >e last joints of his upper and under extremities. I need not WdoL'i'ntheTe'cIser1 W1 perSpjration must be cold below zero, the^, che£ 3 ^ ^ £ 611 and kllled dlrect]y> so that inflammation cannot take