389 sure, it is no wonder that the proposal met with very limited encouragement. It was not till after the middle ol the last century that adhesion could be considered as forming a main or essential object in the performance of operations, and even then its real value was not thoroughly understood. From the practice occasionally adopted at an earlier period, it was estab- lished, that the skin of one man might be made to unite to the body of another; nay, if we may credit authority, it was determined, that a man might be indebted to a dog for the propago affixed to his skull. Du Hamel afterwards trans- planted the spur of a cock to the leg of a hen, and Mr. Hunter made a tooth unite with the comb of a cock. I have, for a time, made the comb of a cock adhere to the skull of a kitten. 'I his, which may appear to have been a very useless experi- ment, nevertheless illustrated a principle which never should be lost sight of in attempting adhesion, namely, the communi- cation of action from the neighbouring parts to that which is either replaced or applied, in a degree greater than its power is capable of safely sustaining. If two surfaces, formed by a mere incision in a healthy part, be laid together, the intermedium no doubt is less perfect in texture than the neighbouring parts, if by perfection we mean similitude to these parts. But being- very thin, and produced equally by both surfaces, its real power is little, if at all, inferior to that of the surface which formed it. It is, therefore, capable of acting in concert with it, and in the same degree. But if a considerable portion of substance have been almost entirely detached, and particu- larly if that portion have been bruised or injured, it must be considerably weaker than the rest of the member, and when laid down and connected again, or united with the member, and called again to act in concert with it, it is evident that a weak part is called on to act with one which is stronger. The same effect must be produced as if two horses of unequal strength, swiftness, and spirit, were yoked together; either the one must be reined in, or the other must be exhausted. Either we must keep down, then, the action of the limb by cold applications, and a state of strict rest, or we must have the weak flap which had been laid down destroyed by the