480 The sac soon is incapable of permitting even a languid circu- lation, owing to the coagulation of the blood. But in aneu- rismal varix, there is nothing to prevent a free retrograde circulation ; and in proportion as that takes place, the limb below must be deprived of blood, and the enlargement of the branches checked. If, then, we be ever to operate in this disease, we must tie both ends of the artery, otherwise the limb is sure to die. It is indeed in an evil hour that an ope- ration is proposed for the cure of aneurismal varix. There is scarcely a recorded instance where it has been necessary, or where the varix, if left to itself, ever proved fatal, or even interfered with the avocations of life. I can say, that whether the patient were a female, who gained her livelihood by con- stant sewing, or a collier, constantly working with the pick- axe, the tumour has remained alike stationary. The only period at which an accident, such as I am considering, can require an operation, is that immediately or speedily follow- ing the injury, and when we cannot safely by pressure con- trol the haemorrhage, perhaps from the extent of the wound or condition of the integuments. Then, indeed, whatever vessel may have been opened, we must expose it at the injured part, and tie both ends. In this case, no varix has formed, otherwise an operation would not have been required. Also, if, when both artery and veins are injured, the wound in the integuments alone should heal, but the artery and the vein do not remain in contact, nor their respective wounds opposite to, and connected with, each other, then we have a false aneurism produced, and the ordinary treatment required for that must be resorted to. The appearance produced by this, which has, without much reason, been called varicose aneurism, is partly that of false aneurism, partly of aneurismal varix, for there is a combination of both. There is the false or diffused aneu- rism under the strong fascia, and in so far circumscribed by it and its attachments. This pulsates like any other aneu- rism, but also, like other false aneurisms, cannot be emptied. It communicates with the vein, which is distended into a varix, and exhibits the character of the aneurismal varix, the hissing or whirl, &c. This disease, unlike the varix, is not to