463 the same ardour, he perhaps went farther, from being obliged to trust to his own resources, and left unfettered by current opinions. Pie proposed to leave the sac entire, and apply a ligature farther up on the main trunk leading to it. For instance, on the femoral artery, in the case of popliteal aneu- rism. This at least got rid of two evils. It led to the appli- cation of the ligature to a sound part of the artery, and it avoided all the evils resulting from the exposure of the sac. But it was productive of a benefit incalculably greater, for it laid the foundation of a bold and scientific practice, which has not yet perhaps been carried to its full extent. It is not detracting from Mr. Hunter’s merit to admit, that others had adopted the same practice before him, for he not only did not know of this, but went beyond them, inasmuch as he pro- ceeded on principle, and established a distinct, and scien- tific rule. AEtius and Paulus are by no means entitled to the merit; and Guillemeau and Thevenin repeat merely their directions. Guillemeau, in a case of aneurism at the bend of the arm, tied the artery three finger breadth below the axilla, and afterwards opened the aneurism, washed, and dressed it with iEgyptiacum. He adds, that if an aneurism should appear in any other part, he would expose the artery near its root, and tie it in the same way, sans autre cere- monie.” If by this expression he mean that he would dis- pense with the opening of the sac, then he is the first who took this view of the subject, but it is not so clear that this is his meaning. Anel seems to have been the first who prac- tised the modern operation. When at Rome, he performed, on the 30th of January, 1710, his operation on a missionary, who had an aneurism at the bend of the arm. He exposed the brachial artery above the tumour, and tied it with two ligatures. Then finding that the pulsation in the aneurism had ceased, he did no more. Next day, the pulse was felt at the wrist. The first ligature came away on the 17th, the second on the 27th day. He sayshe left the sac entire, being convinced that the blood would be dispersed of its own accord. Mr. Hunter, in October 1785, proposed, on sound principles, to tie the femoral artery in popliteal aneurism, and performed the operation successfully.