‘24,0 that steps leading to obliteration, are as often productive of coagulation, as produced by it. The vessel participates in the inflammation which is of a healthy kind now, and is fol- lowed, as it would be in any other instance, by adhesion, and the separation takes place by the suppurative process, acting on this obliterated or adhering portion. Were it to travel upwards it would open the artery, but it only goes in a line through it like a knife. If we apply nitrate of silver, or any other acrid substance, to the web of a frog’s foot, we find that even before a slough form, the vessels cease to circulate blood, and in some places seem to be empty; in others, the fluid is pale and dusky. Then, round the slough, the vessels are red and numerous, and the circulation distinct, but the blood never goes into the dead part, the arteries end in the veins, and a kind of border of vessels is formed round the dead margin, just as formerly we found at the natural margin of the web, but more distinct. What happens in the frog, takes place in other mortifications, and therefore no haemorrhage can take place unless the vessels open by sup- puration. Mortification is the death of the part, and may be accom- plished in various ways. A ligature applied with sufficient tightness around the finger, will destroy that finger, with- out any interference of inflammation. The exposure of the finger, after being frostbit, to a slight degiee of heat, is productive of the same event, through the intervention of inflammation. As one man may die by the hands of the executioner, and another by a pleurisy, so may two parts become mortified in different ways. Inflammation is not necessary to the production of mortification; even the pre- existence of great pain is no proof that inflammation has been present. Cramp may prove speedily fatal, merely as a disease of sensation. It may produce gangrene, without any previous inflammation; or it may end in inflammation. Alkaline caustic produces directly a slough or complete sphacelus, to the full satisfaction of the strictest nosologist, without any previous inflammation. There is great pain undoubtedly, and inflammation may affect subsequently the neighbouring