391 mation. This must be obviated by suitable means. If the condition be local, it will generally be found dependant on the operation of some local excitation, which must be removed; we must therefore attend to the position of the parts, to the degree of pressure, to the stitches, the temperature, &c. If dependant on constitutional causes, these must, as far as we can, be obviated by strict attention to the bowels, regulation of the diet, and mild diaphoretics, conjoined, if there be no contra indication, with opiates. Another state of the system, of which susceptibility, or sometimes irritability, forms a part, but not the principal character, is that produced by intem- pex-ance. There is superadded to the irritable state, one of debility, that kind of debility which renders the natural action of a part very ready not only to sink in degree, but to become disordered in quality. In such habits, inflammation of what is called the low kind, is apt to supervene, even on slight injuries, especially if these be accompanied with irrita- tion or contusion. This is also the case in cedematous habits. An opposite condition to this, namely, torpor of the system, may be supposed also to prevent adhesion by incapacitating the surfaces for assuming the necessary action. This, how- ever, I believe, is rarely the case, and torpor, in this view of the matter, exists oftener in speculation than in reality. In almost every instance where it is supposed to operate, it will be found that low inflammation has taken place. Another cause of failure is the preternatural excitement consequent on acute sensation. Wherever there is much pain in divided parts, we are sure that inflammation, not adhesion, is to follow. We ought, therefore, to take the earliest means of allaying sensation. If this depend merely on the particular state of the nervous fibrilli, evinced by the suddenness of the attack, and the absence at first of inflammatory symptoms, we should give immediately a full anodyne, and have recourse to cold or tepid applications, according to their effect. On the other hand, when inflammation, even of what is called the healthy or vigorous kind, is approaching, or has taken place, indicated by the general or local symptoms belonging to it, and already described, we must lose no time in detracting blood, in remov-