146 apt to occur than in other cases. CEdema may take place in the limb, after the application of the ligature, from two sources. From the increased action of the minute branches, producing exhalation ; or, from the diminished action of the absorbents. In the first case, we have the marks of increased action, already pointed out, and it is to be treated accordingly. In the second, there is more languor of circulation, and less heat. In this case we may have recourse to very gentle fric- tion continued for some time, and support the parts lightly with a roller. Gangrene also appears under two circum- stances. It may proceed more directly from languor of cir- culation following quickly upon the diminution of tempera- ture ; or it may occur more evidently as a consequence of the excitement of the part, and this is known by its being pre- ceded by increase of temperature. For the treatment of the limb, under these circumstances, I refer to what has already been said respecting gangrene. As to the question of ampu- tation, however dangerous the operation may be, there can be no hesitation in the first case, namely, when there has been no increase of temperature, or accession of inflammation, to pro- ceed as in other instances of traumatic gangrene, to amputate above the ligature, if the state ol the patient do not forbid it. The chance may be a bad one, but nothing is to be gained by delay. In the second case, namely, where gangrene is pre- ceded by increased temperature and excitement dispropor- tioned to the power of the part, it may be plausibly uiged, that we ought to follow the rule of delaying till the gangiene be checked. But after all the attention I have been able to give to this subject, I am satisfied that the decision must lest on the state of the limb above the ligature. We need not be guided by that of the lower part, for the gangrene arises from local, and not from constitutional causes. It the limb above the lioature be free from preternatural action, and otherwise healthy, we may amputate as safely, early as late. And dan- gerous as the operation must be under the most favourable circumstances, we can hardly expect to lessen that danger by waiting in expectation of a line ot separation. But where the portion above the ligature is pretematurally hot, some-