359 Thirdly, we find a more distinct tubercle appear, almost always oblong in its shape, and more elevated as we proceed from the circumference to the centre, something like half a bean. The margin is sometimes defined, but oftener short irregular prolongations extend to the circumjacent parts. Ihe sur- face is sometimes smooth, or even glazed ; in other instances irregular, as if subdivided by bands. The colour of the tubercle is sometimes white, like an elevated cicatrix, more fre- quently it is livid or pui'ple ; the bands are oftener observed in the white than in the red species; presently the surface becomes a little abraded, a scab is formed, and ultimately we have a sore, as in the former cases. Such tubercles may be solitary, or several may be clustered together*, or they may appear on distant parts of the body. The red tubercle has at first much the appearance of those tubercles which I have mentioned as sometimes covering a cancerous breast, and which have been called, by the old French writers, cancerous buttons; but these latter are rounder in their shape, and ter- minate in a different kind of sore. The furfuraceous spot is the most frequent appearance when the disease appears at the inner canthus of the eye, or on the wing of the nose. The wart is more common about the cheek; both the one and the other are also met with on the temple. The oblong- tubercle is oftenest met with on the trunk, sometimes near the fold of the pectoral muscle, much oftener on the back or shoulder. The sore produced in this disease is superficial, but deeper at the centre than at the circumference; it is covered with tenacious, whitish matter, and sometimes a thinner ichor runs also from it; its margins are red or inclined to purple, and have a fiery appearance; the sensation is that of smarting, al- ternated with much itchiness ; presently new spots come out, if the disease have been of the superficial form, or the origi- nal sore increases, and no longer becomes completely covered with a scab, but the margins are often incrusted. When the whole is exposed, the sore is found to be slightly concave, with a glossy surface covered more or less with tenacious matter. The uncovered portions are generally of a violet colour, but