like an excoriation covered with hard slough, or a tenacious brown coating, through points of which may be seen highly inflamed or sphacelated portions. These sphacelated por- tions are thrown off, but the fever rather increases than diminishes, the pain is severe, and the surface exposed is still fiery and of a violet colour. The erysipelatous inflamma- tion extends, and all the ground is again gone over; the weakness increases, the pulse becomes weaker and more fre- quent, the countenance is ghastly, no food can be received, or if received, retained, the limb often begins to swell, or the lymphatics appear more inflamed like chords, haemor- rhages are apt to occur, or a general oozing of bloody serum sinks the patient. Death is preceded by hiccup, and those symptoms which usually attend dissolution from mortification. This disease, we have seen, is decidedly infectious; but we are at a loss with regard to its origin. It is a matter of fact, that it is apt to break out in crowded hospitals, especially where due attention is not paid to cleanliness. Even where great attention is given, it sometimes makes its appearance, and it may be stated as a matter of fact, that erysipelas is usually prevalent about the same time, from which we would infei that they are somehow connected in a common cause. Hospital gangrene is supposed to have been first distinctly described by Ponteau, 1783, but it appears to have been too well known, practically, to older writers, under the name of ulcus putridum. Pare, who gives us an abstract of his campaigns, says, that at the capture of Rouen, 1562, many died of their wounds both before and after the assault. The air was so bad, says he, that the smallest wound was often fatal, in so much, that it was supposed that the balls were poisoned, and the enemy believed the same on their part. Hippocrates had formerly noticed a similar circumstance i elating to wounds of head, and Morgagni refers to instances °t gangrene attacking all the wounded, Epist. 41, Art. 12 and 13. That it prevailed in the Hotel Dieu in the begin- ning of the last century, we know from La Motte; Another suigeon in the same hospital declares, that every patient w io was operated upon died; and from that time downwards,