169 where the remedy should not be as bad as the disease. The discharges occasioned by inflammation of mucous membranes, are imagined soon to become associated with, or dependant on, imperfect or improper action in the chylopoietic viscera, and mild laxatives and alteratives are prescribed. The state ot these organs is doubtless in every disease to be attended to, and the above evacuations kept correct. But unless where deviations from the healthy condition of these parts are found to exist, I am not disposed to admit the great advantage of these remedies. The local disease, by its irritation, may set these organs wrong, and their deviations may react on the original cause. This is especially the case in children and irritable patients; but in not a few cases, the green stools are the effect ol the calomel given, and not of the disease, which would just as readily yield to a course of diuretics, as a course of purgatives. hen this form of inflammation has passed into a chronic state, we may consider that we have a new gland produced. We have an altered texture, and a different, as well as increased secretion. The effects of this on the health vary according to the function of the part, and the degree of irritation given. In many cases the system is worn out by a species of hectic fever, or by continued bad health : some other complaint is brought on, which more rapidly proves fatal. Various means have been tried for removing this state, such as blisters, issues, mercury, tonics, sea-bathing, &c. All of these are occasion- ally useful, but none of them can be depended on, and such of them as increase irritation, or produce debility, must instantly be abandoned. We do not sufficiently distinguish in our curative views, and hopes of success, between those discharges, which arise from a local irritation, acting on the secreting membrane, and an actual change of structure con- sequent to inflammation. The first may often be cured, the second much more rarely. For instance, the increased dis- charge, which takes place from the mucous membrane of the bladder, in consequence of stricture, may be removed by removing the local cause or stricture, whilst that which epends on previous inflammation, and a change of structure,