109 be no more than as five. ButAlie hand, and particularly the forearm, lias not been sunk to the same extent, though they may have been impaired. The hand may be sunk to ten, and the forearm may be, as at first, at twenty, or a very little below it. Now, we know that there is a sympathy of commu- nication existing, in virtue of which, action is spread more or less, and propagated from a part progressively, and this very soon, and before the power of the finger can rise much from its depression to five. The forearm acting nearly as twenty, communicates action to the hand, and raises it from ten to fifteen; and it again speedily raises the finger in its action fiom five to eight, whilst the power still remains only as five. It is plain, that thus there is the same effect produced as if a direct stimulus, say that of heat, had been applied to the finger, and inflammation takes place. It is not enough, therefore, in such a case, to avoid the application of heat to the part; we must also moderate the action of the neighbourhood, or keep it horn rising, without, however, doing any thing to sink fai ther the action of the part more immediately affected. I might carry on my illustration farther, but will be satisfied with recalling to the recollection of the reader, the case, not at all fanciful, of patients who, having suffered from con- cussion of the brain, have so far recovered and done well, whilst subjected from necessity to abstinence, and perhaps cold, but who have become delirious on having the action of the sys- tem merely so flu- increased as could be done by the sudden comfort of warm clothing, and a little hot soup. In many cases of this description, it is not only dangerous to give stimulants, but it may even be necessary to abstract blood. If the ear of a rabbit be exposed to the action of a freezing mix- ture, it becomes stiff, and even hard and livid, and the blood in the veins freezes. If removed, and no heat be applied, it gradually thaws; but it inflames more or less, becoming hot, and rather redder. The blood thaws and circulates, but it is not ascertained what proportion of blood may be frozen, and thawed, and circulate again without detriment. It is pro- bable that it is very little. Fifth, As the excitement of a pait by increase of a stimulus may be productive of such an