531 borne in this disease, and ought not to be pushed far. It is better to have recourse to the free application of leeches on the pained parts, than to detract much blood from the vessels by the lancet, for we are sure, and that at no late period, to have a state of great depression. Cold applications to the part often are useful; but when these produce shivering, or increase the pain, or give a feeling of weight, they must be exchanged for cloths wet with tepid water. Blisters are proper, if the inflammation be deep seated, and some advise them even if subcutaneous veins be inflamed, but in this opinion I cannot coincide. With regard to purges, these ought not to be given to a greater degree than is necessary to keep the bowels open. The diet should be light and sparing, the drink mild and cooling. If matter form under the fascia, it cannot be let out too soon. Mr. Hunter proposed, as soon as the existence of the disease was discovered, to apply a compress on the vein above, so as to keep its sides together, in hope of producing adhesion, and thereby preventing the farther propagation of inflammation; but, besides the difficulty of applying this pressure without injury to inflamed parts, we now know, too surely, that the disease may prove fatal without spreading continuously, and that we no more can pre- vent the system from suffering, the patient from sinking, or the disease from spreading, by pressure on the vein, than we can by the same means prevent any other sympathetic effect, or the propagation of peritonaeal inflammation. Wounds of lymphatic vessels require no particular treat- ment as to the effusion of their contents. Of the mode in which these wounds heal we are ignorant, except in so far as analogy informs us. We neither can say that punctures heal without obliteration, nor that obliteration is effectual or usual, but with regard to division the case is clear, both from analogy and observation. If much lymph flowed, the vessel not speedily closing, compression, or the use of astringents, not so strong as to act as escharotics, have been proposed, and may be depended on. But the chief effect to be attended to, as following an wound, is inflammation, extending up the trunk, and communicating itself to a greater or less number