S3 centre of the bone. Another, enters by capillary branches into those pores, which are visible on the surface of the bone, or by somewhat larger ramuli into the more distinct orifices intended for their reception. These terminate in the osseous texture, and not on the internal membrane, and their blood is returned by veins which arise from, and indeed line the little canals, and pass out by pores or orifices distinct from the arteries. The osseous part is not the subject, properly speaking, of inflammation, but is often materially affected by it; for the quantity ol earthy deposite is generally dimi- nished. The immediate seat of its action is in the vascular membrane within or without. It is very difficult to produce inflammation, and nothing more, in our experiments; for if we apply irritants to the periosteum, we render it redder and more vascular, and often it detaches itself from the bone, and this, particularly if it have been also acted on, dies without inflaming. If we act in like manner on the medullary mem- brane, we kill the internal parts; or if we apply to a thin bone, as, for instance, the parietal of a rabbit, strong solution of salt, both layers die within forty-eight hours. Starting with the proposition that the membrane is the seat of the disease, I would proceed to say, that whenever this membrane is highly inflamed, and particularly when it is itself destroyed, the bone, that is the substance taken in the aggregate, is not allowed time to inflame or change. It dies to a greater or less extent. Sometimes a mere film perishes, and is absorbed; sometimes the whole thickness perishes. It is only when the outer or inner membranes are slowly inflamed that the texture lives and comes to be altered and inflamed; and the extent of the disease is proportioned to the extent to which the mem- brane and its prolongations, and the cellular tissue are affected. In such cases of inflammation of the bone, we find that less earthy matter, and more fibrin is secreted ; but the deposition of the former is not altogether suspended. The bone is softer or harder, according to the proportion of soft deposite, and is more or less swelled according to the same rule. But in simple inflammation there is less swelling than one would sup- pose, who judges from chronic or specific thickening of the