7 3 symptoms arise sometimes as much from engorgement as' actual inflammation. But most acute inflammations, parti- cularly when the cellular medium is affected, end in suppura- tion. The abscess breaks sooner or later, according to its depth, and the resistance of the fascia; and in some cases it is very tedious. In a few instances, the pus is discharged at the nipple by the lactiferous ducts. If the glandular portion be much inflamed, and the cellular substance extensively sup- purated, one or more lobules die, and are discharged like ash-coloured sloughs. But if the suppuration be rather in the glandular part, and much fibrin have been effused into that and around it, an induration remains, long after the abscess bursts or is opened. Sinuses more or less in number, and varying in their course, are formed; and if these be not laid open early, the cure is either very tedious, or the patient sinks under hectic or remittent fever. Chronic induration often terminates in malignant disease. The lymphatic glands are frequently inflamed, particularly from irritation ol an absorbent, or from certain modifications of suppuration. I have examined, but not often, the appear- ance of these glands when inflamed. They are always swelled more or less, are either hard or elastic; and when cut into, if not injected, have a grayish or buff colour, a smooth section or surface, studded with reddish or brown spots, being the orifices of divided vessels. The general appearance is that of a mixture of cellular substance and gelatinous fibrin, with scattered extravasation of blood. If the gland be finely injected, or the blood have been retained, it is of a red colour throughout. The substance is not easily torn, but may be more readily bruised or destroyed by rubbing. If, however, the inflammation have been high; and lasted longer, the sub- stance is softer, somewhat spongy, more easily torn, and of a redder colour, sometimes pretty deep. When cleared of blood by maceration, the groundwork is yellowish. If sup- puration take place, it is never at first in one central cavity, but seems to begin in different parts or cells, which are first filled with bloody serum, and an incision, though it discharge this, makes no impression on the general size; but a con-