4-15 and to the continuation of the epigastric vessels constituting the umbilical arteries. The moment that blood cannot find a free passage through an artery, the vessel begins to con- tract. Its function is gradually impaired, and presently it ceases to be both an artery and a tube. When the t\vo sides of the heart and the aorta can be readily filled, as in the post-natal condition, little or no blood passes by the ductus arteriosus. Its function gradually ceases, and it becomes impervious. When blood can no longer pass freely by the umbilical vessels in the cord, the function of the umbilical arteries, down to the last branch of the hypogastric, ceases. It does not appear that this cessation of circulation and con- sequent obliteration is effected by tbe tube becoming plugged with coagulated blood, but rather by the absolute contraction of the vessel itself, although I am willing to admit that the presence of coagulated blood, or of effused lympb, especially towards the extremity of the contracted portion, may accele- rate the obliteration. Still, I maintain that the contraction alone will be sufficient to stop the flow of blood, and the ces- sation of the function adequate to the destruction of the tube. To proceed purely on matter of fact, without explanation, I maintain that there is no example recorded, or capable of being produced, where the passage of blood through an artery previously healthy, has been suspended beyond a very limited period, without the complete and perfect obliteration from the obstructed point back to near the next branch. How long it takes to obliterate the ductus arteriosus, or the continu- ation of the hypogastric arteries, it is not easy positively to determine, else we could readily decide the period required for this mode of closing an artery. It may possibly be several weeks, if the impediment be slight, and the blood allowed even to oscillate in the tube.* Obstruction then to the passage of blood, or a destruction of the functions of an * It is needless practically to enter into an inquiry of the cause why the blood ceases to pass along the ductus arteriosus. It may readily be explained on mechanical principles, and does not require the fanciful con- jecture of Bichat, that it shrinks from the stimulus of a new kind of blood Does a vein in varicose aneurism refuse to admit a new kind of blood ?