I 437 beyond the obstructed spot, the artery is opened. The process I apprehend is quite different; it is that of suppuration, not that of ulceration, which I have already explained to comprehend, essentially, granulation. The ligature is disengaged as aseton is, by the process of suppuration, accompanied with slow absorp- tion. A mere suppurating surface is not necessarily subjected to destructive absorption; there must be a combination of irrita- tion, pressure, &c. to cause this; and in a healthy artery this is not accomplished before obliteration have taken place, for it requires several days, seldom less than a week, occasionally three weeks. When this suppurative process commences in, or spreads to, an unobstructed portion of an artery, haemor- rhage instantly takes place. We never find an artery opened by ulceration. An ulcer in the immediate vicinity of an artery is harmless. It is not so with a suppurating sore, and of this nature are all those spreading sores called phagedenic ulcers. Phagedenic suppuration may occur early or late; it may be excited very soon after the application of the ligature, and be in full operation by the second day; but it is seldom so early that the ligature is detached; and we have seen, that obliteration or union is, in a healthy artery, effected within that time. Haemorrhage, therefore, is to be attributed, not to the early detachment of the ligature, but to the kind of inflammation, which is unfavourable to adhesion, and induces the eating suppuration, which would cause haemorrhage, even if the ligature stuck on the artery. Inflammation of the low kind in the immediate vicinity of an artery, is always danger- ous, but most of all when it ends in suppuration, for this is more certainly productive of haemon-hage, than mortification or sloughing of the artery.. We read of sloughing of the artery much oftener than we meet with it; for unhealthy suppui’ation is often mistaken for it. If this kind of inflam- mation be dangerous in the immediate neiglxboux’hood of an artery, it must be tenfold more so when it commences in the artery itself; and in this case, the cii’cumstance of a ligature having been previously applied, whatever importance it may hold as an exciting cause, adds nothing to the danger of the result. Suppuration either takes place at the tied spot, or