278 dead substance, was then pierced, so as to evacuate the matter. Every thing went on well, till the eschar began to separate, then high constitutional irritation took place, and the patient rapidly sunk. Here we see no immediate injury produced by the evacuation of the matter, or the supposed insinuation of air; but the moment that the eschar begins to separate, and the action of the living line of separation comes to spread to the cavity, the evil takes place. The rule then, in opening all chronic collections of matter, whether we call them chronic abscesses, or encysted tumours, is to evacuate the matter by a small orifice, which we are to close immediately, and preserve its sides in continued contact by adhesive plaster, and a sup- porting bandage. An oblique is perhaps preferable to a direct puncture, in as much as it may render adhesion more certain. When the matter reaccumulates it must again be let out; and after this has been done once or twice, the cyst is not only contracted to a much smaller boundary, but from observation I can say, is also less susceptible of injury even when the aperture is left unclosed. This can only be accounted for, by supposing that certain changes have taken place in the action of the cyst itself, bringing it more nearly but slowly to a resemblance of an acute abscess. After this account of the local treatment of abscesses, I must next consider the management of the constitution. When an acute abscess is forming, it has been proposed by some to give invigorating diet and cordials, or to prescribe bark, ammonia, See. Others recommend mild diaphoretics, such as saline draughts. Where the strength has been much dimin- ished, suitable nourishment undoubtedly must be given, and if the debility be great, even wine may be requisite; but with the exception of such cases which occur but in a small propor- tion, it is better to avoid cordials altogether, and to prescribe a diet sufficient to support the strength, without exciting the system. As to medicine, I know of none that can have much influence, and would not, therefore, in ordinary cases, recom- mend any, except in so far as accidental symptoms might require it. There are more extreme cases, which may require our