tives, diet, &c., but contemplated nothing farther. Heister gave his readers no instruction with regard to the necessity of waiting till the mortification had stopped; but only advises, that, from prudential motives, they should previously call in a “physician or two.” It is not easy to say at what pre- cise time it came to be thought necessary to delay the opera- tion, till the gangrene had stopped, or, in other words, to have recourse to it not so much as a remedy against mortifi- cation, as to get rid of a sphacelated mass. Various essays, published between 1738 and 1746, rendered surgeons wary of pei'forming the operation prematurely. Quesnay amputated after the gangrene stopped; and Mr. Sharp, before the mid- dle of the 18th century, made it an absolute rule, in all cases arising from constitutional or internal causes, never to ampu- tate till the progress had stopped, being well aware that the operation at an earlier period, would be followed by a renewal of the mortification. He does not, however, make this rule absolute with regard to gangrene, occasioned by external inj ury; but even in that case, is very cautious of admitting any exception. The limb, he observes, is generally inflamed and swollen a considerable way above the gangrene, contain- ing the seeds of a future disease. Boucher adopts the same opinion with Mr. Sharp, and prohibits the operation when there is any inflammatory swelling above. Presently the rule in all cases was made unexceptionable. One of the earliest of our modern surgeons, who returned to the old advice of employing amputation as a remedy against gangrene, in cases arising from external injury, was Larrey, who strongly recom- mends amputation in traumatic gangrene, as a mean of stopping its progress. All seem (and with justice) agreed on the danger of operating in constitutional gangrene, so long as it continues. In all cases of mortification, succeeding to erysipelas, or inflammatio debilis connected with constitutional disease, or dependant on causes affecting the circulation, as for instance, hydrothorax, diseased heart, or ossification of the arteries, we lay it down as an undeviating principle, that we are not in any one instance to operate, till we ascertain, by a check being put to the local disease, that the constitu-