the perspiration excessive. There may be no local uneasi- ness, but it is apt to arise, when there is an excited state of the medulla spinalis or oblongata. To these may be added inflammatory fever, and the effect of the compound is tremen- dous, and generally proves fatal in a few days, often in 48 hours. It is most frequently exhibited as the consequence of inflammation supervening on the opening of a chronic abscess. In such cases, air sometimes is discharged from the aperture, and it is supposed that all the evil arises from this, which was imagined to be admitted from without. But it is a secretion from the diseased surface, and affords a strong proof of the truth of the view I have taken of the influence of local action on the system; for in a few hours, I have known the vessels of the whole body secrete air, and universal emphysema has taken place, accompanied with most rapid pulse, and ending, after a few hours, in death. SECTION THIRD. Suppuration is an action over which we have very little control. We have seen that inflammation is to be con- sidered as an exciting cause, and that the one action succeeds to the other. The transition is effected by a process of nature which we cannot explain, for as yet we know nothing beyond the fact. If we let the part alone, the process will go to com- pletion. There are only two questions which can therefore be proposed to us. Have we it in our power to accelerate the process of transition, and the rapidity of suppuration ? And can we relieve the sensations of the patients, or lessen the constitutional effects when these are severe ? We have, per- haps, less in our power in accomplishing these objects than many suppose; but still we are able to do somewhat. The application of a simple stimulus, within a limited degree, to a part, will tend to increase the action of that part, whatever it may be. Heat applied to an inflamed part, unless it greatly relieve the sense of pain, increases the inflammation. Applied to a suppurating part, it may be expected therefore to increase the suppurative action, but some circumstances must be attended to, before we can form a proper estimate ol