liave become varicose, sometimes to such an extent, as to account for the fanciful comparison of the disease to a crab. When the whole breast becomes uniformly hard and greatly enlarged, I have seldomer found it form irregular projections, than when the tumour remains more circumscribed ; but, on the contrary, the skin seems more extensively to have received the disease. This assumes a whiter or more opaque appearance, is thicker, and its areola are whiter and firmer; it plays less freely over the subjacent parts, indeed it is usually intimately adherent to them. An indistinct appearance of septa or whiter lines may be observed extending irregularly in the skin. Then we find it studded with numerous tubercles, or livid eminences, which slowly become abraded,forming many sores, foul, excavated, and with hard retorted edges; these at first are small, and for a time keep distinct, but at last run together, and a large superficial cancerous sore is produced. In this case death often takes place before the glands below become in any degree exposed, and the person dies more directly from the cancer of the skin than from the disease of the mammary substance; but in far the greater number of instances the skin is not affected otherwise than by inflamma- tion propagated from below, and subsequent suppuration or destruction, and these tubercles may never appear over the breast. In the ordinary progress, one or more of the irregu- larities, or knobs, of the tumour, project to a greater degree, and the skin at the part becomes inflamed. When it is touched with the finger, it feels soft and somewhat elastic, as if a fluid were contained; the surface becomes very early of a deep red colour, which becomes darker or more purple as the integuments become thinner, then the thinnest part opens by a species of sloughing, and a bloody fluid is emitted. The more pointed part of the projection then subsides, but the general size is scarcely lessened, the orifice enlarges, and an open sore is at last produced. This is excavated, and the edges speedily become hard and irregular. They form a distinct margin, somewhat prominent, more or less in breadth around the sore; and on which numerous veins are observed running parallel to one another, in the direction of radii from