517 the induction of disease. Some have supposed that plethora, or a greater determination of blood to the lungs, cause disease there after the removal of a limb. But 1 it lea y existed, it ought rather to cause haemoptysis, or apoplexy, or haemorrhage from the stump, if not yet healed. Others may explain the induction of pulmonic disease, by supposing that the veins have become inflamed, and I willingly admit t le explanation in several cases, but not in all. These collections do not always occasion such effects as to be readily discovered before death, and sometimes aie only discovered by dissection. They seem to be produced with less pain, in many instances, than those of equal extent aris- ing from other causes. Decided or recent maiks may not appear, or receive attention, till very near the time of death, perhaps not even then. But when the symptoms are distinct, they are those which would mark similar affections of the organ, induced by any other cause. It is also possible foi the original disease or injury to be removed, and the supei- induced one to continue, and carry off the patient by the hectic attending it. Nor is it impossible that some cases of phthisis pulmonalis originate from the effects of distant dis- order, which may be cured before the characteristic, 01 even early marks of consumption appear, and which, therefore, may not be considered in its true light as a cause. Many females may date this pulmonary symptom from an attaciv of some uterine disease, or mammary abscess, &c. The treatment of these affections must be conducted on the same principles as if they had been original diseases. In the case we have just been considering, the original disease may suffer no abatement, but, on the contrary, be rather aggravated. But it sometimes happens that the action is transferred to another organ, and this is called metastasis. This is more apt to take place in certain diseases than in others ; for example, in rheumatism, gout, and erysipelas. In all, it is most probably by sympathy of nerves, and the assump- tion by one set of those actions which have been performing by another. But this may be particularly the case in differ- ent portions of nerves supplying the same texture, as skin,