14. &c. Now were we to suppose two very different'agents to be applied at the same time, each capable of affecting the system after the same interval, it is evident, that either the two actions, they are capable of producing, must become blended to a certain degree, or, that the one must take precedence of the other. But unless it can render the system unsusceptible of the other, that will go on after the first is finished. This can only be explained by supposing, that the one suspended, keeps its hold on the part it first acted on, or resists the action of the other in that part. It is not eradicated, whether we look to the origin, or extremities of the nerves influenced, but is merely bridled and kept down by the other. If this be correct, we can also understand how it may be completely extinguished without manifestation, if the first action be very powerful and long continued. Mr. Hunter, who notwith- standing all his obscurity, was the first who took a scientific view of surgery, held the position, that “ no two different fevers can exist in the constitution, nor two local diseases in the same part, at the same time,” and this is quite true, if we restrict the position to distinct and independent actions; it would be folly to suppose the contrary. But we undoubtedly may have two actions sometimes blended, and we may, parti- cularly in eruptive diseases, have the remains of a first disease visible, the action or disease itself having gone, whilst a second has begun. The application of a contagion which acts quickly, may, after the introduction of one which is more slow, take precedence. Thus scarlatina may be caught after exposure to the contagion of measles, and its interval being shorter, it may take precedence of the measles, and retard its appearance. We may also have a new action affecting the system, and that not only without displacing a former diseased action in a part, but so altering it, as to render it much more active, and in other cases, bringing the system into a state in which more extensive disease is excited. This is illustrated by the effect of mercury on cancer, and many kinds of phagedaena. If the mercurial action can be blended with the natural action, or in other words, exist within limi- tation, without destroying that, which would be destroying