824 resistance, which is altogether different from vegetation or fungous granulation. It is doubtful whether this structure which I have described exist from the commencement of the tumour. I am satisfied that, at least in many instances, the tumour is originally of a simple nature, such as I have described in the first, but parti- cularly in the second section. More albumen and gelatin seems to enter into the composition, and a rougher and more granulated aspect is exhibited. This disease usually begins in a conglomerate gland; for instance the submax- illary, or one of those in the breast. When it begins in the submaxillary, the thyroid, or any of the deep-seated lymphatic glands of the neck, the patient is sure at last to have a very extensive disease. One universal, although not uniform, tumour, occupies all the space from the angle of the jaw to near the clavicle, perhaps crosses over to the other side of the neck. It is firmly bound down by the fascia and the superficial muscles; it involves every thing of a glandular structure in the whole tract. It surrounds the great vessels and the par vagum, and forms an intimate connexion with*, the sympathetic nerve. Under these circumstances it is not wonderful that the patient should grow rapidly worse. His pulse becomes quicker, his appetite fails; even if it did not, the difficulty of swallowing increases; sometimes he also breathes with difficulty, he has headach, and tempoiaiy fits resembling apoplexy. When such a tumour first appeals, we should anticipate the approach of these evils, and whilst it is yet in our power, remove a tumour which afterwards we dare not touch. In the breast it appears at first of the size of a hazel nut, but on cutting into it, it is found to be both larger and deeper than it appeared to be. This kind of tumour also may affect the penis, and I am not sure that it is not the most frequent kind of disease which passes for cancer of that part. It begins like a small tumour or soft wart, gene- rally at the corona glandis, and grows, especially if irritated by caustic and stimulants, so as to resemble a fungous or cauliflower ulcer. It is not, however, a granulating or