22 diminished, but the pai't is for a time, as it were, controlled or overpowered in its action. This, however, must soon lead to weakness. It is quite possible for a part to be rendered unfit to continue its function, and yet it may itself be in a state of inordinate action, or the same effect may be produced by a sudden shock. If we inject into the abdomen of a rabbit a little spirit of ammonia, the posterior extremities are instantly slightly convulsed, and then lose more or less completely their power, the animal supporting himself entirely on the fore legs, which with the head, retain their power. This experiment may illustrate certain cases of paraplegia, and also some affections of the extremities, succeeding to abdominal or pelvic disease, and varying according to the rapidity and intensity of the action. We must also in practice consider the complication of these different kinds of weakness, with different excitements, and variety of sympathies. There is a state of the system pro- duced sympathetically by the effect of long continued excite- ment, or irritation of a particular organ, or by some other state of it, as torpor or inactivity, and this requires great attention. It is not always the same, for it is modified in its nature and degree by the cause. A continued course of intemperance, a diseased liver, or scirrhous uterus, or testicle, a cancerous breast, or irritated, or torpid bowels, &c. may not only produce a general debility of the system, but a complication of excited or disordered states, which shall have a most unfavourable influence on all accidents and acute diseases. Strength in the ordinary acceptation of the word, is the power of acting strongly without speedy injury or exhaustion ; but, medically, different views may be taken of the state. In one view, it may be considered as implying only a moderate degree of sensibility, and susceptibility, so that the part, or the system, not only resists more the influence of moderate degrees of certain stimuli or agents, but when it is subjected to it, bears up longer under it, without sinking. This tena- city of the healthy action, and power of resisting, and also of