17 view. A more effectual mode of operating is, however, by their sympathetic effect on the brain and spinal marrow, through the medium of the nerves, for some of these, alcohol for instance, produce this effect, if applied externally in suffi- cient quantity. They have also more or less of a narcotic or soothing effect, il not pushed too far. But there may be cases of great debility, where, from particular local circum- stances, they do more harm than good, exciting the vascular, rather than soothing the nervous system. We must also remember, that some have more of a stimulant, and less of a soothing effect, and vice versa. A substitution of one stimulus for another, which is removed or diminished, is often of use, as for instance, in the primary effects of haemorrhage, but it is never of service either generally or topically, when it does not allay uneasy sensation. This is seen in the case of scalds and burns. An excitement which changes the action or disease, does virtually become a soother or sedative. It may operate either on the sensation, or the general action. Defect of stimulus produces sensation, and may give pain oy changing the degree or quality of action, or condition of the part, and affecting the extremities of the nerves of sensa- tion. A new state may be produced, as certainly by defi- cient, as by excessive stimulation, and this from its differ- ence, and unfitness, and sensation, may prove an excitement to the part, and thus, notwithstanding the seeming contra- diction, the very state of the part produced by loss of one stimulus, and which, we should say, ought to lessen action or excitement, may indirectly prove a cause of excitement. It is a giievous error in pathology, to estimate the consequences of the causes of disease, by their direct, or apparently direct powers, without attending to their secondary and sympa- thetic effects. Action varies in its effects, according to the affection of particular constituent parts of the organ, or of particular parts of the function. Sensation and secretion are of much importance, but not so much as when all the con- stituent parts of the action ai’e affected, for then we speedily have a change of organization, which often is unfit to bear c