114 part feeling the stimulus of imperfection ; and that indeed, in whatever way a wound healed, inflammation was requisite to the cure. Now, I wish to repeat what I have already said, that the terms adhesive and ulcerative inflammation are alto- gether wrong, inasmuch as these processes form no essential part of inflammation. They may follow, but do not attend it; at least no one, I think, will be able to maintain that sup- puration or ulceration is inflammation. Granulation or ulcer- ation is a natural effect of a vacuity, and is merely a modifi- cation of the ordinary function of nutrition, a modification pro- duced by the circumstances under which the part is placed; and it signifies nothing whether the vacuity, on the surface of which the action is going on, has been produced slowly by inflam- mation and suppuration, or abscess, or by the instant inflic- tion of an wound. It is the vacuity, and the vacuity alone which occasions the phenomena. No inflammation exists where it is established ; inflammation has then nothing to do with it, and could only injure or destroy it. Nay, I will go the length of maintaining, that although inflammation may, and very gene- rally does, precede this process, yet such precursion is by no means necessary to its establishment. The part does not gra- nulate because it has inflamed, but it inflames because it has been injured, and excited preternaturally in its action. It is not by any means proved that every wound inflames before it gra- nulates. The vessels may assume the granulating, ulcerating, or reproducing action, whichever name be chosen, without the intervention of inflammation. There may be a state of mere excitation, not of actual inflammation ; an increased activity, without the actual degree of disease called inflammation; a state resembling growth, as we see in the enlarging breasts and gravid uterus, neither of which organs are supposed to require previous inflammation. Every discussion depends on definition. We may so define a tea-chest as to include a book-case; but if we give a precise definition of a process according to its cognizable properties, we must say, that inflammation is one thing, and ulceration another; the one tends to destruction, the other to renovation; the one is pro- duced by any cause which can excite a certain disproportion