230 part should be bathed with laudanum and cold water. In a few cases, when these stimulants give pain, an ointment of a mild nature agrees better, as simple ointment mixed with pounded chalk. Carbuncle is another specimen of this kind of inflammation, and is often both troublesome and dangerous. It may be solitary, in which case it is generally large, and seated on the back, or it may appear in many places in succession either on the back, or nates, or elsewhere. It is generally preceded by some affection of the stomach, sickness, or want of appetite, and constipation, and begins with asmall hard livid tumour, attended with heat and itching rather than pain. When this appears, the system generally suffers more, and there is considerable irritability, and the tongue becomes furred, and sometimes the pulse quick. The tumour slowly increases, and becomes broader, and more elevated, and often very tender to the touch, and hot to the sensation. Presently it turns almost black at the apex, and gives way there, when a little bloody fluid is -dis- charged. Then ill-smelled thin pus is furnished, and the aperture increasing, a slough is discovered under the inflamed cutis. This is long of coming away, and when extensive, is not separated till much skin have been undermined, and then there is thrown out a solid mass of cellular substance mace- rated in pus. The cutis ulcerates or sphacelates, so as to form a pretty extensive sore, and at the same time there may be other boils coming forward in various stages, whereby the strength is much impaired, and the body becomes emaciated. In this disease, the chorium has been supposed to be chiefly affected, but it goes deeper; and whilst the cutis is purple and inflamed, the subjacent cellular substance is dying, and that so deeply, as often to leave the muscles or fascia at last exposed. The sphacelus not being exposed to the air, but steeped in pus, does not become black, but is of a buff or brown colour. The practice here is to rectify the constitution by mild, but regularly exhibited laxatives, infusion of bark, or other tonics, and light, but not spare diet. The hepatic func- tion is almost invariably disordered, and therefore a blue pill should be given every night, but not so long as to affect the