260 The practical problem is to determine that state in which either adhesion or suppuration, not gangrene, shall follow an wound. In idiopathic gangrene we may judge by two circum- stances ; the improvement in the health, and the cessation of mortification, in place of which, suppuration takes place. It has been said that adhesive inflammation was the mark of safety; but it is really the direct establishment of suppura- tion, or of inflammation ending in that action, which forms the proof. First, a very small line of suppuration at the very surface appears, and this gradually grows deeper. Ulcera- tion is quite a different and a subsequent process. If an operation be performed on parts simply debilitated, either adhesion or suppuration shall be the result; but in this disease there is something peculiar in the parts we cut, predisposing them to mortification. The signs of the existence of this pre- disposition must be taken from the condition of the system, as well as from the progress made by the local affection. Where we are satisfied of the existence of predisposition, it would be madness to operate; but where that is not appre- hended, there is no inevitable cause of failure. In gangrene, arising, therefore, from local causes, or without predisposition, the operation may be performed at any time, if we choose a sound place. Having asserted, that, in idiopathic gangrene, the mark of safety is to be drawn from a change in the nature of the inflammation, and a tendency to terminate in suppura- tion, it may be suggested, whether material benefit might not be derived from the use of such substances as might promote suppuration. For example, what would the effect be of applying caustic to the integuments, a little above the disease, so as to surround the whole limb with a narrow circle of eschar; would the mortification stop when it came to the under margin of this circle, and would the integuments begin to suppurate at the upper one ? If this were so, we might stop the progress in the integuments, but what would become of the subjacent parts ? I do not know that the plan of forming a circle of eschar has been methodically practised; but, diluted muriatic acid, or even stronger escharotics have been applied, and deep scarifications have been made through the