c218 increment, and of harmonizing with the rest of the system,— are they not exhibited in these, as well as in any other organ. They act correctly in health, they suffer in disease, and it is merely their insensibility to many of those ordinary stimu- lants, which we are accustomed to consider as the agents of excitement, which has made them be considered as low in vitality, or deficient in sensibility. But they are all capable of being acted on by a certain class ; and when preternaturally excited by these, they exhibit exquisite sensibility. What should we think of an attempt to prove that the ear was insensible, because it was not acted on by the light, or that the bladder was not irritable, because it felt no pain from the urine. But although no part be naturally weaker than the rest, or can properly be said to possess low vitality, yet many are less able to resist disease than others, and it is to an explanation of this that I now proceed on the following fundamental prin- ciples. First, A part or organ in a state of either healthy or diseased action should soon die, if left entirely to its own power; but it draws support from the rest. There is no organ possessed of an independent life ; all act in concert and equably in health. When we increase the action of an organ, it must soon be exhausted, if no aid were afforded by the rest of the system or contiguous parts; and, indeed, this proposition is as evi- dent as the fact, that an extremity should soon perish, if so divided from the body as to remain attached only by the mere artery and vein. Second, A part may sink either from being itself rapidly and excessively weakened, or by depressing the general system or neighbouring parts, so as to incapacitate them from affording support. Parts which can readily change the action, and substitute suppuration, or some other action for the pure inflammatory one, are less apt to suffer. Keep- ino- these in remembrance, we shall understand the matter farther by the following remarks:—Pain exhausts a part, and whatever its previous condition may have been, brings it to a state of debility. Powerful excitement or high sensation may kill at once, before it be possible for inflammation to take place. When spirit of ammonia was injected into the intes- tine of a rabbit, it screamed, and almost immediately died.