be explained by the authority of lexicographers, and to com- prehend, if they think proper, every purulent surface, I must claim a more strict limitation of the term ulceration. We have seen in what suppuration consists, and that though it may be productive of destruction, yet it can in no way contribute to the renewal of the part. It is a simple process, merely that of purulent secretion. Ulceration is a more complex action. It consists of the formation of organic particles or granula- tions, and also of the secretion of pus. When there are no granulations, perfect or imperfect, healthy or the contrary, ormed, there can be no ulceration. Whatever the action be, suppurative, or any thing else, the part cannot be called an ulcer. When a suppurating part begins to heal, those vessels which were originally destined to supply the waste of the solid texture of the part, resume their action, in so far as to depo- rt6 not a fluid, but more solid particles called granulations. The vessels which in health formed the interstitial fluid, continue to secrete pus. These two sets of vessels, therefore, in ulceration, each perform a separate office. The granula- tions produced by the ulceration of every texture of the body, are of the same kind, namely, cellular at first. This is even true in the case of an ulcerating bone; but in process of time after these granulations have been successively absorbed and replaced, they come gradually to be furnished in a state more and more resembling the texture to which they ought to belong. Hence, after a lapse of time, if the parts be in a favourable situation, muscle is joined by fibrous, tendon by tendinous, and bone by ossific matter. There is another circumstance to be attended to in the history of granulations, even in cellu- lai texture, namely, that the first crop is more spongy than those which are afterwards deposited. They gradually become more and more compact, so that an ulcerated disc, at first an inch in diameter, shall at last come to be greatly abridged, as is proved by our finding the old skin drawn nearer to the centre. This fact, with which surgeons have long been fami- liar, Mr. Hunter explained by referring it to the contraction of the granulations. That they do contract is certain; but it is not by any muscular action, it is only by their becoming