514 to be lost in allaying that. When it is merely from a nervous affection, it usually occurs almost immediately; and is attended with a variable state of the pulse, which sometimes is remarkably small as well as frequent, but it may be slow and scarcely to be felt. An opiate alone, or with a diaphoretic, with the addition of a little warm liquid, will allay it. If it arise from a disordered state of the stomach, or be productive of sickness, spontaneous vomiting often ends the alarm. If through that of the bowels, purges are the remedies. The kind of irritative fever we are now considering is never to be overlooked, but in a constitution previously healthy, and where the wound is not particularly severe, it generally, if proper treatment be pursued, passes off without bad conse- quences. It is seldom, on this account alone, necessary to have recourse to blood-letting. It is generally sufficient to regulate the diet, and administer purgatives, at the same time that we give the requisite attention to the state of the wound. But in a constitution injured by intemperance, or a highly disordered condition, and action of the organs of digestion, or other causes, this state is of the highest importance, as it reacts so on the wound, as to induce erysipelatous, or gangrenous inflammation. This dangerous event, is not merely to be apprehended in compound fractures, or lacerations of the extremities, but may arise from even a slight abrasion of the skin. This requires the exhibition regularly of miid laxatives, with the occasional use, if there be much bile, of a gentle mercurial purge. Bark, and other tonics, should then be employed, assisted by nourishing, but easily digestible diet, sometimes a moderate proportion of wine. Inflammatory fever having been already considered, I at present merely remark, that when it arises from wounds of external parts, and injuries of the extremities, it is seldom necessary to use the lancet freely. Let it, when required, be early employed, but not rashly repeated, especially in those cases where it is evident that suppuration, or any other con- dition, must take place, which it will require an effort to sus- tain. If, for instance, in a compound fracture, we should find it necessary to bleed, and do so to any extent beyond