the blood passes along in jerks or pulsations, which become gradually less frequent, and then the motion is merely oscil- latory. The globules seem to run together, and the colour becomes deeper. It is not uncommon to find in one set of red vessels the circulation going on, whilst in another appa- rently deeper, it is languid or almost stopped. We also often see, that when it appears stagnant, blood passes off to other branches very slowly, and this leads to some renewed motion in the stagnant part. A stronger stimulus, as, for instance, spirit of hartshorn, stops the circulation more rapidly, and causes speedy injection of the capillaries. In all cases, we see sometimes a vessel containing stagnant blood, with an intermediate vacant space, the artery there being empty, which is a demonstration that the circulation in that vessel must have ceased. In some places, which are neither empty nor filled with red blood, we find an ash or bufF-coloured lymph, or we see a mass of red blood (I speak microscopi- cally) move on, and the artery above, which it has left, becomes filled with serum, having only one or two globules. It does not contract, but remains like a clear line or band, and is afterwards filled, but not always, without a break in the con- tinuity of red fluid. We also see, perhaps, a vessel sending slowly blood to capillaries, where it moves briskly, and on the very opposite side sending a branch where the blood is motion- less. Next, it is proper to inquire into the effect of similar agents on other parts, and we find, that by injecting solu- tion of salt under the skin of a frog, we inflame the skin and the muscle, but the former sooner than the latter. In both the vessels are distinct, but the blood moves, and is globular. To ascertain the effect of opening a vessel going to or from the inflamed spot, the web of the foot was first inflamed, and when the vessels seemed to be quiescent, a vein at the toe was punctured, when the blood in the branches going to it began to move, and distinctly appeared to be globular. If any one vessel of the inflamed part, the disease not ha\ ing gone to an extreme degree, were opened, blood flowed, and as it spread over the web, the globules wexe seen most easily, although not visible when in the vessel. This is similai to