26 more analogous to that which may be explained by blushing, though different from it, where we have heat, vascularity, &c. and which state is preliminary to true inflammation. In this state, we may by venesection and other means, much more readdy check disease, and restore health, than after organiza- tion has been changed. Then, nothing, in too many instances, can alter the action; and, as we shall soon see, another cause connected with the state of the origin of the nerves, increases the obstinacy. Of how much importance then is the first hour. When a part is inflamed, it usually becomes more vascular, and generally more heat is evolved, but the sensation is gieatei than can be accounted for, from the mere increase of quantity. 'Ibis proceeds from increased sensibility, which is also one cause of the pain attendant on inflammation. It would be superfluous to prove that sensibility may be increased, but still this is very often more apparently, than really so. If we take off the cuticle, the nerve is very sensible, but this pioceeds merely from its being deprived of a covering. If blood or other substances press on sentient extremities, which were formerly free, they may be excited to sensation, but there is not increased sensibility; whenever sensibility is increased, it is in consequence of disease. Hot water is applied to the skin, and gives great sensation by acting on the nerves in their ordinary state of sensibility; but presently an increased state of tenderness or sensibility is produced, so that stimuli which formerly would have had no effect, have a great influ- ence. This proceeds from a change in the state or capability of the sentient nerve itself which may be caused by the influence ol its vessels on it, for the action is reciprocal. In other cases, the cause is more distant, perhaps at the origin ol the nerve, or some remote sympathy may operate. In inflammation, excited not by a cause affecting sensation, such as scalding water, increased sensibility is one part of the change affected, and may be connected with the greater sensibility of the nerves, as well as the condition produced at their origins. It must therefore vary in different cases, and so must sensation. Another cause of sensation is the