54- villi composed both of absorbent and exhalent vessels. The follicles and glands yield animal mucus, the villi a thin serous fluid. If we excite moderately a mucous membrane, we increase the secretion, which is scarcely if at all altered. If the excita- tion be greater, the nature of the secretion is altered, and if inflammation be produced, it resembles pus. An illustration of this may be found in the trachea: a slight excitation increases the secretion, but makes it more watery; a greater degree makes it yellow and puriform. A little excitement of the urethra increases the quantity of glairy mucus, whilst a painful degree renders it yellow. The same degree in the rectum or colon will produce a mixture of fibrin. There ought to be a distinction made between irritation and excitation. The former cannot be carried beyond a certain degree with- out changing its nature, and whatever is the result, it is no longer irritation. The latter may exist in every degree com- patible with existence. The former, in mucous membianes, produces an increase of secretion, with little 01 no change; the latter may produce a great change, or stop it altogether. Inflammation of a mucous coat is generally attended with increased, and often with puriform secretion, as, for example, in the urethra; and there is this peculiarity, namely, that purulent fluid is furnished without loss of substance necessai ily preceding the formation; and, in the same degree of inflam- mation, abscess, or abrasion of surface, or loss of substance, is much more rare in mucous coats than in cellulai sub- stance. It has hence justly or unjustly been inferred, that the secretion controlled or mitigated the inflammatory action. Some important questions may be put in limine, namely, What is the state of the secreting apparatus in inflammation ? Are the glands and follicles, and whole substance of the mucous coat, exactly in the same state, that is all alike inflamed; and is the immediate effect of inflammation on the o-lands and follicles, increased and altered secretion, as swell- ing and redness, &c. are in some other textures ? Or are the crypts and glands less prone to inflammation, and merely, m many cases', excited to an increased and altered action, by