SOI can add nothing with regard to the general or local treatment, bejmnd what I have already said with regard to the acute sup- purating sore, farther than this, that from the high inflam- mation which is supposed to precede the sloughing, leeches have been recommended to be applied in the vicinity ; or when there is much fever, venesection has been proposed. In general, these remedies are neither necessary nor useful, but there may be, and undoubtedly are exceptions to this rule; and when either a febrile condition, or decided marks of high local vascular action exist, general or topical blood- letting will be useful. To conclude, when a vessel is opened in the progress of this sore, the haemorrhage must be imme- diately restrained by the application of a small pellet of lint pressed for some time on the spot with the finger, and after- wards allowed to remain without disturbance. And every patient with this sore ought to be instructed in the use of pressure, should haemorrhage occur. If this fail, the bleeding spot must be touched with oil of turpentine, or nitrate of silver. If the vessel be larger, and the blood flow in a small stream when the part is uncovered, a ligature must be applied around it by means of the forceps or tenaculum. A variety of this disease is too well known under the name of hospital gangrene. This is clearly infectious, and may be communicated either by innoculation, that is, by touching a sore or wound with a sponge or dressing which is infected, or by atmospheric influence. In crowded hospitals, if great attention be not paid to ventilation and cleanliness, it is sure sooner or later, to break out, and when it does, it spreads with alarming consequences; every sore, wound, or abraded surface, is attacked, and sometimes even a pimple is sufficient for the infection to lay hold of. It has even by some been said, that uninjured parts might be attacked, and, therefore, that no one was safe; and such cases are represented as beginning with a pimple or little inflamed spot, soon forming a vesicle. I am much inclined to doubt this, and am at least borne out in saying, that if it ever appear without previous local disease, or some slight abrasion of the surface, such occurrence must be very rare. This is the first great fact,