198 below contracting also. I his is especially so about the joints; and from the deep adhesions which form, it is some- times impossible to remedy the evil. In many instances, however, the original seat of contraction is in the skin, and the muscles below, only shorten as a secondary effect. 5. The part, from the first may be destroyed, and eschars formed, which leave after their removal, deep ulcers. Both in this and in the former case, the ulceration is fl.pt to spread i and from the unhealthy state of the vicinity, abscesses and sinuses form, inducing hectic fever, the bones and adjoining joints often becoming diseased, or the patient sinks exhausted without hectic. 6. Mortification may succeed the inflammation produced by the burns. These different degrees are most apt to occur in different kinds of accident. Water, for instance, cannot be heated beyond 212°, whilst oil can be raised to a much greater tem- perature, and melted metals still higher. Water therefore, unless the part be retained in it so long as actually to be boiled, does not produce immediate destruction, but only high inflammation. It is more owing to the difference of temperature and tenacity than to acrimony, that scalding with one fluid is worse than with another. When a part is burned by flame, as, for instance, by clothes taking fire, it is first scorched, and then, if the heat be continued, it is disorgan- ized, roasted, or converted into a cinder. Heat applied by the combustion of gas has the same effect. The explosion of gunpowder near the surface of the body, as, for instance, in a boy’s waistcoat pocket, independent of the effect of the burning clothes, may in a manner torrify the skin instantan- eously, and though no effect of stupefaction be produced, very little pain is felt; the skin is dry and insensible, and unaffected by any application, nor does the extent of the evil, and the real source of danger appear, till the sheet of skin be first raised up by the formation of matter below, and then thrown off in thick pieces. As there is great difference both in the degree and extent of the injury, it is evident that there must be a corresponding \ I