191 ^ __ » latter would be the safest, though certainly a most indefensible plan. Our object, whether we use the lancet or employ medi- cine, is rather to mitigate than to cure,—to lessen the violence, rather than shorten the duration,—to obviate the subsequent risk of a serious and tedious termination, rather than cut short the erysipelas itself, which runs a certain course, and cannot be immediately annihilated by any means. When bleeding is required, great benefit is derived from the early co-operation of laxatives, and in most cases, though certainly not in all, these are of themselves sufficient for every useful purpose. A pretty smart and efficient purgative should be given at first, and afterwards the action of the bowels is to be kept up, without carrying it to any great degree. We may begin with compound powder of jalap, conjoined with from one to three of the pil. hyd., and afterwards employ, daily, rhubarb and magnesia, with ginger, or suitable doses of compound extract of colocynth, or infusion of senna with an aromatic. Occasionally, small doses of calomel, or rather the pil. hyd. may be conjoined, when bile appears abundant. I am not able to say that weak solution of tartrate of antimony has had any specific advantage. When there is much depres- sion, it increases that, and is to be avoided; when there is not, it may be employed, more particularly when venesection is proper. As sickness lessens the force of the circulation, an diminishes that of the capillary system of the surface it may be thought that nausea, induced by this medicine, should be advantageous. It is, however, one thing to sink or depress action, and another to change it, and experience does not ofTe r ! ^ °fthlS P1’aCdce in alterinS the actlon« One of the best internal medicines is the saline jalap pleasantlv prepared, which not only never does harm, but if prescribed selves to keep both the patient and the physician, from employ’ mg more active and doubtful remedies. P °y' Un^lvoid^Th ‘T SPa™S and digeStab,e’ and a" sti™- the sensation." temPerature to be made agreeable to When the patient is recovering, advantage results from the