135 opinion, that this cause is often resident in the state of the origin of the nerves supplying the part, and no remedy is more powerful in removing this than bloodletting. Many cases of local inflammation are cured, not by depletion acting on the part affected, but on the medulla spinalis or oblongata, and never could be cured by topical remedies. These effects cannot be otherwise than weakening, and can only prove salutary, and ultimately increase strength, by removing some cause of disease or disorder. Some constitutions are more readily affected by loss of blood than others; and when this is previously known, it will prevent us from taking away blood without the most urgent cause. Some are so languid and sunk after being bled or cupped, that they are long of reco- vering their vigour. Particular periods of life are also sup- posed to render evacuation more hazardous; as, for instance, early infancy or old age. In both of these cases, when we bleed, we should do it as soon as possible, and take no more than is necessary. Detiaction of blood, then, operates in two different ways. It diiectly lessens a stimulus or excitement of the nervous system, both generally and locally, and therefore acts on the inflamed part, on the sensorium commune, or origin of the nerves, and on the system ; and thus, in so far as the abstrac- tion of a stimulus goes, it ought to diminish action of that kind to which inflammation belongs. Next, it acts on the vascular system itself, producing evidently a change in its , capacity, which cannot be effected without a greater or less alteration in its mode of acting. This may, in the first instance, interfere with the performance or continuance of the inflammatory action, and therefore prove beneficial. But if pushed farther, it may cause injurious excitation. Takino- a different view of the matter, we would say, that the loss of blood, by lessening the local action, lessens in so far that which keeps up the general disorder; and, on the other hand, it also, by lessening the general disorder, and diminishing the force and activity of the circulation, lessens the reaction of the system, both vascular and nervous, on the local disease, and contributes to its removal.