155 severe and complicated injuries, the state of the system, and oi the injured part, required a consideration separate from, but not unconnected with, inflammation ; and in not a few, the inevitable effect of inflammation, if the patient lived long enough to allow it to be established, would be fatal exhaustion ; and in the contemplation of this, he should find the surgeon preferring at once the removal of the injured extremity, as a souice of irritation and exhaustion, to the chance of preserv- ing it at the risk of life. It would be anticipating what must heieaftei be said of these states, to enter here into their con- sideration, or to say how we should attempt to obviate them, and in what cases we should separate the wounded or injured part from the rest of the system. But it is far from irrelevant to introduce the subject here as a mean of connecting it in the mind of the reader with inflammation, as that disease occurs in surgical practice. When an inflamed part returns to a state of health, the disease is said to terminate by resolution, or to be resolved, but it may neither do this, nor yet produce immediate destruc- tion of the part, far less death. It may end in a permanent change of organization, and this, of all others, I maintain to be the most frequent, and the most fatal termination, where a complete cure is not obtained. Take any texture of the body, any organ from the most insignificant to the most important, choose any age, sex, or constitution, one and the same result, though under many modifications, will present itself. The inflammation is cured, but it has left behind it a thickened and newly organized texture, which, like an insu- lated being in the world, has no common bond of union with the system, no natural part to perform in the economy of the frame, no community of action, but is a stranger and a parasite growing in and from the soil where it is implanted and following laws and habitudes peculiar to itself. The pait never returns to its natural structure. It remains thick- ened and altered, no matter how, a distinct tumour is pro- t uced, which grows, and at length inflames and ulcerates. e progress is far from uniform, much less are the symptoms 01 e ects legular and similar. Much depends on the con- 7