412 Even tying the artery below the wound cannot in this case cure the disease, for there is a bag or cavity among the muscles capable of increasing, and sure, whatever we do, so long as the portion above the wound is pervious, not only to increase, but also to assume a diseased action, and become inflamed, and sooner or later afterwards to burst or sphacelate. A true aneurism, one limited by the coats of the aiteiy, though diseased, and partially ruptured, and by the sheath still entire and thickened, is rarely cured by nature, notwithstanding this limitation ; but woe be to the man who trusts to the spontaneous cure of a false aneurism ! Eighth, As a false aneurism may or may not pulsate, so also it may or may not be capable of diminution by pressure. It is only when there is a well defined communication between the mouth of the artery and the sac, by means of a layer of fibrin, pure, or mixed with coagulum, that pressure can lessen the quantity of blood contained. We never can empty a false aneurism, and often cannot make any impression on it. No degree of pressure indeed can diminish its size after it has become large; for even it there be a defined or regular aper- ture leading to the artery, the coagulation of the blood on the inner surface of the sac so hardens it, that we have a tumour unequally firm or hard, formed; and this, like other tumours, ultimately inflames, and either bursts at the mos? prominent part by sloughing, or by a mixture of suppurationand gangrene. Ninth, In a matter of so much importance, I would wish to prevent all misconception, and, therefore, distinctly lay it down as a proposition, that it is not the mere coagulation of blood in a sac, whether the aneurism be true or false, that effects the cure, but it is the cessation of the passage of blood along the upper portion of the sound artery, and the stop- page of all flow from it into the sac. A true and a false aneu- rism are very different, in so far as the state of the vessel and of this process of cessation are concerned. If we can coagu- late the whole blood in the sac of a true aneurism, we are pretty sure that the blood within the arterial tube leading to it will coagulate also up to a certain limit, which will lead to an obliteration. But if even in this true aneurism such