CHAP. X. OF CERTAIN STATES CONNECTED WITH, OR PRODUCED BY WOUNDS AND INJURIES. Without entering at present into the consideration of the different kinds of wounds, I will offer a few observations on certain conditions of the system, or of part of the system, produced by them. And, first of all, I shall take notice of the shock which is attendant on wounds. This is a debility of the system or of the part, and bears an analogy to syncope and paralysis. It may appear readily explainable by the debility consequent to previous high excite- ment ; but practical observation will prove this not to be always correct. It is not proportioned to the degree of sensation, or to the rapidity with which that is produced; for a sudden and excruciating twinge of pain does not necessarily produce this state. In certain conditions, however, sudden pain pro- duces syncope, and, in all constitutions, peculiar kinds of pain, or pain affecting particular organs, is productive of depres- sion or syncope. Pain or excitement, accompanied with the sudden loss, or extreme injury, of a considerable portion of the body, is followed by greater shock than even a higher degree of excitement, without the corresponding loss. It is also very much modified by the previous state of the system. An ope- ration, for instance, performed on a person previously healthy, is productive of more alarming consequences, than where theie has been, for some time, existing an irritation, which it removes. A sudden or high excitement of a part, is not productive of shock or debility, unless that excitement, or preternatural action, subside almost as rapidly as it was produced. In that case, the system sympathizes with this rapid sinking of the part, and it is not to the previous excitement, but to that con- sequent sinking or collapse, that we immediately attribute the shock. Were there no failure in the part, there would be none in the system ; were there no sympathy, there would be no shock. Previous excitement, is indeed only the cause of