221 Ihe inflammation of parts previously injured or debilitated, and previously sound, requiring in many respects different treatment, I must consider these two great divisions separately. \\ hen parts previously sound are inflamed, the inflamma- tion at first is of the nature of the valida; but when these parts are sensible, and in a manner insulated, and exert at the same time a powerful sympathetic effect on the system, their power soon sinks, but the action not abating in the same degree, the result is exactly as if we had the disease excited in a weak- ened part. No organ exhibits this more evidently than the peritoneal coat of the bowels, which, when inflamed, very soon becomes debilitated; and whilst mortification is a rare termination of inflammation of other parts previously healthy, it is here very frequent. The practical rule in such a case then must be, to attack the disease vigorously at first by free vene- section, tepid bathing to allay pain, and purgatives to excite the internal coat of the bowel, which thus lessens the action of the external or peritoneal covering. “ Faeces pertinaciter adstricta” has been considered as an essential characteristic of peritonitis intestinalis, and free alvine discharge as a o-00d indication of recovery. As it is only those cases of enteritis which are arrested in the first stage, or during the inflam- matio valid a, which are in general cured, it becomes an essen- tial object to commence the treatment instantly. This is far- ther advantageous, because the disease usually is at first con- fined to a comparatively small surface. When it has spread over a great extent, and passed into the stage of debilis, we have little hope of a cure, and the remedies useful at first now add to the danger. It would be of importance, therefore, to be able to distinguish the one from the other; and although there be a difficulty, yet we may generally be able to accomplish this. In the first stage, the pain is generally more confined, or at least is greatest at one part; there is no puffy tympanitic swelling although there may be tension. There is sharp lancinating- pain on pressure, but not exquisite tenderness to the touch5 of sfitch n°^iffiCUl!y °f breathin* imleSS from ^ presence • The pulse is not so rapid as in the second stao-e and is sharp, and generally contracted. There are restlessness