233 extensive, the dead parts may be thrown off, and a cure obtained by ulceration and cicatrization; but if it have gone deep, amputation is required. Allied to this in its effects, is the erysipelatous inflammation which is produced by abrasion of the skin, or laceration, or puncture, or tearing the nails in debilitated or cachectic habits. A very slight accident in a person broken down by hard living, especially it advanced in life, may be attended with the most seiious consequences. In the very commencement, he ought to be confined, and prevented from irritating farther the part. His diet ought to be regulated, and his potations, if they had foimerly been too free, must be abridged as much as is con- sistent with prudence. It is also necessary to attend to the functions of the abdominal viscera. The direct spot of the injury is best soothed by a tepid poultice, or if the skin alone be abraded, by dusting it with a bland powder. The erythe- matic portion should be bathed with spirits and water, or cloths wet with a weak solution of acetate of lead, having a small proportion of spirits added to it, should be applied ;&or if tins do not agree, we may substitute camphorated spirit of wine. No application which smarts or gives pain, ought to be continued. If the disease become more severe, and the inflammation tend to spread, the same local remedies are to be continued, whilst we give bark or quinine with wine, in suit- able doses internally, and add opium, if there be preternatural sensibility. If gangrene be threatened, or have actually com- menced, we ought to follow the same internal treatment, and if the power of the stomach be much impaired, should add the stimulus of capsicum. To the gangrenous part we may app y a ermentmg poultice, cold or tepid, as the patient shall nt most agieeable, and this is to be renewed at least two or t iree times a day. To the erysipelatous skin spirituous appli- cations should still be continued. The last case I shall put is that where inflammation arises lorn contusion or laceration, complicated perhaps with es.truction of important arteries or nerves, or with fracture ° Ve, °nes‘ Th,s must fo™» 11 very serious accident, even the best constitutions, and is more or less dangerous accord-