465 complete stoppage of circulation. We are not to suppose that languid transmission of blood into the sac, or slow motion through it, shall produce a general coagulation. This only favours the formation of successive layers, by which the cavity is at last filled. Even in the most rapid cure, this is the mode, but not the only step; for whilst this goes on, the sac also con- tracts or diminishes in size, closing in, as it were, on the dimi- nished quantity of blood, or fluid of whatever kind, that may be in it. If we examine an aneurism ten days or a fortnight after the operation, we shall find the size to be less, the parietes thickly lined with layers of lymph and clotted blood, and the central part filled with bloody fluid like sanies; both orifices are pervious. The fluid therefore is blood, altered in its appear- ance after death, and it is clear, that excepting that the blood may have been moving more slowly, and in less quantity through the sac, the circumstances are, in so far as the character of aneurism is concerned, just the same as before the operation. If the sac were opened, or the artery punctured just at its entrance or exit from the sac, blood would flow. Did we stop, then, at this point, the operation must be considered as inefficient. But we find that at a later period the coagulation has advanced more, the orifices also are plugged with clotted blood, and although pervious after this is removed, yet they, as well as the whole sac, contract as absorption goes on, and come finally to be obliterated. The arterial orifice is indeed permanently obliterated before the contents of the sac have been all absorbed. The first step towards this, is when the sac is filled with coagulum, and an obstacle afforded to the passage of any fluid blood from the artery above. If at this time, perhaps three weeks after the operation, we examine the sac, we find it filled either with a solid mixture of blood and fibrin, or with a softer substance like thick mortar, and of a brown colour. In either case, the oi’ifices are still in general pervious when the clot is removed. The permanent obliteration, then, of the arterial orifices is not a rapid pro- cess ; and it may be several weeks, or even more, before it be completed. When it is accomplished, we seldom find that the obliteration goes high. It has doubtless gone as far up as 2 ir