08 sp1 cads soon over the lobe, which is covered with spots of extra- vasation, with minute vessels in these, and distinct and larger vessels elsewhere. I he whole has a mottled appearance. It is almost universally red, but more so in some places than in others, and in a few spots we see still the olive colour. If the substance be cut, it bleeds freely. When the inflamma- tion goes on, it involves the parenchyma more or less, whilst the surface becomes covered with a thin coat of fibrin. A thread passed through the lobe produces increased redness and inflammation in its course, but not much beyond it. If solution of salt be applied to the liver of a rabbit, it makes it at first paler, but not olive; part assumes an appearance of fibrin, but soon the whole becomes redder and mottled, and, indeed, with a good glass, it has naturally a kind of reticu- lated appearance on the surface, from vessels which, in the preliminary stage of inflammation, assume, from the irregular diffusion of the blood, a punctuated appearance; but by exposing a thin superficial slice to the microscope, we can be satisfied of a continuity, and that the spots are not from extra- vasation. This also exists, but in large patches. If the liver be touched with a hot wire, a grayish eschar is formed on the spot, and there is very little redness round it, till the surface become so by exposure. In the human subject, inflamma- tion seems to begin oftener in the substance than on the sur- face of the liver, and extends in general slowly to the surface, which is found of a bright red, or reddish brown colour, partly from arborescence, partly from multiplied ecchymoses, some of which are almost black. On a greater or less extent, lymphatic exudation is met with ; and on removing this, the surface below is rough and red, or punctuated; but in many cases, the peritoneal coat suffers very little, and no fibrin is effused. Acute inflammation is supposed to begin most fre- quently near the surface, but it is not proved that it com- mences in the peritoneal coat. Chronic always begins on the substance of the liver, but the latter may be, and often is, acutely affected. In this case, on making a section of the lobe, we find it gorged with blood, much swelled, and softer, or more friable, and easily torn. It is of a deep colour, with