188 front than the back of the leg, but generally at last encircles the member. On the trunk, it appears first on the lower part of the belly below the umbilicus, and tends toward the groin and scrotum. The colour is scarlet, inclining to yellow, but very gentle pressing with the finger, by forcing the blood out of the capillaries, removes entirely the redness from that spot for a second or two. The colour sometimes is darker, and, ceteris paribus, the more it approaches to that of the damask rose, the greater is the danger. The papillae are sel- dom so much deepened in colour as in some cases ol erythema. The sensation is that of heat and smarting, rather than pain, and whenever there is much pain, there is generally a deeper colour, and corresponding danger. Vesications almost uni- formly appear, either numerous and minute, or large and few. In the first case, they shrink, and small scabs are formed. In the second, either larger crusts, produced by the drying of the exudation, or addition of some farinaceous powder, succeed to vesication, or ulceration is produced. Sometimes, from a combination of superficial ulceration and deeper suppuration, ending in sinuses, a very troublesome and obstinate state is induced. Erysipelas occurring in a very disordered habit, or arising from a debilitating contagion, is attended with gieat pain, and is apt to end in mortification. There are, how- ever, a few examples of this event following erysipelas wrheie the sensation has not been acute. These are rare, and foul spreading ulceration is a more frequent consequence. The duration of erysipelas is uncertain ; but it seldom lasts abo\ e a week, unless in the worst cases where it tends to gangiene. All who have written respecting erysipelas, notice the ten- dency to metastasis, or the bad effects which follow from sudden retrocession. Even when there is no speedy repulsion, the internal viscera may suffer, and of these the head and stomach are most exposed. The first, when affected, produces headach, delirium, and coma; the second, tenderness at the epigastrium on pressure, then more continued pain, with retching. It is, however, difficult, in many instances, to say whether this obscure inflammation may not have existed from the first in the epigastric region, and been indeed a cause of the erysipelas.