who consider the essence of the disease to be debility, or, by specific remedies, when such are imagined to exist. I have made, on the first of these plans, every remark which I believe to be really useful, whilst I was considering the treatment of diathesis; and this ought to be followed out with more or less vigour according to the complications of the disease, or the fever and excitement, and active inflammation which may exist. In most cases of scrofulous disease affecting the exter- nal glands, the tonic plan is not only admissible, but useful, particularly sea-bathing, nourishing diet, and strict attention to the bowels. There are some remedies which have been proposed, partly as tonics, partly as stimulants, and partly as specifics. Bark was long ago recommended as atonic. It does not appear to me to have the smallest effect in lessening a scrofulous gland; but given so as to improve digestion, it sometimes seems to do good in scrofulous sores. In such cases as seem to be connected with, or aggravated by irritability, it may be beneficial when it has the effect of lessening that con- dition. It may either be given in the form of powder, m sue doses as do not produce sickness, or, a light infusion, or smal doses of the sulphate, may be prescribed. Mercury is another medicine which has been employed; but if given so as to pro- duce a specific effect on the system, it is deleterious in pro- portion to the degree of that effect, and many have had then days shortened by it. Some are in the habit of giving sma quantities of the blue pill to act as an alterative, or to rectify, real or supposed, disorders of the digestive organs; and where the secretions of these organs are faulty, hall a pill, or a whole pill, according to the age of the patient, may be <fiven every night, or every second night, until we can ascertain what beneficial effect it can produce; and benefit may be derived from conjoining it with the daily use of some bitter laxative. As an alterative, or constitutional medicine, however, I would expect more harm than good from it ; and 5 fear, that of late years, even in the former point of view t has too often been given without discrimination Calon particularly, conjoined with drastic purgatives, such “ 8 ‘ Jnony, has been advised to be given once a week, 01 oftene .