181 administration of cordials and tonics, as will be more property pointed out in considering the inflammatio debilis, to which this should now be referred. There is an inflammation which may sometimes come under the definition of erythema, and sometimes of erysipelas, but as it can be of little utility to consider it under both heads, I shall, without disputing whether it may be most pro- perty referred to one or other, or occasionally to both, proceed to notice it. I allude to what has been called erysipelas of the head, consequent to external injury. It has been noticed fiom the earliest ages, and was, perhaps, without any excep- tion, considered as dependant on the local injury. The skin alone might be primarily inflamed; and this, which was con- sidered as the slightest degree, was supposed to be distinguished by the ears participating in the swelling. If they remained uninvolved, then the case was viewed as worse, and as depend- ing on disease of the aponeurosis, pericranium, or even the rain itself. This was considered as still more apt to happen in those who were of a bilious temperament, for bile was looked on as a principal cause of erysipelas, and one chief point of attention was to decide whether the tumour arose from bile alone, in which case it was pure erysipelas, or from bile with a great admixture of blood, in which case it was phlegmonous. All agreed in the necessity of employing purga- tives to evacuate the bile, but some insisted as much on the propriety of venesection, as others contended against it, and both adduced authority m their support. Fabritius endea- voured to act as moderator between the two, and proposed that in erysipelas of the head, face, or neck, whatever its character might be, we should bleed as well as purge. In pure, or as it is now called, bilious erysipelas of other parts, he slid we should only use evacuants, whilst in phlegmonous erysipelas o any part, we should also bleed. Most practitioners were airaid of repellents in rose of the head, lest the membrane °. '16, m slloultl !>e inflamed, and rather employed oil of almonds or other bland applications. If the skin alone were ”t woukM * ^ ^ '’'f WaS d0ne’ and the diseas« treated as It would have been elsewhere. But if the ears were not