248 converting that of the low into a more vigorous kind, it has for ages been the practice to have recourse to the application of stimulants, which were chiefly of a resinous nature, and sometimes were used scalding hot. I have already recom- mended what appears most useful in mortification superven- ing on wounds, and given my opinion regarding those cases requiring or admitting the application of leeches or cold water. At present I am strictly to confine myself to the remedies to be used in inflammatio debilis, or low gangrenous inflammation. When the heat of the part is not only increased to the sensation of the patient, but is even above the rest of the body when felt by the hand of another, cloths wet with cold water should be applied at least for a time; and these may be of service, even if the part be not actually hot, but only so to the sensation of the patient. The rule here, as in other cases of inflammation, is to lessen the action, or obviate particular symptoms. But when the actual heat, whatever the sensation may be, is at or under the ordinary temperature or degree of the parts in a state of health, some applications which tend to change more directly the condition of the in- flammation are required. The most useful of these consist in stimulants. The first ought to be rather mild, and never ought to occasion continued smarting; for whatever gives pain does harm. Where the skin is not broken, or is covered with a very thin layer of substance nearly dead, one of the best applications, and perhaps one of the mildest of such stimulants as produce any effect at all, is spirit of wine alone, or with the addition of camphor: pledgets dipped in this are to be applied, and frequently changed. These, if they are to do good, speedily abate the pain. When, on the contrary, they aggravate the sensation, they are immediately to be abandoned. Some may startle at my speaking of this as a moderate stimulant, forgetting that what produces a power- ful effect on the palate may not produce the same effect on • the skin. When this disagrees, we may try either a cold or tepid solution of muriate of ammonia, but not of such strength as to smart. If this disagree, we must try poultices made either of port wine with a sufficient quantity of crumb of