137 the tube, and we cannot do less in the arteries. Hence, in the arteries, this removal or diminution of resistance will produce an increased contraction. This point has long been ascer- tained by Haller, and other physiologists, who observed, that it the circulation were languid, or even had ceased in the vessels not yet quite dead, making an aperture in any vessel restores the motion of the blood, the contraction pressing it, even in unfavourable directions, along the adjacent vessels. Topical bloodletting, then, ought to conti’act the vessels which are opened, and those of a certain order directly communi- cating with them; and, farther, will by sympathy exert an influence on those which are in the vicinity. But the influ- ence on the capillaries is limited. There is still another way in which this evacuation may prove useful, and that i» by the orifices assuming a kind of secreting action, which is incom- patible with that of inflammation, and not merely ceasing to be inflamed themselves, but sympathetically tending to lessen that state in others. .To ascertain the effect, on the capillaries, of dividing a vessel in the inflamed part, I opened a large vessel belonging to a frog’s web, where the blood on all the inflamed surface seemed to be stagnant, and without globules. Blood with globules immediately flowed from the orifice, but the motion excited in the other vessels was very limited. If we puncture a small vessel where the motion has ceased, a little globular blood flows out, and the vessel becomes empty, and in many cases does not seem to be filled again. If we press on the others, more fluid flows out, sometimes of a red, sometimes of a brown colour. If the blood have coagulated, none flows, nor can it be easily pressed out. We cannot empty the small vessels, and still less the capillaries of an inflamed part, by dividing either the arteries or veins. This may be seen by cutting the mesenteric vessels of an inflamed intestine. It becomes paler, and has less blood in it, but still it is much redder than naturally, and retains its inflamed appearance. If we cut off the inflamed foot of a frog, its vessels remain filled with blood, and even a small exhausting syringe applied to the cut surface does not empty them. It increases the motion, but