511 dislocations, and peeling oft’ of large flaps of skin, which cannot be done without more injury to the system, and addi- tional exhaustion from the effects of sensation. It is one thing to perform an operation at a time when it is warrantable, in so far as rallying from the shock of failure is concerned, but quite another thing to avoid the effect of what I have called the shock of diminution. The man may recover from the immediate effects both of the shock and of the operation, and do well for some hours, or days, and yet die from the other kind of shock. But this is no objection to the operation, without which he could have had no chance at all. I shall put yet another case. We have an arm or a leg shot off, and a ragged extremity left, or the limb is attached only by shreds or portions; now here is a plain case, it may be said, for amputation, and yet it may not be so. It is as un- warrantable to operate here, prematurely, as in a case of smaller injury. The operation is exactly the same in both, even to the very division of a fibre. But, there is another operation, of a temporary or intermediate nature, safe and advantageous. Cut through the mangled band, or shred, which still holds the limb, and then, when the patient recruits, perform a regular amputation. The first operation, if such it can be called, inflicts no injury, produces no exhaustion, but is rather a source of comfort. When an injury is accompanied with great sensation, or irritation, the case is more clear. These of themselves must wear out, and if they cannot be counteracted, must not only warrant but demand amputation, when otherwise it would not be essentially requisite. Much attention is to be paid, in our deliberations, to the state of the sensation and its elFects, and much depends also on the part to be amputated; the arm is less dangerous than the leg, and the leg than the thigh. lo conclude, a patient is not to be operated on, merely because he shall certainly die, although amputation be not performed. We must be able to say, he shall die, unless he be operated upon, or that there is good ground to hope for success. We see a local injury so severe, that it is evident, *