312 SECTION SECOND. A tumour very frequently met with is composed principally ol fibrin, enclosed in a capsule. It differs from the chronic inflammatory tumour in this, that the latter has fibrin more oi less alteied, and generally of an ash or gray colour, effused into cells, amongst which vessels ramify in greater or less number, whilst the former form a regular and uniform mass of yellow or whitish fatty looking substance, either without any septa, or having only thin cellular septa subdividing it rather into lobes, than packets or grains. Few vessels pene- trate into it, and sometimes none can be discovered. It is always, at first at least, contained in a capsule, more or less dense, to which it adheres but slightly, and from which it seems to be secreted. It has sometimes been called an adipose, or fatty tumour, but although its aspect may justify this, yet it does not melt by heat, nor contain any sebaceous matter ; on the contrary, it is composed of fibrin. Both the shape and the surface are often irregular: but the tumour does not feel hard or stony ; it is even sometimes rather doughy, and when this is not the case it is elastic, as if it con- tained a fluid in a tense cyst. It is not painful, and usually is slow in its growth, and so long as it retains its original charac- ter has no tendency to inflame or suppurate, but if it acquire a great size, or by any cause the skin or surrounding cellular substance becomes irritated or inflamed, then not only is an open sore formed, but changes may be induced in the structure of the tumour itself. Generally speaking, however, such tumours are inconvenient from their bulk chiefly, or danger- ous from their mechanical effects. No tumour is so easily removed, for it is only necessary to make an incision over it, and divide the capsule, when the solid substance may be turned out with the finger, or separated by the handle of the scalpel. If any part have become altered, or have been inflamed, then indeed an adhesion is formed, which it may be necessary to divide, and this part often has vessels ramifying in it, or, if seated over a fascia, vascular adhesion may take place between them. On account of the tendency to increase, and thereby