186 times be affected, in consequence of abdominal disorder. But besides adverting to the possibility of a particular connexion between one part within, and another without, there may be at the time existing a strong predisposition in one portion of the surface to disease, although the cause of that have been over- looked, or some exciting causes acting on the part to be inflamed may have been too slight to be noticed at the moment of their operation. The influence of the digestive organs on the surface and on local disease, is now so generally admitted, that I need say little more on that subject; but 1 fear it has not been equally attended to, that local alterations, whether in sensation, or the nature or degree of action, have a powerful effect on the digestive organs. The one is just as frequent as the other; and the facility with which these organs shall be disordered by local and distant causes, or by mental affections, depends on their previous state with regard to health or vigour, and the delicacy or irritability of the individual. Nor is It always the exciting part which suffers most in this way. A man of an irritable and susceptible habit, or whose abdo- minal viscera are easily disordered, shall meet with an acci- dent, lacerating, or painfully injuring the foot, and presently the digestion goes wrong, and the injured part becomes worse, and erythema attacks it. Here the exciting part suffers, and even death may be the consequence. Another man exactly of the same habit sprains his ankle. Very soon, as in the former case, a similar effect is produced on the digestion, but the influence of this is not obviously exerted on the joint, but on some part of the surface. In a few days, distressing urti- caria may appear, or erysipelas attacks the head or a distant part, the predisposition of which can seldom be ascertained. Aoain, a man has an obstinate and irritable sore, which affects the o-eneral system, and after an attack of fever, the sore inflames and sloughs. Then it begins to heal, when again the same mischief is repeated ; and thus we may have many successive re-actions of the sore on the system, and the system on the sore. There is every reason to admit also, that m some cases erysipelas arises from the operation of a contagion. It is