37 inflamed, is merely marked by a hard cord, and streak of red. Inflammation of the fascia is often met with, and dissection shows, not merely this inflammation, but great disease fre- quently of the muscles, which not only have(their connecting cellular substance in a state of suppuration, but are themselves highly inflamed, or almost black. In such cases I am disposed to think, that the fascia has been the principal seatof the disease, and that the inflammation has been propagated both out- wardly and inwardly to the subcutaneous texture and muscles ; and in most of the collections of matter that I have seen formed in this disease, their seat has been under the fascia, and recovery has taken place after a free evacuation. It seems a general rule, that effusion takes place from the vessels on both the outer and inner surface of an inflamed sheet, particularly if it be inflamed throughout. If the fascia of the limb be inflamed, we have a fluid effused, containing both O fibrin and albumen, not only into the subcutaneous cellular substance, but also below it, over, and even amongst the muscles. The effusion is not watery like anasarca, nor are the cells so permeable as in oedema. The swelling is there- fore firm, and resisting, or elastic, and from the view I have taken, may exist to a considerable extent, with very little inflammation in the cellular substance itself. Next, I would remark, that it would appear that a mere laceration or prick of some nervous filament in the skin may cause, from com- munication with other nervous ramifications, and the involv- ment of the parts connected with them, extensive disease. This view is supported by observing, that many severe cases of this disease follow a puncture of the fascia of the finger or hand, by a ragged point or thorn. I have known the whole leg swell thus, and continue for weeks under this disease, from a very superficial scratch or other puncture, by a rough point of bone, and in this case, no approach even was made to erysipelas. In many instances, it will be found, when the leg is affected, that the principal seat of the pain and tender- ness is in the vena saphena, but this being accompanied by the saphenus nerve, it is doubtful which of these is the original cause; but in most cases, the vein is not only painful, but also