74 tinued discharge of lymph sometimes is a consequence. Then red glairy fluid is formed, and last of all, pus. One little cavity takes the pre-eminence even from the first, and ulti- mately embraces all the rest. It is in the front that the progress is greatest. It extends laterally, and last of all inward, but often it breaks before the whole has suppurated. The internal surface, like other abscesses, is lined, with fibrin- ous effusion. The skin does not very early participate in the inflammation, and rarely, if ever, till suppuration have con- siderably advanced, which may not be for a fortnight. In simple inflammation, the matter is pus of a yellow or buff colour. There is at first little pain in the gland, but this increases as the inflammation advances to suppuration. Indu- ration is not an uncommon termination, particularly in stru- mous habits. The lymphatics are very thin, and with difficulty disco- vered in the cellular substance; but when inflamed, thev often, above all other vessels, become most distinct. For not only are they surrounded then with a coat of fibrin, effused into the cellular substance beyond all proportion to their natural size, but also, very early, the skin partakes of inflam- mation, and their course is marked by a continued and pretty broad streak of a pale red colour. It is not rare to find more extensive deposition around some portion of the canal than the rest, and there the inflammation is highest; and not only a chain of tumours or indurations, but also of abscesses, may be thus formed. These portions differ in nothing from phleg- mon already described. I can say nothing of the state of the coats themselves, though doubtless they become vascular. But in the larger vessels, the thoracic duct, it has been ascer- tained that both the external and internal coat become very red and arborescent. The internal assumes a pulpy appear- ance, and, finally, pus is formed. The external becomes thicker, infiltrated, and more vascular. If a lymphatic be divided, lymph is often copiously effused for some time. I shall have occasion hereafter to notice inflammation of the blood-vessels, and therefore, for the present, only remark, that as vasa vasorum cannot be traced deeper than the middle