still may do good by lessening the quantity of fluid, and relieving the breathing, but it ought not to be pushed far at this time. In inflammation of the bowels, again, if we do not bleed early, we had better not bleed at all. It appears to me, after much observation, that many err in pushing evacuation too far in such a case. They bleed once and again; and finding the disease still increase, they go on, and one patient after another dies, without any variation in the practice. From all that I can see, repeated evacuations for the same attack of peritoneal inflammation are not only useless, but fatal. Let us bleed at the first moment, and do it freely, and repeat it soon ; but if this second, or at most a third bleeding, make no impression, I have little hope of good coming from the farther depletion. I would scruple much at taking blood a fourth time under such circumstances. It may be said that there have been cases where no relief was obtained, till a great quantity of blood had been taken, and that if this practice be not followed, we have nothing for it but to let the patient die. As to the first part of the argument, I suspect it will not often be found true; certainly not so often as to warrant any justi- fication of the practice; and as to the second, I believe I may say, that he shall die sooner if bled copiously, than if the evacuation be made more prudently. Whenever we find that bloodletting does not produce, at the time of the evacuation, and for at least a short period after it, a mitigation of the pain, or other symptoms, we may be sure either that we have not bled enough, or are bleeding too much. We know it to be the first of these cases by the early period of the disease, and the comparatively small quantity of blood taken, or the improper way in which it has been taken; and we judge it to be the second, if the period be advanced, and the patient have been already bled freely. I wish, and I know not how to express the wish too strongly, that practitioners would, in inflamma- tion, especially of delicate parts, bleed early, and not too long. It ought to be remembered that bloodletting is a remedy, but not an infallible one ; and that wherever we cease to do good with it, we begin to do harm, and the evil will be in propor- tion to the very supposed urgency of the case. According to