388 posed to restore noses, not by turning down a flap from die forehead, but by raising one from the arm, which was applied to the face, the arm being fixed there till union were accom- plished. This was first described by Alexander Benedictus in the end of the fifteenth century. A hundred years after- wards, a folio work on the subject was published by the cele- brated Taliacotius, who, in the popular opinion, is considered as the inventor. He was in the practice of raising a flap, from the arm of the patient, which he called a propago. This was affixed to the boundaries of the former nose, previously made raw. After the union had taken place, the connexion which still remained between the arm and the propago was divided, and the new nose properly trimmed. He gives an admonition to make a good large nose when we are about it, “ for this feature,” says he, “ is so important, that some nations choose a king by the length of his nose.” For the benefit of the more wealthy, it was proposed to take the propago from the skin of another person : but this practice was not without its inconvenience, as it was always expressly understood, that the new nose was not bound to live one moment longer than its original proprietor. It was a liferent dependant on him. This scheme, which is better known as a matter of amuse- ment than of practice, undoubtedly contributed to give more confidence in the process ot adhesion. Alter the time ol Alexander Benedictus, attempts seem more frequently to have been made to reunite parts which had been nearly disjoined, a remarkable and successful instance of which was related by Arceus in 1574. Even parts, completely, and for some time separated, were replaced, and at various times we have narratives of the success of the attempt. It was long, how- ever, before a more important step was taken, the applica- tion of the doctrine of adhesion to the performance of opera- tions. Attempts were indeed made in the end of the seven- teenth century to cover stumps with a flap, and to save as much skin in the removal of a cancerous breast as would cover the wound. But the vessels, in these cases, not being pro- perly secured, and indeed a concomitant benefit expected to accrue from the plan, being that of closing the vessels by pres-