158 the diseased, and restoring a more perfect action. Sometimes merely removing a cause, which was keeping the constitution weak or unhealthy, does good, by enabling the system to restore to the part a more healthy state. Hence, sometimes purgatives, sea-bathing, &c., may do good. Against this origin of tumours, or the production of indura- tion, it will be said, that often no previous inflammation can be detected. Now this is the very point I wish to call the reader’s attention to. I wish to impress on him the fact, that there may be inflammation without any fever, and with veiy little pain, or there may be pain without fever, which passes as spasmodic. The primary symptoms may be either slight, or soon over, and it is not till long afterwards that the effect appears. In other instances the symptoms at first are prettv smart, but presently abate, without the health returning, and a long period of delicacy, ends at length in the decided appear- ance "of tumour, or accompanying hectic. The conclusion I mean to draw from all this is, that whenever the symptoms are in any degree ambiguous, and more especially whenever the part apparently affected is important, or the patient of a bad constitution, we ought to have immediate recourse to general, still more certainly and frequently to topical bleed- ino-; and if the symptoms be not speedily removed, to t tie subsequent application of a blister. I grant that in many cases the nature of the disease may be doubtful, and these evacuations may therefore be sometimes employed unneces- sarily ; but when I consider the protracted, and often fatal evils, which may result from neglect, where inflammation really exists, of these means, and how little injury can arise from the opposite mistake of using them unnecessarily, I cannot retract the advice I have given. It is much the fashion to praise purgatives, and to trust to them in many doubtful cases I do not wish to speak disrespectfully ot this worthy class of medicines, but I fear that they are now rather too much in credit, and are exalted to the rank of principals, where they should only be admitted as adjuncts. Abdominal irritation, spasmodic, or muscular pains, or obscure sympa- thies, are terms which perhaps often cost the patient Ins hie,