339 enlarge, and in the same proportion the contained substance becomes more spongy, or pulpy and redder, until at length the centre of this soft substance is filled with bloody fluid. I he proportion of the fluid gradually increases as the cyst enlarges, and at last the inner surface of the cyst seems to be only lined or coated over with the glandular looking red pulp, and it is this enlargement of the cyst which constitutes what has been called the cancerous abscess. There are, there- fore, in a tumour of considerable duration, many cysts in dif- ferent degrees of progress, some just distinct, others large, and covered perhaps only with inflamed skin ready to break. The fluid is generally bloody, but that may be adventitious, for it is also found lymphatic or transparent. The two pro- minent characters of the texture are a rough gristly looking substance, with white intersections more or less distinct, and the existence of cysts imbedded in this. Some able men do not consider cysts as essential to the disease, as, for instance, Mr. Carmichael, who contends merely for the essentiality of the gristly texture. I am not prepared to prove that cysts invariably exist in true cancel*, but many examinations enable me to say that they are rarely, if ever, absent. I have found the general aspect of scirrho-cancer without cysts, and without stria?, and the lymphatic glands contaminated, but still, although the nature be malignant, and extirpation indispensable, I am not disposed to admit the tumour to be genuine cancer, although it be as dangerous. It has been described by others as a character of cancer, that if we cut the tumour, the section is at first smooth, but presently prominences appear on the suiface by the contraction of the cysts pressing out a yellow greenish fat. It is not always easy for spectators to agree in description or comparison, but to me the contents certainly have not a fatty appearance, but are rather like soft lymph- atic gland, or, when yellow, are like the substance forming the first species of tumour I have described. Small nodules of }ellow fatty looking substance may be met with in the can- cerous tumour, but there seems in these to be an admixture ° a umen* ifie appearance varies somewhat at different stages. At first the true carcinomatous texture is limited