whilst this continues no hope can be entertained of recovery: as a harbinger of destruction the part sends out its messenger aimed with this deadly weapon, and as it advances it finds a leady disposition to embrace or yield to the evil. It is not to a cessation of the inflammation in the vicinity of the mor- tification that we are to look for a termination of the ravages, so much as to a change in the character of this inflammation, and the moment this change takes place the predisposition diminishes or ceases; an inflammation not of the low gangren- ous kind is established, the tendency of which is not to mor- tification but to suppuration. Causes may renew the gangrene, 01 the constitution may sink under the new order of things, but it is free from danger from the original attack. The pro- gress is stopt, the inflammation has changed its type, the con- sequent sympathies are altered, there is no longer a propa- gation of weakness, which for want of a better term may be called depressing mortifying weakness, followed by dying inflammation. This explanation will not be satisfactory if we merely trace the extension of the disease in its regular and inevitably increasing ravages from the original seat of the injury; for why does the disease proceed, it may be said, gradually from the ankle to the knee, by the predisposition of parts, in regular succession, and not inevitably proceed from the knee to the groin by the very same cause. To this I have only to reply, that the nearer we approach the trunk of the body the more vigorous is the natural action, and the greater the power of resistance. But when the circumstances under which the mortification has taken place, have been such as powerfully to debilitate the whole frame, no such salutary re- sistance can be exhibited. The progress of the gangrene goes on without interruption; and long before any vital part be reached by the actual disease, the powers of life are extin- guished. From all that has been said, it is evident that gan- grene may appear and spread under two circumstances, which differ from each other chiefly in the point of predisposition. First, it may occur very much as a local affection, without being either dependant on, or productive of any very power- ful constitutional disorder. In this case it spreads in general