10 m the small branches going to the nerves and spinal cord, but 1 have not been able with the microscope, to ascertain or prove this. On the other hand, if we cut off' the leg of a frog, and apply ammonia to the raw surface of the divided member, we instantly increase the circulation in the web. It is probable that sensibility, contractility, extrication of heat, secretion, the condition of the vessels, &c. in a part, although all dependant on nervous energy, yet are effected by the intermedium of distinct nervous subdivisions. All of these may be simultaneously affected, or one principally, and that one, may ultimately involve another or the whole nervous distribution, and this holds true also, in so far as the mutual influence ol the origin on the extremity, and vice versa, is concerned, so that when one part of nervous function is chiefly affected by a cause acting immediately on the part, the origin of the nerve on which it specially depends, may be first and princi- pally influenced. There are different distinct faculties, powers, or capabilities, which we must not confound with the prin- ciple, or energy, which possesses them, and stimuli call forth these into operation, and under certain circumstances may in- crease their acuteness of operation ; neither must we confound the capability with the actual performance. It would appear that the capability may be increased or diminished, as we see in the variations both of susceptibility in general, and sensi- bility in particular. But there can be very little variation without disease. Confining our view to sensibility, we know there may be loss of feeling, as well as acute feeling, and we know also, that there is a great difference between the acute- ness, and the distinctness of impression and sensation. The primary cause of increased sensibility is not always resident in the nerves, or even the organ affected, but a remote sympathy may operate. We must not confound variation in sensibility, with variation in the mental power of perception. In considering the action of a part, we have to attend to its general condition or action as a whole, that is as an indi- vidual organ. Thus, we have to attend to the condition of the different parts of which the whole action consists, and of the organization with which these are connected, such as the