187 universally known, that in some seasons erysipelas is exceed- ingly prevalent, but this may be attributed to atmospheric influence, but it is no less a fact, that both in hospitals and private families, where it is introduced, it sometimes attacks different individuals, from which it is evident that one species at least is contagious, like many of the other exanthemata, and this is usually more severe than those cases which arise horn othei causes. In such seasons, I have observed urticaria to be also severe, and to end in minute vesications, forming blackish patches. Erysipelas, or exanthematic erythema, shall generally be found to depend on some disorder of the chylopoietic viscera, which has either been slowly increasing, or has been suddenly excited; and hence, after a surfeit or hard drinking, many are speedily affected with rose. It is preceded by fever, but it is seldom long before the efflorescence appears; and, indeed, the accurate Sydenham notices that it invades rather sud- denly. The degree of fever is variable, but in general it is considerable, and attended with much heat, more or less nausea, and in no long time with depression and debility. The tongue is loaded, and the appetite lost, the thirst is con- siderable, the bowels are constipated, and the urine scanty and high coloured. The eye is dull, and not unfrequently there is headach or slight delirium; but, unless when the ery- sipelas is seated in the head, there is seldom drowsiness bor- dering on coma, yet these symptoms may attend even erysipelas oi the legs. The inflammation appears first in one or more sma 1 patches. If one, it soon extends; if more, they meet. In the head, one side is usually first affected, and soon after- wards it spreads to the other, and perhaps down the neck but it is more apt to affect the upper than the under part’ and the face is attacked oftener than the scalp. The whole features are swollen, but chiefly the eyelids and nose. In the hmbs, it usually appears near their extremities. In the arm or instance, near the wrist, and is more likely to spread to ■e back ot the hand than go upwards, and sometimes it it ! mn’rT 15 C01,fined t0 the hand and In the leg, most frequent near the ankle. It begins oftener on ,1m