The female breast is made up of many lobules, which are formed by the conglomeration of grains not larger than small shot. They are of a red colour when injected, and consist of numerous vessels, ramifying and interlacing in a dense sub- stance, and terminating in the fine commencement of the lacti- ferous ducts, which have a mucous coat. The lobes are firm, dense, and, from the quantity of uniting substance, have rather a whitish appearance, if not injected, or after being washed. The chemical properties have been examined by Dr. Thom- son, who found them to be much the same with those of the corium. The lobes are united by fatty cellular substance in greater or less quantity, and the whole is covered with a firm expansion of fascia. A thin layer of fascia, and some fatty cellular substance, are also interposed between the gland and the pectoral muscles. Now, from this composition, we may readily see that the breast may have either its cellular substance or its glands, or both, inflamed. The great majority of mammary inflammations begin during lactation, and may arise from obstruction to the discharge of the secretion. It is rare for the whole breast to be inflamed, for in general only one or more lobes are affected; but the cellular substance inflames more extensively, and afterwards a greater number of lobules may be involved. The cellular inflammation is similar in its character to phlegmon. The gland is found enlarged and red, but apparently rather from distension of its uniting, than of its proper substance. The lactiferous ducts are distended, and the size of the vessels, particularly of the veins, increased. I have made no experiments on ani- mals giving suck, but those who have, assert, that the cellular substance is often infiltrated with milk, without any rupture of the ducts; but this I very much doubt. When the swell- ing is great, the fascia is stretched, and the tumour acquires a tense elastic feel, and the cutaneous veins enlarge much. When the distension is less, then hardness at the most diseased part is very distinct. 1 his inflammation may teimi- nate in resolution, suppuration, or induration. I believe, that when a lobe is the principal seat of disease, resolution may, oftener than in other cases, be hoped for, because the