523 very properly called. Tobacco clysters have been used, partly as means of producing relaxation by depression, but chiefly as acting on the bowels. There is, however, no sufficient tes- timony that they have more efficacy than other purgatives, such as infusion of senna, having sulphate ol magnesia dis- solved in it, jalap alone or with calomel, compound aloetic pills, &c. The purgative which can be most easily taken, and seems to produce the best effect in the individual case, ought to be daily employed, and in mild cases shall, I am persuaded, do more toward saving the patient than any other remedy. Opium is another remedy strongly advised by many, and I can bear testimony to its occasional service in mild, and what are called chronic cases, but it is a very uncertain remedy. It fails much oftener than it succeeds, and sometimes even aggravates the complaint. When it does good, it has been given in small doses, such as ten drops every hour, combined with a drachm of tincture of valerian. In acute and severe tetanus, it has been given in very large doses, one grain of opium every hour, or perhaps half an ounce as a clyster, but never in any dose, so far as I have seen, with the slightest advantage, and, I fear, general experience must corroborate the opinion. Venesection to a large extent has been tried, and, a priori, would promise much advantage, particularly if we consider the ground there is to suppose that tetanus arises from an excited or irritated state of a portion of the spinal cord. In tetanic convulsion, not dependant on wounds, I can aver, that nothing so certainly removes the fit as copious bleeding. But it is different in traumatic tetanus. We may, although not always with certainty, allay the violent convulsion by vene- section ; but, for this purpose, require to carry it ad deliquium animi. We do no more, however, than allay, or possibly remove one spasm or convulsion. The disease returns, to our mortification, as readily as if the lancet had not been employed. The old remedy of cupping the spine is as little to be depended on, and the application of blisters along that part is not attended with advantage. Could we fix on one part chiefly