m deep-seated feeling remaining. When confined to the skin, the separation takes place in ten or twelve days, and the part below is leit in a state of painful ulceration. The older writers advised cold water to be applied, or snow, but afterwards they employed fomentations, which defeated theii piimary purpose. If we understand the source of dan- gei, we can easily discover the practice. Let the part be first rubbed with snow, and then bathed with cold water, and, last of all, have cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine applied. Let heat be carefully avoided, not only to the part itself, but also to the vicinity. The temperature of the room where the patient is placed must even be kept moderate, and no fire be allowed for some time. If inflammation have taken place, we can do very little more than still apply camphorated spirits, w ich tend to lessen it, and after the eschars have formed, this, provided it do not give pain, should still be continued as long as there is any surrounding inflammation. Then a tepid poultice, or pledget spread with resinous ointment, may be applied to separate the slough. The strength is to be sup- ported by good diet, and moderate quantities of cordials; but these must never be given so as to excite, and therefore should be begun small in quantity, and indeed should not at first be iasti y employed at all. In extensive gangrene, amputation may be at last required. Another species of this kind of inflammation is more apt to end in ulceration than gangrene. It is called chilblain, and is especially apt to affect the toes, heels, or fingers, but it may also occupy the lips or nose. There are some people su ject to cold feet, or who have the extremities rendered white and benumbed by moderate cold. These are particu- arly liable to chilblain, but any one may have this produced y going quickly to the fire after being very cold, either from exposure to frost, or cold and damp. When the disease is threatened, the part should be rubbed with snow or cold water and when inflammation has actually taken place, strong cam- phorated spirit of wine, or spirit of wine with a little oil ofrose- aiy a t e to it, should be applied, and heat avoided. If ulcer- a 1011 mVC taken place’the best dressing is ung. resinos. and the