101 we know it to be a matter of fact, that erysipelas is often pre- ceded for a day, or for two or three days, by very smart fever. When fever takes place from an injury or operation, it may succeed inflammation of the part, and in that case it is generally, though not uniformly, mild. But in most dan- gerous cases it is simultaneous with the local disease, or some- times the constitutional disorder even precedes, by a verv short time, the local symptoms. An operation or injury often acts more directly or seriously, by influencing the gene- ral system, or the nervous system, than by its immediate effect on the part itself. The cold stage of the fever, or constitutional disorder, is attended at first with an actual diminution of temperature. Less heat is evolved, at least at the surface. The pulse, even at this stage, may be frequent, but the extreme vessels, if we judge from the colour and shrunk appearance of the skin, aie not filled as usual. T his cannot be from diminished impetus, for in many cases the impetus is less when the sur- face is hot and coloured; but it must be from a change in the condition of the living system. All actions of the system seem, at this time, to be impaired, and some more than others. The evolution of heat is affected generally in a degree pro- portioned to the distance from the heart; and the actual temperature is also diminished in proportion as the part is exposed to circumstances carrying off heat quickly. I know not that the heat of the internal parts is diminished; and it is not probable, for unless there be sickness and great depres- sion, the surface of the trunk is not lowered above one or two degrees, whilst the hands and feet may be many degrees lower. As the temperature is somewhat affected at every part of the surface, and particularly at the extremities, which may, and do affect the general feeling, it is easily understood why there should be a sense of coldness. But independent of this cause, the nerves of sensation seem to be affected; for presently when the temperature has risen to the natural stand- off of the individual, or even gone beyond it, he still feels cold, and has the sensation of chills along his back, if not clse.vheie. A marked example of this state of the nerves I