2 55 to Pr°duce either stupor or sickness. As much wine may be taken in this disease without intoxication, so also may many grams of opium be taken within twenty-four hours, without producing stupor or delirium. And as with regard to wine, so also in respect to opium must the quantity prescribed be regulated by the effects. The object is to allay pain, and thus remove an exciting cause of irritation and exhaustion, and it is in this way that opium acts in the gangrene attack- ing o people in the toes, or produced by ergot. There is " !Tty T 11(?h } et remains to be spoken of, concern- 1C^ here haS been a diversity of opinion : I mean cin- chona. Some have considered this as little less than an infill- hble remedy, whilst others hold it to be utterly useless. Mr. xushwor h of Northampton, in a printed letter addressed in that ha^i„XOe?c:LTl^T\SS7e0n" “!’ inf°™S ‘he'"> nf tit f , f ’ n 171to a man Wltb a mortification having °° !°m an internal cause, and former experience me ™f 7T ’I”1/ d’e °f station - a toTt " K , 8, ?Se’ 1W ‘‘’““S’11 !t useless to resort the h 1 but Providence,” says he, “ first directed me to order e bark, whilst there was a remission of the fever ” It sue ceeded, and he then took off the limb with succest S„ mjant, in a letter in return, says, that he had tried°it in seven cases, and with so much success tint- It be emiallv • • , . , s’ that be conceives it to in mf L, TS,In S SeaSe “ in "**■ Mr■ Douglas, ion h ,US 1 'le TOS calIed ‘° “ Patient with mortifica- hin-Ji andretheet° niUI ratment had f“iled- The fever was vCwld^L Teeh d ,7 rugh ,‘° grate a m,tm^his belly. SeNanV nib i"™ paU1 on 0,,e sido of his ir y ffeant Dlckens and Mr. Cheselden were brought failed Te*1 a'K' ^ formersaid 'but as every thin* had 6 TOuld ProPose bark, not on his own knowfed^e m o„ the of Amyand. Mr. Cheselden agreed that 1 could do no harm, but said that he never heard of its dot! C “ ^ Dr- NewinStou. who acted as physfXn° jS ' LZTjr the manW°Uld die tlle "ext day, bu!