296 degree as the patient’s sensations authorize. Some, even aid the operation of a roller by placing a piece of sheet lead over the sore; but this is seldom necessary. When a roller is piopeily applied, and particularly when adhesive plasters are used, it is not necessary to enjoin absolute rest, or insist on the limb being always horizontal; but still I cannot approve of much walking. The patient, although he may walk frequently, must never walk long. There is another circum- stance connected with this kind of sore, and which often con- tributes to keep it up, I mean a varicose state of the veins. These have a powerful effect in converting an ulcer, at first healthy, into this unhealthy state. The swelling and hard- ness of the parts in the neighbourhood of the ulcer is often considerable ; the pain is very troublesome, especially at night, and it extends up in the direction of the veins. This effect of varicose veins has been long known, and it was verv early proposed to destroy the varix by caustic or excision, or more lately by the application of a ligature around its upper extremity. All of these, however, are apt to produce inflam- mation of the vein, which spreads onwards towards the centre of the circulation, speedily destroying the patient. This inflammation is not indeed an invariable consequence of the operation, but nevertheless it has occurred so frequently, and is so much to be apprehended, that I deem it unwarrantable to have recourse to the ligature, the only one of these methods at present thought of. It has been proposed to introduce a narrow knife under the skin, between it and the vein, so as to traverse the surface of the vessel. The flat side is to be introduced parallel to the face of the vein; the edge of the knife is then to be directed to its face, and the vessel divided as the instrument is withdrawn; the haemorrhage is to be restrained by pressure, which is also intended to obliterate the canal. This, which may be called an extensive venesec- tion, by a small oblique opening, has been found to answer the purpose of obliteration. But until longer experience can determine that serious inflammation never succeeds to it, I must recommend trusting rather to the continued use of a roller, than resorting to this or any other operation.