297 The section of the vein has been attended with fatal con- sequences, and neither it nor ligature can have any certain effect of benefiting the ulcer. It is not consonant to reason that it should, and it is impossible too strongly to reprobate the practice. The acute suppurating sore may supervene on a state of ulceration, or may be the direct result of circumscribed inflam- mation. The sore sometimes is superficial, and extensive, but level. At other times it is small and deep, like a cup, the edges are thin, sharp, and undermined, the surface has no appearance of granulation, but rather assumes the look of a coating of glossy lymph of a buff colour, the discharge is thin, the pain is considerable, and in some cases most severe, par- ticularly if the surface be touched ; the skin to a small extent aiound the margin is red and tender, and often undermined, and ragged, and these ragged proportions soon become in- flamed, and then die. This sore, so long as it retains its character, spreads, but increases faster laterally than down- wards, so that if there be one or two such sores near one another, they ultimately form one. The danger and incon- venience, however, of this sore, arise not so much from this, as from its tendency to inflame, which is almost a sure fore- 1 unner of sloughing. 1 he suppurating sore is also sometimes quite superficial, and consists of a patch of greater or less size, covered with a buff coloured layer which cannot be removed. This is level with the surface of the limb, and is surrounded with erythematic inflammation to a greater or less extent. It may be doubted how far this should be called a suppuiating sore, for it is rather a sore covered with exuda- tion of albuminous or fibrinous substance, with a little dis- charge of serum, or brownish or buff coloured thin pus, and it never heals till it begin to discharge more healthy pus, and tien it gianulates, and the surface becomes red. It is a species of suppuration, and therefore may be placed here. Suppurating sores appearing in succession, often commence in the subcutaneous cellular substance, where, near a cup-like sore still existing, there is felt a softness as if matter were con- ained, then the surface becomes red, and next it opens, and