173 parts, by the immediate operation of stimulants; as, for example, hot water or cantharides, but it is also apt to be engendered under the following circumstances. 1. We know that inflammation, or even irritation, of cer- tain parts below the skin, can act so on the covering as to produce erythema. In this case we have two distinct sets oi inflammation or irritation, the deeper which is the cause, and the superficial which is the sympathetic effect, whilst for some time at least the intermediate texture may be little affected. But if this state continue long, the two inflamma- tions are apt to meet at last in the intermediate texture. Temporary excitement of the deeper part will produce tem- porary erythema of the skin, as we see in those paroxysms of excitement which occur in many tumours. Is not, for instance, erythema a frequent attendant on cancerous tumour; and it may spread to a considerable distance, then subside, go off, and in a time return. In this case, however, the intermediate cellular substance is very apt to inflame, and soon a permanent induration takes place. Inflammation of a lymphatic gland has the same effect; and in this as well as in some other cases, the erythema may spread to the extent of several inches, although the gland be not larger than an almond, especially if the gland be closely connected either with a tendon or aponeurosis. Irritation or inflammation of lymphatic vessels can be traced by the eye by the line of erythema produced; and who does not know the tendency of a puncture of a fascia or fibrous membrane, to produce this effect ? 2. Irritation of various kinds, affecting organs much deeper and more remote, may produce external inflammation or red- ness, provided these have a delicate sympathy with the surface. For the production of this effect, it is by no means necessary t at the internal irritation or disorder should be attended with pain or any sensation. Some of these occasion fugacious effloresence, others true inflammation. These, but particu- larly the former, often vary in degree, as the process of diges- tion goes on, or as different chylopoietic viscera are excited