220 •uni, on this principle, the plan of treating inflammation by nauseating doses of antimony, cannot be a good one. When parts, from similarity of texture or other causes, are more apt to participate in, than resist inflammation, the dan- ger is greater, if not surrounded by, and connected with thick substance, than when they have this support. Parts which are thin and loose, or insulated as it were, are much in this situation; and hence the danger is much greater, when that part of the peritonaeum which covers the intestine, than that which lines the abdominal muscles, is inflamed. The danger in this case is also increased by the circumstance noticed above, of the sympathetic influence exerted by these organs on the whole system. Inflammation of the testicle is attended with much depression, but it is not so insulated as intestines, and therefore the same effect is not produced. Hence also inflammation of the kidney more frequently ends in suppura- tion than in mortification. After this general exposition of the doctrine, we must attempt some division of the cases for assistance in practice. Parts previously healthy are, ceteris paribus, much better able to bear inflammation than those which have been injured. This, then, gives us one great division into inflammation aris- ing in parts already debilitated, and in parts healthy at the time of its accession. These last may be subdivided into, 1st, Those naturally very sensible to all kinds of ordinary stimu- lants, as, for instance, the skin. This is less apt than the rest, both to be injured itself, and to injure the system. It can bear pain better; pain there sinks the system less, and there is an aptitude to change the inflammatory action into the secreting or ulcerative. In a body previously healthy, this part sinks under inflammation chiefly where the excitement has been very great, or when a debilitating cause has been operating, such as contagion. 2d, Those of acquired sensibility, and great sympathetic influence, particularly when they are in a manner insulated, or attached by thin and slender connexions. When contagions or morbid poisons co-operate, these effects will be proportioned to the habitude of the affected part.