513 to rectify the chylopoietic organs ; the only difference being, that when the evil began in them and not in the wound, the means, if they prove at all effectual, may do so more speedily. Traumatic fever puts on different appearances, accord- ing to the effects produced on different parts of the cere- bellum, medulla oblongata, and spinal chord. In some cases an excitement is produced in one part, communicating a similar state to the rest of the system. In other cases we find that the action is very irregular and even variable. The pulse at one time is extremely quick, and soon again is pre- ternaturally slow. The heat is increased, and then, at least, in certain parts, diminished, the face flushed and then pale : the skin dry, and then wet; the eye always troubled. This state invariably marks an affection of the spinal chord, pro- duced either by causes acting directly on it, such as an im- mediate injury; or indirectly, such as a distant injury. In all these cases, there is much lassitude, and when the spinal chord is particularly affected, there is paralytic debility. In most instances the tongue from the first is furred, or very soon be- comes so ; there is nausea, sometimes a bilious vomiting, and the stools are altered. Cold and shivering may arise in the case of an wound, from the mere alteration, or changes necessarily produced in the condition of the part, more especially, if it be a sensible or vital organ. It is placed in new circumstances, in a condi- tion altogether different from its natural state. Whatever affects the nervous system suddenly and violently, either in regard to sensation or as shock, is likely to produce cold; hence severe burns are instantly followed by chilness. Par- ticular conditions of the stomach produce coldness, and these may indirectly be signals of external injury. Shivering may be followed by heat, or it may not; but it generally is. When it occurs after a wound or operation, it is always a suspicious circumstance: yet it is no certain harbinger of danger, nor unequivocal indication of the accession of inflammation, for it may arise from the mere alteration of the condition of the injured part. It demands great attention; and if local pain and other symptoms indicate inflammation, no time is 2 L /