of the surgeon. Some used the nitrate of silver, or the alkaline caustic, or sulphuric acid, or corrosive sublimate, which killed many in a dreadful manner. The one of the most frequent was the sulphate of copper tied up in a little bag, and hence called, technically, a button of vitriol. This was laid on the mouth of the vessel, and firmly retained, so as to produce, by its solution, an eschar. So late as the year 1735, similar pegs, made of alum, were used in the French army. Many astringents, or styptic compositions, were also employed, which were supposed to act, not by producing an eschar, but by constringing the vessel. But, if the opinions of modern physiologists be correct, this mode of operating cannot be admitted. In so far as these applications were at all useful, they must have acted either as astringents on the neighbouring contractile fibres, or chemically in coagulating the blood, or as irritants inflaming the vessel. They were totally useless, however, in arteries of large size, and derived their temporary reputation, chiefly from experiments made on brutes, in whom haemorrhage is much more easily restrained than in man. The mere exposure of the vessel, in order to Apply the styptic, might be sufficient alone, or aided by the coldness of the fluid, or of the air, to close vessels of secondary size. Very cold water would have the same temporary effect, and Larrey tells us, that in amputations after the battle ot Eylau, it was only necessary, owing to the cold, to tie the great trunks. Cold water, or cold air, may, in one respect, be considered as styptics, and capable of restraining, in most cases, bleeding from trifling arteries. On this principle, the entire division of an wounded artery, permitting its retrac- tion, and rapid contraction, is effectual in some instances, and has been professedly advised by Albucasis, and other old writers. Sponge, dipped in cold water, and pressed on the artery, was used both by Celsus and Albucasis. But modern surgeons employ it dry, and having compressed it into as small bulk as possible, thrust it into the cavity where the vessel lies, or bind it down on the bleeding surface. Agaric, has in the same way been employed by the modern surgeons.