not, however, disproportioned to the aliment taken, must he obtained by a mild laxative, such as the compound rhubarb pill, the aloetic pill, Cheltenham salts, rhubarb and magnesia, &c. When sickness, griping, or headach, are produced by efficient doses, or when such doses as can be depended on, are apt to act too powerfully, the daily use of a clyster of tepid water to solicit their operation, is of much benefit. In chronic disease, much advantage may be derived from the use of mineral waters of an aperient kind, and their utility is greatly aided by the change of air, regular habits, and other cir- cumstances too evident to require explanation. It is not to be expected, that when the bowels have been neglected, one or two days of attention can be of any service, but we must persevere for weeks or months. On the other hand, we must not place all our reliance on purgatives; we must not have the patient exclaim, in the words quoted by Johnson in one of his Lives, I forget which, “ Cordials in pity give, For I too weak for purging grow.” Purgatives are good, but they may be, and I fear sometimes are rendered instruments of destruction; unless they improve the appetite, the digestion, the strength, they do harm. It is quite a senseless system to push them as long as the stools are offensive;—what stools ought not to be offensive ? As for the appearance, I suspect that often the argument for purging is derived from the effect produced by the medicine itself. The digestion is to be improved, particularly in chronic disease. This is to be done, first of all, by avoiding every thing which disagrees with the stomach, and also by refraining from putting too much into it. There have been many rules laid down respecting diet, and there are certain diseases, in which a strictly vegetable diet is inculcated, and others, in which a more liberal one is allowed, and the articles are specified according to the taste or whim of the doctor. Now, far be it from me to sneer at the science of dietetics; much more may be accomplished by general rules, than by particular in- structions, and especially by those more befitting a charlatan