99 precisely the same; and we have besides great varieties pro- duced by the part of the medulla spinalis or brain principally affected, and the extent of substance directly acted on, as well as the intensity of action. As a thousand different agents may produce febrile action, so are there as many varieties of disease, which it may not be possible to detect. I am quite aware that this view will include under fever some states which noso- logists will not be willing to admit,, such as that produced by racing, by any violent exertion, or by intoxication, &c. Now, I have no objection to admit at once, that I see no reason why these should not be called fever, more than why anger should not truly be called a short madness. I know of no rational distinction, as to real character, which can be founded on mere duiation ; and, in point of fact, we find, that if a patient have just recovered from any fever which may be repeated, (I speak not of small-pox, &c.), and have a state of.fever renewed by any of those causes, which in health might have been temporary, or if he have been predisposed strongly to disease, such causes may produce a very protracted disease. There are two kinds of fever attended with local disease. First> those in which the local disease has acted as a cause exciting the origin of the nerves. Second, those in which the excitement was more immediately and directly produced or engendered in the origin, and this may produce improper action in the extremities of the nerves, or disease in the part supplied by them; and the general fever may exceed all pro- portion to the local disease, still more frequently in this, than in the first division. Now, applying this division to inflam- mation, we do find, that in some instances the immediate exciting cause does first manifest itself by the production of fever, and then the local disease takes place, whilst in others the local inflammation exists for a short time before the fever appears. There is also a third class of cases, where they are so nearly simultaneous, that it is impossible to say which has the precedence. Let any one keep an accurate account of the history of his cases of pleurisy, for instance, and lie shall find, that in many of these his patient, after being exposed to cold, wet, and fatigue, had a shivering fit, went to bed, was