ot an indolent ulcer than many which receive it; for it is still truly an ulcer, that is, a granulating sore, whilst it exhibits no healthy energy; and if the fanciful language of Mr. Hunter were to be followed out, I would say it accumulates granula- tions from mere laziness, disliking the trouble of absorbing them regularly, and of forming skin. It would be of more consequence to discover the exciting cause, than to invent a name for this state. Some deep-seated irritation, or an excite- ment of the neighbouring parts, but not to a degree sufficient to change or destroy the granulating action, is a frequent, but not the only cause. Hence a diseased bone, or the pre- sence of an extraneous substance, will produce fungus. Fun- gus often appears at the orifice of a sinus, but in such cases, the bone, tendon, or other subjacent parts, are greatly diseased. Fungus may also be produced by slighter causes, which we cannot always detect; but still it is to be considered as a symptom either of the presence of some injurious irrita- tion, or the want of that sympathy with the neighbouring sur- face which is necessary to pi’oduce cicatrization. When it arises from mechanical or deep-seated irritation, it can only be cured by the removal of that irritation; in all other cases, we may succeed by pressure and gentle stimulants. A roller should be applied, after the ulcer has been dressed, along the whole limb, or strips of adhesive plaster may be applied around the limb at the seat of the ulcer, but not without the assistance of the roller. We may also, if necessary, bathe the part daily with a solution of sulphate of copper, in the pro- portion of two grains of the salt to an ounce of -water, or of such a strength as not to smart much. A solution of the nitrate of silver of the same sti'engtli is also a useful wash. But one of the most frequent, and most formidable devia- tions of the ulcerative action, is the state of excitement, or the irritated ulcer. Let any man, who has a healthy ulcer on his leg, walk too far, or let him drink of ardent spirits, or bring into operation any other cause of excitement, and he shall immediately perceive the consequences to the ulcer. An ulcer, if we admit it to be dependant on an action of a living part, must be affected by the nature, and ordinary, or acquired