89 chronic, or assuefacta. It is not my intention to enter into a detail of the changes produced on the various textures by this state. I will only observe, that at least till this state terminate in some other disease, and an entirely new organ- ization be produced, the vascularity continues nearly as great as in acute inflammation; or if any difference exist, it is in the somewhat less injection of the capillary arteries, and the pre- ponderance of the veins. The part is always thickened, and will be either harder or softer than in the natural state, according to the relation that it bore to firm fibrin. The brain will be harder, many other parts softer, than in health. Another distinction is into simple and specific inflamma- tion. The first comprehends inflammation produced by ordinary or natural agents, as heat, cold, stimulants, external injury, &c. and may be farther subdivided into the various modifications dependant on structure; as, for instance, rheu- matism affecting the fibrous texture, or those arising from the difference of the cause, for even in what is called simple inflam- mation there may be a peculiarity connected with the difference of the cause and its intensity. This would lead to a multitude of distinctions, and we might farther form subdivisions accord- ing to the constitutional and sympathetic effects. But how- ever essential it may be for the practitioner to be acquainted with these, and prepared for them, they never can be so methodized as to form the basis of a practical arrangement. The second division embraces those inflammations produced by peculiar contagions and viruses, and some more obscure causes, such as syphilis, cancer, scrofula, variola, gout, &c. SECTION FIFTH. Inflammation has different modes of termination. It may abate, and the part return to health. This is called resolu- tion. There is a preliminary stage in which the vessels are merely enlarged, and the sensibility increased ; and recovery here consists in the contraction of the vessels, and the diminu- tion of sensibility, and these are probably connected with each other. If we expose for a short time the intestine of a rabbit, we find its surface becomes much more vascular, branches