398 possibly prevented it, it must inflame. Ii it do adhere, it seldom inflames, and never to any severe degree, if it be not improperly exasperated. Another circumstance connected both with the accession ol inflammation, and the failure of adhesion, is the thinness and insulation of the divided part. Were a thin tube or canal effectually detached to a certain extent from the neighbouring parts, or a portion of these dissected away from it, a slit made in that canal, in all probability would not adhere, both from the action not being properly supported by the neighbouring parts, and also mechanically from the difficulty or impossi- bility of keeping the thin edges in contact. If a canal be cut, along with thicker parts or coverings, direct union will, with exceptions arising from peculiarity of function, take place; oi’, if it have been detached from the surrounding parts, still, if these be brought again into contact with it, adhesion may take place, first, by the exterior surface of the canal adhering to the surrounding surface applied to it, and, secondly, by the slit itself then healing. But if this circumjacent union do not previously take place, the canal or cavity does not unite. This is a fact important to operating surgeons. If, for example, they extensively and wantonly detach the prostate gland, and bladder in lithotomy, from the neighbouring parts, by working heedlessly with their finger, the wound is more likely to end in a fistula than by adhesion. A slit in a bowel is also healed by adhesion to the neighbouring bowels, an unnatural adhesion, no doubt, but one which is necessary. Having thus explained the natural process of adhesion, I must notice, that adhesion may also be produced by inflam- mation, as a cause. This, which is an unnatural, or diseased process, is quite different from that of direct adhesion, and is manifested variously in different cases. In cavities lined with serous membranes, we find that inflammation may either pro- duce an increased secretion of serum, and a species of dropsy, or an obliteration of the cavity, by coalescence of the surfaces. The occurrence of one or other of these events is not always determined by the actual degree of inflammation. In order to have adhesion produced, the inflammation must destroy the