30 inflammation with swelling, or phlegmon, the redness proceeds greatly from infiltration or extravasation of blood, or bloody fibrin into the cells. Redness, however, even when accompanied by pain, is no proof of the existence of inflammation in the part. These changes may take place in the vicinity of an inflamed spot from mere excitement, so as to make inflammation appear to be more extensive than it really is, for the intimate texture of this portion is not altered. Swelling is an attendant, to a greater or less degree, accord- ing to the texture of the part. It is in some, apparently little, but if compared to the natural thickness of the part, membrane for instance, it is considerable. It is produced partly by the turgescence or enlargement of the vessels, but principally by new deposition. In inflammation, for example, of mucous or serous membranes, the turgescence is principally from the number and size of the vessels, whilst in inflammation of the cellular substance, it is chiefly from new deposition. The interstitial fluid which was naturally secreted into the cells is altered, and becomes more like fibrin, though still perhaps containing albumen, and this being increased in quantity, not only renders the part larger, but also harder. There is, besides, in all serous inflammations, partial extrava- sation of red blood, sometimes to a considerable degree. If we inflame the intestine of a rabbit, and examine it with the microscope, we see not only multitudes of red vessels, but also here and there, particles of extravasation into the substance of the canal. If we inflame a muscle, we see its fibres often infiltrated with blood, or in those animals whose muscles are pale, as the rabbit or frog, the inflamed part is distinguished not so much by its vascularity, as by its deeper colour, from general effusion of blood. But in the lung this is still better seen, the arborescence of vessels on the surface of the inflamed part being distinguishable from the engorgement of blood in the cellular texture, which gives the part a solid appearance. In slighter degrees there are only particles of blood, or spots, where the inflammation is most intense. Although these effu- sions of blood may frequently occur in inflammation, yet