118 even after long continuance, local, it not general evacuation, and the use of some internal remedies, afterwards to be noticed, may cure a disease that he considered as hopeless. I am not here to explain the connexion of the system with these local states, but rather to proceed to inquire into what the local state is. Having, in another work published long ago, entered fully into the detail of the former theories, from the time of the ancients downward, 1 shall be satisfied, in the present state of science, with merely mentioning, that the comparatively later doctrines of error loci, viscidity of blood, spasm of the extreme vessels, and augmentation ol the vessels, induced either by mere debility, according to Vacca, or by an act of dilatation, according to Mr. Hunter, can never explain the cause. The present opinion, so far as I know, is divided between the supposition, that increased action, or debility of the capillary vessels, is the proximate cause. The prevalent notion seems to be, that inflammation is produced by an increased action ot the trunk and larger branches, with a debilitated condition of the capillaries. Many eminent men have experimented on this subject; but Dr. Hastings has brought their doctrine, and his own, so far as debility is con- cerned, into a very short compass. He imagines that inflam- mation cannot exist without either great slowness, or total stagnation of the blood in the capillaries; and farther, that the blood itself loses its globular appearance, and is convei ted into a red homogeneous mass. When resolution, that is, recovery, takes place, the blood begins again to move, and becomes globular. Neither he nor any other author of the present day, I believe, deny more or less increased action to exist on the larger branches. The opinion thus formed by him, and also by Drs. Thomson, Wilson, &c. is founded on microscopical observation on the inflamed web of frogs’ feet, mesentery of rabbits, &c. I have made numerous experiments on this subject on different animals, and parts of the body, and with the most attentive observation, after applying various stimulants in the clearest light, and marking their effects at successive periods. First of all, I would remark, that by exciting the tunica conjunctiva of the eye, or the peritoneal