have most the appearance of fat contain more or less lymph, most of them indeed are in a great measure made up ol it. Leaving it as a matter still to be proved that any such enlarge- ment, as merits the name of a tumour, arises from the mere augmentation of the natural texture of the part, I would adopt at once the conclusion, that a tumour is a new forma- tion. A phlegmon, or an acute inflammatory swelling, we have seen, possesses a particular texture, which, in the process of resolution, is gradually absorbed, and the natural texture restored, but it may happen that neither resolution nor sup- puration takes place. Active inflammation ceases, but the part is not restored to health. It still remains enlarged. It still possesses an unnatural structui’e; it performs an action neither inflammatory nor healthy, but one peculiar to itself. Injure a part in any way, so as to produce a disorganization either mechanically or vitally, but more readily in one texture than in another, more easily, for instance, in a secreting gland than in cellular substance, and a similar result takes place. Some degree of inflammation may take place, modified per- haps by rupture of vessels, and effusion of blood, or secretion of coagulable lymph. As we have no proof that blood can remain alive after its extravasation, it can only in those cases, where a return to the natural organization does not take place, be considered as a peculiar stimulus to the orifice of the vessels, which, when it is absorbed, deposit or secrete in its place a substance more or less resembling it, and with varying proportions of red globules. There may be much of the red deposite forming hepatized texture; there may con- tinue, in different parts, to be an effusion still more resembling blood. On the other hand, we may have none of the colour- ing matter deposited, but the lymph more or less altered. The blood consists of different parts, which are yielded in different degrees and altered states in the various textures of the body; and as lymph or globules may happen to prepon- derate in the swelling produced more immediately by the injuring cause, so may the vessels continue to be influenced in their succeeding depositions. There are white textuies ot various density, and red of different hues and consistence.