may in one respect be considered as on the same footing, namely, disorders of the digestive, or other distant, organs acting sympathetically on the part, but by some general pecu- liarity of the constitution, which, for want of a better term, may be called as it wont to be, the cancerous diathesis. This I would suppose the case, for example, in those instances where several members of the same family are affected, and, often perhaps, where both breasts are affected about the same time. Even, however, in these cases, we must make a dis- tinction between the cancerous diathesis or propensity, and the cancerous disease in the organ. This last is still a local disease, produced, however, by a peculiar predisposition acting on a previous change of organization. But it differs materially from the first case that we considered, in this, that the change is produced, not by pauses strictly local, but by diathesis, still that diathesis requiring a previous alteration of organization to seize upon. We may by removing early the changed or cancerous texture, bring the patient back to the state she was in before, that is, a state of diathesis, with- out an organ actually diseased. But as a person of a fero- cious temper is always ready to break out into some overt act of violence, so is this constitution always disposed to carry the first change from healthy structure in any organ, on with rapid strides to actual cancer. If I be correct in this dis- tinction of cancer into that which may be called accidental, or is dependant almost entirely on local causes, and that which sfeems to have obtained its chaiactei 'fiom a diathesis, it will be admitted that the former, at an early stage, is much less formidable than the latter, in as much, as the complete extirpation of the diseased part leaves the patient well, and without any peculiar tendency to a recurrence. We have seen, in the history of the disease, that, in every instance, the health suffers, and the constitution, either early or late, becomes diseased. This secondary effect must not be confounded with cancerous diathesis. The former is a peculiar state of cachexia, whilst the latter is merely a disposi- tion to disease; in the same way as there may be a scrofulous diathesis leading to actual tumour, productive in its turn of