attended with fever, may produce sizy blood without con- traction, as we see in pregnancy ; and hence very slight disease in the puerperal state may be attended with great apparent effect on the blood. Different causes have been assigned for the appearance of . the huffy coat, such as slowness of coagulation, &c. Now, if we concede that slow coagulation allowed the globules to subside before the fibrin coagulated, still we must seek for some other cause productive of the great contraction of the coat in high inflammation. We must look to an alteration in the state, or vital properties of the blood itself, indepen- dent of all mechanical explanations; and must not only admit, so far as facts go, a greater tendency in such blood to sepa- rate rapidly into its constituent parts, but also a change in the properties of these parts, the fibrin coagulating more firmly, and the serum being less disposed to coagulate. The alteration in the state of the globules is more obscure. The blood undergoes a more decided change in the small vessels of the inflamed part itself. Dr. Hastings maintains that it necessarily loses its globular appearance, otherwise he does not admit that inflammation exists, and that it is con- verted into a thick homogeneous fluid of a red colour. I have made many microscopic observations to determine this point, and am quite satisfied that all the appearances of inflammation may take place whilst globules are still visible, but admit the frequency of the change, and perhaps its universality in high degrees. I need not tell those who are conversant with such experiments, that the colour depends much on the brightness of the light, and the fulness of the vessel. If the light be concentrated, and the vessels of the frog’s web natural, the globules appear like brilliant specks, having a reddish or o-olden hue, if their brilliancy do not overpower their tint, moving in a colourless fluid, or rather in a stream merely so interrupted as to show the individuality of the globules. If the light be duller, the colour is red or reddish, and the bril- liancy is absent. If the vessel be more empty than natural, the globules assume a brownish colour, and seem to float indolently in a watery fluid. This is still better seen in the