SiS or of scrofula, or of cancer. If the conversion of the ori- ginal tumour into one or other of these conditions was found to be always of the same nature in similar organs, we would refer the fact to be explained by the peculiar properties of the part. But the same organ may have formed in it in one person a cancerous, in another a spongoid, and in a third a scrofulous tumour. We can only explain this difference, on the principle either of peculiarity of constitution giving a predisposition, or of some peculiarity in the operation of the exciting cause. Perhaps both of these may have an influ- ence. It has, for example, been remarked, that an indura- tion consequent to a milk abscess, rarely ends in cancer, whilst one produced by a blow very often does. Certain constitutions seem also to favour the production of cancer ; as a proof of which, I may mention that I have known three sisters die owing to cancer of the breast. I know not in what this peculiarity of constitution consists, nor any mark by which it can be distinguished. A tendency to scrofula might be supposed to diminish that to cancer; but so far as I can trust my own observation, I would say that this can only be held true, when the scrofulous condition is exquisite, and that a milder degree rather favours the production of cancer. I do not wish from this to be understood as saying, that tumours which exhibited the exquisite characters of scrofula become converted into cancer, but merely that a scrofulous taint, as it has been called, rather favours than prevents the transition of an indurated gland into cancer. When a tumour, originally of the simple chronic inflammatory tex- ture, changes its nature, it generally, if not always, continues or is bound (if I may use the expression) by the election it has made, and cannot, Proteus like, change successively from one kind into another. What can determine the peculiar kind of transition of the simple tumour, it would be of great importance to be able to ascertain; but on this important and rich field for investigation there have been few labourers, and consequently we possess few facts. The time required for the conversion of what may be called the simple inflam- matory texture, into the cancerous one, is very variable. In