87 outwardly or inwardly, and this of course diminishes the tendency to phlegmon. 5. Many cutaneous inflammations, whether named erythema or erysipelas, do arise from deep inflammation, as, for instance, that of fascia, periosteum, &c. 6. 1 he connexion and sympathy of the cutaneous nerves is very extensive; and as inflammation depends greatly on the action of the nerves, we may readily explain both the extension of inflammation, and its appearance in other parts. 7. The influence of the internal viscera on the cutaneous surface, however explained, is notorious, and many cases of ei}sipelas do aiise from that source, and from the same cause become erratic. 8. This must be still more frequent when an exciting cause is applied to the skin, or an injury is inflicted; but in vhatever way the erysipelas in such cases begins, the habit of l)ody is little able to bear disease, and the system is soon injured. The state of the skin quickly exerts an influence on hat of the subcutaneous texture, and it participates in the sinking or debilitated state: hence gangrene of that texture takes place. 9. Inflammation beginning in the skin, if from a local cause in a healthy system, is confined to the part, or if it extend to other textures, these follow their own course. But if caused by, or connected with, a depraved and morbid habit, it is of a bad kind, and communicates sympathetically a similar bad, or perhaps gangrenous, state to the parts below, (and vice versa.) Even independent of constitution, the condition of the nerves themselves has a great influence on cutaneous inflammation. 10. Much depends on the extent to which the exciting cause has been applied, and the degree in which it has acted* as well as on the constitution. In a laceration with or without friction, for instance, the whole parts may be incapable of sustaining inflammation. The muscles may inflame and perish, so may the cellular substance, and the skin, partici- pating in all this, will inflame also and die; yet, surely, in such cases, there is nothing peculiar in the nature of the in-