197 case we have no ulceration, which implies granulation. We have merely a secreting surface, without disorganization or destruction of its component parts. The secretion may continue for a considerable time, exudation of lymph takes place, and if evaporation go on briskly, or dry applications be made, a scab or crust covers the surface, and it heals, or it may heal, without interference, by the secretion ceasing, and cuticle forming. In either case no scar is left, but the part temains long red, and for a length of time is apt to become purple in cold weather, or red if the circulation be excited. So long as the vesicles are entire, the pain is less, the papillae not being exposed; but when they break or peel off, the sen- sibility is greater. When they have broken, or the cuticle has been removed by the injuring cause, or in rashly pulling off clothes, the danger is greater in proportion to the pain and irritability of the patient. When colouring matter, as gun- powder, is introduced, either in this or in the degree "first stated, it remains long, producing the effect of tatooing. 3. Ulceration is produced, and this is in general tedious, and much disposed to form fungous granulations. If the sore be small, and the constitution good, the discharge is not dis- pioportionate to its size; but if large, and there be much consequent irritation, or otherwise a disorder of the constitu- tion, the discharge is excessive, and usually ill smelled. After the immediate severity of the injury is over, the pain is not great. There is always a scar left, and often the cicatrix is elevated, smooth, and redder than the rest of the skin. There is also a tendency to puckering of the skin. Ulceration may succeed vesication, but it is inevitable when the cutis is destroyed, or so much inflamed, as to perish either by slouch or rapid absorption. 4. I he subjacent parts are inflamed, or otherwise injured, and not only during ulceration, but also after cicatrization, there is great pain, and thereby inability to use the member. Both the nerves and the tendons are rendered preternaturally sensible, and when the part is made dependant, the pressure °* llle blood is Patnful. There is in this case, in addition to t ic tendency of the cicatrix to contract, a risk of the parts