408 degree, or small stream, to go on. So long as the coagulum acts, the flow is restrained. Second, The artery may either be completely torn across, or so injured as to reduce it, in so far as the power of con- veying blood is concerned, into the same state. The retracted ends are buried in the remains of the sheath, and are very irregularly and indefinitely connected with the bloody cavity formed under the fascia and among the muscles. We can easily conceive how the blood, were there no powerful resistance, could flow from the upper orifice, although that might be interwoven with clots and shreds of lacerated substance. But the under one, under these circumstances, has not the same capability, of gaping to receive the blood, that the upper one has to throw it out. If the under orifice had that capability, the enlargement of the bloody cavity would not only soon stop, but the circulation would go on freely in the original trunk, and no change could be effected on the collateral branches. I take the decided ground that when an artery is cut, or torn across, no blood passes from the one end into the other, and the direct circulation is instantly checked, as effectually as if a ligature had been applied. For a period, at least, the lower limb can only be supplied by blood sent . on by the collateral branches; and were the sac at this period opened, blood would be seen to issue directly from the upper, and, by a retrograde course, from the under orifice. Third, As this retrograde circulation, from the lower ori- fice, is feeble, it might be expected that a moderate resistance should restrain it, and that such a resistance might readily be afforded by a clot, and then we should have only to look to the upper orifice as the cause of the tumour increasing. The fascia and muscles, and layers of coagulum in the sac, must come to afford, at last, a resistance to farther increase, and then the whole blood in the sac, slowly coagulating, would check entirely the flow from the end of the artery, and lead to a natural cure. But this is quite a groundless supposition, for the sac is not stationary in its progress, nor does the upper end of the artery become filled with a clot, and then permanently obliterated. A temporary obstruction