48 Serous membranes are by some considered in no other light than as the epidermis, and as possessing no vessels, the exhalents or vascular apparatus being situated in a cellular structure below. It appears to me to be an useless discus- sion, for were there a real pathological distinction, we should find, as in the cutis, vesication produced by inflammation. I therefore speak of the membrane as a simple investure, the more superficial vessels being serous, the deeper red. When inflamed, the membrane loses its shining aspect, and appears somewhat rough, many bloody points appear, and the cellu- lar structure becomes thicker, and serous infiltration takes place: the red vessels become more numerous, but do not at first ramify universally, the redness beginning in clusters. Numerous points of red appear, and at last, the whole is externally red, or nearly so, and many arborescent vessels appear. At the same time the membrane becomes opaque and dull where it is not red. In mild degrees of inflammation, or in the incipient stage, as well as when it is abating, the serous effusion is often increased; and, particularly if the part remain in a chronic state of inflammation, a species of dropsy may be the result. This is often observed in affections of the testicle, the effusion ceasing whenever the state of the testicle is improved. But if the inflammation have been acute and high, the surface is covered with a layer of lymph, and the secretion of serous fluid stops. The vessels are covered, but if the layer be removed, the surface is still seen to be red and spongy, or like velvet. In some cases this layer is absorbed, and the function of the membrane restored. In others, vessels extend from the membrane which covers the organ, to that which lines the cavity, and union takes place; the lymph becomes absorbed, and the two layers of membrane are incorporated. In other cases, a thick intermedium of fibrin, called a false membrane, remains for years. Pus may also in violent inflam- mation be formed. There is generally sharp pain attendant on inflammation of serous membranes. I am of opinion that the inflammation is always higher in the layer which covers the organ, than in that which lines the cavity. If we inject