256 was therefore agreed, that in absence of a regular permit from the graduate, half a drachm should be smuggled into the stomach of the patient every four hours. The mortifica- tion stopped, and he recovered on the removal of all the bones of his foot. The medicine immediately acquired greater celebrity, but even at a very early period doubts were enter- tained of its efficacy, and Mr. Sharp, after telling us that he made many trials of it, says that he was not satisfied that it was better than the usual cordials. This seems to be very much the present opinion. We may partly account for the failure of bark, by observing how frequently it is adulterated, or how little quinine is contained in many specimens. But besides this, whatever virtue the drug possesses, it is clear as noon-day, that it cannot be equally efficacious in every variety of this disease. There are some causes of mortification, o\ ei which it can have no more control than animal magnetism. In that kind which we are at present considering, I am satis- fied that it is frequently of service; and if on so serious a subject I might use the expression, I should certainly say that it was amusing to find some who believe bark to be nearly inert, prohibiting at the same time its exhibition, dining the existence of inflammation. Half a drachm of the powder of bark, or three grains of the sulphate of quinine, may be given every three or four hours, in the medium most acceptable to the patient. Where it is rejected by the stomach, or produces sickness or diarrhoea, or diminishes the inclination for food or nourishment, it is decidedly improper. Where it produces no bad effects, it is surely, at least, harm- less. Some forbid its use till the tongue become clean, and the bowels have been subjected to methodical purges. I approve of having the alvine accumulation discharged, but see no necessity for prolonged evacuation, or waiting for a clean tongue ; that is to say, waiting till it is no longer needed, till nature have gained the victory. Douglass’s patient derived advantage from the bark, although his tongue was “ as dry as a nutmeg grater ” Aromatics are supposed to make bark lighter, whilst the addition of a little rhubarb, or of opium, is proposed when it acts on the bowels. I am not confident