549 ham water, will be found very useful. When the skin is arid the common saline julap is a very good medicine. It is very difficult, and delicate, to manage the constitution of those who have lived intemperately, when they are affected with disease, or subjected to injury, and no distinct and gene- ral rule can be given. The condition produced, varies, not only, according to the original constitution of the patient, his age, the length of time he has been imprudent, and the degree of his intemperance, but also with other cffcumstances, such as his abstinence from food, or gorging his stomach, the nature of the stimulant he has taken, wine, spirits, porter, and the degree of exertion he has made, the temperature he has been exposed to, and the apparent extent of the alteration produced on the nervous system, and organs of digestion. Generally speaking, under disease, no more stimulus should be allowed than is absolutely necessary to prevent sinking, or injurious irritation, from the want of a long continued excita- tion. Such stimuli, should be given, as act more on the stomach than on the system, such as some spices, and only a moderate portion of wine, or any form of fermented liquor. Opium may, if it allay uneasiness, be a useful substitute for alcohol, or at least make much less be sufficient; and, indeed, in no one case, whatever the former habits have been, should we give one ounce of wine, or spirits, or porter, more than is imperatively called for by the existing state of the system; and the effect both on the pulse, on the feelings, on the stomach, on the mind, and on the sleep, as well as on the temperature, and on the local disease, must be watched. Such patients bear evacuation ill, and, therefore, when bleeding is necessary, we must use the lancet very early, and not push it far. Purgatives are more useful, and, in moderation, are always safe, but neither are they to be carelessly prescribed. Mild mercurial preparations, such as the blue pill, with gentle laxatives, often are useful, and the exhibition of the saline julap is beneficial. The diet should be light, and given in small quantity, as frequently as the stomach will receive it with comfort. I can say but little in favour of quinine, and