318 cavernosa penis et clitoridis, the nipple, placenta, spleen, &c. This, which he calls the “ tissue erectile,” may be formed as an unnatural texture in any part of the body, most frequently in the cellular substance immediately under the skin. On exa- mining these tumours, they are found to be soft, stringy, and cellular, like the placenta, to which they bear a great resem- blance, only are not so soft, nor so easily torn. Another kind, however, is made up rather of convoluted vessels than of cells, but there is very little difference in the progress or treatment. Such unnatural growths are, farther, of two varieties, according as the arterial or venous vessels predomi- nate. The arterial is the more acute, as well as the more dangerous; it is generally, but by no means universally, congenital, and appeal's like a red spot, or little elevated pimple. But when this is examined, it is found that the redness does not proceed from inflammation, but from a multitude of vessels congregated under the skin. They sink apparently pretty deep, but are not alike superficial, and therefore the tumour is somewhat mottled. Even at this early period, crying, or whatever can excite the vascular sys- tem, renders the speck both more turgid and more florid. On the other hand, cold, sickness, or pressure, will render it for a time less distinct. Pressure readily slackens this tumour, and when it is then grasped between the fingers, it has a doughy or spongy feel. The red colour of the surface, which can be seen, is greatly diminished; when the pi’essure is removed, the swelling rapidly returns, the colour is resumed, and the vessels sometimes which feed the tumour can be seen to pulsate strongly. When the tumour is excited by heat, exertion, or anger, we can also then more readily discover the pulsation of vessels, going to supply the tumour, when they are superficial. Such formations may remain long without increasing; they may even sometimes, though rarely, disap- pear by an obliteration of the vessels. But a person who has this tumour is never safe, although it may have remained sta- tionary for many years. When it does increase, it is much more apt to spread in the texture in which it was originally formed, than to propagate itself amongst some other strnc-