216 When ulceration penetrates into a joint, and the bones are carious, or when obstinate ulcers form over the tibia, with disease of the periosteum or bone, it may become necessary to perform amputation, if we fail by the ordinary means to cure the disease. SECTION ELEVENTH. If the action of a part be carried greatly beyond its power, and particularly if that action be of such a nature as renders the supply of power less, the part must soon be destroyed. Inflammation of parts which are weak is productive of this effect. It not merely interferes with the supply of energy, but exhausts rapidly that which is possessed. I have, at page 19, considered weakness as divisible into primary or ante- cedent, consecutive and conjunct, all of which may bear on the present subject. Parts may be wTeak before or at the time of the accession of inflammation, or after the production of inflammation, or by the powerful operation ot a concomitant cause, in addition to the effect of inflammation itself; for although inflammation have a tendency to weaken the part, this cause must not simply be considered here. First, Parts may be artificially weakened by the positive subduction of a necessary stimulus, as that of blood or heat. Plence, limbs which have the arterial circulation suddenly obstructed by wound or ligature, or the arterial action impeded by ossification, or which have been exposed to great cold, become thereby debilitated. Seco?id, A great degree of excitement may also be followed by a corresponding debility, under one of two circumstances. First, The part may have been much impaired in its struc- ture and functions by the injury, at the same time that it was also greatly excited, as we observe in limbs which are crushed or bruised, where we have a double source of danger; a direct impairing or diminution of power on the one hand, and a direct excitement to increased action on the other. Second, There may have been simply a state of great excitement pioduced without this diminution of power, in consequence of mecha- nical injury. Inflammation may either supervene on this