492 they are too often combined, and that not always in a way so distinct, as to permit of accurate division, or useful rules. We have not merely a simple excitement of a debilitated system, but we have the local excitement or irritation, acting on a system which was originally debilitated by that local injury, and, which sinking, is so identified with the local condition, or dependant on it, that no mere cordial, or single mean of supporting strength can be effectual. Nay, farther, it may even be necessary, from the effect of local and general excita- tion, to have recourse to evacuants, which shall require to be pushed to a greater or less extent, according to the degree of permanent debility produced more immediately by the accident. Friction, clysters, &c. have been advised in the state of shock, but it is doubtful how far they may not add to the evil, by the trouble they give the patient. In this secondary stage of excitement, it is highly bene- ficial to exhibit purgatives, to such an extent as careful obser- vation of their effects shall warrant. Topical and general bloodletting are also, from the cause I have mentioned, often and early required ; and, sometimes, the extent to which these evacuations must be carried, is much greater than at first sight could be expected. We must not, however, go farther than is absolutely necessary, and after these evacuations, may find it necessary to give quinine and mild cordials, with light but sufficient nourishment, still continuing attention to the bowels. To conclude, it must be quite obvious, that during the period of shock, or primary stage of debility, attendant on accidents, no operation can be performed without the almost certain consequence of fatal sinking. This kind of shock which I have been considering is of the nature of syncope or failure; but there is another state dif- ferent from it, but often complicated with it, arising from the incapacitating, destruction, or removal of a large member, or one of important sympathies. It may, for distinction, be termed, the shock of diminution, as it results from loss of sub- stance,’and is independent either of pain or concussion. More pain, for instance, may be felt in other operations than in amputation at the hip, and as extensive wounds may be