m blood is confined below the fascia, which remains attached to the muscles, and the muscles themselves to one another, with a steadiness proportioned to the strength and tightness of the fascia, the density of the cellular connexions, the size of the artery, and the nature of the wound made in it. The cavity thus formed for the reception of the blood, comes presently to be even well defined by the formation of a species of cyst, effected partly by the coagulation of a portion of the blood, and partly by the effusion of fibrin from the surrounding surface. A tense, circumscribed, pulsating tumour is thus formed, constituting what has been called a false aneurism; and if in the early period, the skin were dissected off, this tumour or aneurism would be found bounded externally by the fascia, through which the blQod is seen of a dark colour. On cutting the fascia and opening the sac, coagula are turned out, and fluid blood flows from the aperture in the vessel. But this aperture is not organic, neither is it capable of the process of contraction or adhesion, for it is merely a coating of fibrin, and so long as it exists, obliteration is difficult. This never can take place by any process beginning at the aper- ture, and it is only effected when the blood is so long obstructed by coagulation in the sac, or at the mouth of the vessel, as shall check or destroy, for a considerable time, the action of the artery. Another state also capable of impeding obliteration, is the extravasation of blood into the cells at the part. 1 his is particularly apt to take place when the wounded artery is of moderate size, especially when there is a firm fascia over it, and it is imbedded in a cellular texture. The blood injects the cells, and a spongy swelling is formed, into which the artery opens, and in which, even after a free inci- sion, it would be difficult to ascertain exactly its mouth. This is the case in wounds of the palmar arch. I have already noticed that the circulation through the inferior end of the artery is not uniformly direct; that is to say, the blood does not regularly pass from the superior aper- tme into the sac, and thence into the under opening. The blood may even flow from the inferior orifice, though fee- bly5 m a retrograde direction. A cause, therefore, which