494 by the degree and evidence of rallying. But there is another circumstance, connected with intoxication, which must be left entirely to the judgment of the surgeon in his decision, namely, the possibility of keeping the patient quiet or at rest, after the operation, or whether his insensibility shall do most harm in the present state or after operation. Shock is not exactly the same with exhaustion, for it implies a rapid effect, whereas a person may be slowly exhausted. Some parts, not only from their greater sensibility and suscep- tibility, are more rapidly affected than others, but also produce a greater effect on the system. If we inject a little spirit of ammonia under the skin of a rabbit, pain is caused, followed by inflammation ; but if we inject it into the intestine by punc- ture or otherwise, the animal, owing to the greater sympathy exercised by the bowel, dies almost immediately. If the abdo- men be transfixed by a narrow bistoury, so as to pierce part of the intestine; the system instantly suffers more or less by shock, and often the hinder extremities become for a short time paralytic or enervated. Shock doubtless exhausts, but exhaustion may also succeed to, or be produced by, any long continued, high, or unnatural action. It is the cause of death, in most instances of inflammation, gangrene, fever, and disease in general. In the remainder of fatal cases, death may be said to proceed rather from an essential organ, such as the brain, heart, or lungs being rendered unfit to act. The per- son dies from the interruption of a vital action, rathei than from general exhaustion. Exhaustion merits great attention, for by contending against it, unexpected recoveries have been made. When we cannot remove the diseased action, or cure the injury, we must at least endeavour to lessen their effects, and prevent the operation of causes of exhaustion. We moderate colliquative discharges, allay pain, remove what in some respects may be adventitious irritations, or may find it necessary, even mechanically, to take away, when that can be done, the diseased part. We endeavour to support the strength, and gently stimulate the system, when that has not the effect of increasing the exhaustion, for it must not be for- gotten that stimulation, if it do not prove a mean of invigo-