837 8 he strength tides not sink rapidly, but gradually, and none of die functions are decidedly injured at an early period. The organ which first seems to suffer is the stomach, or those viscera connected with digestion. Hence acidity is apt to prevail, alternated with bilious symptoms, and often with urticaria, or at least general itchiness. After an open sore is foi med, the strength sinks faster, particularly if haemorrhages take place, or it there be wearing out pain. The emaciation then becomes considerable, the pulse frequent, and there is at times a hectic flush, with thirst, and almost always decay of appetite. This state ends either in gradual sinking, and life ceases like an expiring tapei’, or the patient becomes coma- tose ,• 01. when the breast is affected, the disease may spread inwards, so that the lungs are affected, in which case serous effusion is generally met with, and to the other distresses we have added difficulty of breathing, and paroxysms of asthma. There may be distinct and very considerable hectic fever, or there may be little : the patient rather sinking under cachexia, as that lingering and wearing out condition, arising from a vitiated frame, has been called by nosologists. This is espe- cially the case when an operation has been performed, but the skin and glands have retained the disease. The pulse, perhaps, till very near the end, is unaffected, otherwise than by weakness; the strength decreases, the nights are passed without sleep, the appetite is lost, the pulse becomes intermittent, the extremities cold, and the mind wavering, the breathing oppressed, and the patient in a manner sleeps into death. r When we examine the structure* of a cancerous tumour, * If we boil a cancerous tumour in water, it becomes still harder more contracted and whiter, like coagulated albumen. M. Monn, in the Journ. de Pharmacie, September 1822, p. 415 gives an analysis of thiee different substances found in a cancerous tumour. 1st the'product of suppuration, which is described as having been solid vel- owis in colour, and small in quantity. It turned syrup of violets green and con.^tci of free ammonia, coagulated albumen, hydrosulphuret of ammo- nia, an a at matter. 2d, A reddish pultaceous substance of a fetid smell It consisted of free ammonia, much phosphate of lime, albumen, chloride of z