8 explained. But there are three ways besides this, in which health may be restored to the part. First, By the new organization perishing, and being renewed in a more natural state. Secondly, By the intermedium, of a third action, not so obstinate as the one we wish to destroy. It, no doubt alters also, according to its own nature, the organization, but the alteration is less durable, than the one it has displaced. This may be illustrated by the effect of mercury, in curing venereal tumours, and would be an effectual way of curing all diseases, and of removing malignant tumours, if we knew in every instance where to find a suitable agent. Third, By attacking the action piecemeal, or counteracting the most prominent effects, by means inducing an opposite state, as for instance, by the use of cold, bloodletting, &c. The natural or healthy action of the system, and of parti- cular oi’gans, is of two kinds, the one may be called simple or preservative, consisting of those processes or conditions which are necessary to its existence or growth. The other may be called functional, constituting the performance of the office of the part. T. hus, the stomach has a preservative action, like a bone, muscle, or nerve, but has a different functional action from any of those. Within a certain limit, the natural action may be increased or diminished without an alteration in kind or quality, but if we exceed that limit, it is altered, and no such alteration can take place, or continue, without a corresponding alteration of organization. When a new or altered action, is extended over the whole system, the change in texture may be too minute to be detected by the eye, or the knife, and the existence of the change must therefore be hypothetical. But in many local actions the degree is greater. The action is as it were concentrated, and the organization is visibly altered. This applies only, or chiefly, to preservative action, for functional action may, especially if the degree be moderate, continue affected for a long time, without any change of texture, till at last the preservative action become involved, and the organization be altered. This may be illustrated by certain degrees of dyspepsia, variations in the secretion of bile,