34 natural organization and function of the part affected, and its sympathetic properties, and connexion with the system. Second, The condition of the part, with regard to strength, weakness, sensibility, and susceptibility. Third, The nature and intensity of the exciting cause, and the circumstances concomitant with its application and operation. I have already, as an illustration of the local condition in inflammation, described the state in phlegmon, and therefore have little to say on the nature of inflammation of cellular substance, strictly so called. The alteration produced is universal. The vessels, particularly the smaller ones and capillaries, are greatly enlarged, so that without any new formation the part is more vasculai’, which makes it some- what more turgid. But the cellular texture itself, and parti- cularly its contents, are affected. The substance becomes so far altered, that it is more easily torn, and the deposition, whether merely interstitial or of a sebacious nature, is altered, both becoming fibrinous, and partly albumenous. By tearing and maceration, with occasional pressure, it. will be found, that the whole mass is more fibrinous; so that the part, when cut, has a solid, yet gelatinous appearance. This deposition is not only mixed with the coloui’ing part of the blood, but in several parts, blood, with very little, if any alteration, is effused, either as if into a spunge, or into larger and more distinct cavities. In the immediate neighbourhood, a serous or albumenous fluid is secreted into the cellular substance, which may be coagulated by heat. These changes produce a hard circumscribed swelling of the part, shading off into the neighbourhood, by a kind of oedematous state. If the inflam- mation be severe, we soon find that the corium or derma becomes involved. Its outer vascular layer, or reticular texture, becomes more injected, which produces superficial redness. This differs according to cucumstances. When it is intense, and the albumenous effusion over the surface is con- siderable, the skin is smooth, glossy, first bright, and then deep red or purple in its colour. If there be very slight effusion under the epidermis, most minute spots of vesication appear, so as to make the surface seem irregular, oedematous,