67 without any communication with the substance of the lungs. In surgical practice, the part of the lung most inflamed depends on the nature of the accident; but it appears estab- lished, that when inflammation arises from cold or similar causes, the right lung is oftener affected than the left; and the lower lobe, or portion of the viscus, oftener than the upper. The pain attendant on this inflammation is sometimes dull, sometimes sharp, which has been supposed to mark disease of the substance of the lung, or of the pleura; but even when the substance of the lung is the chief seat, the pleura does not escape, and therefore it is very difficult to say what sensation is proper to the mere affection of the parenchymatous substance. In pleurisy, the pain is more fixed, or runs in one direction, whereas in peripneumony it is more flitting; and even on the opposite side pain is sometimes felt, for the lung on that side seems to suffer by having more blood sent to it. The cells often con- tain reddish frothy mucus. In both cases, the pain is gene- tallv greatest in a recumbent posture. There is not of neces- sity a cough in pleurisy, though it may, and often does attend it; but there is no peripneumony without cough. There is also more dyspnoea, and greater flushing or lividity of counte- nance in the latter. I do not notice at present the constitu- tional effects. The effect of inflammation on the liver is as well seen in the frog, as in any other animal, for its liver is in health of the same colour with that of man. The bile in the gall-blad- der is of a sea-green colour, but it gives the bladder a deep blue colour. The dark green faeces in the rectum also give that gut a similar colour. By exposure of the liver, it soon becomes paler, and then of a greenish olive, or sometimes of a light brown colour; next, the vessels on the surface become more distinct and numerous, and then patches of red are scattered over it till the whole becomes inflamed. If we apply turpentine or solution of salt, the part is first rendered paler, duller, and soon assumes in both cases a redder appearance, as if from numerous extravasations under the surface. Weak spiiit of ammonia makes the spot from the first red, or at least the previous paleness is only momentary. The redness