434 the ligature on the attention of surgeons. Generally speak- ing, I am satisfied that adhesion and obliteration does not take place, even in quadrupeds, so speedily as some suppose. A coagulum may early fill the vessel to a certain extent, but the tube is merely plugged by it, and no adhesion may have taken place at the site of the ligature; for in some experiments, even so late as the fourth day, when the ligature was cut off, a probe passed with the utmost facility along the tube, at the spot where it had been applied, and in some instances, no coagulum existed either above or below the ligature, but the inner coat was seen to have been cut, and the line of division filled with red glossy fibrin. In all cases, we find that the outer surface becomes red and fleshy-looking, and whatever the form of the ligature may be, its site or tract suppurates, and it is by this process that it is detached. In all cases, suppuration detaches the ligature, and, therefore, cannot be considered as a cause of secondary haemorrhage ; that depends on the concomitant state of the vessel. When we attend to the effect immediately produced on the vessel by the applica- tion of the ligature, we find that the internal and middle coats of the artery are either divided or entire, accoiding to the form and tightness of the ligature. Next, we find in every instance more or less inflammation excited. This must necessarily happen from the irritation produced by the liga- ture. It is marked by a red colour of the inside of the artery, which also becomes somewhat villous. Fibrin like red jelly is next effused, and immediately beyond this, and sometimes intermixed with it, we generally find a clot of blood extend- ing up to the next branch. °When the same consequences can be produced, though in different modes, by various efficient causes, it is evident that if more than one of such causes be brought simultaneously into operation, the result may not be the effect of one alone acting in its own peculiar way; but may proceed from the conjunct action of different causes, each acting in its own way, although one may predominate over the rest. The oblitera- tion of an artery may, therefore, be either a simple or a com- plex process, as one or more exciting causes, capable of pro-