l(i() inducing a new one, which is more easily removed than that D ' * , we wish to get quit of. Second, by exciting the action ot the absorbent system, and lessening the bulk of the part; but this we have seen to be questionable. In both views, the ope- ration, so far as internal remedies are concerned, must be gene- ral and equal over the whole system, unless where the part is from disease weaker, or more apt to be acted on than the rest. Mercury may be supposed to act in both ways; muriate of lime, diuretics, and laxatives, in the second way. Mhese last remedies, especially when of a tonic nature, are supposed also to act by invigorating the digestive functions, and thereby, by strengthening the system, enabling it to restore healthy action to the part. The utility of any, or all of these means, how- ever, is too often very questionable. I am not such a sceptic as to deride their employment; but I am not sanguine in every case. In the few instances of chronic tumours, in which mercury has appeared to do good, it has either been rubbed on a superficial tumour, and friction has become thereby entitled to as much of the credit as the medicine ; or, in inter- nal affections, it has rather appeared to excite a torpid, or rectify a disordered function, or excite the absorption of a fluid, than actually to remove a growth. Its chief service is when some degree of inflammation continues and keeps up the enlargement; and whilst I deny not its benefit in a few cases, on the principle I have explained, I also expect most from it when a slow and half extinguished inflammation still exists. I have already the more fully noticed its beneficial exhibition, that I may now more freely caution against its indiscriminate application. When the liver is affected in the way under review, and the structure changed, or bu k increased, mercury is immediately given; and often the on y argument urged in favour of the prescription is. custom, and the certainty that the next person consulted will have recourse to it. I am not at liberty to deny that mercury has done good in some cases of tumefied liver, but I will maintain that ?t is not of the extensive utility which many suppose; that it is chiefly to be relied on when inflammation actually exists, though in an obscure form, and where the tumefaction or