217 state of debility, or may precede, and then accompany it. In certain cases, the great pain attending the diseased action exhausts the part, and renders it unable to bear up under the inflammation. Third, A part may be weakened by the action being not only great, in comparison to its existing power, but also so dissimilar to the natural action of the part, that it almost incapacitates it for possessing vital energy. This is exempli- fied by the effect of the application of putrid matter to an inflamed or tender surface, the infiltration of urine amongst the cellular substance, and by certain local diseases of more obscure origin, such as carbuncle. To one or other of these general classes, simply or com- bined, may be referred, in so far as we are at present con- cerned, the different causes of debility, operating, however, lancler modifications, and through media, as numerous and various as diseases themselves. But in a matter of so much practical importance, it will be necessary to be a little more particular. T"° questions naturally offer themselves here. First, Is it a fact that one part of the body is more apt to be killed by inflammation than another? No person can dispute this, who observes how much more frequently gangrene terminates enteritis than pleurisy. Second, Is it a fact that inflammation, although it do not kill, is more difficult to be removed, and prevented from ending in suppuration, in one part than another. This is proved by the greater difficulty of curino- inflammation of the joints than of many other parts. When we inquire for an explanation of this fact, particularly the first, which more directly concerns us at present, we should be led to suppose, that one part of the body was naturally weaker, or possessed less vitality than another. It is very usual to speak of this, and assume it as a fact; but when we demand the proof, we find that it bears merely on one part eing less sensible to the action of ordinary agents than anothei. Do not all these parts carry on as briskly, as firmly, as peifectly, the usual processes, as the most sensible. Circu- ation, nutrition, absorption, the power of preservation and