131 substances, and by experience can foretell the changes, but in medicine we have no such battery. We are obliged to lay hold of the different parts of an action which can be discov- ered by their effects, and endeavour to counteract them piece- meal, by such agents as produce opposite effects. To attack a disease merely by attacking its symptoms, may appear to many to be but a shabby way of practising the noble art of physic, but it is in almost every instance the only way we have of making an attack at all. Fiom a consideration of the causes and phenomena of inflam- mation, of the state of the nerves and the blood-vessels, we should expect much benefit from bloodletting, and indeed those who have neglected this, have had little reason to congratulate themselves on their judgment. There are two modes of taking blood, topical and general; and if we confined our considera- tion merely to the immediate effect of the direct exciting cause on the pai t itself, we should say, that could we always obtain blood from the part itself, or its immediate neighbourhood, we should have no occasion for general depletion. But this is a mistake; for the inflamed organ very seldom remains as an insulated and independent part. It may be an effect of the state of the system, rather than a cause of general disease, or it may almost from the first be so associated with remote or general disorder, as to be no longer independent, or acted on by remedies merely local. The very change it has pos- sibly produced already, on the state of the origin of the nerves supplying it, may be quite sufficient to keep up the disease now in the part itself, in spite of all local remedies. Even when no general disease or fever manifests itself, this affection of the origins of the nerves may exist, and the disease bid defiance to topical applications; or the sensibility and delicacy of the organ may be such as to require general depletion, perhaps even to a great extent. This is sometimes the case in inflammation of the eye. We therefore should be alto- gether wrong in laying it down as a rule to open a vein only when the general system sympathized, and to trust to local depletion when the manifestation was only local. Besides, in many cases we cannot get blood from the part affected; and