88 flammation, which is only influenced by the state of the parts, liom all these circumstances, I conclude, that erysipelatous is not a genus distinct from phlegmonous inflammation, nor a disease essentially different from it, but that its peculiarities are dependant on the texture and function of the part; and if such inflammation do spread to other parts, and produce more injury than phlegmonous inflammation, originating in these parts, would have done, this arises from the morbid or exhausted state of the skin, exerting a sympathetic influence on the parts involved, and rendering them incapable of sus- taining disease. Another species of inflammation has been called oedematous, from the part swelling greatly, and assuming an oedematous appearance. This, however, is only a consequence of the lax cellular nature of the part affected, the best example being afforded by the prepuce. It is merely a phlegmon with more effusion of fibrin, than in many other parts, and the surface is seldom of a red colour at all deep. An oedematous part maj inflame superficially, or erysipelas may attack an oedematous limb, but surely there is nothing peculiar in the nature of such an inflammation. Gangrenous inflammation is dependant on the previous state of the parts, or the peculiarity and intensity of the exciting cause. It is not a distinct species. Inflammation has also been divided into the adhesive, sup- purative, and ulcerative. Now, with regard to the first. adhesion is a mere result of a certain degree of inflammatory action in parts which do not throw out a fluid capable of preventing it. The two last are different processes altogether, bearing no resemblance to inflammation farther than in the parts having an increased vascularity. With more advantage we may divide inflammation into the valida and debilis, the first affecting parts strong and healthy ; the second, parts which are weak or easily exhausted. The termination of these if not arrested is generally different, the one most frequently ending in suppuration, the other in gangrene. Farther, we may divide inflammation into the acute and