311 dangerous than those which do not depend on diathesis or general condition of the system, for the latter are in a greater degree independent, and grow and act by their own laws; we may kill them or cut them out, but we cannot cure them. On the other hand, the former may be cured if we know the specific remedy, an example of which we have in syphilis, ' which from the first, is not cut off from all obedience to the system, or regulation by it. Some tumours may at first be quite independent of the system, and yet by continuance may influence the system so as to produce effects which can- not be removed by destroying the original tumour. It is possible for a tumour, in consequence of the state induced in the nerves going to it, to affect the origins, or pretty exten- sively the medulla spinalis, &c., and thus excite, on various parts of the body, a similar action, leading to the formation of tumour; or, from some cause operating from the first, and extensively on the nervous system, we may have many tumours formed. The fact is certain, that some, without any evident cause, have a multitude of tumours scattered over the body. It is clear, that a mere graft or parasite unaffected by the system cannot be cured by general remedies, but only, if at all, by such as operate on itself. Even the simple tumour result- ing from, and for a time, kept up by, a chronic inflammation, is of this kind. Some tumours are capable of inflaming, and may suppurate or even ulcerate. Others do not inflame, or if they do, and even suppurate or form a fluid, never ulcer- ate. Many are supposed to inflame when they only enlarge, and the skin over them inflames and gives way, and then the tumour protrudes. But this is surely different from the pro- duction of a fungus, or an inflammatory or ulcerative action in the tumour itself. No attempt hitherto made to classify tumours has been successful; and the very term sarcoma, which has been applied to a great variety of growths, is objectionable, in as much as none of them, properly speaking me fleshy. Without venturing on any classification, which the present state of our knowledge does not enable me to do I shall notice some of the most common.