352 may deceive a speculatist, but the cancerous texture itself remains undiminished. Whilst stimulating diet would actu- ally accelerate the progress,—abstemiousness carried the length of debility, is found to be productive, though in another way, of the same result. Electricity can do only harm in the stage of cancer. In the preliminary state it may promote absorption, but is more likely to excite to mischief. Poultices of hemlock are always useless, and if applied hot, may be positively hurtful. Plasters of a slightly stimulating nature, or slices of the fat of a hog, particularly when acrid, have been also proposed. Blisters and issues near the spot, or at a greater distance, have been advised: they never can benefit, but may exasperate a genuine cancer. Nevertheless, in the preliminary stage of simple induration, they may, if very early employed, promote the absorption of the tumour when applied directly over it. In cases also at this stage, when pain rather than swelling is a prominent symptom, a small blister applied between the shoulders, and kept open for some time, has been of service. After an operation, it has been proposed in order to prevent a relapse, to make a small issue in the arm ; but in the efficacy of this I have not the smallest confidence. It lias been proposed to kill the part by freezing it, but even when it has been subjected more powerfully to destruc- tive causes than we can do by artificial agents, the disease has generally returned. Hospital gangrene has attacked it, or more extensive causes of mortification have operated, so that a tumour weighing several pounds has been separated, and yet the disease was not exterminated. No doubt the imagination can conceive, and even the judgment admit, the possibility of a rapid mortification effecting all that an opera- tion can, but still, does it do so half so well ? As for the proposal of destroying an open cancer by the application of caustic, I believe that it is so generally reprobated, that I need say nothing against it, far less need I dissuade horn such attempts being made on an incipient cancel. In the open state, or what has been called ulcerated cancer,