433 removed. Mr. Freer found, that by pressing the sides of an artery in a horse together for four hours with a tourniquet, the canal was obliterated. Mr. Crampton has also ascer- tained the effect of compressing the artery with a flat tape, merely to such a degree as to keep the sides in contact, and found that obliteration was effected. It would appear, how- ever, that the rapidity and perfection of the obstruction of the vessels are, within a certain range, proportioned to the degree of pressure, that is, to the degree of irritation or excite- ment. Compression may, therefore, be so applied as to obli- terate a vessel, long before a ligature tied around that vessel could be spontaneously detached. Merely tying a vessel, however tightly, with a single ligature, and then immediately removing that ligature, we have seen, is not sufficient to pro- duce obliteration. But if the ligature be allowed to remain for some hours, and then be removed, obliteration is effected. The exact time at which a ligature may be safely removed from a divided vessel, or when complete obliteration shall have taken place at the tied spot of a trunk going to an aneurismal tumour, may be expected to vary, according to the state of the part or of the constitution, as well as the degree of local irritation or excitement. The experiments of Mr. Travers would lead to the conclusion, that if a ligature be applied for six hours, and then removed from an undivided vessel, such changes are commenced as shall end within other six hours, in complete obliteration of the artery; of course, the conti- nuance of the ligature for twelve hours from the date of its application, is still more to be depended upon. Mr. Cramp- ton, from his own experiments, concludes that permanent obliteration may be effected in a period not exceeding twenty- four hours. Scarpa, however, does not propose, that in the human subject the ligature should be removed within the third or fourth day. My own experiments would lead to a conclusion, that much depends on the state of the system. If a dog, for instance, were not in good health, or had different vessels tied within a day or two of each other, obliteration was long of taking place; and I am much disposed to press the fact of the connexion of the state of the health, and the efficiency of 2 v