81 is not rapidly produced, whilst the skin, particularly if thin, as in the frog, becomes speedily and highly injected. If the excitement be strong, and continued, the muscle becomes red in the extent to which it is inflamed. The change of colour is well seen in the thigh of a rabbit, whose muscles are very pale. If we expose part of these, and apply lint wet with solution of salt, we find, on examining them two days after- wards, that they have, to a greater or less depth, acquired as deep a hue as the muscles of a sheep. We can see no general extravasation of blood, nor can we even by a good glass determine the colour to arise from multiplicity of vessels. The whole texture and each fibre seems to be minutely imbued with red blood. Here and there we see striae, but when the muscle is sliced thin, and examined by the micro- scope, we find, that although these in different places are really extravasations, yet in others we can ascertain that they are formed by insulated portions of blood in dilated vessels. A greater number of vessels are seen on the surface, and dis- covered in the substance of the muscle, but its depth of colour cannot be traced by the eye, aided by a microscope, to depend on these. The diaphragm of a rabbit being very thin, may be employed to exhibit the appearance of inflammation; but here we find, in addition, many superficial and considerable vessels running in the peritoneal coat and pleura, whilst by the glass we see opaque parallel lines quite uninjected, which are the tendinous portions. If inflammation of any muscle proceed, and become both high and universal in the muscle, it is rendered altogether redder, more vascular, and its fibres more separated by albumenous and fibrinous fluid, or blood itself, whilst the fibres are altered, rendered softer, and more easily torn, less contractile, and more like gelatinous fibrin, or injected cellular substance; and then, if mortification do not take place, the disease proceeds to suppuration, not around the muscle, which is common in cellular inflammation, but within it, either in small and scattered abscesses, or when more exten- sive and rapid, in the form of general infiltration. The fibrinous substance is changed in colour, becoming of a yellowish red tinge, or sometimes, when there has been venous extravasa- G