361 commended by Mr. Justamond, made by melting in a cru- cible, two parts of sulphuret of antimony and one ol white oxide of arsenic. The compound is to be reduced to a fine powder, and, if well prepared, ought then to be of a dark blue colour. He advised, when it was too strong, to mix it with powdered opium, but it is just as easy to sprinkle the soi’e more thinly with the powder. The sore is to be covered completely, but not at first very deeply, until we ascertain the effects with the powder. If any have gone on the sur- rounding skin it is to be carefully wiped off. A bit of lint, spread with simple ointment, is then to be applied as a defence. Very soon, more or less smarting, or even pain, is produced. A considerable discharge of serous fluid takes place, but this soon ceases. On examining the part next day it is found covered with a black slough, which is detached with more or less celerity. When it falls, the sore sometimes appears clean, and disposed to granulate. If so, we dress it merely with simple ointment, and, if next day it look still better, we continue the same till it cicatrize. But, if the sore be not at all, or only partially improved, we must make repeated applications of the powder, until we completely destroy the diseased surface. If the preparation, when applied in sufficient quantity, do not produce a complete slough, we may be sure that it has been too long exposed to the fire, so as to destroy much of the arsenic. In such circumstances, if a better preparation cannot be procured, I have known a small proportion of alkaline caustic added with success ; or we may apply a salve, made by mixing half a drachm of white arsenic with an ounce of simple ointment, or use nitrate of copper, or muriate of antimony, in a state of deliquescence ; but arsenic produces an eschar with less inflammation of the surrounding parts than most other caustics. Another form of arsenic, much recommended, is a solution of a grain of arseniate of potash in an ounce of water, applied as a lotion to the part by means of little bits of lint. This, however, is by no means equal to the powder. It may, how- ever, in extensive sores, be tried in the first instance. I may say the same of a draclnn of nitrate of silver dissolved in