53 4 the very first gave no inconvenience; but presently, when, from some cause or other, undue or irregular action has taken place in this new organization, the nerve has become involved in the action, as well as identified with the organization or tumour. The same circumstance may take place, by an impli- cation of the nerve in the cicatrix, which becomes tender, inflames, and produces severe effects on the nerve which is connected with it; or, perhaps, in some cases we may reverse the statement, and say, that the injured nerve becoming inflamed, brings the cicatrix into a participation with it. This acute inflammation, marked by the symptoms detailed, if not subdued, may either end in ulceration of the nerve, or chronic inflammation. The first is rare, if we take it in the strict sense. Suppuration is oftener met with, and pus may be found in the substance of the nerve, or the coi'd may be par- tially, or even completely absorbed, and the surfaces in a state of suppuration. This state is always attended with high sensibility and great pain. Chronic inflammation, is a more frequent termination, and is productive of much pain, aggra- vated, as in the acute stage, by pressure. The nerve on inspec- tion is found to be enlarged, and more vascular, and covered, perhaps, with a coating of fatty looking substance, but whether this be fibrin or albumen has not been determined by any experiment. When we know, from the great pain immedi- ately produced, by the prickling, or numbness of the extremity, that a nerve has been punctured or injured, we must take the greatest care to promote adhesion, by laying and preserving the parts in absolute contact, relaxing the limb so as not to put the nerve on the stretch, and enjoining a state of perfect rest of the member. We thus bid fair to prevent inflamma- tion. If we fail, and inflammation do take place, we ought immediately to use means for checking it. If the pulse or system be affected, or even if not, if the local swelling be con- siderable, we should detract blood from a vein, and then appty leeches. If venesection be not required, a greater or smaller number of leeches should at once be applied on the spot. No benefit is to be expected from diffusing them over the pained parts of the extremity, if the pain be evidently merely