212 Purgatives form another class of remedies, and as there is scarcely an instance of a burn which does not more or less disorder the chylopoietic viscera, these medicines are highly proper. 1 hey are, however, to be prescribed more for obviating this effect of the accident, than for operating on the part itself, except in so far as they may remove a condition, which by its reaction on, or sympathy with the injury, might render that more intractable. Debilitating evacuations are to be avoided, but mild purgatives are proper. Diaphoretics have also been praised, but these have little effect, unless they act also in some other %vay, as, for example, Dover’s powder, which acts as an anodyne, and sometimes has that effect aided by its diaphoretic tendency, or the bad effect of opium mitigated thereby. Opiates are more generally useful, and when there is much pain or restlessness, or irritation, can seldom be dispensed with. The dose must be so great as to procure an abatement of the sensibility, and yet not such as to cause stupefaction. Nothing is more to be dreaded than the continuance of great pain, particularly if complicated with restlessness. In such circumstances, even a drachm of laudanum has been given with a happy effect. It has been said that pain is a good symptom, and should not be abated by opium; but it is only good inas- much as it shows that a worse state, namely, absolute insensi- bility, does not exist. In an extensive burn, wliere the parts are not insensible from mere torrifaction, it is less dangerous to find the patient sensible to suffering, than nearly uncon- scious. This is a negative benefit, for pain itself is never useful. Its abatement, if not accompanied with stupor or torpor of mind, is to be desired. Opiates must be repeated as often as requisite, and their constipating effects obviated. It is not necessary to say, that in cases accompanied with stupor they add to the evil, and must be avoided. In the first or inflammatory stage, the diet must be mild, and the drink bland. Vegetables, fruit, whey, lemonade, soda water, &c. may be given freely, as the patient desires. In the second stage, where there is suppuration, and perhaps extensive ulceration, and profuse discharge, the strength must