525 great cause to regret this, in one point of view, for its treat- ment, both topical and general, is sufficiently indicated for all practical purposes, and consists in the employment of the usual means for allaying inflammation. After laceration, gunshot wounds, or even regular operations, the tract of the artery may inflame, and become painful, and the surrounding parts be more or less involved; but in such cases we must, independent of all conjecture, proceed on general principles. More general inflammation of the artery may be produced even by causes acting very locally, as, for example, the liga- ture; or the arteries may be inflamed by the extension of disease from an inflamed organ, as, for instance, the lungs, or they may be more directly inflamed by the operation of cold on the surface of the body, which, in particular cases, may act on them rather than on the muscles or other parts. Extensive arteritis is not a common disease ; for more fre- quently the inflammation is confined to the larger trunks, par- ticularly the aorta. This vessel, as well as other large arteries, is often found in dissecting rooms to have its inner surface of a deep scarlet colour, especially if the thorax have been opened, or air admitted freely into the cavity of the arteries for some days. This is no mark of the previous existence of inflammation, for it arises from a mere tinge of blood. The coats of the artery are found to be sound, the internal coat is not in any degree softened or thickened, nor is there the slightest approach to effusion of fibrin. The middle coat is healthy, and the outer one quite free from that fleshy, injected, and inflamed appearance which I have already described. The symptoms of this more dangerous and extensive form must be obscure. If the disease arise from propagation of inflammation from other parts, must not the symptoms of that previous inflammation, of the lungs, for instance, render those of the arterial inflammation less distinct; and can we certainly say whether the arch of the aorta, or its descending portion, or the pulmonary arteries, or the pleura, be the direct seat of the disease ? Let us, on the other hand, take the abdo- minal aorta for an example, and consider the parts which are