263 microscope. They are formed faster if exposed to the air, than if that be excluded. Mucous secretions may resemble pus in colour, but differ in containing small flakes, but no globules. A solution of muriate of ammonia thickens, or as it has been said, coagulates pus, but does not inspissate mucous, or muco-purulent fluid. Chemists have analyzed pus, and given an account of its component parts, and to them this belongs, for as yet little practical utility has resulted from their labours. I therefore forbear entering farther into this detail. I may merely mention, that if we mix pus with boiling water, it becomes coagulated into little portions, like milk curdled in a posset. It we stir this mixture, we form a milky or yellowish fluid, which, on being left to rest, soon separates, a white magma falling to. the bottom. If, on the other hand, we pour boiling water on that mixture of pus and mucus expectorated in disease of the windpipe, we find that it consists of two parts, one more ropy and paler, almost like the mucus of the nose, another whiter or yellow, but floccu- lent, or in masses, which are involved in the other kind. This always sinks to the bottom unless kept up by froth. If the expectoration be shaken in water, it appears in nodules. Too much importance has, however, been attached to a criterion, whereby pus could be distinguished from morbid mucus, for we ought rather to look to the symptoms of the complaint. 1 he secretion from every surface is not exactly the same, and the discharge is often very different even to the eye. In some, it is of a uniform cream-like appearance, and possessed, when warm, of a peculiar smell. It is then called laudable pus. It has ripened in a praiseworthy manner. In others, it is curdy and unequal in its consistence, or viscid and ropy, or thin and almost serous. It is evident that these fluids, although furnished by suppurating or secreting surfaces, are not, properly speaking, pus, or the secretion yielded in the suppuration of a part otherwise healthy. Pus is formed more speedily by acting on some textures than on others. If a mucous membrane be excited strongly, pus is formed within five hours, and even in so short a space as half an hour, a few globules have been detected in the secretion. The skin does