not form pus till 20 hours after the excitement, and other textures may require somewhat longer. We have seen then, in general, what suppuration is, and also the character of the fluid secreted, but we must attend a little more closely to the nature of the process. If we excite in a slight degree a mucous membrane, the discharge is increased without being perceptibly altered in its quality. If we carry the excitement farther, and continue it longer, the secretion is altered, and converted, either into muco- purulent matter or into pus. Were we then to confine our attention to this fact alone, we should say that pus was an unnatural secretion from a mucous membrane, and would pro- ceed to ascertain, if we could, how a high excitation of the part should so much change the qualities of the secretion. Yet, even in this limited view of the subject, we should find it difficult to afford an explanation, and must for the present remain satisfied w'ith a knowledge of the fact. But in this o state of speculative ignorance, I feel confident in the assertion, which I make from practical observation, that this secretion may be produced either by stimuli acting directly on the secreting surface, or by acting on the origin of the nerves which supply that surface. An excitement of the origin of those nerves which supply the trachea may produce secretion from its surface just as readily as the direct application of causes productive of bronchitic inflammation. I have formerly noticed a similar agency in the production of inflammation. Farther observation will extend our view of suppuration, for we next find that serous membranes, if irritated slightly throw out an increased quantity of serum, or if more power- fully excited they inflame, and if they do not adhere, secrete pus. Next we find that, if the cuticle be removed by means of a blister, the skin secretes first serum and then pus. If we strongly excite the cellular substance, the vessels which formerly secreted interstitial fluid, or sebaceous matter, will come to secrete either an increased quantity of serum con- taining also some lymph, or pus, according to the extent of the excitation. From certain local irritations then, we may have the leg swollen and rendered tense by a kind of serous effu-