280 not of a stimulating nature. Ihe other, is to endeavour to OcSen, 01 palliate particular parts of the action, by keeping t e body, for example, cool, or even sponging the surface with cold water, when the skin is dry and hot. During the sweating stage we cannot carry this plan to the same extent, but still we keep the patient as cool as can be done without producing chilness. By this plan conjoined, (if the situation of the pait will admit of it,) with local remedies, we may support the strength until nature effect a cure of the diseased pait, and then the hectic subsides as a matter of course. If this cannot be effected, still the simple plan proposed will protiact existence. Stimulants are very suspicious in their effects, and they are as likely to increase the fever as to aug- ment the strength. With regard to the local treatment, it can only consist in the application of moderate and uniform ptesstue, when necessary; in procuring by proper openings, a fi ee evacuation of matter, when that can promote recovery; in laying open sinuses, or sometimes injecting stimulating fluids, or in deeper parts which we dare not, or cannot touch, by forming an external issue. There is another state which I have noticed as attendant on suppuration, namely that of irritation. I can only with regard to it say, that the same general plan must be pursued; but tonics conjoined with anodynes, are more serviceable here than in hectic, and the case altogether is somewhat more favourable. When the two states, however, are combined, the prognosis is more unfavour- able, unless we find that anodynes readily subdue the irritation. There is another case which I have also noticed, namely, a combination of one, or both of these disorders, with the i uflammatoi y action, or a modification of inflammatory^ fever by the secretory action of the local organ. This is most frequently met with in consequence of opening chronic abscesses or encysted tumours, and may prove fatal even in a few hours. It is better, by caution in opening such tumours, to prevent this dreadful disorder, than to be placed under the necessity of meeting with it. I know of no treatment that is likely to control it. Bloodletting, unless at the very com- mencement of the attack, is out of the question; and even