86 monous and erysipelatous. The first is also styled by some healthy or adhesive inflammation. It is attended with effusion of fibrin or coagulable lymph, is comparatively circumscribed, and when it terminates in abscess the pus is contained in a distinct cavity. The general characters of this inflammation have been given when describing a phlegmon. The second is said to be an unhealthy inflammation, and has been, in its general character, described when speaking of inflammation of the skin. It is marked by superficial redness, a greater disposition to spread and involve the surrounding skin, whence it derives its name, the serous or albumenous depositions in place of fibrin, its inferior tendency to suppuration, or the infiltration of the pus, when it does suppurate, into the cellular substance, and a total want of all disposition to adhesion. The following remarks may be of some use on this subject:— 1. It is notorious that the same exciting cause applied to different parts will produce different degrees and modifications of inflammation. Heat or irritants applied to the skin, to the cellular substance, to the villous coat of the intestine, to the liver, &c. will produce in all of these a variation of effect, according to the difference of structure and function. 2. Cutaneous or erythematic inflammation often extends deeper, and causes inflammation of the subjacent cellular sub- stance, ending in circumscribed abscess. Inflammation of the mucous membrane of the tonsil often extends to the tissue below, and produces suppuration or quinsey. 3. Inflammation of the subcutaneous parts often does, on the other hand, produce cutaneous or superficial inflamma- tion or redness, in no respect differing in appearance from erythema; and when the conjunctiva is inflamed by an irritating substance, or in consequence of scarlatina, measles, or erysipelas of the face or eyelids, that membrane exhibits so exactly the same character, that not all the ingenuity of an oculist of full blood, who starts not at a trifle in the way of nomenclature and subdivision, can point out to a candid student the distinction. 4. The skin when inflamed is prone to effusion of serum