98 produce a slow circulation, the heart beating sometimes not more than thirty times in a minute, whilst any excitement of these cause an opposite state; and in no case have we the pulse more rapid than in inflammation, or even simple excitement of the spinal cord. Next, without entering into the minute theory of animal heat, I may remark, that mere rapidity of cir- culation cannot explain increased evolution, for we have often much heat of the surface when the pulse is only moderately, perhaps not at all accelerated, and coldness when it is very frequent. We must, thei'efore, independently of all experi- ments, come to the conclusion, that nervous action has much influence on the extrication of heat. The two prominent attendants on fever, however, are mere symptoms indicative of excitement of those nerves which influence them; and, accordingly, we may say that fever is an excitement of the medulla oblongata and spinalis, with or without the more accidental one of the brain. But various distant and. local causes may produce fever, and these operate sympathetically on the origin of the nerves, or by communicating excitation to the medulla; and as the nature of the local disorder is, so is that of the communicated excitement or irritation, and thus the state of the origin is modified thereby. Fever, there- fore, although a generic term, is divisible into numerous species and varieties, according to the nature of the exciting cause; and, whilst we recognise the general characters ol the disease, such as heat and frequency of the pulse, we find it diffi- cult to detect the minuter shades, and sometimes neglect even the more evident distinctions, from inattention to then impoit- ance. This is less likely to continue to be the case, as we begin to attach more value to distinctive characters; and one O , . of the first services to be performed to a nosologist, is to con- vince him that there is no such thing in one respect as a simple fever, for all preternatural action constituting fever must depend on the operation of agents not natural in then- kind or degree, and therefore not productive of mere simple excitation. If simple excitation ever exist, it must be impos- sible to distinguish it; and we have as much reason to say that it is a phantom as a reality. No two excitements aie