102 have seen in some affections of the spine, where a prominent symptom was a sense of great coldness referred to the bones. In the cold stage of a fever, not merely the nerves of sensa- tion are affected, but sometimes those connected with motion; and we have in different instances a gradation from a slight shiver to a general convulsive agitation. The same cause which produces this state may also occasion aching pain in different parts of the body, or sense of indescribable tiredness or languor. A feeling of cold, with or without diminution of temperature, also frequently attends derangement of the stomachic nerves, and that although no sickness be produced. It is greater if sickness occur, and in that case is at least lessened after vomiting. This is not necessarily followed either by increased temperature or sensation, for it is a mere nervous affection. It may also follow a wound or operation, from the mere change or novelty in the state of the organ and its nerves, especially if it be sensible, and a vital organ. It does not certainly indicate the commencement of inflam- mation, nor usher in fever, after lithotomy, &c. particularly if it appear very early, and there be no other bad symptom. But in elderly and exhausted people it is often followed by a state, in which the system never properly recruits, but sinks daily. It is even possible for death to take place within a few hours, without one effort to rally. This sometimes hap- pens also in very susceptible habits, or in children; and cor- dials prudently exhibited are of signal service. Another cir- cumstance connected with the cold stage is, that if the system be very susceptible, the mere exposure of part of the body to cold brings on a general sensation of cold, and sometimes causes rigor or shivering. This is well seen in the puerperal state, and during lactation. Farther, if a person have form- erly had intermittent fever, or been just recovering from a continued fever, the production of the sensation of cold so acts on the nervous system as often to renew the disease. The state of the nerves giving rise to the sensation of cold, after the temperature has increased, cannot be that of mere diminution of sensibility, for the susceptibility of other sensations is not lessened.