309 habitudes of a tumour, more than we can in regard to those of a polypus or a cuttle fish. We can only ascertain them by experience; for a knowledge of the physiology of the body in which the tumour is formed, can give no information respect- ing the physiology of the tumour. It may indeed confirm us in our opinion respecting the influence of the one upon the other, but even in this respect, speculation must be always corrected by actual observation. If I be correct in this view of the matter, it will afford but a melancholy prospect of a cure. For, if such tumours pos- sess a new organization, and be considered as grafts, of a distinct and often independent nature, on the body, we can have little , t least, in procuring their absorption; and in point of fact, we do find that even our most active applications seldom diminish their size. We may from the sympathy which may exist between them and the body, often by stimulants accelerate their progress; but that is a different view of the matter. In that stage of a tumour, produced by a blow, or any other exciting cause of inflammation, when it is passing from a more acute to a chronic stage, when it is not terminating by resolution, but is about to settle down into that state neither healthy nor inflammatory, we may frequently by active means restore the health of the part. Perhaps in no instance, when the texture of the part continues still to be the simple inflammatory texture, although the action have become chronic, need we despair. As we cannot always by external marks say that the texture has in such cases altered, we ought invariably to try the means for removing the slow inflammatory action which remains. It is in this way chiefly that we promote absorption and diminish the tumour. It is not by exciting the lymphatics, but by quenching the unex- tinguished inflammation which may have endured for weeks or months. Leeches are highly useful in this view, but if they do good, they do so soon and progressively. Mercury, bv changing the action or destroying it, is also of service ; and it is worthy of observation, that in many cases of mini- fied testicle, accompanied with hydrocele, this remedy has a speedy influence; but, like leeching, it does good speedily if