13 would expect that strong sensation at the extremities of the nerve, affecting the origin, should produce sensation there, but merely influence by increase or diminution, the state of that origin, on which sensation depends. If an wound or injury be inflicted on a weak or broken down system, the person may die by this re-action or reciprocal influence. In this state of the system, the wound is incapable of healing properly. It remains for a day or two without suppurating, but the system does not seem to suffer materially. Then the wound looks ill, and becomes foul or sloughy, and this state originally dependant on that of the system reacts on it; the general health rapidly is impaired, and death soon follows. The bad state of a very small wound, may in a susceptible habit, not primarily diseased, induce a dangerous state of the system, anti the most serious consequences may follow from an apparent trifle. Agents produce their immediate or local effect, with dif- ferent degrees of rapidity, according to circumstances. They may, and often do influence, the moment they are applied, so that although no perceptible change be produced, yet it has begun, and cannot be prevented by the removal or destruction of the agent, unless we also killed or destroyed the surface acted on. They may also be more slow, so that if removed, no effect shall take place. The constitutional or more general effect, is not always immediately manifested, and is often preceded by phenomena, simply resulting from interference with the due performance of the natural or healthy action of the nervous system, and therefore met with preceding very different diseases. They may be called the symptoms proper to the stage of forma- tion of die new action, and consist of coldness, languor, sickness, &c. The interval between the application of the local cause, and the appearance of those phenomena, proper to the period ol formation, as well as those peculiar to the constitutional disease itself, varies in different cases, but with regard to some agents, as for example, certain morbid poisons, and conta- gions, it is pretty uniform, as we see in small-pox, measles,