292 by rest it so far recovers through the night; next day it is again excited, and again at night relieved. Thus matters go on until the character of the sore be totally changed. The repeated irritations, after having wrought much mischief, gradually cease to have any other effect than that of retaining the part in the condition to which they have brought it. We find the neighbouring cellular substance hard and swollen, the greatest pait of the limb perhaps enlarged, and covered not with skin and cellular substance, but with a diseased, indurated integument, sometimes polished like a pebble, sometimes rough and scaly. The sore is no longer an ulcer; it is indeed called an indolent ulcer; and indolent enough it is in the process of healing. It is a suppurating surface, with hard, white, and sometimes retorted edges. The surface itself exhibits no distinct granulation ; its aspect varies greatly; sometimes it is a shining or glossy surface, without any acumi- nations, and discharging copiously a fluid like serum ; at other times it has a fibrous appearance like petrified wood, with a similar discharge ; or it is covered with a layer of lymph adher- ing firmly to it. Not unfrequently such sores are complicated with a varicose state of the veins, sometimes produced by, oftener perhaps productive of, this kind of chronic sore. If I be right then, the chronic, or indolent ulcer, as it has been incorrectly called, is rarely the consequence of a healthy ulcer, sinking gradually into a state of languor, but is almost always the invariable consequence of previous excitement produced by imprudent exercise, by retarded venous circulation, conse« quent sometimes on merely keeping the legs in a dependant position, by intemperance, or by other causes influencing the part, through the medium of the constitution; and, when by any of these causes the ulcer is once disordered in its action, or the ulcerative exchanged for the suppurative action, we soon find that the organization of the surrounding parts comes to be more or less altered, with all the attendant train of evils thereupon ; and at length we may say that we have a suppurating sore situated on a texture altogether novel. With regard to the management of an ulcer in its excited state, there can be very little difference of opinion. We