331 once distinguish the disease from cancer. The skin for a little way around the projections is inflamed, perhaps slightly excoriated, the discharge increases, and becomes foetid, pei’haps haemorrhage becomes more frequent, the pain increases, the health suffers greatly, the patient wasting away, till worn out by suffering and increased debility, life be destroyed. If the disease be long protracted, the lymphatic glands swell greatly, and assume the appearance of the original tumour. By dissection, the tumour is found to be made up of various compartments of different sizes and shapes, formed by the intersections of a membranous substance. The smaller com- partments, which we suppose to be those of most recent formation, are filled with grayish, soft substance, at first sight resembling the foetal brain, but on more minute examination it seems of a more cellular or organized texture. The larger, or what may be considered the more advanced compartments, contain a bloody substance, sometimes fluid, sometimes solid like coagulum, or intermixed with brainular albumenous substance, so as to give such portions of the section a mottled appearance like jasper. At those parts where the tumour felt externally hard, the indurations are found to proceed from a thickening of the intersections. The muscles in the vicinity become converted into a substance like liver, and the bones become soft and spongy. There is no part of the body exempt from attack of this disease, and it may often, but not always, be traced to external violence. The first case which I ever saw of it was consequent to a bruise; but it is most frequently met with in the female breast, the uterus, the testicle, the eye, &c. In the brain I have met with it, forming numerous tumours of various sizes, and resembling jasper. From the account I have given of the complaint, there can be no difficulty in recognizing it, and its appeai’ance is much the same in every organ. Even the eye, which is frequently affected with it, acquires the same texture. The optic nerve loses its colour, and becomes black like boiled or grumous blood. This affection of the eye begins, as in other parts of the body, with a tense swelling, a speedy alteration of all the internal parts, an opacity of the cornea, and a livid redness of