184< there should no cold or repellent application be made, as there is danger thereby of transferring inflammation to the brain or its coverings. Some soft defence is all that is required, such as a little cotton wool. The vesications, when they burst, may be slightly dusted with chalk or flour, and if the eyelids be affected, and their glands discharge muco-purulent matter, that should be gently washed away as often as necessary. When the constitution is not impaired by intemperance or other causes, but more especially in what is called the phleg- monoid species, blood should be taken away, and, in all, the bowels should be at first freely opened, and afterwards kept strictly regular. We ought not, however, to push the purging in any instance, far less in broken habits, to a great degree, but should act rather on the principle of exciting a nature, action, and restoring a healthy function, than on that oi pro- ducing evacuation. Bile, when it is present, 01 othei iuita. ing or bad excrementitious matter, must assuredly be removec; but the indiscriminate and liberal use of cathartics, more espe- cially the depressing one of antimony, I can by no means approve of. It is well to vary the prescription; calomel, jalap, senna, the neutral salts, colocynth, &c. may be given in moderate doses separately or combined. In this, as well as in other cases of erythema, independent of mechanical injury, it sometimes happens that suppuration takes place, and spreads extensively under the scalp. W herever matter forms, it ought to be evacuated by a dependant open- ing and if the parts will bear it, a bandage should be applied, so°as to prevent the matter from spreading. If this diffusion have taken place, the scalp is found to be extensively separated from the cranium, and from lodgment of matter it shakes under the touch of the finger. The probe discovers the bone bare, and in some places, perhaps rough. Proper counter-openings ouo-ht to be made, and if portions of the tendon of the occipito- frontalis muscle be found to be destroyed, forming sloughs like macerated parchment, they are to be cautiously extracted. From the irritation or absorption of matter, the glands about the throat swell and suppurate, so that in bad cases, the scalp undermined, openings forth, or require to be made over is