288 ous or well conditioned ulcer. We know of nothing which lias the positive property of promoting a cure; we know of many tilings which may retard it, and common sense will teach us to avoid these. The only use of a surgeon, if he possess that property, in the management of a healthy ulcer, is to adopt those simple defences which have been pointed out for enabling the natural process to go on. Internal remedies, and particular forms of diet, are alike useless, unless with the same view of removing where they exist, or preventing where they are threatened, those conditions which might act inju- riously on the ulcer. When an ulcer is situated on the leg, it is an important question, whether it require rest for its cure, and very contradictory answers have been given, professedly from the source of experience. All, however, must agree in this, that if the patient walk with such dressing as may easily be displaced, and the ulcer be ruffled, it cannot heal. If the dressing be properly sustained by a well applied roller, and the circulation be active, and the health good, the patient may walk moderately. It has even been supposed, that it was neces- sary, for the support of his general health, that a good deal of exercise should be taken, but this theory must be acted on with much circumspection. From the simple fact, that in a healthy system, an ulcer, if the part be otherwise sound, heals soon and progressively, we should infer, when it does not heal, but, on the contrary, becomes in every respect unhealthy, that either the state of the system, or of some organ, is bad, or the treatment is injurious. The influence of an ulcer on a susceptible habit, on the one hand, in affecting the health or the action of some organs, and on the other, the marked effect of deviation in the action of the remote parts, as, for instance, the viscera, or of a general disorder of the system, on the ulcer, ought at once to make us, even in the most trifling and best conditioned sore, as well as in extensive and unhealthy or intractable sores, most attentive to the general health, to the support and encouragement of those functions and parts of the natural action of the system which are still well performed, and the rectification of those which are not. We thus pre- vent a healthy ulcer from becoming a bad one, and gradually