387 distinctness, noticed the process itself in the consideration of wounds, and some, as we shall immediately see, pushed the practice very far. They consider it as accomplished by the effusion of the nutritions part of the blood, by which they mean the lymph. This is quite analogous to Mr. Hunter’s opinion; and although they deprecated the accession of inflammation, it does not appear that they had any objection, in point of fact, to what Mr. Hunter calls adhesive inflamma- tion. For it was an axiom derived from Hippocrates, that it was a bad sign if a wound swelled much, but still worse if it did not swell at all. They differed, however, from Mr. Hunter in their opinion of the utility of coagulated blood, which Le Dran very unceremoniously says, is nothing better than an extraneous substance. One and all of them were clear for removing it, and I think they were right. Colbatch comes as near the truth as any of the writers; for he says, there is no difference in the union of a wound, and the filling up of the natural void made by transpiration (absorption), both being effected by the nutritious juice. Although no great attention was paid to the theory, and certainly not to the practice of adhesion, still we find, at vari- ous times, such proposals made, as do testify great confi- dence in the powers of nature. At a very early period, for instance, attempts were made to supply deficiencies, either natural, or consequent to disease, by first making the edges of the deficient part raw, and then dissecting from the neigh- bouring skin, a flap which was still allowed to adhere to it, however, by a neck. This flap being twisted round, had its edges applied to those of the divided part, which had previ-r ously been made raw, and the junction was maintained by sutures and plasters. Thus, for example, the loss of part of the under lip was supplied by a flap which was raised from the chin, and twisted round, so that its exterior surface was still outermost. An allusion to this may evidently be found in the ninth chapter of the seventh book of Celsus. It was afterwards described in the end of the thirteenth century by Lanfranc, and more particularly, towards the middle of the fifteenth, by Branca. It seems afterwards to have been pro-