141 the extent and rapidity of the danger from inflammation of the part, will be the evil resulting from carrying evacuation beyond the due limits. In pleurisy, we may go a step too far with much more impunity, than in enteritis. But in old and delicate people the same result takes place; perhaps less evacu- ation could not have saved them, for I have tried both plans. So long as we mitigate the symptoms, we are in general safe in repeating the evacuation on every exacerbation. In the commencement we bleed, if need be, at short intervals, and in such quantity at a time, as gives relief. But as the disease advances, we must not only be more sparing in the quantity, but also more scrupulous as to the intervals; nor are we to repeat an evacuation, if the last bleeding have either produced no relief, or only a momentary abatement of the symptoms, for then we only sink the patient. I would proceed to give more specific rules, did I not know that this would only add to the risk of their being misapplied; and that he who is not able to profit by a general rule or principle, is still less to be trusted with a special order, unless that also be given at the moment for a special case. So far as it can be done, it will be attempted in considering particular accidents and diseases. In determining on the propriety of pushing the lancet * farther, we must not be guided by one symptom alone, but by all. 1 he pulse is often most attended to, and yet in many circumstances it is least to be trusted. After copious evacua- tion, the pulse must, from causes I have noticed, become fre- quent; and very often without any inflammation, it becomes sharp, and the skin is hot. If then we attended to the fre- quency of the pulse alone, and its sharpness, as it has been called, we should be attempting to cure by bleeding, that very state which bleeding had produced. I fear many young practitioners fall into this error, and keep up by depletion an unnatural and excited state of the system, which should otherwise have soon subsided. This not only may directly injure the inflamed part, but, by weakening the system unnecessarily, it diminishes the power of recovery, or lays the foundation of other diseases. The state produced by this