455 On examining the capillaries, we often see an uninterrupted or uniform stream of globules, in other cases, particularly if the capillary motion be about to cease, the stream for a short time flows in jerks or pulsations, and even in health, or with- out the application of any injuring cause to the web, the jerks are distinct, but at once are checked by pressure on the trunk of the artery, or around the limb. If we place the finger on the face of an artery in a natural state, we feel it apparently rise or impinge against the finger, and immediately recede, or seem to fall down, so that it is in a manner lost by the finger. These states are alternate, and constitute the pulse. It might be sup- posed that the stroke was given by the artery really bounding forward by being elongated, and this is strengthened by looking at the carotids in a slender girl, for they seem to project, and raise the skin before them. But if we press on the side of a large artery, or take it laterally between the finger and thumb, we feel the stroke or pulse as distinctly as by pressing on its face, and the artery seems to strike out on both sides, as well as forward. We should, therefore, say that the pulsation depended on the artery being distended by more blood. In very emaciated persons, particularly after tapping for ascites, when the abdominal parietes are lax, the aorta can be readily felt, and these circumstances observed. The pulsation is clearly dependant on the increased quantity of blood which the tube receives. If we cut across a large artery, and have only a small external wound, false aneurism forms, which pulsates strongly, not by the change of length of the artery, for it is divided, and also, in the thigh, firmly bound down by the aponeurosis extending from the vastus and triceps. The pulsation doubtless is produced, by the cavity which contains the effused blood, receiving at each pulsation a little blood, or having the quantity already contained, impinged on, by the blood from the upper orifice escaping, or endeavouring to escape. So long as the sac or cavity is at all dilatable, and any blood can pass from the orifice into the sac, and get out again from it, this cause must occasion pulsation. It is not even necessary that the small quantity of blood emitted from the upper orifice should get out by the under one. If it