4 35 during different modes of obstruction, are brought into activity. In the case of ligature it is certainly complex. The mere division of the internal coat, by the application of a ligature, is not sufficient; neither is the induction of inflammation effec- tive, for we have cases of both intense and extensive arteritis without perfect obliteration. The complete obstruction of the circulation, either by a coagulum, or by a flat ligature, is, after a length of time, effected; but my experiments with the flat ligature or tape do not lead me to expect rapid oblitera- tion ; and assuredly, if the artery be either unsound, or the constitution weak, we are more likely to produce inflamma- tion and suppuration of the external coats of the artery than obliteration of the tube; and, accordingly, when the tape was removed, even after the lapse of four days, I have found the artery quite pervious. The perfect or extreme contraction of the tube by the entire removal of a distending cause, leads also to obliteration. But this is seldom met with far beyond the mouth, for higher, a coagulum often fills the vessel, which, therefore, although it may be diminished, cannot be fully contracted. The mere apposition of the sides, either with or without division of the internal coat, is not in general suffi- cient to cause adhesion and obliteration, unless the artery, for some way above, be also contracted or obstructed. This is a fact of more importance, perhaps, than any other in the surgery of arteries. It is established by many experiments and examinations, which ascertain the artery to continue pervious down to the last branch, whether that be near to, or remote from the ligature. The artery may even continue pervious for a considerable way below the last very distinct branch. In dissecting old stumps, we find that the femoral artery is pervious, perhaps to within half an inch of the extremity of the bone, and no considerable branch is given off, for a considerable space above that: a very small twig there may be sufficient to keep a tube pervious. While this may be fully admitted, it is not always considered in operations. If the ligature be applied just below the giving oft of a branch, that is, close by it, there is more chance of success, than if a quarter, or half an inch intervene. For the