252 be in a state to be benefited by depletion. Either all that we have been taught respecting the doctrine of sympathy is a mere foolery, and the whole system of pathology a delusion, or this practice must be destructive. The same remark I apprehend is applicable to all powerful evacuations, but we are not on that account to refrain from the use of mild laxatives, and at the same time, if the skin be hot and parched, the saline julap may be useful. With regard to the diet there has been the same variety of opinion as with blood-letting. Heister after telling us that in strong and plethoric habits we are to bleed largely, and to repeat the operation at discretion, adds, that to such patients we are to prescribe soups and ptisans mixed with lemon juice; but if the patient be older, or weaker, we are to give strengthening broths, “ also suppings of ale boiled with the yolks of eggs, cinnamon, and sugar. Old and rich wines; fine ales, especially for the poor, are to be added.” As there are two kinds of diet, the nourishing and debilitating; so there are two kinds of the former: the one is nourishing, but not stimulating, the other is both. Some articles prove either the one or the other, according to the state of the system, or the activity of the stomach. I appre- hend there has been mischief done by not attending to this fact. It is scarcely possible to conceive any case at all con- nected with those we are at present considering, where it would not be proper to support the strength by suitable nou- rishment : for even in those cases where we had some hesita- tion with regard to the propriety or safety of blood-letting, we can have none with regard to the necessity of supporting the strength. It is one thing to support the system by a mild pabulum, and another to employ a pabulum which is at the same time stimulating. No one will say that arrow-root- jelly, or chicken broth, are the same in their effects with Heister’s suppings of ale and yolks of eggs; or that a dinner of beef tea will have the same effect as one of beef steak. We are told by some systematics, that milk and vegetables should constitute the diet during the progress of the disease, and that animal nourishment should rarely be ventured upon till the gangrene stop. But it is by no means probable that