37 5 secretion now is often found altered, and is yellow and ropy, another modification of albumen. We may now inject the cyst with solution of sulphate of zinc, or with diluted port wine, provided it be not large. A scrofulous gland, when matter forms, may more properly be viewed as an encysted tumour than as an abscess; and as the cyst continues, even after it bursts, to secrete albumenous fluid, we can expect no cure till that cyst be destroyed, spontaneously or artificially, or undergo an alteration in its nature. When a scrofulous sore is produced either by the exposure of this abscess, or by a more superficial disease originally affecting the skin, we find that it is long of healing. It discharges serous fluid, which, after a length of time, becomes thicker, coagulates, or inspis- sates into an elevated crust of a dirty white, or yellowish colour, somewhat like the indurated excrement of a fowl. This is a preliminary, although a slow one, to healing. As the progress of recovery, however, is always tedious, different plans have been attempted for accelerating it, most of which have pro- ceeded on the supposition of the ulcer being one of debility. Various stimulants, both external and internal, have, therefore, been employed. With regard to internal remedies, I have not much to add to what has already been said. If the plan already mentioned fail, we may try moderate doses of nitrous acid, given alone, or with decoction of sarsaparilla, or for the benefit of exercise and change of situation, we may send the patient to Harrowgate or Moffat, where sulphureous waters may be used externally and internally; but if the season per- mit, I would have more expectation from sea-bathing. The local applications are generally of a stimulating nature, such as the unguentum hydrargyri nitrati of such a strength as not to produce pain, cloths soaked in solution of nitrate of silvei', or sulphate of zinc, of such a strength as merely to be felt, pressure, by means of adhesive plasters, and rollers, &c. The struma maligna is not an ulcer, but a suppurating sore of an irritable and painful nature ; occasional!}', it even assumes the form of sloughing phagedena. It is always obstinate, and, if connected with a diseased bone or tendon is never got the better of, till the cause be obviated. Where,