351 of no remedy for cancer; and when we do not operate, we can only do good by preventing it as much as possible from increas- ing. I believe that this is best effected by the simple plan propo- sed, and by guarding against any additional injury, or sudden changes of temperature. But I must make some more special remarks on certain proposals which have been made; and there may occur circumstances authorizing and requiring the use of means for their removal or abatement. Of these the most fre- quent is the accession of inflammation, either in the tumour or circumjacent texture, marked by increase of pain and gradual enlargement. Or there may be a degree of excitement and increased activity in the tumour without inflammation, marked by more pain, but no corresponding increase of temperature or of bulk. In either case, leeches may be applied, and after- wards cloths wet with cold water, may be laid on the tumour. These are fully as useful as any medicated lotion; but, like the leeches, they are only to be employed pro re nala, and neither are to be repeated unless they seem to do good. It is the practice, I am aware, to apply, at stated intervals, leeches, and to make use of what have been called discutient lotions. I hold this plan to be altogether unavailing; ->and if I be not greatly mistaken, I may go farther in stating, that it is positively hurtful. It may be of the most signal service in that more simple state of a tumour, which exists at its first appearance, and before its conversion into cancer; and I wish that both patient and practitioner could be made duly aware of the inexpressible value of the period during which that state exists. After the conversion into cancer, the obstinate and senseless reiteration of leeching can only tend to weaken the patient, and sooner break up the constitution. Another scheme to effect this, is to put the patient on a very low diet; whilst some insist also on the benefit to be derived from a liberal use of distilled water. The regimen must never stimu- late, but there ought always sufficient nourishment to be taken to keep up the strength. So far from starvation curing a cancer, it only accelerates, in the end, its progress. If carried to an extreme degree at an early stage, it no doubt produces emaciation, and by diminishing the general size of the breast,