91 SECTION SIXTH. If healthy blood be allowed to remain at rest, it separates into two parts, a red solid portion called crassamentum, and a thin watery part or serum. The whole forms usually at first one mass. Then, from every spot of it globules of fluid start out, and these collect so as to constitute a quantity more than equal to the crassamentum. It is quite impossible to say what time is required for coagulation, as this depends much on the state of the animal. Blood, received into a cup from a healthy sheep, coagulates almost immediately, and in the human sub- ject, if there be no inflammation, it rarely requires five minutes to make it firm. In reduced habits, the proportion of the two parts may be greatly altered, so that the crassamentum is not more than a sixth of the whole, and the time required for coagulation also varies. The crassamentum consists of two parts, fibrin and red globules; and if we may depend on Berzelius, the chief difference between these is in colour; and the proportion has been stated to be 36 of the former to 64? of the latter. The globules consist of two parts, a central colourless portion, and a red portion, which forms about two- thirds of the globule. The other parts of the blood also contain globules, but they are not coloured. The solid portion, or crassamentum, has little fibrin compared to the water which entei'S into its composition. I had a sheep killed, and received the first and the"'last blood, and found so little difference between them that it might easily be explained by the degree of exsiccation. Eleven drachms of each yielded, the one ten, the other nine grains of dried fibrin. This shows that the pro- portion of fibrin in the crassamentum does not vary rapidly. The serum of healthy blood contains albumen, and coagulates at 160° into a gelatinous mass of a whitish colour. It is con- sidered as a solution of much albumen with a small quantity of fibrin. In inflammation the blood undergoes a great change. In place of rapidly separating into serum and red homogeneous crassamentum, it coagulates slowly, and the crassamentum separates more or less completely into fibrin and globules, the