236 communication of action from the parts above. 1 have already noticed the principle whence this danger arises, in speaking of the sympathy of communication. In the present case, as in that of frostbit parts, we must take care to keep down action in the vicinity. The treatment, general and topical, must vary with the peculiarities of the case. When inflam- mation has decidedly taken place, the first question for con- sideration is the propriety of bloodletting, and this I hold to be one of the nicest that can come before the surgeon. After all the consideration I have been able to give to the case, I feel myself unable to deliver a precise and inflexible rule. All that I can with certainty say is, that where the marks of excitement are considerable, the strength not greatly sunk, and the local inflammation strong, the lancet ought to be used on the very first appearance of the symptoms of excita- tion. The extent and frequency of the bleeding must depend on the strength and the effects ; but in general it is not safe to carry it far. It is much better to trust to the effect of leeches applied to the immediate neighbourhood of the injured part, which not only allay, so far as evacuations can allay, the existing inflammation, but also tend to lessen the action of the parts around, and thereby prevent the communication of excitement. On the same principle, when the parts above are becoming tender and swelling, and at the same time are hot, cloths soaked in cold water ought to be applied. If, on the contrary, the parts be cold, they ought either to be simply covered up, or have cloths wet with camphorated spirit of wine applied. The treatment of the part more immediately injured, must depend upon its condition. In cases where the skin remains unbroken, leeching should seldom be neglected. When an wound is inflicted, every effort ought to be made to produce adhesion by the application of adhesive plaster, supported by a roller, to be frequently moistened with cold water. We must examine early, however, the state of the parts, for the danger here is generally marked, not merely by the failure of union, but also, and principally, by the com- mencement of erysipelatous inflammation. If this take place even in a slight degree, the adhesive plaster must be aban-