533 divided, there seems to be more excitement produced, and still more, if it be lacerated or punctured, and then inflamma- tion is apt to follow. At page 78, I have described the appearance of this, and I now remark, that the two prominent symptoms are, great pain in the tract of the nerve, from the injured spot to its extreme ramification, and such excitation, of the origin of the nerve, as gives rise to spasmodic affection, not only of the member, but of distant parts. The pain is sometimes excruciating, and described to be of the burning kind, or it may be a scarcely more tolerable combination of prickling and numbness. In some cases, the parts supplied, are so exquisitely sensible, that the slightest touch produces agonizing pain. In others, the greatest pain is produced by pressing on the seat of the injury, or swollen part of the nerve. The spasms vary, from slight twitchings of the limb, to severe tetanus, or the muscles beyond the injured spot may be permanently and rigidly contracted. It also happens that the subcutaneous substance of the limb may become swelled, tense, and painful, along the whole extent of the distribution of the nerve, and this occasions one form of what has been called diffused cellular inflammation. But this is not an essential effect of inflammation of the nerve. In like manner, the veins which accompany the distribution of the nerve may participate in the inflammation. Thus we find, that the vena saphena may be inflamed, inconsequence of injury or disease of the saphenus nerve, and vice versa. The general system is affected, in most instances, and we have frequent pulse, with the other attendants on acute fever, besides a complication of local symptoms arising from peculiar sympathies. The danger proceeds from three sources. The pain may be so great, and so continued, as to exhaust the patient, the fever may cut him off, or he may die in a tetanic convulsion. The symptoms may not come on for a day or two after the injury has been inflicted, the nervous inflammation not having been sooner established. They may also commence after the wound has healed, and in this case we generally find, that the nerve has not properly united. It has become involved in an effusion of fibrin, or inflammatory tumour, which, at