307 1 lie former, however, are much more frequent than the latter, inasmuch as the globules are sooner absorbed, and more diffi- cultly secreted than the lymph, but the immediate causes of the particular modifications are quite obscure. In so far as I have gone, then, a rupture of vessels, a mechanical injury, or a change of texture from previous inflammation, seem neces- sary for the production of a tumour. But tumours often appear without any evident cause, without injury, without pain, and are not known to exist till accidentally discovered. 1 he obscurity of their origin, however, is no proof that some slight inflammation may not have existed, or some injury may not have been inflicted, which was not attended to. But I am willing to give up the necessity of these causes, and admit that other actions, which still remain to be investigated, like other planets which may remain yet to be discovered, may, without any inflammation, effect a change of structure. The development of little vesicles or hydatids, has been supposed a frequent cause of tumours. The nature of these vesicles was long unknown. Some supposed them to be the capsules of httle glands. Others a swollen portion of a lymphatic. But by the time of Morgagni they began to be considered as animals. lhat indefatigable dissector supposed that they might be converted into morbid growths; and more lately we have had regular systems founded on the hydatidic origin of cancer and tubercles. That tumours of different descrip- tions contain cysts of various sizes, and that some are made up entirely of one cyst, we well know; but that these cysts are hydatids is a mere gratuitous supposition, no better established than that which furnishes the moon with inhabitants. Whilst I admit the possibility of a tumour originating with- out previous inflammation, I consider this to be rare, and attiibute the production in most instances to inflammation moie or less distinct. Let us apply any irritation or excite- ment to a part, and if it do not eventually produce suppuration, it is sure to cause effusion of fibrin, which is the basis of all tumours of a simple nature. It matters not whether we select as an example a spicula of bone, or a grain of sand, or a par- tic e of mercury, or the knot of a ligature, one and the same