97 1 used. The pulse from the first moment is accelerated, but not to a great degree, particularly in the early part of the day; and unless in severe and rather protracted cases, is never so high as in typhus fever. It may not at first be above 80, and during the course of the disease may never exceed 110. If it prove fatal, the pulse, however, beats more fre- quently, and also becomes intermittent or irregular and tre- mulous. It is always marked in the earlier periods as hard, and generally as full. In these respects, however, much must depend on the constitution of the patient, and the existing sympathies. The local symptoms and period of the disease, and effect of former evacuations, must be a better practical rule to follow in using the lancet than the mere state of the pulse. The tongue is white, and tolerably moist, but it soon becomes drier and browner, or yellowish and slimy, when the biliary organs are affected. In the cold stage, the urine is generally pale; in the hot it becomes high coloured, and in the wane deposites a lateritious sediment. The bowels are constipated. 1 he appetite is early diminished, and presently altogether lost, but the patient is thirsty. He continues in this state perhaps for several days; then the tongue becomes cleaner, he sleeps more calmly, and the skin becomes moist, whilst the thirst diminishes, and the appetite returns. If he grow worse, the pulse increases in frequency, and.becomes weak and irregular, the strength sinks, and the various func- tions fail. The two essential symptoms of fever are heat and frequency of pulse; for the cold stage, when it exists, is merely a pre- cursor, and does not constitute a part of the disease. It is therefore allowable to infer, that the nerves influencing the heart and the secretion of heat are principally affected. It seems established beyond all doubt, that whilst the heart can act for a time independently of the nervous influence, it is nevertheless most powerfully affected by the cerebellum and medulla oblongata and spinalis, and in part by the cerebrum. ^ itliout entering into physiological experiments, I may rest on the observations of every pathologist, which go to decide that torpor or inactivity of the cord or medulla oblongata H