20c2 plaster just mentioned applied, whereby it was cured, with the formation of merely two small blisters. A third class ol remedies, were mild applications, or sub- stances which at least possessed very slightly stimulating properties, such as the Arabian mixture of lime water and oil, cerussa, and the boles, which were used under the name of cold and dry medicaments. Yolk of eggs, mixed with oil of roses, was used by Rhases, and from Pare we learn that lard mixed with eggs was the usual remedy in his time, at the Hotel Dieu. The Arabians applied this liniment with cotton, a substance which has lately been used dry, and by itself. Modern practitioners are not agreed as to which of these plans should be adopted. Some prefer cold water; others, vinegar cold or tepid, according to the sensation of the patient: others, the more stimulating application of turpen- tine and resinous ointments. Were a burn in a debilitated state, and painful from that cause, simple stimulants should invariably do good. Were it, on the other hand, painful from excitement and inflamma- tion, cold and lowering means should uniformly do good. Now, neither of these positions can be maintained, from fact, to be invariably true. There is inflammatory action, with much sensation. We cannot suddenly remove the first, nor can we by one uniform remedy always allay the second. Our applications, however, must be considered in two views, as affecting directly the action, and as influencing the sensation. Whatever immediately or ultimately relieves the sensation, does good; and whatever, on the other hand, lessens the dis- eased action, relieves the sensation. Without involving myself to little purpose in a labyrinth of speculation on the laws of sensation, I will remark, that the first and plain rule in all cases, is to prevent the farther operation of heat, to remove instantly the exciting cause by applying cold. This, I appre- hend, to be common sense; for surely we can gain nothing by allowing hot or scalding substances to remain in contact with the skin, or even the skin itself to remain heated. The part being cooled, and freed from covering or clothes, the