338 e find that the substance is indurated like cartilage, but ten cut lias not the smooth glossy surface of that fabric. It lather grayer tn colour, and somewhat rougher in its appear- ance w.th strong membranes, or almost gristly looking septa, ° '"Jettons stretching m an irregular direction from some part, generally from the point where the disease commenced; for cancer beg,ns, as it were, from a nucleus, whence it extends o, radiates m every d.rection. These septa sometimes give to the sect,on a strong resemblance of the arbor vita, in the ceiebellum. Besides these septa, which are always more or ess distinct, and m uncertain number, we find numerous cysts interspersed through the whole substance, and in differ- ent degrees of progress. These, in a former work, I too oosely styled abscesses, but they are cysts composed of firm exture, almost fibro-cartilaginous. They are found of dif- erent sizes, or in various degrees of progress. At first they are neither empty, nor filled with fluid, but with solid sub- stance, and ore discovered by the segment of the cyst beimz of a white colour, whilst the interior is filled with softer, or more glandular looking substance of a gray or brownish red colour. 1 hey at first are not larger than a pin head, but gradually potassium and sodium, hydrochlorate of ammonia, oszimzome, and gelatin. 3d, A whitish sebaceous matter, consisting of albumen, oszmazome, cerumi- nous matter, and much phosphate of lime. Some other experiments make the tumour consist chiefly of albumen, with a smaller proportion of gelatin and sebaceous' matter. My illustrious colleague Dr. Thomson has examined a specimen of cancerous breast, and given me the following notes—1st It is soluble m strong nitric and muriatic acids. 2d, It is insoluble in sul- phuric acid, but assumes a reddish brown colour. 3d, In diluted nitric or muriatic acid, it does not dissolve, but becomes yellow in the first, and pale pink m the second, and buff coloured in diluted sulphuric acid 4th In strong caustic potash lee, it swells a little, remains white, assumes’the appearance of mucus, but does not dissolve. 5th, In acetic acid, it remains nearly unaltered. He adds, that the characters of the cutis resemble very- much those of the mammae. Long ago, Dr. Crawford noticed that, the secretion of a cancerous sore turned the syrup of violets green, and when mixed with sulphuric acid, evolved a gas similar to sulphuretted hydrogen, and which he imagined was’ before this decomposition, combined with ammonia, but his opinion has been disputed.