499 of fever. Some do so without considering that it is in itself more or less dangerous, and that whatever the result may be, all we can legitimately say of it is, that the patient has not died of the shock, that he has had strength to rally, and if he recover, has recovered in spite of the excitation or reaction, as it is called. The treatment of reaction can only consist in mitigating, by suitable applications, the local symptoms, so as to lessen the effect on the origins of the nerves, and in using such reme- dies as shall diminish the influence exerted on these origins, such as venesection, purgatives, anodynes, &c. We thus ' reciprocally improve the condition, and moderate injurious reaction. Two other states may attend an wound or injury; acute sensation, and great irritation. Both of these I have already noticed when treating of inflammation, and, therefore, have the less to say at present. There is a property of the nervous system, which enables it to convey to the mind impressions made by external objects, or agents, which may be pleasurable, painful, or neither exactly the one or the other. This is quite distinct from the susceptibility of action. The sensa- tion ought, ceteris paribus, to be proportioned to the degree of operation of the agent. But it is certain, that the nerves are more sensible at one time than another to such operation or impression. Different circumstances may cause this increased sensibility. The mere exposure, by wound or excoriation, of the extremities of the nerves, increases the sensibility, in so far as pain is concerned. B ut farther, all preternatural excite- ment of sentient nerves, tends to render their extremities more sensible, and these again may act on the origins, so as to render the whole nerve more acute. This excitement may be pro- • duced in three ways: first, by application to the extremities themselves* producing, immediately or directly, an increased excitation. A sinapism applied to the skin, produces at first no sensation; presently the nerves are excited, and the part becomes more vascular, which also contributes to increase the sensibility. Smarting is now perceived, and presently burn- ing and severe pain may be produced. In these different