m i more direct stimulants, such as warm brandy and water, warm wine with aromatics, musk, or tincture of opium, or solid opium. The two last are of great utility, particularly when the stomach is very irritable, or the patient is cold. Ihey allay the irritability of the stomach, and promote the evolu- tion of heat, but are not to be pushed far. Indeed, we ought never to give more of any kind of stimulus than is absolutely necessary to prevent farther sinking, or aid the system in rally- ing. For if we do, we are in great danger of inducing a state of dangerous excitement or inflammation. This is particu- larly the case, when a vital organ is affected, as, for instance, the brain. If the primary symptoms do not prove fatal, there is still ffreat hazard, from those of inflammation or excitation, O and, therefore, when we get rid of the apprehension of death from immediate failure or sinking, we must avoid all farther stimulation ; and even in those cases where stimulants have been avoided, or very sparingly used, there is a hazard of inflammation from communicated action, as I have formerly explained. When an injury has been accompanied with great and sudden pain, as, for instance, by scalding water, or tearing off an extremity, a state of stupor is very apt speedily to take place, even although no congestion of blood be produced in the brain. In such circumstances, opiates are hurtful, and assuredly are not in any way called for. Sinapisms to the scalp, purgative clysters, or purgatives, if they can be swallowed, are the proper remedies. The patient may rally from the state of shock, or collapse, but may not be restored to health. Even if the injury be not such as to cause much inflammation or excitement, the system may, in rallying, not stop at the proper point, but run on to disease, or undue excitation. But this is still more likely to happen, if the local injury be considerable, and productive of continued pain, irritation, or inflammation. Now, in this case, we have such conditions prevailing, not in a system pre- viously vigorous and sound, but in one sunk and disordered ; for although in theory it be easy to reason on pure debility and disorder, as separate from one another, yet, in practice,