200 A third effect is quite opposite to irritation. It is that of stupor. rl his is not consequent to previous excitement, which might be supposed to exhaust the system, but it is a sudden torpor of the brain, produced either by the instantaneous shock given to it as the sensorium commune, or somewhat more slowly by the increased sensibility of the scalded part diminishing that ot the brain. The fh'st is effected by sym- pathy of association, the second by sympathy of equilibrium, but the first is the most frequent in its operation. This stupor takes place, ceteris paribus, with a certainty proportioned to the youth of the sufferer. It may occur almost immediately after the accident, but it is more likely to appear after the lapse of one or two hours. The pupils are dilated, the pulse sometimes preternaturally slow, at other times frequent, and the child can with difficulty be roused. The breathing becomes slow and oppressed, the extremities cold, and in a few hours the heart ceases to beat. In more favourable cases, the stupor is inter- rupted by fits of tossing and restlessness, evidently from the pain of the injury. The pulse, if it had been slow, becomes quicker, the eye more sensible, and by degrees all appearances of torpor are removed. It is not to be forgotten, that in very young and irritable children, either the first or second effects may go to a fatal degree, from apparently a very slight cause. A fourth effect is inflammatory fever. This is never met with pure, but is always complicated, and often to a great extent, with irritation. This latter is generally proportioned to the degree of pain, whilst the former is at least much influ- enced by the actual inflammation present. The pure inflam- matory state of a burn soon subsides, for it is not long of end- ing either in ulceration or mortification. A hard and frequent pulse, flushed face, heat of surface, scanty high coloured urine, with lassitude, are the chief marks of this fever, but it seldom lasts long. When there is much irritation, the pulse is seldom full, but it is sharp; there is restlessness with irrita- bility both of body and mind. A fifth effect is exhaustion from various causes. The inflam- matory fever, even when it exists to a considerable degree,