feeble. The blood coagulates in the cavity, and is gradually absorbed, at the same time that the canal of the vessel at the wounded part is obliterated. There is no doubt as to the propriety of the practice in cases where the tumour is not extensive. But there may be a case where the artery, the femoral, for example, has been wounded in the middle of the thigh, the blood has been extensively effused, under the fascia, and perhaps among the muscles. The cavity is so extensive, that if the artery is to be tied before becoming involved in it, we must expose it at the groin, above the giving off of the profunda. It comes to be a very serious consideration, whether, in this great effusion of blood, and distended state of the thigh, more danger would accrue from tying the artery so high as to get above the branches of the profunda, and leave them to be filled by anastomosis with the ischiatic and gluteal arteries, than from opening the cavity near the seat of the wound, and tying both ends of the wounded vessel itself. In such a case, which fortunately is rare, there is a choice of evils; for, on the one hand, if the artery be tied veiy high, the limb already injured, and its component parts separated, is likely to suffer from the effect on the circulation; and, on the other hand, an opening of so extensive a cavity cannot fail to be dangerous, from the inflammation which may take place within it. There can no invariable direction be laid down, but as a general rule, I would advise the arteiy to be tied without opening the cavity. Having made these observations on the result of wounds when left to nature, or partly assisted by art, in restraining external haemorrhage, and considered the opinions which have been held with regard to the efficient causes of a cure where such could be obtained, I now proceed to notice the artificial means which have been employed for immediately lestiaining haemorrhage, and producing permanent security. The actual cautery was early and universally employed. It burned the vessel and the neighbouring parts, and formed an eschar, which stopped the blood in the meantime, and often closed the vessel afterwards. It did so, perhaps in various ways, all of which might contribute to the effect. The mere