makeit swell by the application of a cupping-glass, we have all the characters of inflammation without the disease; on the other hand, it is notorious, that in many of the worst and most dangerous inflammations, there is no sense of pulsation, and sometimes very little pain, except on moving or irritating the part. In certain degrees of pleurisy there is little or no pain, except on drawing a full inspiration. Apply an excite- ing cause of inflammation to a part, and vei'y soon the prominent symptoms appear, and yet the part is not actually inflamed. There can be no actual inflammation without a change of texture or organization. No inflamed part is the same as it was before inflammation, and this change is not as some suppose, confined to the vessels. They are changed, and altered in size, and apparently in number, but this does not constitute the action. In blushing, the capillaries contain red blood, which they did not do before, yet blushing is not inflammation. There is a change of the organization alto- gether, but more in one department than in another, and thus, as action and organization modify each other, we have variations and modifications of inflammation, according to the natural texture and action of oi’gans and parts; and some of these complications or modifications, which are not essential to the inflammatory action, may aggravate or moderate it. We cannot consider even the simple action of inflammation as consisting in any one simple change, whether we call it debility, or overaction, or enlargement of the vessels, or whatever else the fancy of the theorist may propose. Although, therefore, I set out with saying, that if we analyzed the inflammatory action, we should find it resulting from an excitation or augmentation of the natural preservative action of the part, yet it is not to be understood that I mean that it is merely an increase of vascularity, sensibility, &c. On the contrary, it is a new, and distinct, and unnatural action, leading to, and connected with, a new and unnatural organ- ization. And this leads me in limine to a most important remark, namely, that a cause of inflammation, whatever other mischief it may do, does not all at once produce actual inflammation, or change of organization, but a state