174 ov irritated. The production of urticaria, erysipelas, &c., by irritation of the liver, alimentary canal, or uterus, is now well known, and generally admitted. There may be, as one of the exanthemata, an efflorescence or erysipelas produced by internal causes: so may there be boils and phlegmons. As one phlegmon may differ from another in modification, depending on the exciting cause, so may one cutaneous or erythematic inflammation differ from another. They are all, however, modifications of one and the same action, the differential qualities depending not on the inflammatory action, but on what may be said to be appended to it. This connexion between the state of internal and remote parts, is illustrated by gout and by gangrenous affections of the extremities, apparently connected with the existence of disease in the lungs, spleen, liver, and heart. It is not found that this tendency can be explained by obstruction of circulation, for it is less frequent in those cases where t e organic affection of the heart or aorta would lead to expect it to be greatest. For a more particular illustration of the modus operandi of this class of causes, I refer to a preceding ^3 °By a combination of local injury with those internal irritations, we often have erythema produced when it would not take place from either cause singly, and we detect t ns bv the presence of those symptoms, or circumstances which indicate disorder of the chylopoietic organs. A oca injury often increases, or even produces disorder of the digestive functions, and this again reacts on the local affection. is a fact that is too little attended to, and yet how many can date their bad health, or perhaps a fatal disorder, to a lal 01 external injury, which at the time appeared trivial. Sprains l iniuries attended with much pain, often pioduce an n t f chylopoietic viscera, and are followed by derangement ot me ciry t urticaria and other cutaneous affections. This must be still more apt to take place where there is already a diseased liver, or a stomach greatly impaired; and hence eve,y one