163 the establishment of a tumour; and it partakes somewhat of the nature and character of each. This is therefore the proper place to notice it. It seldom affects the constitution, unless it be seated in a part where any simple irritation should influence the system. \Y hen it is so, the effect is not fever, but that state which I shall afterwards describe under the name of irritation : gene- i al bloodletting can therefore never be required, unless the disease exist in a part which cannot be touched by local bleed- ing, oi excepting in the short stage intervening between the actual end of acute inflammation, and the full establishment of this disease. Topical evacuation, however, by leeches or scarifications, will be found of signal service, and ought seldom to be omitted, when the situation of the part permits. The application of blisters, or the formation of issues in the same relative situations respecting the part as has been advised in acute inflammation, will be highly proper. If the disease be extensively diffused over a deep-seated part, the use of stimu- lating baths or embrocations is generally serviceable. Hence tbe advantages of Bath in many cases. Encouraging the exercise of the function of the part sometimes lessens the disease, but this is never to be done rashly nor hurriedly ; and it does not seem to have any power over the mere inflam- matory action. Those actions which may be performed by an inflamed part, and have no tendency to diminish that state, must irritate and do harm. Those which, by their per- formance, tend rather to diminish irritability, may do good. It is, therefore, when irritability predominates, that we would attempt this plan ; and it is on this principle that it sometimes succeeds in muscular affections and sensibility of tbe eye. On the principle of lessening irritability, and improving t e general health, mild laxatives, and tonics, such as bark or iron, have been recommended. The first can never be impropei. The second will be found useful in many cases provided that the action of the vascular system be not much excited. As our object is to increase the general strength wit lout producing arterial excitement, it is easy to see what iu ts may be laid down with regard to diet and the use of