441 Still the practice is good, and it prevents the possibility ol the two ends being inadvertently brought out at separate places. I Next, it has been advised to cut off both ends, and leave the knot either to remain, or find its way out the best way it could. Animal substance, such as silk, is generally employed Iin this view, and very often the wound heals over the liga- ture ; and when circumstances unconnected with the kind of ligature have afforded an opportunity afterwards of examining the parts, the knots have been found remaining on the extre- mities of the obliterated vessels, and surrounded by a covering or coat of dense substance. But in other cases they have been found lying in a little pus, or could not be detected at all. Had they, in this last case, been absorbed or discharged without observation ? The former conjecture has led to experiments with otl)er animal substances, supposed to be more capable of absorption than silk; but as yet, we are not possessed of suffi- cient information to give us confidence in the safety of these substitutes. Flaxen ligatures have been found lying in small cysts with pus. In general, they find their way out as readily, and with as little inconvenience, as if the ends were left. If complete adhesion take place, of the stump, for example, they work their way out, by forming for themselves a tract through the united surface; whereas, when the ends are left, adhesion never takes place in their tract, which therefore always exists. The plan, however, of cutting off both ends close by the knot, has not come into general use, and is never adopted in any case where irritation, if it were produced, could do sei'ious injury. No one, therefore, thinks of trying it in aneu- rism, nor in the extirpation of cancerous tumours ; in the first case, because the vessel might be excited by the long continu- ance of the extraneous body, and opened by suppuration. In the second, because if abscess did not take place, and the knot be discharged by it, the ligature might be surrounded by effusion of fibrin, which would presently be replaced by depo- sition of more dangerous materials, leading to a renewal of the disease. None of these evils, indeed, may happen in parti- cular cases, but still the uncertainty is a sufficient barrier to the adoption of the plan. The last circumstance I shall