496 him into a state enabling him to live only one, two, or three hours. Another, who has lost somewhat less, shall ultimately recover. There is an extent of loss of power, in whatever way it be induced, which unfits or incapacitates the animal for living. The action, in the first instance, sinks in proportion to the loss of power caused by the haemorrhage. With less than a certain degree of action, no animal can live, and without a certain degree of power, that action can neither be performed nor sustained. But the action must be of a certain kind in order to be useful. It is not enough that there be action of any kind ; it must be of the nature peculiar to the animal, in order to keep him alive, and I have stated (page 3) that one part of the natural action involves and implies the renovation or production of energy. Whatever lessens the degree, or varies the nature of the action, must, by interfering, to that extent, with the power or process of renewal, diminish the supply. For a time, the substitution of artificial stimuli called cordials, for the natural one of blood, in the case of haemorrhage, or in those cases where there is, from other causes, a sinking of action, a similar substitution, may, as I have said at page 17, be useful. But the only sure mean of safety is the restoration of the natural action. This, from what I have said at pages 7 and 132, appears to be difficult, if not impos- sible to do directly. We must remove the farther operation of the exciting cause, and must lessen, if we cannot destroy the diseased action, and then the natural action may be restored or diffused from a part yet natural, though weak, to parts now capable of becoming natural, and of recovering. It is clear, that in order to permit of restoration, the farther operation of the cause of disease must be interrupted. But it is no less certain, that if the system have been sunk beyond a certain degree, the mere interruption of that cannot be effec- tual, nor can recovery take place. If all, and every part, were sunk to the same degree, and alike incapable of recruiting, many must perish who actually do recover. Some parts, even in morbid actions, do probably resist the specific action more than the rest, and form a focus, whence a renewal of more natural action may take place, and be diffused. In suigica t