308 result takes place, namely, the effusion of fibrin, and the for- mation of a small tumour exactly like the huffy part of blood, but sometimes harder or softer, or more shining or duller. When this little tumour is formed, it comes, like the original cause, trilling as it was, which produced it, to act fre- quently in a similar way on the surrounding part, and it thus comes to spread or enlarge. This, then, is one way in which tumours arise, and a very small induration may be produced by pressure or some other injury, which can never, like a bit of thread or particle of mercury, be detected. But in other cases, more distinct and extensive inflammation may from some cause have been excited, and all at once a considerable swelling takes place; it may be of a gland, or perhaps in the subcutaneous cellular substance, but it matters not in what part of the body, or in what texture, be it bone or viscus, it is all the same. If the inflammation be not quite removed, the inflammatory texture is not absorbed, more or less fibrin remains, and a distinct, perhaps a considerable, tumour is at once formed and established. It may involve the whole gland or organ, or it may occupy only a part, whilst the rest for a time returns to health. I thus take up the ground, that almost every tumour owes its origin to inflammation more or less distinct, and that in most, if not in all which are not chiefly, if not entirely of a vascular nature, the solid structure at first consists of fibrin intermixed with the more unchanged texture of the part, but this may soon become altered, and new modifications of animal matter are met with. So long as the composition is made up of fibrin, there is little danger, for of all solid tumours, such are the most innocent. But when albumen or gelatin come to form a considerable part of the tumour, the case is otherwise, and if a sore be formed, that is at least very intractable. As a tumour is a new formation, we may compare it to a new animal connected to the old one, acting by its own pecu- liar laws, and at the same time so associated with the system to which it is attached, as to be, in varying degrees of facility, influenced by it, and capable of reacting in its turn upon it. We can say nothing a priori with regard to the actions or