charge, along with the saliva. The health declines early, and at this stage is very much impaired. It is a fatal complaint if not early eradicated. It is not sufficient to cut offj even when it can be done, the excrescence, for it is speedily repro- duced, but the surface must be destroyed from which it springs, or even part of the bone removed. I do not mean to consider at present polypous tumours in the nose or antrum, but when speaking of tumours about the gum and mouth, merely notice, that a simple tumour consisting of much albumen may form on tbe mucous membrane, which generally remains long innocent; but either in the nostril or antrum it may change its character, it becomes harder, moi’e organized, and involves the neighbouring parts, so that the bones become diseased, and are absorbed, and one or more fungi shoot out, at the same time that the lymphatic glands swell. It is fatal if not eradicated. Another modification of albumen is met with in the antrum, being like soft cheese, and very foetid. This also affects the bones. It should be scooped out, and the surface of the antrum cauterized. All these tumours become hard by boiling. No medicine has any control over these tumours, and it is worse than a waste of time to try any to the neglect of a timely operation. SECTION SIXTH. Another tumour much resembling this, is a little more compact, less distinctly granulated, and more like a texture intermediate between gland and cartilage, somewhat gelati- nous in its cut surface, and without the septa of cancer. If we make a section of this tumour, which may, for instance, have formed in the breast, we find that it generally ends abruptly, and is not lost gradually in the surrounding sub- stance, but there is no capsule. The surface is hard, firm, somewhat nodulated, and has no septa. The colour is a shade redder than the sound breast, particularly near the circum- ference of the tumour. Small streaks of vessels are seen in different places, and, elsewhere, red spots, from the division of vessels. Presently cavities appear, but these are not cysts.