133 exciting cause, and checking its farther operation. So long as a particle of sand remains in the eye, or an extraneous substance in an wound, or the surface of an wound be kept separate, or a part be still in an unnatural state, inflammation can neither be prevented or cured. The second remark is, that bleeding ad deliquium animi does no good, in so far as deliquium is concerned. Fainting may suspend action, but does not alter it; and when the system recruits, every part returns to its former state. II the evacuation have been great, and the change consequently considerable in the capacity of the arteries, fainting, by suspending the action for a few minutes, may possibly aid the general effect. But, on the other hand, as it often prevents us from taking so much blood away as we find to be necessary, it is as likely to be hurtful as useful; and, in point of fact, we do find that few patients are benefited by it. All ought to be cured, if inflammation were a mere increase of action and excitement. It is difficult, but nevertheless desirable, to ascertain the modus operandi of bloodletting. This, I apprehend, is' not simple, but comprehends several effects. It takes away a positive and direct stimulus, both in quality and quantity, particularly and most immediately in quantity. No stimulus is so important or so requisite, and therefore none in their variations can effect such changes. Heat is next to this, but by no means equal to it. In this point of view, no medicine, that we know of at present, can act in the same way, or super- sede the use of the lancet. Another effect is, that the capa- city of the artery must immediately accommodate itself to the diminished quantity of blood, and this is productive of instant contraction. A sudden alteration even in the mechanical action ,of an artery, may produce a change in its functional or morbid action; and therefore, this instant contraction of the vessels may go far to destroy or alter the inflammatory action itself. This also is an effect which we cannot produce by any other cause known at present than the lancet. The action of a part, whether healthy or diseased, is not to be considered as simple, or merely comprehending one act or function, but many. The circulation is only one part of the