482 tube of the vein, lias been attended with fatal consequences. And the same have resulted from the division of a vein, and the application of a compress. The application ol a ligature has been followed by vomiting, fever, and delirium, ending with slow pulse; all which symptoms have speedily gone off on removing the ligature, and, therefore, they could not have arisen merely from inflammation. Inflammation of veins will hereafter be considered. When an artery is wounded through a vein, a natural cure is more easily effected than if no intermediate tube existed. It pressure be immediately applied, we often find that the external orifice closes, and adhesion takes place, so that both the skin, and the outer, or cutaneous face, or wall of the vein, become again entire. I shall presently notice the different states which may take place, but most frequently the communicat- ing orifices remain permanently open. The consequence of this is, that the blood, passing down by the artery, goes in part along the continuation of its trunk and ramifications to the extremity of the limb, whilst the rest enters the vein, which thus becomes very unnaturally grafted on, or attached to, the artery, and converted into a great but retrograde division of it. Three consequences result from this: First, the lower part of the limb must be supplied with a somewhat smaller quantity of blood than formerly, and the vessels must contract in the same proportion. Second, the blood from the artery impinging against the coats of the vein, must dilate these to a certain extent. The extent is limited by two causes; namely, the coats of the vein admitting only of a certain degree of distention, unless they be either diseased, or more violently acted on; and the formation of a varix, or enlargement, to such an extent as the coats permit, whereby the force of the arterial blood on these coats is lessened, and that, evidently, in proportion to the size of the varix. Third, in the portion of vein between the wound and the heart, there must be a mixed state of the blood, partly venous, partly arterial, and farther, there may be, by the flow of arterial blood into the vein, some resistance afforded to the free transmission of the blood from the extremities of the vein. The arterial blood