90 shooting out even to the naked eye with great promptitude, 10m those which at first seemed alone the receivers of red blood. If the intestine be now replaced, and the wound of the abdomen carefully closed, we may find that within four hours the bowel has been restored to its natural state. If the hver be in like manner exposed, its peritoneal coat becomes redder, but it also returns to health, if the cause be removed. Now, I am quite aware that these are not cases of inflamma- tion, but merely of the prelude to it; but they illustrate the fiist step of recovery, and ought to impress on the mind of the student the incalculable value of the first hours of disease, when remedies may arrest a disease, which, if established, cannot perhaps by any effort be controlled. The same lesult is obtained by experiments on the web of a frog’s foot, If we allow the disease to proceed farther, we find that inflam- mation is established, and then resolution is more slow. The vessels gradually contract, the globules are seen to move along, the blood, which perhaps had lost its globular appearance, begins to resume it. The capillaries no longer receive red blood, and the infiltration of muddy serum is finally absorbed. Resolution, then, or the direct diminution of inflammatory action, involves three circumstances. The contraction of the vessels, the abatement of sensibility, and the absorption of adventitious deposites or effusions. Another termination is in chronic tumour, which has im- properly been called schirrus. In this case the sensibility abates, and the vessels greatly contract, but the deposite is not absorbed; it even becomes sometimes firmer or more oro-an- O ized, and a new structure or parasite is grafted as it were on the body. This possesses an action proper to itself, which is often still so far of an inflammatory nature, that by removing it the tumour abates. Suppuration and gangrene are the other terminations of inflammation, for any other may be referred to these. Ulcer- ation is often, but very improperly, confounded with suppu- ration : all of these shall presently be considered.