2 Of the nature of these principles we are ignorant. Whether theie be only one material substance or element capable of various modifications, or whether there be many elements essentially different from one another, it is not possible at present to determine. This much, however, we know, that from only one or two supposed elements, many varied com- binations may be formed, in all the kingdoms of nature. When analyzed, the numerous animals and vegetables are found to differ very little from each other in their elementary princi- ples. If we turn to synthesis, we meet with the same fact, for, from the same pabulum, multiform varieties are produced, apparently, by the operation of the active principle connected with the different individuals, and which is itself modified by the peculiarity of the organization or texture. The connexion between life and organization, and the mutual dependance of the one upon the other is too mysterious to be explained. But the fact we do know, that the one does modify the other, and that a certain structure and intimate organization, that of the human body, for example, has a peculiar kind of life, the exist- ence of which is manifested by special phenomena, and the performance of particular functions, which in their turn serve to preserve the principle. Water acted on by a vegetable seed, is changed and recomposed into a vegetable structure, daily increasing in size and vigour. Whence does this plant acquire its increase of vitality or active principle, which must be greater in the full grown tree, than in the embryo ? Is it not by a modification of the active principle of matter, called attraction, in the same way as the material part is supplied, by changing the organization of the absorbed matter. And again, is not the vegetable, the source of support and increment to the animal frame, whilst its principle of attraction, or active principle, becomes the source of animal vitality. Give what name we will to the agent, we must still admit its existence, and I know not how we can better account for the origin, and continuance, and increase of vegetable and animal life, than by referring it to the change of the universal principle of activity, called attraction, of the nature of which we know nothing, but of the existence of which, we have proof and demonstration