370 There are many who require restrictions; there are others, who may be the better of special instructions. But in laying clown the one, and delivering the other, the practitioner, if a man of sense, will proceed on two principles. First, that whatever is readily digested by the individual, may be taken by him; and, secondly, that the quantity taken at a time, and the periods of eating, be such as fully to satisfy, but not to load the stomach. It is also the custom to recommend wine or malt liquoi*, with a view to remove debility. I will not say, that these, in some instances, may not only be useful, but also necessary. But I am quite sure, that, very often, par- ticularly with children, they do more harm than good. They are apt, first, to excite the stomach too much, and subse- quently to produce farther injury by turning into vinegar. As for home-made wines, they are little better than poison. The prescription of wine is always agreeable to relations, as well as to the patient. It is supposed to be both strengthening and nourishing. It is a mere cordial, a temporary stimulant, and only useful in that view. There may be cases where it is serviceable, in promoting digestion ; and where it is requi- site in this view, it ought certainly to form part of the regimen. A safer and more effectual mean, however, of promoting digestion, is the exhibition of suitable laxatives, when the bowels do not spontaneously do their duty. The greatest attention ought to be paid to this point, yet, I would not be misunderstood, or supposed to recommend purgative medi- cines, in those cases where they are not required. The clothing ought to be warm, and adapted to the season of the year. A flannel dress is highly serviceable, in order to coun- teract sudden changes of temperature. As much exercise, in the open air, as can be taken without fatigue, is of the utmost consequence, and, if the earlier years of life can be spent altogether in the country, it will be so much the better. Sea- bathing, during the summer and autumnal months, is also of great service, provided it agree with the patient. But it it produce languor, coldness, sickness, or headach, it does harm. Where sea-bathing cannot be obtained, the plunge-bath may be used at home.