cS2 tion, of a black colour, or like port wine, and as soft as liver. But occasionally, whilst the muscle is rendered redder and softer, little pus is found in its substance, but a curdy white matter around it, and partly in it, like the matter in scro- fulous abscess. This is well seen in the rabbit. In compound fractures, gunshot wounds, contusions, and extensive laceration, or severe burns, &c. we often meet with inflammation of the muscles in all its degrees and modifications. Sometimes they are scarcely inflamed, but detached from one another by suppuration of the connecting cellular substance, and then they are found pale and flabby, with a few vessels ramifying in them. In more decided inflammation ; they are of a deep red or brown, with much infiltration of serum; or of a dirty yellow colour, scarcely more cohesive than the huffy coat of blood, and perhaps with many little collections of pus within them ; or the muscle may be nearly black, apparently from admixture of venous blood, and as soft as liver; and in extensive disease it may he converted into one indistinct flabby putrid mass, such as is seen in dissecting-rooms on removing the skin from a limb which has been long kept. Bones consist of two parts; an external, more or less hard, sometimes apparently altogether solid, and yet containing canals visible by the microscope; and an internal, more or less spongy, or sometimes reticulated, or forming a cylindrical canal, with a few septa. The outer surface is covered with the fibrous and vascular membrane called periosteum, which is attached by cellular filaments. The inner cells or canals are lined also by a vascular membrane, which in some of the bones contains marrow. This membrane not only lines the larger cavities, but is prolonged with minute vessels into the little canals, seen only by the microscope. Bones receive different orders of vessels; one kind enters by those conduits or large canals which are evident in most bones. They are accompanied by corresponding veins, and are distributed on the internal membrane, but have not been traced into the osseous texture itself. Small nerves also accompany the arteries, for the mem- brane is sensible. Some deny, however, this sensibility, whilst Bichat maintained that it was greatest towards the middle or