367 I These facts can scarcely be disputed, and are the more readily admitted, because we see a direct sequence of the effect from the supposed cause. But is there any thing more improb- able in the supposition, that slow changes in the state and action of the origins of the nerves, or certain conditions of these, whatever name be given to them, may influence organs supplied by these nerves, producing slow change of texture, enlargement followed by inflammation, either as a concomi- tant effect of the primary cause, or resulting from actions more inherent in, or dependant on alterations of, the new growth itself. There is no part or oi-gan exempt from the operation of this cause, but some suffer more readily than others. The lungs are often affected, and tubercles are formed in them. Mucous membranes also suffer readily, more espe- cially if local injury be applied, a remark, indeed, applicable to every organ. The lymphatic glands are often affected, and it may be asked whether this be owing to the direct ope- ration of diathesis on them, owing to the peculiarity of their texture and functions, or whether they be only affected in a secondary way, by the absorption of irritating matter formed elsewhere. I rather think that both causes are capable of acting. There is a peculiar texture in scrofulous disease, possibly even in diathesis, although too indefinite to be discriminated. This peculiarity of texture may exist before scrofulous inflam- mation, or, in other words, for a long time without inflaming; and then when it does, the inflammation, as a matter of course, is scrofulous, or we may find, that by the application of an evident exciting cause, inflammation apparently of the simple kind may be induced in a part to all appearance previously healthy. This may end in scrofulous inflammation, whilst at the same time the texture is converted into scrofulous organi- zation. This is the case where the diathesis is very strong ; for all actions become, if continued, more or less modified by the diathesis, and none more readily than the inflammatory, insomuch, that scrofula has been considered as a species of inflammation. But inflammation is merely an accidental