268 same. It is called hectic from its continuance, or becoming in a manner habitual. We might with more propriety call it the suppurative fever, but little good comes from changing established appellations. Pain, irritation, and ether conco- mitant circumstances not essential to the case, may modify the constitutional effects. In a phlegmon in the cellular sub- stance, when abscess forms, the commencement of suppura- tion is marked by slight chills or irregular shiverings. The palms of the hands and the soles of the feet become in the evening a little hotter, the pulse is perhaps slightly accelerated, and towards morning a gentle perspiration appears. These symptoms, however, are sometimes so trifling, as scarcely to merit attention. In deeper and extensive suppurations, they are, however, better marked, and the irregular chills alone are sufficient to indicate that matter is forming. Few sur- geons, however, give the name of hectic to this state, but reserve it, without any very good reason, for a later period, and perhaps a more confirmed degree of the disease. Hectic has been denominated a remittent fever. The exacerbation commences in the afternoon; it is often, but by no means universally, preceded by a cold fit. Whether it be or be not, marks of increasing excitement of the sympathetic nerve appear, for the heat becomes every where increased. The spinal nerves supplying the hands and feet, and the fifth paii, particularly its second branch, are influenced, for the palms of the hands and soles of the feet are both parched and hot, the cheeks become flushed and hot. The pulse, which, even during the remission, was preternatuially quick, becomes accelerated, sometimes to 120 or upwards in the minute. Along with this increase of fever, the patient generally becomes more lively, and continues so till towards night, when disturbed sleep comes on. In the morning, but not at any certain hour, perspiration takes place, at first slight, but in the progress of the disease it becomes profuse. The pulse gradually abates, the sleep becomes a little more tran- quil, and we find, upon awakening, that the pulse, though not natural, is slower, and the heat has abated. The face is pale, the features, if no oedema have taken place, are more