507 musket ball or bit of cloth in an wound, a splinter of bone, or a dead cartilage, may all produce direct irritation. Second, a sensible state of parts capable of influencing the system may produce irritation. Hence some internal tumours, such as those of deep-seated glands, or piles, or diseased ovarium, &c. may produce general irritation. Third, it may be caused by part of an wound remaining without assuming any healing process, especially when accompanied with a certain degree of sensa- tion. There are some textures which continue the suppu- rative action long, and with difficulty assume that of granu- latory. Hence irritation is apt to follow from injuries of bones, but especially of cartilages, tendons, and capsules. Fourth, certain conditions, connected with the peculiar way in which the injury has been inflicted, or with the state of divided nerves, or with the mode of treatment, occasion, for a time, irritation. These conditions and modes, occur previous to the appearance of irritation, and may last after it has begun. They are compatible with adhesion or granulation. Irrita- tion is apt to succeed extensive wounds, although these may be doing well, and still continue to do so, unless the irritation affect them. When many stitches are required, or when an wound is lacerated or bruised, irritation is likely to be pro- duced. When irritation manifests itself, not so much from the positive or absolute degree of the cause, as from preternatural irritability of the habit, that can only be lessened, when it is not dependant on the original constitution of the person, by, first, such means as diminish undue susceptibility and morbid sensibility; for although these states do not constitute irrita- bility, yet they contribute to its production. This plan is to be attempted by the removal of those adventitious excitements I have alluded to, in speaking of sensibility, such as indu- rated or offensive fasces, bile, local disease, or derangement of function, &c. Second, avoiding sucb causes as may directly increase these conditions, such as positive stimulants, too much or indigestable food, &c., or if there be too much blood, or a tendency to synocha, detracting blood. Third, such means as can improve the general health and strength, such as mode-