«n the burning is confined to one extremity, or moderate por- tion of the skin, attended with much inflammation and decided synocha, marked by general heat, throbbing pulse, flushed face, &c., that the lancet can be useful. Yet, amidst the various changes which take place in the fashions of physic, I can easily foresee that some bold speculator will propose the indiscriminate use of bloodletting in every case, and will suppoit his advice by the utility of the remedy in other inflammations; and the argument, that if we bleed in a pleurisy to subdue inflammation, we ought to bleed to a greater degree in inflammation of the skin to cure a burn. Next, he will support his cause by the advantage which follows from the detraction of blood in some cases of erysipelas, a disease in which Sydenham did not refrain from the lancet. But a burn is not a simple case of inflammation, one which begins slowly, and arriving presently at an acme, proceeds from thence either to recovery or destruction. It is a disease established at once, and consisting of a change so sudden and so violent, that no remedy, when it is severe to such a degree as to warrant oiu thinking of venesection, can speedily restore the parts to health. There is a combination of irritation, in the part and in the system, with inflammation, and the surface itself is not meiely inflamed, but it is excited to excessive sensibility, covered with lymph or serum contained in blisters, the texture of the cutis perhaps injured, or purulent secretion about to be established. In this state we can hope little from venesec- tion. I he most temeritous follower of Sangrado can scarcely propose to bleed so as to subdue the local disease, for there aie parts indeed of that disease, which never can be removed by venesection. All that any man can hope for, is to allay the inflammatory fever, and thereby lessen the high action of the system, and the reaction of that on the local disease. But he will never attempt this chance without recollecting that he cannot always succeed, inasmuch as a great part of the con- stitutional effect arises from irritation, which the lancet cannot SU ue3 and that if he fail, and even in some degree if he •succeed, he leaves all the secondary stages of the injury to be xune y a debilitated and exhausted frame.