430 / the sponge, which can afterwards only be removed by cutting away a portion daily as it rises. Some, applied more solid compresses on the artery, of which the most frequent was a pellet of chewed paper, which was tied strongly down, and if the artery ran over a bone, and were not very deep, this, if properly preserved in its situation, might obliterate an artery in the same way with a ligature. Compression indeed was an old method, and might be traced to the time of Albucasis, and many ingenious contrivances were adopted for effecting it, either by pressing on the face of the wound, or on the course of the artery; or sometimes continued pressure was made by the hand for days, by a change of assistants. This compression, which was trusted to in many instances for a permanent cure, was long of being effi- ciently employed for procuring a temporary obstruction to the flow of blood in the performance of operations. Even in amputation it was only partially used. A simple band was put round the limb, and compression farther increased by grasp- ing with the hands. Severinus notices the application of a pad or splenium over the artery. Morell, in 1674, twisted the simple ligature tightly with a pin. Young, four years after- wards, joined the pad to this, but was not very nice as to the means he used for twisting. Petit, in 1718, invented the screw tourniquet. This was assuredly the means of preserving much blood, as well as many lives. But like every other good thing, it has been much abused. A hard pad, and a tightly screwed tourniquet, have been the means of obliterating the artery at the part acted on. Objections of a different nature have also been brought against the use of the tourniquet in amputation, but there is no occasion at present for entering into this subject. . . Pressure being so obvious a way of restraining the imme- diate flow of blood, it would have been strange had men, m a civilized state of society, however ancient, overlooked the most direct way of accomplishing this, namely, tying the artery itself. This was occasionally advised by the ancients, and is particularly recommended by the Arabians. Albucasis, speak-