5 42 can, even it' the means employed should be absolutely of a debilitating nature, as we thereby, by sooner restoring health, render exhaustion less to be apprehended. But there are other, and not less important, views to be taken. A disease may be produced by the direct application ot a cause to a part. The disease so produced, may affect the constitution, and in its turn be affected by it again. The disease, so produced and continued, may run a certain course in a constitution previously healthy. 1 he very same kind of disease, produced by a similar cause, may run a different course, or be modified by the previous state of the system, or by sympathies excited by particular parts. A disease may be produced by causes acting on the medulla spinalis or oblongata, or, through these, from other organs. Thus, we may have vomiting, purging, hepatic affection, fever, disease of the brain, boils and eruptions, from the state of the chylopoietic viscera. There are two different states in disease, admitting, how- ever, of multiform varieties and modifications. One acute, marked by evident excitement, making a comparatively rapid progress, and attended with more or less evident local dis- order ; the other more chronic, both of the system and of the part, as we see in tumours, ulcers, inveterate derangement of function, &c. In both cases, though under different circum- stances, and in varying degrees, we see the influence of the constitution; and after all that has been written on the sub- ject, we come to this, that when the disease is curable, it is so, chiefly, by using such means as mitigate or curb particular effects and manifestations of action, and by those, which improve the general condition of the system, particularly by the removal of all local disorder and derangement of function, or, which improve the action, and performance of the function, of every individual part, which brings us much to the same point. If one part of the system can act on the rest, as it would be vain to dispute, and if the more sensible and important organs do so in a superior degree, it will naturally follow,