the spot where the ligature was applied, but generally it stops a little way above the remains of the sac, and the trunk is pervious from that, up to the spot where it was tied. It receives blood by collateral branches, and gives it out again by small vessels, but it is of no importance to the limb as a medium of circulation. Sometimes the vein also is obliterated to a great extent, although not injured apparently by the operation. When we attend next to the state of the ramifications of the artery above the part where it has been tied, we find, that from the moment of the operation, there is an impulse given to them. The blood which ought to have gone directly along the obstructed trunk is directed to these branches, which enlarge with more or less rapidity, and very universally, so that the member above, and just below, the ligature is much more vascular than before the operation. These branches, by their free communication with others still lower, transmit blood to them, and, to a certain extent, the circulation in them becomes retrograde, their ramuli being converted into ramuli of those from above, and enlarging so as to constitute branches of a higher order, and sending downward their pro- longations. It is even possible for blood to move in a retro- grade course all along some of them to the trunk itself, which thus becomes supplied, though neither so forcibly nor so fully as formerly, with blood. Were it not for this, we never should have haemorrhage from the lower orifice of a divided artery, nor should the aneurismal tumour receive any blood after the ligature was applied. The establishment of a retro- grade circulation, to a certain extent, is the work only of a moment. It is quite clear, then, that the aneurism is supplied with blood immediately after the ligature is applied, but it is supplied under different circumstances. Although still full, yet it receives less in a given time, and what it does receive comes to it with a diminished force, and passes through it with less velocity. The pulsation is instantly stopped, and never returns, unless the circulation be more freely restored than is usual in the trunk leading to the tumour, d here is an immediate effort made, on applying the ligature, to send blood by the neighbouring branches, and these enlarge first