69 many red grains, and the orifices of numerous vessels are observed. II the inflammation have been high, the texture is very soft, marbled, and not unlike the spleen. When the inflammation has scarcely begun, the parenchyma is both softer and paler than usual, like the olive colour exhibited by the surface previous to inflammation. The secretion is always affected ; a brownish yellow viscid bile, is found in the biliary ducts of the inflamed part, whilst those of the neighbouring poition are more than usually full, and the fluid is thin and yellow. At a more advanced stage, the ducts in the inflamed part have rather a bloody serum in them than bile, and those of the other parts have a bile less bitter than it ought to be. As the liver is never all at once universally inflamed, and as its varying and different states must affect the quantity and nature of the secretion, we cannot expect to find the effects to be the same in every instance. But in most cases, the quantity of secretion is early increased, and vomiting of green bile is not a rare symptom at first. The colour renders it probable that it is chiefly cystic bile; but the quantity indi- cates a previous increased secretion. The gall-bladder, when inflamed by exposure, or by participating, as it often does, in the disease of the liver, becomes finely arborescent with red vessels. The duct often is inflamed and thickened. The hepatic, and even the common duct, may also be diseased. Either from the inflammation, and perhaps spasm of the ducts, or from pressure by the enlarged liver on some part of the excretory apparatus, jaundice is not an uncommon attendant on hepa- titis. I he duodenum also participates either more directly, or through the medium of the duct, and so a protracted and fiital disease of that gut may succeed a very moderate inflam- mation of the liver. I need scarcely say that other viscera in the vicinity may suffer from juxta-position, and amongst t ie rest, the colon, causing an obstinate dysenteric affec- tion. Hepatitis is marked by pain more or less acute in the legion of the liver. The connexions of this viscus are so extensive, that the direction and extent of the pain, as well aS °. Ue symPathefic and indirect symptoms, such as vomit- ing, nccup, See. must vary according to the principal seat of \