327 This kind of tumour may affect the same parts, and follows in all respects the same course with the former variety. Like it, it does not ulcerate or fungate, but it often foi'ms irregular pro- jections, which are found in different stages: at one part we find a tumour like a pile or haemorrhoid, of a venous colour, and covered with thin skin; at another we find a larger one, with its surface more abraded, and also more irregular and mottled; whilst in a third the skin over a projection may have given way, by a species of suppuration; a serous or bloody fluid in that case is discharged, and the substance of the tumour expands by growth, which gives it the appearance of fungus at that part where it is exposed. But I need scarcely repeat that there is a material difference between an expansion or growth of the tumour at that part where there is least resistance, and a building up by, or sprouting of, exuberant granulations, the subjacent tumour meanwhile remaining the same. The only difference between this tumour and the former is, that we find on cutting it, that it contains cavities of different sizes. They have no distinct capsule, but rather appear like excavations in the tumour, and cannot be looked upon as cysts. They are filled with a bloody fluid of a foetid smell; their internal surface is of an a^h colour, and appears as if smeared with mucus. As soon as these cavities are formed, perhaps even earlier, the tumour has an elastic feel, like spongoid tumour. Before the skin become discoloured, the neighbouring lymphatic glands are sometimes affected, and the health always suffers; but it fails still more rapidly after the tumour is exposed, for then both the pain and the fever increase. When this tumour com- mences about the orbit, which it sometimes does, we find a little more water in the ventricles than usual, which must accelerate death. The optic nerve loses its proper texture, but does not become black. The ophthalmic artery is much enlarged. When this tumour begins in the lachrymal gland, the eye is soon protruded, vision is lost, but not by partici- pating m the diseased organization. Nothing but the knife can be of the least service in this disease; and we must have recourse to it early. When the lachrymal gland is attacked,