279 ‘ interference. The simplest of these, is that in which the discharge is so profuse as to exhaust the patient. It may be called colliquative; but it rarely exists without some other combination, such as fever or irritation. In so far as it does operate, we can only obviate the effect by suitable nourish- ment, and, if necessary, by such remedies as increase appetite, anc promote digestion, at the same time, that we employ sue 1 oca treatment as may lessen the discharge. A much more requent, as well as a more formidable consequence, is hectic fever. I know of no direct or specific remedy against this, no mean of changing (I fear I may say of abating) the general action. So long as local inflammation exists in a pleurisy, so long must general inflammatory action continue We may diminish its degree, but we cannot alter its nature. VVe may lessen the absolute strength, without affecting the relative activity. So long as suppurative action continues, lectic fever will also continue. The system may vary, accord- ing to circumstances, in strength or weakness, but still it is a lec ic system. If the suppuration have produced hectic r’DO speci.fic ”medy>-"o mean whatever, can remove that otherwise than by removing the exciting cause. We may by arn&ial interference kill our patient, or we may keep him a little longer alive; but he dies, or he lives as a hectic patient V e must either cure the local disease, or remove the dis- easet pait. I shall not, therefore, enumerate the remedies vluch have been idly proposed for overcoming hectic fever ten the local disease cannot be cured, and is so situated that the part can be removed, this ought to he done; and I have every reason to suppose that I have seen obstinate sinuses in he breast, where laying these open has not produced a cure, . U W lere removd °f the breast might have saved life. For m such severe cases, either the patient is worn out by hectic p.oduced by the breast alone, or new parts, such as the uterus ecome i lseased, and sink her faster. As to the general treat propos deCTCl ^ are °"ly tW° P'anS WWch C™ be "Anally dien to nrom 7 13 '° S"PP°rt the stren«th by nourishing 5 , P note digestion, and improve, so far as we can thp Gla C°nStltutlon by salubrious air, and tonics which are