c2 98 a sore is formed; but sometimes, before this, matter can be pressed from the little abscess, and find its way out at the former sore. The object of treatment ought to be to induce the ulcerative or granulating process; but this cannot be effected till we know the causes which produce this acute sup- purative state. They sometimes consist in diseased states of the constitution, as for instance scrofula, and some forms of the struma maligna of the old writers, bore all the characters of tllis sore- A constitution injured by intemperance, par- ticularly by excesses committed in a warm climate, I have also found apt to produce it. Patches of erysipelatous inflam- mation are also apt to end in this. We have no power of speedily altering the constitution. Mercury is often given as an alterative, at other times, for no other reason, but because it is necessary to do something, and on either principle its administration is useless. But what is more directly to the point, it never does good, although it may do harm. In this sweeping condemnation I do not include a mercurial purge, but this does not act as mercury upon the system. Decoction of sarsaparilla has also been employed, and where the patient insists on the privilege of swallowing drugs, it is I believe as harmless a one as he can amuse himself with. The bowels, on a general principle, ought to have their action kept up to a sufficient degree, by that form of laxative which agrees best with the patient; the diet should be light, and in most instances fermented liquors should be abstained from. As this sore is painful, sometimes to such a degree, as to pro- cure. for it the name of Irritable ulcer, it is necessary to give opiates to such extent as shall allay the sensation. It would be dangerous to neglect this, and we shall always find the sore do best when the pain is subdued. I have tried cicuta internally, but not with the same benefit as is derived from opium ; but when the latter does not agree, the former should be given to such an extent as to influence the nervous system. Quinine I have tried alone, or combined with cicuta, but not with decided advantage. No one local application can be depended upon, and we must try one after another in each individual case, till we find out that which suits, or relieves