52 7 stances, he must be beyond all conception punctilious, who delays till he can determine the exact breadth and length, and locality of the disease. But, secondly, we have, in all serious cases, inflammatory fever, more or less exquisitely marked, sometimes coming on slowly, sometimes rapidly, according to the state of the local disease. It is quite useless to detail the symptoms of this fever, for it essentially differs in nothing from that I have already described under the name of synocha. I would only make two remarks. First, the pulse is generally hard and throbbing, even to a greater degree than in some other symptomatic fevers, and may also, if the heart, or vessels coming off* from it, be affected, be irre- gular. SecoJicl, the pi*evious state of the system, produced by the injury or diseased organ which may have caused the arteritis, must have some influence in modifying the constitutional effect of the arterial inflammation. We cannot expect the symptoms to be exactly the same, granting the arterial inflam- mation to be precisely of the same extent, in a case origi- nating from, or complicated with, a compound fracture, a gangrenous limb, a lacerated finger, an inflamed lung or uterus, or in one directly produced by sudden or long expo- sure to cold. The treatment must also be regulated by circumstances, but it is always anti-inflammatory. We detract blood instantly, and more or less freely and repeatedly, according to the pre- vious state of the system, and the urgency of the symptoms. If the constitution be strong, and the disease acutely produced, we bleed as copiously as we should do in pleurisy. If it have followed an amputation, or succeeded to a debilitating injury, we still may find it necessary to bleed, but must do so more cautiously. If it appear in the course of some previous inflammation, for which we have already been using the lancet, we must, nevertheless, bleed generally and topically, as we should have done in a relapse or aggravation of the original disease. We apply leeches over the tract of the artery, if it be in an extremity; or a blister, if it be in a cavity, and follow out, in all respects, the same methodus medendi which we should adopt in other dangerous inflammations. If \