515 that absolutely required to moderate the exciting action, and prevent inflammation from running high, and mortification from taking place, the patient is apt to sink. In mil cases of tins fever, we do not bleed at all, hut trust to laxatives and spare diet. In more severe degrees, we blee once, and seldom find it necessary to repeat the evacuation, liut the case is far otherwise in injuries of vital organs or delicate parts; for then, if we do not bleed early and freely, we lose the patient. Yet, even in these cases, we may push the lancet too far; and after having done all that can piudently be one to mitigate or check the disease, we may, by one other bleed- ing, extinguish the power of recovery. We may also, by bleeding frequently, but not efficiently, conveit a most va u able remedy into the mean of sinking him whom it might have saved. Another important consequence of wound, is the induction of disease in other parts. I need not say that the oiiginal injury or accident may, at the moment of its infliction, have affected not merely the part which bears its mark, but also some distant part, the effects on which either did not at first appear, or, from the greater importance of the chief wound, were not attended to. The constitutional or sympathetic effects produced by the principal wound, may cause the pait con- comitantly injured to run into disease, although, without this influence, it should easily have returned to health. But this is not what I mean to allude to at present. The mere shock of diminution, by deranging the whole previous sympathies of the system, is capable, without any very evident additional cause, to occasion disorder and disease of other distant organs, which is generally of the excited or overacting kind. It seems to do so through the medium of the connexion of nerves with one another at their origin. The loss of an extremity cannot be altogether incapable of influencing the origin of the nerves which supplied it; and thus the medulla spinalis is brought into a state of increased excitement, and it again can, and we know readily does, act on the medulla oblongata, we may thus, without doing violence to the rules of physiology, account for a varied train of effects, arising sometimes sooner, some-