358 be. Calculations have been made of the comparative success of operations, but these are so contradictory to one another, and some of them so decidedly at variance with general experience, that we can derive but little assistance from them. For example, Dr. Monro says, that out of sixty cases ope- rated upon, only four remained free from relapse at the end of two years. Mr. Hill, on the other hand, tells us that out of eighty-eight operations, although some of the cases were very bad, only twelve had relapsed at the end of the same period. Mr. Nooth goes farther, informing us that 102 operations were all successful. SECTION TENTH. A disease considered by many as a superficial cancer, but not I think with sufficient grounds, is known under the name of lupus, or, noli me tangere. * It commences with a very small tumour, sometimes, indeed, so indistinct, that it has not been recognized until it had ended in abrasion. In other cases, however, it is not only very evident, but may even ac- quire the magnitude of a bean. The primary appearances are indeed so dissimilar, that, were it not for the character of the sore produced, being the same in all, we should be apt to consider them as distinct affections. It may, for example, begin with slight superficial inflammation, with scarcely any tumour. The surface forms, and throws off, a furfuracious scale of a brownish yellow colour, another is formed, and presently detached, and very soon a sore is discovered on the removal of the scale. Our not always detecting, in the first instance, a little tubercle, is no proof that it has not previously existed. In another case we find the progress somewhat different. In place of a scab we have the part growing more prominent and assuming a warty appearance. This excrescence is either accidentally knocked off, when a little crust forms over its site, and presently the wart is reproduced; or from some irri- tation and excitement around the base, the wart in like man- ner drops off, and is reproduced. In this case, then, the sore is preceded, not by a superficial red spot, with little tumour, ending in scab by exudation, but by a warty excrescence.