157 Chap. IV. LAMPS. ation of smoke. It is essential that the lower part of the flame should be a little below the aperture of the cap. It is to be observed that there is no current through the centre of the flame, as in Argand's lamp, yet the flame is exceedingly bright. Lamps on this construction, with simple wicks, give no smoke when the best oil is bui-ned, and very little with common oil; they are very economical and agreeable when used in many situ- ations, as in a liall or passage, or other places where the smoke and smell of a common lamp would be objectionable. 705. But the advantage of this construction is greatest lohen applied to Argand's lamp. In the usual construction of this lamp, the ciu'rent of air on the outside of the wick is made to ascend nearly parallel to the surface of the flame, without being made to strike against it so much as in the solar lamp. The application of the deflector of the solar lamp to the flame of the Argand's lamp, produces, therefore, an increased brilliancy of the light. But a still greater advantage in the application of this principle is, that, by its means, the Ai-gand's lamp can be made to burn the coarse oils without either smoke or smell, equally with the best spermaceti oil. The price of the latter has lately advanced con- siderably ; and at the present time amounts to from six or eight to ten shillings per gallon : whereas the Southern whale oil, when purified, which answers equally well with this new lamp, is sold from three shillings to three and sixpence. The saving is therefore considerable when much oil is used ; it is true, the greater consumption Is to be considered, but even then the balance is in favour of the solar lamp, both as to economy and light. But to effect this combustion of the common fish oils, a peculiar kind of wide is neces- sary : it must be more loosely woven than those which are employed for the common Argand's lamp, and somewhat larger ; the wicks, as formerly made, -would very soon become clogged ; the tubes also containing the new wick must be made on purpose for it, and this may be added to the old stem, or other supports of the lamp ; an alteration which generally costs from fifteen to twenty-five shillings for each light. By this means any of the ordinai-y lamps, as the French, or others, may be made to burn the coarse oils. The present high price of sperm oil has given rise to numerous inventions in lamps, to enable them to burn the common fish oils, or the vegetable oils ; and these have led to some permanent improvements. The most usual form in which this improvement of the Argand's lamp has been exe- cuted in what is termed the vase solar lamp, of which A, Jig. 135. shows the upper part, and which may be added to any stem of the former lamps : a is the reservoir for holding the oil,-6 IS the cap witli the deflector, and the ring, c c, holding the ground glass shade, hts on the edge of the reservoir a. B, fig. 135., shows the deflector on a large scale. 1 he air enters through the apertures, dd, goes towards the flame of the circular wick in the direction of the arrows, and impinges on the flame atcc, the current within the circu- lar wick being, as usual, at/