480 ON FOOD. Book VIL 2597. The egg plant (SoJanum esculentum, Linn.) is allied to the last, and, though not uncommon in our greenhouses, is seldom employed in this country as an article of cookery ; it has less flavour than the love apple ; but it is more employed on tlie Con- tinent, and in warmer latitudes, where its growth is attended with less trouble; it enters into stews and soups, and it is eaten as fritters sliced and fried with oil or butter ; it then forms a pleasant variety of esculent. Sect. XIV. EDIBLE PLANTS GROWING VyiLD IN ENGLAND ; MANY OF -WnlCII WERE USED FORMERLY, BUT AVHICH ARE NOW NEGLECTED, OR LITTLE KNOWN. ' 2598. In countries where the art of cultivating vegetables has made little progress, a variety of wild plants are used as food. The Laplanders make a preparation for wmte'r's store by boiling a species of wild sorrel till it is reduced to a pulp, and then mixing it with milk; this they put into barrels, and preserve it in pits dug in the ground. They like- wise boil the yellow wolf's bane {Aconitum lycostonum) for the table, a plant which, m its raw state, is considered as poisonous. The young leaves of pilewort are eaten by the Swedish peasantry. Dr. Clark informs us that the Don Cossacks eat, in the raw state, the lower part of the stem of the reed called the great cat's tail, frequent in English marshes. 2599. In the vegetable hingdom there are more instances than in the others, of substances either poisonous or highly deleterious. Nature appears to have distinguished, in general, those which are hurtful, by giving them a bitter, acrid, and disagreeable taste; and such as are proper for food are usually bland and agi-eeable ; nevertheless it would be ex- tremely unsafe to depend upon this as a guide in all cases. In many instances vegetables, naturally poisonous, as the cassava, are so altered by preparation, as to be rendered fit for human food. Although we possess no poisonous plants so virulent as are found in other countries, yet among the plants which grow wild in Britain there are several of a poisonous nature ; and it is very proper that they should be generally known, in order that they might be extirpated from the vicinity of our dwellings. In particular, children should be warned against eating berries or any vegetables thej' are not acquainted with. Formerly, many vegetables and leaves were eaten, which are now neglected from the superiority of others that have been introduced ; and before commerce and horticulture had enriched cookery with such a variety of spices and condiments, the homely dishes of our ancestors were seasoned with wild herbs and plants, many of which are now no longer used. 2600. The subject of edible wild herbs, Mr. Loudon observes, in his " Encyclopaedia of Gardening," is highly deserving the study of horticulturists, partly to increase their re- sources, and partly to induce such as have leisure to try how far these plants may be susceptible of improvement by cultivation ; but principally to enable the gentleman's gardener to point out resources to the poor in his neighbourhood, in seasons of scarcity. All vegetables, not absolutely poisonous, may be rendered edible by proper preparation. Many sorts, for example, are disagreeable. from their bitter and acrid taste ; but this might be in a great degree removed by maceration in cold or hot water. The vegetable matter once reduced to a state of insipidity, it is easy to give it taste and flavour, by adding salt of some sort, which is an article never scarce through the influence of bad seasons ; or by vinegar, or oils ; by the addition of other vegetables of agreeable tastes and flavours, as of thyme, mint, celery seed, onions, &c., or by the addition of roasted carrot, parsnep, potato, or dandelioTi roots, or of beans, peas, or wheat, or, if it can be had, of toasted bread, which will render almost any thing palatable. The leaves of trees and bushes, as the birch, beech, willow, and gooseberry, we are told, were formerly eaten as salads ; and there can be little doubt that aboriginal man would eat almost any green thing that came in his way. It may be worth while for man in his present multiplied and highly civilised state to reflect on these things, with a view to resources in times of famine, or in travelling, or in voyaging, or touching at, or settling in new or unculti- vated countries. The following description of edible wild plants growing in England is extracted from Loudon's " Encyclopaidia of Gardening:"— Plants that might he used as Greens and Pot Herbs. 2C0I. Black Bryant/ (Tinitis communis. Linn.)— A twining porpnnial, growing in hedgps. and commonly considered .is a poisonous plant; the young leaves and tops are eaten by the country people in spring. 26(12. Bantock {Arctium Cappa, Linn.). — A well-known perennial, the tender stalks of which many people cat boiled. ■, .r.. 2fi0:). Charlock (Sinapts arvrnsis. Linn.). — A common annual weed m corn fields. The young plant Is eaten in the spring .is turnip tops, .md is considered not inferior to that veget.ible. The seeds of this h.ive sometimes been sold for feeding birds instead of rape; but, being hot in its n,iture, it often renders them diseased. , ,, j 2(i04. Chickweed ( Alsine media, Linn.). — This common garden weed is said to be a remarkably good pot lierb, boiled in the spring.