RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. 914 SuBSECT. 4.— Creams and Custards. 5284. Cream for tarts. — Mix together half a pint of cream and the same quantity of milk ; put into it a piece of fresh lemon or Seville orange peel, a little cinnamon, and sweeten it -with loaf sugar. Let them boil about ten minutes. Have ready prepared in another pan the yolks of six eggs, well beaten up with a heaped tea-spoonful of fine flour; to these gradually strain the boiled ingredients, and whisk them well together over a gentle fire, so that they may acquire the proper consistence without curdling. If you are deficient of cream, milk only may be employed, but in that case a little more flour will be required. When cold, it may be distributed over tartlets or pies. 5285. Cream another way— Take a pint of cream mixed togetlier in equal proportions, as in tlic last receipt; boil it with some lemon-peel and cinnamon, and sweeten it to the. pala(e ; beat up (he yolks ol eight eggs with a table-spoonful of rose or orange flower water and a little salt. Mix tliese with the boiled cream when strained, set tlie whole on the fire, and keep constantly stirring with a wooden spoon. When the cream has acquired the proper consistence, lay it on a hair sieve to drain. 5286. Cold custards.—Pound to a fine paste two ounces of blanched Jordan almonds with half a dozen of the bitter ones and two ounces of loaf sugar; moisten with a little milk, and add a few grains of salt. When it becomes of the consistence of a thick cream, take it out and beat it up with the yolks of eight eggs; then gradually add a pint of half milk and cream. Set this on a very gentle fire with a couple of bay leaves, and continue to stir it till it acquires the proper consistence, when it is to be removed immediately and distributed into glasses. Some persons, on the supposition that they are unwholesome, omit the bitter almonds and bay leaves, and substitute the perfumes of rose or orange flower waters, or a little vanilla. 5287. Blancmange. — Simmer together a quart of half of cream and half new milk with some cinnamon, a few coriander seeds bruised, sufficient sugar, and a bay leaf; to these add an ounce of picked isinglass, and when it is dissolved, strain the mixture. Set it by to cool, and if any film arise on the surface skim it off. When nearly cold pour it into the moulds. To dissolve isinglass. — This substance is indispensably necessary for jellies, ices, creams, and a Tariety of other preparations of dessert. I<et the isinglass be of the best quality, and properly beaten ; of this put a quarter of a pound into a pint of water moderately warm, and let it continue covered, in a heat below boiling, stirring occasionally till it is dissolved. This will be a very firm jelly, and will readily dissolve in any warm fluid. The confectioners who employ ice in their jellies prepare a weaker solution, by adding four ounces of the isinglass to six pints of water, which they reduce by boiling to two quarts ; it is then strained. 5288. Syllabub. — Whisk well together a quart of cream, two glasses of French brandy, a pint and a half of sherry, with a table-spoonful of strained lemon-juice, and sufiicient powdered loaf sugar to render it agreeably sweet. As the froth is produced, collect it with a spoon and lay it on a sieve to drain ; continue to whisk it till no more froth is produced. To the remaining liquor grate some nutmeg, fill the glasses half full with it, and at the top add an equal portion of the fi'oth. 5289. Trifle.—This is a compound of syllabub and sweet meats. Line the bottom of a glass trifle dish with sponge biscuits stuck with blanched almonds ; moisten them with sweet wine, or with sherry and sugar. Over these lay a dozen of ratafia cakes dipped in noyeau. Intersperse with these some thin slices of citron and orange-peel, and distribute over these pieces of apricot and raspberry jam with currant jelly. Pour over these a few spoonfuls of the liquor of the syllabub. The next layer should consist of tartlet cream (see " Tartlet Cream ") of about the thickness of an inch, over which grate some nutmeg, and strew a little powdered cinnamon, together with a small quantity of grated lemon-peel and some powdered loaf sugar. Lastly take the whipped froth from the sieve, and put it on the top as abundantly as the dish will contain. To give it a pleasing appearance strew variously coloured comfits over the froth. 5290. Gooseberry fool Stew a quart of green gooseberries with a little water till tender, and pass the pulp through a tamis. When nearly cold add the juice of a lemon, sweeten it with powdered loaf sugar, and dust in equally about two tea-spoonfuls of flour. In the meantime boil a pint of new milk with some beaten cinnamon, lemon-pee!, and bruised coriander seeds, till it becomes impregn.itcd with the flavour of the spices ; sweeten it to the palate ; then strain the milk, and mix it well with the yolks of four eggs he.iten up. Whisk'them over the fire to prevent curdling, and continue this till it begins to boil, when it is to be removed. When cold mix it with the pulp of the gooseberries, and grate some nutmeg on the top. The same method may be pursued with the pulps of ripe apricots, strawberries, and raspberries, always remem- bering to add the lemon-juice, which considerably improves the flavour. SunsECT. 5.—Jellies. 5291. Calves' feci jelly. — Take out the bones from the calves'feet, divide them into pieces, and throw them into warm water to soak out all the blood. After this wash them well in cold water, and put them into a stew-pan with sufficient water, that is, to four feet put five quarts of water; let them simmer gradually, and remove all froth and scum as it rises. When they are nearly dissolved, and the water reduced by boiling to half its quan- tity, which takes five or six hours, strain them hot through a fine silk sieve, and if any