HAP. V. SILK FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. 983 3 R 4 CHAP. V. SILK FABRICS FOE DRESS AND FURNITURE. Sect. I. HISTORICAL BEMARK8. 5788. Mankind must have been far advanced in civilisation and the observation of mature, before they discovered a material for clothing in the labours of a caterpillar, and ■ perceived that the little yellow ball which adhered to the leaf of the mulberry-tree could be unwound into slender filaments, and these made to form tissues of endless beauty and variety. China, one of those countries in which the arts of life have long arrived at a high degree of perfection, appears to have been the first to make use of silk. We are told that the empresses of that country, many ages ago, surrounded by their women, em- : ployed their leisure hours in the rearing of silkwonns, and in the weaving of silk tissues and ' veils; but numerous must have bisen the experiments and trials made, before the thick ' velvet, the stiff brocade, and the thin gauze could have been formed from this material. ! From China, or, as it was then called by the Greeks, the country of the Seres, this valu- ; able commodity was conveyed into India and Persia ; and after the conquest of that 1 empire by Alexander the Great, it was brought into Greece; from thence it was carried t to Rome, where, as we are informed by several histoi-ians, it was so rare and deemed of ;such value, as to be sold for its weight in gold. Vopiscus tells us that the Emperor . Aurelian, who died A. D. 275, refused the empress a suit of silk, on account of its high I price, although she solicited it with much earnestness. For several centuries the Persian 1 merchants supplied the Roman empire with silk, which was brought over-land from ' China, by means of caravans that traversed the vast continent of Asia in 243 days. It is i said, indeed, that at that time the raw material was brought from China and woven in I manufactories established in Persia, Tyre, and other places of the East. But, notwithstanding an immense trade in this substance, which was for a series of ages I carried on between the Roman and Persian empires, and after the seat of the former was 1 transferred to Constantinople, the nature of the silkworm and the manner in which the : silk was produced remained secret with the Chinese, and was entirely unknown in Europe I until the reign of Justinian, A. D. 555. At this time, two Persian monks, who were em- ployed as missionaries in some of the Christian churches already established in India, penetrated into China, where they observed the labours of the silkworm, and became ; acquainted with the art of working its productions into a variety of elegant fabrics. On their return to Constantinople, they were encouraged by the Emperor to undertake a se- ' cond journey for the purpose of procuring these wonderful insects themselves. This they effected by conveying, in a hollow cane, a quantity of the eggs, which were afterwards hatched; and it is remarkable that these became the progenitors of all the generations of silk worms since reared in Europe and the western parts of Asia. Manufactories of silk were soon afterwards established, not only at Constantinople, but at Athens, Thebes, Corinth, and other parts of Greece; and for six hundred years these were confined to the territories of the Greeks. Its first diffusion was the consequence of the invasion of Greece by Roger I., king of Sicily, who carried a number of silk-weavers to Palermo; and the silks of Sicily are described as having been of great excellence. The Venetians, afterwards, in consequence of their commerce with the Greek empire, supplied all the west of Europe for several centuries. By degrees this manufacture was introduced into Italy, Spain, and France. In 1521, the French, under Francis I., being supplied with silkworms and workpeople from Milan, began a silk manufacture at Lyons, which has flourished ever since that time, and the demand for Eastern silk has diminished in consequence. In Spain, the culture and manufacture of silk was introduced at an early period by the Moors; and it was there that silk knit stockings were invented, whence they were brought over to Henry VIH. 5789. The use of silk in dress was extensively adopted in England by the wealthy soon after the Norman conquest, but was then confined to occasions of ceremony. The destruction of the city of Antwerp in 1583, by the Duke of Parma, drove a third part of the silk- weavers to England, and they laid the foundation of the art in this country. Another political event, the revocation of the edict of Nantes in 1685, produced a similar effect, and the Spitalfields silk-weavers date from that time. But it was the introduction of the throwing machine by Sir Thomas Lombe that completely established the silk-weaving in the British dominions. 5790. Great hopes were at one time entertained that native silk could he produced in England; but though the silkworm works very well in this climate, and may be reared