BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 664 nearly to the boiling point, wlilcli Is hest accomplished by putting the bottlos containing it In a saucepan of water, ami causnig tlie water to boil for about a quarter of an hour ; when tills has been done, remove the buttles, and when quite cold, cork them. Earthenware bottles are much lesb liable to crack during this oro. cess than glass bottles. ' 3747. The aromatic vinegar of the apothecaries is a preparation possessing an agreeable pungent scent or fragrant odour, that renders it peculiarly grateful and refreshing in crowded rooms, and the apartments of the sick ; and it affords relief in head-aches, faint- ing fits, &c.; but its anti-epidemic qualities are only imaginary. It is said to be pre- pared by taking rosemai7 tops dried, and sage leaves dried, of each four ounces ; lavender flowers dried, two ounces ; bruised cloves, two drachms; distilled vinegar, eight pounds; macerating these ingredients for seven days, and filtering the expressed liquor through paper. Some add camphor. What is met with in the shops, mider the name of " salts of vinegar," is nothing but sulphate of potash put up in small phials, and impreg- nated with acetic acid, made aromatic with oil of rosemary or lavender. Sdbsect, 5. — Preservation and purifying of Vinegar. 3748. Tlie preservation of vinegar is an object of consideration. In the way in which it is usually manufactured, it contains a considerable quantity of mucilaginous matters in addition to the acetic acid which has been formed; these are liable to further change, and they pass at length into the putrid fermentation. If vinegar be long kept, and particularly if it be exposed to the air, it will become muddy and ropy, acquiring an unpleasant smell, losing its acidity, and putrefying. This last stage depends upon the same cause as the first, the presence of gluten, or some other substance that acts as a ferment. 37"ig. The methods of preserving vinegar are well described in one of Scheele's essays : " It is a fact generally known, that vinegar, of whatever kind, will not keep long, but in the course of a few weeks, especially in the warm temperature of summer, grows turbid ; its surface is then covered with a thick, muci- laginous substance, during which time the acid disappears by degrees, and at last is entirely lost; whence the vinegar must very often be thrown aw^ay. Now, in order to avoid this spoiling of the vinegar, five methods are known. The first is to prepare the vinegar very strong and sour at first, by using more sugar or other materials. It is well known that such vinegar will keep for several years; but as few peojile prepare their own vineg.ar, most persons contenting themselves with buying it at the shops, there are of course but few who can make use of this method. The second method is, to concentrate the vinegar by freezing ; after which a hole is made in the crust of ice which covers it, through which the part that is not congealed is let out, and afterwards put into bottles. This manipulation answers well enough ; but nearly one-half being lost, because that which forms the crust of ice is nothing for the most part but water, good economists dislike it. The tliird method is, to prevent the access of air, by filling the bottles full, and keeping them corked. Though vinegar is kept long by this method, it is not much employed, prob ibly because it is troublesome to fill lip the bottle with clear vinegar from another bottle every time you have made use of part of its contents. The fourth method is to distil the vinegar, and thus leave behind the impurities. Distilled vinegar does not siifler the least change, though exposed to a warm air for years; but the expense of distilling is often thought too much." 3750. The following method of purifying vinegar is the easiest, and answers sufficientiy : — Put the vinegar into a well-tinned vessel, and make it boil for a minute over a strong fire, or the vinegar may be put into bottles, and then into a kettle of water upon the fire, and boiled ; this will coagulate the glutinous and mucilaginous matter which all vinegar contains, and this may be separated by straining; after which the clear liquid should be kept in well-corked bottles. Vinegar prepared in this way keeps long without spoiling, and should be so treated, when intended for pickling vegetables. 3751. To render pickling vinegar colourless, which is necessary for some kinds of pickles, stir together one gallon of the best pickling vinegar, and si-x ounces of bone black (animal charcoal), and let the mixture stand at rest for two or three days; then decant off the clear vinegar. 3752. If a vinegar he required of an extraordinary degree of strength, a greater quantity of saccharine matter may be used in the first or vinous fermentation ; but this will require longer time to acetify, and there are some peculiar difficulties in the process where much sngar is employed, which require considerable scientific skill; and still there is a great chance of failure. Vinegar and water also cannot be separated from each other by common distillation. To concentrate vinegar therefore, after it is made, or to obtain a verj- strong vinegar by an easy process, has been a desideratum. One method of strengthening it is to dissolve some sugar in it, which, by its decomposition, changes into vinegar; for after some weeks, the taste of the sugar has disappeared and the strength of the vinegar has increased. The sugar must be added by little at a time, and the w armth of the place should be kept up; one of the advantages of wood vinegar is the great strength of which it may be had. See " Wood Vinegar." 3753. Vinegar may he freed from most of its impurities hy distiUaiion ; the acetic acid, which forms the basis of vinegar, is very volatile. When vinegar is distilled till about two-thirds, or rather more, has passed over, nearly all the impurities are left behind as empyreumatic matter, remaining in the still ; and the product of (he distillation is acetic acid, almost quite pure, but diluted with water, which has come over with it. This is called Distilled vinegar.