Chap. IV. PRESERVATION OF FOOD AND VEGETABLES. 801 I to the -wants of private families, and such as they might easily put in practice, than to I enter into all the details of the business of a professed confectioner. Numerous receipts 1 for preserving and for preparing sweet dishes of various kinds which are usually brought I to table, or appear at the dessert, -will be found in Book XV. Chap. III. 4592. Confections, or substances preserved by sugar, may be divided into — 1. Liquid I confects, or fruits either whole or in pieces, preserved by being immersed in a fluid I transparent sp-up, as the liquid confects of apricots, green citrons, and many foreign t fruits. 2. Dry confects are those which, after having been boiled in the syrup, are taken out : and put to dry in an oven, as citron and orange peel, &c. 3. Marmalade, jams, and pastes, a kind of soft compounds made of the pulp of fruits or other vegetable substances, beat I up with sugar or honey, such as oranges, apricots, pears, &c. 4. Jellies are the juices of ffruits boiled with sugar to a pretty thick consistence, so as upon cooling to fonn a trembling j jelly, as currant, gooseberry, apple jelly, &c. 5. Cojtservcs are a kind of dry confects made Iby beating up flowers, fruits, &c. with sugar not dissolved. 6. Candies are fruits candied cover with sugar after having been boiled in the syrup. Sect. VIII. PRESERVING FRUITS AND VEGETABLES BY MEANS OF SYBtTP. 4593. Although sugar passes so easily into the state of fermentation, and is, in fact, the conly substance, as we have stated, capable of undergoing the vinous stage of that process, jyet it will not ferment readily except it be dissolved in a sufficient quantity of water; aand it will not ferment at all if the quantity be sufficient to constitute a very strong syrup : lihence syrups are used to preserve fruits and other vegetable substances from the changes tthey would undergo if left to themselves. A great number of fruits may be preserved in their natural state, in a fluid trans- [iparent syrup of a proper consistence, that penetrates into every part of the fruit. The umethod of effecting this requires considerable care ; for if the solution of sugar is too nveak, in consequence of its tendency to ferment, it will quickly become sour if kept in a (temperate degree of heat: such a solution, therefore, is not calculated to prevent the iinatural fermentation of vegetable juices ; and if the syrup be too much concentrated, the ssugar crystallises, and thus spoils the fruit. 4594. Proper strength of syrup. — It has been ascertained that a solution of sugar pre- rpared by dissolving two parts of double-refined sugar in one of water, and boiling this a Jittle, affords a syrup of the right degree of strength, and which neither ferments nor ocrystallises. This appears to be the degree called smooth by the confectioners, and is 1 proper to be used for the purposes of preserving fruits. 4595. The syrup employed should sometimes be clarified, which is done in the following nmanner. Dissolve two pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water ; add to this solution the ^■white of an egg, and beat them well. Put the preserving pan upon the fire with the > iolution; stir it with a wooden spatula, and when it begins to swell and boil up, throw ; n some cold water, or a little oil, to damp the boiling; for as it rises suddenly, if it s;;hould boil over, it would take fire, being of a very inflammable nature. Let it boil up i^gain, then take it oft', and remove carefully the scum that has risen. Boil the solution aagain, throw in a little more cold water; remove the scum, and so on for three or four 1 times successively ; then strain it. It is considered to be sufficiently boiled when ' iome taken up in a spoon pours out like oil; and when a thin skin appears on blowing I upon the syrup, it is judged to be completely saturated. The heat when sufficiently wiled, and of the proper strength, is 221°. In this manner the syrup will become quite ransparent. It is scarcely necessary to say, that if a greater quantity of syrup is wanted, ihe proportions of sugar and water must still be the same. Instead of loaf sugar, some lave used only brown sugar, which they have clarified to do as well as refined sugar ')y mixing with the solution some pounded charcoal, which is boiled with the sugar : by ■ training repeatedly this black mixture, the charcoal is kept back, and the sugar becomes :olourless. 4596. In the confectioner's art there is a great nicety in proportioning the degree of 'lonccntration of the syrup very exactly to each particular case ; and they know this by igns, and express it by certain technical terms. But to distinguish these properly equires very great attention and considerable experience. The principal thing to be acquainted with is the fact, that in proportion as the syrup <5 longer boiled, its water will become evaporated, and its consistence will be thicker. 'Jreat care must be taken, in the management of the fire, that the syrup does not boil over, i .nd that the boiling is not carried to such an extent as to burn the sugar. 4597. H'r give tin: fotloviin^ dcarecs oj boilivfy l/ic sump, as (ifslinguislird In/the prqfcsscd cnnfrelioiicr; ! hough, pcrh.ips, such nicety is seldom attaincil in clomoBtlc pr.wtico. 'I'hc 1st degree Is called tlic^ l/ireari, ' 'hich is subdivided into the little and great thread. It'you dip the finger into the syrup and apply It to the humh, the tenacity of the syrup will, on separating thi: linger ami thumb, afford a thread which shortly •reaks; this is the Utile tlircad. If the threat!, from the greater tenuclty, and, consequently, greater strength .3 V