1236 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XX\a, enable them, however, to determine that they portend the advent of some dangerous dis- ease, for which It IS desirable as early as possible to procure medical aid. But before medical aid arrives, something can be done; there is great sickness and nausea; an eme- tic will often remove this, and give a temporary relief. Emetics are of great service ■ they give present relief, but they also mitigate the disease through all its succeedmg stages; that is to say, a fever which, from the violence of its early symptoms, threatened to be severt, after an emetic runs its course mildly. But then a difficulty arises : an emetic would be very useful in fever, but is the disease, to see which the medical man has been sent for, really fever ? May it not be some local inflammation with feverish symptoms, and in which an emetic may do harm ?. Un- doubtedly it may, but against this there is no remedy; the chances must be taken on both sides, and it may be said that even in local inflammation an emetic may be of ser- rice if there be much sickness. But even if there be a fever, there may exist certain symptoms which point out that emetics are improper. To two of these symptoms we shall shortly advert. First, Lf there be intense pain at the pit of the stomach, with heat, and a red tongue, proving inflam- mation to exist there, emetics may do more harm than good ; and, secondly, if there be extreme affection of the head, not merely headache, but high delirium or stupor, emetics should not be given without medical sanction. After the emetic has operated, the bowels should be opened ; to adults, 4 or 5 grains of calomel may be given, followed in an hour by a dose of tartrate of soda in senna tea. The further management of the case must be left to the medical attendant. Under the head, " Management of the Sick Room," we shall describe more fully the domestic treatment of a case of fever, and detail the symp- toms to be particularly attended to, and to be mentioned to the physician. SuBSECT. 3. — Erysipelas, 7267. This is also a febrile disease, but one of its essential characters is an inflamma- tion of the skin. The skin is red, and this redness rapidly spreads ; it is accompanied with swelling, of a variable amount, often very considerable. Wlien it attacks the face, the appearance of the patient is totally altered by the swelling; all the features are confused, the eyes are concealed, the expression distorted: the person would not be recognised by his nearest friends. With all this there is high fever, with quick full pulse, thirst, vomiting, violent shivering, constipation, and, at a later stage, and in certain forms of the complaint, sinking and exhaustion. The chief domestic treatment is to obey implicitly the medical directions, particularly as to the constant application of warm or cold lotions as may be recommended. The rags with which such lotions are applied must be constantly wetted ; if they are suffered every now and then to become dry, they not only lose their effect, but become positively hurt- ful. If erysipelas attack the head and face, it is a dangerous disease. Any approach to delirium or stupor, any anxiety as evidenced in the expressions, or any giddiness or faintness, should be looked out for, and should be instantly communicated to the medical man, as inflammation of certain parts within the skull may come on, and be with difiiculty restrained. One of the best topical applications in erysipelas is an acidulated solution of nitrate of silver, as employed by Dr. A. T. Thomson. The solution is made with a drachm of nitrate of silver, ten drops of nitric acid, and an ounce of distilled water. This is pen- cilled over the inflamed parts, extending at a little beyond them, and leaving it to dry. It blackens the skin at the time, but the cuticle exfoliates and leaves the surface healthy in a few days. ScBSECT. 4. — Injlammations of Lungs, Bowels, Eyes, 7268. This most important class of diseases cannot be described with any effect. Several inflammatory complaints, as croup, inflammation of brain in children, sore throat, &c. have been already mentioned. Cough, breathlessncss, expectoration, with high fever and anxiety, should arouse apprehension, and lead to the suspicion of in- flammation of lungs. No time should be lost in seeking medical aid. If with a short dry cough aiid breathlessncss, there be a sharp pain in the side, increased by movement, coughing, or a full breath, pleurisy may be apprehended, and should be at once attended to. If there be a constant pain over the bowels (abdomen), increased by pressing on them with the hand, and not coming on in paroxysms, inflammation may be present here also, and the assistance of a medical man in determining the case is necessary. In these cases, before the medical attendant arrives, there may be some good effected by opening the bowels. If the affection be in the chest, this may be done by calomel, (four, five, or more grains, according to age, strength, and sex), followed by castor oil. If the disorder be m the bowels, it is better to give castor oil alone, till calomel be sanctioned by the physi- cian. In all cases, also, mustard poultices, kept on for twenty minutes or half an ho.ur,