Book V. 228 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. geometrical figures have this advantage, that pieces may be let in -where parts are worn, ■which is more difficult in irregular patterns. It is also economical to have several of the carpets in the house of the same pattern, as those of bed-rooms, passages, &c., that one may mend another. 1071. The colour of carpets should be -well attended to ; and much taste is required to choose patterns and colours that are the most suitable for the apartments where they are to be put down. In this fashion will generally be followed; but it is veiy necessary to consider also the nature and use of the apartment, and style of the furniture. In the richest carpets, intended for the best apartments, the style is usually gay and splendid; for parlours, the Turkey and Persian patterns, having a richness of effect without any conspicuous or distinct figures, are preferred; and for sitting rooms and libraries, some- thing of a quiet, though not too dark character, is preferable. Carpets with only two colours are often very elegant; but they easily show any stains on them, and consequently do not wear so well as when there is a sprinkling of a few more colours intermixed, the spots of colour assisting to disguise those arising from stains. It should be observed, likewise, that some colours are more liable to fade than others. Those who would be thrifty should have their carpets mended with the needle in time when they begin to wear; and this may be done somewhat in the manner of embroider}', making use of proper coloured worsteds to make out the pattern: a precaution, however, which is seldom taken. 1072. Hearth rugs are to save the carpet near the fire, where it is most liable to be worn; and likewise to afford greater warmth and softness to the feet at that place. They vary much in style and price, and should be chosen to suit the carpet in colour and degree of richness ; but they are too well known to need particular description. Where economy is much an object, a piece of carpet of the same pattern as that of the room may be used, with some border sewed upon it. 1073. Door mats. These articles, used for wiping the dirt from the shoes, are made of various materials. Those placed in the entrance of the hall are of a coarser and rougher kind; others, of a finer sort, are placed at the foot of staircases, and at the entrance of apartments. A very coarse mat of German origin, called here the chain mat, is made of tarred rope, or of cocoa-nut iL\)ve,fig. 175., which is very durable, and calculated for places where much dirt is made: first a rope goes round the outside to form the boundary of the mat; and the same kind of rope fills up the interior in zig-zag lines, being fixed with cord in that position, or in any other pattern that may be suggested. As there are interstices between the ropes, the dirt falls down in the cavities, and when these are full the mat is easily cleaned by lifting Fig. 175. yp aud shaking. It is obvious that persons in the countrv who wish to be economical could easily construct mats upon this principle, either of old rope, plaited straw, or any similar material. 1074. The most serviceable coarse door mats are made of cocoa-nut fibre; a finer kind is made of the same with worsted-coloured borders, woven so as to have a brush-like appearance. A very cheap kind is likewise made of straw, or of a kind of tough grass. Fine mats to put before the doors of apartments are made of Indian grass, and are called grass mats; and a still finer kind, or rather rugs, are made of the skins of sheep with the wool on, dyed and prepared. Besides these, there are merino fringe mats, fancy and worsted mats, Lapland skin, &c. 1075. The skins of sheep andlamhs with the woolon are made into rugs by a patent process, which we shall describe as one that may be found useful in certain situations. The skins with the wool on are thoroughly cleansed from all impurities and foreign matter that may adhere to them by washing in running water, and by scraping the flesh side in the usual manner by the knife, and by cutting off all the extraneous and ragged parts, when they are ready to be tanned : for that purpose they are stretched upon frames, and laid upon trussels with the flesh side upwards : an infusion of sumach, in the proportion of one pound to a gallon of water, is then poured over the skin, and the tanning matter is worked into the pores of the skin by the aid of the knife. When dry, the reverse, or wool side of the skin, is next placed upwards, and thoroughly washed with a strong alkaline ley, or soap and water, and afterwards in clean water, by which means the grease and filth arc removed ; when dry, the skin undergoes a second operation of tanning with sumach, as before mentioned, and, after being dried, its harsh and rigid surface is rendered smooth and soft by rubbing it over with pumice stone. In order to dye it of any colour, before it is taken off the frame, its face or woolly part is dipped into a bath of the required tint prepared in the ordinary manner for dyeing wool; the washing must now again be repeated to get rid of the excess of colouring iimtter which adheres to it. The skins are then dried and trimmed to the proper shape.