1092 Book XXII, ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. by the ashes and coals, and require very careful wiping to prevent staining the linen To obviate this inconvenience, ironing stoves are constructed, by which the irons are heated without the possibility of their contracting any dirt. 6529. 77(6 best ironing stove is a recess in tJie wall like a small chimney, Jig. 828 , with a hot plate and furnace below it, in the same form as the hot plate described among the apparatus for the kitchen. Upon this hot plate the irons are set to be heated ; and there should be an air-flue above this plate to carry out the hot air and prevent its incommod- ing the laundry. Generally, however, the ironing stoves are detached, and stand in the laundry, and then answer the double purpose of warming the room and heating the irons. Fig. 820. is one of the smallest kind; it is all of iron ; the fire is contained in the box on which the smoothing-iron is placed, and of course there must be a pipe from the back to carry off the smoke into the chimney flue. 6530. Fig. 830, is a larger one to hold several irons all round. Fig. 831. is one still Pig. 830 larger for two rows of irons. Both these have registers to the ash-hole, to regulate the driiught; by merely closing these, the fire will keep in with very little consumption of fuel, particularly if anthracite be used. . , . ,. , . 6531. Joyce's apparatus for heating Italian irons, Jig. 832., is a sheet-iron cylinder withm another about four inches "wider, the inner one being filled with lighted charcoal, and the space between empty ; four cylindrical pieces of brass pass through this space, and enter into the fire chamber, by which means they are heated sufficiently. The fumes or dele- terious gas formed by the combustion of the charcoal, pass out through the tube a, seen in the apparatus, and when the cover, b, is put on, they issue through the holes in it. In contradiction to those who state that the fuel sold with this apparatus, is char- coal prepared in such a way as to prevent it from giving out an;, noxwus fumes, we must observe that the charcoal docs give out the same deleterious air (carbonic acid gas) as common charcoal ; and, therefore, this apparatus should never be employed where a brazier of charcoal would be considered as unhealthy; no method has ever been dis- covered of depriving charcoal of its noxious quality when burnmg; nor is it at all pro- bable that such discovery will ever be made. , , , j „ ,i,:c ™,rnn«n 65.32. The ironinq-hoard or table should be very strong and steady ; and for this purpose one end or side of it is generally placed against a wall. It should likewise be placed on