7.53 THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. Chap. III. in est.iblisliments on a very grcit scale, and ariaiited for the purpfjso, the apparatus being of a peculiar structure; it is tlierefore altogetlier iuappiic.ablu to dmnestie brrad-inaliing, and even to the business of the ordinary baker ; and we have said so mucli, more to illustrate what had boon called the ixiuary t'ermenta- tion than with any practical view. 4288. Tliere are two general modes of making fermented bread. The most ancient method was by talcing advantage of a spontaneous fermentation, which dough made from flour or meal undergoes when left to itself. The bread so produced is what is called leavened bread; and the origin of the name will easily appear from our account of the mode of its preparation. The other method, and that by which our ordinary wheaten bread is now always made, is the bringing on the fermentation of the dough by the addition of yeast. We shall first describe leavened bread, which will enable us best to perceive the advantages of the other method. Sect. III. LEAVENED BREAD. 4289. Fermenting bread h/ means of a leaven is an improvemerit upon the mere leaving a mass of dough to spontaneous fermentation, as mentioned above. If dough were left to ferment by itself without any addition, the elFect would be unequal, and would vary according to the proportion and condition of the several constituents of the flour. The saccharine part would be disposed to run into the vinous fermentation ; the mucilage would have a tendency to become sour, while the gluten would soon verge towards the putrid state. These changes would proceed with greater or less rapidity, as the several parts were on the outside, and exposed to the atmosphere, or whether they were iu the interior of the mass. Occasional mixture of the whole would cause these effects to be more uniform ; but still bread made in this manner would be imperfect. • 4290. Tlie great improvement by leavening consists in this; to produce the desired uniformity of fermentation, a piece of dough is kept in a warm place until it has under- gone the fermentation just described; then if this piece, now called a leaven, be well mixed up with a quantity of fresh dough, of which bread is to be made, it will communi- cate its fermentation to the whole mass, and every part will ferment with greater rapidity, equally, and at the same time, by which an uniformity will be produced that otherwise would not have happened. 4291. Bread fermented by means of leaven is now rarely used in England, and is confined to rye bread, or to a mixture of wheat and rye, called meslin in the north of England, where these two grains are sown together, and go through all the processes of reaping, threshing, and grinding in this mixed state. In some places of the north, oaten bread is occasionally fermented with leaven; yeast is said not to answer so well for it. 4292. It is always customary to reserve as a leaven for the next batch of bread, some of the dough when it is just in the state fit to be baked; and it is only in case of this being neglected, or that leaven is not to be procured, that recourse is had to making an original fermentation. As it is now the custom for one person always to get leaven from another, it is probable that the original ferment in any country might have been produced centuries ago. In the north of England a pound or more of leaven for the next baking is kept fit for use for weeks buried in a sack or cask of flour. In Italy it has been kept good in this manner for several months. The French keep it for a week in a warm place between two bowls, adding every day some flour and water; if they wish to keep it longer they dry it by a gentle heat, and when it is wanted, rub it down to a paste with warm water. 429.3. The producing of new leaven is a tedious pivcess, and it does not always answer so well as what has been kept from a former baking, being apt to run into putres- cence. It is made by working wheat flour with water into dough ; this is kept in a temperature of from 70°. to 80° : the time of its rising will vary considerably, from a few days to a fortnight. In this process the fermentation is at first of the vinous kind, as mentioned above ; it passes, however, very soon into the acetous ; and leaven is gene- rally distinguished by a slight acidity, which it gives to the bread. If very skilfully managed, however, bread made in this way is sometimes not inferior to that which is fer- mented with yeast, and some persons prefer it. Scarcely two centuries have passed since almost all the bread consumed by the labour- ing population in England was made of rye flour, either by itself or mixed with wheat. But though rye bread is now little used in Britain, it is still the only kind used among the peasantry in many parts of France, Germany, Norway, and other northern European countries, particularly in the sandy districts near the Baltic, where no other grain than rye can be cultivated. In Sweden it is universally used, wheaten bread being never seen except in the towns. They bake rye cakes only twice a-ycai; and consequently these become at length almost as hard as wood. 4294. To make rye bread, mix wheat and ryn flour together with water at a Wood heat: add to half of this a •niall bit of leaven, and after knc.iding tiic whole together very well, leave the dough in a warm place, covered 3 C