BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 538 Book VIII. sand and charcoal in the division b, and passes through an aperture into the tank or reservoir c, where it is preserved till raised by a pump, d. Tlie top of the tank is arched with brickwork, and has a man-hole to clean it by, covered with an oak flap with many holes bored in it for ventilation. 3019. Tanks easily and cheaply comlructed h.ive been lately formed at Eastbourne in Sussex. These have been eminently useful during the last dry summers ; they are not liable to decay like wooden vessels, and take up little room. These tanks vary in size ; one of less than seven feet wide has served tvo labourers' families for three years, while most of the springs in the neighbourhood were dry. A tank twelve by seven feet has been found suillcient to supply with water a large family and six horses ; this was surrounded by only four and a half inch brickwork, and covered in upon the Egyptian plan, by making each row project one-third of their length inwards before that below it, filling up tlie back with earth as the building was proceeded with, in order to balance the weight of this overhanging brickwork. At the Eastbourne workhouse, a tank has been made twenty-three feet deep by eleven wide, of the roughest materials, being only flints of the chalk ; and though they require more mortar than if they h.id been regularly shaped, only ninety bushels of lime were allowed, including two coats of plaster ; and the workmanship is executed like field walls at 10.5. per 100 square feet, taking care that no clay be used (as worms in time bore through it), and that the Parker's cement be good. A current of air is said to promote the purity of water in tanks, which is easily affected by the earthenware or other pipe which conveys the water from the roof being six or eight inches in diameter, with an opening left in the tank. When the prevailing winds do not blow leaves or soot on the roofs, the w.->ter will remain good, even for drinking, without clearing out the tanks above once a-year: but in some cases filtering by ascension has been found useful, and effected by the water being delivered by a pipe at the bottom of a cask or other vessel from which it cannot escape till it has risen through the holes in a board covered with pebbles, sand, or powdered charcoal, as described above. 3020. The use of such tanks is farther shown in converting the water that used formerly to injure a public road to the purpose of watering twenty labourers' gardens, by which good crops of potatoes were obtained when sets not watered failed. Tanks or ponds dug in the chalk four feet deep, what is excavated being added to the sides roofed over, have been found very valuable for the large flocks of sheep in the south downs : cis- terns built with brick and cement for preserving the rain water from roofs for domestic purposes are very common in the Ridings of Yorkshire. 3021. For cisterns on a small scale, for the rise of the house, slate is found to be excellent material. Welsh slate is sawn into thin slabs, and put together with cement, as in the annexed wood- cut, _^jr. 540. The ends a b are let into grooves in the sides c d, the latter being held and pressed together by the iron rods with screws and nuts. efg. The bottom is likewise fitted in a groove ; thus the whole is kept together in a manner ex- tremely simple. This kind of cistern is very durable, not being liable to get out of repair; and it has the advan- tage of not in any way affecting the water like lead. A waste-pipe is necessary, of course, as in every other cistern, for this purpose. As slate is liable to be broken by a heavy blow, it may be necessary, in some instances, to provide a wooden casing, or at least a front of wood. Cisterns of slate may be easily made with a partition, so as to filter all the water that is put into them in the manner already shown. 3022. Tlie common receptacles for water in small houses are ■wooden casks or butts, and these have often been previously used as beer or wine casks. All wood is apt to com- municate some unpleasant flavour or odour to the water, except they are charred inside, which they ought to be: and it is too commonly the case that they are left uncovered, and then the water is liable to be contaminated by various substances floating in the air, and by insects of various kinds. They should be frequently cleaned out, and kept care- fully covered. 3023. A ball-cock is an excellent contrivance, which allows the water to come into a cistern, but shuts of itself when the cistern is full; hence they are alwa3'S employed in the cisterns supplied by water companies. The plug of this cock is kept in by a screw or rivet in the usual manner; it has a copper rod fostened to it, to the other end of which a globular ball of this copper plate is soldered. This ball is so light as to float upon the water of the cistern, and, when it hangs down, the cock is open and the water comes in, but, as the water runs into the cistern, it raises the ball and shuts the cock, thus stopping the supply to prevent it from running over. Though this contrivance is very simple, it is sometimes apt to be out of order, and therefore should be frequently examined. 3024. Every cistern should also have a waste-pipe, which is a pipe fixed perpendicularly in the bottom of the cistern, having its upper orifice exactly at the level at which it is desired the water should be when the cistern is full. If by any accident the ball-cock should be out of order, or if there is no ball-cock, the superfluous water, that would otherwise overflow, will pass down the waste-pipe. SOa.") I'otids or rrservoirsfor coltcctina and preserving iiiatcr are frequently necessary for the use of cattle and <ilher purposes in rural and domestic economy, in places where there are no streams or lakes ; and these are usually dug out of the ground. It is not dillicult to make a pond in a clayey soil, as it is of iLvolf reten- tive of water • but in cases where the soil is of a loose and porous nature, much more care is necessary. It is found, however, that a coat of tough clay well beaten and rammed in, called puddling, is generally sufficient.