CABINET-MAKER AND UPHOLSTERER. 181 LChap. II. rreddish hue -when the wood is too light; but the effect of these ingredients is to darken aand to destroy the beautifully-variegated shades in good mahogany. Even -with the oil mlone, the wood will become darker than with wax, as in the last receipt: but after it has icome to its proper polish, it will change very little. This polish must not be used for rose- vwood, as it would render it too dark. 802. French polish. This most beautiful varnish for furniture derives its name from its hhaving been invented in France some years ago ; but it is now imiversally used in this ocountry. Although it may be applied by any one who wiU take the trouble of learning how tito use it, this is not necessary now, nor worth the while, since French polish has become a lidistinct trade ; and as it requires considerable practice to execute it properly, it is cheaper aand better to employ those who are already familiar with the process. We therefore give ithe receipt for it merely to explain its nature, without recommending any one to depend uupon themselves for its application. With a brilliancy superior to any other polish that ccan be given to furniture, it is not so easily scratched as the other polishes, and is not nmarked by hot things placed upon it; but wine destroys it, and any liquid containing sppirit, which dissolves the material of which the varnish is composed. Soap does not iiinjure it: it may be washed with soap and water, and therefore wash-stands may be vvamished with it. 803. Receipt for the French polish. To one pint of spirits of wine add \\ ounce of shell Uac, \ ounce of gum copal, and \ ounce of gum arabic : all the gums to be bruised. Keep ihhe vessel into which these are put well corked, and let it remain in a warm place for tv:wo or three days : then pour off the clear part into another bottle. To use it, place the ppiece of furniture under the eye in a good light. Make a rubber, by rolling up a piece I'bf fine cloth not very hard. Apply the polish to the end, covering the part with a piece i Df soft cotton rag that is free from lint: damp the rag with the best cold-drawn linseed oil in the smallest possible quantity, so that the polish may spread when rubbed. The jil may be applied to the rag with the end of a skewer, or some such instrument. Proceed •;o rub briskly, with a moderate pressure, in a circular direction, over a space equal to "about a square foot at a time, and replenish both as the wood dries. Go over the whole surface in this manner, and give three or four coats according to the grain of the wood. IThe operation must be performed in a place of moderate warmth. Gradually clear off the oil from the surface with the polish, and sometimes turn the rag, otherwise the brightness will not be perfect. Be careful in using a frequent succession of soft and clean ■ •■•ags, since on that depends, in a great measure, the clearness of the polish. If too much )il be used in the operation, which is apt to be the case from the difficulty of spreading he varnish, the work is, after some time, liable to assume a bluish dulness, a fault which nay be remedied by using the following preparation. The ingredients are, rectified spirits of wine, half a pint; shell lac, two drachms; -)enzotn, two drachms : put these in a bottle, and keep them in a warm place till dissolved. IThen having let the mixture stand till it is cold, add two spoonsful of the best linseed oil; hhake it well, and it will be fit for use. The application may be made according to the \bove directions, only observing that a fine soft muslin rag made into a wad is preferable 0 cloth. The fluid must be well shaken while in use. 804. A cement proper for filling vp holes in mahogany may be made by grinding upon a tone, with oil of turpentine, some red lead or Venetian red, Spanish brown, a little lake nd yellow, so as to match the colour of the mahogany : this must be made as thick as laste : then take as much turpentine varnish as will barely soften it, and apply it to the avity : in a day or two it will bear polishing like the wood. 805. Glue, a common substance for cementing, is made of skins, and other gelatinous arts of animals, boiled to a thick jelly, and then formed into a solid mass by spreading ; out in thin layers upon a net, and drying it until it is quite hard, in which state it is sold, "o use it, broken pieces should be soaked for some hours in water, which softens it, and ccasions it to swell; some more water is then added to it in a glue-pot, and it is kept on ae fire till it is melted. The strength must be judged of by observing how it falls from le glue brush. A lesson from a joiner will best teach its use, and a glue-^Jot is very andy in a family. Jejjerei/s patent marine glue is a cement not affected by moisture. I 80G. Size is sold in the shops ready for use, and is only a weaker kind of ghie : the , ;lly, indeed, without having been hardened ; but it is generally made of better materials. , t is dissolved by putting it into a pipkin over the fire. It is employed to mix with ■ istemper colours or whitewash, to prevent their rubbing off, and for similar purposes. ( i: i •i