458 Book VII. ON FOOD, liable to run into varieties, and some of these have probably been cultivated in other countries from the earliest times. 2421. The cabbage wa^ Imoton to the Romans, and was with them a favourite vegetable. Columella informs us that it was produced in sufficient quantity to be used abundantly as an article of food by all classes of people ; and as it was a principle with the Romans to carry the arts of civilisation into those countries which they conquered, several fruits and culinary vegetables found their way, through this source, into Germany, Gaul, and Britain. Much also is probably due to the earliest monastic institutions. It is not accu- rately known, however, at what time the cabbage was introduced into this island, but it waa supposed to have been cultivated here pretty generally in the times of the Saxon heptar- chy, the Saxon term for this vegetable being hale, a name by which it is still known in Scotland. The close-hearted variety was for many years brought from Holland, and Ben Jonson speaks of this being the case in his time. It is said that cabbages were first introduced into the north of Scotland by the soldiers of Cromwell, though some refer their being planted there to an earlier date : for a long time they were the only garden vegetable in the northern parts of that country. From the abundance, cheapness, and wholesomeness of this plant, it appears to be the most useful of all the culinary vegetables ; and so many are the varieties, that one or other is procurable at every season of the year. 2422. The cabbage tribe putrefy very quichbj, and in decomposing give out a very offen- sive odour, owing, it is supposed, to their containing a small portion of nitrogen, in addition to the usual constituents of vegetables. Decayed cabbage leaves should there- fore never be suffered to lie about in the vicinity of dwellings, and the water in which this vegetable has been boiled should not be retained on the premises, but be passed oflf into the drains. 2423. Cabbages are found in general to he wholesome and nutritive, and to supply a valu- able mixture with animal food; but with some constitutions, particularly those who are dyspeptic, they are occasionally indigestible, and productive of flatulency. Dr. Paris is of opinion that they contain an essential oil which is apt to produce bad effects, and he recommends that they should be boUed in two successive waters till they are soft and digestible. But they may be boiled too much, as well as not enough : in the former case, when soft water is used, much of their nutritive properties are extracted, and are lost in the water. 2424. 77(6 varieties of cabbages are divided into, 1. the various sorts of Borecoles or Kales ; 2. the headed Cabbages; 3. the several kinds of Cauliflowers and Broccoli. SuBSECT. 2.—Borecoles, or Kales (Brassica oleracea, Linn. Division 1, acephala). 2425. The character of these is to have the leaves loose, and not formed into a close round head, and their leaves are generally curled or wrinkled. They resemble most the original wild plant. They form an excellent vegetable for the table, and being extremely hardy, are considered by many as the best winter greens, and most to be depended upon. They have been particularly recommended for cottage gardens. In an experiment tried to blanch them, they were found to be much improved. They are not in the least injured by frost. There are several varieties of borecole; one variety well known in London, and in almost every garden in Britain, is the Scotch kale, which in Scotland is known by the name of German kale or curlies, or curly gi'eens. * Some other varieties are more rare, as Buda and Russian kale. The former is a low and rather delicate plant, which is excellent for the table when blanched : the sprouts are preferable to the heart. It is from the seeds of a variety of kale that the Colza oil, so much used in France for burning in lamps, is procured by expression. 2426. The Couve Tronchuda {Brassica costata) or Portuguese cabbage, from Tranxuda, Portugal, is much cultivated on the Continent, and was introduced here in 1821 ; it is grown chiefly for the midribs of the outward large leaves, which, when divested of their green parts, and well boiled, make a good dish, somewhat resembling sea-kale. The heart or middle part of the plant is, however, the best for use; it is peculiarly delicate, tender, and agreeably flavoured, without any of the coarseness which often belongs to the cabbage tribe. 2427. The palm kale, and the true hale, or Cccsarean cow-cabbage, are both arborescent varieties of brassica; the first growing to the height of ten or twelve feet, and the latter said even to reach to sixteen feet in La Vendee; their stems are simple, and crowned with tufts of leaves, therefore something resembling the palms in part The heart of the bud is tender and palatable; the outer leaves are given as fodder to cattle, for which purpose the plant is cultivated extensively in Jersey, and the other Anglo-Norman isles. 2428. Sea kale, notwithstanding its name, does not belong to this class of plants, but to the asparagus tribe ; its description will be found with them. * Some consider another v.nricty, tlie purple or brown k.ilc, ns quilc equal, if not superior. Tlic Siberian .-uid tlic dwurf borecole arc also CNCcllcnt.