Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES 78 Germany, brick stoves are universal ; they are generally made to project in the room somewliat like a chest of drawers, cabinet, or side board, and the door for the fire is sometimes in an adjoining room. Wood is kindled in them; and when this has burnt so far that the smoke has ceased and the brickwork is heated, the damper in the flue and register of the ash-pit are nearly closed, so that the combustion of the remaining charcoal goes on extremely slow, and the heat of the stove is retained during the day. In the severe climate of the north of Europe, no other method would render the Louses sufficiently ■warm ; necessity therefore obliges the inhabitants to adopt this mode, in spite of any disadvantages it may possess. In all countries, also, when fuel is very expensive, the most economical means of using it have been resorted to, though sometimes not the most desirable on the score of health. In France, where open chimneys are likewise much used, stoves are employed through economy ; but they are generally made of earthy materials, as brick, tiles, and ornamental earthenware, and are therefore not liable to the same objection as iron. In this coiintr}^ it is remarkable that stoves of brick and earth- enware have been seldom tried ; and we have been contented with open fires, which cer- tainly consume much fuel; or we have manufactured stoves only of iron, a material which we have in such abundance. 352. Although close stoves certainly afford the most economical means with respect to fuel, as well as the most effectual way of warming Hie interior of dwellings; yet tJiey are liable to this serious 'objection, that with them it is difficult to change the air in apartments, or. in other words, to procure that ventilation so essential to health. When the door of the fire is in another room, and the windows and doors of the apartment made tight, as is found necessary in very cold countries, there can be very little change of the air in the room, and consequently the inhabitants must live in an atmosphere vitiated by a mixtui-e of the portion that has been exhaled. This evil perhaps, great as it is, may not in these countries be so great as that of excessive cold ; but that it is an evil, it requires but a little knowledge of the subject of physiology to be convinced of. In coimtries where the climate is more temperate and fuel more abundant, and where, of course, the inhabitants are not compelled to resort to so unhealthy a mode, it does not appear judicious to employ it, except the means of perfect ventilation can be Ultewise provided. But this is by no means easy with close stoves, for even when the door of the fire-place is in the apartment, and of course the supply of air to the fire is taken from that in the room, and replaced by fresh air from without by some method or other; yet this is in general no more than the fire itself requires, and does not make up for what is also destroyed by respiration. With a close stove, therefore, whatever may be the construction of it, there is usually an accumulation in the apartihent, more or less, according to circumstances, of gases and effluvia unwhole- some to breathe. With respect to the best modes of getting rid of these as much as possible, we refer the reader to Book III., " on Ventilation." We may just observe in this place, that the foul air, which, being warmest, is at the top of the room, may in general be made to escape by keeping the upper sash open an inch or two. But this will not act except the ingress of as much cold air be provided for somewhere at the lower part of the room: if this be not done, the air will come in at the top sash, to supply the stove, instead of going out. The chief difficulty here is to contrive the ingress of cold air so that it may not incom- mode. This is best effected, perhaps, by numerous small apertures in places where they will be least inconvenient, and by preventing the stream of air from coming in directly, but turning it aside by some methods which must vary according to circumstances. 353. It would be unnecessary to inform those who have read with attention what we have said on heat and combustion, namely, that all stoves which profess to heat apartments without a flue, must be in the highest degree perniciotts, and even dangerous; since it is quite impossible that combustion can go on without generating noxious gases, a circum- stance well known to every one who has the slightest acquaintance with chemical science. No method has ever been discovered, nor is likely to be found out, of preventing this pernicious effect; and the consequence of putting a stove of any kind into an apartment without a flue to carry off these deleterious gases, whether the stove be fed with common charcoal, with charcoal prepared in any known way whatever, or with gas of any kind, will inevitably be, that the air of the room will become contaminated with invisible effluvia destructive to health, and sometimes suddenly fatal. This is so certain, that we trust no one will ever permit themselves to believe that discoveries are made of modes of combustion without the production of poisonous gases. We might connect these observations with a description of Joi/ce's stove which warms an apartment without a flue to can-y off the fumes of the charcoal bui-ned in it; but except the public shiill become instructed in so much science as to be able to judge for itself on this subject, no pointing out of individuals will be of much avail, since one quack, irai)ostor, or ignorant mechanic, will be succeeded by another. It is on this account we are desirous that the study of principles should be attended to, instead of mere receipts. 354. Iron stoves are frequently made with flues to descend behw the level of the floor, for tlie purpose of getting rid of tiie smoke without the inconvenience of a pipe crossing the