il\p. I. DUTIES OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 335 Alter replacing or putting away evcrytliing wliich liad been used, she next directs her attention to the state r the wardrobe; occupying herself in malting new, or in repairing any old articles of apparel, until her lady .^ain requires her atteiulance, either in preparing herself for riding, walking, or in dressing for dinner. At night Jsoshe arranges everything for the retiring, as she had in the morning done for the rising, of her lady. A lady's : laid needs possess, it is evident, very diilerent qualifications and attainments from those of any other memlier rthe establishment. Hertaslc in dress should be cultivated, or she will be unable to judge ni the dressing- >)om, of the effect whicli the tout ensemble of her lady's costume will have in the drawing-room. She should jquire a knowledge of the most agreeable combinations of colours, and of the effect these produce on diffe- -nu complexions. If she have also a ready perception ofthe proper set (to use atechnical expression) of each -art of a lady's attire, and have the art of giving this effect or air, to the dress of her employer, she may be r-'garded as a skilful tire-woman. It is this art which gives more style and elegance to dress than the costliness : f the materials : it is the finishing stroke, without which the chefs-d'oeuvre of the dress-maker and milliner, ■ould be incomplete ; for the proper set in dress is usually more apparent in a Frenchwoman than in that : ' an Englishwoman, and thence the more frequent admiration of the dress of the one than of the other. 1544. The use and mode of applying rouge and cosmetics should also be understood by the lady's maid. : 1545. hi applying cosmetics, it is requisite that every lady's maid, as well as every lady, should know how far Mey are innocent or injurious. Ignorance ofthe nature of these external applications may be fatal, both to the implexion they are intended to improve, and to the health, the state of which has more effect upon the skin ' jan any cosmetic whatever. It is probable that there are many situations as lady's maid, in which the use : ' cosmetics and rouge is unknown ; but whenever they are employed, the knowledge here recommended t lould be acquired. (See " Business of the Toilet," Book XIX.) : 154G. In hair-dressing the lady's maid should be skilful and ready in perceiving every variation of style hhich fashion may cause ; these she should be able to adapt and render becoming to the countenance of srlady. 1547. The charge of the wardrobe requires that in dress-making and millinery she should <e a proficient; although her skill in these arts cannot he supposed to he equal to that of the rfofessed milliner and dress-maker, because her opportunities of studying fashion cannot (Sar any proportion to theirs. As a sempstress, expertness both in making and repairing nnen will be expected from her ; and she should consider that the contents of the wardrobe I sing under her care, she ought to be capable of using her needle in whatever way the ifi'erent articles in it may require. Clear-starching, getting up laces and nets, washing lauzes, crapes, and silk stockings, removing stains of fruit, or soils from silks, preserving iitrs, wooUens, and other winter clothing from moths, all belong to the duties of the lady's i.iaid. (SeeUook XXII., "Laundry.") Nor must she neglect to note the quantity of linen ';nt to and returned from the laundry, nor to make occasional comparisons of the con- nnts of the wardrobe, with the inventory given to her on her entering the service of her ildy. Sliould she be the attendant of an elderly or infirm lady, it may be requisite for her to be bble to read aloud agreeably, and to write neatly, acquirements which may be easily gained i ith dUigence and attention. SuBSECT. 3. — Upper and Under Nurse Maids, 1548. An upper nurse, where there is an infant, takes entire charge of it, washes, resses, feeds it, carries it out of doors, and when in the house, only gives it to others to urse when her other duties call her away from it; the other children in the nursery ■e all under her superintendence as well as the subordinate assistants. These last, it is ;quisite, should be under her direction and control. ■An upper nurse is always expected ta live entirely with the children entrusted to her ; that is, to have fr;r meals in the same room with them after they have finished. Once or twice a week, if the children are fell, and all asleep, she is usually permitted to sup in the housekeeper's room, as affording her a little change -lid v.ariety ; but unless all is going on well with her young charges, this indulgence she must forego. A post such responsibility as hers, and for which she is usually liberally remunerated, must not be lightly aban- oned to a junior servant: therefore, if her charges are feverish, restless, or otherwise indisposed, she ought «ver to leave them for any length of time, but to be at hand, and ready, should they need her .attention and ■ sistance. The children s clothing also is under her care. She should see to the repairs they may require i!ing done, and that they are kept well aired, and ready for immediate use. j j i 1549. The duties ofthe under nurse maid consist, if no girl under her is kept, in doing lae work of the nurseries, lighting the fires, sweeping, scouring, dusting, making beds, nmptying water, and replenishing the water ewers, bringing up and carrying down lae nursery meals. Also in wa.shing and dressing aU the children in the nursery, except 5oe mfant; putting them to bed and assisting them to arise in the morning. In the even- lug, she must also assist to mend and make the children's clothes, and at all other tunes ^1-hen there is nothing else to be done for them. 1550. Sometimes a nursery girl is added to the nursery establishment, whose duty con- i-sts in assisting the others generally, but particularly in the rougher parts of nursery ^ ork, such as in scouring, bed-making, washing children's clothes, cleaning grates, &c. hhe also is expected to carry up to the nursery coal, water, and every thing required at Lie meals of the children. Her own meals are taken in the nursery as well as those of er superior fellow-servants. 1551. A nurse maid in families of small income has generally the whole work and management of a nursery, assi.stcd principally by the superintendence of her mistress • and II regard to the harder parts of her duty by the housemaid, in such a situation the house- lamd is usually engaged to carry up and down whatever is required at the nursery meals nnd to walk out once a day with the children. '