RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Chap. I. 901 5146. Green mint sauce This is principally eaten with roasted lamb, either hot or cold, iu the early part of the season. It consists of green mint finely chopped with a little parsley, a tea-spoonful of moist sugar, and a wine-glassful of vinegar. 5147. Young onion sauce. — Peel a pint of button onions, and put them in water till you want to boil them: put them into a stew-pan with a quart of cold water; let them boil till tender ; they will take, according to their age, from half an hour to an hour. You may put them into half a pint of melted butter, to which two spoonfuls of mushroom catsup has been added. 5148. White onion sauce for boiled rabbits, or roasted shoulder of mutton. — For this sauce the Spanish are the mildest. Peel and cut them in half ; lay them in cold water for ten or fifteen minutes ; then boil them for another quarter of an hour ; and, to render them very mild, pour off this water, and with fresh boiling water boil them up once more ; drain them on a sieve, put them on a chopping board, and cut them very fine. In a fresh saucepan, put them again on the fire, adding a small lump of butter, half a pint of cream or milk; stir it till it boils, and if too thick, add more milk or cream ; rub it through a tamis or sieve; put it again into the saucepan to make it warm again; and pour into the tureen when the dish is served which it is to accompany. 5149. Brown onion sauce—Peel and slice some onions (some put in an equal quantity of cucumber or celerj') into a quart stew-pan, with an ounce of butter ; set it on a slow fire, and turn the onion about till it is lightly browned ; now gradually stir in half an ounce of flour ; add a little broth, pepper and salt; boil up for a few minutes, and add a table-spoonful of claret or port wine, and some of mushroom catsup (you may sharpen it with lemon juice or vinegar), and rub it through a hair sieve. 5150. Curry potoder U'ill convert this inio etcellent curry sauce N.B. If this sauce is for steaks, shred an ounce of onions, fry them brown, and put to the sauce you have rubbed through the tamis ; or some small silver button onions, peeled and boiled tender, and put in whole when your sauce is done, will be an acceptable addition. The flavour of this sauce may be varied by adding Tarragon or Burnet vinegar. 5151. Caper sauce Chop a table.spoonful of capers very small, and boil them up in melted butter. See receipt for " Melted Butter." 5152. Parsley and butter. — Put a lump of butter into a saucepan, and as it begins to dissolve, shake in flour till it forms a thick paste; bring this to a proper thickness with water ; chop the parsley very small after having soaked it in boiling salt and water; put it to the butter and give it a boil up, stirring it all the time. Serve it in a tureen. 5153. Mtishroom sauce. —This is best made by pounding a pint of the small or button mushrooms with about an ounce of butter and a table-spoonful of fine flour ; work this well over a gentle heat, moistening with Teal gravy and a little cream: it requires to be well seasoned. Some persons add a dessert spoonful of cavice ; others the same quantity of lemon juice. 5154. Tomata sauce—This is usually eaten with fried lamb chops: it is also well adapted for game. When the tomatas are ripe, stew half a dozen large ones in a pint of beef gravy, with two tea-spoonfuls of minced eschalots ; when they become tender mash them, and pass the pulp through a tamis ; set this on a moderate fire to reduce with a glass of sherry, or other white wine. Towards the end of the process, when it has acquired a proper consistence, add suflicient cayenne pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice. This sauce may be preserved in bottles, but it is much superior when fresh made. 5155. Apple sauce— This is made by boiling apples after they have been pared and the core extracted with a little allspice tied up in a muslin rag; when sufficiently tender, mash them, add a very small piece of butter, and sweeten with moist sugar. 5156. IVine sauce for venison— To a quarter of a pint of claret, or of port wine, add the same quantity of mutton gravy (unseasoned), and a table-spoonful of currant jelly; boil them, and serve them in a sauce tureen. 51.57. Sharp sawe for venison—Put into a clean well-tinned saucepan, half a pint of good white wine vinegar, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar pounded. Let these simmer gently by the fire ; skim the surface of the liquid carefully ; and serve hot in a tureen. 5158. Sweet sauce for venison, hare, or roasted mutton. — Melt currant jelly in a saucepan, adding to it two table-spoonfuls of hot water. 5159. Melted butter. — Melted butter, said by foreigners to be the only English sauce; and it would not be so diflicult an art to make it well, if it were not often done in a hurried and careless manner. Sometimes the butter is oiled, and floats on the surface; sometimes there is too much, and sometimes too little flour; and generally too much boiled. Let the cook keep a pint saucepan for this purpose only, and remember that about two ounces of butter will make a suflicient quantity for one tureen. Put the* butter into the stew-pan, with a large tea-spoonful of flour and two table-spoonfuls of milk ; when melted and mixed together, add six table-spoonfuls of water; shake the saucepan con- stantly while holding it over the fire, taking care that the contents go one way. When it begins to simmer, it may stand quietly and boil up ; pour it into a tureen as soon as it boils. If the butter oils, put a spoonful of cold water to it, and stir it well; if that does not succeed, try the pouring it backwards and forwards from the saucepan into the basin. Melted butter made to be mixed with essences and catsups should be of the thickness of a light batter. 6160. Clarified butter.— Vut butter into a nice clean stew-pan over a clear slow fire; watch it, .md as it melts, skim away the butter-milk it casts up ; let it stand for a minute, that impurities m.iy sink to the bottom ; pour the clear butter through a sieve into a clean basin, leaving the sediment in the stew-pan. 5\Gl. Burnt butter. —Vut a lump of butter into a frying-pan ; when melted, and it becomes brown, add to it a table.spoonful and a half of vinegar, a little pepper, and salt. 5162. Butter, oiled (for frying Jlsh, instead of olive oil). — Melt two ounces of butter in a saucepan or cup • put into hot water: it can scarcely be done too gradually. From the sediment at the bottom, it must be 1 poured away. > Fish Sauces. 5163. Oyster sauce. — Preserve the liquor of the oysters, and the beards when taken ' ofif; boil up the liquor and boards logetlier ; strain it arid put in the oysters; warm them 3 M .-3 1