Book 1. 50 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. plates are thus treated repeatedly, till they are corroded quite through, and all reduced to the stiite of carbonate. It is necessary to observe, that in the method just mentioned, of placing the lead in pots, the white lead causes the sheets to adhere so firmly to the pots, that the workmen are obliged, in order to detach them, to knock, which occasions a great deal of dirt, extremely prejudical to their health. By an improved mode, the rolls of lead are placed on a floor of boards pierced full of holes, and below this floor the pots full of vinegar are placed, sunk in dung, the vapour of the vinegar and the carbonic acid ascending to the lead through the holes : this method is not only more productive of white lead, but there is no breakage of the pots, and the rolls being well sprinkled with water, the dust is avoided. The white lead, after the flake wliite has been separated, is scraped off, and then ground in water, and afterwards saturated with linseed oil. It is then put into firkms, each con- taining about three hundred weight, in which state it is dispensed at the colour shops. White lead, when sold by retail, is frequently found adulterated with powdered chalk and various white mineral bodies that very much injure its quality, causing it to have less body, and likewise to turn yellow when made into paint. As much of the durability and beauty of the paint depends upon the goodness of the white employed as the basis, especial care should be taken to have this genuine. When a large quantity is wanted, it is safest to purchase it at the white lead works where it is made ; but even there it is sometimes not free from adulteration. It is improved by keeping. Adulteration with chalk may be detected by dissolving a little dUuted hydrochloric acid, filtering it and adding a little oxalate of ammonia. If chaUt be in the white lead, a cloudy white precipitate of oxalate of lime will appear, which is owing to the affinity of the oxalic acid for lime, the basis of chalk. Nottingham ivhite is a superior kind of white lead, used in the best work in the finishing called Flatting. 189. The oils employed are those varieties which have a drying quality, which is in- creased by art: such as linseed oil, nut oil, poppy oil, lamp oU, and walnut oil. They are all obtained by pressure from the seeds of the plants after which they are named, and from the manner in which they are procured, they at first always contain mucilage. 190. Linseed oil is the only one that is employed in the large way in house painting : it is obtained by pressure from the seed of flax : and it is afterwards filtered, to clear it of any of the husks of the seed, and then suffered to remain in tubs to precipitate and clarify. The freer from colour the oil is the better : and its clearness is gi'catly improved by keep- ing : if kept for a year or two, it will deposit all its colouring particles, and be nearly as transparent as water. In this state the oil is called raw linseed oil; and though it has of itself a drying property, yet paint made with it would be very long in drying ; and there- fore means are employed to increase this property. 191. Oils are rendered drying by boiling them either alone, or with metallic oxides ; as litharge, ceruse, red lead, &c. The mucilage is supposed to unite with the oxygen of the oxide, and the oil itself is then ready to attract oxygen from the atmosphere, and to be- come solid. There are various methods of preparing drying oil. Add to half a gallon of raw linseed oil six ounces of litharge, and an ounce and a half of white vitriol. Boil the oil on these over a gentle fire, taking care to skim it from time to time: the matter which rises to the top, and which is skimmed off is called by the painters smudge, or dryer; it is of a lead colour, and is used for outside work, and sometimes mixed in the dark colours, to make them dry quicker. When no more scimi rises, the fire is stopped, the oil, being left at rest, gradually settles and clarifies. Linseed oil so prepared is sold at all colour shops under the name of boiled oil. Instead of litharge, red lead or white lead may be used, or linseed oil may be rendered drying without boiling, by mixing one pound of white lead with a gallon of oil, and letting it stand a week or two, till the lead and the feculent parts of the oil have subsided. Some consider that the best way is to boil the oil simply for a considerable time, without any addition. In boiling oil it is necessary to be extremely careful to prevent any water from coming into it while b6iling: for a single drop would be instantly converted into steam by the excessive heat of the boiling oil (GOO degrees), which by its expansive power would force part of the oil over the sides of the boiler; and this taking fire might occasion serious accidents. 192. Oil of turpentine, generally called turps by house painters, and improperly termed " spirits " of turpentine, is much in use as an ingredient in paint; and as its history is connected with several other substances employed, we will give them altogether. 193. Common turpentine is the natural resinous juice which exists in trees of the fir tribe, and may be often observed exuding from a deal board which is exposed to the sun, particularly in places where there are knots. wOiich abound in it. It is about the consistence of honey, of a yellowish colour, and is obtained in large quantities from the wild pine or Scotch fir (^Pinus sylvcstris), but is brought to us chiefly from the nonbern countries of Europe. To procure the turpentine, the trees are stript of their outer bnrk