lies THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Book XXV. rub the sides and edges of the cheese with finely-powdered salt. The salting is thus per- formed after the cheese is made; but in Scotland and some other places the salt is minutely mixed with the curd previous to its being put into the vat. Both practices appear to be equally successful; but the latter is least troublesome, and occasions less waste of salt. Although we have mentioned three days for salting, this must depend upon the size of the cheese ; and the time must be varied by experience. Too much salt is unpleasant; and, with too little, the cheese will not keep. The cheeses, after being salted, are returned to the vats without the cloths and are again pressed. It is then to be well wiped, and dried for about a week. 6924. 77ie cheese, being at last completed, is now to be placed in the cheese-room. This may be a loft, and should be airy and dryit should be fitted up with proper shelves for the cheese ; or, if on a small scale, a cheese-rack may be suspended to receive them, made to lower by a rope and winch. The cheese should be turned three times a week for some time. K they are liable to a kind of blistering, called heaving, occasioned by a slight fermentation and the formation of air in the interior, the latter may be discharged by pricking them pretty deep in the blistered places, and removing them for a time into a cooler situation. A preventive is to rub on a powder sold in the shops under the name of cheese powder, composed of nitre and bole armeniac : this is put on before the salting, and sometimes proves serviceable ; but, if too much be applied, it gives the cheese an acid taste, and actually increases the evil it was intended to prevent. The cheese-room must be kept of a certain temperature ; too great warmth will make the cheese sweat and lose their oily parts, and too much air or the rays of the sun would dry them too fast, and make them crack : a medium temperature and ventilation is best. 6925. The difference in cheese, not only of different countries, but of different districts in the same country is very remarkable, and is not yet well accounted for, nor have sufficiently numerous and accurate experiments been made to determine all the circum- stances that are most favourable to its manufactwe. It is said that little or no improve- ment has been made of late in the manufacture of cheese. 6926. The whey formed in making cheese is generally employed in England to fatten pigs, and is sometimes conducted by leaden pipes into an underground cistern near the pig-styes, where it is raised by a pump when wanted. In some places, however, they first set it by to throw up a sort of cream from which they make whey butter, which is much inferior to milk butter. Others put the whey on a smart fire, and, when near boiling, mix it with a quantity of buttermilk, and these fleetings, ovjlit milk, as it is called, form curds, which are skimmed off so long as they arise, and are used as agreeable food. CHAP. VI. POULTRY. 6927. Tlie term poultrt/ includes the common fowl, the turkey, goose, duck, guinea-fowl and tame pheasant. Each of these requires peculiar treatment, which we must describe separately. In Book VII. Chap. V., " On Food," we mentioned the peculiarities of these different birds, and to this we refer the reader; what remains to be treated of is the manner of rearing them. 6928. In some places, a poultry-house is built large enough to contain all these animals, and this is often found an agreeable as well as useful addition to a mansion, affording an op- portunity of observing their habits. Some poultry-houses have been fitted up on a consider-