183 N 4 Ohap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. one consists of very small hollow glohules invisible to the naked eye, and the other of uundles of tubes finer than human hairs. The most solid parts contain the greatest pro- oortion of the latter. Besides the concentric rings just mentioned, which form a series of i.ioUow cylinders one within the other, there are thin plates of dense wood, which extend ijearly from the centre to the circumference of the trees in a radiating manner, and con- t equently crossing the last-mentioned concentric layers. These radiating plates constitute trhat the cabinet-makers call the silver grain, which is very conspicuous in some woods, ;:.nd which often has a principal effect in producing the elegant stripes so frequently i-een. Besides the very minute tubes and cellular tissues which always constitute the aubstance of wood, there are likewise many tubes passing through the lengthway of the rcee, which are so much larger than the rest as to be visible to the naked eye, and which, rrhe'n divided longitudinally, appear as minute grooves on the surface, and give a coarse- mess of grain. This is particularly observable in the coarse mahogany and in oak ; and hhey catch and hold the dirt, and then appear as dark lines on the surface. In some of hlie close-grained woods, as lime, pear tree, beech, birch, and lignum vitse, these large mhes either do not exist, or are not sufficient in size to be conspicuous : and the wood ipppears, even when examined by a high magnifier, to be composed of fine shining threads, loot tubular, the hollowness being too minute to be easily ascertained. The various striped, ivavy, curled, appearance of the various woods, depend much upon the direction in which haese parts are cut across by the saw. Another variety in the figure of woods is the (.■ccurrence of eyes, round spots, and small curls, which, although hardly suited to the larger kinds of cabinet work, is often extremely ornamental in smaller articles, as stands rr work-tables. Birds' eye maple, Amboyna wood, and the root of the common yew and .dm, are perhaps the most beautiful in this respect. 810. Another class of trees is that termed by botanists Endogenous, Jig. 158., the struc- ture of which is very different. These may be exemplified by palms and bamboos, and is well seen in the common rattan cane. The trees have their stems straight, and their leaves only at the top. In the section of the stem no radiating lines are seen, but only very minute circles, which are the ends of tubes disposed longitudinally. Trees of this kind grow only in warm climates: and their wood is not employed for furniture in I^~^i^iEii4^ this country in the manner of exogenous trees. Fig.\5S. 811. Mahogany. There are two kinds of mahogany in common use • furniture. The finest and most valuable kind is imported from St. Domingo and Doaica, and designated by the cabinet-makers Spanish mahogany : the other is inferior i coarser, called Honduras, being the produce of the British colony of that name in uth America. Spanish mahogany, being brought from a foreign colony, is subject to a ry heavy import duty, charged by weight. It is very hard in texture, and the grain is ise and has a silky aspect; the pores are short, and sometimes are scarcely to be served: consequently it receives a fine surface and polish, and is always used in the 3t dining-tables, side-boards, and other articles of good furniture, for which it is admir- ly adapted, not only on account of the closeness of its fibre or grain, which prevents its rbouring dirt, but from its beautiful mottled, wavy, and curled appearance, in which, ;ether with its rich colour, it excels all other woods. The cabinet-maker runs a con- lerable risk in purchasing mahogany, as he is often disappointed in the quality of the )od; that in the interior of the log, when sawed up, sometimes not answering the ex- ctations which were formed from the examination of the outside. Hondtiras mahogany, fieing imported from a British settlement, is charged with much less duty. In most Instances it is very inferior to the Spanish ; it is of lighter weight, and softer in substance; ad, the pores being wider and longer, it is not susceptible of so fine a polish. It is liable ' > retain and absorb more dirt: if wetted, especially when new, the surface becomes )ugh and woolly. The logs of Honduras are in some cases very large, measuring nearly lur feet in diameter; but its general value is about one half or two thirds of that of panish. 812. Although we have stated that Spanish mahogany is superior to Honduras, yet lat must be understood generally; for some logs of the latter are occasionally found qual to the former; and from this circumstance it is not always possible for the most ractised eye to determine which of these two woods a piece of furniture consists of, istances occasionally occurring, though rarely, where Honduras has all the beautiful , irl and close grain of the Spanish. It is a practice with some cabinet-makers to stain , lahogany to improve the colour; this stain is apt in time to change : good mahogany is < ever stained. 81."?. 77ic/itston/o/ma/iojrany is rather interesting. ,( The first mention of the employment of mahogany was in the repair of some of Sir ' Valter Raleigh's ships at Trinidad, in 1.597 ; but the discovery of the beauty of its grain y ir cabinet work was accidental, about the beginning of the eiglitccnth century. It is lus related by Mr. Phillips in his work on " Fruit Trees." \)r. (iibbons, an eminent