Book VIIL BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 64G pcilmps five or six d.lys afterwards to rack and fiimignte again. This will generally have the desired pfTect. •J--."i'"? ''''P''"ded upon, and should be drunk quiekly. iiiM. If imne has become loo sour lo be recoverable, the best way is to dispose of it to the distillers to make spirit from, or to let the fermentation go on, and convert it into vinegar. 3G35. Rnpmcss, by some called ureasiness, is another disease to which some wines arc liable. This is a cluinge which sometimes takes place after the wine has been closely conHned in casks or bottles. But it Is only white wines that are subject to this disease, which consists in the appearance of a stringy matter which Boats through the wine, and somelimes puts on a reticulated form. When the disease has been contracted it m.iy sometimes be removed by clarification with fish glue ; but this remedy does not always succeed and when it does, it diminishes a little the strength of the wine. The most efficacious remedy is racking or de- _ canting ofl'; and it is said that a little tannin added to the wine has the effect of iireclpitating the ropy matter. 3ra6. Mustmess is a peculiar disagreeable flavour, often derived from an unsound cask, or from tlie cork. This appears to be absolutely incurable, though it may be sometimes diminished by agitating the wine in con- tact with air, or by the introduction of common air, or carbonic acid by pumping. 3037. The diseases lo which made wines are liable arc in every respect similar to those which are the genuine produce of the grape. SuBSECT. 8 Choice of Wines. 3G38. The choice of wines in laying in a stock is a matter of considerable difficulty, par- ticularly to the inexperienced. A habit of tasting the superior wines will alone give the palate the power of discriminating minute differences in the aroma and bouquet of the choicer kinds. But a very correct taste in wine is a rare quality ; and there is sometimes a good deal of pretension in passing a judgment upon them. The particular impression on the sense of taste is also liable to be aflfected by the state of bodily health at the time, or by the last substance taken into the mouth. Thus wine after sweetmeats and fruits frequently tastes harsh ; whereas, after made dishes and cheese, wines sometimes appear better than they really are. The first object to be considered, next to the taste, from which the purchaser must judge for himself, is whether the wine is pure, and the genuine production of the country whose name it bears ; and whether or not it is adulterated with any foreign substance. To distinguish this accurately, in many cases, requires great experience and a very nice practised palate. It is even said that few persons except the manufacturers themselves are judges sufficiently experienced to distinguish and appreciate the different growths of their own territory ; and that even these cannot esti- mate properly the wines of another district. Another kind of information necessary is to be able to distinguish the condition of the wine, whether it is new, and whether it will keep or will be liable to change. Some wines may appear good that will not keep a year, and others that at first appeared but indifferent will improve so much by keeping as to be in the end excellent. Good wine is most frequently to be found among capitalists, who can afford to buy large quantities in favourable years, and who can select in their stock that which is the fittest for bottling at any particular time, not sending out any but what is fit for use, and who have a reputation to keep up. It is scarcely necessary to add, after what we have said already in various places, that there are few articles of domestic consumption, where there are more frauds practised than in wine, or where more money may be thrown away for want of good management: to say nothing of the pleasure it affords every one to place good wine before his guests, or the danger of injuring their health by offering them what is prejudicial. These con- siderations must serve as our apology for laying a little stress on the propriety of using some care and discrimination in procuring this article, which will be a good deal at least assisted by an acquaintance with the history of wine. Sect. V. ADULTERATION OF WINES. 3639. Although it be acknowledged that wine is a luxury, and not a necessary of life yet it is one of those luxuries which, used in moderation, has its use in the list of our social enjoyments. It is, therefore, exceedingly to be lamented that an article in such general request by the middle and higher ranks in this country is so frequently adnlterated that to procure it genuine requires very considerable experience; and in the ordinary mode, on a small scale, this is scarcely possible without employing precautions with which few are acquainted. With respect to the danger to health arising from the use of adul- terated wines, those persons who are in the habit of fraudulent practices are seldom stopped by the consideration of the mischief they do to society, and there can be little doubt that though all adidterations are not equally hurtful, many of them are of a highly deleterious nature. It is proper, therefore, that every one should be put upon their guard against the hazard that exists of their drinking slow poison instead of a healthful beverage, to say nothing of the imposition that is submitted to when they pay for a very inferior article the price of that of the first quality. . r, . . 3640. The extent, to lohich the sophistication of wine is carried on in Britain, and y-.w- ticularly in the metropolis, would be incredible, were it not attested by good authoniKs; and it is an evil that appears scarcely remediable until the public is more enlightened on