ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. 792 has a ricli marrowy taste that ik> otlicr butter ever acquires, and tastes so little suit, tliat one would imajiino it would not keep." Dr. Anderson has seen it perlcctly sound and sweet when two years old in thit climate. 453.'). 'Wlien hitter is to be exposed to the heat of a warm climate, it requires, in order to make it keep, to be clarified before it is salted and packed up. To do this, put it iuto an iron vessel, and suspend that in another iron vessel, containing water in the manner that chemists make a water-bath, or like a cabinet-maker's glue-pot. Put the whole over the tire till the butter is melted. By continuing the heat some time about 196°, the albumen or cheesy matter will coagulate and settle to the bottom, leaving the butter pure and transparent like oil. When it is nearly cold, take the i)ure butter ofif from the dregs that have settled, let it get cold and solid, and salt and pack it up in the same manner as ordinary butter. The use of the double ves,scl is to prevent the butter fi-om burning to, which would give it a disagreeable enipyreumatic taste. This purified butter will be somewhat paler than before, and of a firmer consistence; if put into close vessels, and in a cool place, it will keep for some mouths without salt. This, according to M. Thenard, is also the method employed by the Tartars to preserve their butter; and he states that if, when used, it be beaten up with one-sixth of cheese, it will have much the flavour of fresh butter. The baM flavour of rancid butter may, according to this chemist, be removed almost entirely by similar meltings and coolings, 4.536. W/icn a, barrel of sttlt butler is opened, and consumed slowly, the surface of the butter should be kept covered with strong brine. 4537. Butter may be preserved without salt, by incorporating it with honey in the pro- portion of an ounce to a pound of butter. This has an agreeable taste, will keep for years, and might be useful on long voyages; but as the proportion of honey is consider- able, it may not agree with some constitations. 4538. The salt butter of Holland is superior to that of every other country. It forms about three-fourths of all the foreign butter we import: Keil butter, when it can be had genuine, is excellent. Irish butter is inferior to that of Britain ; chiefly, it is said, owing, to want of care in its manufacture. Sect. X. PRESERVATION OF EGGS. 4539. However compact and close the shell of an egg may appear, it is nevertheless perforated with a multitude of small pores, too minute to be seen by the unassisted eye. The effect of these, however, is evident, by the daily decrease of the moisture of the egg, through evaporation, and the air taking its place, which operates in effecting its alteration. From the time of its being laid, when the egg is quite full, a fluid is constantly perspiring through the perforations of the shell, which occasions its decay ; and this proceeds more rapidly in warm than in cold weather. Although an egg quite fresh is proverbially " full," yet in all stale eggs there is some vacancy, which is in proportion to the loss they have sustained through evaporation. If the end of a fresh egg be applied to the tongue, it feels cold, but that of a stale egg feels warm, because the white of the former being in contact with the shell abstracts the heat from the tongue more rapidly than the air bubble in the latter. 4540. To preserve eggs completely fresh, therefore, this transpiration must be stopped, and the egg kept full. Any kind of varnish will answer this purpose, but the most con- venient substance is mutton suet, or a mixture of that and beef suet. This is rubbed over the eggs ; the most effectual method is to dip the eggs into this melted in a pipkin ; olive oil will also answer. They should be afterwards wiped to take oS' the superfluous fat or oil, which might become rancid, for all that is wanted is to stop up the pores. After this anointing, the eggs should be set on end with the small end uppermost, wedged close together, one layer over another in bran, the containing box being closely covered up. Laid upon the side, the yolk will adhere to the shell. They thus come into use, at the end of a considerable time, in a state almost equal to new laid eggs. They should be done over with the suet as soon as possible after they are laid. Some cover them with a solu- tion of gum arable, which is preferable to fat. Eggs are sometimes packed in bran, meal of any kind, wood-ashes, salt, or charcoal powder ; but these substances are not nearly so eft'ectual alone, as when the eggs are first done over with the above-mentioned substances, !is they can have but a slight influence in preventing the transpiration we have mentioned. Eggs should never be suffered to continue in the nest above a di»y, since the warmth which they receive in it from the hen is inimical to their keeping. It should be observed, that on the third day after the hen begins to sit on her eggs to hatch them, they are rendered unfit for use. ■l.'ill From an exvniwriil iif n^'immur, it api)ears that cutting olT the access of air to the embryo in the e(,'K d<ie« not kill nr prevent it being hatched, but, on the contr.ary. preserves it alive for a much longer \y.'r\(«i than if it had not been treated in this manner. He covered eggs over with spirit >arnish, and found them capable of producing chickens after two years, when the varnish was carefully removed.