(Chap. VI. 43.5 FISH. F f 2 1 law, thus making the weaker party contribute to the success of those who are already ia I possession of many important advantages. It is certain, however, that the protected beds are a much more productive source of I profit, botli to the dredgers and to the public, than tliose which, from various causes, are 1 left at the mercy of parties who are not locally interested in their preservation. In England, the oysters from the beds at Milton, in Kent, forty miles from London, are in i high repute, as the whitest and most delicate, and are consumed in every part of England, 1 under the title of " native oysters." The native oysters are properly those that are born : and bred in this country; and the Milton natives are mostly spat in the Burnham and . Mersey rivers, and placed in the Milton beds: they do not come into their finest con- t dition till near four years old. The beds at Colchester, Pyfleet, Milford, Maldon, Fever- • sham, Queenborough, Rochester, and those in the Swale and Medway, are also highly ( esteemed, and help to supply the London market. The common or Colchester oysters 1 come in the 5th of August; but the native Miltons do not come in till the beginning of I October, and are in greatest perfection near Christmas. There are also beds in Jersey : and on the coast of Wales, which produce large quantities of oysters, some of which 1 are brought to London. On the Scotch coast oysters are less numerous than on the English ; and they are not • so frequently reared in beds : but the beds in the Firth of Forth and in Musselborough Bay, I taken near the salt-pens, yield oysters of good flavour, and of a large size. The Carling- I ford oyster, on the coast of the county of Louth in Ireland, are said to be of very superior I flavour. Oysters from Brittany have been long famous, particularly those from Caucalle near St. Malo : but those brought from Mercunes in Saintonge are in the highest estimation with the French. The green oysters eaten in Paris are brought from Dieppe. In tropical regions ■ the common oyster is found attached to trees that grow on the edge of the sea, as the I mangrove ; and though this has been often thought fabulous, it is perfectly true. Many I of the branches of these trees grow under water, and are covered with oysters. Instead (of taking off the oysters, the branches are sometimes cut off with the fish upon them, (carried home in baskets, and placed upon the table in that state. 2271. Ot/sters are now most generally eaten raw, and in this state they are every way pre- ,feraMc. VThen cooked, they are deprived of their salt water which promotes their ! digestion, and they likewise lose much of their nutritive mucilaginous matter, their albu- I men becoming hard. When good, they are allowed to be, in general, highly nutritious; : and with most persons they constitute an extremely light food; but with weak stomachs I they are cold, and require the addition of some stimulant; pepper is the best 2272. Oysters which have been fattened in artificial beds sometimes acquire a green I tinge ; and it has been supposed that this colour is occasioned by their having grown upon 1 rocks impregnated with copper, and that such oysters consequently have a poisonous 1 quality. As this is a popular error, it is proper to set the matter right. The green tinge : is not owing in any instance to copper; but is derived, according to some, from the oysters ! feeding upon the minute plants called confervaj, that grow abundantly in those places • where the water is shallow, and the sun has great power : the green colour is thought to i be owing to a peculiar state of the bile ; oysters maybe made green in such places in I three or four days. When persons have been made ill from eatmg such oysters, they • would, in all probability, have experienced the same effects from eating an equal quantity 1 of any others. There are no rocks whatever containing copper in the places where our I oysters are taken, nor can the slightest trace of copper be detected in them by chemical I tests. The popular notion that oysters possesS aphrodisiac properties appears to have no I foundation. 2273. Like all fish, they are out of season at spawning time; and hence the origin of the 1 old saying that " an oyster is never good except when there is an R in the month ;" but 1 this supposes that they are not to be eaten in August, and some are of opinion that they : are not thoroughly fit till the beginning of September. During the period from the 12th • of May to the 4th of August, they are prohibited being taken or sold, in consequence of ' their being considered as unwholesome, the clerk of Billingsgate being empowered to : seize and destroy all that are there offered for sale within the jurisdiction of the Lord Mayor. The magistrates of Rochester and Milton, towever, not being empowered to proceed against the offenders, an illicit trade is carried on there. 2274. During the season, the cojisumption of oysters in London is immense, and no article of diet is more generally used by every class. The number of dealers is proportionably large, the poorest streets not being without one or two, genei-ally supplied at least with the large but less delicately flavoured oyster. They are kept alive for consumption for several days, or a week, in tubs containing •water in which a quantity of salt is dissolved, with a little oatmeal added, for the oysters to feed upon, and thus be in condition. They are sent into the country packed close in small barrels at the beds. Frequently what is sold as barrelled oysters are merely the smallest natives, selected from the stock, and put into the tub when ordered ; and instead of