752 Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. the midst of the dough, which is very tenacious from the gluten it contains, does not readily escape, but collects in innumerable little vesicles or bubbles in the interior, which causes the dough to swell up and grow bulky, so that when it is cut across it appears to liave numerous round cavities of various sizes, which had been filled with air. Baking stops the progress of this fermentation, by the drying up of the moisture that was neces- sary for its continuance : if permitted, it would go on to the acetous and putrefactive stag;es. When the bread is sufficiently baked, it retains its porous structure, the whole having a spongy appearance. The fermentation has also produced certain chemical changes in the dough, which render it more agreeable and lighter as food, and it no longer forms a tenacious mass. 4283. WluU the chemical changes are, is far from being well understood: but it is to be obse rved, that though raw flour contains starch, gluten, and saccharine matter, none of these substances can be found in their true character in baked bread; some chemical com- bination has therefore taken place, by which a new compound has been formed, and which is fitter for digestion than either of these proximate principles separately. 4284. The chemical theory of the fermentation which has been offered, and which is pro- bably very near the truth, is as follows. The fermentative action in the dough is com- menced by the saccharine matter and the gluten acting on each other, having been first excited by the yeast: and that the first fermentation is of the vinous kind, is proved by the production of alcohol in a small quantity, as will be afterwards shown. The gluten and the sugar being diffused through the whole of the dough, the latter is rendered porous in the manner we have mentioned ; and hence the impossibility of preparing bread which shall have those qualities from the farina of oats, barley, rye, or any of the esculent roots, in all of which the quantity of gluten is comparatively very smaU. During the baking, the starch, which was merely diffused through the mass while in the state of dough, combines with a portion of water, into a stiff jelly, which renders the bread more digestible; and the gluten wholly disappears. Part of the water, at least, is chemically united to the flour, or fixed and rendered solid; thus increasing the weight of the bread, as has been already stated in p. 749. That it is the saccharine matter which acts the principal part in the process offermentation is evident, because, when this is exhausted, the vinous fermentation ceases; and if the fermentation be not checked by the baking, the acetous stage commences. It is also to the semi-transparency of the numerous thin partitions which divide these cells in bread, and which, in fact, constitute all its solidity, that its white colour is due. When bread of wheat flour is baked without being fermented, it forms a solid, dark-coloured, disagreeably- tasted mass, diflBcult of digestion ; qualities which may be obviated by baking it into thin cakes rapidly on a hot iron plate : but these are not comparable to fermented bread. Thus fermented bread has several advantages over unfermented. It is less compact, more agreeable to the taste, it loses its tenacious and glutinous qualities, and is more salutary and digestible. The cells render it more easy to be broken down in the stomach. It is a chemical compoimd, in which the gluten and starch have been altered, so as to be no more recognized and separable. It is also less liable to ascescence. 4285. It was at one time supposed that the fermentation of bread was of a pectdiar kind, which was called the panary fermentation: but it is now thought that this fermentation does not differ essentially from that of wine or beer; being only modified by circumstances. The great objection to the identity of the panary with the vinous fermentation was that no alcohol had been procured from dough, though this might have been expected had the carbonic acid gas been the result of a fermentation of the vinous kind. This difficulty, however, has disappeared, and the question set at rest by an invention which has not only ascertained that alcohol is formed in dough, but by which it may be actually collected. A company was even formed for obtaining the spirit generated during the fermentation of bread, and which, in the ordinary construction of bakehouses, is lost: but though spirit was obtained, the speculation failed to be profitable. No doubt this first chcmic.il change in tlic fermentation of dougli is At tlie expense of the nutritive prin- ciples of the flour. It seems, then, to be a point to be attended to, that as soon as the advantage is obtained of liaving the bread raised, no time should lie lost in putting a stop by the oven to the further fermentation, in order to preserve that sweetness which renders bread agreeable; fermentation beyond tliat time, though it may produce alcohol, can only do so by decomposing tlie important principles of the bread ; and the result of this will be to render the latter insipitl, as well as somewhat less nutritious. It was said that in the new process only such spirit was collected as formerly absolutely escaped notice, although it is always found in tlie mode employed l)y the ordinary baker, the bread losing nothing that it ge- nerally" possesses ; and it was farther said tliat this bread does not get sour by keeping. It is, no doubt, true that a'small quantity of spirit is formed in the usual mode of baking, and wliich is lost, from there l)eing no method of collecting it; but this quantity is extremely small, and prob.ably not worth the troul)le of attempt- ing to preserve. On the contrary, by pushing the fermentation as far as it will go, tlie whole, or a very consider- able portion, of the saccharine principle is destroyed, and the bread sulTors in its qualities. "IWG It has been remarked, that although sugar is tlie principal substance decomposed m consequence of the fermentation yet about three per cent, is still found in bre.id baked in the usual manner, the flour having had only five per cent. Ilul it is the stopping of the fermentation by the process of baking that has prevented the whrile of the sugar from being decomposed, which would have liappened had not this been done, or if the fermentation should proceed far enough. It is not improbable that some of the starch of the flour may have been converted into sugar during the baking. 42S7. It must be observed, likewise, that this method of collecting alcohol in baking can only be practised