699 Chap. X. ON TEA. ■which is nearly as good as congou; and that of Woping or Canton, which is the lowest quality of tea in the European markets. The last consists of the coarsest and oldest of the leaves, often the refuse, and on this account is the most liable to be adulterated both in China aud in this country ; it is said to be but little used in London, being mostly sent into the country ; it is of a blackish cast, and yields a deep yellow infusion. 4010. Congou (cong-fou, "made with care"). The consumption of this black tea in England very much exceeds that of any other variety. Its infusion is lighter than that of bohea; the best kind, the Campoi congou, has a very agreeable flavour : but the cheaper kinds somewhat resemble bohea, and are probably often mixed with it. 4011. Souchong {se-ou-chong, "a very little sort"). This was formerly much imported, and is still so to a certain extent; but it is said that some of the finer kinds have of late almost disappeared from the English market, without any cause being assigned, and that the finer congou is often sold for it. Its infusion is of a greenish colour, and it has an agreeable flavour. 4012. Pekoe.—The class of teas which bears the name of Pekoe (pe-koio, " white leaf bud ") is the finest of black teas. The flowery pekoe consists of the early buds of the best tea plants, and are sometimes, in parcels intended for presents, intermixed with flowers supposed to be those of the fragrant olive, which is discoverable in the form of small white particles; its infusion is light, inclining to green, has a violet scent, and very agreeable flavour. This tea is more common in Russia than in England, being chiefly the produce of the north of China ; with us it is little used except for flavouring other teas. 4013. Twankay.—This is the coarsest of the green teas, and is little used in this country, except by the lower classes. It is said to be the growth of a different district from the hyson. Singh is very similar to twankay. 4014. Hi/son.—The hysons are the sorts of green tea most usually employed. When good, the infusion is a fine green, with a decided flavour. Hyson s/dn consists of the inferior leaves of the hyson separated in the manufacturing. 4015. Gunpowder tea.—This is the best of the hyson or green teas, and is so named from the smallness and roundness of the grain. It consists of the first leaves of the vernal crop of the green tea plant. "What is brought to England is not mixed with the flowers of any other plant like the pekoe; but some of the finest green teas imported by the Russians possess this admixture. What is sold for gunpowder tea by many grocers is only hyson of a small grain ; and the latter is often employed to adulterate gxmpowder tea. Real gunpowder tea should have a small, bright, well-curled leaf and a very fine flavour. Several other kinds of tea than those just mentioned are to be met with in lists of teas kept in shops ; but th^se consist chiefly of mixtures of teas of various sorts, and are scarcely to be considered as actual varieties : the dealers, there is reason to believe, pro- ducing most of them for their customers, according to the demand, or their skill and ideas of profit. It is probable, likewise, that in future considerable alterations may take place in the varieties and classification of teas ; and that the late endeavoui-s to gi-ow tea in other parts of the world, and the discoveries of wild tea in our lately acquired province of Assam, may tend to this effect. 4016. Besides the above teas' in common use in Britain, some other less known varieties are occasionally imported. Among these are. Padre tea, a very highly-flavoured souchong, made up in pound packets; Caper Souchong scented, made up in the form of balls, and imported chiefly in small boxes; Cowslip Hyson, tea scented by the admixture of scented berries, that give it a cowslip flavour, &c.; Ankoy teas grown in An-khe: these, though they resemble the teas of Canton, are inferior and cheaper. They are supposed to be gathered from wild tea plants, with which whole districts in China are covered. 4017. Senerul plants, it is said, are employed by the Chinese in giving a perfume and favour to teas; as the leaves of Olea fragrans. Camellia sesanqua, Polygala thurans, Rhamnus thurans, &c. It appears that different tea farms in China produce teas of various qualities, in the same manner as wine is prepared of different degrees of perfec- tion according to the vines and skill of the manufacturer. These are often mixed by the Ilong merchants, or their agents, to make up the marketable quality. Sect. IV. CHEMICAL ANALYSIS OF TEA, AND ITS MEDICAL EFFECTS. 4018. Few things have been more exclaimed against than the drinking of tea, the con- stant practice of which has been proclaimed to be injurious to the nerves, and debilitating to the constitution ; yet the use of this beverage continues. It has been attempted also to be shown, that it is a useless article of diet to the poor, as being devoid of nutriment, except it may be contained in the milk and sugar used with it ; yet some explanatiou is neces- sary to account for the great partiality of all, particularly of the poor, for tea. Liebig