POULTRY. I Chap. VI. iable scale, consisting of various compartments, each species of bird being placed in cir- > cumstances suited to its nature and habits; and each compartment, besides, including -separate divisions for feeding, roosting, incubation, and rearing. Among the most exten- ssive of these we may refer to that at Lord Penrhyn's at Wilmington in Cheshire, which cconsists of a handsome building 140 feet in length, built of bricks covered with closely j jointed slate, pointed and sanded. It has an extensive court or yard, with colonnades, pavi- 1 lions, and a pond, the whole being kept in a state of the most perfect cleanliness ; others have been erected at Mr. Wakefield's, near Liverpool, at Mr. England's, Aberdeen, &e. How : much of the excellences of these first-rate constructions are attainable on a small scale iwill depend upon the taste of the owner, and other circumstances ; but although a small I collection may be kept in one place, yet the principle of separating each species should mot be lost sight of, and it will be found proper to give them different habitations, i according to their several habits. Sect. I. COMMON FOWLS. 6929. The variety of this bird most usually kept, and the most useful upon the whole, is I the barn-door fowl, or common dunghill cock and hen, which are of the middle size and ' very hardy. The Dorking fowl, with large bodies, short legs, with five claws on each foot, I furnishes the largest and finest capons, and also lays the largest eggs. Game fowls are re- ! markably delicate in their flesh, and their eggs, though the smallest, are by many preferred. The Polish fowl, of a shining black, with crowns of white feathers, resemble the Dorking : in their general qualities. The general method of managing them is nearly the same. 6930. The hen house should be on a very dry soil, as nothing is so injurious to the fowls . as damp ; the place where they are kept should be properly di'ained, the house paved with brick, and the yard covered with some sound material, as brick rubbish with sand and gravel, perhaps with a foundation of concrete. Poultry are often confined in a dark, close, diminutive hovel, which is injurious to their health ; on the contrary they should have an airy well-ventilated place constructed for them, with a yard for exercise ; a few hens, for laying only, are easily kept over an out-house, in a convenient situation. Warmth is very essential to fowls, cofd rendering them torpid, retarding and diminishing their laying; but too much heat enfeebles them. White hens are more tender, and require to be kept warmer than the dark coloured. It is desirable that the walls of the poultry-house should, if possible, receive a little heat from a chimney or flue in some part of the dwelling, which in some cases may be effected with a little contrivance ; and it is not well that the poultry-house should be too large for the number of fowls, as they rather prefer being a little crowded together, on account of the warmth they receive from each other: but ventilation should not be neglected, as bad air generates disease. The walls are best of brick, and may be built hollow, the better to confine the heat; a window is best to the east, and another to the west, with wired lattices, and shutters to close in very cold weather. Roosting perches or rails should be placed in convenient situations in the poultry-house ; and they should not be round, nor smooth, but nearly square, and somewhat rough, of a size suitable to be grasped by the claws of the fowls. It is important that every part of the building should be finished close without crevices, to prevent the entrance of vermin, and the inside should be frequently whitewashed with hot lime; it is necessary to observe that the utmost cleanliness is necessary in a poultry-house. The litter of the nests and the dung should be frequently removed, for no poultry can thrive where this is neglected; the brick floor should be washed every week. 69.31. Coops for fattening, d, fig. 904., are likewise re- quisite ; with a trough before for food. 6932. Nests are sometimes fixtures, and may be built against the wall, either in one tier or several, according to the number of fowls and the size of the house. When there is more than one tier, each of those above Fig.m. the ground must have a projecting shelf at the bottom, for the fowls to reach the nests by, and a slanting board leading to it with slips of wood nailed on. Movable nests, c, fig. 904., are also occa- sionally useful. These nests should be well cleaned out with hot lime-water after every hatching, to destroy the fleas which infest poultry, and which are not only annoying to them, but also to visiters. It is sometimes necessary to separate some fowls from the rest; such as those which are diseased, which are liable to be ill-treated by ^ the rest, as also strangers, and fowls of particular -w\ breeds. Coops and cages are useful for this purpose, JJ*' which may be made in various ways as a and h, fiq. 903. F'H- no'i- 6933, Pens also may be provided made of "lattice 4 F