Book VIII. 526 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 2943. Rivers which issue from lakes are generally very pure and transparent, because all the sediment has been deposited in the still water, and the stream that issues is free froni the mechanically suspended impurities that were brought into the lake. The Rhone coming out of the Lake of Geneva furnishes a good example of this fact. 2944. /?t countries where bogs and peaty marslies abound, the rivers are often tinged with a brownish colour extracted from the peat, and which does not easily separate from the water. 294.5. Tlie taste of river water is more vapid, and less agreeable, than that of spring ■water, because the former has lost all its carbonic acid in consequence of long exposure to the atmosphere ; and it is this which renders spring water so pleasant as a beverage. 2946. Many capital cities are supplied with river water, as London with the water of the Thames, Paris with that of the Seine. The Thames water is of itself remarkable for its softness and purity, although in passing through London it receives a great deal of impurities from sewers, and various other local causes. Most of the foulness with which it is in this way contaminated is only suspended, and not dissolved, in the water, and therefore mere rest causes much of it to subside, and the greater part of the remainder of what is merely suspended might be separated by filtration : the same may be said of the New River wa;ter. The water of the Seine has been carefully examined by Parmentier, and appears to be of gi-eat purity, notwithstanding the numerous manufactories, as dyers, tanners, hatters, &c., which crowd on its banks, but it contains more lime than Thames water. Sect. VII. ICE AND SNOW WATER. 2947. Tlie water from melted ice is nearly pure, as almost all saline substances are sepa- rated by the freezing of the water ; even the ice of salt water is nearly fresh, and is used in some places for brewing : but the air contained in the water is likewise separated by this process. Ice water is therefore similar to what has been boiled, in consequence of which fish will not live in it except it be afterwards exposed to the air for some time. It has a vapid taste, and does not appear to quench the thirst, nor to act as a solvent in the digestive process so well as rain water. Water from melted snow agrees in its properties with that from ice. 2948. It has been supposed that ice and snow water are unwholesome, and that they give rise to the unseemly disease the bronchocele, or goitre, which disfigures so many per- sons in the Alpine valleys who are obliged to drink snow water for a great part of the year ; but this opinion is no longer admitted by physicians, who observe that the " same affection prevails in Sumatra, where ice and snow are never seen ; and, on the contrary, that this complaint is unknown in Chili and Thibet, although the rivers of these countries are derived from the melting of the snow with which the mountains are covered." Cap- tain Cook, and other navigators, have proved the wholesomeness of ice and snow water, which they have been obliged to depend upon entirely in high latitudes ; and in the polar regions, thawed snow and ice forms the constant drink of the inhabitants during winter, and of the mariners who visit them. This kind of water is perfectly soft, dissolves soap readily, and will keep good for many years. Sect. VIIL sea water. 2949. Tlie saltness of the sea is no doubt one of the wise arrangements of Providence to prevent the evils which we perceive in stagnant fresh water. The saline impregnation prevents the putrefaction of the animal and vegetable remains with which it abounds. 2950. According to Dr. Murray's analysis, a pint of sea water on our coasts contains : — lime, 2-9 grains ; magnesia, 14-8 ; soda, 96-3; sulphuric acid, 14-4 ; muriatic acid, 97-7 ; total, 226-0 : or if we consider these substances as combined in the water, it will be : — muriate of soda, or common salt, 159-3 gi-ains; muriate of magnesia, 35-5 ; muriate of lime, 5-7 ; sulphate of soda, 25-6 ; total, 226-0 . or 1 of saline contents to about 30 of water. It is the muriates of magnesia and lime that give the bitterness which we taste in water of the sea. This water will not do for washing, on accoimt of the salts which it contains : nor, for the same reason, is it proper for preparing food. 2951. The steam which rises on the boiling of salt water is nearly quite fresh, scarcely any of the salt rising with it; hence it might appear that we have an easy method of ob- taining fresh water from the sea, since, for this purpose, it is only necessary to subject salt water to the common process of distillation, and the water formed by the condensa- tion of the steam in the usual way will be fresh, the salt remaining behind in the still, or any vessel employed for distilling. Yet simple and obvious as is this process, it does not