827 I Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. fpot has an iron lid, by which it forms an oven ; the lid is put on the ground, with the cmeat, bread, or pie on it; this is covered by the pot inverted, and live coals of turf heaped cover it. 4705. Kitchen boilers or keUles, fig. 659., are large vessels of tin, copper, or cast-iron, ffor boiling joints of meat, soup, or only water ; they may be round, but are usually oval, fwith two handles. 4706. Tea boilers, fig. 660., are made of cast-iron, and hold two or three gallons of water vwanted for tea ; they are detached vessels, and being boiled over the fire in the range, are tkept hot upon the hob; they have a cock to draw off the water. 4707. Fish kettles, fig. (,61., ?ive of an oblong form, having two handles; and have a I movable bottom pierced fuU of holes, on which the fish is laid, and on which it may be r raised out of the water by means of two long handles, to prevent its being liable to be )broken, as it would be when cooked in a common saucepan. A smaller kind,^^. 662., is c called a mackerel kettle. 4708. Saucepans are the smaller round vessels for boiling, made with a single handle. I In Britain these are made of various materials, copper, sheet iron, cast-iron, and tin plate ; ■ the most common are those of tin plate, that is, sheet iron tinned. In treating of the 1 materials of ftirniture. Book V., we explained, under iron and tin, the nature of tin plate ; ! but it is necessary here to repeat, that many persons are in error respecting this sub- • stance. From nothing being visible on the surface but the metal tin, iron being entirely V covered, many persons imagine that these tin saucepans are made wholly of the metal tin, ; and not of iron ; in fact, that those which are usually said to be of block tin are made of I tin alone ; but the truth is, that both common and block tin are merely iron plate coated on 1 both sides with tin. The use of thus coating sheets of thin iron with tin is this: iron alone i soon rusts when exposed to the air and damp ; but as tin is fortunately a metal that does not 1 rust in the air, the iron is plated with it to defend it. Any one may easily convince them- ! selves of the nature of tin plate by scraping off with a knife the tin from a piece of a sauce- i pan ; it will be found that the tin itself is soft, and can be easily cut or scratched, which is ■ not the case with iron ; and rf the spot so scraped be exposed to damp air, it will soon be- ' come covered with rust, while the part that remains tinned will not; also, if the edge of a ■ fresh-cut piece of tin plate be examined with a magnifier, the difference between the iron in the centre, and the tin on each side, will be easily recognised. What is usually called block tin is merely a superior kind of tin plate. This useful information being gained, which, though familiar to many, is far from being so to all, the precautions necessary for preserving tin saucepans will be more easily comprehended ; for whatever wears off the tin from the iron exposes the latter to rust, and this in a short time corrodes, or, as it is called, eats the iron into holes ; whereas, if the tin be protected, the saucepan may last