ON THE PRODUCTION OF COLD. 673 Chap. VII. Some recommend to have the brick lining double, with an empty space between, to form a more complete non-conductor of heat: but this additional e.x^pense is unnecessary under ground. The draining is essential, some ice-houses failing through want of atten- tion to it. The walls of the cone should be built with Roman cement, or at least with very good mortar that will set hard. To support the ice at bottom, it should be placed on a sti'ong wooden grating, or what is foimd to answer very well, an old cart-wheel, as represented in the woodcut, being very strong from its form : this permits the water produced by the partial thawing of the ice to pass off into the drain, c d; the latter should have a trap, e, to prevent the external air from commimicating with that of the ice-house. Should the situation of the ground not admit of a drain being carried out from the bottom of the ice well, it may terminate in a small well,/, sunk deeper to receive the water; and as this water will always be ice-cold, it may be raised up when wanted for cooling wine, butter, &c., by a small pump placed in the porch of the ice-house. The door for taking out the ice, c, should be double, with straw stuffed between both; and the same precaution should be used with the aperture, g, for putting in the ice. There should be a long passage leading to the door, c, having in it two more doors, /; and i. In the space between h and c there may be an ice-cold room; and the space between h and i is to admit of the door i being shut before the door h of the cold room is opened, to hinder the access of the external air. The top of the ice-house may be finished in various ways. It may be covered over with tough clay and then with earth, and planted with shrubs as a mound; or it may appear as a low building covered with plenty of thatch. The closer the ice is packed the better. 3798. An ice-house may be formed above ground, by building the walls and arched roof double, a foot apart, the better to keep out the heat; and the whole may be thatched, or covered over with giant ivy, or some other creeping plants. The ice should be laid hollow with a drain from it, and all the precautions above-mentioned taken. When ice cannot be had, snow packed and beaten down well may serve as a substitute. 3799. A succedimeum for an ice-house m.iy be made as follows: — Take an iron-bound butt or puncheon, and knock out the head ; then cut a small hole in the bottom, about the size of a wine-cock ; place inside of it a wooden tub, having a similar hole, resting it upon three pieces of wood, which are to keep it l^rom touch- ing the bottom ; fill the space round the inner tub with pounded charcoal, and fit to the tub a cover having a convenient handle; place on the lid a circular flat bag of pounded charcoal, about six inches thick, that will cover it entirely, and over all put another wooden cover. When this apparatus is prepared, bury it for four-tiflhs of its height in the earth of a cold cellar that is dry, keeping it a few inches from the earth at the bottom by means of pieces of bricks. Fill the inner tub nearly with ice or snow beaten hard down, leaving room to place any vessel holding the substances to be iced. When the cover is taken off to place these in, care must be taken that it be replaced when the icing is finished; the congelation will in general be eflccted in half an hour. 3800. In London, ice is sometimes supplied to the confectioners almost daily in the summer from ice-cellars kept by persons who make this a business, and carry the ice round to the shops in carts. The ice is then put into a large tub in the cellar. The ice creams are made there in pewter vessels about a foot in depth and three inches in diameter; these are brought up into the shop, and placed in a wooden reservoir full of ice, with a cover, to supply customers. 3801. Ice-cold rooms would be found useful additions to the domestic offices of a man- sion. They might be connected with the ice-house, which should be considered as the focus of cold, and should always have double doors, double windows, and the walls should be built hollow for the purpose of preserving an even temperature. A small inner room might have a well to contain ice ; thus several degrees of cold might be obtained by dif- ferent apartments. The usual idea of an ice-house in England is, that it must be a detached building at a little distance from the house ; but, though this situation has some advantages, yet it is not absolutely necessary ; and it might often be more convenient to connect it with the pantries, or to place it in a cellar to which access might easily be had. 3S02. There are some curious facts respecting the frecninif of water, which, although not essential to our subject, it may be interesting to notice. This process begins by numerous minute spiculx appearing and shooting across the surface of the water, and always making angles with each other of 60° and 180°: as these accnmul.itc, the ice becomes more solid ; but its specific gravity is always one-ninth less than that of water, in "consequence of which it floats. Water in cooling becomes more dense, not at the freezing point, .'12°, as might be expected, but before it arrives at that point, as at about .19°; and in cooling still further down to ;)2°, it actu- ally expands, so as to be .at the e.amedegree of diuisity as it was at 3.'5°, expanding equally by cooling or heating below or above 38°. If water be exposed to cold and agitation, it cannot b(! cooled below 32° without freezing; but if the water be kept quite still in a large vessel, it may be cooled down to 2r)°, considerably below tlio freezing point, without becoming ice; if, however, any tremulous motion takes place, it instantly freezes, and the temperature then suddenlv rises to 32°. If water be confined in the bulb of a thermometer, it is very dimcult to freeze it by any cold mixture above 1.''°; but, if the cold be below that, it cannot be prevented from freezing. When cooled down to l.'i°, the water in the bulb remains perfectly transp.ircnt; but, if it accident- ally freezes, the congeLition is instantaneous, the bulb becoming in a moment opaque .and white like snow, and the ice Is nrojectod up into the stem. The freezing of water is an actual crystallisation, and these facts dejiend upon the laws which repulate tli.at natural process. The expansitm of ice in forming is a phenom(!non of gr(!at import.'inee, and is attributed to tho mode of tlio crystallisation, and not to tho ice inclosing air; for water parts with its air in becoming ice, and on tiiis X X