849 FURNITURE OF THE KITCHEN, ETC. Chap. IV. -B- fig. 7i3. I therefore, to issue out of it. Wlien the efTect of this conveying tube became publicly known, the exhibition I ceased, and tubes have since that time been very generally employed to convey the sound of the voice, as 1 above mentioned. 4798. A clock should never be omitted in a kitchen. For those who wish to be eco- nomical, a Dutch or German clock, with wooden wheels and ordinary weights, which may be had for 12*., and some of which perform remarkably well, will answer every practical purpose. The alarum which is frequently attached, and which can be set to go off at any required hour, may not be without its use 4799. A wine mia Gutter cooler ^fig. /42.) is often useful in some cool place adjoining the wine-cellar or ice-cellar, into which a quantity of ice may be put for daily use, and to which access can be easily had, for cooling wine and butter. It may be of wood lined with lead. Ice preservers.—For the description of these, see Book VIII. Chap. VII. " On cool- ''•'S- ing Liquors." 4800. Dish covers of metallic wire gauze are very useful for covering up meat, either 1 raw or cooked, to keep off flies, and yet give a view of what is below. 4801. Butler's trays are made of mahogany, and are more convenient to put away, occupying less room, when they are made to fold down, as in Jig. 743. When used, the sides are turned up and fixed by bolts. It is recommended that, though the sides may be of common Hon- duras, the bottom should be of Spanish, as the soft wood is too easily stained. 4802. Knife traijs are made with a partition in the centre, which serves the purpose of : a handle. 4803. Safes are necessary to keep meat in, whether raw or cooked, to defend it from I flies and other insects, particularly where there is no regular larder. They are portable (cupboards, generally of wood, with the panels of the doors and sides filled with some per- 1 forated substance to let the air in properlj^ but so as to preclude the entrance of flies, &c. ■ The most usual material for this purpose is what is called safe canvas. Iron wire is also (employed, not being liable to be gnawed by mice and rats; but this requires to be kept ■well painted in oil, otherwise it will soon decay by rust. The common wire cloth is ' woven by a machine : a stronger wire is woven by hand, but is more expensive, though imore durable. Perforated zinc plates are likewise employed for this purpose; and sates 1 made altogether of zinc are constructed for exportation to tropical climates, where the white ants frequently destroy those of wood. The comparative prices are : a small safe, with canvas, I.5.S.; one ditto with iron wire, 18s.; one ditto with zinc plates, 21s.; and one with wire woven by hand, 25s. 4804. An ice cooler {fig. 744.) is a useful addition to a larder for keeping meat, fish, butter, or other things very cool. It consists of a strong chest, having the sides of thick wood, or what is better, of two thicknesses of wood, with a space of an inch between, which may be filled -with charcoal dust, to make it a good non-conductor of heat. A quantity of ice must be laid upon the bottom ; and a little above this, there should be an iron grating to lay the meat and other articles upon. If required, there may be two of these gratings, sufficiently apart to admit of joints, &c. lying on the lower one, and there should also be a contrivance for lifting out these gratings ; a wooden cover shuts over the whole. To carry off the water that forms from the melting of the ice, there must be a waste-pipe from the bottom to communicate with the drain. This chest should not stand immediately upon the floor, but should be supported upon Rcveral small pieces of wood, that the heat may not be communicated from the floor to the bottom of the ice cooler, This will serve for vegetables as well as animal food. 3 I