700 Book VHI. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. observes : " We shall certainly never be able to discover how men were led to the use of the hot infusion of the leaves of a certain shrub (tea), or of a decoction of certain roasted seeds (colfee). Some cause there must be, which would explain how the practice has become a necessary of life to whole nations." General experience has proved that it is a valuable diluent, and particularly useful at the commencement of febrile complaints, and being of a slightly sedative and astringent quality, it is allowed to be peculiarly refreshing after great fatigue. Upon the whole, it is not shown by facts, that its effects upon the human constitution, when used in moderation, are of that injurious tendencj' that has been so frequently alluded to ; on the contrary, there is no doubt that among the lower classes in particular, its substitution for stronger stimulants has been extremely beneficial, and that its character has risen of late in the medical profession. It is perhaps less proper for breakfast, than for an evening refreshment; and it is not advisable to allow it as a constant morning meal for young people, who require something more nutritive. Strong green tea, however, has remarkable and injurious effects on certain constitutions, producing tremor, distressing feelings, and sleeplessness when taken at night; hence it has been employed by ardent students to resist the desire for sleep. 4019. Tea when chemically analysed is found to contain woody fibre, mucilage, a consi- derable quantity of the astringent principle or tannin, a narcotic principle, which is per- haps connected with a peculiar aroma. The tannin is shown by its striking a black colour with sulphate of iron, and is the cause of the dark stain which is always fomied when tea is spilt upon buff-coloured cottons dyed with iron. Irately a crystallisable and salefiable constituent has been found in tea, which has been called Theine, and is supposed to be identical with Caffeine, one of the constituents of coffee. Theine exists in tea in combination with tannin or tannic acid, forming tannate of theine, and is extracted by hot water, but precipitates on the water cooling. Liebig has conjectured that theine, from its containing nitrogen in its composition, and by its combination with oxygen and the elements of water yielding tmiriixe, the nitrogenised compound peculiar to bile, may con- tribute to the formation of that secretion, and hence may perform an important part in the function of nutrition. If this conjecture should prove well founded, it may account for this liquid appearing to possess more nutritive property than has been supposed ; why tea so often satisfies the poor as a substitute for animal food ; and why females and literary persons who take little exercise manifest such partiality for it; and it would likewise show why none of the substitutes for tea which have been tried have been found equal to it, being deficient in the theine. It does not appear quite certain whether green or black teas contain the greatest quantity of the astringent principle or tannin ; for the analysis of Sir H. Davy gave most to black tea, whereas that of Mr. Brande ascribes the most to the green ; the latter opinion is most generally received, though it is probable that the composition of both kinds of tea varies considerably in this respect Sect. V. ADULTERATION OF TEA. . 4020. Chinese tea has frequently been adulterated in this country by the admixture of the dried leaves of certain plants. The leaves of the sloe, white thorn, ash, elder, and some others, have been employed for this purpose. Other plants have likewise been mentioned, as the leaves of speedwell, wild germander, black currants, syringa, purple-spiked willow herb, sweet briar, and cherry tree. Some of these are harmless ; others are, to a certain degree, poisonous ; and the latter are the leaves of all the varieties of the plum and cherry tribe, to which the sloe belongs. Adulteration by means of these leaves is by no means a new species of fraud; and several acts of parliament from the time of George II. have been passed specifying severe penalties against those guilty of the offence, which, notwithstanding numerous convictioas, continues to the present time. To .such an extent had this illicit practice been carried, that it has been officially stated in a parliamentary reiiort that upwards of four millions of pomids weight of dried leaves were used aininally to mix with tea. A patent was even taken out for the prefiaratiou of Briti.sh leaves .as a substltiUo for tea. and extensive works were erected for the manufacture: bnt it was soon discovered that the leaves so prepared lomid their way to the grocers, who era|)loyed them in adulterating foreign tea, upon which the manufacture was '"Ft'iTlnMio means easy to detect adulterations of this kind. The host mode is to employ the knowledge of the botanist by moistening and spreading out carefully, and drying fl.at the suspected leaves, and then com- i)aring their form with that of genuine tea leaves. Tlio leaves ol' the sloe are not qmte so long, a little roomier in their form, and not so deeply serrated or notched ; but their general resemblaiice is so nearlj that of tea leaves, that few. exceptbot.inists, could distniguish them ; tlieir astnngency is greater '^^'f]^'^'^}°l^^^';, and though the leaves are poisonous, thiit is not the case witli the friiit, which has been used to adulterate ''"■irhese'liaves are not the only poisonous substances used ; from the evidence given, it appears, attempt to imitate green tea, venligris, and, what is worse carbonate of copper, a strong i;"V^° '•. "'^ employed to give the.n the colour of genuine green tea. 1 he carbonate of copper may be d-^^tc<;'ed an infusion, and putting some Into water impregnated willi sulphuretted hydrogen ; the water will acquire a