513 SPICES. Chap. X. I of essential oil of a very pungent quality, in wliich their efficiency consists, and this is procured by distillation : it is said tliat the Dutch sometimes extract part of this oil, ; and then mix the deteriorated cloves with fresh ones, from -which they imbibe some of ■what they contain. Cloves are also very liable to imbibe water, which increases their • weight. 2860. Cloves are employed more for their flavour than for their medicinal qualities : but 1 they are likewise very powerful stimulants of the stomach, and are used, but with caution, i in conjunction with bitters. They yield their medicinal and other qualities to water and ! to alcohol. 2861. According to Tronisdorff, 1000 parts of cloves contain 180 of volatile oil ; 40 (extract scarcely soluble; 130 gum; 60 resin; 280 woody fibre, and 180 water. The 'volatile oil of cloves might be advantageously employed instead of the dried clove in c culinary processes. Sect. V. ' NUTMEG {Myristica moschatd). 2862. This is also a native of the spice islands the Moluccas, and the monopolising i spirit of the Dutch was long enabled to keep the cultivation of it to themselves, !by extirpating it from all the islands except Banda, where it is chiefly grown, the vwhole of the plantations being in the possession of their government. But while the I English had possession of the spice islands, plants were carried to Penang and Bencoolen, twhere they now flourish, and produce a considerable quantity of nutmegs. Sir Stamford IRafiles states that they are also largely cultivated in Sumatra. Attempts have likewise "been made to introduce them into the West Indies, not altogether without success. The t tree is not unlike the pear. It bears fruit all the year round. 2863. The exterior part of the fruit is a pulpy substance, sometimes brought to table in I India as a preserve ; within this is a thin shining black shell surrounded by membranous iilayers, which constitute another of our spices, the Mace, and within the shell is the ;inutmeg. To prepare them, the pulp is cleared off, and the mace separated by a knife ; I the nuts are then dried in the sun, and afterwards by the fire ; by this the shell becomes I brittle, and the kernel within shrinks, which admits of the nuts being broken without rinjuring the nutmeg. They are then soaked in sea water, and impregnated with lime to (idestroy the vegetating power and keep away insects : but Mr. Crawford observes that i the natives, if left to themselves, transport them in the shell, whch is by far the best lanode. 2864. There are two sorts of nutmeg; one wild, which is long or oval shaped, and nmuch inferior : the cultivated nutmeg is nearly round : the best are firm, hard, and of an iiunctuous consistence, the odour strong, aromatic and agreeable ; taste hot and acrid. \\Vhen cut across, they appear full of dark veins, which contain much volatile oil. 2865. This oil is yielded by distillation, and it possesses the flavour of the nutmeg in per- fifection, two drops being nearly equal to a pound of the powder; this is made from the 1 broken kernels ; and it is said that the nutmegs are sometimes punctured and boiled for :the purpose of extracting the oil, the holes being filled up with sassafras : it is one of the iifew oils of tropical climates that are lighter than water. It is employed in medicine. ^ 2866. 77ie nutmeg is much used as a condiment; but Dr. A. Thomson observes that if ::taken in large quantity, it is found to have narcotic efiects, and to produce symptoms lindicating great determination to the head, on which account it should be cautiously used ian apoplectic and paralytic habits. 2867. TTie analysis of M. Bonastre shows nutmeg to contain in 100 parts, 24 of an iiinsoluble white matter (stearine) ; 7-6 of an insoluble coloured butter (elaine) ; 6-2 of a vvolatile oil; 0-6 of an acid; 2 -4 of fecula ; 1 -2 of gum ; and 58 -0 of ligneous matter. Sect. VI. MACE. 2868. Mace is the reddish membrane surrounding the shell which contains the nutmeg. It i4s dried previous to packing tight in bags. Its general qualities are the same as those of r nutmeg; it has an agreeable aromatic odour, and a hot, biting taste. According to MMr. Henry it contains a small quantity of volatile oil; a large quantity of a yellow, odorous, iifixed oil, soluble in ether, but insoluble even in boiling alcohol; a nearly equal quantity of :ii red odorous fixed oil, soluble both in ether and alcohol; a gummy matter forming nearly ai third of the weight of the mace; and a small quantity of woody matter. LI