HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. Al'. VI. 49 1182. When liyht alone is required for offices where it is not convenient to see through ■ glass, ground glass, or wavy or granulous glass, is used : to imitate the former >iinomicaUy, the effect may be produced very nearly by dexterously applying a lump of jzier's putty, or even thin size and whiting, or boiled starch. SuBSECT. 6. — Chimney-pieces. 1183. Chimney-pieces are decorations surrounding the openings of chimney fire-places. In ': principal apartments they are usually ornamented more or less with sculpture, and •vy form a principal feature in English houses. Rules have been sometimes given by iiiters on architecture, for proportioning the size of the openings of chimneys to the size tlhe apartments ; but such rules are not founded upon any principle that can be admitted, iiie use of the fire-place is to warm the apartment, and as the mode of accomplishing this eect has varied through improvements in the nature of the fuel, and the way of using it, I the size of the chimney opening has been subject to change, and the decorations Trounding this opening have been modified accordingly. Ifn the time of Queen Elizabeth, when wood was the fuel, the chimney opening was L'ge, and the chimney-piece reached nearly to the top of the room. In after times, when lil became the fuel, and Grecian architecture came into fashion, the size of the chimney i-ening was reduced, and the chimney-piece partook of the general style of the apartment: II for a long time the mouldings and ornaments were of a massive kind. About fifty iirs ago the modern French taste began to be imitated here, and great elegance has i-en attempted in the design and execution of chimney-pieces suited to our im- oved fire-grates. In consequence of Count Rumford's principle of lowering the fire I'felf, the cornice of the chimney-pieces have descended to a convenient height for placing laaments upon them. In the best apartments chimney-pieces are always of marble, hher white or coloured, the first being the most usual in the drawing room, and the latter { libraries and dining rooms. Those in inferior apartments and ofiices are of various I'lterials, as Portland stone, slate, or even wood which may be painted and sanded: cast i&n is likewise sometimes employed. Chimney-pieces of all kinds may be economically rrchased ready made at the show rooms of stone masons and sculptors : but in the best uuses they are generally designed by the architects. SuBSECT. 7. —House painting. I House painting is practised, not only for decoration, but likewise for the preservation of ee woodwork. 1184. The application of oil painting to our houses is a very great improvement upon ea practice of our ancestors, and has come into general use only since about the gginning of the last century. Before that time the wood-work, both within and without, as uncovered with paint; and we still see the effect of this in very old houses. Oak qquired a very dark sombre colour ; and when deal was first introduced, it not being the Jttctice to paint it, the effect was worse, as it contracted dirt, without admitting of being so ssily cleaned by polishing and brushing as oak. Oil paint not only preserves woodwork lom decay, but has the advantage of being easily cleaned by soap and water; and when last that fails, the painting may be renewed at a small expense, thus preserving a rrpetual freshness in our apartments, conducive at once to health and cheerfulness. The ■aactice of house painting has given rise to a taste for cleanliness and elegance in our Tellings that could not otherwise have been so well attained. 1185. There are various kinds of painting, according to the nature of the vehicles nmployed for the colours: as oil painting, distemper, and fresco. 1186. Oil painting being the most important as applied to our domestic buildings, we iiall commence by describing it; and first of its materials. i 187. White lead forms the basis of this kind of paint, to which are added a certain Kiantity of various pigments when different tints of colour are required. 188. White lead is made in the following manner. Sheets of lead are rolled up spirally, so • to leave the space of about an inch between each coil, and then are placed vertically in inrthern pots, with a ledge in them to support the lead. In the bottom of each pot is Time good malt vinegar, or pyroligneous acid. 'I'lie pots are then covered, and placed in 'ibed of horse-dung, or of tanner's bark. The vapour of (he vinegar oxidizes the surface of we lead, and converts the oxide into the diacetate of lead ; wiiilst the carbonic acid, which extricated in consequence of the fermentation of the dung, rapidly decomposes this iiacetate, and converts it into a.carl)tmate of lead, which appears as a white crust up(m the inrface of the sheets of lead. The finest part of this comes off in flakes, forming what is iliUed flake white, which is the best of the lead, and is employed only in painting oil iiictures : this is collected, ground in water, made into lumps, and di'ied by stoves. The