717 CHOCOLATE AND COCOA. Chap. XII. / CHAP. XII. CHOCOLATE AND COCOA. 4095. Both these preparations are made from the seeds or beans of the Cacao tree, which grows in the West Indies and South America. The Spanish, and the proper name, is cacao, not cocoa as it is generally spelled; from this mistake, the tree from which the beverao-e is procured has been often confounded with the palm that produces the edible cocoa nuts, which are the produce of the cocoa tree {Cocos nncifera), whereas the tree from which chocolate is procured is very different (the Theobroma Cacao). The cocoa tree was cultivated by the aboriginal inhabitants of South America, particularly in Mexico, where, according to Humboldt, it was reared by Montezuma. It was transplanted thence into other dependencies of the Spanish monarchy in 1520 ; and it was so highly esteemed by Linnaeus as to receive from him the name now conferred upon it of Theobroma, a term derived from the Greek, and signifying "foodfor Gods." The Mexican name was chocolati, whence the term chocolate. The trees are raised from seed, and grow to the height of about twenty feet, resembling a young cherry tree ; and do not come into bearing until six or seven years old, but then they bear leaves, flowers, and fruit all the year round ; the leaves are about four inches long, pointed, and of a dull gi-een ; the flowers safiFron-coloured and beautiful. The trees grow in morassy situations, and are sheltered by larger trees. Their cultivation is very easy re- quiring little attention beyond gathering the fruit when ripe. The cocoa beans are contained in pods something like a roundish cucumber deeply furrowed, about five inches long and three wide. Jig. 603., each pod a, containing from twenty to fifty beans, according to the particular variety and country where they grow, about the size of almonds, imbedded in a reddish-white pithy sub- stance, like that of a water melon. The pod is smooth on the outside, green when young, but when ripe variously coloured. The beans are enveloped by a thin skin or pellicle, of a brown colour, which is taken off before they are converted into chocolate. The kernel is divided into several portions, which do not adhere together, and which easily come to pieces when the skin is removed. In the West Indies, when the fruit is ripe, the beans are taken out of the pulp, spread out to dry, and put into bags for exportation ; but in the Caraccas they are subjected to a species of slight fermentation, by which they lose a good deal of their acrimony and bitter- ness, and acquire more aromatic flavour. It appears that there are several species of the ca<:ao or cocoa bean, and that these differ much in their qualities. The Mexican is con- sidered the best, but it seldom comes to Europe ; that from Guatemala is much esteemed, and the beans are larger. The West Indian cocoa is among the least valuable kinds, being very oily. Chocolate has always been a favourite beverage among the Spaniards and Creoles, and was considered here as a great luxury when first introduced, after the discovery of America; but the high duties laid upon it here confined it long almost entirely to the ■wealthier classes. Before it was subjected to that duty, Mr. Bryan Edwards stated that cocoa plantations were numerous in Jamaica, but that the duty caused their almost entire ruin. The removal of this duty has increased their cultivation. 4096. The cocoa bean has been analysed by Lampadius ; the kernels of West Indian cocoa contain, in 100 parts, some water, 53 01 of a fat oil, 167 of a brown albuminous substance that contains the aroma, 10'91 of starch, 7-75 of gum, 0-9 of woody fibre, and 2-01 of a reddish matter that would serve as a dye stuff". The husks of the beans form 12 per cent, of their weight; they contain no fat, but consist of woody fibre and a brown muci- laginous extract. The fat or oil which the cocoa nut contains, called butter of cocoa, may be extracted by steaming the nuts, or soaking them in boiling water, and subjecting them to strong pressure in canvas bags, or by skimming it off' the water when cold. It is of the consistence of tallow, is of a mild agreeable taste, has a reddish tinge when first expressed, but it becomes white by boiling in water. From five to six ounces of the butter may be obtained from a pound of cocoa ; it is not apt to become rancid like fats in general ; it serves in some places to make candles, as it melts only at 122°, but it is not used here ; in France it is employed for making soap. Recently a principle has been discovered in the cocoa bean very similar to caffeine.