ON FOOD. 426 Book VIL of sensation, and llicn give lilm a transverse cut just below the gills, and crimp him by cutting to the bone on each side, so as almost to divide him Into slices ; and now hold hini by the tall that he may bleed. There is a small S|)ring, I see, close under that bank, which, I dare say, has the mean temperature of the atmosphere in this clnnato, and is much under 80°,— place him there, .ind let him remain for ten minutes, and then carry him to the pot, and let the water and salt boil furiously before you put in a slice, and give time to the water to recover its heat before you tlirow iu another, and so with the whole fish, and leave the head out. and throw in the thickest pieces first." The rationale of this process of crimping is thus given; " I conclude, that the fat of salmon between the flakes is mixed with much albumen and gelatine, and is extremely liable to decompose, and by keeping it cool the decomposition is retarded, and l)y the boiling salt and water, which is of a higher temperature than that of common boiling water, the albumen is coagulated, and the curdiness preserved. The crimping, by preventing the irritability of the fibre from being gradually exhausted, seems to preserve it so hard and crisp, that it breaks under the teeth ; and a fresh fish not crimped is generally trout." Salmon crimped in this manner, which preserves the natural taste, should have no other sauce than a spoonful of the salt and water in which it has been boiled, with the addition of a little lemon juice (or, if that cannot be had, vinegar) and pepper. Some persons, however, object to the curdy state of the fish, and prefer it when it has been kept for a day or two, when the curd has partly softened into oil, which gives a richer taste." 2220. Salmon is seldom taken by the angler in the south part of Britain; but in Scotland, as well as in Ireland and Wales, fishing it by the line is much practised, and affords much amusement. SuBSECT. 2.— The Salmon Trout (Salmo triitta, Linn.). 2221. This, called also the sea trout, appears to connect the salmon and the tront. It, like the salmon, frequents both the sea and rivers, ascending the latter to spawn. It is chiefly found in the rivers of mountainous countries, and is frequent in Wales and the lake district of England. It seldom exceeds a foot in length, but is a very delicious fish. t SuBSECT. 3.— The Bull Trout (Salmo eriox. Linn.). 2222. This fish is not held in such estimation as the salmon or salmon trout, but sometimes attains the weight of fifteen or even twenty pounds. Few are sent to the London market. SuBSECT. 4. — The common Trout (Salmo fario, Linn.). 2223. This fish is an inhabitant of clear and cold streams and lakes in most parts of Europe, and is less rich and oUy than the salmon, but is esteemed a great delicacy for the table. It is supposed that there are several varieties; the colour of the flesh of some being reddish, of others yellowish, and of some it is white; the first are generally preferred. The female is of a brighter colour, and more beautiful than the male. It swims rapidly, often, like the salmon, leaping to a great height in ascending the rivers. They are in season during the summer months, or from the end of February till August, but are best in May and June, and afibrd great sport to the angler. They are of more quick growth than any fish except the salmon, but do not live to a great age : the duration of its life is supposed not to exceed eight or ten years. Its general length, when full grown, is about twelve or fifteen inches. When trout are in season, the scales .are very bright and silvery ; they should be cleaned and gutted when they are to be sent to any place, and closely packed, lying on their backs in a willow basket with dry straw; grass or rushes are apt to heat and spoil the fish. Before being dressed, they are much improved by crimping, and epicures direct that they should be killed by a blow on the head the moment they are taken out of the water. When the trout have arrived at home, lay them on cold stones until wanted ; they should be dressed the day they are caught, and never put to soak or soften over the fire in cold water, as is the general practice. If trout are suffered to remain in water after being sufficiently boiled, they will directly become soft, and lose all the firmness given them by crimping. They should be boiled in water with a handful of salt put in. Salt water acquires more heat than fresh, and consequently hardens the curdy matter of the fish more. Trout feed well in stews, and will attain the weight of a dozen or fifteen potmds. ScBSECT. 5. — Samlet. 2224. A fish, called the par-r or samlet, about five inches in length, appears in our rivers in autumn, and has been supposed by some to be a distinct species; but it has been made out by Mr. Shaw that it is nothing more nor less than the fry of the salmon. SuBSECT. 6 Charr (Salmo alpinus, Linn.). 222.5. This delicious little fish, which is considered as superior to the salmon, inhabits deep lakes in alpine countries, even those which are extremely cold, and covered with ice lialf the year. Its flesh is rich, extremely red, and full of curd or fat A few arc found in certain laltes in Wales; but the largest and most beautiful are in the