BREWING. ClIAP. III. Most of the acids unite with alcohol by the assistance of heat, and form the substances called clheis. Albumen and muscular fibre are not dissolved by alcohol; on the C(mtrary, they are coagulated, hardened, and contracted by it; and milk is speedily curdled by it. It likewise dissolves soap, wax, and spermaceti. 3131. When analysed, alcohol is found, in 100 parts, to consist of hydrogen 13'64 ; carbon G8-18 ; oxygen 18-18. CHAP, ni BREWING. Sect. I. INTRODUCTION. 3132. Breiving, or the art of preparing malt liquors, -was formerly considered as a more important part of domestic economy than it is in the present day, when the great increase of public establishments for this purpose has considerably diminished the necessity for private brewing. This, however, is chiefly confined to towns ; in the country, many private families still brew their own beer, and there are many good reasons why this custom should still be adhered to. 3133. In treating on this sttbject, it might be perhaps expected that certain practical rules founded on the best experience, should at once be laid dowTi, exhibiting the perfec- tion of the art. But unfortunately this is not possible. Not only are the best receipts for practice kept secret by professed brewers, but it does not appear that these are agi-eed among themselves respecting many unportant points. We are correctly informed by a writer in the " Library of Useful Knowledge," that the practical instructions for brewing ale and beer, as given by different " persons, are by no means uniform. The cause is obvious. The mode of manufacture, and consequently the quality, dilfer in every age and country : and even in tlie sam.e nation, the ale of one district has little resemblance to that of another.'*—" He who has seen only one of the modes of brewing can have no conception of their number and variety. One shall mash three or four times, while another shall do so but once. A second shall pitch his tun at 80°, when others do so at 4n°, the former cleansing in twenty-four hours, and the latter waiting three or four weeks for the finishing of the fermentation. One class of brewers attend chiefly to the attenuation, are minute in the heats of their fermentation, weighing the yeast witli the utmost care ; while there are many gentlemen (at the same time, priding themselves on the goodness of their ale), who turn the worts into the barrels boiling hot, bung them up, and stow them for a year in their cellars, without any yeast at all. Each of these modes of brewing may be considered as producing a different species of ale ; .and each species has its varieties depending on natural or accidental circumstances, such as the water, or the skill of the brewer, which add to its preservative qualities and give certain adventitious flavours." 3134. It is necessary, therefore, for every one who wishes really to understand the art of brewing, to study its principles, and not be contented with the mere routine practice of any one person or place. 3135. With this view we have divided this treatise into two parts: in the first part, we shall describe the principles and operations of brewing, including a view of the chemical theory, as well as the general practice of the art, which we have kept together so that one shall throw light upon the other : this we considered essential for those who are desirous of studying the subject scientifically. In the second, called " practical directions," we shall describe the practice only with all the minute particulars necessary to be observed. This separation we found necessary, since many persons may desire to see all the principal points to be attended to in practice, without going much into the theory; and had the whole been blended together, it would have been almost impossible to have distinguished the simple practical processes alone amidst so much theoretical explanation; the theory would also thus have been encumbered with numerous fatiguing practical details. This arrangement has indeed rendered some repetition unavoidable; but we trust it will be found advantageous, although, without this explanation, it might have been thought unnecessary. If the reader has perused with attention the article " On Fermentation," it will assist him much in comprehending what we shall say on this subject. 3136. Brewing has been, often practised successfully by persons who possessed 7io scientific knowledge, and excellent beer and ale have been made in various parts of the country by our ancient dames, to whom the name of science was scarcely known. It might there- fore be doubted whether there is any advantage to be expected by considering the sub- ject in a scientific manner. The reply to this is easy. No theoretical knowledge can wholly supply the place of that which is the result of experience; but it may materially assist it, and more particularly with those who have had but little practice, to whom a work such as the present is chiefly addressed. An acquaintance with the theory of any