97.5 COTTON FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. CUAP. IV. wire-work. Before the invention of this last machine, the cotton was beaten with switches, which is still practised with the finest kinds. The cotton is now taken to the spreading or lappinij machine, the effect of which is to spread it out equally into a broad soft fleece-like wadding, and to roll it upon a roller, so as to be in a proper state to be conveyed to the carding machine. 5744. The object of the carding operation is to separate the fibres, which, in their im- ported state, are entangled in small tufts and knots, and which have been but imperfectly opened by the last operations; by carding they are drawn in a parallel direction, and all residuary impurities are removed. The cards are a kind of brushes formed of little bent pieces of wire fixed in leather, which is attached to wood. At first, these cards were flat, and were worked by hand; but they are now made in the form of cylinders, which move against each other with different degrees of velocity, being turned by machinery. By the carding machine the cotton is likewise brought into the forms of a sort of ribands called card ends or slivers, preparatory to spinning. Tlte Spinning of Cotton. 5745. The spinning of cotton is that part of the manufacture which has gone through the greatest revolutions ; and these have led to an extraordinary change in the production of cotton cloth. Previously to the year 1760, the cotton manufacture of England was nearly as simple as that of India, though the loom was better constructed, and the carding of the cotton had been imitated from the wool manufacture. The spinning of cotton was all performed in this country on the one-thread wheel (see " Spinning," Book XVII. Chap. I.), nearly in the same manner as wool, a process far too slow to supply the weavers with weft in sufficient quantity to enable them to answer the demand for cotton cloth ; and the weft spun of cotton by hand in this manner was a very irregular thread, produced by women, of various degrees of skill. The spinning was effected by the female part of numerous cottagers dispersed through the country, while the families were employed in weaving the yarn or thread into cloth; this, when finished, was disposed of to agents sent Aund by the Manchester merchants. But the weaver's own family seldom could supply him with a sufficient quantity of weft; and he had, with much pains, to collect it from neighbouring spinsters, which occasioned a loss of time, and greater expense for yarn. This difficulty was likewise aggravated by an invention which John Kay had made in 1738, of a machine called the "fly shuttle," by which the process of weaving was expedited, enabling the weaver to make twice the quantity of cloth in a certain time ; but it was only in 1760 that this invention was adopted in cotton weaving. 5746. The first great improvement in the manufacture of cottons, was the construction of a machine called the spinning jenny, by which, instead of one spindle and one thread at a time, a single person could spin eight threads at once with the same facility as one. This ingenious piece of mechanism is generally ascribed to James Hargreaves, a weaver in Lancashire, in 1767 ; and it was subsequently so improved that a little girl could work from eighty to one hundred and twenty spindles. The spindle in the common wool and cotton wheel was always horizontal, but the spindles in the jenny were upright, or very slightly inclined from the vertical, a position essential to its due operation. But the jenny was applicable only to the spinning of cotton for weft, being unable to give to the yarn that degree of firmness and hardness which is required in the warp : consequently, although it made up for the slowness of the common wheel, enabling the weavers to produce much more cloth, still this cloth remained, as before, composed of a linen warp and cotton weft, and no goods could yet be made all of cotton. Hargreaves contented himself, for some time after, with spinning weft, with the assistance of his family, for his own loom, receiving his warp, according to the custom of the weavers of that time, from the wholesale manufacturers. The secret of his invention at length, however, transpired ; and the facility and quickness with which yarn could be produced by its means, excited such a tumult among the neighbouring spinsters, that they broke into his house in a riotous manner, and destroyed his machines. He then removed to Nottingham, took out a patent for his machine, and dispersed them through the district. It has been said that he died in poverty, but it appears froih the account by Mr. Baines (to whose excellent work we are indebted for many of the facts detailed respecting the cotton manufacture) that this is an error, and that he was enabled to leave a decent provision for his family. Still no fabric could be executed entirely of cotton, and another invention was wanted to produce cotton yarn sufficiently firm for the warp of cloth. 5747. The discovery in 1768, from which only can be dated the proper manuficliire of cotton cloth in England, was made by Arkwright, afterwards Sir RirJiard, a native of Lan- cashire, and who, though originally a barber, and uneducated, yet possessed a strong natural genius for mechanics. It has been said that he was not solely the inventor of his machines; but this statement has probably originated from the assistance he obtained