Book XXII. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 1082 6467. The starch made with us for the use of the laundry is procured from two vege- tables only, wheat and potatoes. 6468. Starch from wheat is manufactured as follows :—It is not necessary that the grain should be ground into flour. The entire corn, well cleaned, is soaked in cold water until the husk easily separates ; and the grains, having become quite soft, give out a milky fluid by pressure. The wheat is then taken out of the water, put into coarse linen sacks, and transferred to another vat with water, where it is subjected to pressure. The milky juice exudes and mixes with the water ; and when the whole has been pressed out, the sacks and their contents are removed. On the whole standing still, the starch precipitates to the bottom ; but will not be quite pure, as it holds a small quantity of the gluten of the wheat, though the greatest part of this remains in the sacks. In order to free the starch from this gluten, the whole is suffered to stand still for about ten days in summer, and fifteen days in winter. During this time a fermentation takes place, owing to the following cause. Dissolved in the water, there is a little saccharine mucilage, which is also one of the principles of the wheat: it is this that begins the fermentation, which is of the acetous kind, and in consequence, a small quantity of sour liquor or vinegar is produced. This acetous acid acts upon the gluten and dissolves it, but not the starch ; which is therefore freed from the other matters. After this fermentation has continued long enough, the starch subsides to the bottom quite pure, and the water is let off. The starch, well washed by several waters, is dried by a gentle heat, first in the open air, and afterwards in an oven, during which it cracks into those irregularly columnar forms in which it appears when sold ; and which have had a slight tinge of blue given to them in the manufactory to overcome any tendency to a yellow coloui' which they might possess. Very fine starch is imported from Poland and from France ; usually consi- dered to be superior to the Engpsh, which is not unfrequently adulterated. 6469. Lately a very superior kind of starch has been made from rice, which, it is said, has some advantages over wheat starch ; particularly that of not causing the linen to stick to the iron in ironing. 6470. Starch made from potatoes is not equal to that from wheat; but is found useful upon occasion. 6471. To make potato starch, procure some of the best mealy potatoes and a common bread grater. Wash the potatoes, grate them into a pan or clean tub of water, and stir the pulpy mass well about in the water: after a little time the thickest part will sub- side to the bottom ; then pour off the white water, keeping back aU the pulp. Add some more water to the pulp, stir again, and pour the whitened water off as before. Repeat this process with more water as long as the water comes off whitish. Let the whitened water that was poured off remain at rest some time, and the white part will settle to the'bottom, leaving the water quite clear. This subsided matter is the starch. Pour oft' the water, and dry the starch in the sun; it will generally weigh one-fifth of the best potatoes. Here fermentation is not necessary ; because potatoes having no gluten like wheat, the starch is pure at once. This kind of starch, though it answers for some domestic purposes nearly as well as wheat starch, is sensibly different; it sets or becomes a jelly with a degree of heat somewhat lower than wheat starch, and is more apt to become moist in damp weather : but it is said to go rather farther than common starch, a smaller quantity being sufficient for the purpose of the laundress. It is, however, but little used. 6472. A tolerable starch has been viade from horse chesnuts by the following process; although it is now out of use. The prickly husk of the chesnnt being removed, all the coloured skin must be pared off, aud the chesnuts are rasped, bruised, or ground very fine in water and well stirred. The white water is then poured off and suffered to stand till the starch settles to the bottom. This, if not quite white, is again mixed with water, and passed through a flannel tammy or muslin sieve, and left to subside as before : by repeating this process as is found necessary, the starch is obtained, and is afterwards dried for use. A patent was granted in 1796 to Lord W. Murray for this process. 6473. Powder and stone blue, used in washing linen, is a kind of coarse smalt, prepared abroad, and brought here either in the state of powder or lumps. Smalt is a glass coloured blue by zaffre or oxide of cobalt, and reduced to a fine powder. The use of blue to the laundress is to mix with starch to destroy the yellow tint that the latter is apt to impart; and in general, when the linen is ill coloured, a little blue neutralises the yellow brown, and makes it appear to be more white.