Book J I. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. 66 may be named stove grates. A gi'eat number of these of various constructions have been jiut up in England of late ; but they are very ineffective, and extremely unwholesome, from the air issuing through the register being vitiated by the heated iron. When heated air is introduced from them by way of assisting an open fire, it is of little use, for tlie following reason: as soon as it enters the room by the register on the mantle- shelf, it rises to the ceiling, instead of readily diffusing itself through the rest of the air in the apartment; and is, in reality, worse, than nothing, adding scarcely any thing to the temperature, but contributing a quantity of disagreeable effluvia: these contrivances are, accordingly, now nearly laid aside. 373. Of the very unwholesome nature of air made hot by iron, we have an instructive account in a late examination by Dr. Ure, into the cause of the indisposition and disease which prevailed among the officers in the long-room of the Custom-house. The hot air was discharged from two stone tunnels at from 9.0° to 110°, but diluted afterwards with cold till about G0° or 62° : yet the effects experienced were very distressing, and the air was found seriously to affect the constitutions of numerous individuals of various ages and temperaments. In one room, where the air that issued was 170°, it is described as resem- bling in its properties the simoon of the desert, possessing, in an eminent degree, the dryness and disagreeable smell imported to air by the action of red-hot iron. " As cast iron," Dr. Ure observes, " contains, besides the metal itself, more or less carbon, sulphur, phosphorus, and even arsenic, it is possible that the smell of the air passed over it in an incandescent state, may be owing to some of these imperfections ; for a quantity of noxious effluvia}, inappreciably small, is capable of affecting not only the olfactory nerves, but the pulmonary organs." There is another objection to the warming apartments with hot air, in the mode in which it has been usually practised ; which is, that the supply of hot air is fi-equently irre- gular, comingoften in currents, or puffs; and a currentof hot air is equally injurious to health as a current of cold air. Heating by steam or hot water is far more even and regular. 374. Nor, independently of the usual unhealtliiness of air much heated, is the danger from fire to he overlooked in this system. In a complication of flues and pipes passing through the various parts of a private dwelling, some of the flues for the smoke will perhaps pass near to woodwork, and the smallest crack or defect in the workmanship, which scarcely any care in the superintendents can guard against, may occasion intense heat, and even flame, to be carried to parts where it may be dangerous. We may instance the lament- able destruction of the Houses of Parliament, among others, which have been occasioned by the hot-air system ; to which we add, that it is now believed that many conflagrations have been occasioned by similar causes. 375. But there is another way in which heated, or rather loarmed, air, may be employed, and that advantageously. If it be warmed in a separate chamber, by means of steam or hot- water pipes, and then introduced into apartments, such air, if originally pure, will continue to be perfectly salubrious ; this method of moderately warming it not injuring its quality, as has been already explained when treating of the modes of warming by steam and hot water. The chief difficulty here is to find means of introducing it; for it must be evident that it is impossible to throw in such warmed air, except an equal quantity of cold air can be abstracted : this operation must, therefore, be connected with artificial ventilation, and will probably be found too complicated and expensive for ordinary domestic purposes, though very suitable for large public buildings, as may be instanced in the new houses of Parliament, which arc warmed upon this principle. Sect. VII. WARMINC. BY GAS. 376. Coal gas is aba occasionally employed to warm tlie interior of buildings. A flame has no efi'ect in warming the air surround- ing it, as was explained under " Heat; " where it was stated that radiant heat could not warm the air it passed through. But when flame strikes on a solid substance, the latter is heated, and then communicates its heat to the air in contact with it, which, ascending, gives place to another portion to be warmed in the same manner. The gas stove is made upon this principle. A circle of gas flame near the floor is made to play upon the out- side of a hollow inverted metal cone, a, fig. 75., which is open at bottom, and surrounded by the cylinder, h b, standing upon three feet, but open all round the bottom. The air within the cone is heated by the metal, and rises up, permitting a fresh ])ortion to succeed it, whicli enters from the open bottom ; and tlie heated air comes out into the room by the apertures, c. Fig. IT,.