1129 Chap. I. CONSTRUCTION OF STABLES. cient inclination for the drains and secure perfect dryness ; the approach to the door may be a very gentle ascent. 6710. The ventilation of the stable is the next thing of importance we shall consider, since, if this is not provided for in the construction of the building, it is not easy to effect it properly afterwards. Before the subject of physiology was rendered popvdar, and the nature of respiration understood, by which the necessity of pure air for health is rendered evident, people never thought of admitting fresh air into a stable, as they had no notion of its use. In fact, they did all they could to exclude it, by closing up every aperture by which a breath of fresh air might find admission. The horse was confined in a sort of hot- house, the air of which was so offensive, that it was with ditficulty the grooms could bear it. The bad effect of hot stables is now pretty generally understood, but still many do not know the difference between common air simply heated, and air heated and mixed with other noxious gases. Those persons confound a hot stable with a foul one, whereas one might exist without the other,- although the two qualities of being over-heated and being foid with noxious air are generally united. We would recommend the reader to study what we have said on the subject of venti- lation ; he will then perceive that the atmosphere which we breathe, when deprived of its vital principle through the act of respiration, whether of men or horses, is unfit for the support of life, becoming noxious, and in fact a poison, which, when mingled with the rest of the air, renders it unwholesome. It is necessary, therefore, to get rid of this foul air, so that it shall not be respired again, and to introduce fresh air that possesses the property so essential to life. But merely heating the air without breathing it does not deprive it of this vital principle, and air may therefore be warmed to a considerable degree, without being at all unfit to be breathed. As, however, the foul air that comes from the lungs is always warm, this expired air is one of the chief causes of the high temperature of stables in which horses are confined, and in this case air so warmed is rendered unwholesome. It is as necessary that horses should breathe pure air as human beings, and that the gas which is ejected from their lungs should pass out of the stable, while at the same time an equal quantity of pure air is introduced into it. Fortunately this noxious air, being lighter than the cold air, rises at first to the ceiling, and when proper apertures are made there for its escape, it will find its way out, while cool and fresh air will force its way into the stable at the lower part to supply its place. 6711. The air of stables is not only deteriorated by the breathing of the animals, but it is farther contaminated by emanations from the body, as well as by the noxious ammoniacal vapours arising from the urine and dung. This may be easily perceived on entering the stable in the morning, when not only an oppressive but a pungent ammoniacal smell is perceived, resembling that of hartshorn, of which, indeed, the urine of the horse contains a large quantity. These vapours are hurtful to the lungs of the horse, and still more particularly to its eyes, and are no doubt the source frequently of blindness and many of his diseases. The grooms likewise are known to suffer in their health from the ammoniacal vapours in the stables. 6712. TJie most effectual mode of managing the ventilation of a stable is by having large trunks or tubes of board, about a foot square, to pass thi'ough the ceiling and roof into the open air, having their tops covered in such a way that the heated air can go out but no rain come in. If it is impossible to send them out through the middle of the ceiling, they may be carried out just beneath it through the wall; and it will be best if there be a tube to each stall, as at a in the section, fig. 890. ; or windows with luffer-boards, to be opened or shut as may be required, may be placed at convenient situations. It is to be observed, that no air can go out except an equal quantity be admitted to supply its place, as the stable must at all times be equally full of air; therefore apertures for the admission of fresh air should be made somewhere at the lower part of the stable, where the draught will be least prejudicial. In a small stable, the bottom of the door will do for this, if a board be placed below the aperture in it slanting so as to direct the current of air that enters upwards, instead of its coming horizontally, which might strike upon the legs of the horses. In larger stables, where more fresh air is required, numerous small apertures are better than one large, placed in such manner that the air cannot reach the horse as cold currents, which may be injurious to him ; they should be so contrived that the air admitted may soon mix with the rest. 6713. It is customary in the morning to open all the doors and windows to ventilate the stable when it has been shut up all night; but this, though often useful and proper when the horses are out, is not enough; for means should be provided by which a continual slow change of air may be going on, and which should act of itself without any attention from the groom or his assistants, and yet that the change should not be so great as to render the stable cold. When the ceiling of the stable is flat, its height should be nine feet for four horses; and if there are more, it should be higher, as much as twelve or fourteen for large stables. The smallest ought not to be less than eight feet high. If too lofty it will be cold; when too low, currents are occasioned by the ventilation.