747 Chap. II. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. and if tlie water be changed several times, and the kneading be continued long enough, the substance remaining in the hand will no longer tinge the water, and will be found to consist of a greyish tough elastic mass, very different from what it was at first: it will be very adhesive, and will draw out in some degree like Indian rubber. This substance is gluten, which has been described in Chap. VII. Sect. III. 4247. The substance separated from the flour in the operation just mentioned, and which whitens the water, is starch, as may be seen if the whole of the water be suffered to remain some time at rest, when the starch will subside to the bottom. If the clear water be pom-ed off and evaporated by boiling, a very small quantity of a giimni)/ sugar will remain in the bottom of the evaporating vessel. Starch, gluten, and sugar are, therefore, the principal constituents of wheat flour; and they exist on an average in good wheat in the following proportion per 100 parts : —starch, 68; gluten, 24; sugar, 5; vegetable albumen, 2. .... 4248. Gluten is one of the most important principles in wheat flour, and it is this chiefly which gives it so much superiority over every other substance for bread, as it forms an adhesive paste, and is one of the principles of fermentation. It is not found, except in very small quantity, in any other grain but wheat; and none of them, as barley, oats, or rye, can be made into good fermented bread, except some wheat flour be added : yet it is the starch of the flour, being in greatest quantity, that furnishes the largest proportion of nu- tritious matter. The gluten is comparatively in a very small quantity ; but it is still more nutritious, containing nitrogen (as was shown Chap. VII. Sect. III.), an element constant in the anmial kingdom but rare in the vegetable ; and hence gluten has been sometimes called the vegeto-animal principle. The greater the proportion of gluten, as Sir. H. Davy has shown, the better is the quality and the more nutritious the flour. Although starch be less nutritive than gluten, we cannot doubt of its great value as food, when we see how well people are supported upon potatoes alone, which contain abundance of starch, but no gluten. The sugar is in the smallest proportion, but it is important; the fermentation of' bread is supposed to commence with this principle, since it is found that if the sugar be washed out'of flour, it will not ferment. Mr. Edlin, who wrote on baking some years ago, separated a pound avoirdupois of wheat into—bran, 3 oz.; starch, 10 oz.; gluten, i oz. ; sugar, i oz. ; and 2 oz. loss. 4249. Jt is said thai good bread cannot be made of flour that is quite nctv, and that it is better to lieep tlie tlour for two or tliree months, or even a year ; but Itceping too long deteriorates it, and sometimes it gets together in lumps so hard that they must actually go to the mill to he ground over again. Such agglutinated Hour, however, is not always unfit for bread ; if mixed with new flour, it will make very good bread. The bakers generally mix new flour with some that is a year old. 4250. Although good bread forms one of the most muritious and wholesome kinds of food, yet bread made of bad flour is one of the worst. There is little doubt but that many complaints, the origin and nature of which are studied in vain by the physician, might be traceable to the unwholesomeness of provisions, and that of bread among others. In this case, prevention is what we are to look to ; cure is often beyond the power of medicine. In describing rye we mentioned the dreadful disease which horned or spurred rye is capable of generating, and that all grain was more or less liable to be infected in the same way. The existence of the diseases in corn called blight, smut, ?niMeu', and canker, has been long known to the farmer. Blights and mildews are owing to many causes, as cold frosty winds, which nip and destroy the tender shoots of the young plants and impede their growth ; but it has been ascertained that they are frequently caused by the growth of an ex- tremely minute parisitic plant of the fungus tribe, the seeds of which are wafted in countless myriads through the atmosphere, and germinate in places favourable to their development. Smut, which infests wheat, barley, and oats, is one variety of these fungus vegetations; it appears in the form of a black sooty powder found in the ear, and more or less oftensive to the smell; when examined by the magnifier, it appears as minute globules, each of whicli is a distinct plant. When this occurs, the farina is totally destroyed. If the injured ear be struck with the finger, the powder will be dispersed \ike a black smoke. These singular and destructive bodies have been studied by Mr. Bauer, and drawings of them are deposited in tiie British Museum. There are two varieties, called Uredo segetum, or smut, and Uredo fetida, or canker ; the seeds are supposed to be taken up in the soil by the roots, and carried into the young plant by the sap. The canker is not seen on the exterior, but wlien the ears are bruised, they have a powerful and fetid odour, and .are sometimes threshed along with the sound ears, rendering tlie whole unfit for food. The smut is more obvious, attacking not only the grain, but the stalk and leaves, which appear as if dusted over with charcoal. These plants arc so minute, that Bauer has calculated that it would require 2,5Gn,00() to cover a single square inch ; and each of these contains 10,000,000 vegetating granules, or, as tiicy are called by bot.anists, spores, which are the seeds; the multiplication mvist therefore be inconceivable. Washing the seed corn in water, particularly lime water, previously to being sown, is the best preventive known. These diseases in tlic wheat have not only the effect of lessening or destroying altogetner the farina of the grain, but render very unwholesome tlour made from corn whicii has among it any infected grains. 42.'jl. The Tiiouldincss which appears upon old flour, or stale bread, is likewise a minute plant that grows upon such substances as are in a certain stage of decomposition. Flour or bread in this state is highly dan- gerous as food. 42.52. In all cases where corn has been subject to disease, or the flour has been badly kept, it is the gluten that suffers most, being the part most liable to decomposition : and as we shall show that the raising of the bread depends upon the gluten being uninjured, it is obvious that good bread cannot be made from damaged flour; and though chemical means may be resorted to for assisting the fermentation, yet this can only deceive tlie public, and enable the bakers to make bread porous and apparently wholesome out of flour of very inferior quality. Instead, therefore, of showing how bread, passable in appearance, may be made out of bad flour, it appears to us much safer to point out the impropriety of using such flour for baking bread : it is best to reject it for this purpose, or employ it la. some way where perfect condition is of less importance.