HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. 330 bearing in their rank of life, are of the best and most respectable description. It would signify little, whether such families were of high or inferior standing in society, provided their habits of life enforced on all around them the love and practice of neatness, order, regularity, and cleanliness, and the still more essential qualities of integrity and'sobriety. In hiring servants it is also desirable to have those whose immediate relatives and connexions are respectable, however poor they may be. Those who hold their relatives and friends in respect will not be indiiFerent to their own characters ; they will desire to do credit and not to disgrace an honest parentage, and thus the pride of respectability will be turned to its right use. 1501. In regulating the conduct of servants, it is requisite that the legal points in the business should be known. Indeed, the servant, equally with the master, should understand the rinhts which are mutually possessed, and in what respect the infrinRement of these rights on either part would affect their contract: in Borne cases they would find themselves amenable to legal process. Each party should know that sen ants may be legally punished for insolence, and for .issaul ting master ormistress; that they may be fined for drunkenness, gaming^ cursing, and swearing; that if by misdemeanour they are legally detained from their master's house, the contract between them is void. On the other hand, if not chargeable w-ith misdemeanour, the master cannot discharge them from his service without paying them that portion of the year's wages which was agreed upon between them on hiring, or allowing tliem to remain in his service for a stated time after giving them warning, unless the separation takes place by mutual consent. 1502. On this head the usual agreement between principals and household servants is to allow on each side a month's notice to be given, or a month's wages to be paid. 1503. Register Offices, sometimes resorted to by those who are seeking for servants, have not of late been in much repute, because servants of indifferent characters more frequently apply to them for places than those of a better description. In the metropolis, housekeepers who are constantly engaged in business prefer to av.ail themselves of the assistance of these offices in suiting themselves with servants, rather than to leave in search of them their lucrative employments. Such persons, not always requiring characters of those whom they take into their service, seldom give any on parting with them, and they reserve to themselves the power of dismissing such servants at a moment's warning ; they ou their part can, if their convenience or inclina- tion induce them, leave their service immediately. Although the common Register Offices are little esteemed, there are institutions of more recent establishment, which at present bear a better character, and are founded on better principles. They h.ive for their object the encouragement of respectable servants, as well as the convenience of housekeepers, and their security from the evils ol'^disrei)Utable and dishonest inmates. Servants whose characters cannot bear the strictest investigation will scarcely apply to such institutions, if the promises and regulations of these establishments are observed; for they profess to be so scrupulously minute in their Inquiries into characters, as to preclude the necessity of those who are hiring from their office taking any con- cern or trouble in the business themselves. Of these institutions there is one called the Protector, and another the National Benevolent Institution: the former is in Gre.it Russell Street, London, the latter in Bedford Row. 1504. The Protector Institution professes to combine other advantages besides that of supplying families with servants, the only object of a common Register Office. The conductors of the Institution engage, by the precautions they take in applying for characters, to lessen the difficulty of obtaining good and efficient servants. They profess to admit of no recommendation from parties of doubtful estimation, nor to consider slight, careless, and evasive answers to their inquiries as satisfactory. They endeavour to detect the fraudu- lent practices by which characters are obtained, and by a zealous and rigid investigation to secure their oflSce from the application of those servants whose conduct will not bear the scrutiny. SuBSECT. 6.—Extent of Establishments of Servants, 1505. Establishments qf servants, considered according to their extent, rates. An Establishment qf the First Bate, such as may be supposed to form the household of a nobleman of high rank, 7iumber frotii twenty to twenty-four domestics. WOMEN. Housekeeper. A lady's maid for each grown up liidy of the family. Cook. Upper housemaid. Laundry-maid. Under housemaid. Under laundry-maid. Still-room maid. Kitchen-maid. Scullion. MEN. House-steward. Groom of the chamber. Valet to each gentleman in the family. Man cook. Butler. Gentlemjin's footman. Lady's footman. Under butler. Gentleman's coachman. Lady's coachman. Couriers—outriders. Grooms, in number according to the stud. Under serv.mts — Errand boys — .Steward's boy. To this establishment, that of the nursery (sec " Nursery ") may be a(l<l"d when requisite. In an cstublishmont of iuch mag. nitude, the duties of its members are perfectly distinct. Order and subordination must necessarily be maintained in it, by the proper ad- ministration of the household laws, and by the observance of " house- hold etiquette;" or anarchy and conrusi<m, inste.id of convenience and comfort, would be found within this miniiiture world. 150G. An Establishment of the Second Rate, suited to incomes of 5000/.or 4500/. per annum. WOMEN. Housekeeper. Lady's maid. Upper housemaid. Cook. Laundry-maid. Under-housemaid. Under launilry-maid. Kitolien-maid. Scullion. MEN. Butler. Valet. Two footmen. Under butler. Two co.ichmen ■Two grooms. lii this establishment the butler performs the duties of the house- steward as well .as those of his own. 1507. An Establishment qf the Third Rate, suited to incomes qf 1000/. or 3.500/. per annum. WOMEN. Housekeeper. may be classed imder the following Lady's maid. Cook. Upper housemaid. Laundry-maid. Under fiousemaid. Kitchen-maid. In this establishment of women- servants the under housemaid is expected to assist the cook in serving dinner, and the laundress on ironing and mangling days MEN. Butler. Footman. Under butler. Coachman. Groom. The butler here performs the duties of the valet, as well as those of the house-steward. 1,508. An Establishment qf the Fourth Rale, for incomes from 2000/. to 1500/. per annum. WOMEN. Housekeeper. Cook. Housemaid. Lnundry-mald. In this establishment the house- keeper is expected to superintend the conking, and to act, if required as lady's maid also. MEN. Butler. Footman. ('oachman. Groom