FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. Chap. IX, 499 Sect. VI. NUTS. 2751. These are seeds or fruits rather dry, and not fleshy or pulpy, inclosed in a hard ■n-oody shell or husk. Nuts of various kinds are spoken of as much employed for food in ancient times, and they still furnish in some countries a considerable source of aliment. 27.52. Hie edible part or kernel usually contains a good deal of oil, and although they are nutritive, they are less digestible than most other vegetable substances. The prin- cipal fruits of this class used as food in England are the -walnut, chesnut, and filbert, grown in England, to which we may add the acorn, the exotics cocoa nut, cashew nut, and pistachio nut. SuBSECT. 1.— Walnut (Juglans regia, Linn.). 2753. The walnut is a native of Persia, the Caucasus, and China, but was introduced to this kingdom from France. 2754. The ripe kernel is brought to the dessert on account of its agreeable flavour; and the fruit is also much used in the green state, before the stone hardens, as a pickle. In Spain grated walnuts are employed in tarts and other dishes. The walnut abounds in oil, which is expressed, and which, being of a higlily drying nature, and very limpid, is much employed for delicate painting. This on the Continent is sometimes used as a sub- stitute for olive oil in cooking, but is very apt to turn rancid. It is also manufactured into a kind of soap. The marc, or refuse matter after the oil is extracted, proves very nutritious for poultry or other domestic animals; in Switzerland this is eaten by poor people under the name of pain amer. 2755. The sap of the walnut tree is vei"y saccharine, and sugar may be made from it by evaporation; it may also be fermented into a kind of wine. The leaves and green husks afford an extract by maceration in warm water that acts as a very permanent brown dye for staining hair, wool, and wood, and is said to be employed by the gypsies to give a dark colour to children whom they have stolen. SuBSECT. 2.— Chesnut (Fagus Castanea, Lirm.'). 2756. The chesnut was known to the Romans, who called it Castanea, from a city of that name in Thessaly, whence they first procured it; and it was grown abundantly by the ancients, and much used as food. It is so common in Italy and France that it is often considered to be a native of these countries. The chesnut lives to a very great age, and form some of the oldest trees in the world; as the celebrated one mentioned by Brydone on Mount Etna, under which a hundred horsemen are said once to have taken shelter ; that at Fortworth in Gloucestershire ; and one at Marsham, calculated to be 1100 years old. This tree was probably introduced into England by the Romans. It grows commonly in the warmer parts of Britain; but the fruit seldom comes to maturity in Scotland. 2757. In the southern parts of the Continent, chesnuts form a very large portion of the food of the labouring classes, who, besides eating them both raw and roasted, make puddings of them, and polenta for pastry. BoUed chesnuts and milk form a common breakfast among the peasantry in the south of France ; and in Corsica, as well as several districts of Spain, they are cooked in various ways. Mr. Phillips says {Pomarium Brit. p. 95.) "chesnuts stewed with cream make a much admired dish, and many families prefer them to all other stuffings for turkeys : they make an excellent soup, and I have no ' doubt but that chesnuts might be advantageously used in cooking, so as to make many agreeable and wholesome dishes. I have had them stewed and brought to table with salt fish, when they have been much admired ; but it is exceedingly difficult to introduce any : article as food that has not been established by long custom ; and it is not more strange than true, that the difficulty increases if the object be economy." 2578. The chesnuts that grow commonly in this country are inferior in size and per- ■ fection to those which are imported from Spain, Portugal, and Italy : these are frequently kiln-dried, to prevent germination in the passage. In Britain, little use is made of the ' chesnut except at the dessert, for which it is roasted, when it becomes farinaceous or 1 mealy, like a sweet potato. 2759. It is, indeed, the most farinaceous and the least oily of all the nuts, and I therefore it is the most easy of digestion ; but raw chesnuts are not digestible by every 1 one. 27G0. The In-e called the horse-chcsnut. from tlfc resemblance of its fruit to that of tlie clicsnut, is very 1 difforent. Its fruits are astringent and bitter, and unfit for liiim.in food ; nevertlieless, tlioy contain so mncli I rarmaccous matter, that tlicy are very nutritious to some animals, and liorscs and deer devour tliem greeiiily. 1 lipy arc likewise detergent, and have hi en used as a substitute for soap. A patent was t>iken out sonio ' year, ago for preparing starch from them, by which much esculent grain might be saved K k 2