886 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII, II sumcient ilo s not adhere to tliera, and over all sift a few bread-crumbs. Put each chop into a icnarate fried, lie fat being removed, with an equal quantity of veal gravy, and when quite hot remove it from the 6re and add some lemon-juice or strong vinegar. They may likewise be eaten with whole caper., with .ome of the vinegar In which they are preserved, witli a little cayenne. ScnsECT. 4. — Lamb. 4993. Leg of Iamb boiled. — Cover it with cold water, and when it boils scum it. When the scum ceases to rise, set the kettle to keep it only gently simmering for an hour and a half or two hours, according to the size. It may be served with parsley, or with gooseberry sauce and spinach, brocoli, or cauliflower. The loin is sometimes cut into chops, fried, and put on the dish, round the boiled leg, garnished plentifully with crisp parsley. 4994. Leg of lamb stewed. — Put it into a stew-pan and cover it with mutton gravy, a bimch of sweet herbs, some pepper, salt, and beaten mace; stew gently for three quarters of an hour. Pour out the liquor and cover the meat close to keep it hot, while the gravy is prepared by straining it, thickening it with flour and butter, and flavouring it whh mushroom catsup or a few mushrooms, as well as some lemon-juice; the whole boiled together, must be poured over the lamb when it is dished. 4995. Lamb chops stewed with cucumbers. — Fry the chops of a light brown, and stew them for half an hour in good gravy ; thicken and flavour the gravy, and add to it some cucumbers thickly sliced, and previously stewed. Boil them up together, and put the cucumbers first on the dish, the chops on them. 4996. Roasted lamb.—Either quarter of lamb in roasting is papered, and fre- quently basted with beef suet or beef dripping until an hour before it is to served, when the paper must be removed, and the meat basted with butter, and afterwards frosted. Neither lamb nor veal is agreeable when under done ; neither should be taken from the fire, until the gravy which drops from it appears perfectly colourless. The time for roasting a fore quarter of 10 lbs. weight will be two hours. A hind quarter of the same weight, two and a half hours. The fore quarter may be improved by the cook cutting oflF the shoulder and lifting it up with a fork, throwing underneath it some pepper, salt, a small slice of butter, and a squeeze of the juice of lemon or Seville orange ; then neatly replacing it. Roasted lamb is served with green mint sauce and salads ; also asparagus, peas, and spinach are considered as its suitable accompanying vegetables. 4997. Broiled shonliicr of lamb. — First roast the shoulder till it is more than half done, and let it become quite cold ; then score it to the bone, especially in the thicker parts. If it were scored while hot, all the gravy would be discharged, and the dish rendered dry and insipid. Mix up some butter with the yolk of a raw egg, chopjied parsley, and a little black and cayenne pepper, with a toa-spoonful of soy, and introduce this into tlie parts that have been scored. Place it on the gridiron over a clear fire, and allow each side about a quarter of an hour. When in the dish, have ready two pickled cucumbers coarsely chopped, and a table-spoonful of whole capers ; strew these equally over the lamb, and at the same time pour over it the following sauce. Incorporate some butter and flour over the fire till it acquires a fine brown, work into it a minced eschalot, and moisten it with strong gravy. When it has acquired the proper consistence it is finished. 4998. Lamb chops from the loin. — Trim them neatly, and season them with very little pepper ; add to some grated bread marjoram, thyme, parsley, and lemon-peel, all finely chopped ; having wetted the chops with the yolk of egg, cover them with these mixed, and fry them in butter of a light brown. On serving the chops, garnish them with crisp parslej-. SuBSECT. 5.—Pork. 4999. Boiled porh. — If a leg of pork is bought ready salted, observe whether the knuckle is slit; if it be, the " Cook's Oracle " warns against purchasing it, as in all pro- bability the juices of the meat will thereby have escaped into the pickle. Pork requires a fuller allowance of fire in cooking than anj' other meat; if underdone, it is disagreeable and unwholesome. After boiling it, according to the allowance of a quarter of an hour's time to a pound of meat, allow a full half hour beyond that time. If the pork be allowed to soak in cold water for half an hour before it is put into the kettle, its colour will be improved. The boiling should be moderate ; fast boiling hardens it. When the meat is taken out of the kettle, it should be laid on a dish, that all particles adhering to it may be scraped olf; it must then be removed to a hot dish, and served with pease pudding, parsnips, or mashed potatoes. Pease pudding is considered to be a very old-fashioned accompaniment of boiled pork, but it is one more generally liked than any other. There arc many other parts of porkers which are salted and boilei; the hand, the flank, and the neck. 5000. Roa.ited leg of pork. — A leg of eight pounds will require about three hours roasting. Score the skin in narrow stripes, and, if approved, transversely also ; stuff the knuckle with sage, onion (minced small), grated bread, and a seasoning of pepper