1147 Chap. 11. MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. on the frog, which is sometimes the consequence of too high shoes, will bring on disease of the foot. The sole is the under concave and elastic substance of the foot extending from the crest to the bars and frog; it is not so thick, nor so brittle, as the crust, but is more elastic. It is thickest at the toe, and, to a certain degree, concave or hollow, but descends when the horse rests upon his foot. In shoeing it should be but very slightly pared, so as to presei-ve this concavity. Sometimes a stone will insinuate itself between the sole and the shoe, and, if not removed, will cause lameness. The sensible sole, situ- ated between the coffin bone and horny sole, is formed of a substance having a ligamentous or tendinous nature, and is plentifully supplied with blood-vessels : its use seems to he to secrete horn for the sole ; it is highly sensible, and is apt to be inflamed by any injury, which causes corns and lameness. The sensible frog occupies the hinder part of the foot, and is a soft elastic mass, partly ligamentous and partly cartilaginous, attached in front to the inferior part of the coffin bone. The navicular bone is a small bone, which strengthens the joint at this part. The reader, having now a general idea of the structure of the horse's foot, will be able to understand the reason for the precaution pointed out in shoeing. 6809. TTie injurious effects of bad shoeing only require to be pointed out to excite every endeavour to avoid them, and the importance of shoeing is evinced by the great pains that have lately been bestowed on the subject. There are some circumstances in the common practice of country smiths which ought to be guarded against by every one who pos- sesses a horse likely to come under their hands ; but the shoes at present made by the most respectable smiths in the cities and large towns, and their mode of shoeing, are in general nearly unobjectionable. Many persons are very careless as to the state of the horse's feet and his shoes. The shoes are often wom tiU they drop off in the middle of a journey, and time is lost, the foot broken or destroyed, and very likely the horse lamed. If the horse be doing little work, perhaps the shoes are left on too long, and the horn is suffered to grow so as to accumulate too much ; then the horse's action is fettered ; he cannot step out; he cannot place his foot firmly on the ground ; and he is very liable to corns. Hence at certain intervals the superfluous horn must Jse pared away ; a month is the usual time; some may go five weeks. If the heels are weak or the seat of corns, the shoes may require removal every three weeks. If the shoes of fast workers are not worn at the end of a month, the feet should be pared, and the old shoes replaced. 6810. The preparation oj the fool for the shoe is a subject of much tnojncnt. It is of course coraraenced by pulling off one old shoe ; for it is better never to take more off at once, otherwise the horse is apt to break away the edges of the horn while standing on the bare ground or pavement. In removing the old shoes, which were fastened by nails clenched, great care should be taken by the smith to raise the clenches thoroughly, or file them off, until the shoe can be taken off easily, instead of wrenching tliem off with vio- lence, as is sometimes done, by which the nail lioles are enlarged, and the future hold weakened by portions of the crust being detached ; and the horse shows by his flinching how much he suffers by this violent oper- ation. When the foot is tender, or the horse to be examined for lameness, each nail should be partly punched out, and care should be taken that no stubs remain in the crust, the source of future annoyance. Next, the rougli edges of the crust should be rasped, which prevents its breaking away when set down, and also detects any stubs of old nails left behind, and removes loose portions that would hoid gravel, either of which might turn the nail that may be introduced there. The sole is to be pared throughout, until it can be what is called " thumbed," t. e. felt to spring by a forcible pressure of the thumb. In this paring, the natural form of the arch of the sole should be as closely imitated as possible, and particular care taken that no part of it be left to protrude beyond tlie line of tlie crust; on the contrary, its concavity ought to commence immediately from the line of separation between the crust and sole, but not from the edge of the crust, as is sometimes done. The whole thickness of the crust, be it more or less, ought to be left perfectly flat for the bearing of the shoe. Habit, and a correct eye, can detect any inequalities in this surface, without a moment- ary application of the heated shoe to try the bearing parts, as is usually done, and which, if the shoe be also previously tried with a plane iron, may very well be avoided. Nevertheless, the outcry raised against this practice is, in a great measure, unnecessary ; for, unless the shoe be very hot, and held on too long, no harm probably results from its application. In common rough shoeing, also, this error is infinitely less than the application of the unequal pressure, which it is intended to prevent, would prove. The portion of sole between the bars and quarters should be always pared out; and, if properly done, is the surest preventive against corns. The heels should be an object of great attention, and ought to be care- fully reduced to the general level of position, which it may be supposed the hoof was originally placed in, and which may always bo judged by observing the line of the pasterns with it. It is of great consequence that tile inner heel should not be reduced beyond the outer, for its natural weakness gives it a tendency to Increased wear ; instead, therefore, of paring both equally, in ease the outer is the highest, pare only the outer; and moreover, set the shoe very lightly on the Inner heel. A want of attention to this circumstance of inequality in the heels lays the foundation of corns and splints. GUI I. The paring of the insensible frog is an important part of the process ; but it is highly improper to cut it much away, as Is the pr.iclice of some smiths, particidarly when employed by dealers to give an appearance of" opening the heels ;" nor should it be pared too much, since it is nitended by nature as resisting props to 8up)iort the internal parts of the foot from pressure ; it ought not, liiiwcver, to be suffered to project too much. The most judicious mode is, instead of beginning witli the I rog, to attend first to the crust, sole, and heels, and then a mist.akc in paring the frog is less likely to arise ; for it may be regarded as ji general rule, that when the frog is a very little beyond the level of the return of the heels and the crust, it is as large as it ever ought to be ; .and the heels of the shoe will raise it up suflSciontly for protection against too nuich we.ar, but will not elevate it against a proper sh.iro of pressure. With respect to the intennediate portion of horny substance that fills up the angle, it should be moderately pared out, in every instance, lor it is the seat of corns; and if accidental pressure alight and remain there, a corn is the inevitable consequence. If even a sm.»ll particle of gravel should lodge here, each step forces it further ; and as soon as it has reached the sensible parts, inUammation and suppuration ensue. 6812. Many attempts have been made to improve the form of the shoe, and not entirely without success ; but it must'be observed, that no form of this defence for the foot can be