918 FRENCH COOKERY. Book XIV. CHAP. in. RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOICERY. Sect. I. SOUPS AND SAUCES. 5303. Grand consomme. — Put two knuckles of veal, part of a leg of beef, a fowl, a rabbit, or two old partridges ; add a cupful of soup, stir it well, and when it jellies, add two quarts of clear stock ; boil and skim it carefully, season it with three turnips, three carrots, three onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of leeks, and two heads of celery. Let it then simmer for four hours; strain it through a sieve or tamis into a clean earthen pan, and set it in a cool place for use. 5304. Coiisommi of poultry.— Veal and ham, with the trimmings of poultry, are the basis of this consomme. The flavouring ingredients are mushrooms, parsley, and green onions. Veal broth or stock, sufficient to keep the vessel full, must be added, and the whole, after boiling, must be gently stewed for two or three hours. The broth will be more savoury and mellow if the meat be not overdone. The fat must be skimmed of^ and the consomme strained through a silken sieve. 5305. Consommes of game. — Entrees of partridges must be prepared with consomme of partridge, made from veal and from the backs and other trimmings of partridges and rabbits. If the entrees are served with truffles, the consommes must be flavoured with truffles and mushrooms together with a bundle of parsley and green onions. The whole must be moistened with consomme (containing ham), and must then be boiled, but not over-much, strained, and set by for use. 5306. White roux for thickening white sauces. — Put into a saucepan a lump of butter; melt it over a slow fire, and separate, by draining, the residue of buttermilk contained in the butter ; dredge it with flour till it is of the consistency of paste ; keep it on the fire for a quarter of an hour, but take care not to let it colour; pour it into an earthen pan ready for use. 5307. Brown roux. — Put butter into a stew-pan, and proceed as above directed for white roux ; fry the paste of butter and flour over a slow fire, till by very gradual steps it becomes finely coloured; when of a light brown, pour it into an earthen pan ready for use; it will keep for some time. SuBSifcx. 1.— Potages. 5308. Potage a la Heine. — Take three chickens or pullets ; skin them, take out the lungs and clean them; lay them in a stew -pan with a bunch of parsley only ; moisten the whole with boiling broth; stew for an hour, and take out the chickens. Soak the crumb of two penny rolls in the broth; pound the meat of the chickens with the soaked bread, and three or four yolks of hard-boiled eggs. Rub the whole through th^ tamis or sieve. Boil a quart of cream, stirring it all the time, and pour it on the soup; it is not so likely to curdle if done in this way as by the usual mode of mixing it while cold with hot liquids. To this soup rice or vermicelli may be added, but either must be previously stewed in some broth, the rice for some time, the vermicelli for five or six minutes only. 5309. La brunoise—winter soup.—Blanch carrots and turnips cut into dice; add to them as much rich broth as the number of the party may require. Season it with salt; add a little sugar to it; boil the whole for an hour. Skim off the fat, and serve with mitonnage of crusts. 5.310. Potage (1 la Condc Take .i quart of French beans, put them into a stew-pan with two quarts of consomme, a pound of l)acon, three carrots, tliree onions, (one of them stuclc with cloves,) a bunch of leeks, two heads of celery. Let all simmer together for three hours. Take out the vegetables, pulp them into the soup, and again boil all together. Fry bread in dice, and serve in the soup. Sect. III. REMOVES (after FISH AND SOUP). 5311. Beef (a la flamande). — Take the brisket or part of the rump of beef Season it with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaf, and cloves. Boil it gently four hours. Drain away and reduce the liquor to a glaze. Cover the beef with it when served. Garnish the dish with carrots and turnips braised, also with cabbage done separatelj'. Serve it with Espagnole sauce. (This dish may be sometimes garnished with cuciunbers, farce, or with Spanish onions glazed, or with artichoke bottoms.)