COSMETICS. Chap. IX. 1043 6204. Pmnaiies are also mai!e without infusion, as those of jasmine, tuberose, jonquil, narcissus, and violot. A square frame, called titiiue, is matle of four pieces of wood well joined together, two or three inches deep, mto which a pane of glass is laid, resting upon inside ledges, even with the hottom. Upon the surface of the p<ane the simple pomade of hogs' lard and suet is spread witli a pallet knife ; and into this pomade the sweet-scented flowers are stuck fresh in different points each successive day during two or three months, till the pomade has acquired the desired richness of perfume. 'J'he above-described frames are piled closely over each other. .Some establishments at Grnsse possess from 3,000 to 4,0(10 of them. ii2fl.'j. Ati c^pcricticcd perjmncr states, that notwithstanding it is the custom to employ the flowers them- selves in making perfumed pomades in those countries where the flowers arc abundant, yet they can be made equally well, and with much more expedition, with the essences of the flowers ; and these have this advantage, that pomades can be made when the flowers cannot be procured : also that the perfume can be poniraunicated with more precision by means of the essence, since in the other process the mucilaginous portions of the flowers sometimes alter the odour. 6206. Pomades are likewise made of compound perfumes; as Roman pomade, or po- made a la Tanille, which consists of twelve pounds of pomade a la rose ; three pounds oil a la rose ; one pound best vanilla; six ounces bergamot. 6207. Pomade au pot pourri. — This pomade is made by adding to a fatty basis the essences of several odoriferous substances, and may be varied at pleasure. It retains its odour very long. 6208. An agreeable peifumed oil mat/ be made thus.—Dip cotton wool in clear olive oil, and having procured a tall glass vessel, lay the cotton alternately with jessamine flowers. In a few daj-s the flowers will have imparted their perfume to the oil, which may then be squeezed out for use; and the cotton may be employed by laying in band-boxes or drawers, where perfume is required. 6209. Cold cream.—This pomade en creme is very useful for chapped hands or face, and softens the skin. Melt together in a water-bath eight ounces of fine neats'-foot oil or ahnond oil, three ounces spermaceti, and one and a half white wax. When thoroughly melted, pour the whole into a pan, which in winter must be kept very warm by the fire. Then with a wooden spatula beat the whole constantly, imtil it becomes a very uniform white body; pour into it half a pint of rose or orange-flower water, with about a quarter of an oimce of spirit of ambergris, or bergamot, or any other perfume. Next beat the mixture weU again, until the whole of the water and spirit is absorbed by the unctuous substances. It ought then to be as white as snow, whence the name cream. Pour it now into pots, and keep it cool. If made in cold weather aU the materials must be warmed as they are mixed, or the whole will be lumpy. A marble mortar, if at hand, is conve- nient to mix it in. Another.—Melt together foutr ounces of spermaceti and one of lard; add bergamot and rose water. Another. — Melt one drachm of white wax, one of spermaceti, and two ounces of olive oil; add two ounces of rose water, and half an ounce of orange-flower water. Another.—Melt together equal parts of almond oil and white wax. Add to the mix- ture, put into a marble mortar or strong glass basin, a few drops of some perfumed water, as rose, orange, or elder-flower water, and rub them together with the pestle till they are thoroughly incorporated; then add more and more drops, *ubbing all the while, tiU the mixture, when cold, is of the consistence of cream. 6210. Lipsalve. Pomade pour les levres.— This is a preparation extremely useful as a remedy for chapped lips, by applying it pretty freely at bed-time. It is made of equal parts of almond or olive oil, and the best white wax. Melt the wax in a clean gallipot, set at the side of the fire, then add the oil. It is customary to colour the salve by adding a little alkanet root suspended in a piece of muslin, while the salve is hot, and melted, or a little carmine; but this colouring has frequently the inconvenience of reddening a cambric handkerchief if accidentally applied to the lips. Some perfume is also generally added, as bergamot, oil of lavender, oil of cinnamon, &c., but it is not essential. Pastes. 6211. To soften and improve the skin of the hands and arms, some use pastes of various kinds. 6212. Almond paste is one of those most generally used ; the oil of the almond has some efl'ect in rendering the skin supple. One receipt is, beat in a mortar four pounds of sweet almonds blanched and dried with lavender or Hungary water. Add to this one pound of white drained honey, two ounces of oil of jessamine, half a pound of the best almond powder, and four ounces of orris powder; the whole to be well incorporated. This will keep, if no eggs or milk be added. Almond powder is made by extracting the oil from the almonds by pressure, then drying what remains, and grinding it. Another ivat/.— Take one poimd of sweet almonds, a quarter of a pound of crumb of bread, and the yolks of two eggs. Skin the almonds and pound them in a mortar, and sprinkle them with vinegar, that the paste may not turn to oil ; add the crumb of bread, and the eggs, and moisten the whole with brandy, diluted with an equal quantity of water; mix all this well together, and set it over a slow fire, keeping stirring it all the while, that it does not burn to. Add the brandy and water till the consistence is right. 3X2