Book IX. 732 ON MAKING BREAD. of Egypt, the various processes used by the ancient Egyptians in making bread are distinctly represented. But when we consider how small is the quantity of nutriment that might have been expected from seeds like the farinaceous grains, we may suppose that these would not have been resorted to at first, except in the deficiency of larger supplies of food derived from liunting, fishing, and fruits. We find at the present day some of the savage tribes in America using occasionally, when unsuccessful in the chase, the seeds of a wild com; but they never attempt its cultivation. Some kinds of grain are more easily deprived of the chaflf than others which have a hard or horny covering so close that it cannot be separated by mere rubbing. Also grain when full grown, but yet soft and milky, is more palatable than the same when dry and ripe; and the species with naked pods are often used as food in this state by persons in low or very simple conditions of society, without any further preparation than merely toasting them. Ears of maize are thus treated by farmers in the United States of America ; anQ Hasselquist, in his " Travels in Palestine," gives us an account which has been confirmed by late travellers. " On the road from Acre to Leide," he observes, " we saw a herdsman eating his dinner, consisting of half ripe ears of wheat, which he roasted and ate with as good an appetite as a Turk does his pillau. In Egypt such food is much eaten by the poor, being the ears of maize or Turkish wheat, and of their dhourra, which is a kind of millet. When this food was invented, art was in a simple state: yet the custom is still continued in some nations, where the inhabitants have not even at this day learned to pamper nature." Boiling demands the possession of metals and the art of working them, or of some material capable of resisting fire : but this is so simple and advantageous a mode of using corn of all kinds that it was probably employed long before the more artificial method of grinding the grain into meal, and baking it as bread. Burckhardt observes that the inhabitants of Nubia boiled the green ears of barley in water, and ate them with milk. 4178. In the remotest parts of Scotland, until very lately, a custom existed amongst the poorest classes, which may very well illustrate the manners of the most simple nations Fig, 008. of antiquity. Barley well dried by the fire was put into a hemispherical cavity worked out of a block of stone, fig. 608., where it was beaten for a short time by a wooden mallet until the husk was pretty well separated : a small quantity of the bruised barley was next taken up in the hand, and cleaned by blowing gently with the mouth, which was suflicient to drive away the husks ; and the cleaned barley was then put into the pot for broth. Those who are not accustomed to trace the progress of inventions have no idea of the slowness with which they are improved. It seems very easy to grind corn into flour, yet probably ages elapsed before this was properly eflFected. The guern. Jig. 609., used in the Highlands of Scotland, was perhaps a legacy left to this island by the Romans, who were accustomed to carry hand mills in their camps, as is seen in the Trajan columns ; or it may have been used by the Celtic nations, as it was known in the East at a period preceding that of the earUest records. It is thus described by Dr. Johnson : " The quern consists of two stones, about a foot and a half in diameter; the lower is a little con- vex, to which the concavity of the upper must be fitted. In the middle of the upper stone is a round hole, and on one side is a long handle. The grinder sheds the corn gradually into the hole with one hand, and works the handle round with the other. The corn slides down the convexity of the lower stone, and by the motion of the upper is ground in its passage." This, the simplest, and no doubt the most ancient of all corn mills, will soon perhaps be no longer to be seen in this island; but it has been discovered among the inhabitants of the Himalayan regions, where many Celtic customs may be traced. The quern illustrates so well the usual millstones by which our flour is now ground, that it is not necessary to add anything except to say, that eur corn mills may be con- sidered as querns upon a large scale driven by machinery : but the grinding surfaces of millstones have radiating lines cut into them for the more effectual bruising and cutting the grain, and reducing it to the state of powder. It is unnecessary to pursue the history of corn mills through those ages when attention was successfully turned to the best methods of saving labour, and when the science of mechanics had brought under contribution the natural powers of water, wind, and steam. Before the art of con- verting the nutritious matter of corn into so convenient and portable a substance as bread, various expedients, no doubt, were resorted to; the modem Italians at this day consume Fig. 609,