Book V. 204 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 934. The advantages of tin plate for culinary vessels may be thus enumerated. It resists great heat and changes of temperature, and is not liable to crack like earthenware ; it is quickly heated, it is lighter than earthenware, it is not brittle, and can be mended, which the latter cannot be ; hence, though dear at first, it is perhaps cheaper in the end, if gi-eat care be taken of it. It is perfectly clean and wholesome, which earthenware glazed with lead is not. 935. As the use of tinning iron is to prevent its rusting, in the same manner as a varnish, it is obvious that whatever wears off the tin, lays bare the surface of the iron, and ex- poses it to the action of moisture and air, which occasions its rusting. It may be easily understood from this, that, to preserve tin saucepans, candlesticks, and all other utensils made of tin plate, care should be taken not to wear away the tin from the surface. Every one has seen silver-plated candlesticks which have been cleaned so often that the copper is made visible by wearing away the silvering. This is easily known from the reddish colour of the copper, so different from that of the silver ; but many cooks do not know that tin saucepans, &c. are only iron plated with tin, and that they are destroyed by fre- quent rubbing, just as plated candlesticks are. The colour of the tin being so near to that of the iron prevents this from being seen at first. But the iron itself, when exposed, soon becomes black, while the tin preserves its brightness. If the iron so exposed be scoured with sand, it also will become bright, but it never has the silvery colour of the tin, and may be easily distinguished by an attentive eye. As soon as the tin is worn, the ii'on soon rusts, and gets into holes, which the tinman cannot mend. 936. To clean covers, or any other articles of bright tin.—-Get a ball of the finest whiting (common whiting has generally a little sand); mix some of it powdered with a very little drop of sweet oil, and rub the tin with this; then wipe it clean ; after that, dust some dry whiting on it, and clean it off with shamoy leather. To prevent rustuig, tin requires to be kept in a dry place ; for though the metal tin is not itself liable to rust, yet there are always some edges or minute places of the iron imperfectly covered, which are sure to rust; and this, in time, will corrode into holes. SuBSECT. 9. — Zinc. 937. Zinc has lately been introduced into domestic economy for vessels of various kinds, and other purposes. The salts of zinc are not so poisonous as those of lead ; but they are so to a great degree, and therefore this metal is improper for all purposes where food is concerned. In America, a patent was talcen out for an improved milk vessel of zinc, which, it was said, had the effect of " causing the milk to throw up more cream, and to prevent it from turning sour ; " but this effect could only be produced by a portion of the metal being dissolved, and forming acetate of zinc, a poisonous salt. 938. Zinc is very little liable to oxidate in the air, and therefore it is a useful material for many utensils formerly made of iron or copper. Coal skuttles are now made of zinc alone, or of sheet iron lined with zinc, which are more durable, though dearer, than those of iron ; and they are cheaper than those of copper. Zinc is likewise employed instead of lead for baths, as being cheaper, and for pails, rain-water, and other pipes ; pierced with numerous holes, it serves for window blinds, for inclosing safes, and many similar pur- poses : also various cowls for chimney-tops are made of it. Zinc is not malleable when cold, but heated nearly to the melting point it can be rolled into sheets with great facility. It has not been in use here in this way above twenty years. SuBSECT. 10. — Quicksilver. 939. Quicksilver, called also mercury, is so far different from all the rest of the ordi- nary metals, that it is always fluid in the common temperature of the atmosphere, and can be rendered solid only by exposing it to an intense degree of cold, when it is found to be malleable ; but as it retains its solid form only so long as the cold is continued, this fact cannot be applied to any useful purpose. Tlie fluidity of mercury, and its bright lustre, are properties that render it extremely applicable to various uses, as in the construction of barometers and thermometers ; likewise in the uniting with tinfoil to form the silvering for mirrors. It is an extremely heavy metal, and does not oxide readily ; but its oxides are poisons, as well as the fiunes of mercury, when it is boiled, which it can be with a very high degree of heat, equal to 600° Fahr. SuBSECT. 11 • Alloys of mclah. 940. These are compounds formed by fusing two or more metals together; and it is the more necessary to state this, because the compound receiving a distinct name, many persons are not aware that they arc not separate metals, but only mixtures. Formerly the tenn alloy was confined to compounds formed of gold, silver, and a little copper, used for com ; but now the term means any mixture of metals whatever.