ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 190 is used Ibv shoep, goat, kid, and other light slcins for gloves, bookbinding, and a variety of other purposes. When the skins of animals just slaughtered are to be tanned, they should be -wa.shed immediately and then dried, otherwise they soon ferment and begin to putrefy. When received in the dry state for tanning, they are steeped in -water for two days, and the rough parts are removed by the flushing knife. The flesh side of the skins is now rubbed with a mixture of lime and water, and the skins are piled on each other with the flesh sides in contact: in a few days it will be found that the wool or hair may be easily removed. They are next well washed to get rid of the lime, and again cleaned of their superfluous parts. This liming and cleaning is repeated several times. After this they are kept for eight or ten days in a bath of bran and water, which gives them a half tanning. They are then ready for the process of aluming, -which is that properly -which converts them into leather. A bath of alum and sea salt dissolved in water is prepared; into this the skins are put at a heat near to boiling for about ten minutes, and then wheat flour is dusted into the bath with the yolks of eggs, so as to make a kind of paste: the skins are -well -worked in this, and left in it for a day. It appears that the skins imbibe something in this process (perhaps alumine) from the alum, which cannot be separated by subsequent -washing. After this they are stretched, rubbed, stoved, and occasionally polished with pumice. Smoothing with a hot iron, or pressing, finishes them ready for the glover. White kid leather requires the process of being worked in a mixture of eggs, salt, and alum to render them perfectly -white and soft, but the tanning is omitted. If the wool is to be preserved upon the skins, the treatment with lime and lime -water is not used, and the alum paste is merely applied to the flesh side, and the skins folded up with it for some time. The rest of the process is nearly the same. Leathers are dyed after they have undergone the process of tanning, and a great deal of these are used for covering chairs, tables, and other articles of furniture. S.TG. Morocco leather, called also Turhey leather, is prepared from goat's skin, and receives its name from having been originally brought from jMorocco, and other places in the north of Africa. At present some comes from the Levant, but the greater part is prepared in this country. The process employed in making it is nearly the same as that already described, only that it is tanned with sumach, and then dyed on the side of the gi'ain ; red with cochineal, blue -with indigo, purple with orchal, &c. Some inferior morocco is made from sheep skin. 857. Russia leather, weU known for its property of not being attacked by mould or worms, is first steeped in an alkaline ley, then in dog's dung: it is afterwards fulled and tanned •with the bark of birch and dyed ; the peculiar odour which renders it so useful in book- binding is given by rubbing it over with the empyi-eumatic oil of birch. The roughness on the surface is produced by an iron tool pressed upon it. 858. Maroquin leather is of excellent quality, and is extensively prepared at Astracan and other parts of Asiatic Russia. The process for making it is nearly the same as for Russia leather, and it is dyed yellow or red. 859. Shanioy, or luash leather, properly chamois leather, is so called because originally, and when of the best quality, it -was made from the chamois or wild goat inhabiting the Alps and P3Tenees. It is now made here, chiefly from the skins of deer, goats, and sheep. It is essentially distinguished from the other kinds of leather, in being dressed with oil -without salt, alum, or tan, and in the grain of the skin bemg taken oft". The skins are brought to the state of pelt by liming and washing, as described above. Those skins which are to be of a bufi' colour are dipped in tan ooze, not to tan, but to dye them. The grain side is next scraped away by a knife, or rubbed off by pumice stone, which renders the skin softer and more extensible, yet sufficiently strong and elastic. They are then soaked in water, and oil is forced in by beating in a fulling mill till the skins have tho- roughly imbibed the oil, yet without appearing greasy. They are then stoved, to facilitate the combination with the skin; and, to take away any superfluous oil, they are scoured in -water with a little alkali. They are then dried, and smoothed by rollers. Until lately vast quantities of shamoy leather was made and used in England, chiefly for dress: but it having been observed during the late campaigns in .Spain, that the health of the soldiers was seriously affected by the leather -which they -wore, which produced chilling and rheumatism by its fitting close to the skin and being long in drying, the use of it -was laid aside, and woollen cloth substituted. 8G0. BII If leather is a very thick and firm, though pliable sort of leather; the true kind is prepared from the skin of the buffalo, and dressed in oil, much in the manner of chamois. Real buff leather is so strong that it will turn the edge of a sword, and is said to be sometimes even pistol proof: hence it was much used for military purposes when metallic armour was going out of use about the time of Charles II. But the bulf leather of modern times is made mostly from cow-hides, which arc inferior, and it is used chiefly for soldiers' sword bolts, or where great strength is required with great pliability. 801. Seal s/iin, being covered -with a very short smooth shining hair, is used sometnncs