Chap. 11. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. 743 4227. It is much used as food in Saxonij, Ukraine, Silesia, and some parts of France, not only by the peasantry, but by the -wealthier classes. The mode of dressing it is ge- nerally by boiling as pottage or puddings or in tarts. In Tuscany it is mixed with barley, and niade into bread, which is very nutritive. It is also used in North America. From the large quantity of sugar which it contains, it is employed in brewing ; and a spirit is distilled from it, a good deal resembling French brandy in flavour ; it is said to be em- ployed in the goldenwasser of Dantzic, and even by the gin distillers in England, who import it from HoUand. Some are of opinion that its cultivation is too much neglected in England, as it grows upon very poor sandy soils, even enriching them, and preparing them to receive other grains. Its growth is rapid, though it is a tender plant and is easily destroyed by cold, being originally a native of the south of Europe. It is excellent for fattening pigs and poultry, and pheasants are particularly fond of it. Cows feed greedily upon it, and it communicates to their milk a great richness and an excellent flavour. SuBSECT. 9. — Peas and Beans. 4228. Formerly these varieties of pulse were much used by the peasantry of England for bread ; but since the almost universal adoption of wheaten bread, they are very little employed for this purpose. Independently of their use as garden vegetables (for which see Book VII. Chap. VIII.), beans are only given to cattle as a strengthening food. Peas are sometimes ground with meal, which is never made into bread alone, but mixed with the flour of wheat; and if millers be not much belied, it is said that, when pea-meal is groimd fine and properly bolted, it is sometimes used for adulterating wheat flour. Sect. II. PREPARATION OF FLOUR FROBI GRAIN. SuBSECT. 1.—Description of Grain. 4229. Having described the various cereal plants which are cultivated as food, we shall now call the reader's attention more particularly to those seeds from which the material of bread is usually obtained. 4230. The seeds of the corn plants, commonly termed grain, are covered by a skin or husk, called by botanists the testa. The whole of what is inclosed is the farina or meal, from which we derive the adjective farinaceous, applied to all vegetables that possess a similar substance. The farina of the grain is that part alone of which bread is generally made; the husks or bran being seldom employed except for feeding cattle, poultry, &c.; sometimes, indeed, a portion of it is ground up with the meal, but we shall now consider the meal and the husks separately. 4231. When ive examine a grain of wheat, we find that it is inclosed in a husk which is ^ covered by minute chaflFy scales ; and on one side of the grain may be observed ^ \ a groove, which, when the plant is gi-owing, is turned towards the central axis of the ear, called by botanists the rachis. The husk itself is a membranous substance investing the seed closely, but which may be readily pulled off after the grain has been soaked in warm water ; and this, when ground off by the mill, constitutes the bran. Immediately beneath this exterior covering is the part of the farinaceous matter which affords the coarsest flour, called Fig.6\b. ptjilard; it is Soft to the touch, of rather a darkish colour, not very easily re- duced to an impalpable powder, and of a sweetish taste. It constitutes about one half of the farina, and enters into the composition of brown bread. Underneath this lies what is termed by the millers the kernel or heart of the wheat, which is a hard, whitish, and almost pellucid substance. This part is readily reduced to an impalpable powder, and it alone constitutes the fme while flour. The internal part of wheat varies in its hardness in different countries ; when the Spanish wheat was introduced into the English market, a difficulty was experienced in grinding it, from the extreme hardness of the grains. This distinction of qualities is not observed in the other grains, as in them the whole of the farinaceous matter is of a uniform quality. The flour or ground farina of wheat is there- fore subjected to processes not necessary for the rest, in which it is sufficient to separate the husk bruised by grinding, from the meal. The husk of barley, when dry, is very firmly attached to the kernel, and does not separate easily in grinding, and a good deal of it generally remains in the meal, which is one of the causes of the huskiness of barley bread ; when the meal is ground very fine, this is less apparent. The husk of oats and of rice separate easily and entirely; oatmeal and rice are therefore quite free from the husk. SuBSECT. 2. — Cleaning Com previous to grinding. 4232. Corn frequently contains impurities, which, if ground up with the flour, injure its qualities. These consist of more or less in some cases of the smut-ball, mildew, and 3 B 4