589 BREWING. Chap. III. public opinion respecting their deleterious qualities, that ahout 1650, the Common Council of the City of London petitioned parliament against two nuisances; one of which was " Newcastle coals; and the other bops, in regard they spoiled the taste of drink and endangered the health of the people." Hops were also petitioned against in the reign of Henry VI. as " a wicked weed." 3325. It is therefore probable that ale had originally but a small quantity of bitter, and was either not calculated for keeping, being drunk very new, or that it was prepared with honey without bitters, as is practised in the south of France and other places, and perhaps bottled or kept in some kind of close vessels, being rather a species of barley wine than like our modern ales. We find it statedn the " Maison rustique," 1616, that" the generall vse is by no means to put any hops into ale : making that the difference between it and bcere, that the one hath hops, the other none : but the wiser huswiues do find an error in that opinion, and say the vtter want of hops is the reason why ale lasteth so little a time, but either dyeth or soureth, and therefore they will to euery barrell of the best ale allow halfe a pound of good hops." Thus the use of hops seems to have advanced gradually, partly from finding that it preserved the beer from turning acid, and partly from a taste for it now becoming habitual. Many of the herbs formerly thought to give an agreeable flavour would not now perhaps have many admirers, which is not surprising, since few persons like porter who are not used to it. It is curious to observe that the mode of brewing in Scotland was formerly nearly the same as that followed on the Con- tinent (see Subsect. 3. " Scotch ale" and Subsect. 4. " Account of the Beers on the Conti- nent"). But this agreement is the less remarkable, when we consider the correspondence in the architecture and many circumstances in their habits, owing to their political con- nexion. The invention of porter, which was quite peculiar to England, has produced a great change in the taste of the public with respect to malt liquors in South Britain. Subsect. 2.—Porter, 3326. Porter is a malt liquor peculiarly English : the chief difference between it and ale is, that the former derives a dark colour and astringent taste from the use of brown or highly dried malt; from its having more hops than ale ; and from the saccharine matter having been more exhausted in the fermentation, or, as the brewers say, having the attenuation carried farther, so that porter, as contrasted with ale, may be considered as a dry malt liquor. From these circumstances this beverage has been preferred in England, being considered as more wholesome than ale, when made, as it ought to be, from pure malt and hops. 3327. The origin of a beverage so extensively used in the British dominions is carious enough, and is thus stated by Malone. " Before the year 1730, the malt liquors in general use in London were ale, beer, and twopenny, and it was customary for the drinkers of malt liquor to call for a pint or a tankard of half and half, that is, half of ale and half of beer, or half of beer and half of twopenny. In course of time it also became the practice to call for a pint or tankard of three threads, meaning a third of ale, of beer, and of twopenny, and thus the pub- lican had the trouble to go to three casks, and turn three cocks for a pint of liquor. To avoid this incon- venience and waste, a brewer of the name of Harwood conceived the idea of making a liquor which should partake of the united flavours of ale, beer, and twopenny. He did so, and succeeded, calling it miir^, or entire butt; and as it was a very hearty and nourishing liquor, it was very suitable for porters or other working people : hence it obtained the name of porter." It would be no easy matter to ascertain what was the precise quality of the porter of that time, but it was very probably different in some respects from the beverage of the same name made at present, in consequence of changes in the ingredients and the mode of manufacture, likewise in the taste of the public, and also from enactments which have restricted the ingredients within narrower limits than they were once confined to. The distinctive character of porter being its brown colour and acerb taste, derived from the highly dried malt, the depth of colour was supposed to indicate in some degree the strength of the liquor, and, while brown malt alone was employed, this was the case. But in consequence of the taxes on malt, and the high prices it rose to during the late war with France, brewers paid more attention to the subject, and they found that the heat used in rendering the malt brown destroyed some of the saccharine matter, and thus that the deep colour of porter was produced at the expense of the most valuable part which gave strength to the beer. They were induced, therefore, to use pale malt for the fermentation, as producing most strength, and, in consequence, being less expensive; but as the beer from this was deficient in that flavour which had been produced by the use of brown malt, and which was so much valued by porter drinkers, and as the porter was paler than before, in order to conceal these defects they had recourse to various colouring substances and drugs of various kinds. 3328. In consequence of a general complaint on this subject, an act was passed in 1816, by which all ingredients whatever, except malt and hops, were forbidden to be used in the making of malt liquor by the manufacturing brewer, as we before stated ; and likewise all other substances to produce an artificial colouring, the chief of which had been burnt sugar. Soon afterwards, however, a discovery was made that in malt roasted almost black, in the manner of coffee, though the fermentable matter is totally destroyed, yet a