BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES Book VIIL 570 ing, a considerable quantity of -water by evaporation. The loss in the cooling is often more than one-eighth of the whole bulk of the wort; its strength, therefore, becomes greater. SuBSECT. 4. — Fermentation of Malt Liquor in the Tun. 3209. We now proceed to describe the principal process in brewing, that for which all that has hitherto been done is but preparatory. By this process the sweet mild decoction called wort is to be converted into a brisk lively liquor or ak containing a considerable portion of spirit. As the general principles of fermentation have been already fully treated of, we shall now only touch upon them as far as they are necessarily connected with our present subject. 3210. We have said that a solution of perfectly pure suyar in water will not ferment of itself, although one made with brown or coarse sugar ferments very readily. The sugar made from starch will likewise ferment of itself, and of course the saccharine matter of malt, as well as a solution of the sugar of grapes. In the general view of the fermentation of wort, therefore, we may suppose that the yeast employed might be omitted, because it is not absolutely necessary to this process, but seems merely to render the effect more certain and rapid, and consequently prevents the passage of the liquid into acidity, which almost always takes place when the fermentation is very slow. 3211. In some of the counties in England it has always been a practice in private brewing to trust to spontaneous fermentation, instead of employing yeast to begin the fermentation, as is the usual mode. Mr. Booth, who has seen this method, which appears not to be generally understood, informs us that when the wort is sufficiently boiled, it is put at once, boiling hot, into the casks, merely separating the hops without any clarification. In about forty- eight hours the fermentation is known to have commenced, by the appearance of a froth or yeast which is seen to issue from the bung-hole. The quantity of yeast that comes out from the cask is not considerable, and, in the com-se of eight or ten days, the ferment- ation subsides. It is now found that the yeast, which has been forming all the while, has collected into a solid crust on the surface of the liquor, which has at last, in consequence of contraction as it cooled, shrunk away from the yeast, leaving a vacuity between the liquor and the crust; and it is said that this crust of solid yeast is of use in defending the beer from the air. This ale cleans by subsidence only, but requires to be kept for a twelvemonth before it is fit to drink. Only strong ale can be fermented in this manner, for weak worts would run into acidity before the vinous fermentation could be completed. A similar mode of fermentation is employed in Brussels and other parts of the Continent. 3212. By far the most general method, however, in this country, and which is considered as making the best and wholesomest malt liquor, is to commence the fermentation by adding to the wort a certain quantity of ijcast procured from another brewing; and this is, accordingly, the method which we recommend, and which we shall now describe. 3213. Wlien the wort is cooled down to the proper temperature by exposure in the coolers, wliich may be about 70° in temperate weather according to some brewers, but with others as low as 60° or even 50°, it is run into a strongly-hooped vessel, deep, and of a suitable sizf, called the fermenting tun or vat, or, as the brewers tei-m it, the gyle tun. This should be larger than would be merely necessary to hold the wort, because a considerable increase of bulk takes place during the fermentation, in consequence of which the liquor would run over except allowance were made for it. On this account its capacity should be one- half greater than the bulk of the wort; and it should have a cover to exclude the air. 3214 It may be proper here to recapitulate the leading facts which render this process of fermentation necessary. The vinous fermentation, or the production of alcohol or spirit, which forms the intoxi- cating part, or strength as it is called, of malt liquors, cannot be induced except through the medium of some kind of saccharine matter; and the use of malt is to supply a species of sugar, which, though not exactly the same as that of the sugar-cane, is yet equally fit for fermentation. A solution of coarse sugar in water, we have seen, will ferment of itself, but, to expedite this process, a substance called a ferment is added, which sub- stance is contained in yeast that has been thrown up by some previous fermentation. When this ferment comes into contact with saccharine matter under favourable circum- stances, a peculiar chemical action takes place, in consequence of which the sugar is decomposed or separated into its elementary constituents, and these are re-combined in another manner, so as to give rise to two new substances, alcohol or .spirit, and car- bonic acid. The yeast itself is likewise decomposed; but the nature of this decora- position is obscure, and we may disregard it ; since the alcohol and the carbonic acid themselves make up the exact weight of the sugar, we may consider it alone as supplying the alcohol. The alcohol being the liquid which we wish to form, it fol- lows, that the more sugar is decomposed the stronger will be the malt liquor; and its strength will depend partly upon the quantity of saccharine matter, or. in other words, mult or grain, employed, and partly upon the success with which the fermentation has