Book VII. 498 ON FOOD. The expressed jui6e of the cucumber is employed as a cosmetic, giving a pleasant supple- ness to the skin, and it enters into the composition of several French pomades. StTBSECT. 5. — Fig (JFicus Carica). 2746. The Jig tree is a native of Asia, and was known to the Israelites, as we learn from the Scriptures. The fruit appears to have formed a principal article of food among the inhabitants of ancient Syria and Greece, and was so much esteemed for its nutritive qualities, that it was considered as an emblem of fruitfulness. Like the cerealia it enjoys a considerable range of latitude. Dried figs and barley bread is a general food among the lower classes of Greece in the present day. In the northern parts of France there are many fig gardens ; but it is not generally cultivated in England, except on waUs, or in the hothouse, the climate bemg scarcely warm enough to admit of its flourishing as a standard in the open air; never- theless it will ripen its fruit in some open situations in the south part of England. There is an orchard of fig trees at Tarring, near Worthing, where the fruit ripens nearly as well as in S^iain, and the trees are exceedingly productive. There are also some fig trees above thirty feet high in the gardens at Arundel Castle. Figs grow likewise in some other places, and there is no doubt that they could be easily raised for fruit on the coast of Sussex, if sulBcient attention were paid to that object. It is generally supposed that the fig was not planted in England before the reign of Henry VIII., when the arts began to be encouraged, and noblemen's houses first put on the air of Italian magnificence. There are at present some fig trees in the Episcopal Gardens at Lambeth, said to have been planted by Cardinal Pole; and at Oxford, in the Botanic Garden of the Regius Professor of Hebrew, there is a fig tree which was brought from the East, and planted by Dr. Pocock in 1648. 2747. TIlb fig contains a large portion of sugar without acidity or oiliness, and is of easier digestion than any other of the sweet fruits. They are considered to be laxative. 2748. The best dried kinds come from Turkey, Italy, Provence, and Spain. Smyrna is a great mart; but the figs of the Grecian Archipelago are inferior to those of Europe. Figs are prepared by dipping the ripe fruit in a scalding hot ley made of the ashes of the fig tree, and then dried in the sun, or in ovens, and packed very close in chests. In the Canaries, Portugal, and the Grecian islands, they make a kind of brandy from them. In medicine, figs are employed as emollient cataplasms and pectoral decoctions. SuBSECT. 6.— Tamarind {Tamarindus Indica). 2749. The tamarind is the fruit or rather pod of a tree which is a native of the East and West Indies, and thrives also in Egypt, Palestine, and Arabia. In the countries where it is produced it forms occasionally an article of food, in the form of confectionery, and is esteemed on account of its pleasant acid and cooling qualities, so useful in a warm climate. The pod consists of two parts; the outer is fleshy, and the inner thin as the finest parchment: between these two there is a space of about a quarter of an inch, which is filled up with a soft pulpy substance, of a tart but agreeable taste; this, and the seeds which are inclosed in. the inner pod are fastened together by many slender fibres from the woody stalk which runs through the pod. The tree is common in Jamaica, is ex- tremely beautiful, and grows to a great size, with large spreading branches, and a thick and luxuriant foliage. The pods are gathered when ripe, freed from the shelly frag- ments, and placed in layers in a cask ; boiling syrup is then poured over them till the cask is filled; the syrup pervades every part quite to the bottom, and when cool the heads of the casks are fixed down for sale. The more elegant method, however, is to clarify the juice of the fruit with the white of eggs, and form it with sugar into a clear transparent syrup; this or the fruit supplies an agreeable and cooling beverage. The East India tamarinds are generally preserved by putting alternate layers of tamarinds and powdered sugar into a stone jar, by which means the fruit retains more of its natural taste and appearance. They are also sent fi'om the East Indies in their natural state without sugar; but except these are kept in very close jars they are apt to get musty. 2750. According to Vauquelin, tamarinds contain in the pulp, independent of the sugar used to preserve it, super-tartrate of potassa, gum, jelly, citric acid, tartaric acid, malic acid, and a feculent matter. The acid taste depends chiefly upon the citric acid, the quantity of that being the greatest.