Book VI11. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. C50 called wine, another principle besides sugar and a fei-nient is necessary. This additional principle is tartaric acid, which is always present in the juice of fruite, but most abundantly in that of grapes. 3102. Sugar and tartar alone will not ferment; therefore tartar cannot be the natural ferment, but the latter is contained in some other principle in grape juice, and probably not very different from the ferment in wort. If the experiment of fermenting sugar and tartar be made in a wooden vessel, they will ferment alone: but this experiment will be deceptive, for the wood supplies the ferment. ♦ 3103. It is essential also to a complete fermentation that there should be a just proportion leliveen the saccharine matter and die ferment or yeast. If the yeast be in too gi-eat a quan- tity, there is a danger of the fermentation being too rapid, and that the liquor, after all the sugar is exhausted, should, by a continuance of the fermentation, pass into the acetous State: if, on the contrary, the yeast be too little, the fermentation will be too languid, too little alcohol will be produced, the whole of the saccharine matter will not be decomposed, and the liquor remain sweet. A perfect fermentation is when the whole of the saccharine matter and of the ferment are decomposed by their acting upon each other, being thus converted into alcohol. But it is sometimes desired to have the fermented liquor a sweet vinous liquid. In that case the quantity of ferment must be less than would be necessary to decompose the whole of the sugar, or the action of both upon each other may be reduced by some expedient, such as separating some of the ferment by a filter. 3104. Fermentation probabl;/ commences somewhat sooner than it appears to do by the bubbles of gas which are the first indications ; for the first carbonic acid gas that is pro- duced in consequence of the process is absorbed by the water of the fermenting liquor, and it is only when the liquid is saturated, that the gas escapes into the atmosphere with the appearance of effervescence. 3105. A certain degree of temperature is essential to the process of fermentation. Sub- stances cannot ferment if exposed to considerable cold : the vinous fermentation cannot take place at the freezing point, or 32° ; at 50° it is languid; at 60° it is quickened, and at 70° is so rapid that there is danger of its passing into the acetous ; but again, if the heat be much more considerable, yet below boiling, fennentation cannot happen ; thus too low or too great a degree of heat prevents this process from taking place, or arrests it if begun. As the fermentation of beer does not succeed if the heat exceeds 77°, this beverage cannot be made in very warm climates, and very cold ones would require much expense to produce sufficient artificial heat. 3106. The heat excited, by fermenta tion is one of its most striking phenomena. Its cause is entirely unknown, but an increased temperature is frequently one of the results of the decomposition of bodies. It will not begin until the temperature is raised to a certain point; and the heat excited by it is in proportion to the bulk of the fermenting mass, and the rapidity of the process. If the heat generated by the process, joined to that of the atmosphere, arise to too great a degree, it is necessai-y to I'estrain it, lest the vinous should pass into the acetous stage, and this is often found necessary by brewers and distillers. In the making of wine strong must wiU bear a higher temperature than weak must; as the alcohol which is produced has a power itself in checking the fermentation, and also of preventing the acetic process ; but in too high a temperature the juice of fruits that contain too little of the fermenting principle is apt to absorb oxygen, and to become sour ; and this is often the case in the making of sweet wines. The larger the quantity of liquor, the lower the temperature may be at the beginning, as the process itself generates much heat. When the fermentation languishes from deficiency of heat, it is easily augmented by introducing a stove into the apartment where the process is conducted, or by heating a portion of the fluid and then mixing this with the mass; agitation will difi'use an equal tempei-ament through the whole. It is very important during fermenta- tion to guard the fermenting vessel against any irregularities of temperature from change of weather or other causes. 3107. Tlie effect of air on fermentation was long disputed, but is now better understood. It was once thought that no fermentation could tsilce place in vessels absolutely close ; and that the reverse practice, fermenting for a long time, in open vessels, was productive of much injury and loss ; partly from the evaporation of the alcohol as soon as it was formed, and partly by the yeast becoming sour and putrid, and communicating these properties to the wine, or other fermenting liquor. But the fact, as now ascertained, is as follows : if artificial ferment be used, a perfect fermentation wiU take place in vessels however closed, from air ; but if the natural ferment only is present, as in the case of the mere juices of fruits, fermentation will not occur, as is shown by some experiments by Gay Lussac, which we shall describe, unless air be admitted. 3108. Gat/ Lussac s e.vperiments on the necessity of oxygen to excite fermentation are important, as showing how small a quantity of it is suflicient. He took a bottle of the must of the grape, which had already been preserved more than a year by Mr. Appcrt's method of excluding the air, and was still perfectly limpid: he decanted this juice into