952 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVIL three-quarters of an inch thick, and this roll or carding has at first one end fixed to the spindle, while with the left hand of the spinster it is drawn out into a loose coarse thread called a roving, about the thickness of a quill ; the wheel is turned with the right hand, by means of a cord that passes to the spindle. The motion thus communicated to the carding twists it spirally ; when twisted it is wound upon the spindle; another carding is attached to the last, drawn out and twisted, and thus, by adding one roll to another, is formed a continued thread or roving. These rovings are next spun into yarn fit for the weaver by the same hand-wheel, and nearly in the same manner as the cardings were made into rovings. Worsted is spun in a different manner, and more resembling flax- spinning, from long wool prepared by the wool-comber. 5600. Such wereAe spinning-wlieeh universally used in tliis country and on the Continent previous to the year 1764, when, by a succession of inventions imparalleled in the history of the arts, spinning underwent a complete revolution, and was effected with an extraor- dinary degree of dispatch by means of some of the most curious and complicated ma- chinery ever devised by human ingenuity ; in consequence of which, yarn is spvm with an extraordinary degree of regularity, and of various degree of fineness adapted to the dif- ferent tissues for which they are destined, from the coarsest cloth to the finest cambric or lace. But as the great improvements in spinning by means of machines originated in the cotton manufacture, we shall reserve our account of them to the description of " Cotton Fabrics." Nevertheless, the spinning-wheel is a pleasing object in cottage scenery, and notwithstanding the superior cheapness of machine-made yarn, it is, perhaps, desirable that some employment should be reserved in a simple state, which may fill up the vacant hours of rural life, and offer some reward to humble industry; or which may be put into practice in places where complicated machinery cannot be obtained. Sect. III. WEAVING. 5601. Woven cloth is always composed of two sets of threads, or, as the weavers call them, yarii, crossing each other at right angles. One set extends the whole length of the web or piece of cloth, and is called the warp; the other set runs from side to side of the web, or across the cloth, and is called the woof or weft; the latter is not a succession of dif- ferent threads, but one continued thread through the whole piece of cloth; it passes alternately under and over each thread of the warp, until it arrives at the outside one, or edge of the web; it then passes round the edge, and returns back over and under each warp thread as before, but so that it now goes under those threads which it went over before, thus firmly knitting together the woven tissue. The outside yarn of the warp, round which the weft doubles, is called the selvage (^self-edge), and cannot be unravelled without breaking the weft. This structure of cloth is easily seen by examining a piece of linen or calico with a magnifying glass (Jig. 779. a), and may be observed on a large scale in matting, which is woven of coarse grass, or similar sub- -ji—;i—-tsj Stances. (J fj If 5602. Indeed, some kind of matting made of the fibrous parts of plants, as Fig. 779. the stalk, such as the rushes and straws, was probably the first kind of cloth invented by rude and uncivilised nations; and the art of spinning threads from fine fibres was probably a refinement upon this, which led to the weaving of what we, at the present time, term cloth. Some nations are still ignorant of the art of weaving; for the cloth made in Otaheite, where it was first discovered by Captain Cook, was made by merely cementing vegetable fibres together, and was very analogous to our paper ; and the Tartars make cloth by merely felting wool. 5603 When the process of spinning threads n-om the dehcate and short fibres which animals and vegetables afford was discovered, the weaver was furnished with a material superior to any fibres in their simple state, and the foundation was laid of the art of pro- ducing woven cloth. When, and by whom, that discovery was made is not known ; but it appears to have happened early in the history of mankind. The cultivation of flax was practised by the ancient Egyptians, and it is recorded that Pharaoh was arrayed m vest- ments of fine linen. The Hindoos have made cotton cloth from time immemorial, and the Hebrews were also in possession of the arts of weaving, dyeing, and embroidery. 5604 Weavimi was introduced into Britain by the Romans along with other arts of civilisation ■ but, from various causes, so little did our British ancestors profit by the ex- ample whicii had been thus set, that for several ages a great part of their wool was ex- ported to the Low Countries, where weaving had been successfully practised, and brought back in the form of cloth. At so late a period as 1331, this art was so little understood in Encland. that the arrival of two weavers from Brabant is recorded m the chronicles, among the important events of that time. But it was the religious persecution under the