ClIAP. IV. COTTON FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. 981 factures. The manufacture of muslins was attempted at Paisley as early as 1700; but it ■was not till eighty years afterwards that British muslins became a rival to those from India. In 1785, they were much improved, since which period their progress has been rapid beyond all example. In the year 1787, it -was computed that not less than 500,000 pieces of muslin, including shawls and handkerchiefs, were annually made in Great Britain. The manufacture has from that time to the present continued progressively to increase, and bids fair to become the most lucrative and extensive of any in this country. Glasgow and Paisley in Scotland, and Bolton in Lancashire, are the chief seats of this manufacture. It is proper to observe that the Swiss had succeeded long before us in the manufacture of muslins at Zurich and St. Gall; yet our inventions in spinning gave us a great advantage over them; these improvements, however, they have lately adopted. Considerable muslin manufactories are established in Germany. The muslins and other cotton goods of India, notwithstanding the simple and primitive processes of spinning and weaving by which they are produced, still retain, in some degree, their superiority over those of British manufacture, particularly for durability and retaining their whiteness. But in our finer fabrics the imitation is so close as scarcely to be distinguished from the original; and it requires a practised eye to discriminate between an India and a British mull. Some depend upon the supposed marks of the manu- facturer, or the perfume of the cedar boxes in which the India muslins are imported; but these are circumstances easily counterfeited where fraud is intended. 5778. The following are the varieties of muslin now generally known here : — Jacconet is a very general fabric of the lighter description of muslin, very open and soft, but somewhat stouter than the muUmul; the name is supposed to be a corruption of Jaghernout, the district in India where these muslins are chiefly made. It is the thickest of the soft muslins used for dresses, neckcloths, &c. Nainsook is a still thicker kind of jacconet. These are plain and striped, the stripe running the way of the warp. Mull muslin is a very thin and soft kind, used for dresses, trimmings, &c. Siviss mull is dressed and stiffened. Seerhand is between nainsork and mull, particularly adapted for dresses, on account of its retaining its clearness after washing. Buhe muslin (erroneously written boo/i) is a plain clear kind of muslin ; it is either lawn buke, or stiffened to imitate the French clear lawn ; or hard, and more stiffened and dressed ; or it is soft to imitate the India buke. Buke muslin is woven for working in the tambour. Foundation muslin is a very open worked muslin, used by dressmakers for stiffening dresses and bonnets. It may be had either in white or black. Lena is thinner and clearer than buke muslin, and may almost be called a cotton gauze ; often employed for window blinds. Cambric viuslin is an imitation of cambric. It is sometimes glazed white, black, and coloured for linings, and it is also twilled. It is figured, striped, or corded. Cord and fancy checks are cambric muslins with stripes and cords placed across each other checquer-wise, by thick threads being introduced into the warp or weft. Figured muslins are wrought in the loom of various widths, to imitate those worked in the tambour Tamboured muslin must be distinguished from the last, being embroidered by hand on the tambour. The more open kinds of muslin are best fitted for being ornamented with figures by needle-work on the tambour, the lightness and transparency of the fabric forming a contrast with the closeness of the needle-work. Scotland is the chief seat of the manufac- ture of tamboured muslins. Cotton cambric is separated into two kinds; cambrics to be used for dresses either white or printed, and cambric to be used for the same purposes as French cambric. The first is made in Lancashire, the other at Glasgow. Scotch cambric. One might suppose from the name that this was made of flax ; but it is a fine cloth made of cotton to imitate French cambric. From the confused language of shopkeepers, it is necessary to keep in mind that cambric is properly a manufacture from flax and not from cotton. Cmimon gauze is a variety of woven texture much used for light purposes. It is formed by the warp being twisted somewhat like a rope during the operation of weaving, by which the cloth acquires a considerable resemblance to lace. The texture of this gauze is always open, flimsy, and transparent, but from the turning of the warp it possesses an uncommon degree of strength and tenacity, in proportion to the quantity of materials which it contains. This quality, together with its transparency, fits it for ornamental purposes of various kinds, particularly for flowering or figuring either with the needle or in the loom. Nankeen was originally a Chinese manufacture only, and, it is said, derived its agreeablo 3 R 3