1186 THE DAIRY. AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Book XXV. CHAP. X. FISH PONDS. 7020. It is much less the custom to keep fish in ponds at present than it was in former times, when the Roman Catholic was the established religion of this country; in conse- quence of which fish was almost an essential article of food two days in the week, and for which reason fish ponds are still very numerous on the Continent. At that time, also, the communication between the sea coast and the inland parts of this kingdom was much more difficult than at present. The situations in which fish ponds are most easily formed is in a small narrow steep valley, through which a stream of water runs. By building a dam across the valley, the water is stopped and collected, and a pond is formed without any further trouble. Several such ponds may be made by collecting the water that overflows by similar dams lower down, provided there be water enough. In other situations, ponds must be dug, and made water-tight by clay or some other material; a soft, marly, or muddy bottom is best, with a warm exposure. 7021. The kinds offresh water fish generally kept in pmds are carp, tench, perch, gudgeon, eel, and pike. Of these carp is the most usual; they multiply fast, dnd grow to a large size. Under the best system of management three ponds are required, one for breeding, another for rearing, and a third for fattening. 7022. To stock a pond full-grown fish should be put in early in the spring, the season for spawning being from the latter end of May till the beginning of July. When the fish have spawned, they should be put into the feeding pond, and the young fry should be left to themselves till the spawning season next year: they are then removed into the rearing pond, where they remain for two years, when they will have grown to the length of four, five, or six inches. This pond is then drawn, and all the fish above five inches are put into the feeding pond, from which the largest are taken as wanted for use. The natural food of carp consists of larvae of insects, worms, and soft aquatic plants; but to obtain these fish of a large size they are fed in stews in rain water, on garbage, boiled potatoes, rice, bread, or any soft food. Carp will grow to the weight of three pounds in six years, and six pounds in ten years, and they have been known to exceed that consi- derably. They are in season from October to April. In very large ponds, such as they have on the Continent, scarcely any food is given. Tench are generally put into the same pond with carp, as is the case in Berkshire, where there are many fish ponds. They will live in foul stagnant water in which no other fish can exist: this occasions them to have often a muddy taste when cooked for table, except they are kept for about a week previously in clean water. Perch require cleaner water than either carp or tench, and the ponds in which they are kept ought to have a stream running through it; but they will thrive in stews if the water is kept clean: they grow sometimes to the size of two feet. Gudgeons are small fish, and, being much inferior to carp or tench, are reared chiefly as food for pike and perch. Eels will live in stagnant water, and require a pond through which there is some current, as mill ponds, but may also be kept in stews; in ponds they are destructive to other fish. The pike is a very voracious fish, and re- quires to be kept by itself; some grow to the size of several feet; in default of other fish as food, they will devour any small animals. 7023. Salt-wa ter fish of several species can be presen'ed, and even fattened, in fresh •water ponds, particularly the flounder and other flat fish of the genus Pleuronectes, the mullet, &c. Lately some experiments of this kind have been attended with complete success. See Brande's Quarterly Journal, Nos. 33 and 34. i