881 Chap. I. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY, Sect. I. butcher's meat. SuBSECT. 1.—Beef. In England, heef is almost always salted a little before it is boiled, and is then usually termed corned beef. The general principles for salting meat have been described in Book X. Chap. III., to -which we refer the reader: but we here add the usual modes of salting it in this manner for a family. For a round of beef a pound and a half of salt dried before a fire must be rubbed into the meat; it is then put into a salting pan in a cool place, and the brine that melts should be returned upon the meat every day. The length of time it is to remain in salt will depend upon the degree of saltness desired, usually from three to ten days. If the beef is required to be red, saltpetre is used. A pickle is made for twenty pounds of beef, of three pounds of common salt and one ounce of saltpetre with two large table- spoonfuls of brown sugar. After having been well rubbed with salt, the beef is kept in this pickle for ten days or a fortnight. Beef to be boiled should be put into lukewarm water, if the salting is just sufficient, but if it is thought to be too salt, then it should be put into cold water. The time of boiling allowed is a quarter of an hour for every pound of meat. The boiling should be steady, and the skimming carefully performed. The brisket requires somewhat more time than the round. Boiled beef is served up with greens, carrots, or turnips. 4944. Beef bouilli is sometimes made of the rump, but it is equally good, and less ex- pensive, if made of brisket. Put nine or ten pounds of it into a kettle with three carrots, one turnip, an onion, and some celery, all cut small; cover with cold water and set it on to boil; as the scum rises remove it carefully. Keep it gently simmering, take off the lid partially, and, as the water boUs away, add as much hot water as will keep the meat covered. After thus simmering from four to five hours, draw otf most of the soup and place it to cool, that the fat may be more easily removed. To the soup more vegetables, previously cut small and boiled by themselves, may be added, or it may be served in a tureen with vermicelli. The beef, from which the bones should be removed, may then be served and garnished with the vegetables boiled with it. A snuce is sometimes served with it made of some of the soup, thickened with flour and butter, and flavoured with a thick-made mustard and the vinegar of pickled walnuts. 4945. Rump of beef stewed in its own gravy.—Boil a boned rump about eight or nine hours over a very slow fire, the pan being just covered with water. Put in a little parsley, a laurel leaf, a clove of garlic, two eschalots, a small bunch of thyme, four cloves, half a nutmeg, pepper, and salt. When done, withdraw the gravy, and cool it till the fat can be cleared away. Boil it up again and pour over the beef when served. 4946. Stewed rump steaks.—Four pounds of rump, or, if tender, of common beefsteaks, cut very thick, must be peppered and fi-ied brown in their own fat. Fry also in two ounces of butter some carrots, cut into dice or shapes, a large bunch of parsley and some eschalots coarsely chopped; add to these three large onions shredded, a handful of small mushrooms, and some celery cut small. Dredge the vegetables with flour, and when they begin to be tender, moisten them with a wine glass of port wine, a pint of beef gravy, and two table-spoonfuls of strong vinegar ; season these with pepper and salt, and put the steaks in them, after which the whole must simmer, but never boil, for three hours. The gravy must first be poured away from the meat and vegetables into a deep dish, and the fat must be removed from its surface; the meat and vegetables must then be added to it, and it is ready for table. Oi check stewed. —Blanch (see terms explained) a cheek to cleanse it thoroughly; braise the check with thin slices of bacon, and n.ivoiir tlic gravy by putting in one onion, twenty peppercorns, some allspice three slices of lemon (not peehHl), .ind as much gravy or broth as will keep it stewing without covering it! and .TS this boils away more must be added. Five hours must be allowed for stewing it j and when done, the hones may be easily removed ; the head being neatly trimmed and glazed must be served with a sharp sauce, or sauce of roots. 4947. Sirloin of beef roasted. — Fifteen or twenty pounds in weight will require from three and a half to four hours roasting. As the upper, or outside as it is called, has seldom the same depth of meat as the under, or inside, it should be papered over for a couple of hours, and the fat also on the inside. Garnish it with hillocks of horse-radish. The rump of beef is sometimes roasted, and is excellent. 4948. Ribs of beef roasted should have tlie long thin parts papered, or the beef will be unequally roasted. A quarter of an hour to a pound of meat will allow sufficient time for roasting it, unless the weather be frosty, when an additional twenty minutes should be given to it. In hot weather, or when the meat is ripe, so much time need not be al.owed. Sauce, — horse-radish and vinegar and water served in a tjjreen.