1199 HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. 11.4 p. I. are often made ill by the immediate injudicious degree to which their out-door exercises : are allowed to extend, wliile those who are under more prudent direction in this respect, I often derive the utmost benefit from the more measured enjoyment of their absence from I towns and cities. It has been remarked that amongst all the public institutions of 1 European cities, none have provided for the innocent pleasures of children. In cities 1 -where private gardens, if there be any, can only be secured to the alSuent, how beneficial > would be, to the humbler classes, airy grounds into which their children might be turned, ; safe from all the hazards and accidents of the streets, their only play-ground. Such 'Would indeed be pleasure-grounds and would conduce more to the welfare of rising j generations than even the infant schools. 7099. It may be said that children would soon he tired of such play-grounds. The t enjoyment seen among the flocks of children resorting to the open parts of the Regent's IPark, during the greater part of the year, contradicts this objection ; were such places I multiplied round the town, and free access allowed to children, disease would find fewer 1 victims among the poor than at present is the case. SuBSECT. 4. — Clothing of Infants and Children. 7100. Tlie clothing of infants should be ivarm, light, and loose. Warm clothing is (essential to infants, during the early period of their existence in which their organs and i functions are so feeble, that any excess of cold would quickly destroy the vital principle ' within them. Life in infancy is more than at any other period, at the mercy of external i influences. Sudden transitions from warm to cold check, in an infant, the circulation [previously going on on the surface of the body, and drives the blood internally, so hastily : as to cause some immediate evil, which would come under the general tei'm " Inflamma- ttion." Either the bowels, lungs, windt5ipe or head may be attacked ; hence, in the I choice of an infants clothing, that kind should be employed which may seem best adapted t to secure the equal and tranquil diSusion of the blood throughout the system. Although s sufficiently warm, it should be also light. If overloaded with its dress, especially in ! apartments in which the temperature is high, pi'ofuse perspiration may be induced in an i infant, a state which is as carefully to be avoided as that caused by extreme cold. I Frequent and copious perspii-ations impoverish the blood and enfeeble the internal (organs. 7101. By warm clothing is meant use of such materials and textures as best retain iwhen in use the heat imparted to them by the body, such materials are called non-conductors (of heat, and consist of flannels, woollen fabrics, and furs. In these heat accumulates. J and is recommunicated to the body of the wearer. 7102. Cool clothing, such as linen, conducts heat; and even to a certain degree miislin I and cotton are conductors of heat. The warmth they receive they as easily part with, and i it is carried off into the atmosphere. 7103. Flannel worn next the skin acts upon it like a gentle flesh bnish, warming the § surface and stimulating the nerves and fine vessels of the skin, soft and light as well as (of a warming quality. Flannel cannot, in this country at least, be dispensed with as an (article of infant clothing. Most of the infant's under garments are of this material, (although immediately next the chest and arms a fine linen or cambric shirt is worn. . Above the flannel is a light petticoat of muslin, and above this a loose dress with long ssleeves, and made to draw tight on the chest. As it is not well to fatigue a young infant iwith needless change of clothes, the dress as above mentioned is for the first fortnight or t three weeks seldom changed more than once in twenty-four hours. At the end of a I month or six weeks, the infant is strong enough generally to be dressed and undressed morning and night, when a difierence is made between the day and night clothing; in (the latter, a sort of flannel wrapper is worn instead of a flannel petticoat. 7104. Infants for the first three or four months are clothed in very long petlicoats. There i is some utility in having the clothes of very young children of a considerable length, I they help to keep the extremities of the infant safe from cold air, which would otherwise (chill an infant very severely, and long clothes do also give a nurse a good hold of a child, '■who without sufficient clothing would be apt to slip out of the arms ; but to have thein (80 long as to trail on the ground, or to float with every move made by the nurse, so as to I reach the bars of the grate, is preposterous, and even dangerous, and the good sense of I mothers ought to be exerted to lay aside this worthless fashion, and adopt a more moderate I manner in this respect. The only really essential points in infant clothing are warmth, (simplicity, ease, and cleanliness. 7105. Ease ought never to be sacrificed to appearance ; no dress that is made so as I to compress or bind the person of an infant should be allowed; the use of all bandages, I swaddling clothes, tiglit ligatures, is most carefully to be forbidden. Every article of an i infant's dress should be made as loose and easy as if it could, if needful, be made to slip off