913 GChap I. RECEIPT FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. or citron and a couple of glasses of cherry brandy. Boil it five hours. This pudding imav be baked if you prefer it. 3272. Plain plum piuldmg.— Stone half a pound of raisins, clean very well half a 'pound of currants, chop finely half a pound of beef suet, grate a pound of bread-crumbs, pound a few bitter and sweet almonds, and shred a little candied peel ; mix these tho- roughly together, and moisten them with milk; put the whole either into one mould, or into three small ones. Boil the large one for four or five hours, the small for three. .5273. Suet pudding Take beef suet chopped fine and flour, of each half a pound, three eggs, whites and ■folks well beaten together; mix these with as much milk as will be required to make it ot a proper con- isistence ; add some salt and a little powdered allspice ; tie it firmly in a cloth, and boil it thoroughly. 5274. Marrow pudding.— Pour gradually a quart of boiling milk on half a pound of Naples biscuits and tthe same quantity of chopped marrow ; mix them well together, and let them cool ; when cold, beat up six folks of eggs and the whites of two only, which stir into the other ingredients ; add a handful of currants picked and washed, thin slices of candied citron, and a little powdered cinnamon ; sheet the sides and rim of :the dish with puff paste and bake it. SuBSECT. 2. —Apple Tart. 5275. Peel, core, and quarter eight or ten russet apples or lerbon pippins ; lay them :blosely in a dish, adding lemon-juice if the apples are not very sharp, and lemon-peel and ^sugar. Some cooks put in two or three cloves, others quince marmalade ; but as the Iflavouring ingredients are not always liked, they are better omitted. Cover the dish with putf paste, and bake an hour and a quarter. 5276. Cranberry tart. — Take and wash a quart of cranberries in several waters; put Ithem into a baking-dish with the juice of half a lemon and a quarter of a pound of moist lor powdered lump sugar. Cover them with puif paste, and bake three quarters of an hour. FFive minutes before it is quite done, ice it (see "Icing") and return it to the oven. 5277. Rhubarb tart. — If the rhubarb have a green spotted surface, it is a kind that may ^be cut up without peeling ; if the red sort, the peel must be torn oiF before it is cut up in ?pieces of an inch in length. Fill a dish with these, adding sugar and lemon-peel, and, lafter covering it with a puff or short paste, bake it for three quarters of an hour. 5278. Jcing for fruit tarts. — Beat up to a froth the white of two eggs, and when the tart •is nearly baked, with a paste-brush cover the crust with some of the white, and sprinkle ■aver it some finely powdered lump sugar; wash the brush, and splash the sugar very ;gently with water till it is dissolved. Put the tart again into the oven for five minutes ilonger. SuBSECT. 3. — Cheese-cakes. 5279. Curd chee.ic-cake.—Incorporate a quart of curd with half a pound of butter in a s3oft state, half a dozen macaroons, three yolks, and the white of one egg. Sweeten it •sufiiciently, and put in a pinch of salt and some grated lemon-peel. When all these are well t>heaten together, in a mortar, sheet some tartlet moulds with piifF paste, put some of the iimixture into each, and bake them quickly. If you please, some currants and candied orange- ipeel may be added. Some are partial to the flavour of noyeau. These puddings may t-be either boiled or baked ; when intended for the latter, they are improved by the addition 1 of a little oiled butter. Some add perfumes, as rose or orange flower waters. 5280 Lemon cheese-cakes Grate the rind of three and the juice of two lemons; mix ilthem with three sponge biscuits, six ounces of fresh butter, four of powdered sugar ; :iadd some pounded cinnamon and nutmeg, and mix the whole well together with three "well-beaten eggs and aglass of cream. Sheet the pattypans with puff paste (see " Pastrj'") aand fill them with the mixture, laying on the surface of each cheese-cake thin shreds of fcandied peel. 5281. Orange cheese-cahes. — Orange cheese-cakes are made in the same way, orange juice and rind being fiemployed instead of lemon. 5282. Almond checsr-cakes— Blanch, dry, and pound with rose or or.inge flower water very fine, six ounces f'Dfjiwc/ almonds, and half an ounce of bitter ; reduce to a cream with a spoon half a pound of butter, and Mnix the .almonds with it, adding six ounces of powdered sugar, some grated lemou-peel, a quarter of a pint of rr^ream, and four be.aten eggs. Fill the patty pans, sheeted with puff paste, and bake in a quick oven for half >;in hour ; put candied peel on the tops of each cheese-cake. 5283. Mince meat.— Take two pounds of beef suet finely chopped and picked free from (••strings, two pounds of apples peeled and chopped small, two pounds of raisins stoned and chopped, two pounds of currants washed and thoroughly cleaned; one pound of good moist ■sugar ; boil three lemons, and after pounding the rinds small, add them and the juice to ■the other ingredients; chop small half a pound of candied citron and lemon-peel, and 'Work all these ingredients together with two wine glasses of French brandy and a little ■salt. Put them into a covered jar, which place in a cool spot, and the mince meat will ►keep for several weeks. Keep at the top of the jar some unchopped candied peel, and add a slice to each mince pie, when any are being made. Some prefer pufl' paste, Others a short crust, for sheeting the pans. 3 N