ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. .p. III. 105 . thod employed for this comparison has been to ascertain the quantities of ice that could smelted by a pound of fuel, which is thus stated : One pound of Melts of ice Carburetted hydrogen - - 85 lbs. Olive oil - - - 120 Wax ... -110 Tallow - - - 105 Sulphur - - - 25 (One pound of Melts of ice ■ood coal - - .90 lbs. ^kke - ■ - 84 Liarcoal of wood - - 95 ood - - - 32 aat - - - 19 i /drogen gas - - 370 IThe heating effects of fuel will likewise depend very much upon the apparatus em- «yed, the subject to be acted upon, and the quality of the fuel. Thus, if a boiler is to heated, the fuel that gives out flame will be most effectual by striking upon the iittom of the boiler ; whereas, in heating apartments by open fires, it is the steady radiant at that we depend upon, and not the flame: therefore, strong Newcastle coal, when oDught to a red heat, and still more, coke, will be more effectual than Staffordshire coal, ibt blazes but which is soon obscured by ashes; and both these will warm more effectually lan wood that has ceased to blaze. 446 5. Every kind of fuel should be kept as dry as possible. 'When improperly exposed to ei weather, or put into damp places, a great deal of its material when burning is em- Li-jyed in converting the water it contains into vapour, which escapes up the chimney, rrrying with it the heat that was necessary for its conversion, and which might have ven employed in giving warmth where it was wanted. Count Rumford found that >seasoned wood contained about one third of its weight of water, and consequently pro- ceed much less effect in boiling water than the same quantity of dry wood. The same iimark will apply to coals ; but there are other reasons why it is' sometimes useful to nmp small coal slightly. When perfectly dry, they are apt to run to waste among the tihes. A little dampness cause? the dust of caking coals to adhere together till the heat .<6es it into a mass, which is then broken up by the poker. Sect. X. SPONTANEOUS COMBUSTION. J466. Seriojts accidents, and often considerable conflagrations, have frequently been occa- Dned by substances taking fire of themselves; and it is proper to know what materials ve liable to spontaneous inflammation. The following are examples : 4467. Sulphur and iron flings moistened and buried in the ground, or laid in a heap, will ifflame in a few days. i468. Iron pyrites, composed of sulphur and iron, found naturally in coals, when laid in hheap in the coal mines, often takes fire, and burns for a long-time, and ships freighted inth coal have been set fire to from the coals containing too much of this substance. 4469. Chips of wood, impregnated with turpentine, if laid together in a heap, will burst itito a flame in twenty or thirty hours. This has been observed in manufactories of oil of irrpentine, when the chips, which the raw turpentine brought from America contains, Hve been separated by straining. -470. The mixture used at theatres for a red light has ignited spontaneously when a paper inrcel containing a pound of it was laid by on a shelf. This powder consists of nitrate of rrontium, sulphur, chlorate of potash, sulphuret of antimony, and a little lamp black. ■ 471. Peat, when charred, is very apt to take fire of itself. ■ 472. Wool that is much oiled, and laid by in quantities, has been known to inflame iciontaneously. • 473. Tow with lamp Mack and oil is extremely liable to spontaneous Inflammation, "loth these last have frequently been the cause of places where they were kept being •fct fire to, without the cause having been at first suspected.