:!JiAP, VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. 47 f: the same ■width, the floor is straight joint; of this kind are all the best floors, in which lae boards are secured in such a manner that the heads of the nails are not seen : the ooards are then fixed down by means of dowells or pegs on one edge of the boards going mto holes in the opposite edge, while these edges are fixed to the joists by having the iiih driven in slant ways. The whole of the floor can then be planed off together. 169. In marquetry, ov parquetry, an ornamental kind of wood flooring, small pieces of ood of various kinds were cut in certain patterns, and fixed down upon the flooring oards : the shape of the pieces were seldom more than rectangular, laid in various ways ; nad the wood was usually oak. It was a kind of mosaic in wood. Specimens of it may f. ill be seen in ancient mansions. 170. Mosaic, or tesselated pavements, are not frequently executed among us in ordinary oouses, though they were much in fashion among the Romans; beautiful examples of laem have been dug up in the ruins of their villas: tesselated pavements were likewise xtecuted in Gothic buildings in this country some centuries ago. Our custom of covering IIJ our floors with carpets or mats render these not very necessary. The pavements of aalls are sometimes decorated with black and white marble, being laid in squares, or ictagons; but, in general, Portland or other stones capable of being worked smooth are laflScient. 171. Tessera for pavements are now made by several manufacturers, and they appear to ee coming into fashion in public buildings and large mansions. Messrs. Chamberlain and CO. of the porcelain works, Worcester, make strong earthenwai'e tiles, either plain red, eellow, or decorated with various coloured patterns in imitation of old English tiles, poecimens of which remain in Westminster Abbey and other ancient Gothic buildings, oome are now executing for the new Houses of Parliament. They are generally glazed, out may be had also unglazed. Tesserae for mosaic pavements of a variety of patterns, ooth antique and old English, are likewise manufactured by Wyatt and Parker. Another aariety is made by Singer, of Vauxhall, and has been used in the Reform club-house. 172. Floors are likewise formed luith bricks and tiles. Brick paving is done either with lae bricks flat or on edge, and laid in sand, or in mortar. Brick on edge paving in sand i usually laid in beer and coal cellars, pantries, dairies, or stables; as the open joints Uow the fluids to sink through and escapes Bricks laid in mortar make a sound paving ; I paving of tiles is neater, but not so durable as one of brick on edge. These kinds of aiving are frequently used in farm-houses and cottages : floors in such places are likewise laade of various cements. SuBSECT. 3 Staircase. 173. When the staircase is of stone, Portland stone is the laaterial most commonly used in London : where Bath stone I plentifiil, it is sometimes used, but it is too soft. Wheh a flood is used, oak is preferable, and was formerly much em- Icoyed; but in good ordinary houses, yellow deal sufiBces, as lae stairs are generally carpeted. Putting up a staircase Kell, and particularly the hand-rail, is one of the most difficult aarts of the joiner's business, and the most skilful hands are t iquired for it. The size of the steps is calculated by the ffchitect, who has to consider the height of the stories, and bee space in his ground plan; but he cannot depart much lom the customary height and tread of steps. 174. A dog-leyged staircase is one where there is no well Me, a, b,fig. 47., and the return of the stair is efl'ected by \inders fixed to a newel. This kind of stair is incon- venient, the width of the steps being diminished to no- I ing close to the newel: it is, of course, limited to inferior Duses, attic stories, &c. In the belter kind of staircases I'-.ere are landings at half the height of the story c d; and / I plans it is customary to mark the commencement of / -.j^ ke flight steps with lines, while the last half is shown by ^ Z:^ f ■otted hues. A geometrical staircase, ef is one where the xyy/l I I I { I T leps wind round an open newel or, as it is called, a well \// 'lom top to bottom. This is used in cases where the light \7 I I I I I Ll_ ' the staircase is admitted only from a skylight. These fig.n. aay be circular or elliptical on the plan. The staircase is a very important part of a house • ! should be conveniently situated, well lighted, and of easy ascent. '