nil FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES WITH PERCHES. 4 B 4 Chap. III. passing over the springs so as to be tightened by winding round a jack placed at the bottom. This is a great improvement on the S springs, fig. 855., used not many years back, and -which could not, from their form, be so tightened. The body is attached to the braces by curved irons called body loops. Some coaches have the coachman's seat covered by a rich hammer cloth, supported upon the horn of the loop by means of branch iron work, and others have a Salisbury boot like that of the chariot, fig. 856. The platform behind for the footmen is best suspended from the body, or from the C springs, which, in that case, ought to be very strong ; when placed merely upon the carriage, the jarring is intolerable. Somec caches, besides the C springs, have also under-springs, as in the chariot, 856., and these are by much the easiest. When there are under-springs, the footman's plat- form is generally placed upon them, though the jarring is still very considerable. Coaches have the great advantage of affording the most comfortable accommodation to a family in all weathers, but having no convenient look out in front, they are not so agreeable on some occasions as other vehicles which have been substituted for them ; they are, however, upon the whole, the most complete of all carriages. 6626. Crane-necked carriages are so called from a particular form of perch, which obviates the difficulty which we have dwelt upon respecting the limit in turning the fore-wheels. The crane neck is formed by removing the perch of wood, and substituting two long bars of iron arched upwards in front, as in the phaeton, S.'iS.; somewhat in form of the neck of a crane, by which means the fore-wheels can pass underneath in turning. This answers the desired end, and adds much to the strength of the vehicle, but likewise much to its weight. This contrivance is not modern; and as coaches were formerly kept only by the rich, who could afford to keep abundance of horses, the difficulty of draught was not regarded as of much consequence ; at present, it is almost entirely confined to state equipages, all of which are so built, on account of its elegance and convenience in turning: but the description of these does not come within our limits. 6627. Travelling coaches are now seldom used, lighter vehicles being found more convenient. When an ordinary coach is used for travelling, it is fitted up in a particular manner. The hammer-cloth is taken off, and instead of the Salisbury boot, another of a square form is introduced capable of holding trunks. It may be interesting to notice, that formerly, instead of the present boot made of boards covered with leather, one made simply of stiff leather was made to hold the luggage, called a budget, whence the term so well known to politicians. A similar one is placed behind, or a seat for servants, sup- ported on the springs. Two flat boxes covered with leather, called imperials, are some- times placed upon the roof of the body, and even a contrivance beneath the body called a well. Venetian blinds are added to the windows ; a chain and drag staff are added for going down hill, and a tool budget should never be omitted. 6628. 77ie landau is a coach having the upper part to throw open occasionally in fine weather. This is effected by means of jointed metal levers, called irons, on the upper quarters, as in th&pilentum landau,_^^. 871. When the carriage is required to be open, the two quarters separate in a joint in the top, and each folds back. These carriages, which are hung and fitted up in every respect like a coach, are extremely convenient, as they answer the purpose of an open and close carriage, without the expense of keeping two, and accommodate many persons without the care of driving, as in other open carriages. The bodies not being assisted by the connecting strength of the upper framing, it becomes necessary to make the lower parts of stronger materials, and even to have much iron work, which somewhat increases the weight; also the upper quarters with the joints are obliged to be covered with the leather, which, though well blacked, has not the same good appearance as that of coaches with fixed roofs, and after much use looks indifferently. It appears, nevertheless, to be a kind of carriage, upon the whole, well suited to our uncertain climate, and if built light without a perch, and with elliptic springs only, is found extremely useful. They are sometimes made narrow, to be drawn by one horse. 6629. The landaulet is a chariot having the head to open, in the same manner as the landau ; there is of course only one seat. The same observations may apply to it as to the latter carriage. 6630. The barouche is constructed like the lower part of a coach with a perch and two seats in the body and hung on C springs; but it is essentially an open carriage, having no roof, and only sometimes a jointed head to put occasionally on the hinder part. The driver's seat is in front, and there is seldom a place behind for the footman, who sits on the box with the driver. It was formerly a very fashionable carriage, and is extremely agreeable in fine weather, and convenient for a party ; but it is not calculated for bad weather. The head may be closed in by a glass frame like the britzschka, but this is