85 biAp. ir. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. bottom of the coil, c, for there is no boiler. In order to allow room for the expansion of the water on being heated, ■which might otherwise oc- casion the bursting of the pipes, a tube, d, is fixed at top, which holds about one-twelfth as much water as the whole pipe ; into this the water finds its way on expanding. This hot-water apparatus, on account of the smallness of the pipes, and their flexibility, can be introduced into apartments without much difiiculty: it may be led round the room near the floor, or made into a coil in the chimney, the flue being first stopped, or in any other convenient situation : and the heat may be raised to any extent that the pipes will bear. But although this ingenious invention can be used in places where the former method with larger pipes could not be introduced, nor steam- pipes either, without much trouble, yet it is liable to some defects, which must be noticed. One, that is very obvious, is the danger of accidents, by the bursting of pipes containing water so intensely heated ; although the pipes may be manufactured upon an excellent principle, and proved before they are used, yet we cannot, without a caution, recommend a plan in which safety depends so much upon the care Pig- 74. jjj, jjjg gj^-jj workmen. It is also said that, in consequence of the tense heat of these pipes, rooms heated by them have, to a certain degree, the same sagreeable and unwholesome smell which results from the use of cockles or iron roves in general, when much heated. Another objection, stated by Mr. Hood, appears be the inequality of temperature in buildings heated by these pipes, in consequence their being much hotter in one part than in another, a difference sometimes amounting more than 100°, varying according to the length of the pipe, which may extend above WOO feet. From the smallness of the pipe, also, this apparatus cools so rapidly when the roe slackens, that the heat of the building will be materially affected even by a very little li teration in the strength of the fire. From all these circumstances, this mode of heating 1 ill not afford the same steadiness of temperature as hot water with large pipes, and still ■sss than that obtained by the use of steam. Notwithstanding, however, these serious ob- ?octions to applying Mr. Perkins's method generally to ordinary dwellings, it has been em- Iiloyed in several public buildings, and, we understand, with considerable success. There iree certain situations, indeed, where it would be extremely difficult to employ any other Method. It has, for instance, been found very serviceable in the Register Ofiice, Edinburgh, li here records of great value are kept: where of course safety from fire is eminently im- portant ; and where no method of warming the building had been contrived on its erec- i'lon. The museum in Lincoln's Inn Fields, left to the public by the late Mr. Soane, is iiiientioned as another instance. Both the steam and hot water system of the ordinary kind, -with large pipes, are safe as ^) risk from fire ; but it has been stated lately, that Perkins's method is not free from -langer, since pipes heated to so great a degree are capable of setting fire to many sub- teances : care should therefore be taken that the pipes do not come into contact with any Materials that are inflammable. It is evident that the same difficulties of ventilation must attend this as all other stoves; nnd this consideration, were there no other, must also determine in what place it can be ntroduced with propriety in a domestic edifice. The idea is undoubtedly ingenious ; but ;; cannot for a moment be supposed that it ought to supersede open fires for our ordinary ppartments, as some have been sanguine enough to imagine. Sect. VL WARMING BY HOT AIR. 370. Warming by hot air is first heating a quantity of air to a considerable degree, and hhen bringing it into the apartments through pipes or other apertures. This has been effected in various ways. 371. The fir.ll method employed was a French invention, and accomplished by causing air 10 circulate and get heated behind the iron back of the fire, and then introducing it through I register. 372. Another method cmrnintfi in making an iron tube pass through the fire, the mouth oeitig in the open air: the air entering the tube is heated by the fire, and discharges hot iiir into the room. Likewise chambers are filled with air heated by iron or brick stoves j and from these reservoirs, the various apartments are supplied by means of pipes. In all these methods of warming apartments, the air has generally been heated too much for salubrity ; and in most of them it has been rendered very unwholesome; added to which the apparatus is always complicated and expensive. It is to be observed that the first two of the above methods act only partially, being intended only to assist an open fire, and thoy G 3