1139 MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. iChai'. II. 4 D 2 :and to ladies. When a horse is tired by trotting a great distance, it may be a great relief • to finish the journey by walking. The greatest speed in the walk of a horse is about six tiuiiles an hoiu% but five is the common pace. 6762. Trotting is either slow or quick. It is exceedingly difficult to mark the action of • the horses' legs in trotting. The feet are lifted diagonally in the moderate trot; in the : running trot, which is a rough pace, all the feet are in the air nearly at the same time. iThe speed of a horse in trotting may be improved by training, and it is of great import- ance in light carriages. Twelve miles an hour is reckoned a moderately quick trot; and : fourteen miles in harness is good trotting. Eight or nine miles an hour is usual. This !;must of course vary with the description of work performed. The carriage of the horses' : head is to be marked, both for grace and safety ; it should neither be. held too high nor too low ; and there is sometimes a fault in his striking the hind with the four foot. 6763. Of the gallop there are three varieties, that of full speed, the hand gallop, and the icanter; the gallop at full speed is always preceded by the slower one, and at last is a ^succession of leaps. The greatest speed in galloping at the races has been a mile a ::minute. 6764. The canter is not a natural pace but an artificial one, usually taught to ladies' hhorses, oa account of the greater ease in the motion to the rider. In it all the legs are anever in the air together, one of them always touching the ground. 6765. Safety in horses is essential; those which are apt to stumble are on all accounts to :~be rejected. Some horses that are safe in one pace will stumble in another: much 'depends upon good training, but much also on the rider. Horses that have been accus- itomed to mountainous countries and rough roads are generally safer and less liable to ^stumble than others. Some horses are apt to strike the ground too much with the toe, in- -stead of lifting their feet cleanly over obstacles, and should the fore part of their shoe i touch a small stone, they may stumble and even fall. In purchasing a horse, it is proper, •therefore, to examine the front of their shoes and see if they indicate any marks of ■■" tripping." 6766. To decide respecting the action of a saddle horse, the kind of work for which he is wanted must be considered. If it is for a lady the canter is the most important pace ; if : for the road, then the trot is of most consequence; few excel in all the paces. What is called grand action in horses is not desirable in those for the saddle, nor in t those used for light carriages, or where speed is required, but is requisite only in horses ; for state carriages, and perhaps for the coach, the landau, the barouche, or cabriolet. 6767. The colours of horses are laid much stress on by many persons, and long expe- rrience has shown that certain tints are usually accompanied by certain qualities of person or disposition. As a general rule, dark-coloured horses are the best, but black form an • exception as they are extremely variable. Light shades appear unfavourable to strength and durability. Ba)/ is a prevailing tint, and is generally admired; it admits of many ■shades ; there are bright bays, dark and dappled bays ; the latter is esteemed for beauty; brown bay is valued for service, and consists of bay and black in variable proportions : all bays have black manes and tails. Brown horses are highly prized; the dark varieties i-have sometimes beautiful tan markings. Chesmit is also a good colour, but is said to be less depended upon than some others. The sorrel is a variety of the chesnut but not a ;.favourite one. ^■Dun is a colour that has several varieties, the mane and tail sometimes 1 lighter and sometimes darker than the body, with frequently a black list along the back : •'they appear to be of all qualities. White horses are not in much estimation, neither is it a very common colour for young horses ; but some become white through age. Black is ia very usual colour, and seems to be an ouiginal tint. The tempers of black horses vary extremely, being either sluggish or too fiery. It is seldom that a horse entirely black is •seen ; there is usually some spot of white in the forehead, or a few white hairs on the ' breast. The roan is a mixture with white hairs. Grey horses are of many shades, com- pounded of black and white ; there are the iron greys and dappled greys. Various other ■Jiames for mixtures are enumerated, scarcely possible to define. Sect. IV. FOOD OF THE HORSE. 6768. Tlie substances on which the horse is capable of subsisting, and on which he is actually fed in various parts of the world, are more various than might be generally sup- posed. Among these are enumerated, not only herbage green and dried, with grain and pulse, but roots, fruits, leaves, and twigs of many trees, reed flags, and even milk, in Arabia; and in sterile countries animal matters, as dried fish, flesh balls, broth, eggs, &c. ■ But the natural foodrof the horse is of the vegetable kind; and such of our readers as •wish to be intimately acquainted with the chemical nature of vegetable food in general, •we would recommend to study our Chapter on this subject, where we have treated at