206 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. Birmingham is the cliief place in England for the manufacture of articles of bronze. But the most extensive manufactory of this kind is in Paris, where there are 2.-50 liouses engaged exclusively in it. There, every description of chandelier, candelabra, lamps, candlesticks, &c. are made. The number of -workmen is estimated at 5000, to which we may add 1000 gilders, who form a distinct body. The manufacture is estimated to pro- duce annually the sum of about 800,000/., great part of which is exported. At Paris, there are made, every year, 1.-5,000 bronze clocks, 40,000 pairs of candlesticks, 3000 pairs of candelabra, and 100 surlouts de table, which are large ornamental vases for holding flowers, placed in the centre of the table at large dinner parties. These articles of French manufacture display great skill and taste, and many of them are seen in the annual exhi- bition in Paris. 952. Bell metal is a species of bronze, consisting of 78 parts of copper and 22 of tin: some bell founders add zinc and lead; but these metals are prejudicial, and are only added to save expense. The Chinese gongs are made of an alloy of copper and tin, in the pro- portion of 78 of the former to 22 of the latter, according to an analysis by Klaproth. They are forged by the hammer, and tempered. 953. Gun metal consists of 100 parts of copper and 12 of tin, with or without a little brass. • 954. Tutenag, called also white copper, is a Chinese metal, the method of preparing which is not known in this country: but, when analysed, it is found to consist of, in 100 parts, copper 2-02, zinc 1-27, nickel 1-58, iron 0-13. It is extremely sonorous, and not easily tarnished. It appears to be very similar to our German silver. 955. The alloys known among us by the names of German silver, nickel silver, albata, and British plate, consist of zinc, copper, and tin chiefly, but without any silver, though they are spurious imitations of that metal; and as each manufacturer pretends to have some peculiar composition or proportions, it is impossible to state these with accuracy. See some observations on them under " Plate," Chap. XVII. 956. Pewter is a compound metal, or an aUoy of tin, antimony, and lead; but its com- position is not always uniform. There are three kinds of pewter in common use, called plate metal, triple, and ley. Plate metal is said to be formed of 112 parts of tin, 6 or 7 of antimony, and a small portion of brass or copper to harden it; it is the best kind, and used for making dishes. The sort termed triple is used for ale-house pots, and is com- posed of lead and tin, with a little brass. The ley pewter, used for wine and spirit mea- sures, has more lead. Lead being a cheaper metal than tin, it is the interest of the manufacturer to employ as much as he can of the former metal; and, consequently, pewter is apt to contain too much of it. Lead, being a noxious metal, danger was apprehended from its employment in this way; and the French government appointed a commission of some very able chemists to examine the subject. They found that when wine or vinegar is allowed to stand in vessels composed of an alloy of tin and lead in difierent proportions, the tin is first dissolved, whilst the lead is not sensibly acted upon by these liquors, except at the line of contact of the air and the liquor; and no sensible quantity of lead is dissolved even by vinegar, after standing some days in vessels that contained no more than 18 per cent, of lead. Hence it was concluded that, as no noxious effect is produced by the very minute quantity of tin which is dissolved, pewter may be considered as a safe material when it contains about 80 per cent, of tin: and, where vessels are intended merely for measures, a much less proportion of tin may be allowed. But the common pewter of Paris was found to contain no more than 25 to 30 per cent, of tin, and the remainder was lerfd: there is reason to fear that this is also the composition of our common pewter: if so, malt liquor, and parti- cularly porter, always containing more or less acetic acid, cannot fail to dissolve some of the deleterious metal. It has been just stated that vinegar dissolves a very small portion of the lead as well as of the tin, just at the surface of the fluid where the acid is in contact with the metal and the air; and there may thus be occasionally cases where the dissolved lead may pass into our food and drink: for instance, where vinegar is distilled through a pewter worm, traces of lead, as well as of tin, have been discovered in the vinegar. The use of such pewter as contains much lead, for any vessels where food or drink are concerned, should therefore be as much as possible avoided. 957. Britannia metal, or Prince's metal, has lately come much into fashion, and has superseded the employment of ordinary pewter in a great many articles of common use: this alloy is composed of 3^ cwt. of best block tin : 28 lbs. of antimony ; 8 lbs. of copper, and 8 lbs. of brass. It takes a high polish, and does not readily tarnish : when kept pci-fectly bright it has great beauty, far excelling pewter, and approaching in lustre to silver. A quart tea-pot of it costs only a few shillings ; but from attempting to reduce the price so much, the metal is frequently made so thin as to occasion its being bulged or warped by very slight accidents, or even by the heat of the water. It is also employed for candle- sticks, coffee biggins, and measures for liquids. It is not easily acted upon by acids, and