1028 SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOH.ET. Book XIX. BOOK XIX. THE TOILET, AND SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH IT 6096. The ordinary business of the toilet is too well known to require that we should eo into all the details respecting it: nor shall we attempt to unveil all the profound mysteries ot the cosmetic art, by which ahuost miraculous effects are daily promised, but seldom performed. Our object is chiefly to point out some ch-cumstances that concern the pre- servation of health or convenience. 6097. The term toilet is originally French {toilette), and is derived from toik, any thin stuff. It appears to have been first applied to a fine covering of linen, silk, or tapestry, spread over a table in a bed-chamber, or dressing-room, to place the dressing things upon, such as dressing boxes, mirrors, perfumes, combs, pincushions, brushes, razors, &c. Several dressing or toilet tables are described under " Furniture," Book V. 6098. Dressing cases are so infinitely varied, that any description of them, or even enumeration of their varieties, would be an arduous task ; and they can only be judged of by inspection and trial, according to the -wants of each individual. " 6099. One of the chief objects of attraction in the affairs of the toilet is the care of the skin, the keeping of which in a condition to perform its important functions has been shown to be essential to health by numerous medical writers. The principal means by which it is effected is the use of the bath, and frequent ablution ; but as these will be treated of at length in Book XXVI. " On Health and Sickness," we shall refer to that portion of the work. We propose here to give a few hints respecting some subjects usually included under the head of toilet, such as the hair, the teeth, the ear, the eyes, the fingers and toes, cosmetics and perfumes. CHAP. I. MANAGEMENT OF THE HATR. 6100. Fine hair has been, in aU ages, considered as a beautiful ornament, and the proper management of it is well deserving of attention : as this will be assisted somewhat by a knowledge of its structure and mode of growth, we shall first describe these. 6101. Each hair is a hollow tube attached to a root or bulb, which grows in the skin. The shaft of the hair is of a horny substance, but the bulb is furnished with vessels and nerves, as is evident from the pain which is felt in pulling the hair by the roots. When the roots are pulled out the hair does not grow again. Although the hair is tubular, if it has never been cut it is closed at the points, which are sharp, as may be seen in the large hairs that form the whiskers of animals, and from the hair of which camel's hair pencils are made, which becomes useless if the points are cut off. There is probably a circulation of some fluids in hair, although, from its minute structure, this cannot be ascertained ; but it may be inferred from the change that takes place in its colour. It is well known (hat the hair of the human head is almost always lighter and sometimes of a different lint in childhood, than it becomes afterwards ; and as old age advances, it experiences in most people who do not become bald, the remarkable change into grey. The time at which hair turns grey varies remarkably in different persons; and it is frequently accelerated by great anxiety of mind, of which singular instances have been recorded. The turning grey is very different from falling off; the latter appears the consequence of some decay at the roots, whereas they are only the most permanent hairs that ever become grey; the strongest and darkest coloured are the most liable to the change, and are longer iu being shed tlian those which have preserved their colour. Hair when grey appears to be in some degree transparent, and has a remarkable silvery or glistening appearance. The colour of hair is various, but limited within certain boundaries. It varies from very light flaxen to a deep raven black, and goes through the shades of yellow or golden, to reddish and red, auburn or light brown, and dark brown and blackish brown. 6102. The proper manaijemcnt of hair is very simple. It should be kept as clean as possible, by daily brushing and removal of the scurf that forms upon the skin, and occa- sional washing with pure water, which will have no injurious effect on the health, pro- viding the hair is not very long, so as to make drying it difficult. To assist in drying it thoroughly, souce the brush in a very little hair powder, and brush it out again ; after that a little good perfumed pomatum may be brushed in ; too much not only makes the