Chap. III. LINEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. 971 be misled. Some linen is sold free, or nearly so, from this dressing, and such is to be preferred. The kinds of linen for shirting manufactured here are Irish, Scotch, and English, of which the first is reckoned the best. 571.5. Holland, a fine kind of linen imported from the Low Countries, before our manu- facturers had arrived at such perfection, was in great request for wearing apparel; at present very little foreign linen is imported. 5716. Dowlas is a very strong coarse Irish linen cloth, made for shirts. 5717. Drill is a very stout twilled linen, made for summer trowsers. 5718. The linens usually selected for sheeting are, Irish, union Irish, which has a mix- ture of cotton, Lancashire linen, and union Lancashire, Russia, imitation Russia, York- shire, Barnsley, and Scotch sheeting. The widths of these are from \ to The prin- cipal requisites in sheeting are strength of thread and closeness of texture. The strongest coarse sheeting is that of Russia, which may be had of various widths from an ell to two yards and a half. 5719. Unbleached linens are used for various purposes. Brown holland is much used for upholstery. Widths f, 4, and j. It is glazed and of various degrees of fineness ; and there is also a rough brown holland, not glazed. Silesia is a fine brown holland glazed for roller window blinds, of various widths, from 28 to 90 inches. Hessia and Forfar are very coarse linens, used for various purposes, as straining on sofas, &c. 5720. Brown damask is a coarse damask unbleached, used for table-cloths for the nursery, &c. It is reckoned stronger and more durable than what has been bleached. 5721. Linen damask. — This name is given to a twilled linen fabric of a similar struc- ture to the silk fabric of that name. It is very generally used for table-cloths and napkins. In respect to fineness of fabric, and beauty of designs, the French damask long bore the pre-eminence, but it is now surpassed by that of Silesia, some of which are eight j ards long and two wide. Considerable quantities of damask are made in Scotland, par- ticularly at Dumfermline in Fifeshire, and likewise at Lisburn and Ardoyne near Belfast; some superb examples have been executed at these places. Dutch and Italian damasks are also imported. The designs for this fabric are first drawn upon paper, and any patterns can be executed, such as family arms, &c., with the admirable machinery now in use ; although, when the patterns are complicated, the article becomes very expensive. 5722. Diapers are allied to damasks, but of simpler and smaller patterns; they are made for inferior table-cloths, and for napkins, towels, and various domestic purposes. Those distinguished by the name of union, are composed of linen and cotton ; and there are also cotton diapers. 572.3. Dorrock is a coarse linen fabric used for common household wear, nearly resem- bling diaper, and ornamented with squares. It derives its name from the town of Dor- rock, in Scotland, where it was first manufactured for table-cloths. 5724. Huckaback is something similar, but has no beauty to recommend it; it is, how- ever, a most durable and economical linen, and much used for towels. 5725. Tick is a well-known cloth used for bed, bolster, and pillow-cases. Besides the above, there are an infinity of smaller articles made of linen, too well known to require being described in detail, as girths and tapes of various kinds, viz. Manchester, Holland, black tape, pink or red tape, stay tape, &c. 5726. Cambric is an intensely fine and beautiful cloth of flax, first made, it is said, by Baptista at Cambray in the Netherlands, from which it is named Batiste on the Conti- nent. 5727. French cambric, when genuine and of the best kind, is still superior to our ma- nufacture. It possesses a peculiarly beautiful silky appearance, and is imported in boxes of twenty-five pieces, each containing 7^ yards of § or | widths, but are liable to a heavy duty. Much more was formerly used when frills and ruffles were in fashion for shirts. French cambric handkerchiefs are of three widths, |, % and The finest are sometimes fringed. 5728. Irish and Lancashire cambrics sometimes come nearly up to the French in quality; but little of this is made. 5729. What is called Scotch cambric is, in fact, a cloth made of cotton, in imitation of French cambric, which, we stated, is of flax. It is much inferior in retaining its whiteness. Some of the best Scotch cambric handkerchiefs are made of flax intermixed with cotton. 5730. Lawn is also originally of French manufacture; it is thinner and more trans- parent than linen, and comes near to cambric. The thread for it is made so as to be as cylindrical as possible, and it is not pressed so much as calicoes. The Irish is next to the French ; there is also Scotch lawn. 5731. Fine canvas is the coarsest fabric made from flax, common canvas of various degrees of coarseness, and used in furniture, for papering, &c., being made from hemp. 5732. Hemp {Cannabis saliva, Linn.) is a plant, the fibres of which are coarser and stronger than those of flax. Hemp was originally a native of Persiti, but has been na-