220 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. carpets to be introducod into public hotels and lodging houses, from which they are spreading more generally. Near to Brussels there is a manufactory, where every kind of carpet is well imitated, from Persian to Scotch. In America carpets are universally used as in Britain. The best carpets are composed all of dyed wool: some have parts made also of hemp. They are wrought in fanciful patterns, varying in their style according to the place of manufac- ture. 1054. Carpets are of two kinds : that of double fabrics, consisting essentially of two dis- tinct webs woven at the same time, and firmly decussated together by the woof threads. Hence the form of the pattern is the same on the two sides of the cloth, only the colours are reversed, so that what is green on one side becomes perhaps red or black upon the other, and vice versa. The smaller the figures the more frequent the decussations, and the firmer and more durable the fabric. The other kinds have a raised pile on one side like that of velvet. 1055. Turkey and Persian carpets. This excellent manufacture originated in Persia, Hindostan, and Turkey, from whence many were formerly imported into Europe, as they are now occasionally being brought chiefly from Smyrna. They were long imequalled for richness of fabric and pattern, though at present the manufactories on the Continent produce some that are not inferior. These kinds are woven with a soft pile somewhat similar to velvet, and some of the richest of the Persian have floss silk mixed with the wool. The manufacture of Turkey carpet was brought to England in 1750, by two workmen from France, and through the exertions of Mr. Moore, secretary to the Society of Arts, was, after some difficulty, brought to great perfection. These are very frequently used in good dining rooms, being exceedingly warm and durable, but from their great weight are difficult to shake. They are made in one piece, sometimes even eight or ten yards long, and five or more wide. 1056. Brussels carpets are not made in large squares, but in pieces about seven eights wide. The basis is composed of a warp and woof of strong linen thread; worsted threads are also interwoven, which are foi-med into loops, by means of wires; and these form the pattern, the linen threads not being visible on the sm-face. When well made they are very durable, and being at the same time elegant, they are at present much iu request for the good apartments, the kinds mentioned previously being much more expensive. They, however, vary much in quality: the best kind ought to weigh 1^ lb. per yard : but of late they have been manufactured in a slighter manner, and often do not weigh \\ lb. per yard. There is also a Tournay carpet very similar. The names of our carpets do not always denote either the present or original place of manufacture. Our Brussels carpets are made chiefly at Kidderminster. What are called Kidder- minster carpets are mostly made in Scotland and Yorkshire; and it is not known that what we call Venetian carpeting was ever made in Venice. 1057. Wilton carpets difier from the Brussels in this: when the wires upon which the loops are formed are drawn out, the worsted loops are cut through with a sharp knife, and then they form a pile in the manner of plush or velvet. The basis is linen. This manufacture was introduced into this country through the exertions of Lord Pembroke; and they have the advantage of being executed in very beautiful designs. In the Royal Wilton the pile is raised higher than in the common Wilton. 1058. Velvet pile carpets are a kind lately introduced, resembling the texture of the Wilton, but superior in richness of pile and the colours. They- are sold at from ten to fourteen shillings a yard. Nothing can surpass their beauty and rich effect: and they are of English manufacture. 1059. Axminster carpets, so named from the town in Devonshire where they are chiefly manufactured, are woven in one entire piece, and are executed in very beautiful designs, several persons being employed at the same time in working the coloured patterns. The manufactory was established in 1755. The warp and shoot are of strong linen, and numerous small tufts of differently-coloured worsted are fixed under the warp and secured by the shoot. The process of weaving them is tedious : hence the carpets are necessarily expensive, and the whole quantity manufactured is not considerable. 1060. Kidderminster carpels arc composed of two woollen webs, which intersect each other in such a manner as to produce definite figures. In carpets of two piles the warp and woof appear on the same side, and of course on the two sides the colours are reversed, as the warp or woof appears. Three-ply carpets have lately been made, in which the woof shows the figure. These carpets are made in squares, to suit rooms of various sizes. There are various qualities according to the price, which varies from Is. 6rf. to 3s. 6c/. per yard. The cheapest are very loosely woven, having the woof much thinner than the warp ; these soon wear out: the best are closely woven, and have the warp and woof of equal strength. 1061. Common Scotch carpets are among the cheapest kinds, and are often confounded with the Kidderminster. Tke three imperial Scotch carpel, which is coming much into vogue, is reckoned by