Book XXVL PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1240 rheumatism, we shall delay its consideration till we treat of the " Management of the Sick Room." SuBSECT. 11. — Scrofula. 7277. This is one of those diseases which are transmitted hereditarily, that is to say, if one parent, and still more if both parents have scrofulous tendencies, the children will, in all probability, also be liable to them. But, moreover, in the most healthy children, bad food, want of proper exercise and cleanliness, and, in fact, all debilitating causes, produce the same effect as hereditary predisposition. Scrofula shows itself under a variety of forms, as enlarged glands, sores, rickets, diseases of bone, as of spine, shin bone, &c., or it affects the eyes, as has been already described under the title " Scrofulous Inflammation of the Eyes." Certain diseases are more common in scrofulous children, as water on the brain (lii/drocephulus ucutics), and the disease termed " (cibes mesciikrica," and chronic inflammation of the membrane lining the bowels (chronic peritonitis). All these diseases are of a serious nature, and demand particular treatment; they have this in common, how- ever, that, springing from one common cause, the fundamental principle of treatment is the same, viz. to give strength to the body : but this general principle is modified by others, as, for instance, in scrofulous disease of the spine, which produces a projection backwards of one or more of the bones of the spine, rest and couQter-irritation are needful, and in chronic peritonitis, leech'es, &c., are necessary. To take one of the common scrofulous diseases, ric/iets ; in this case the bones are bent and distorted, the ends enlarged, the breast pigeon-shaped, the spine curved, and the helly enlarged — and this state of things has, in all probability, been the consequence of neglect, bad food, and deficiency of exercise. This disease is often very tractable by regulating the bowels by alteratives, by nutritious food and tonics cautiously given, and, among other tonics, nothing is better than sea-side bathing, and by regular exercise the health improves, the bones get straigliter and more in proportion, activity and strength are regained, and many persons, rickety in their youth, grow up to be very athletic subjects. For some observations on the proper method of nursing rickety children, we refer to Book XXVL, Chap. I. 7278. In another affection, scrofulous ulcers, the same general treatment is necessary, viz. good food, sea bathing, regular exercise, and regulation of bowels. Applications are applied to the sores themselves ; we prefer these to be of a simple kind, believing more good to be effected by attending to the health generally than to the sore itself. 7279. In enlarged scrofulous glands, the same general principles are to be carried out, and, in addition, medicines are used internally and externally, to lessen the bulk of the glands. Iodine, in some form or other, is generally employed; but this must be left to the medical attendant. 7280. It is customarjf to say that scrofula is denoted by certain marks, viz. a light fair complexion, light and glossy hair, a large pupil with a blue iris, a large upper lip, con- siderable intellectual power, &c., but a dark sallow complexion, with long black hair, and a muddy dark eye, are quite as often marks of scrofulous tendency. And it may be fairly stated that a child will possess any or all of the above characters and yet not be scrofulous in the least degree. If a child be born of scrofulous parents, it may, by proper attention, be brought through the perils of childhood, and the predisposition corrected. For this purpose it is usually directed that a wet nurse should be employed, and that the mother should not suckle her infant herself: the child should be sponged all over the body every day with cold or tepid salt and water, according to the season and to the strength of the infant; after this it should be well dried, and friction employed, plenty of exercise should he taken, and the natural cries and movements of the child should be encouraged and not ivpressed ; the sleeping apartment should be lofty and well ventilated; and country air is always desirable, or at least' some time in every year shoidd be spent at the sea- "281. After weaning, the diet should be as nutritious as possible, without overloading the stomach ; .sea-bathing and exercise are as useful or more so than before ; exposure to cold and damp should be avoided ; and in children of forward intellect, the develop- ment of the mind must he rather repressed than forwai'ded, and the contrary in children of dull and heavy minds. Sdbsect. 12.—Consumption. 7282. We propose in this place to describe only the early symptoms of consumption, and the mode of life requisite in one predisposed to it. Under the head " jSIanagement ot the Sick Room," we shall enter more fully into the means emplojed to alford alleviation to those who sufi"er under the more advanced stages of (he disease. Although a know- ledge of the first symptoms of ccmsumptioii is most desirable, as it is- only in an early stage that its formidable progress can be stopped, we feel some dillicully in describing