G37 RECEIPTS FOR MAKING WINES. Chap. IV. •which is most developed in the ripe fruit, and is less perceptible in the immature state. This flavour resides in the skins alone, and therefore some employ the expressed juice only; but it must be observed that the produce is thus rendered nearly tasteless, which, however, is not so bad as an offensive flavour; but a certain proportion of the skins is observed not to injure, but to communicate a flavour that is rather agreeable. 3576. Various proportions of fruit and sugar are given in different receipts; but Dr. Macculloch observes, that the quantity of fruit is usually too small, and the ferment- ation is generally so imperfect, that the wine is left disagreeably sweet. 3577. From the ripe gooseberries having more saccharine matter, sweet and dry wines may be produced; but these are ill-flavoured, particularly if the husk is not carefully excluded; which contains more flavom-ing substance in proportion to its ripeness. Gooseberry wine, properly made, is perfectly durable, as much so as Champagne of corresponding strength, provided equal care be taken in the bottling, cellarage, and other management, all of these being circumstances in which our domestic fabricators are too apt to fail. 3578. Dr. Macculloch's receipt for making gooseberri/ wine " The fruit must be selected before it has shown the least tendency to ripen, but about the time when it has nearly attained its full growth. The par- ticular variety of gooseberry is perhaps indifferent; but it will be advisable to avoid the use of those which in their ripe state have the highest flavour. The green Bath is perhaps among the best. The smallest should be separated by a sieve properly adapted to this purpose, and any unsound or bruised fruit rejected, while the remains of the blossom and the fruit-stalk should be removed by friction or other means. Forty pounds of such fruit are then to be introduced into a tub carefully cleaned, and of the capacity of fifteen or twenty gal- lons, in which it is to be bruised, in successive proportions, by a pressure sufficient to burst the berries, without breaking the seeds or materially compressing the skins. Four gallons of water are then to be poured into the vessel, and the contents are to be carefully stirred and squeezed in the hand until the whole of the juice and pulp are separated from the solid matters. The materials are then to remain at rest from six to twenty- four hours, when they are to be strained through a coarse bag by as much force as can conveniently be applied to them. One gallon of fresh water may afterwards be passed through the rniirc, for the purpose of removing any soluble matter which may have remained behind. Thirty or twenty-five pounds of white sugar are now to be dissolved in the juice thus procured, and the total bulk of the fluid made up with water, to the amount of ten gallons and a half. If I name two quantities, it is because the fruit itself varies in quality, and it depends on the operator to distinguish. The old receipts allow forty pounds, of which the consequence is, invariably, a sweet wine, while it fails of being brisk in nine out of ten cases. And the smaller proportion here given will most frequently insure a brisk wine, if the operator will but attend to the progress of the fermentation, and the treatment as formerly described. The liquor thus obtained is the artificial must which is equivalent tf» the juice of the grape, that is, made to resemble it .is nearly as possible. It is now to be introduced into a tub of sufficient capacity, over which a blanket or similar substance, covered by a bo.ird, is to be thrown, the vessel being placed in a temperature varying from .i5° to C0° of Fahrenheit's thermometer. Here it may remain for twelve or twenty-four hours, according to the symptoms of fermentation which it may show, and from this tub it is to be drawn ofTinto the cask in which it is to ferment. When in the cask it must be filled nearly to the bung-hole, that the scum which arises may be thrown out. As the fermentation proceeds, and the bulk of the liquor in the cask diminishes, the superfluous portion of must, which was made for this express purpose, must be poured in, so as to keep the liquor still near the bung-hole. When the fermentation becomes a little more languid, as may be known by a diminution of the hissing noise, the bung is to be driven in, and a hole bored by its side, into which a wooden peg, called the spile, is to be fitted. After a few days this peg is to be loosened, that, if any material quantity of air has been generated, it may have vent. The same trial must be made after successive interv als, and when there appears no longer any danger of extensive expansion, the spile may be permanently tightened. " The wine thus made must remain over the winter m a cool cellar, as it is no longer necessary to provoke the fermenting process. If the operator is not inclined to bestow any further labour or expense on it, it may be examined in some clear and cold day towards the end of February or beginning of IVIarch, when, if fine, as it will sometimes be, it may be bottled without further precautions. To ensure its fineness, however, it is a better practice to decant it, towards the end of December, into a fresh cask, so as to clear it from the first lees. At this time, also, the operator will be able to determine whether it is not too sweet for his views. In this case, instead of decanting it, he will stir up the lees so as to renew the fermenting process, taking care also to increase the temperature at the same time. At whatever time the wine has been decanted, it is to be fined, in the usual way, with isinglass. Sometimes it is found expedient to decant it a second time into a fresh cask, and ag.iin to repeat the operation of fining. All these removals should be made in clear, dry, and, if possible, cold weather. In any case it must be bottled during the month of March. The wines thus produced will generally be brisk, and similar in its qualities (flavour excepted) to the wines of Champagne, with the strength of the best Sillery, if the larger proportions of sugar have been used, but resembling the inferior kmds with the smaller allowance. Inattention, or circumstances which cannot always be controlled, will sometimes cause it to be sweet and still, at other times, to be dry. In the former case it may be manufac- tured the following seiison, by adding to it that proportion of juice from fresh fruit which the operator's judg- ment may dictate, and renewing the fermentation and subsequent treatment as before. In the latter case, as Its briskness can never be restored, it must be treated as dry wine by decanting into a sulphured cask, when it must be fined and bottled in the usual manner. Such dry wines are occasionally disagreeable tp the taste years'^'' Of second year, but are much improved by keeping; nor ought they to be drunk under five or six 3579. On comparing this receipt with others, it may be proper to remark, that white sugar is recommended, whereas some use raw sugar, which is much inferior. Here the fermentation is performed in the cask ; others ferment in an open tub for several days, thus losing much carbonic acid, skimming off the yeast as it forms : they then put the liquor into a cask, where the fermentation is renewed, the yeast which runs out at the bung-hole being cleared away as it rises. When this fermentation has ceased, they add brandy and sometimes honey, a practice which is condemned by Dr. Macculloch. 3580. Mr. Donovan's process for making wine from ripe gooseberries " Althougli tho fruit should have been rod, the wme will not be so ; its tint will be a ficsh colour, for the red colouring matter is precipitated during the process. The wine will not be quite so good as that from unripe fruit, at least it will require i far longer time to ameliorate to the same degree of goodness. Ten gallons of gooseberries are to be bruised m a tub, and left so lor twenty-four hours. The pulp thus prepared is to he introduced, either at once or In successive portions, into a hair cloth or canvas bag, and submitted to pressure. The matter remaininir in the bag IS to be returned into the tub, and live gallons of tolerably hot water are to be pourod on- the wholo 18 to be well mixed up. After thus remaining in the tub well covered lor about twelve hours.tlie'matter is to