58G BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. that, unfortunately, they can scarcely be detected even by the chemist, who has often no means ot distinguishing them, when put into malt liquor, from what belongs to the hop The bare possibility of such practices furnishes a strong argument in favour of individuals brew- ing their own ale and beer, by which alone they can ensure a wholesome beverage. To such a height had the evil arisen, before it became a subject of parliamentary investigation that the providing various articles for the purpose of adulterating beer had become a distinct trade, under the title of brewers' druygist. At present, we had hoped, this race had become extinct, but we are informed that it is still a common practice for certain persons to travel through the country to dispose of drugs to brewers and publicans. This prohibition of certain articles, however, does not extend to those who brew for their own consumption only, and not for sale; these are at liberty to employ any materials they choose. It is very proper therefore to understand the nature of the various substances which have been, and which still are, probably, employed on occasion, both to put persons on their guard, and to destroy prejudices. Such of these prohibited substances as are harmless may be- come very proper subjects of experiment with the domestic brewer, who may be desirous of making an improved beverage. 3308. We Tnay divide these^ingredients into, 1. those which were employed to commu- nicate a bitter or other desirable taste to beer, in order to qualify the natural sweetness of the malt ; 2. those which were added for the purpose of increasing the intoxicating properties of the liquor ; 3. those intended to correct acidity j 4. those used in fining; 5. substances used for colouring. 3309. It was a very ancient practice to infuse, in leverages fermented from grain, certain bitter and aromatic herbs, partly for their flavour, and partly from their supposed medicinal properties ; and thus we read of spiced and herb ales. Many of these materials were of a bitter nature, which was found useful to correct the luscious sweetness of the malt, and such were found also in general to make the liquor keep longer. Hence it has been generally supposed that this preserving property was owing to the bitter principle ; this, however, as we have already observed, does not appear to be evident. • 3310. The bitter of different plants is not uniformly the same kind of substance; all plants do not contain the astringent principle which coagulates the mucilage of wort, which is the part most liable to become sour. Such vegetables as possess both the bitter and astringent prin- ciples are peculiarly fitted for making beer; but none of them are found to be superior, or even equal to the hop. Some of them, however, are tolerable substitutes, and are employed in various places. T/ie common box {Buxus sempervirens) is much used in all the beer brewed in Paris at the present time, as has been lately stated by M. du Petit Thouars in a communication to the Philomatic Society. Box-wood contains a powerful sudorific principle, with a bitter taste, which has lately been separated, and is known by the name of Buxiana; (Bull. Univ.) In some parts of France, as well .as in Germany, the ton of the common broovi is employed ; and this, as well as heathy has been used from time immemorial in Norway. Sweden, and the north of Scotland. All these possess the astringent principle. In England, mugutort and worm- wood, though less proper as preservatives, being chiefly bitters only, have been used formerly. It is said that the foreign bitter, quassia, and likewise gentian, are employed at present in the porter breweries. Quassia is the wood of a plant that grows in the West Indies ; and the decoction is much used in medicine as a useful tonic. The active principle is intensely bitter, and is called quassina. Gentian is the root of the Gentinnca lulea, a plant u hich grows very abundantly in the Alps, Pyrenees, atid Apennines. The bitter extracted from them is intense, and proves an excellent tonic, being found particularly applicable in such diseases as require the combination of bitters and chalybeates, as in cases of direct debility. It is in no way poisonous, but it cont.ains a saccharine principle, which causes it to ferment rapidly and spoil; therefore it does not contribute to the preservation of beer, though it gives it bitterness ; and it is a mistake to suppose that it is a good substitute for hops. Calamus aromalicus is a plant of a spicy bitter taste, formerly used in aromatic tinctures, for medicinal purposes, and wliich has been employed to supersede hops ; it grows in this country, and is collected for the use of brewers and distillers. Wormwood and hureliound are likewise used, it Is said, to diminish the quantity of hops. Catechu, absurdly called Terra Japonica, has been used with success by some brewers for the purpose of more eflectually precipitating mucilaginous matter in beer, which it does from containing a powerfully bitter and astringent principle. It is an Innocent substance employed in medicine as a tonic, and is an extract prepared in India from a plant called Acacia Catechu ; it is there chewed with the betel nut. Aloes are said to have also been used ; but they arc very improper, being powerfully cathartic. 3311.- But the most objectionable of the substances used in adulterating malt liquors are those narcotics intended to increase their intoxicating quality. These are all pernicious, and the following list is truly frightful; it is to be hoped that they are now seldom em- ployed. Nux vomica is the fruit of a tree called Strychntis Nnx Vomica, which grows in the Indian archipelago. The seeds, which cont!\in the active principle, are extremely bitter. They cont.ain a considerable quantity of slri/clmia, tlie most deadly known poison, excejjt prnssic acid. Strychnia is so intense a bitter thai one grain of it dissolved in eighty pounds of water produces a bitter solution. A sixth part of a grain is sufficient to kill a dog. , , St. l^nalivs's lican, or bitter bean, is the seed of an East Indian plant (Slrychnus St. Jgnatit). It contains 19 parts in 1000 of strychnia. Cocculus Indicus is the berry of the Menispcmmm cocctilm ; It contains a bitter intoxicating subsUnce called picnitoxinc, and so violent a poison that ten grains will kill a dog in a very short time. A great deal is brought from India; and no other use is known for it, except in the .adulteration of beer. It is certain that this has been employed in porter from evidence given before a committee of the House of Commons. Grains nf Paradise is another similar substance, said to be Largely employed for the same purpose. Opium 18 a substance tlie narcotic qualities of which ai u well known: it api)ears In the list of intoxicating ingredients