21 C 3 •jHAP. IV. GROUNDS IMMEDIATELY ROUND THE MANSION. titchen is detached, it may be lighted by a skylight, which will give the best light and l.llow most space on the walls. _ • , , The scullery should adjoin the kitchen, and be fitted up with a boiler, plate racks, bhelves, plate drainers, cistern and sinks, a chopping block, and other conveniences well mown.' Where steam is much employed, this is generally the place where the steam boiler, ■rith its necessary apparatus, is placed, from which pipes conduct the steam to the kitchen ;.nd the various parts of the house. It should be paved with flag stones rubbed; and some eecommend giving them one coat of oil to prevent grease from marking. The qualities of a good larder are described under " Preservation of Food," Book X. The other offices necessary to be connected with the house depend so much upon the rvhole establishment, that no rules can be laid down which can be generally applied. The cequisites for a brewhouse are mentioned in Book VIII., " On Brewing;" and those of the fvashhouse and laundry in Book XX. The same may be observed of the dairy, cow-house, lund stables, which are treated of under their several heads. Some information respecting ,. good distribution of offices may be obtained from published plans ; but better ft-om in- fpection of such as receive a character of convenience from intelligent servants, who are itiften able to appreciate their merits, and who should therefore be consulted respecting hhem. GROUISTDS UniEDIATELY ROUND THE MANSION. Although our object in the present work is to confine our chief attention to the Idomestic edifice itself, without treating in detail on the manner of laying out the grounds, ffvhich is the proper business of the landscape gardener, and is seldom attempted by the architect, yet a few remarks upon that part which is in the immediate vicinity of the nmansion would appear necessary. In England, instead of having the cultivated land come up almost to the door of the dlwelling, as is frequently the case in other countries, a certain space round the house is Ltiept as pleasure ground, lawn, or park, and ornamented with trees, shrubs, and flowers ; iiind this space is usually inclosed by a sunk fence instead of a wall, not to shut out the ririew of the country beyond. 67. The approach to the mansion in the old style was often directly in front, sometimes i»y a straight avenue. At present it is thought to be more agreeable and picturesque to ivvoid such foiTnality, and to have the first view of the house on an angle so as to see two *f its sides ; the road being made winding, that it may present greater variety than when joerfectly straight. But admitting numerous defects in the ancient artificial and formal style of gardening, and hhe more just appreciation at present of the beauties of nature, it has been objected by the aate Mr. Hope, that the modern custom of " launching from the threshold of the jymmetric mansion, in the most abrupt manner, into a scene wholly composed of the nnost unsymmetric and desultory forms of mere nature, totally out of character with those iff the mansion, is a deviation from propriety and good taste." In this respect, modern veform (which swept away the avenue, the terrace with its steps, balustrades, statues, lases, and other embellishments of old times, together with the more objectionable cut i/ews, trellises, and other unnaturally formal objects, and substituted mere wild, though ii'icturesque, nature,) has been carried to an extreme. The change, however, we must Observe, gave rise to what is so deservedly admired under the title of the English Garden : out as this can be executed with success only on a scale of considerable magnitude, it is •etter, perhaps, when the space is more limited, to imitate something of the old style still 03 be seen in some parts of the Continent, as in France and Italy, where the regular forms iff architectural and sculptural embellishments are mixed with natural objects in the onmediate vicinity of the dwelling, to preserve a gradation from the regular forms of rrt to those of rural scenery more remote. The style of architecture to which we have iniuded above, denominated the irregular Italian, admits of this variety much better than any other, and that consistently with utility, affording by its terraces, colonadcs and rrcades, dry and sheltered walks, together with greater facility in preserving that eeathess and cleanness near the house which is so desirable; while the beautiful rrnaments of statues, garden buildings, and seats of various kinds, with parterres of kiowers, fountains, bridges, and other decorations, can be introduced witli propriety, lllthough they might seem incongruous and misplaced in ordinary pleasure grounds, (Irhich represent merely a selected portion of natural scenery. But on this subject it is not desirable that we should dictate ; and we tlirow out this hint lather to awaken attention to ideas perhaps too much neglected, notwithstanding they tare been alluded to by persons of great taste and talents ; and the existing desire for eeatness and finish round our dwellings has become so general in England, tlmt probably I; is upon the whole best to leave this to the gradual iuiprovenient which is going on. It should not be supposed, from what wo liave said, that we recommend any of the