GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. 826 Pit'- CSS. Fig. 656. Stove; and the flame and smoke, after circulating round the oven between the double sides, a and b, pass off into the vertical tube, c. This oven may also be used, but not so well, without the German stove, by placing it on the top of the kitchen grate. 4701. Green's portable oven for baking meat or bread. is represented in fig. 656. A cast-iron pan, a, with a cover, but without a bottom, is placed upon a cast-iron shelf, Zi c, in an oven of tin like the American (p. 823.), hav- ing a plate of tin slanting up- wards towards the back from the edge of the bottom, and the top of the oven slanting downwards as usual. The meat or breaiis put into the pan a, and the whole is placed on a stand before a clear fire. The reflection of the heat upwards from the slanting bottom, and downwards from the top, is so considerable, that it penetrates through the cast-ii'on to the meat sufficient to cook it thoroughly. It is essential to observe, that the whole inside of the Dutch oven and of this must be kept perfectly bright, but that the cast-iron pan of this oven and shelf on which it stands must be japanned black, in order that they may absorb the heat; if these were also of bright tin, the same effect ■would not be produced. The shelf is placed upon small brackets on the sides; and in order to take out the pan, a, with the meat, to examine if it be done, a ring, d, with a handle, e, is put below the cast-iron shelf, by which the whole can be lifted up and put back again, if more time be required. For bread, a tin pan receives the dough, and is placed on the shelf and covered by the pan, a. It is said that this oven wUl bake rolls for breakfast; a seven pound loaf in the forenoon ; a pie, meat, or fowl for dinner; cakes for tea j and any thing else for supper. It is durable, and not liable to go out of order; it may be particularly useful to emigrants. 4702. A potato pasly pan, fig. 657-, has been lately inTented. A tin vessel, sliglitly conical, has a cover pierced with holes, which stops an inch and a half below the top; the meat properly seasoned is put into tlie pan beneath this cover. In the centre of the cover is an aperture, into which is screwed a short tube, that can be closed by a stopper which fits looselv. Potatoes mashed with milk in the usual way are heaped up on the cover and round the tube as high as the dotted line, and the whole is put into an oven. The potatoes may serve as a crust to a pie, no other being necessary, and the juice and flavour of tlie meat will ascend partly through the holes and enrich the potatoes. Sect. VI. Fig. 657. APPARATUS FOB BOILING. 4703. Vessels for boiling food in are to be considered with reference to the kind of food required to be cooked, its quantity, the fuel employed, the materials of the vessels, and their durability and price. The largest kind are termed boilers and ketties; the smaller saucepans ; those in Britain are always made of metal. Boilers on a large scale for public establishments are sometimes made of copper, and set in brickwork like washing coppers ; and occasionally they are made square, which form has some advantages in the setting with brickwork, and the economy of fuel. Count Rumford advocated the propriety of having all boilers to fit into closed fire-places ; but this demands that kitchens should be constructed purposely. With respect to the properties of the several materials of which kitchen utensils are made, we refer the reader to Book V. Chap. V. " Materials of Fur- niture." 4704. Boilers so small as to be portable were formerly always suspended over the fire, or made to stand upon feet, or upon a trivet; but the waste of fuel by this mode is immense. Fig. 658. represents a pot or kettle of cast iron made at Carron, and generally used in the north of Scotland for making broth, but in London used chiefly for boiling pitch. Wliere turf is the fuel, it either stands upon the ground, having the burnmg fuel heaped up around it, or is hung up by a chain and hooks that clasp into the ears of the pot; the pots are not tinned, yet are perfectly clean and wholesome. In some places the