RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Chap. I. 897 make in the whole three quarts of liquor ; thicken -with butter and flour, put in the divided scalp, tongue, and forcemeat balls, with two glasses of sherry ; let it simmer for half an hour, and a little before you remove it from the fire season with salt, cayenne pepper, and the juice of a lemon, or the latter may be added at table. Neither this nor the real turtle soup can be classed as a winter soup only. It may be regarded, however, as less acceptable in the warm seasons, than in autumn and winter. (See " Real Turtle Soup. '■) 5107. Gibkt soup.— Stew in two quarts of water three sets of giblets thoroughly cleansed, with some sweet herbs, three large onions, some eschalots, allspice, pepper, and salt; let them continue on the fire until nearly done, then pick out the giblets and divide them into pieces. Let the liquor in which they have been stewed boil slowly with the vegetables about an hour longer, then strain it and remove the fat. To the strained liquor (which will be about a quart) add two quarts of beef sfock, put in the giblets, and let the whole simmer until they are done ; thicken with some butter and floui-, and lastly add the seasoning, which should consist of cayenne pepper, some juice of lemon, and if you approve it, a gill of sherry. Some persons introduce balls of forcemeat, but this soup is sufficiently rich without them. 610S. SoK/j»in;gre. — Put into a gallon stew-pan three ounces of butler; let it remain over a slow fire; while melting, slice four ounces of onion ; cut in small pieces one turnip, one carrot, and a head of celery ; put them into a stew-pan, cover it close, and let them fry till they are of a light brown : this will take about twenty-five minutes. Have ready in a saucepan a pint of peas, with four quarts of water ; when the roots in the stew-pan are quite brown, and the peas come to a boil, put the peas and water to them, setit on the fire, and when it boils skim it and put in a crust of bread about as big as the top of a twopenny loaf, twenty-four berries of allspice, the same of black pepper, and two blades of mace ; cover it close, let it simmer gently for one hour and a half, then set it from the fire for ten minutes ; pour it off very gently so as not to disturb the sediment at the bottom of the stew-pan, into a large basin; let it stand about two hours till it is clear ; while this is doing, shred one large turnip, the red part of a large carrot, three ounces of onions minced, and one large head of celery cut into small bits ; put the turnips and carrots on the fire in cold water, let them boil Dve minutes, then drain them on a sieve ; next pour off the soup clear into the stew-pan, add the roots, put the soup on the fire, and let them simmer gently till the herbs are tender, about thirty or forty minutes ; season it with salt and cayenne, and it is ready. You may add a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup. To make this it requires nearly Jive hours. To fry the herbs requires Iwcnty-Jive minutes, to hoil all together one hour and a half, to settle at least two hours ; when clear and put on the fire again, half an hour more. 5109. Old pea-soup Boil a pint and half of split peas tied up in a cloth until they are quite tender; slice two carrots, three turnips, three large onions, two heads of celery, and a leek; add some pepper ; let these warm, moistened with beef stock until they are thoroughly sol't; rub the peas and stewed vegetables through a tamis ; add to them sufficient beef stock to render the soup of the desired consistence, and let it boil gently for half an hour to incorporate. Stir it frequently, give the necessary seasoning, and serve it with fried bread cut into dice, and siime powdered mint. For a family dish, the liquor in which a leg of pork has been boiled may serve instead of beef stock. ."illO. Celery soup Take six heads of celery, cut them into pieces about two inches long, wash and drain them on a hair sieve, and put them into a gallon of stock. (See " Clear Gravy Stock.") Stew tlie whole together for an hour, season with salt only, and serve. 5111. Vegetable winter soup Peel and slice six potatoes, six onions, six carrots, four turnips; fry these in half a pound of fresh butter ; put them when fried into a soup kettle, and pour on them tour qiuirts of boiling water; toast a crust of bread very brown without burning it, and put it to the soup, with a head of celery cut small, white pepper, and s.ilt. Stew the whole gently for four hours; an anchovy, if added, will improve the flavour. Strain the whole through a tamis, and serve it very hot. SuBSECT. 3.—Spring Soups, White and Vegetable. 5112. White soups have for their basis veal stock instead of beef; and the materials are blended into an uniform fluid resembling cream by means of a leason (a word corrupted by cooks from the French liaison), which means the medium of union or incorporation. 5113. To make the leason. — Mix well together the yolks of four eggs with half a pint of cream and a little salt. Or the leason may be formed of almond paste, prepared in the following manner : blanch some sweet almonds, and when cold pound them in a mortar to an uniform paste. Examples for the employment of both will be now given. 5114. Veal stock. — Cut up a knuckle of veal, of lean ham or gammon, one pound; put these into a stew-pan, with a peeled carrot, turnip, onion, leek, and celery, and add one quart of water; draw these down till nearly done, removing scum, and not allowing it to colour. Then add as much beef broth as will cover the whole, and add game to it if possible, as greatly improving the flavour. When these have been gently boiling for one hour, skim off the fat carefully and strain it. Be careful not to burn it, or allow any of the ingredients to become brown, or it will not answer for white soups or gravies. 5115. Vermicelli .soup. — Make two quarts of white stock hot; put into it half a pound of vermicelli, and simmer the soup for half an hour. If boiled quickly the vermicelli will burst and make the soup thick, which it ought not to be. . 5116. Macaroni .loup. — Hoil a pound of the best macaroni in a pound of good stock; when it becomes tender, take out half of it. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till the macaroni will pulp through a fine sieve. Add a pint of boiling cream, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese j make it hot again, but do not let it boil. Serve with French roll. •'>II7. Chicken soup. —Take a couple of chickens or a large young fowl, divide them down the liack, .as for broiling, and l.iy them in warm w.itcr and a little salt to discharge the blood ; then set them to boll in three 3 M