1018 DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. Book XVIIL CHAR ni. SHOES AND BOOTS. 6012. Historical remarks The antiquity of these articles of dress is, no doubt, as early as the civilisation of mankind. We find that they were worn by the ancient Egyptians : several of their actual shoes, having been preserved to the present day, may be seen in the British Museum ; they are foi-med of matting, the bark of the papyrus, leather, and other materials. Shoes were also used by the Greeks and Romans, though they generally wore sandals, which were merely soles tied on the feet with thongs. It would be endless to mention the variety of shoes that have been in use at different times, and among various nations. The most simple kind of shoes appears to have been merely a piece of leather bound round the foot, and such are still used in remote places in the Highlands of Scot- land, where they are called brogues. In the reign of Edward IV., slioes were pointed at the toes, and had long beaks of four or five inches, turned up and fastened to the knee by a chain. Afterwards we find them quite round at the toes, and ornamented with slashes. In the time of Charles I., the toes were made quite square; and the boots came only half up to the knee, with wide tops turned down. Neither these nor the shoes appear then to have been blacked. Blacking is a very late fashion. 6013. The shoe consists q/'the sole and the upper leather. The part which covers the upper part of the foot is called the vamp, and the part which surrounds the heel forms the two quarters ; these last are sewed together at the heel, and to the vamp at about the middle of the foot. The sole is composed of the real or lower sole, and the welt, the heel, and the inner or upper sole. Boots and shoes, for comfort and durability, should have upper leathers of fine-grained, well-seasoned calf leather, and the soles of stout and well- hammered neais' leather. The seams should be wrought with weU-wased thread, in stitches as fine as the nature of the substance will permit. 6014. Various other kinds of leather are occasionally used for shoes, though none is equal to that of the calf for wear and keeping out the wet; these are from the skins of goats, horses, dogs, and seals ; they are lighter leathers, and sometimes made into dress shoes. Doeskin leather is extremely elastic, but does not keep out the wet unless pre- pared by some waterproof process. For the mode of preparing leather, see " Materials of Furniture," Book V. Chap. V. 6015. There are few parts of our dress in which fashion is so mischievous as in our shoes; instead of forming them, as they should be, to the shape of the human foot, it would seem as if the latter was to be regulated by the taste of the shoemaker. If we wish to know what is the natural form of the foot, we should observe those who have never been accus- tomed to wear shoes, and we shall find, that all the toes, the little ones included, have their full play, and can be moved about like fingers in every direction. The Greeks, who seldom wore shoes, and consequently had their toes unfettered, conceived and executed their fine statues according to this perfect form; the little toes are never bent in under the rest, as is almost universally the case in this country, where the feet are often inclosed in tight shoes from infancy: and where shoes do occur in Greek and Roman sculpture, they are always round at the toes. Pointed shoes are not only extremely injurious to the feet, bringing on corns and other inconveniences, but they are really, however the con- trary may be supposed, in bad taste, although all-powerful fashion has given them an imaginary elegance. 6016. The best method of having boots and shoes ivell fitted, is, after having procured some to fit accurately, to get possession of the lasts on which they were made, and to have in futui'e all new ones made upon them. Some take the trouble of having a plaster cast taken of their foot, and of having a last made from it. The erroneous idea that a very small foot is handsome has crippled many; whereas good taste demands that the foot should have a certain proportion to the rest of the body. The present custom of making shoes to fit each foot, right and left, is much to be commended, and is a great improvement. 6017. Various leathers besides those of calves are used in making thin shoes, particularly for dress, where appearance more than strength is the chief quality. Leathers for this purpose are made of the skins of the horse, dog, seal, &c. Ladies walking shoes are also made of some of these thin leathers. The bright shining varnish now common on dress shoes is called enamelling. GOia. TJic best hoots nnd shoes arc toum made, and to order; but now ft very great quantity of both arc maiiiiractured in tlic cmintrv, and sent up to London, and it Is with these that the sole shops in London are filled. 'I'liese are very mucli cheaper than what arc made in town ; hut they are likewise inferior in all good qualities, and cannot be depended on ; but the convenience of getting them readv made is sometimes an object. Many of these sale shops take orders, but instead of getting the articles made at home, send into the country for thcin. . , , , , , ■ • ■ ■ j fiOlO. On Vic sulijrct qf shoes. Dr. ArnoU remarks : " In a graceful h\im.-in step the heel is alwaj-s raised before the foot li lifted from the ground, as If the foot were part of a whdel rolling forward ; and the weight