Chap. XI. 713 ON COFFEE. percolate througli the cofFeo in b, and passing through the perforated strainer will descend into a filtered infusion. tig. 504. 4077. sion at Parker's patent steam-fountain coffee-maker is a machine by ■which the extract of coffee is prepared in a very easy and expeditious manner. When the extract is made, it may be diluted with boilin"; water to suit the palate ; or hot milk may be used instead of water, making cafe au lait. Fig. 595. represents the external appearance of the appa- ratus ; and fig. 596. is a section to show its construction and mode of action, a is a box of metal to hold the cotFee, having its bottom lid perforated with numerous small holes. From the lower part of this box proceeds a funnel, b, that reaches nearly to the bottom of an outside vessel or cylinder of metal, c d, which is divided into two parts interiorly by a partition, k k; and on the middle of this partition is fixed a tube, into which the neck of the funnel is put, and on which the box with the coffee rests. This exterior vessel is covered by a convex lid, e. The whole is placed over a spirit lamp, /, and is suspended by centres fixed to the up- right arched rod, g, g h. Having taken out the box with its funnel, it is filled with coffee ; and boiling water is poured down the tube in the interior; this will pass into the divi- c d; then the box with the coffee is to be replaced, and the lamp lighted. The steam which is formed forces the water in cd to rise through the tube b, and passes upwards through the perforated bottom of the box into the coffee, forming the extract, which is seen rising as a dark fluid through the perforated lid of a, and flowing over into the upper division, 11. The passage of the water should be permitted to con- tinue till it becomes pale-coloured, and has consequently extracted all the goodness of the coffee, when the lamp should be extinguished, and the lid put on. To get out the extract, the finger is pressed upon the little wooden cup, at a, fig. 595., by which the cylindrical vessel is brought into a horizontal position, and the extract is poured out through the spout. After making the extract, it is best not to drain off the liquid remaining within the rim of the cover, but to let it return into the boiler, which it will do as soon as the lamp is extinguished ; thus any sediment will return with it. The filling of the box is best done by piling up the ground coffee in the centre, and then striking it off with a knife, as is done with corn in a bushel measure. The time for making the extract of colFee, where hot water is used, should never exceed five minutes. If it takes longer, it can arise only from the coffee being ground too finely ; and this not only increases the expenditure of spirits of wine and of time, but likewise injures the quality of the extract. The remedy is to grind the coffee coarser and coarser until the operation, after the water in the boiler boils, lasts only three minutes.