1030 SUBJECTS CONNECTED AVITH THE TOILET. Book XIX. bear's grease has a very disagreeable smell; and this is imitated, it is said, by using the fat of an old goat, or rancid hog's lard. The least evil is that the weak and credulous will throw away their money; but there is the greater danger that they may be seriously injured by compounds made up by persons ignorant of the nature of the ingredients they put together, and totally unfit to be trusted when health is so much concerned. Among the substances said to make hair grow, we find also enumerated bees burned and pounded in oil of roses, decoction of box-wood, juice of cresses, onions, nettles and sage, oil of camo- mile and of Palma Christi, fox and goose grease, burnt butter, honey-water, ashes of rats, moles, hedgehogs, &c. 1—the efficacy of which we may be permitted to consider as extremely problematical. Among the advertisements we have alluded to, are sometimes the most absurd names, as oil of talc, talc being a substance from which no oil whatever can be extracted. Blistering the bald part has been lately announced as a sure method of making hair grow upon it: but until this has been confirmed by competent medical practitioners, we would not advise any one to make the experiment. 6109. For dyeing the hair, various nostrums are sold. In most of these, the composition is kept secret, and therefore they are not safe to use ; but the basis of the black dyes formerly employed consisted of nitrate of silver, or lunar caustic, which, although it does turn the hair black, is at the same time injurious to it if used frequently ; and, besides which, stains also the skin and the fingers. A dye is now used which is said to be free from these defects: it is composed of litharge, or vitrified oxide of lead, with lime well powdered in a mortar, and mixed in water in the proportion of 85 parts by weight of the former to 15 parts of the latter. The manner of using it is the following: — After the hair has been washed with warm water and soap to free it from grease, and after- wards dried, it is to be well covered over with this mixture, of the consistence of cream, beginning with the roots. Four folds of soft brown paper are then to be placed over the whole, and secured by an oil-skin cap. The hair must remain in this condition from three to six or eight hours, according to the depth of shade required; and the cap may then be removed. Some of the dye will fall out and the rest must be combed and brushed out when the hair is dry. Washing the hair with water should be avoided for three or four days, as that renders it brittle, and irritates the skin ; otherwise this dye does not injure the hair. But the safest mode is to purchase the dye of some chemist on whom dependence can be placed, as Mr. Garden, of Oxford Street, London. It is to be obsei-ved, that as the hair grows, the parts next the roots will be undyed ; but from the usual mode of wearing the hair, this is not seen immediately, but the dyeing, on this account, requires renewal every two or three months. Powdered crude antimony (sulphuret of antimony) is employed by women in the East to stain their eyebrows black. The Persians are said to be very skiLFiU in dyeing their hair a glossy black, and frequently practise it. A black lead pencil is also often employed to colour the eyebrows; but this comes off by washing. 6110. Depilatories are sidjstances for removing superfluous hair: but they are mostly unsafe to use, the general basis of them being either yellow orpiment, which is a prepara- tion of arsenic, or caustic alkalis, and sulphate of barytes ; all of which in removing the hairs injure the skin, and their absorption may be dangerous. The oriental rusma is one of the most celebrated of these ; it is composed of two ounces of quicklime, half an ounce of orpiment, and strong alkaline ley, of course extremely caustic. It is sometimes tempered by the addition of a little starch or soft soap, so as to form a pomade. By its use the hair is removed in a few minutes, but we cannot recommend it Plucking out the hair by the roots, though more painful, is less dangerous. Gill. False hair is v/e\\ known, and is useful. It is made up of every shade and quality. Hair which does not curl or buckle naturally is brought to this state by art, in the following manner. After having picked and sorted the hair, and disposed it in par- cels, according to its lengths, they roll these up and tie them tight down upon little cylindrical instruments called pipes, of wood or earthenware; in this state they are put into a pot with water, over a fire, to boil for two hours. "When taken out, they are dried and inclosed in brown paper, and baked in an oven. 6112. Hair powder, at one time universally worn, is now scarcely used, except for oc- casionally drying or cleaning the hair, and similar purposes. It is merely wheat starch powdered very fine. It was formerly made of various colours, and perfumed.