VARIOUS ORDINARY BEVERAGES. CUAP. IX. 695 Yy 4 purpose as a tonic liqueur. It is reckoned hlglily stomachic, and is served at French dinners, savans and rcihcrches, eitlier as the coup d'apres or al^er tlie dessert— Meg Dods. :iU7G. The wassail bowl of ancient times was made of raiid ale, well spiced and sweetened; and sometimes with eggs beat up in it. 3977. T/K ancient Ypocras was made of a quart of red wine, an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of ginger, a quarter of an ounce of pepper, and half a pound of sugar, .ill put into a bag and infused in the wine. 3U78. Cool tankard. — The composition ol this ancient beverage is of great variet}'. The basis is home- brewed ale, spices, and seasoning lierbs. To a quart of good ale, add a glass of white wine, and anotlier of brandy, some lemon juice, and the rind pared very thin ; a little well-toasted bread ; a sprig or two of buriagc or balm, and a little nutmeg grated. Some use cyder instead of ale. 3979. Egg flip. — Heat a quart of good home-brewed or other ale, and pour it into a jug with a spout; in a similar jug beat up three or four eggs with a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, and one or two glasses of ruin or Drandy, flavouring it with nutmeg, ginger, and grated lemon-peel. When the ale is quite hot, hut not boiling, pour it quickly into the jug with the eggs return this back again into the other jug, and thus keep' pouring the mixture backwards and forwards from one jug to another, till the whole is thoroughly incorpo- rated, and as smooth as cream. 3980. Egg hot. — This is made in the same manner as the last, only there is no spirits nor spices; simply the egg, and ale or beer, with sugar. 3981. Ale posset. — Boil a pint of new milk with a slice of toasted bread ; pour a bottle of mild ale into a punchbowl, sweeten, and add spices, and then pour the boiling milk over it. A fine head should rise. 3982. Sack posset.— Boil some cream and grated sweet biscuits ; add sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Warm some sherry, and stir it into the cream ; then pour the whole quickly from one vessel to another until it be perfectly smooth ; or it may be made with eggs beat up in milk instead of the cream. 3983. Punch is a beverage made of various spirituous liquors or wine, hot water, the acid juices of fruits, and sugar. It is considered to be very intoxicating; hut this is probably because the spirit being partly sheathed by the mucilaginous juice and the sugar, its strength does not appear to tlie taste so great as it really is. Punch, which was almost universally drunk among the middle classes about fifty or sixty years ago, has almost disappeared from our domestic tables, being superseded by wine. 3984. English punch. — Rub the yellow rind of a lemon with lump sugar ; put this sugar into the punch bowl, and squeeze the lemon-juice to it, add the spirits, rum and brandy in such proportions as are preferred ; incorporate the spirits thoroughly with the sugar and lemon, before pouring in the boiling water, and keep stirring the whole while this is pouring: some add Madeira or Sherry. Punch is kept also cold in bottles, and iu summer is very agreeable. In Scotland it is frequently made with whiskey. Where fresh lemons cannot be had for punch, or similar beverages, crystallised citric acid, and a few drops of the essence of lemon, will be very nearly the same thing. 3985. Regent's punch A bottle of champagne, a quarter of a pint of brandy, a glassful of veritable Marti- nique : with this mix a pint or more of a strong infusion of the best green tea strained, and capillaire or simple syrup to taste Meg Dods. 398(). Norfolk punch. — Pare thirty-two Seville oranges, and the same number of lemons ; infuse the peel for two days in a large bottle or jar with a gallon of brandy (or flavourless whiskey) a little reduced in strength ; clarify in a g.illon of water four pounds of sugar ; when cold, strain the brandy (which will now be a tincture) to this ; add the juices of the oranges and lemons, previously strained and bottled, when the peel is taken off; cask the liquor, or put it in a jar, and stop it well ; in six weeks it may be gently poured, or drawn off, and bottled. A tincture of bruised nutmegs and cloves may be added to this compound; this will keep any length of time, and in any climate Meg Dods. 3987. Milk punch — Rub off on lumps of sugar the zest of a dozen lemons ; pare off what you do take ofT on the sugar, but take none of the white stuH'; infuse iu two quarts of brandy ; strain ofTin two days, and add of clarified syrup two pounds, and of water two quarts, with a lialf pint of hot new milk ; strain through a jelly bag, and keep in a close jar, or small cask till it fines, which will be in six weeks or less. Milk punch •may be made extempore by adding a little hot milk to lemonade, and straining through a jelly bag; it is gene- rally drunk cold. 3983. Wine punch.—Port wine two pints j arrack two pints ; the juice of twelve lemons ; sugar one pound; hot water six pints. 3989. Tea punch— Hot tea two pints ; arrack thirteen ounces ; sugar four ounces ; flavoured by rubbing off the yellow peel of the lemons; or green tea, jiiniper, and champagne. 3990. French punch Cut a lemon into thin slices, taking out the seeds ; boil them in water, and add a pinch of green tea, and let it infuse five minutes ; strain the whole, and add brandy and sugar sufficient. 3991. Auld man's viilk of Scotland, or Egg-nog qf America— Beat the yolks and whites of six eggs sepa- rately ; put to the beat yolks sugar and a quart of new milk, or thin sweet cream ; add to this rum, whiskey or brandy, about h,alf a pint; put in the whites of the eggs whipped up, and stir the whole gently. It may be flavoured with nutmeg or rind of lemon. 3992. Sangaree is a kind of punch frequently drunk in the West Indies, and is composed of half Madeira and half water, acidulated with lime-juice and sweetened with sugar. 3993. Mint julep of North America, from Capt. Marryatt Put into a tumbler about a dozen sprigs of the tender shoots of mint; upon them put a spoonful of white sugar, and equal proportions of peach and common brandy, so as to fill up one-third, or perhaps a little less. Then take rasped or pounded ice, and fill up the tumbler. Epicures rub the lips of the tumbler with a piece of fresh pine-apple and the tumbler itself is very often incrusted outside with stalactites of ice. As the ice melts, you drink. The Virginians, says Capt. Marryatt, claim the merit of having invented this superb compound; but from a passage in the Comus of Milton, he claims it for his own country. 3994. Rum shrub and water. — Rum shrub is made from the juice of lemons, %vith rum .ind sugar, but oflener of the juice of the lime, mm and sugar. Great quantities of lime-juice with rum arc imported from the West Indies, for the purpose of making shrub and other liquors. A small quantity added to water mukcs an agreeable beverage. Brandy shrub, and currant shrub, are made in a similar manner. 3995. Spirits and water warm, or cold as grog, are well known. •