Chap. IV. MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 391 C c 4 in Ayrshire, where it was first or best made, and where the pastures are very rich j but it is uow manufactured in other parts of Ayrshire. The best is made entirely from new milk, and it has a peculiarly mild and rich taste ; but there is nothing remarkable in the manner of making it. In some parts of England they never chmu the milk, hut only the cream ; consequently thev make little butter-milk, because the servants will not eat this, though they have no objection to skimmed milk. In Scotland and Ireland, on the contrary, they churn all the milk, and have of course much butter-milk, which is much relished there. In the Highlands of Scotland they make a cheese for the table of a very high gout, an almost Tiu'tarian preparation, by allowing the milk to become sour, and to coagulate of itself, which gives a flavour even more pungent than that of goat's milk cheese. 1999. What is called in London nciv cheese is made chiefly in Lincolnshire, and is either made all of cream, or, like the Stilton, by adding the cream of one day's milking to the milk that comes immediately from the cow : they are extremely thin, and are compressed gently two or three times, turned for a few days, and then sent to be disposed of to be eaten new with radishes, salad, &c. It may be made in the following manner. Warm some cream, add rennet in the proportion of a spoonful to a pint, or more if necessary. Put the curd into a sieve, having a cloth at the bottom ; when it has remained twenty- four hours, transfer it to a cheese vat, and cover it with a wet cloth and board'; in about two hours it may be used. 2000. Shimmed milk cheese. — Cheese made from the curd of skimmed milk, when all the cream has been separated, has in it no butyraceous matter, but is the caseous substance in a pure state, resembling very nearly white of eggs, or albumen, or perliaps more nearly the gluten of wheat. This clieese from skimmed milk only is made intliose districts of England v;here butter is the chief object of the dairy-man, as in Essex and Sutfiilk. What is made in England of this kind has scarcely any flavour, and dries almost as hard as horn, but is as digestible as the softer cheese, though not very palatable. It is, however, useful as part of ship stores, being less liable to spoil on a sea voyage than richer ciieese, particularly in a warm climate ; on the subject of skim milk cheese Dr. Anderson, celebrated for liis writings on agriculture, observes, tliat it is an erroneous idea to suppose that the agreeable taste of cheese depends solely upon the quantity of oily or fat matter it may contain. Parmesan cheese is m.ade of skimmed milk ; so are the Dutch chreses, which many ' consider as very pleasant tasted. He lias seen cheese made of skimmed milk, that ate exactly like the flnest ■ cream cheese, and he considers that wliat is called richness in clieese depends as much upoii the particular mode in which they are manulaclured, ;is upon the materials of whicli the cheese consists. In confirmation of this opinion he remarks that thougli the taste of Double Gloucester differs so much from Cheshire cheese \ yet they are both made from the same kind of milk. 2001. Parmesan cheese.—This most celebrated of all cheese is made in the duchy of Parma and Piacenza and in various parts of Lombardy : at present the district of Lodi is in high repute for it. It was formerly supposed to be made from goats' milk ; but it is made merely of skimmed cows' milk, and the high flavour which it has is supposed by ; some to be owing to the rich herbage of the meadows of the Po, where the cows are pastured, and by others solely to the process by which it is manufactured, a particular ; account of which may be seen in Cadell's "Journey in Italy, 1818." Half the milk has stood sixteen or seventeen hours, and the other half has stood only six. The milk is heated and coagulated in a cauldron ; and without being taken out of the cauldron, the curd is broken very small by an implement consisting of a stick with cross wires ; it is again heated, or rather scalded, till the curd, now a deposition from the whey, has attained a I considerable degree of firmness; it is then taken out, drained, salted, and pressed ; and in forty days it is fit to put into the cheese loft. The best Parmesan is kept for tliree or four years, and none is carried to market till it is at least six months old. Another : account of the manner of making it is to be found in the seventh vol. of the Bath Society's ; papers, and in the second vol. of Mr. Arthur Young's " Travels in France." 2002. Dutch cheese.—In Holland they coagulate their milk with muriatic acid instead I of rennet, which occasions that pungent taste peculiar to this cheese, and preserves it from 1 mites. The Gonda is most celebrated, which is made with extraordinary care. A detailed I description of the mode of making it is published in the Jour. Agri. des Pays Bus; and is > quoted in the excellent work by Margaret Dodds. The best Dutch cheese is made in I the environs of Leyden, at Eidam and Friezland, where also a very large quantity is I manufactured for England, of skimmed milk, chiefly for sea stores. In the Texel they 1 make cheese from ewes' milk ; a good deal of Dutch cheese of a round form comes now I to London; it is of a low price, and frequently of very good quality. 2003. Swiss cheese. — Switzerland has been long celebrated for its cheese : several varieties of cheese are produced there, and though made of skimmed milk, or partially • skimmed milk, yet are they remarkable for their fine flavour, which is partly owing to 1 the herbage of the mountain pastures. TJiat denominated from Gruycre, a bailiwick in 1 the canton of Fribourg, is best known in England. This is flavoiu-ed by the dried herb 1 of Mclilotos officinalis in powder. The cheeses weigh from forty to sixty pounds each, : and require to be kept in a damp place, and washed frequently with white wine to pre- serve it from the depredations of insects. Until of late, the manufacture of this cheese ■was limited to a few wealthy persons: as it is necessary for its quality that the cheese 1 should be very large, and that the milk should be coagulated on the day it was taken from