530 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BllITISII ISLES. Book VIII. through these issues perfectly transparent and clear, and freed from every thing except what it holds in solution. Art, imitating nature, employs sand for the same purpose, and filtering beds upon a great scale have been formed for purifying water, the supply of towns, and for domestic purposes. Little more, indeed, seems necessary for rendering water perfectly pure, where the impurities are merely of a mechanical nature. 2973. To filler water by means of sand, it is the practice in many places, particularly in „ France, to construct cisterns in the cellars, and to divide them into two unequal parts by a partition, a, fig. 525., that does not reach quite to the bottom. The largest of these divisions, b, is half filled with layers of sand of different de- grees of coarseness, and into this the water to be filtered is put : in passing down through the sand, all the mechanical impurities are detained, and it rises into the other division, c, perfectly clear. This method is so simple that it may be practised anywhere without difficulty. The shape and size of the cistern are quite immaterial. If a cock is placed in Fig. 525. jjjg sjjjaller division to draw off the water, it should be fixed a little way above the bottom, lest there might be some slight sediment which would be disturbed. It is obvious that the sand can only answer the purpose for a certain time ; for it must become clogged with the impurities and sediment from the foul water, and will require renewal more or less often, in proportion to the foulness of the water. The sand should be well washed before it is used, and it should contain no earthy matter, as this would defeat the object of filtration. Clean sharp sand is best, and it should be separated by sieves^ into various degrees of coarseness to place in different layers, the finest being put at the bottom. 2974. It viay be remarked that when water is filtered by nature through beds of sand, it ascends to the surface, by which the purification is more completely effected than by de- scent. In the latter case, some impurities might be forced through by the weight of the watei', or by their own gravity; but, in the former case, gravity must oppose the ascent of the impurities, which are therefore more likely to remain behind. Filters have been executed on this principle, by making the water pass upwards through the sand and char- coal, or other filtering materials. 2975. A very simple apparatus qf litis kind was made long ago by M. Parrot, of Paris, which has been the origin of much of tlie recent apparatus for this purpose. As it m.iy be very easily executed, it might be sometimes useful to tra- vellers, who may find it difficult, in some situations, to procure pure water. abc,fl^. 526., represents a curved tube, either round ^liich Fig. 526. or square, into which sand, or sand and charcoal, are put, up to tlie level of the dotted Une at c. A little flannel bag is put into the end a, and water poured into this has its coarsest im- purities retained by the flannel; and in p.-xssing through the ■ sand, in the lower part of the tube, and rising upwards to i, is completely purified, and drops into a vessel placed below. If ■ found necessary, a piece of linen or muslin may be tied over the mouth, to prevent any particle of sand coming over. A tube of this kind, about three inches in diameter, will filter about three quarts of water in an hour. The longer the leg , "'^ more rapidly it will filter, from the pressure of the ' water. 'I'he sand should be made pretty compact, for the slower the passage of the water, the more it will be purified. 2976. Upon this principle, an improved modeoffiltering has been effected in cisterns, namely, by forcing the water to ascend through the filter, instead of descending. Here the cistern has two partitions, a and b, fig. 527. That at a does not reach quite to the bottom, and the other has an aperture at b. In the middle division a piece of perforated metal, wood, or stone, or a cloth, is fixed a little above the bottom ; on this is placed a laj-er of small pebbles, then coarse sand and layers of charcoal, then finer sand and charcoal, the whole being covered bj' another cloth, also fixed just below the aperture b. The water to be filtered is put into the division a; it then passes below the first partition, and by its pressure rises through the perforated plate c, and like- wise through the pebbles, sand, and charcoal, and passing through the cloth above it runs through an aperture in the partition b into the last division, from which it is drawn by a cock as it is wanted. 2977. An easy method of cleaning the filtering materials is by makmg the water pass through them in a contrary direction to what it does when filtering. For example, sup- posing as we have just stated, the division a is that which receives the foul water, and b that which receives the purified water. Then, to clean the filtering apparatus, reverse the process, and fill the division h with unpurified water ; it will pass through the aper- ture in the 'partition l>, and descend through the cloth, the sand, and perforated plate c, Fig. 527.