STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. 1138 chiefly that the horse draws, and by which the action of the fore limbs is eflFected. The ^, shoulder is formed by two bones, tlie fig. 894 shoulder blade and humerus or arm, which are covered and cencealed by large muscles; c is the centre of action of the shoulders. The humerus is the bone which among anatomists corresponds to our own, and it articulates with the shoul- der blade (see fig. 893.), ahhough among horsemen the bone below it is called the arm. d is the back, which extends from the withers to the loins, c is the loins, at the hinder part of the saddle, when that is on. / is the croup, extending from the loins to the setting on of the tail. The flank, g, is the part between the ribs and haunches, h is the situation of the whirl- bone of the farrier, at the hip .joint, for- med by the articulation of the pelvis bone with the true thigh bone of anatomists (see fig. 893.), concealed by muscles, and only to be understood by reference to the skeleton, i is the belly; k is the stifle; I is the part called the thigh by horsemen, m is the hock, or the articulation of the thigh bone of horse- men with their leg bone; n, the leg of horsemen ; o, the pastern ; p, the hoof. In the fore extremities there are q, the thigh of horsemen ; r, the knee ; s, the fore leg; /, the fore pastern ; u, the fore hoof. Sect. III. VARIOUS QUALITIES IN A HORSE. 6754. The height of a horse is measured hy hands, each hand being equal to four inches. The height of hunters and hackneys varies from fifteen to seventeen hands, but is never below the former; most usually between fifteen and sixteen, which makes them about five feet high from the point of the shoulder to the ground. Cobs are from fourteen to fourteen hands and two inches ; Galloways are from thirteen to fourteen ; ponies are not above thirteen hands ; Welsh ponies sometimes not above twelve. 675.5. Horses are usually broken and trained at four-and-a-half or five years old, but not before ; at five they are in general considered fit for fiill work. A horse is generally reckoned in his prime when from seven to ten years of age. 6756. Horses are not injured but rather strengthened by plenty of work, provided it be not too hard, and that they are well fed: but they should not be much worked too soon, and before they have arrived at their adult state, as this is apt to bring on premature old age. Few horses last more than twelve or fourteen years with constant work; and during that time it must be expected that they are unfit for work from sickness. 6757. The extent of the horse's life seldom reaches much above twenty-five years ; though with good usage they will live to thirty, and even to forty years. ^Vhen very old they suSer much from decay of their teeth. 6758. A horse's age is judged of chiefly by his teeth. — The horse, as is well known, has six incisive or nipping teeth in the front of his mouth in the upper and under jaw; four canine teeth, called also tushes, and six molars or grinding teeth in each jaw, above and below. The mare is without tushes, and has but thirty-six teeth while the horse has forty. The foal has six grinding teeth in each jaw at its birth, without front teeth ; the tenth or twelfth day after, two of the front teeth appear above and below, and in fourteen or fifteen days more the two intermediate come out, and the corner ones three months after., 6759. Various changes take place till the horse is two or three years old, when the front teeth fall out and give place to the permanent ones. At four years the horse has six molar teeth,' and at five the tushes appear. Beyond nine or ten years the age of the horse caiinot be ascertained with any certainty by his teeth ; and previously to that time it requires persons of much experience to speak with decision on the age of a horse by his teeth. Breeders and dealers are known to practise various tricks with the teeth for the purpose of deception. 6760. ^VIlat are xmially termed the paces of a horse is his manner of moving. The or- dinary paces are walking, trotting, galloping, and cantering; these are improved in the training. 67G1. To vmlh well is a valuable property in a saddle horse, particularly to timid riders