I Chap. IV. C29 DOMESTIC WINES. of When the fermentation is slow in beginning, a little warm must is sometimes introduced to the bottom of the vat, by means of a long finuicl. In order to check tlie fermentation when in danger of proceeding too far, from the fermenting principle being in too great quantity, several modes may be adopted. Sugar may be added to the must, that the ferment may act upon this in producing more alcohol, and thus increase the ■ strength of the wine, instead of causing the acetous fermentation to come on ; or the fermentation may be checked by racking. Fermentation is ahvavs more rapid in large than in small vessels, which may explain : the dillerence that may be perceived in mak"ing ten or two gallons of wine. But the flavour is best preserved I when the quantity is small and the fermentation slow. 353G. Tlie intoxicating -property of brisk ivines, like all others, depends chiefly upon the . alcohol; but the reason why they produce this effect so rapidly is supposed to be that the . alcohol and carbonic acid are held in some peculiar state of combination when they are ; applied to the nervous system. 3537. The colour of wines front grapes, though an important circumstance in foreign ■wines, is one that does not here demand our attention, as red wines are seldom attempted ■with us. It has been already stated, that the juice of all grapes alone produces only . colourless or white wine, the colour residing in the skin of the grape. When a red colour i is required, the skins of red grapes are fei-mented together with the juice, when the newly- I formed alcohol dissolves the colouring matter. With respect to artificial colouring it is pro- I bably much better omitted. The claret grape may, however, be employed for this purpose. 3.538. We have now shown that a compound or artificial must can be fabricated from due ; admixtures of sugar with the natural ferment of the grape and the saline part of the fruit, ■ which is capable of undergoing a regular fermentation, and of forming good and perfect ■ wine. Experiments have been made long ago in France with green grapes and sugar, ; and with complete success : these experiments have been repeated by Dr. Macculloch, and I thus have been produced wines resembling Champagne. Grave, Rhenish, Moselle, St Peray, and white Hermitage, and of qualities so perfect that the best judges and wine- I tasters have not been able to distinguish them from foreign wines. When sugar is I employed, it is probable that the sugar now made from starch or potatoes will be the best I being the same as that of the grape, which, as we formerly stated, is different from the 1 common or cane-sugar. It is evident that wines made on this principle, that is, from green grapes, will be more I expensive than when made from ripe grapes, as a sufficient quantity of sugar must be used I to compensate for the deficiency of the natural saccharine matter of the grape. But even I then they need be little more costly than currant or gooseberry wines, while, at the same I time, their superiority is beyond all competition. The hardiest gi-apes will produce a ' wine of the strength of white Hermitage with a proportion of three pounds or less of sugar ! to the gallon ; nor are these wines void of flavour, as might, perhaps, be supposed. Dr. '. Macculloch states, that all the wines made under his direction were characterised by fla- 'vours as genuine and decided as those of the foreign wines to which they approximated. 3539. Dr. Macculloch^s receipt for making wine of mature grapes :— " It is so seldom that a sufficient quantity of these can be procured, that it is almost superfluous to mention t this variety of domestic wine ; and the reader already knows that the grapes ripened in this country make ivery indiflerent wine, .ind indeed it happens, even in more favoured climates, that the grapes of g.-irdens are ! noted for producing bad wine. If wine is to be made from ripe grapes, no water is to be used ; but as the juice c of our fruit is in general deflcient in sweetness, it is necessary to add a quantity of sugar, varying from one to I perhaps one and a half pound for each gallon otmust. The addition of some tartar to the must is also 1 useful in this case, our ripe grapes being deficient in this principle." " The general, though not the sole cause, of failure in those wines which are made in this country from ripe ! grapes, is the deficiency of saccharine matter ; and even those, as well as the wines from unripe grapes, would i be much improved by an addition of sugar to the must. It is owing to this deficiency, chiefly, that these 1 wines are |)erishable and easily pass into vinegar, the natural must containing too much water'to produce a 1 durable wine. No positive rules, however, as we have said, can he given for the quantities of sugar to bo ; added, as this must depend upon the degree of sweetness in the grapes.'* 3540. •' If the wine is intended to bo dry, like hock, more grapes must be used, with about the same quantity I of sugar, or less water, or perhaps this will be best omitted. The fermentation must he allowed to continue 1 long enough to convert all the sugar into alcohol, which will be known by the disappearance of the sweetness. : Should it happen that the ferment is rather in too small a quantity to decompose all the sugar readily, it is I proper to make the most use of wh.at there is. Instead, thcrelbre, of removing the yeast which rises to the ' surface, it should be beat down, and mixed again through the fermenting must; and when the liquor is trans- I ferred to the casks to undergo the slow fermentation, it should not be made to fill the casks quite, but space ■ should be left for the yeast to collect, and this should be frequently mixed up with the liquor by shaking or I rolling. As soon as all the sweetness is gone, the fermentatiim must be checked, and the wine must be 1 racked into other casks, otherwise it would pass into the acetous stage. The fermentation, if unchecked, ' would continue, under favourable circumstances, as long as any sugar or ferment remains undecomposed ; if I these have been ni such proportion iis exactly to neutralise e.ich other, the fermentation will be perfect, and • will terminate naturally ; the wine being dry, the ferment, now rendered insoluble and inactive, appearing I under the form of yeast and lees. But this nice accuracy is seldom attainable ; if the ferment be con- • siderably in excess, the fermentation will proceed I'rom the vinous to the acetous stage, and the whole will I become vinegar. It is necessary that there shall be so much saccharine matter, that a small portion of it ^ «h.all still continue unchanged, andtliis will be the case, though it may not be perceived, because the palate is I unable to detect the last portion of sugar, marked as it is by the predominant taste of the wine. This small 1 excess of sugar is necessary to exhaust tlie ferment, and to prevent tlie acetous st.age. The addition of sugar 1 to wine will in the same manner prevent acidity, when it is suspected that this may happen, by exhausting the I ferment; but, should .acidity have commenced, sugar will only aggravate the evil, by adding material for the ; acid fermentation to work upon." " All the dry and sweet wines require to be kept in bottle for four or five years, if it be desired to have I them in perfection. The Impatience of the makers of dnniestic wines to enjoy the jiroduce of their art is I indeed, one of the causes of failure. They are generally drunk within a year or two, .and long before thevara ■ completed; since even tho best wines of foreign countries often require many years to bring them to per-