653 Chap. V. ON THE MAKING OF CYDER. mass, the operation proceeding slowly, with free access of air, which is supposed to pro- mote the tendency to that decomposition which the mass is afterwards to undergo. 3679. Several methods of grinding the fruit are practised; but that most commonly in use in Herefordshire, Devonshire, and the adjoining counties, is the bruising- stone, or apple mill, fg. 565. This is a very ancient method, and is still .em- ployed in Devonshire, Herefordshire, and other western counties. The fruit is put into a circular chase, or wide groove, in a solid mass of stone, and they are crushed by a circular stone, three or four feet in diameter, which is a little narrower than the groove, and which is carried round by a long axle, that passes through it, and is connected at one end with an upright piece which stands in the centre of the fruit cistern. These circular bruising-stones generally weigh from one to two tons. It is essential that they should not be of limestone, nor have calcareous pebbles in their composition, as the lime would be dissolved by the acid of the apples. The best stones consist of a coarse grit, usually called " mill-stone grit," that is raised in the forest of Dean ; but these often have the defect of being of too coarse workmanship, uneven places being left, which prevents them from bruising effectually the pips of the apples. The bruising surface ought to be worked smooth, and very hard stone, as granite, should be preferred. These circular bruising-stones are made to revolve by the hand, or by a horse, according to their weight and the quantity of work to be performed. A strong round stick, called a stirrer, is employed to remove the fruit from the sides, and to keep it to the bottom of the stone. Metal instruments should be avoided, as they are liable to be acted upon by the acid juice ; and lead or copper are in particular improper. 3680. Wooden rollers have been tried for crushing the fruit, in the same manner as is practised with the sugar canes in the West Indies : but it is found that the apples being globular, and of a cellular substance, are not easily laid hold of; or, if caught, have no lengthened fibres to induce them to pass, like the cane, between plain rollers. In Ireland they use wooden cylinders, but they cover the surfaces with studs of iron, like a barrel organ, and some use fluted rollers of wood and iron ; but the acid of the fruit corrodes the iron, which, in a small degree, tinges the liquor. Upon the whole, therefore, perhaps the stone runner above described, if properly executed, is the most eligible instrument : for operations on a very small scale, where a mill is not at hand, a large block of wood hol- lowed out like a mortar, and a wooden pestle, might prove a succedaneum. Much depends upon the accuracy with which the grinding is performed, which ought to be continued until the pips, as well as the other parts, are completely broken down. On this account, the mill must not be choked with fruit; a moderate, and rather small charge, is more perfectly comminuted, and in proportionably a shorter time than a large one ; the fruit should be strewed one apple in depth. 3681. Pressing is the next operation; and some, instead of pressing the pulp imme- diately after the grinding, prefer suffering it to remain in the grinding trough, or in vats for the purpose, for some time, perhaps for twelve or twenty-four hours, according to the season, that an extract from the rind and kernels may be produced. By allowing the juice to stand some time on the marc, the flavour of the apples is extracted ; and the fer- mentation is sooner excited. But in warm weather, there is a danger in letting it remain too long, for the acetous and even putrefactive fermentation are apt to set in. This danger is greater in apples collected in summer, when they are scarcely ripe, than with those which are gathered in the autumn ; for in unripe apples there is abundance of natural ferment, and their juice will sometimes ferment spontaneously in a few hours ; whereas the juice of apples perfectly ripe will not ferment for several days, even in a warm room. 31)82. The cijdcr press is constructed on the same principles as those machines which are intended to afford a strong and powerful pressure, as the packing and oil presses. The presses used in Herefordshire are a modification of the common screw press, the screw being vertical, and about six or seven inches in diameter, and the pressing boards hori- zontal. In Ireland, the force applied to the boards is by means simply of a lever. The hydro-mechanical press is the most powerful. The pressing is effected by putting the pulp into bags made of horse-hair cloth ; some, instead of hair cloth, lay long straw under the pommage, the ends of which they turn up over it; then they cover the pommage with very fresh clean straw or reeds, upon which they spread another layer of pommage, and so on alternately, till the press is full ; either method will do, but the bags are the neatest. The first pressing should be very light, so as to extract only that portion of the juice