( UAP. 111. BATHING. 1221 o p the same construction as in the upright shower-bath, Jig. 912., and is shown in the section A. An iron ring, e,f, is attached to the cistern, from which the curtains hang, and another ring, but larger, keeps out the bottom of the curtain. The price of this appara- tus is only from twelve to sixteen shillings. 7198. When economy is an object, a shower-bath may be easily made on a cheaper plan. A wooden tub will do for the lower recc-ptacle, to the side of which may be nailed two or three uprights of wood, having at the top some kind of pail with a perfoi'ated bottom, or a large tin cullender would answer, into wliich an attendant, on a pair of steps, might pour water; a hoop at the top of the uprights might support a curtain of calico. Even simpler forms may be contrived by persons of ingenuity. The small quantity of water required by the shower-bath is a circumstance of great convenience. If the cistern is contrived so as to hold considerably more water than is necessary, the patient can suspend and renew the shower at pleasure, which, in some cases, may be desirable. 7199. A shower-bath for children has been lately brought into use. It consists of a bell- shaped tin vessel, fig. 914., the bottom of which is pierced full of holes, a hollow tube rising from the top, the aperture of which can be closed by the pressure of the finger. To use it, the bell must be sunk in a pail of water, and when it is full the fore-finger is to be pressed hard upon the top of the tube, so as to close it perfectly. The bell may now be raised out of the water, and by means of the pressure of the atmosphere, as in the case of the barometer, it will continue full until it is lifted over the head of the child; when, by withdrawing the finger from the tube, the water is dis- charged in a sudden shower through the numerous holes in the bottom of the bell. 7200. Cold affusion, or throwing cold water on the naked body in disease, to reduce its temperature is a rude form of the shower-bath, and is more sudden and decisive than it. It is sometimes used in fevers by the advice and under the superintendence of a medical man, and should Fig. 914. seldom be intrusted to others. SuBSECT. 7. — Sponging. 7201. Sponging the body with cold or tepid water may be enumerated as one of the modes of bathing. In cases of febrile diseases, the object in sponging is to reduce the heat of the surface : but as its action is powerful, it should not be employed in this case except by direction of the medical attendant. It is sometimes performed while the patient is still in bed; the night dress being stripped down, and a large cloth tied round the waist to prevent wetting the bed-clothes, while a wet sponge is passed over the body ; or a wet flannel is applied to the skin, after which the body should be dried by a gentle or brisk friction. In