1194 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. child s attempts to feed itself; should place the spoon in its right hand; see that it is not hlled too full; nor, -when lifted to the mouth, forced awkwardly into it. The child should be prevented when he seems to have satisfied his appetite, from throwing about the remams of his food, by his plate being removed to a sufficient distance from him, and his spoon taken gently out of his hand. This being uniformly done when he is inclined to scatter his food around him, will soon cure him of the trick. The use of a knife cannot, at this early period, be allowed him; he must not have it until he has sense to know the danger of misapplying it. Children's meat should be minced as small as possible. If too much trouble is left to their feeble power of masticating, they will shun it by swallowing their food unmasticated. For children whose digestion is weak, it may even be desirable to have their meat pounded. 7069. Children should be encouraged to sit still at their'meals; but these should be made as short as possible, that the patience of the children should not be tried too severely. Also they should be encouraged in cheerfulness at meal time and not in turbulence. Vigour in the digestive organs is said to be promoted by cheerfulness, but impaired by gloomy impressions or by great anxiety of mind indulged in during meals. If this be the case, it must be desirable to keep children's spirits free from any depressing influences, and yet not forced into the opposite extreme of excitement. 7070. In childhood, as with most young animals, activity after eating seems natural, and we may thence infer that it is beneficial also, although in later seasons of life the reverse appears to be more generally believed. If, however, children are inclined to active sports after their meals it is wisest to allow them, otherwise they will be fretful in their obedi- ence, or altogether rebellious. 7071. Greediness is a disagreeable habit in children, too often encouraged by fruit, cakes, or other sweet things being given them as rewards or withheld from them as punishments, and thus is an undeserved value placed on such things. Sometimes, Lf begged for with childish importunity or petulance, they are given to silence the bold beggar. The more timid child gains nothing by his opposite conduct except perhaps to see justice and impartiality sacrificed to loud vociferations and tears. When children are really deserving of punishment, it is not a desirable way of inflicting it by any deprivation of food or dainties ; certainly not to give to the brother or sister the portion forfeited by the offending party. Anger, on the one hand, is probably excited towards the favoured one, and pleasure on the other hand, by the mortification experienced by the oficnding brother or sister. If any use in education be made of the natural love of sweet things, it should be to cement the social and relative connections in life, not to dissever them ; also to discourage selfishness and to forward the development of the generous and dis- interested qualities. These moral benefits may be looked for when children are taught to sacrifice all enjoyments which end in self, to the higher pleasure of imparting enjoyment to others. To induce children to share with or give to brothers and sisters the things they like themselves is the best use that can be made of the love of sweet things and dainties. Greediness would be scarcelj' known in children if none but simple wholesome food were placed before them. Such rarely tempts to immoderate indulgence of the appetite, but renders restriction almost needless. Tempt children with dainties and restriction becomes needful, yet it does but increase the value of the things desired. Compulsory regulation of the appetite does not induce that most important of habits, self restraint. The reverse is often more obvious. Those children whose appetites are strictly regu- lated by vigilant mothers and nurses more frequently transgress, when opportunity allows them, the rule of moderation than those do whose unpampered appetites are left to their own discretion. An infant almost uniformly expresses its satisfied appetite by pushing away the offered spoon, or by receiving its contents with indifference, that decided symptom of satiety which ought never to be unnoticed; no child, after such show of indifference to its food, should be urged to eat, even though it may not have cleared the plate or basin of its contents. It is safer to waste such remnants than to surcharge the organ of digestion. It is equally injurious to the child whether the nurse forces it to take more food than it requires, or whether its own pampered taste induces greediness. Yet many nursery disciplinarians think it their duty to force children to eat up all that has been put upon their plates, forgetting how much they themselves might suffer from indigestion were they compelled to similar excess in eating. Neither is the subject of antipathies to particular articles of food, always sufficiently considered. It is sometimes thought necessary to overcome them by forcing the child to eat what seems to be so very repugnant to it. Nature prescribes a different rule ; what is thus disliked by any indi- vidual is often peculiarly injurious to that individual. Thus in regard to the fat of butcher's meat. Wherever it is nnich disliked, we may believe that it is not only un- palatable but prejudicial, iuid not to be forced upon any one. This aversion should not be regarded as caiirioe, Init as arising from some peculiar slate of the stomach that time or change may rectify, but not compulsion.