SICKNESS IN THE NURSERY. 1209 <"UAP. II. attended to. Inflammation of the brain in children may attack suddenly, but in the :reater number of cases there are certain ivarning or premonitory symptoms, to which we irticularly invite attention. These symptoms indicate derangement of the digestive Mrans : the child is noticed to have partially lost its appetite ; seems dull and heavy; ix>p is disturbed ; and during sleep there is much sighing, and occasionally there is arting and crying; it seems as if the child were dreaming; the bowels are irregular, or more frequently there i» costiveness, which is overcome with difficulty. When motions are procured they are seen to be scanty, dry, of a white, or, on the contrary, of :i very dark colour, slimy, and foetid. Soon afterwards there is feverishness; the skin is hot, the mouth dry, the child picks its nose and lips ; there is thirst, and perhaps the breath is fcetid. Very shortly afterwards the child, if old enough, complains of pain m the head ; the brows are continually knitted ; the hands are raised to the head and back of the neck, and occasionally there is tottering in the walk ; the child raises its foot as if to step over a threshold, as if there were some obstacle in the way ; the eye presents _a peculiar appearance, the expression is dull and heavy, but the eye itself physically is light and sparkling; there is often vomiting, and particularly on raising the child from the recumbent to the erect position; the tongue is dry, white, yellow, or brownish. If the child be too young to express itself, it may often be seen to hang and droop its head over the nurse's arm, as if it felt too heavy for it; the brow is knitted ; there are occa- sionally fits of crying, and the expression of suffering seems often to have given a pre- mature and melancholy appearance of age to the countenance. These symptoms are truly " warning" but they do not always occur, or they may be slight and overlooked by the nurse, although evident enough to the eye of the medical man, who has been taught to observe them. Again, all are not usually present in a single case, and there are several - diseases which resemble in many of their characters the early stage of inflammation of the brain. For instance if the symptoms caused by worms are looked over, a great similarity is perceived in both diseases. There is loss of appetite, restlessness, grinding of the teeth, starting, sighing, irregularity and depraved condition of bowels, picking of the nose and lips, and feverishness. It is true that there are often certain differences: ia one case the bowels are more often relaxed, in the other constipated (though this does not always hold good) ; the expression of the countenance is different, and, in worms, there is often craving after a full meal; and there are some finer distinctions, which the practised eye will alone recognise; but a nurse can hardly be expected to make these somewhat minute distinctions. Again, one form of a disease which we shall have occasion briefly to describe (gastric remittent fever of infants) presents many points of similitude to the warning stage of inflammation of the brain ; and there are some other diseases which are somewhat similar. Dentition produces symptoms somewhat similar in young cliildren. But supposing these more tractable disorders are mistaken for inflammation of the brain, and unnecessarily alarm, is it not better that this should occur twenty times than that a true case of inflammation should be once overlooked ? And, moreover, in- flammation sometimes succeeds to these, and is, as it were, engrafted on them. We will presume, then, that when some, or all, of the above symptoms occur, the prudent mother win endeavour to remove them ; she will, perhaps, call in medical assistance, and this is the safest plan ; but for the sake of those who cannot always command immediate attend- ance, we will enumerate the chief measures to be adopted : — 1. Diet.—Nature often points out, by the loss of appetite, that food is unnecessary, perhaps hurtful; if some appetite remain, food may be given, but it should be of the lightest and most simple kind, farinaceous and milky ; its quantity also should be lessened. 2. The warm bath should be used once or twice a day ; the child should be kept quiet and not excited in any way, should take moderate exercise, but not too much: cold must he carefully avoided. .3. Aperients must be given. Now, although we are no friends to the indiscriminate employment of mercury in infantUe diseases by parents, and wish to condemn in the strongest terms the use of calomel on the slightest occasion, we think that in the present case an exception may be made to our general rule. A mild preparation of mercury with chalk (Jtydraryyrjtm cum cretd), known often by the name of " grey powder," is extremely useful in improving the condition of the bowels in the disease we are now considering. I'or a child of three years old, four or five grains may be given ; for a child of seven or eight years, seven or eight grains ; it should be taken at night and followed next morning by a dose of castor oil, two, three, or four tea-spoonfuls according to the age of the child. The mercury and chalk may be repeated on the following night, and the castor oil again file next morning. The mercury should not be repeated again without medical advice. The child perhaps may improve under this treatment, and the serious symptoms may disappear, but still for some time castor oil, the warm bath, and a careful diet should be used, and a recurrence of the constipation and disordered bowels must not be overlooked. If the disease does not yield, and the bowels get tender, and the headache and restlessness increase, no time should be lost in getting medical aid; it becomes necessary to apply leeches