Chap. I. MANAGEMENT OF COWS. 1155 4 E 2 Where the best milk is the only or principal object in a private family, the Aldemey breed is preferable ; but where butter is a great consideration, those breeds are to be ■ chosen which are known to afford good milk and cream in the largest quantity. 6848. The various modes of feeding coivs are technically divided into grazing, or feeding on grass in the fields ; soiling, or giving them green food cut and taken into the house ; and stall-feeding, which is confined chiefly to hay together with succulent roots, either in , a raw state or steamed. 6849. Of these the most perfect is certainly grazing, on pasture land, when the cows can ange at liberty amidst abundant pasturage ; but this, if many cows are kept, requires fields of considerable magnitude, and that suitable land can be had contiguous to the mansion. Although much has been said respecting the good qualities of certain roots and artificial grasses, yet experience has shown that no food is comparable to that of good natural pasture for milch cows ; for not only does it yield a greater quantity of milk, but the flavour of grass butter may always be distinguished, by its superior richness and delicacy, from that which has been made from milk produced by feeding in the house ; its quality, however, may be injuriously att'ected by the recent application of manure to the land. Cows, though quiet in their stalls during the wiuter, yet evince a strong degree i of restless anxiety to be at liberty when the spring season advances ; and when pasture land is abundant, they should be turned out during the day as early as possible in the : spring, and brought in at night to be fed upon sound meadow hay, until the weather be- . comes warm and the grass afi'ords a full bite. Some even allow them to lie out during : the whole night, from the month of May until about the end of October; but then they ■ ought to have a shed to take shelter in, and to shield themselves from the heat of the : sun in the middle of the day. It is the custom in Scotland, and manj' parts of Ireland, ■ to tether the cattle upon the grass lands, which is rendered necessary in general by the want of enclosures. This, in some instances, is better than sufi'ering them to wander i over the ground, as only part of the grass is eaten up at a time, while the rest has time I to grow. Whether a professed dairy servant be absolutely necessary will depend upon I the number of cows and the nature of the establishment, and whether butter and cheese ; are to be made, &c. 6850. In cases where grazing land cannot he procured, and yet the advantage of keeping : a cow or two may be desired, this may be effected, in many situations, by keeping them i in-doors in a cow-honse; although it cannot be expected that they will thrive quite so ■ well, nor yield such milk, as when they have the opportunity of collecting their food in 1 the open fields. It is well known, however, that in many parts of the Continent, particu- I larly in Switzerland and the whole of Flanders, as well as in the vicinity of London, 1 cows are kept in this manner all the year. There are, indeed, many advocates for this ; mode of feeding cattle, called stall-feeding, as preferable on the score of economy. It is : argued that cattle injure the grass by treading, staling, dunging, and lying down upon it; : and also that many grasses go to seed, and are wasted from not being cut in time; whereas the manure being collected in the stable can be employed more advantageously ; and that the cattle are not so much annoyed in the house by flies, and do not injure the ! fences. It is likewise shewn that the same quantit)' of land cultivated for stall-feeding will support a great many more cattle than as pasture land. Stall-feeding is much prac- t tised in Sussex: and Lord Egremont used to have his milch cows tied up during the . greater part of the year; he maintained that one-third of the food was saved ; that the : cows were fed with a fourth part of the usual trouble ; that more dung was made; and I that there was no spoiling the ground. 6851. A small piece of land, even perhaps little more than half an acre, may be made 1 to produce grass sufficient, when cut and brought into the house, to keep a cow nearly the • whole year; whereas it would be quite impossible for her to derive her whole food from I the same quantity of land, were she suffered to tread over it. Indeed, it would not be i judicious management even to suffer the cows to range over the grass after the hay had ' been taken from it, on account of the injury it would occasion by treading; it would be 1 much better to close the field at this time, and allow it to revive with the aid of a little I manure, and fresh grass seeds. Notwithstanding these facts, this practice is not much ! followed in England, though enough has been done to show its practicability if found de- : sirable. The trouble attending it appears to be a considerable objection. Construction of the Cow-House. 6852. Homed cattle are much hardier than horses, and much less liable to disease ; I they will endure a greater degree of cold in winter, and of heat in summer, and they re- ' quire less delicacy of management in their lodging. No horise could be kept in his stall I for months without exercise in the open air and yet retain his health ; but milch cows are I kept in the neighbourhood of London standing in the same stall for a year or two with : scarcely ever being taken out; and in Germany, from the severity of the climate, and the