1003 BLEACHING. CUAP. X. the -watering is less frequent, and at night it is left to the full action of the air and dews. On the succeeding days it is -watered three or four times a day, if the -weather he dry, and it remains on the field till the air seems to have less effect in whitening. It is then brought back to the coppers, and bucked again -with a ley somewhat stronger than the last, rinsed, and again spread out in the field, which is called crofting. It is thus bucked and watered ten or fifteen times, according to the weather, making the bucking stronger and stronger, till about the middle, and then weaker and weaker till about the last. It must now undergo the process of souring, or steeping in some acid liquor. The acid which had generally been used was formed by the fermentation of bran and -water, or sometimes sour whey has been used. But sulphuric acid, very much diluted, has been found more convenient, shortening the process considerably, and being not more injurious. The cloths are kept in the souring for five or six days, and sometimes weeks, if it be formed of milk or bran; or only twenty-four hours if sulphuric acid has been used. The use of the acid liquor is to dissolve any earthy or metallic matter either inherent in the cloth, or accidentally communicated to it, or derived from the impui'ity of the alkaline salts in which it has been boiled. They are then rubbed with soap, more particularly the selvages, as these resist most the action of the air. The cloth is now again bucked, rinsed, watered, and exposed to the air, and these processes are repeated successively tiU the linen has acquired the necessary whiteness. 5911. The art of bleaching was formerly so little understood in Great Britain, that nearly all the linen manufactured in Scotland was sent to Holland to be bleached ; but it has been since practised here with perfect success, and the whole operation of grass- bleaching generally requires six months. In India, where bleaching was practised from the earliest time, citric acid diluted was used in some places instead of sour milk. But this old method of bleaching required considerable time as well as labour ; and the risla of damage and robbery from the cloth lying so long exposed demanded much watching, and consequently great expense was incurred. By the modern discoveries in chemistry, these inconveniences have been in a great degree obviated, and a new bleaching agent has been introduced unknown to our forefathers, but capable of giving astonishing rapidity and perfection to this important art. This new agent is called chlorine, formerly named oxygenated muriatic acid gas, which possesses the singular property of destroying all vegetable colours. 5912. Bleaching by chlorine. — The gas called chlorine was first discovered by Scheele, a Swedish chemist, in 1774. Its property of destroying colours maybe easily exhibited by putting into a phial containing it several slips of wet printed cottons ; after remaining a short time, they will become entirely white. When this gas is absorbed by water, a liquid is produced, formerly called oxygenated muriatic acid, which possesses the same remarkable property, and this was first noticed by Scheele from its whitening the cork of the phial containing it; but it was Berthollet who suggested its application to the bleach- ing of cloths, for which it is found so useful, that it brought down the time required for' this operation from months to days, and even to hours. Profiting by the suggestions of Berthollet, several scientific persons in England, among whom were Professor Copland, Mr. Watt, and Mr. Henry, made experiments and improvements upon this new agent. Chlorine gas, by itself, was at first found extremely difficult to use, from its volatility and the suffocating nature of its odour. This gas was then condensed in water, and after, wards potash was mixed with this, which had the effect, in a considerable degree, of : lessening its deleterious action upon the lungs. This diminution of action on the lungs I does not depend on the chlorine itself being changed, but on the slow extrication of it per- 1 milling the gas to be greatly diluted with atmospheric air. The latter process having 1 been invented at Javelle, the liquid obtained the name of liqueur de Javelle. 5913. But a discovery made by Mr. Henry at Manchester, and by Mr. Tennant of "Glasgow, has entirely obviated the inconveniences occasioned by the smell of chlorine, and rendered the process of bleaching scarcely, if at all, injurious to the workmen. In •this new process the chlorine is combined with lime, forming chloride of lime, which pos- ■ sesses the bleaching qualities with much less of the noxious smell; and cloth's put into a solu- • tion of this, diluted in a proper manner, can be bleached with such rapidity, that it is said a bleacher in Lancashire received 1400 pieces of grey muslin on a Tuesday, which on the Thursday immediately following were returned bleached to the manufacturers at the dis- ; tance of sixteen miles, and they were packed up and sent off on that very day to a foreign ■ market. It may be easily conceived what a saving of time and capital this must occasion. ■So greatly has bleaching been benefited by the discoveries of modern science, that all the [processes are commonly performed in a few days, and at the trivial cost of a halfpenny per \yard on the cloth bleached and finished. The chloride of lime, or bleaching powder, is now I made for threepence a pound. In using it the powder is mixed with a sufficient quantity of water, and immersion in a solution of it answers the same purpose as exposing the cloths on the grass and watering. The dry chloride is less liable to decomposition than the liquid, besides being more portable.