37 l^HAP. VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. r,;cll as marble. It is perfectly hard and extremely durable. Mouldings can likewise be iasily formed with it, and consequently walls may be panneled. It is of moderate xxpeuse. 126. Kee/ie's patent marble cement is a late invention, and appears to be approved iff. It is of various kinds. The coarse qualities form a paving not distinguishable from t tone in colour and hardness, but at less price; one variety is a close imitation of marble. •')ur limits will not pennit us to describe various other stuccoes that have been invented and rried,which is the less to be regretted, since most of them have failed, and are of little use. 127. Rough casting is a cheap and durable method of finishing walls instead of stucco, jmd is well calculated to protect them from the effects of the weather, but is chiefly em- iMoyed in small houses and cottages in the country built of rough stone or rubble. There ore two kinds of rough cast. In the first, the wall receives a coat of lime and hair laid inn smooth; and as fast as a certain portion of it is covered, the rough cast is thrown or pplashed against the wet mortar with a large trowel. This rough cast is made by reducing irery fine gravel or coarse sand to an uniform size by sifting or skreening, and washing the aarth away from it. This is mixed with newly slacked lime and water to the consistence iff thick cream. When the plasterer has covered a part of the wall in the manner iiaentioned, he brushes it over with a white wash brush dipped into the pail with the Mongh cast so as to lay the whole smooth and even. The intense white of the lime 5 3 unpleasant to a person of taste, although, in some parts of the country, many delight m it; but this white glai'e may be easily softened, and a stone colour produced, by Hiutting into the mixture a sufficient quantity of yellow or stone ochre, or Spanish brown, 'nr ochre with brown or black, to produce the desired tint. It will be necessary to try hhe colour on a board or a part of the wall, and to let it dry to determine the exact iint, and to put more colour or more lime and sand till the tint be adjusted. Either a uufficient quantity should be made for the whole building, or very great care must be taken oo get the same tint in every quantity that is used, or the colouring wiU look patchy; end it is to be observed, that the tint given must be very light, otherwise it may be worse hhan pure white. Another method of rough casting is also used. Upon the first coat of lime and hair there is hhrown, while it is yet in a soft state, a quantity of very small angular fragments of stone, i&s limestone, granite, &c. These fragments being pressed stick in the mortar, and are iirmly fixed there when the latter is dry and hard. This mode is much practised in jJristol, where broken spar from the quarries gives a rich glittering appearance to the iiiouses done with it. 128. A colouring for outside walls may be made of fresh slaked lime, to which a little uulphate of iron added will give a warm tint. This colouring is useful for a brick house hhat has become black and dirty : it should be done before the wall is fresh pointed, and ff the tint be well chosen, the house will look nearly as if just built. Painting stone or stuccoed ivalls with oil colours has been found sometimes a good practice, iind preserves them very much.' 129. Limewhiting is a wash made by mixing quick-lime with water alone, and laying it >on with a large flat brush : it is used for areas and similar places. If required not to be aapable of being rubbed off, some coarse size may be added. An excellent lime-wash for zvalls or boarding of out-houses or cottages may be made iss follows : — Half fill with water a tub of six or eight gallons, and add to it as much of Ilean, sharp, and rather coarse sand, and of Dorking lime fresh burnt, in about equal liiuantities, as much as will make, when it is well stirred up and mixed, a wash of about hhe thickness of cream. Lay this on the walls with a large brush, taking care to stir up hhe mixture every time the brush is dipt into it, so as to take up as much sand as possible, rrhe more fresh the lime the bgter, which, if good and proper for the purpose, will make hhe water hot. StJBSECT. 10.— Carpenters'work. 130. Though the bricklayer is the first artificer who begins, yet the carpenter very soon ':omes into action. In the building business a distinction is made between the artificers ■n wood who assist in forming the carcass, and those who execute the finishing in the tame material. The first are termed carpenters, the latter./ome;-s. 131. Timber. The only kinds of timber in common use for building in this country, mre oak, and fir or wood of the pine tribe; the former is by far the strongest and most Idurable, but likewise most expensive. 132. By far the best oak is of English groivth. There are two varieties of it, the Quercus ■obnr, or common oak, the most abundant; and another much more rare and less known, 'Quercus sessijlora, distinguished from the former by having long foot-stalks to its leaves, 'ft is said that the latter had been employed in some of the oldest wooden roofs in England, •which are usually supposed to be of .ihesnut. English oak is chiefly employed in shii") building, but it is likewise used in domestic buildings whenever great streniilh or durabililv D 3 - J