HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. 1197 Chap. I. exercise, provided it be progressive and uniform; no overstrain upon them one day, nor disuse allowed them at other times. Either excess of exercise, or the want of it, would alike debilitate them. Thus muscular power, which varies in degree in men and women, and equally so among individuals of either sex, may yet be, in each individual case, improved or impaired, by exercise, according to the use or abuse of it. 7087. In this chapter, which relates to the physical treatment of infancy and childhood only, there seems no reason for prescribing different rules for the treatment of boys and girls. To the age of five or six they must be, in all material points, brought up alike. As they progress towards youth, modifications in the bodily treatment of girls will occur, in contemplation of their future position in life, which will require from them sedentary employment, and deny them indulgence in any but gentle exercise, suited to the part they have to fill in their social life. 7088. From birth to maturity, nature, by progressive, and not sudden measures, gives strength to all organised beings; hence this rule must be observed by those who conduct the physical education of infancy and childhood. Exercise proper for infancy is at first but the gentlest of movements in the nurse's arms, on her knee. Afterwards, when three weeks or a month old, an infant may be carried out of doors, but always in a recumbent posture, for in that posture an infant should be principally kept, for the first six weeks or two months of its existence. 7089. Night and morning, after being washed, the limbs, back, and stomach of an infant should be gently rubbed by the nurse. This friction may scarcely be termed exercise, but it acts as such on the delicate vessels of the skin, sending through them that, degree of circulation which renews the warmth of the body, and promotes the healthy action throughout the skin, the body's covering, which it is most important to the animal economy to preserve in health. 7090. An infant of three months old should then begin to have active nursing in the arms. At this period a child may be permitted to be carried about in an upright position^ Every nurse-maid should accustom herself to cjrry children on either hand ; if this be done alternately, a child is in less danger of acquiring any habitual position of the body, which might end in a curvature of the spine, especially if there be in the infant any con- stitutional weakness. To vigorous children the mode of caiTying may not be of the same consequence ; but it is often very distressing to those who have maternal feelings to see fine children carried about for hours together on the left arm generally, their bodies bent forward, their backs forming a bow ; unnoticed by their nurses, their countenances are overcast, and the benefit the air and exercise might aflbrd them is lessened by the weari- ness they evidently experiencee, from this continued painful position on the same arm. Children after illness being carried about in this one position often become deformed. Besides being at this period carried, the child may be tossed in the air (though not too violently) with good effect; it may be laid on its back on the floor, or on a mattrass, and suffered to kick out its legs, and to stretch out its arms, but it ought not to be kept long in any one position. The moment it begins to wail it should be taken up, and some other motion tried, to keep it lively, and its muscles in gentle play. In doing this we are acting in concert with nature, who did not give this untiring inclination to active occupation •without some end. It is manifest that the progressive development of both the physical and mental powers is the object for which activity and curiosity were given to infancy and childhood : and whenever we circumscribe their range, we do but defeat nature's purposes. 7091. An infant of six months, if very vigorous, sometimes will begin to bend forward out of the nurse's arms, impelled by the desire to be on the ground, and on its feet. It is rather early to begin to walk, but vigour in the infant is the impelling cause, which it may not be well altogether to frustrate. If an infant be encouraged to put its feet thus early to the ground, it should at first only be allowed to do so for short intervals at a time : the nurse should endeavour to amuse her charge with other exercises, as soon as she thinks he has been long enough on his feet. If she can teach him to crawl she will give him a more beneficial mode of exercise ; one which brings the muscles into easy play, and removes the weight of the head from the spine. A weakly child, however, will not attempt any permanent exertions; it will be content with the ease it enjoys in the nurse's arms. In this case no forcing to activity should be allowed ; the infant may be laid now and then on its back, and on a carpet, but unless it attempts to crawl of its own accord, it will not be wise to urge it to do so. By slower degrees the muscular action must be obtained and invigorated, probably by adopting measures to improve the infant's general health. 7092. Children are sometimes allowed to sit long either on chairs or tables, or in little nursery swings : the pressure on the spine is then too continued, the muscles of the legs and thighs waste rather than increase, and sometimes these limbs become crooked in consequence. If children full asleep while fastened in their chairs, their heads bent for- ward, and their respiration is impeded by the position of their bodies.