465 :hap. Vm. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. settled at Sandwicli in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. This plant was so esteemed that ;Jie ladies wore the leaves as ornaments in their liead dresses. At present a pretty winter inrnameut is made from the carrot, by placing a slice from tlie top of the root in a shallow vessel of water, when the young and delicate leaves shoot out, and form an elegant .adiated tuft. 2474. The'carrot contains a larger proportion of sttgar than any of the com plants: in I 000 parts they have 95 parts of sugar, and 3 of starch ; this is about six times as much -s is found in potatoes; hence a large quantity of spirit can be distilled from them, 1 'bout half a pint from ten pounds, and they may be used instead of malt for beer. At- kempts have been made to obtain the sugar in a crystallised state, but without success. 2475. Their value in the culinary art is well known ; they are extremely useful in soups i:md stews. When eaten alone, they should be well boiled, and not too old, as they con- tain a large proportion of fibrous matter which does not digest very easily. Cattle are !xxtremely fond of them, and they form an excellent fattening food. 2476. M. Vilmorin of Paris has lately introduced two good varieties of the carrot, the ':!hort yellow, and the violet. The latter, which he obtained from Spain, grows to a large :ize, and is remarkably sweet. The carrot is cultivated by some fanners in their gar- Ir.ens for the purpose of colouring butter ; but this is the large red variety, or field carrot, rrhe orange carrot is the kind usually cultivated as a garden vegetable, and is of a more • elicate flavour. 2477. When a carrot is cut across, it will be seen to consist of two parts, the outer one .«ddish, and the inner more yellow ; the first answers to the bark of wood, and is the iaost pulpy and sweetest; the latter is the wood itself, and is more stringy. The greater he proportion of this external part in any variety, the more valuable it will be. The arrot may be kept in a succulent and fresh state for a long time, nothing more being . ecessary than to bui-y it in sand, and protect it from the frost. SuBSECT. 6 Parsnep (Pastinaca sativa, Linn.). 2478. This also is a native British plant, being often found growing by the road side ; ut it has not altered so much as the carrot. It is generally used with salt fish in Lent. 2479. It contains still more sugar than the carrot, and some persons dislike it on account ■fits peculiar sweet taste. Besides its use at the table, a pleasant beverage can be brewed .•om it with hops, as is practised in the north of Ireland : it will also furnish an ardent pirit and wine. In Scotland, parsneps and potatoes are beat up with butter into a dish for hildren, who are remarkably fond of it. They are excellent fried. 2480. The Guernsey parsnep appears to be an improved variety : it grows there to the ingth of four feet, and three or four inches in diameter. When parsneps are grown in a •oor soil, they lose much of the rank taste which they acquire in richer ground; and when aey are roasted, as they are in the north on peat ashes, they become sweet and agree- ble, and almost as farinaceous as potatoes. ScBSECT. 7.—Beet-root. • 2481. There are two varieties of the beet commonly cultivated; one having a large fleshy oot (B. vulgaris. Linn.) ; and the other producing large succulent leaves (^B. cicla), "hich we arrange among the spinaceous plants. 2482. Tlte common beet-root is of a fine red colour, and is originally a native of the sea oast of the south of Europe, growing wild all along the coast of the Mediterranean. It jas brought into this country in 1656 by Tradescant. It is chiefly employed in England s a garnish for salads and other dishes, on account of the beauty of its colour; and it is -Iso used as pickle. On the Continent it is sometimes boiled, sliced, and eaten cold with il and vinegar; when warm, boiled or baked, its taste is mawkish, and it is said to be not ery wholesome if eaten in any quantity. 248.3. A variety of beet-root called mangel wurzel is a coarser kind, grows to a very irge size, and is cultivated in the fields for cattle. An improved and smaller variety, 'hich has a red skin, and when cut through is white or veined with white, is extensively mployed in France for the manufacture of sugar. See " Sugar," Chap. XIII. Book VII. From their containing so much saccharine matter, they may be made available for the reduction of beer, or of spirits instead of malt. The French greatly esteem a sort ailed castelnandin, which is said to have the flavour of a nut. Shbsect. 8 Padiih (Raphanus salivus. Linn.). 2484. The radish is supposed to be a native of China, but has long been cultivated ere. They contain little else than water, woody fibre, and an acrid matter, which resides 1 the external part; they cannot therefore be very nutritive, but they may prove a useful H h