ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. 68 and hence -will appear hotter or colder than the latter, though their actual temperatures be the same. If, therefore, we were to depend upon the touch alone in ascertaining the temperatures of different bodies, we should fall into many errors. 304. The only accurate mode of measuring the degree of heat is by the use of Vie Oiermo- meter, which is a little instrument of indispensable necessity in many domestic processes. It consists of a glass tube, having a ball or bulb blown at one end, the bulb and part of the stem being filled with some fluid, the expansion and contraction of which by heat or cold, marks the change of temperature in any substance it is plunged into. A simple rod of metal expands and contracts as we have stated ; but the change is too small to be easily measured. Fluids expand much more than solids, and mercury is found to be the most convenient fluid for ordinary thermometers. The fluid in the bulb, when it expands, forces its way up the bore of the stem, which, being extremely fine, the rise or fall is easily perceived on the least change of buUi, and consequently of temperature : a scale is at- tached to the stem, for the purpose of measuring this. Two principal points are first marked on the scale ; that where the mercury sinks to when the bulb is plunged into ice, or water just freezing, which is called the freezing point: and that where the mercury would rise to when the instrument is put into boiling wSiteT, is called the boiling point. The first is marked 32°, and the latter is marked 212°, and the space between them is accurately divided into the parts between these two numbers ; farther, 32 such parts are placed below the freezing point, and the lowest is marked 0, and is termed Zero. This mode of dividing the scale is that which was first employed by Fahrenheit, and hence it is called Fahrenheit's scale, whicji is universally used in Britain. All the degrees of heat which we shall mention in this work are according to this scale. On the Continent, other scales are used, and a certain calculation is required to convert the degrees of these scales to that of Fahrenheit It sometimes happens that degrees of cold are to be measured; so intense as to freeze mercury, and to cause it to become solid : then a thermometer fiUed with spirits of wine must be employed, as this resists the most intense cold without freezing ; and when degrees of heat are so high as to cause mercury to boil, no thermometer can be employed, and recourse must be had to an instrument called a pyrometer, the best of which consists of bars of some metal difficult of fusion, the expansion of which measures the heat. CHAP. II. THE VARIOUS METHODS OF -WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. ^ 305. The various methods which have been put in practice for producing a proper tem- perature in the interior of our buildings, may be reduced to the following. 1. Warming by fires burning in open chimney fire-places. 2. By flues under the floors, or in the walls. 3. By close stoves of brick, earthenware, or metal, erected in the apartments. 4. By pipes kept full of steam. 5. By pipes full of hot water. 6. By streams of heated air sent into the apartments. 7. By combinations of these methods. We shall treat of these various modes separatel}', and we shall reserve our observations on their com- parative advantages until we have given a description of each. Sect. I. WARMING BY CHIMNEY FIRE-PLACES. 306. Fires in open chimney fire-places constituting the general method of warming apartments in Britain, it is necessary for those who wish to derive all the advantages ■which this method affords, to pay some attention to the subjects of combustion, of fuel, and the construction of chimneys. SuBSECT. 1. — Of Combustion. 307. The true nature of the combustion of fuel was never understood until it was illustrated by modern chemistry: before that time, all reasoning respecting it was very erroneous, and often absurd. It is only by learning a few chemical principles that just ideas can be entertained on this subject, and these are essential towards the proper management of artificial heat. 308. All the fuel for making fires is, or has been originally, of a vegetable or animal nature, and chiefly tlie former. We here refer the reader to that part of our work where we treat of the chemical analysis and composition of animal and vegetable substances, in Book VIF., "On Food," and where the elementary principles of which they consist are particularly described : indeed, we consider it quite necessary that this should be studied before the subject of combustion be entered upon. But to save him some trouble, and to