LAMPS. 15D Chap. IV. »L 8 Fig. 138. represents the usual form in -whicli Mr. Keir's lamp was made : but it is to be observed that the form might have been varied to infinity with the same construction, which will be understood from B, which is a section. The vase and its pedestal were both hollow, and two tubes, a and b, passed down through the middle, one of them only reaching to the top to supply an Argand burner. A heavy fluid, consisting of brine, or a strong solution of salt in water, so as to be three times the specific gi'avity of oil, was poured in at the side of the burner, marked c; this descends down through the tube b, into the lower vessel or pedestal d, and rises up the tube a, standing at the same altitude in both tubes. The oii is next poured in at e, and this faUing upon the surface of the salt liquor, and swimming on it, by its weight forces up the tube, 6, into the vase part: the oil and salt liquor balance each other, when no more oil can be poured in. Both fluids being now in a state of equilibrium, they will remain in that state until the oil is diminished by the consumption occasioned by burn- Fig. 138. jjjg fpjjg liquor in the vase then presses downwards, and com- municates an upward pressure to that below the oil in the pedestal, and causes it to rise in the tube a. As this pressure of the salt liquor is constant, it keeps the oil at the height of the burner, until it is all consumed. This lamp, therefore, requires no more attention than an ordinary lamp, and is merely to be filled with oil when necessary, the brine re- maining always the same. Several other lamps have been constructed on the same prin- ciple, as King's, Barber's, &c., though varied in appearance; but these are difficult to manage, except by those who understand the philosophy of them, and when in the least deranged, it is generally necessary to take them to the makers. They are therefore not calculated for general use, although some of them have a very elegant appearance as table lamps. Sect. XL Parker's fountain lamp. 709. Parker's fountain lamp is another of this kind, which has been reported on by the Academy of Science in Paris. A, Jig. 139., represents its external appearance ; but it is executed in various other patterns. Having no ring reservoir like the French lamp, it is obvious that there can be no shadow whatever. The external part, a, is in the foiTB of acolumn, usually bronzed or japanned, to imi- tate some dark coloured stone, as porphyry, basalt, &c. Within this is an internal cylinder, the top of which appears at b, and which is taken out when the lamp is to be filled with oil. B, fg. 139., represents a section of this lamp, the description of which we shall give in the words of the inventor. " Like Hiero's fountain, the interior of the lamp is divided into three distinct com- partments : an upper chamber or reservoir, .v; a middle chamber, y; and a lower chamber, z. Through the centre of the whole, there passes a tube, cd, open at its upper end, c, and opening at its lower end, d, into the chamber, z. e e are opposite sides of the burner tubes of the lamp, between which is placed the cotton wick,_/. g is the open space in the interior tube for the current of air that supplies the flame, and supports the combus- tion. If it is now recollected that the proper action of every lamp depends on the constant and uniform supply of oil to the burner, the action of this lamp will be clearly understood by attentively examining the inter- communications between the three chambers and this tube. The upper chamber, .r, communicates with the tube, cd, by a lateral aperture at /(. The tube, cd, opens into the lower chamber, z, by a lateral opening, d, at its lower extremity. The lower chamber, z, opens into ''3- the middle chamber, y, by an ascending passage, ik, the :ipper end of which is covered (but not closed) by the cap, /. The middle chamber, t/, s in direct communication with the burner tube ce by the passage vin: the lower end «i, )f which opens into the chamber, and its upper end, n, into the lower part of the burne' 1 ube. Now, to consider the action of this arrangement, it will be evident that, if a liquif IS oil, he poured into the tube cd at the opening o, it will endeavour to fill the chamber 7