245 (Chap. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. ;should exhibit graceful curves, aiFording easy backs to lean against with firm feet: and . in general should be too heavy to lift and move about easily. 1121. The seats of chairs are generally stuffed -with horse hair ; or are made of split I cane woven, or of rushes. In purchasing chairs it is necessary to ascertain whether the • stuffing is really done with horse hair, as Jiair of very inferior kinds is frequently sub- stituted, and sometimes it is mixed with wool or even straw. The framing is also some- : times done with unseasoned wood, and becomes loose and rickety on shrinking, by . drying. It is therefore generally bad policy to purchase those that are offered on very i low terms, as there is usually some imperfection. U22. In the cheapest kinds of chairs the legs are held together by cross bars and rails ; 1 but in the best chairs these are omitted, the stoutness of the materials and goodness of the ' workmanship permitting the legs to be sufiSciently strong without. It is the custom to ornament the front legs of chairs by mouldings, and sometimes 1 carving is added, whereas the black legs are plain. Some have objected to this differ- i ence, but it appears justified for several reasons. The front legs of mahogany chairs are I usually made straight, as they are found inconvenient when curved, and when straight I mouldings can be turned upon them by the lathe at a cheap rate : whereas the back legs, 1 being curved, that the chair may stand firmer, cannot easily be turned, and carving I on them would scarcely be seen : nor does there appear to be any reason why the front ; and back legs, being so different in shape, should be ornamented in the same manner, ! good taste requiring that labour shall not be thrown away. In light chairs for the draw- i ing room the front legs as well as the back ones are generally curved and decorated with I mouldings, but they are usually made of woods that can be bent after they are turned, • which mahogany does not admit of. 1123. It will be most convenient to class chairs according to the apartments in which they : are placed ; since this regulates not only their forms and style, but likewise the materials I of which they are made. pr Mii i,i|liiiiiilPiiiiiiiiiil|i Fig. 276. 1124. Parlour chairs are almost always made of mahogany, frequently French polished, with the seats stuffed with horse hair, and covered with morocco leather plain or tufted, red, green or blue, or with hair cloth. They should have little carving, should be of solid construction, and of forms agreeable to handle and move. The backs should not be too upright, but should be cur- ved, and slope back to afford an easy position to the body. Figs. 274, 275, 276, 277, 278. are some of the most approved forms now in use. They should rather be a little massy and heavy than light. Those which are ill made and cheap are apt to break down when leaned upon, an accident not unattended with serious danger. Some have the backs stuffed in part. F'g. 277.