120 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. Fig. 84. ments, were again introduced. Various modifications of this admirable invention have resulted from the endeavour to carry the improvement still farther, and still continue to exercise the talents of philosophers and mechanics. Inflammable air, or gas-lighting, has added immensely to our means of artificial illumination, particularly in streets, shops, and public buildings ; but all these modes have peculiar properties, vfhich require to be examined separately. Sect. II. NATCBE AND I/AWS OF LIGHT. 536. Although the artificial light produced by combustion Is in several respects dif- ferent from that of the sun, yet the general laws observed by both are the same ; and we shall be able to make the nature of the former best understood, by first briefly describing the chief properties of solar light, or that of day. rjST. It is not known with certainty what light realh/ is, but there are two prevailing opinions respecting it. By some it is supposed to consist of streams or rays of excessively minute particles, sent off in all directions from luminous bodies. Others imagine that there are no particles of this kind, but that luminous bodies have the property of causing vibrations or undulations in an ethereal fluid that fills all space ; and that thus an effect is produced on the eye analogous to that on the ear in sound, which is known to be the result of invisible undulations or waves formed in the air by sonorous bodies. But, whatever may be the fact (and this cannot at present be absolutely determined), either of these theories explain most of the phenomena of light: and, as the first-mentioned has greater simplicity in its favour, we may adopt it, on the present occasion, as the most convenient for our purpose. 538. The rays of light frorii the sun, proceed always in perfectly straight lines, parallel to each other, and never in curves of any kind. This may be seen distinctly by admitting them into a dark chamber through a hole in the window shatter, fig. 84. But the rays which proceed from a candle or lamp diverge, or spread out, as they proceed from the flame, ^jr. 85., though they also move only in straight lines. It is important to distinguish these facts in the consideration of light employed in illuminating. 539. When the rays of light, whether of the sun or of any other luminous body, strike upon a solid substance, a considerable portion is refected, or thrown off again, precisely in the same manner as when a boy's marble rebounds from a stone slab on which it is thrown: and this reflection obeys a constant law, to understand which is essential to our subject. Suppose the rays, a b, Jig. 86., come to the surface, cd, in the direction ab, making a certain angle, aba, with that surface, they will be reflected, or will bounce off from the surface in the direction bc, making the angle cbd exactly eqvial to the angle a be. The angle a 6 c is called the angle of inci- dence or striking : and the angle cbd is called the angle of refection; and the rule in all cases is, that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection. This is the foundation of all our reasoning on the operation of reflector." * of various kinds, which are so often used in the management of light: and a few illustrations will render this familiar to the reader. If a piece of looking glass, c d, fig. 87., be laid flat upon a table in a darkened room, and a ray of light. A, be admitted through a hole in the shutter so that it may strike on the mirror, it will be seen that the ray will be reflected to B, making the angle of incidence equal to that of reflection; and likewise that the several rays, both of incidence and reflection, do not diverge, but continue parallel. But the beam of light from a candle, C,fig. 88., diverges before it strikes the mirror; and, as each single ray makes the angle of in- cidence equal to that of reflection, it is evident that the rays must con- tinue to diverge when they are re- flected, as in the dotted lines. ^Vhen a candle, E, fig. 89., is put before a flat mirror, F G, on the wall of an apart- ment, the rays diverge, and, on striking the mirror, they are reflected, and con- Fig.iS. tinue to diverge, being thus diffused through the room. Although light is reflected by. all bodies on which it strikes, yet, if the surfaces .ire rough, a groat portion is absorbed and lost, and only a small part is reflected; but, if the surfaces are Pig.m. ///. ,////>'>".- Fig. 85. Fig. 86. Fig 87.