1136 STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Hook XXIV. his trot; he may have thrushes or corns ; but if he can go at a good slapping pace, and has wind at bottom, we can put up with him or prize him ; but the hackney, if he be worth having, must liave good fore legs and good hinder ones too. As safety is required in the hackney as well as speed, great pains are taken to breed him so as to have the fore parts high and well placed, whereas in the hunter the hind parts are rather of most importance. The hackney must be perfectly sound on his feet; even-tempered; no starter; quiet in whatever situation he may be placed; not heavy in hand; and never disposed to stumble. The Irish road horse is an improved variety of the English; and it is said that most of the common road horses used in England are of the Irish breed. Cobs are a thick compact variety of hackney breed, about fourteen hands, in great request for elderly and heavy persons to ride, or to drive in low phaetons. 6743. The large black horse is a noble animal that furnishes those grand teams we see in the coal waggons, and also in the flour and other heavy carts and waggons about London, where the immense weight of the animal's body assists his accompanying strength to move the heaviest loads. He is chiefly bred in the midland counties of England, chiefly in Lincolnshire ; but the present system of farming requiring horses of less bulk and more activity, better adapted for travelling, and more capable of enduring fatigue, he is confined chiefly to the above uses. This heavy breed is supposed to be derived from the old English black cart, improved by crossing with Dutch and Friesland mares. The largest of them are used as dray-horses. The next in size are employed as waggon-horses; and a smaller variety with more blood, constituting a considerable part of our cavalry, is likewise devoted to undertakers' work. 6744. The Cleveland or Yorhshire bays have long been celebrated as one of the best breeds in the island for draught; but they are said to have degenerated of late. They are reared to a great extent in Yorkshire, the farmers of which county are remarkable for their knowledge in everything that relates to horses. In activity and hardmess they have, perhaps, no superior. Some capital hunters have been produced from the mares and full-bred stallions ; but the chief object latterly has been to breed coach-horses and others for heavy draught, and these are of considerable strength. They appear to have been the origin of our best kind of heavy coach-horses. 6745. The Suffolk punch is a horse much esteemed for agricultural labour, being strong and active, but without any superiority of shape. 6746. 77ie Clydesdale horse has long been in repute in Scotland and the north of England, and, for the farmer, is probably equal to any other in Britain, being docile and steady. The origin of this breed is uncertain; and they have not got this name from having been bred only in Clydesdale and Lanark, for they are reared in many other parts of the west and south of Scotland. They are rather larger than the Sufiblk punches, and their colour is black, brown, or grey, with a white spot on the forehead. They are remarkably true pullers, and are seldom restive. 6747. The coach horse cannot be called a particular breed : but the origin of the superior kind is the Cleveland bay, confined principally to Yorkshire and Durham, but now diffi- cult to meet with in either county. The coach horse most in repute, with his arched crest and high action, is the produce of a Cleveland mare, and a three-fourth or thorough- bred horse of sufficient substance and height. From the thorough-bred of sufficient height but not of so much substance, we obtain the four-in-hand and superior curricle horse. From the half-bred we derive the common carriage horse and the poster. Yorkshire is considered as the chief breeding county in England for coach horses, hunters, and hackneys. The English coach horse is now very different from what he was fifty years ago. We no longer see those clumsy black family horses, over fat, straining at first starting, yet scarcely equal to six miles an hour, and knocking up with one day's hard work. Rapid travelling is now so much the fashion, that the modern coach horse is, with improved strength and action, frequently like tall, strong, overgrown hunters. Yet, though their speed is increased, they still have not the endurance that could be wished, and a pair of poor post horses will often beat them at the end of the second day. It is remarked that no country produces finer horses than England, yet in no other country is there such a destruction of the animal from the rage for fast travelling. 6748. Galloways. — The true Galloway is a beautiful variety of horse, so called from that province in Scotland, from which it came originally. It is a bright bay or brown, with black legs : but this breed has now become rare, from being neglected, on account of its unfitness for agriculture. The term Galloway, however, is now applied to any horse of the same size, which is between that of the pony and the pack, and such horses are much in request for drawing low chaises, for which the original breed is very valu- able, being flat and very sure-footed. 6749. Ponies are the smallest of our breeds, not above thirteen hands, and they vary in diff'erent districts. The Welsh pony is a beautiful little animal, will live on almost any fare, and is never tired out. The Highland horses are very similar, being small, but remarkably hardy and enduring j and as they appear to be the same with those of