1002 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. Willie tliey are extern ed to beat the back part or skin very gently with a slender cane or stick; after which I M "/"^'""^ """^^".^ " ""'"^ ••"'■'P"^'''° '^''"s 'he moths that may have obtained access to the furs are expelled, together with any eggs or larva; that may have been deposited. The fuM also by this d;illy cxposiire to the air, are prevented from contracting any disagreeable musty smell, and are Kept clean and sweet. To this we may add, tliat immediately on leaving them off as a wear, thcv should be put into boxes or drawers so perfectly tight, that no moths can have access to them, in which case they will be periectly safe ; for it is a vulgar error to suppose that moths or any other insects can come without being bred by others, rhe phice where they are kept should be perfectly dry, and they should be aired frequentl?, to pr^ vent mildew Bags of brown paper, or strong linen, perfectly well closed, or even for valuable furs tin cases or boxes, will keep them from moths. Some recommend washing the skin with a solution of corrosive subli- mate, in spirits of wine ; but as this is a strong poison, being a preparation of mercury, its use may be hazard- ous, although It IS employed successfully to keep away insects in collections of butterflies, and other objects of natural history. CHAP. X. BLEACHING. 5907- Bi/ bleaching in general is understood the freeing cloths of their natural brown or otherwise coloured tinge, and rendering them perfectly -white after coming out of the ■weaver's hands. Also linen, and other articles already in use, -when they have lost much of their original whiteness, and become of a bad colour, -are sometimes restored to their purity by bleaching. Sect. I. BLEACHING OF LINEN. 5908. The most ancient mode of performing this process, and indeed the only one for- merly known, consisted in exposing the linen cloth on the grass, where it was subjected to the combined action of frequent wetting, of the air, and the rays of the sun. 5909. Gi-ass-bleacliing, that is, bleaching by the influence of water, air, and sunshine, is now seldom practised in regular bleach-fields, having been superseded by an improved method, to be afterwards described ; but it is used in some parts, and indeed is the most common in many civilised countries. It is supposed to be the least injurious to the tex- ture of cloth ; and it is that which at present we are most interested in explaining. The details of the process vary in some respects, according to the nature of the cloth to be bleached; and we shall first describe the mode of bleaching linen. 5910. Linen, as it comes from the loom, is charged with the weaver's dressing, which is a paste of flour and water brushed into the yarn, to render the stretching of the warp more easy. To discharge this paste, the web must be steeped in cold water for forty-eight hours, till the paste is decomposed by fermentation, which does not extend to the Unen itself. Boiling the linen in water will not answer, since paste is not soluble in boiling water. When the linen is well washed and rinsed after this, it is of a greyish-white colour, although the fibres of which it is composed are naturally very white. To separate the matter that discolours the linen is properly the business of bleaching. This colour- ing matter i* of a resinous nature, insoluble in water, and, from its intimate union or dis- semination through the very fibres of the flax, is diflicult of separation, even by those substances which have a solvent power over it. Alkaline leys, or solutions of alkali, ren- dered caustic, have the property of dissolving resins; hence they have been employed as menstrua for this purpose, but alone they are not sufficient. What appears to be a single ultimate fibre of flax in grey linen is composed of a bundle of minute filaments, closely cemented or agglutinated together by the resinous matter. By the application of the ley the potash first acts only upon the resin of the external coating of filaments, hy which means they are loosened or separated, and exposed to the further action of the air; a second boiling in the ley opens another layer, and thus successively, layer after layer, until the whole is divided or opened to the centre. Were the alkaline solution sufficiently strong to force its way at once to the centre, it would act upon the filaments themselves, and destroy the texture of the cloth. The ley, called the " bowking or bucking," is pre- pared by dissolving potash in soft water, to which some soap is added. This liquor is lieated to about 100°, and poured upon the linen. After the cloth is well down in the ley, it is drawn off, heated a little higher, and again poured upon the cloth. 'This operation is repeated at intervals, allowing the ley to remain longer each successive time, and moderately increasing the heat for five or six hours. The cloth is then left steeping for three or four hours, when it is taken out and well rinsed. But each filament, after the alkaline process, retains a certain impregnation of colouring matter so intimately united as to resist the further action of it. This is removed by the slow and gradual influence of the atmosphere and the rays of the sun, which together decompose it. It is necessary, therefore, to proceed in the following manner. The linen is carried to the field, where it is spread upon the grass, and secured by pins ; water is sprinkled/on it so as not to allow it to become dry for some hours. After it has lain about half a day,