BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL 708 hrane, called the parchment. Tiie trees are raised from seed, and are afterwards planted out at regular distances. They flourish best, and produce berries smaller and of a finer flavour, in light dry soils, than in those •which are rich and moist, although in the latter they grow to a large size, and give a greater quantity of coffee. They begin bearing when they are two years old ; and the aspect of a coffee plantation is vcjy interesting during the time of flowering. lu a single night the blossoms expand in such profusion as to resemble the effects of a snow storm, but do not last longer that a very few days. The berries are known to be ripe when they assume a dark red colour, and will drop from the trees if not gathered immediately. The Arabians suffer them to fall upon cloths placed for their reception ; but in the West Indies, the negroes are set to gather them. 4053. To prepare the coffee leans, the berries are exposed to the sun for a few days that the pulp may ferment, and throw off a strong acidulous moisture. They are then gradually di'ied for about three weeks, and put into a mill to separate the husks from the seed. Some omit the fermentation, and separate the husks as soon as the seeds are gathered, by passing them under heavy rollers. The parchment is taken off by another mill, and after being winnowed to separate the chaff, the seeds, when quite dry, are ready. It is thought by some that the flavour of the coffee would be better preserved if it were sent home not divested of its coverings ; in the West Indies they keep it in this manner, and beat it out only as it is wanted. 4054. The best coffee is the Arabian; this is most extensively cultivated in the province of Yemen, and chiefly in the districts of Aden and Mocha, whence the name of oui- Mocha coffee. This superiority is attributed partly to the difference of soil and climate, and partly to culture. Although Arabia is very hot in the plains, it possesses mountains where the air is mild, and the coffee is raised upon their slopes in a soil that is rocky and dry, but so situated as to admit of irrigation ; though the berries are small, they have seeds of a very delicate flavour. In our colonies, coffee is planted in a richer soil, by which the berries are of larger size, but are comparatively insipid. In a deep rich soil each tree will yield from twelve to sixteen ounces of coffee ; but upon a soil the most favourable for the best kind, it will not yield above half that weight. In Arabia, where the climate is drier, they also cure the berry in a different mode. Mocha coffee may be known by its having a smaller and rounder bean than any other, and likewise a more agreeable smell and taste. 4055. Next in reputation and quality is the Java and Ceylon coffee, and then the coffees of Bourbon and Martinique ; also that of Berbice, a district of the colony of British Guiana. The Jamaica and St. Domingo coffees are less esteemed; the two extremities of the beans from these are pointed. Sect. IIL analysis of coffee. 4056. Coffee has been analysed by various chemists, but the results of their analyses are far from being uniform. Raw coffee contains a yellowish-brown transparent extract, to which the name of Caffeine has been given, and which constitutes the characteristic por- tion of coffee ; coffee contains also a resinous matter, an oil or fatty substance, an aromatic principle, and some tannin and gallic acid. Six pounds of coffee give ninety grains of caffeine, a proximate principle remarkable for containing 21-54 per cent, of nitrogen, which is a larger quantity than is found in most other vegetables ; it is a crystaUisable salt of a bitter taste, producing an exhilarating effect when taken in four or five grains, such as is felt when good coffee is drunk. It was first discovered by Runge in 1S20, and it is considered by Liebig as nearly identical, if not quite so, with Theine, a principle existing in tea. See " Tea." Sect. IV. ROASTING AND GRINDING COFFEE. 4057. It appears that a considerable change takes place in the arrangement of the con- stituents of coffee by the application of heat in roasting it. Independently of one of the objects of roasting, namely, that of destroying its toughness, and rendering it easily ground, its tannin and other principles are rendered partly soluble in water ; and it is to the tannin that the brown colour of the decoction of coffee is owing. An aromatic flavour is likewise developed during torrefaction, which is not perceived in the raw berry, and which is not produced in the greatest perfection until the heat has arrived at a certain degree of temperature ; but if the heat be increased beyond this, the flavour is again dis- sipated, and little remains but a bitter and astringent matter with carbon. 4058. The roasting of .coffee in the best manner requires great nicely, and much of the qualities of the beverage depends upon the operation. It is essential that the process