151 CllAP. IV. LAMPS. reservoir of oil; otherwise the air in the upper part of the reservoir being much more expansible than the oil, it -n ould cause the latter to flow over: this inconvenience is apt to occur in consequence of the air being expanded in a wai-m room. 694. In the oriyinal construction of Aryand's lamp there was an imperfection in the glass chimney, which has been removed by subsequent improvements. The glass was at first made simplj' cylindrical, and then the air within rose quite vertically between it and the flame striking upon it imperfectly : on which account the lamps could burn only the best oil. But by a French alteration of the shape of the glass, made some years ago, the lamp burns with a clearer light. Instead of being of equal width throughout, it is contracted at the level of the flame, as at c,fig. 122., by which the current of ascending air is made to turn out of its course when it arrives at this shoulder, and is propelled against the top of the flame just where the smoke is beginning to part, which in consequence is destroj-^ed almost entirely; and this has been still farther improved upon by the contrivance called " oxydators," and a contraction of the glasses, which will be described afterwards. 695. a, fig. 124., represents a two-light Argand's lamp for the table, b is one for the side- board or similar situations, c is one with a telescopic or sliding stem, to rSise or lower the light, which is useful in some cases, particularly for reading or writing: but such a light should always be used with a shade to defend the eyes from the strong glare, rf is a bracket lamp for fixing to the wall. 696. Fig. 125. e is a two-light suspended Argand lamp, of the cheapest kind, yis a sus- pended lamp of a more elegant kind, with a cut glass basin, to prevent accident from the Fig. 123. )il dropping: it has also moon.^, or ground glass shades, over the lights, g is a four-light amp with a basin of plate glass below, h is one of tliose called by the manufacturers boat umps, from the arms being concealed by ornamental brass work having a slight re- lemblancc to a boat, with tliree or four liglits. In these lamps, although only two chains re represented, there must be tliree or four chains, i is a large lamp with the chains very ■rnamental, and the branches concealed b)- very rich brass work. 697. Shades of ground glass are not only agreeable in concealing the flame, and pre- entmg the disagreeable dazzling effect of a strong light, but they appear to increase L 4