Book VIII. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 690 SuBSECT. 14. — Legal Enactments respecting Spirits. 3929. lite man ufaclure of spirits is under the surveillance of the Excise. — The regulations are very complicated, and therefore every one carrying on any part of the trade should have a copy of the act of parliament describing them in his possession. The duty on British spirits at present is 7a'. 6d. per gallon. 3930. All pnrsons, not being Uccnsotl distillers, rectifiers, or compounders, li.iving more than eighty gallons of .spirits in their possession, shall be deemed dealers in spirits, and subject to the survey of the olliccrs of the Excise, and to all the regulations, penalties, &e. to which such persons are liable. Dealers in British spirits are prohibited sollhig or having in their possession any plain British spirits, except spirits of wine, of .any strength exceeding thf strength of twenty-five per cent, above hydrometer, or of any strength below seventeen per cent, imder hydrometer proof; or any compound spirits, except shrub, of any greater strength than seventeen per cent, under hydrometer proof. No retailer of spirits, or any other person licensed or unlicensed, sbaii sell or send nut of his stock or custody any quantity of sjiirits exceedmg one gallon, unless the same lie accompanied with a true and Lawful permit, under pain of forfeiting 200/. Brandy and rum, or any other foreign spirits, are scizable if sold by the dealer, or found in his possession under a certain strength, which is seventeen below proof by the hydrometer. But notwithstanding this, sugar is often added, w hich prevents the hydrometer showing its want of strength. SuBSECT. 15. — Various Spirituous Liquors prepared in different Countries. 39.31. Although it may not appear necessarily to belong to the subject of domestic economy to describe the spirituous liquors made in distant countries, yet some aCcotmt of the most remarkable of them may be useful, as they are frequently mentioned. 3932. In Europe, besides those which we have described, there are some other spirituous liquors less known. In Dalmatia, a spirit is distilled from the marc of grapes and ai'omatic herbs called Rakia. In Zara the famous Maraschino is made from cherries. In Dantzic, and many parts of German)', an agreeable compound spirit called Rosolio is made from the juice of the plant called Ros salis, brandy, sugar, or honey, cinnamon and cloves, nutmegs, and other ingredients distilled. In Germany, they make also a liquor named Trostcr, from the marc of grapes fermented with groimd rye or barley. Goldwasscr is a spirituous liquor made from grain rectified upon anise seeds, cinnamon, and other spices ; it derives its name from their keeping bits of gold leaf floating in it. In Bruns- wick, Mum is made from fermented wheaten malt and oatmeal, with fir rind, tops of fir and beech, and a variety of herbs. In Russia, they make Braga from oatmeal and hops fermented, and also Mead from honey and beer lees ; their Qnass is from barley-malt, rye-malt, and oatmeal, fermented and made acidulous. In Norway, the climate is too cold for the production of grain in sufficient quantity to answer the purposes of distillation; but there the inhabitants make a beverage from the fermented juice of the birch-tree, which grows in immense forests; among the better class, wine and lemons are used in the making of this liquor. Potatoes are likewise used in Norway for distillation. The Snaps of Denmark and Holstein is distilled from rye and barley. In Tiu-key, wine and spirits being forbidden by the laws of Moliammed, sherbet is made from sugar, lemon- juice, apricots or plums, and flavoured with some sweet flowers. 3933. America.—Besides the usual beverages of Europe, a liquor called Pulque is made Mexico and Peru from the juice of Agave or American aloe. By distilling the Pulque a very strong spirit is obtained called Aquardiente de Magny. They likewise ferment a liquor from maize ; and this is said to have been done prior to the discovery of America by the Europeans. In Brazil they prepare an intoxicating spirit called Grape, from sugar, water, and the leaves of the Akaya tree. A beer called Chica is made by the Indians, and also one from the roots of the Manioc or Yucca. The Batata root affords the Vintro da Batatas. In North America they make a great deal of what they call brandy from peaches. In the West Indies the negroes prepare a kind of beer from the Cassava which furnishes the tapioca. 3934. Asia.—The arrack of India has been already described. In Nepaul, Phaur is dis- tilled from wheat or rice, and Sihee from the grape. In Afghanistan a spirit is obtained by fermenting sheep's milk. In Persia, a strong spirituous liquor is distilled from peaches fermented; and although the Mohammedan religion forbids the use of wine, and that sherbet is the general beverage, yet several kinds of wine are made by Jews, and drank privately. In Japan, Birmah, Siam, and some of the eastern islands, arrack is made in abundance. In Kamtschatka, a spii'it is made from a species of sweet grass, which grows six feet high, with a jointed hollow stalk containing a great deal of sugar. 3035. The Chinese make beer from barley and wheat, called Tar-a-s-un, and also use hops to preserve it. Beer is also made there from rice, in which they sometimes infuse tlie seeds of thorn apple {Datura Stramonium), to add to its narcotic power. They also make vast quantities of arrack from rice, but use it in general with great moderation. The cultivation of the vine has been practised in China from time immemorial: but in 1373 the Emperor Tay-tsu ordered most of the vines to be rooted out ; and they were beginning anain to be cultivated when Lord Macartney visited the country. They like- wise ferment palm-juice into a kind of wine, called Cha. Although they manufacture much sugar, they have not yet learnt the art of making rum fi-om the refuse.