Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 172 lamp. This stand may be detached when required, by having one cock at the service pipe, and another at the stand. These are found useful for the desk in ofiSces or other phices lighted with gas. 705. The (JUS meter is an instrument intended to measure the quantity of gas that passes through it. It is usual for persons to pay for gas in proportion to the quantity they con- sume, wliich is estimated by means of this apparatus. It is, perhaps, the best mode of -supplying the gas, where any considerable quantity is consumed, because then each person can burn it when he pleases, as much as he pleases, and can distribute in any kind of light that he may find convenient, paying for no more than he actually consumes. The com- panies generally supply the meters, and reserve to themselves the right of examining them from time to time. This practice prevents those disputes which arise out of the system of contracting for lights to burn a certain number of hours ; thus removing on the part of the consumer every temptation to defraud or deceive the company, and on the part of the company any incentive to doubt the honesty of its customers. Many parts of private dwellings may be lighted with coal gas, independently of the principal apart- ments, as the offices, halls, passages, &c., and one great advantage of a gas meter is, that lights may be multiplied by using small lights in certain parts. If brought into the nur- sery or bedrooms, it may be employed on occasions for boiling food, or for keeping it warm, &c. 76G. Other substances besides coal have beat employed for obtaining gas light, as oil, fats, rosin, tar, ^c. Indeed, any substance containing much of these matters will do, and some of them, particularly oil and rosin, afford a whiter and more beautiful light than coal, having more carbon in them ; and their flame is likewise free from sulphuretted hydrogen, consequently fit to be used in apartments, resembling the flame of wax lights ; but the gas from coal is so much cheaper, and now so well purified, that oil and rosin are very little used in gas lighting. They would probably, however, be the best substances to employ where the gas is to be made in a private establishment. 767. Oil gas was made by a very simple apparatus for this purpose, constructed some years ago by Mr. John Taylor. The materials were not put into metal retorts to be heated alone in the manner of coal; if they were, they would distil over in the state of volatile oils, and very little gas would be generated. It becomes necessary, therefore, to fill the retorts with pieces of brick or coke, and to keep them in ignition while the oil, &c. is slowly introduced drop by drop into their interior. The oil then coming into contact with the heated bricks is instantly decomposed into combustible gas. Oil affords, at a lively red heat, a gas which contains, in 100 measures, 19 of olefiant gas, 32-4 of carbu- retted hydrogen, 12-2 of carbonic oxide gas, 32-4 of hydrogen, 0-4 of azote: the specific gravity only 0'590. The crudest and cheapest oil that can be bought will do, even blubber and sediment of whale oil ; and the iUuminating power of oil gas is said to be nearly twice that of coal gas. 768. Itosin gas is equally good, and has been successfully employed in some parts of France where good coal is scarce; but the price of this material in England, compared with that of coal, renders its use disadvantageous. 769. Coal gas, impregnated ivith the vapour of coal naphtha, is a late invention by Mr. Lowe, which affords a light more brilliant than coal gas alone, and is said to effect a saving of from 1.5 to 20 per cent. For this purpose, the coal gas is either passed through pieces of pumice or sponge saturated with naphtha, or over the surfaces of shallow vessels filled with this liquid. 770. The advantages of gas light ave: its cheapness, compared with any other, when much light is required ; the vast saving of the time and labour that would be necessary for cleaning and trimming lamps, or in cleaning candlesticks and snuffmg caudles, together ■with the constant attendance required for these operations. Gas lights are perfectly cleanly, and are not accompanied with the dropping of grease and spilling of oil which accompany the other modes of lighting. They may likewise be easily conveyed by pipes to situations where it would be dilficidt to fix any other lights. When the gas is managed in the best way, and particularly oil gas, the light is extremely agreeable, and the smoke which always proceeds from candles is avoided. The advantage of gas in street lighting is too well known to require comment. But to counterbalance these advantages, the want, of portability prevents its competition with caudles for the ordinary purposes of domestic economy. 771. Ill comparing the price of the different lights, it appears, that if a certam quantity of light given by tallow candles costs Is., an equal quantity of light from an Argand's lamp ■will be fijrf., and from coal gas ^^d. 772. Gas is found to lie most economical, as well as most convenient, for lighting streets and public places, wliere much light is wanted, and the generation of foul air is of little con- sequence ; but though it is much employed in lighting rooms for large assemblies, it is particularly necessary that proper means of ventilation- should be provided, which m many cases is not easily effected.