1034 Book XIX. SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. strop by spreading it with a knife before the fire. A cylindrical strop has lately come into use, and appears to be an improvement, as there are no edges. There is also a proper mode of using the razor, which is not intended to cut as a direct cutting instrument by a movement similar to scraping, but by the same movement as a mower uses in cutting hay with the scythe. 6125. Setting a razor, or giving it a keen edge, after having been dulled by use, and when the strop is found insufficient, is generally performed on a stone called a hone; but the exquisite edge given by cutlers can rarely be produced by those persons who are not in the habit of setting, from a want of skill and sleight of hand, which long and constant practice only can give in perfection. Various contrivances have teen made to assist the inexperienced operator. 6126. A hone has been invented by Mr. Fayrer of Penionville, which is or a novel kind. It consists of a plate of brass about an inch wide, on which is put oil and some fine powder of oil-stone, or of water of Ayistone. The hone is swung on pivots, in consequence of which the surface always applies itself evenly along the edge of the razor, in whatever direction the pressure of the hand is made that holds tlie tool. 6127. The fot/ouiin^ contrivance fur sharpening razors is given in the Journal of the Royal Institution by Mr. Kniglit, president of the Horticultural Society: — " The instrument consists of a cylindrical bar of cast steel, three inches long without its handle, and about one-third of an incli in diameter. It is rendered as smooth !is it can readily be made with sand, or, more properly, glass paper, applied longitudinally, and it is then made perfectly hard. Before ic is used, it must be well cleaned, but not brightly polished, and its surface must be smeared over with a mixture of oil ,ind the charcoal of wheat straw, which necessarily con- tains much siliceous earth in a very finely-reduced state. In setting a razor (observes Mr. K.), it is my practice to bring its edge (which must not have been previously rounded by the oper.ition of a strop) into contact with the surface of the bar at a greater or less, but always at a very acute angle, by raising the back of the razor more or less, proportionate to the strength which I wish to give to the edge ; and I move the razor in a succession of small circles from heel to point, and back again, without any more pressure than the weight of the blade gives till my object is attained. If the razor has been properly ground and prepared, a very fine edge will be given in a few seconds ; and it may be renewed again, during a very long period, wholly l)y the same means. I have had the same razor, by way of experiment, in constant use during more than two years and a half, and no visible portion of its metal has within that period been worn away, though the edge has remained as fine as I conceive possible, and 1 have never at any one time spent a quarter of a nihiute in setting it. The excessive smoothness of the edge of razors thus set led me to fear that it would be indolent, comparatively with the serrated edge given by the strop; but this has not in any degree occurred, and therefore I conceive it to be of a kind admirably adapted for surgical purposes, particularly as any degree of strength may be given with great precision. Before using a razor after it has been set, I simply cle.in it on the palm of my hand, and w.arra it by dipping it into warm water ; but I think the instru- ment recommended operates best when the temperature of the blade has been previously raised by the aid of warm water." The handles of the best razors are made of ivory. The greatest number of common razors have their handles of horn dyed black and pressed ; others are mottled to imitate tortoise-shell. CHAP. vn. SOAPS FOK THE SKIN. 6128. For the general theory of the action of soap, and of the manufacture of the common kinds, we refer the reader to Book XXII. on " the Laundry." But it will be necessary here, in describing those kinds that are used for cleansing the skin, to point out the way in which that effect is produced; and for this purpose we cannot avoid repeating some facts that we have already mentioned. The union of alkali and oil forms soap; and though oil is not soluble in or miscible with water, soap is perfectly so. The skin is covered with an infinity of very minute pores, through which exudes constantly a per- spirable matter, partly of an oily nature, and which keeps it in a soft state. To this matter, the dusty particles with which we are continually coming in contact adhere, and fiD up the pores of the skin, or cover it partly with a coat of dirt. To remove this oily or greasy matter, we require only to add to it alkali, which would form a soap ; and as we stated soap to be soluble, this newly-formed soap on the skin might be easily removed with the dirt adhering to it by washing with water alone. But alkali by itself, such as pearlash or soda, woiild, by its causticity, injure the texture of the skin, and if employed frequently would produce disease, such as red excoriations, blotches, and eruptions. But in common soap the greater part of the alkali is already combined with oil, and therefore the only portion of it that can act upon the skin in the way we have described is that which the soap may possess more than is sufficient to neutralise the oil in it. From this it is evident, that the more alkali soap has the stronger it wiU be, or the more detergent, but then also it will be the most apt to injure the skin. It is of some importance, therefore, with a Anew to keep the hands in good order, that the proper sort of soap should be used. The hands of some persons are apt to be too dry, and require softening by the use of ointments or pastes, while others have their hands too moist. For these it is requisite to use soaps of different qualities. For the toilet soaps, some perfume is generally added ; they are also frequently coloured in various ways. ,■ -i j „j„ 6129 T/ie moxt beautiful soap is the fine white soap prepared from olive oil and soda, extracted from the best barilla, which is manufactured largely in the countries ^j^hfre the olive grows, particularly the south of France, for which MarseiUes is the most celebrated;