( CUAP. V. 987 SILK FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. I of which contain the desired pattern, which on one cylinder is raised and on the other jsnnk, so that the eminences of the one coincide with the depressions in the other. I Ribands are frequently embossed in this manner. 5804. Watering silk is producing an unequal and peculiar wavy appearance by placing t together, lengthwise, one on the other, two pieces of silk, and passing them thus circum- .-stanced, between two cylindrical metal rollers, one of which is made hollow for the pur- I pose of containing a heated iron in its cavity. The two surfaces of the silk not absolutely i coinciding, one part will be subjected to more pressure than another, which gives rise to t the peculiar appearance. 5805. To render silk thread fit to receive the dye, and also to make it soft and glossy, after ■ the operation of twisting or throwing, it requires to be boiled in soap and water to dis- c charge the gum. After the boiling, it is washed in clear water to discharge the soap, and ^when dried, will he found to have lost about one-fourth of its weight, at the same time I the silk has acquired that soft texture and glossiness, which are the principal beauties of -silk. In the first instance the gum gave the only adherence of the fibre to form a thread, tbut by the twisting the fibres are firmly united, and no longer require any cement. It is ;!also necessary, in order to give a fine dye to the silk, that the gum should be removed, ! because it would prevent the entrance of the dyeing matter to the centre of the thread, and ; thus impair the beauty of the colour. If the silk was thus boiled before the twisting, ! nothing but a fine entangled down or wool would be obtained, and it would require sspinning by a similar process to that of cotton, before a thread could be obtained. 5806. One pound of reeled silk may be converted into sixteen yards of Gros de Naples, aand is produced from twelve pounds of cocoons, the produce of the laboui's of 2800 vworms, which have consumed 152 pounds of mulberry leaves. Sect. V. CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF SILK. 5807. TTte chemical properties of silk are these:—The gum with which the raw silk is rcoated is soluble in hot water, and the colouring matter, which is a kind of resin, may be idissolved by digestion in alcohol; the silk itself would then be white. This varnish .altogether amounts to about 23 per cent, of the raw material. The remaining fibrous rmatter has not been well examined by chemists. Caustic alkalis corrode and dissolve it. jSilk is of a very imperishable nature, and has resisted the ordinary causes of putrefaction nvhen buried in a grave. It is a powerful electric, or is capable of being excited so as t to give out sparks of electricity when rubbed; it is likewise a non-conductor of electricity, iand is therefore always employed in electrical machines. The eletricity of silk stockings Twhen pulled off have frequently excited surprise. Sect. VI. SILK OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 5808. Chinese silks.—A large quantity of both raw and wrought silks is annually imported from China. In 1829, it appears from the Custom-house 600,000 poupds weight of rraw China silk came into this country. The silkworm in China is reared in the gi-eatest '.quantity in the neighbourhood of Nankin, the more southern provinces being unfavourable ■ to its growth. Sir George Staunton tells us, that in the city of Han-choo-foo, a great : number of women are employed in extensive factories in the fabrication of flowered and •embroidered satins. China silk excels every kind in its brilliant whiteness, the cause of iwhich is not yet understood here. 5809. Tlie silks brought from Italy are partly raw and partly wrought. Wrought silks come from Piedmont, Novi, Bergamo, and Bologna, but a part of the silk we have !from Italy is thrown. The raw silk of Piedmont is superior to that of France, which is lattributed to certain regulations respecting uniformity in the mode of reeling it, which have been imposed by the government of the country at an early period of the silk culti- vation ; whereas in France every farmer is permitted to reel as he pleases; the consequence of which is that there is no uniformity among the silks of different cultivators. It has been generally thought that there are some qualities in Italian thrown silk that rendered it superior to our own for certain purposes; but this idea appears not to be very correct ■and some of our manufacturers use English thrown silk for all kinds of goods. 5810. French silks. — France possesses a great advantage in her climate of being able to rear the silkworm, and thus obtain native silk in her southern provinces, not however in sufficient abundance to supply all her manufactories. Lyons, the great silk manufacturing city of France, from whence the principal merchants of Paris obtain their silks, furnishes very little from French materials. Its prosperity has sufiTered much from political revo- idutions, but it still maintains its superiority over other places, particularly for the richest