COTTON FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. 977 Chap. IV. improved, and worked by steam. Some of these machines, now at work in Manchester, turn from 1100 to 2200 spindles. Mules have even been made, called self-acting viules, that perform their work without the aid of a single spinner, and the only manual labour em- ployed in them is that of children who join the broken threads. Mule-spinning is the least laborious, owing to the slowness with which the machinery moves in making fine threads. A spinner manages two of them at a time ; the pair has from 500 to 2000 spindles. 5754. Another machine for spinning is abo now used, called a throstle, and the qualities of the yam or thread made by the mule and throstle are somewhat different. The mule is generally used for all numbers to thirty, throstles being now seldom used to spin so high as forty. The mule yarn is of a soft and downy nature, and is employed for the weft in coarse goods, and for both warp and weft in finer fabrics. The yarn made by the throstle is smooth and wirey, and is known by the name of water twist, from having been first produced by the water-frame. It is used for the warps in heavy cloths, such as fustians, cords, or for making sewing thread. This kind of thread is made with scarcely any manual labour ; a large quantity is exported. By means of these various machines several sorts of thread are manufactured, adapted to different purposes; some factories make only one kind, and others several, besides weaving them by power-looms. We may observe that, besides the machines and processes we have mentioned, which are the principal ones, there are a great many others of inferior importance, the description of which would have rendered the leading ideas less easily conceived, and which we have purposely omitted. 5755. It is usual to describe the degree of fineness of cotton yarn or thread by a certain number, and the method is this: The yarn is made into hanks, each containing 840 yards of yarn, and according to the number of such hanks which it will require to weigh a pound, so is the number of the yarn ; thus No. 40. denotes a yarn of which 40 hanks weigh a pound. Ko. 40. may be considered as the staple of cotton yarn. Sect. IV. THE WEAVING OF COTTON. 5756. For the general principle of weaving cotton cloth, whether plain, twilled, or figured, we refer to Sect. III. on " Weaving." At first the common loom was made use of; but the spirit of improvement, which had carried spinning to so high a degree of perfection, was next directed to the weaving department. 5757. In 1785 the Rev. Dr. Edmund Cartwright first invented a loom that was worked by mechanical power instead of the hand, called a power-loom ; and although his was im- perfect, it was the parent of others which are improvements, and which are now in use. Horrock's loom is that which is now generally employed; it is constructed entirely of iron, and is a neat, compact, simple machine, moving with great rapidity, and occupying so little space, that several hundreds may be worked in a single room of a large factory. It appears that the power-loom has several advantages over the hand-loom for some fabrics, not only producing them with greater expedition and at a cheaper rate, but of better quality, the regularity of the machinery being commanded with more certainty than that of human force. But it is chiefly in making cottons and other strong fabrics that they can be used; fine muslins are yet made mostly by hand-looms. At present there are in England and Scotland above 100,000 power-looms; and it is supposed that there is an equal number, if not greater, of cotton hand-looms. 5758. But, notwithstanding the ingenuity of these several inventions in the manufacture of cotton, described above, of which the principal is undoubtedly the spinning machine of Arkwright, yet it must be admitted that we are indebted to the steam-engine for the vast extension to which the cotton manufacture has arrived, being the moving power of all its machinery. 5759. The printing of cottons should naturally be next described; but as that depends upon the art of dyeing and cannot be explained without reference to the latter, we shall reserve the account of calico-printing until we have treated of " Dyeing " in general. Sect. V. QnALITIES OF GOOD COTTON WOOL. 7f)0. These are fineness, length of fibre, strength, softness and equality of the filaments, and freedom from knots and impurities. The more remarkable cotton is for these quali- ties, and the less waste it suffers in spinning, the higher price it fetches. To judge of its quality, a specimen is pressed and drawn through the fingers, by which its fineness and length may be estimated. The cotton broker and spinner acquire by practice a remarkable delicacy of tact in this way, so that they can pronounce upon the quality though in the