Book XXI. 1071 MALACHITE — JET — AMBER — PASTES. Those arc most valuable which resemble very closely some plant. The onyx is a variety where the bands of different colours are perfectly straight, the stone consisting of several flat layers, whereas in agates the layers are curved. Onyxes were much used by the ancients for making cameos; a figure was produced by cutting away a part of the white layer, the remaining part constituting the figure appearing as if laid upon the darker layer. Carnelians are nearly allied to chalcedonies, but are of a reddish colour. Agates, chalcedonies, and carnelians are very hard, take a fine polish, and are extensively used for ornaments, such as bracelets, seals, rings, and other purposes where large stones are admissible. They are likewise employed for making cups, handles for knives and forks, sword hilts, smelling-bottles, snuff-boxes, &c. At Oberstein, near the Rhine, where these stones are found abundantly, they are cut and polished on a consider- able scale, by means of machinery moved by water, and the expense of manufacturing them is thus very moderate. The finest antique gems are engraved on stones of this class. Sect. XIX. BIALACHITE. 6411. Malachite is sometimes used for necklaces and bracelets : it is a fine green, and consists of carbonate of copper ; it is opaque, and never cut in facets. It is not very va- luable. Sect. XX. JET. 6412. Jet is well known to be of a deep black, and is used for necklaces, chiefly worn in mourning. It is a kind of coal, or rather fossil wood, and costs little more than the expense of cutting; it is made into beads, snuff-boxes, and other trinkets. Cannel coal is sometimes substituted for it, but this is very inferior. Sect. XXI. A5IBER. 6413. This is a well-known transparent mineral substance, of a yellowish colour, and is supposed to be a fossil resin. Its original situation is in beds of fossil wood called lignite, and it is sometimes procured by mining operations conducted expressly ; a great quantity is also collected on the sea shores in various countries, having been washed out of its native beds by the action of the sea. The greatest abundance is met with on the shores of the Baltic, particularly in Pomerania. Fine amber is employed in making various orna- ments and trinkets, as beads, heads of canes, mouth-pieces for tobacco-pipes, &c., for which purpose it is easily cut, and takes a beautiful polish. The Oriental nations prize amber much more than the people of Europe. Occasionally insects are found in pieces of amber, which have been inclosed while it was in a fluid state. Amber may be dissolved by drying linseed oil, to form amber varnish. Sect. XXII. PASTES, OR IMITATIONS OF THE GEMS. 6414. AU the gems may be imitated in coloured glass, called pastes, so nearly as to deceive all except those who are much accustomed to the examination of real stones ; but in hardness they are much inferior. To determine whether a substance be a diamond or a paste, apply a fine file to the girdle ; paste is easily cut by the file, which can make no impression on a real diamond : also the girdle of a real diamond will scratcli any other stone, as the white topaz, which is not the case with pastes. Certain optical principles discovered by Dr. Brewster will enable those who understand them to discriminate real gems from artificial imitations, even if they are set, without unsetting the stones ; but they are too complicated for this place. The following receipts for imitation pastes are not given so much to teach the art of making them, which requires considerable skill, as to give general knowledge on the sub- ject. It is scarcely necessary to mention that these pastes are to be cut by the lapidary. 641.5. To imitate gems in paste, first a perfectly colourless glass is prepared of silex, pota.sh, borax, oxide of lead, and sometimes arsenic. This is called strass, and to it various oxides of metals are added to produce the desired colours. For the colourless diamond—3 ounces of rock crystal; 8 ounces of white lead ; 2 ounces of borax ; \ grain of manganese. For the yellow diamond—To 1 ounce strass, as above, add 24 grains chloride of silver, or 10 grains of glass of antimony.