DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. 1022 Book XVIII. knitting needles, the latter are not entirely laid aside; and stockings knitted by hand, though generally less beautiful in appearance, can be more depended upon for durability as well as for accurate fitting. Knitting also furnishes a useful occupation to many per- sons in situations where it would be difficult to find other employment, and is even at present used as a resource. It is still a common employment among the German ladies. The manufacture of knitted worsted stockings has existed for several centuries in the Pyrenees. In the valley of Carrol they make annually at present upwards of 30,000 dozen of pairs, which are exported to Bordeaux, Toulouse, and all parts of France. They are made of Spanish wool, and cost from ten to forty sous a pair. The French government does not permit machines for stocking weaving to be erected there, lest they should injure the employment of the inhabitants. 604<1. All hosiery is to be judged o/by the fineness of the thread and the closeness of the texture, which, in the case of stockings especially, may be partly appreciated by weighing, as it were, the articles in the hand. In ribbed stockings a deception is sometimes practised, against which it is necessary to guard. The spaces between the ribs, which ought to be formed by an inversion of the stitch, contains no stitch at all, but un open range of threads pervious to weather, and utterly destitute of durability. As the ribs of stockings exposed to sale are necessarily almost in contact, the fault cannot be detected without introducing the hand and opening the tissue, when it will bo instantly apparent, and, indeed, will exactly resemble the flaw caused by a dropped stitch in a stocking in wear. Tn cheap cotton stockings the feet are often cut out and sewed together ; but these seams invariably hurt the foot. 6045. T/ie usual varieties qf stockings to be found at the hosiers' are — Silk —White, black, coloured, both English and French. Ditto, with cotton feet. Spun silk, ditto. Silk socks— Black, grey, grey and white. Cotton — White, black, coloured. Cotton socks, same colours, and unbleached. Worsted — White, black, coloured, speckled. Lambs' wool— White, black, coloured. Shetland stockings — Very fine and soft. Lambs* wool and yarn mixed. Angola and Vignonia—White, black, coloured. Woollen socks of the same kinds as stockings. Fleecj/ hosiery ; an extremely warm fabric, having the outside smooth and the inside covered with a fleecy nap ; highly valuable for invalids. Gauze hose ; remark.-ibly thin, worn under silk stockings; they are of cotton and worsted. 6046. Stockings are kept only of a few fixed sizes, which causes some inconvenience in getting well fitted. The usual sizes are called Children's Girls' Maids' Slender women's Women's full size Ditto, large size Boys' Youths' Men's Slender men's Men's out size Gouty hose Fishermen's hose. Where stocking frames are at hand, stockings can be got made to any size. CHAP. VI. SHIRTS. 6047. Shirts are made of linen of various qualities; of cotton cloth or calico of diflPerent kinds ; and of checked and striped cloth. Their varieties are too well known to require any description; and they are either made up on purpose, or bought ready made of a great variety of prices. Breasts of finer materials, and false collars, are likewise con- veniences universally known. 6048. Stocks and handkerchiefs for the neck are parts of dress respecting which we need not give any details, as every one is familiar with them. CHAP. vn. POCKET HANDKERCHIEFS. 6049. These are made of silk, cotton, or linen. India silk is the most durable, and preferred for common wear. They are sometimes imported plain and printed here, because our colours are brighter and better; still the India pattern is preserved. Ban- danas are a kind of silk handkerchiefs manufactured in the East Indies, the patterns of which generally consist of square or circular spots, variously arranged upon a red, blue, or yellow groimd. They have been imitated here in cotton, by first dyeing fine calico a brilliant Turkey red, and afterwards discharging the colour from those parts which in