(Chap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. 203 »,vho are continually inhaling vapours containing some of this, and having their hands and iblothes stained -with it, are frequently attacked with a peculiar disease, termed the painter's cjolic. . , , - , . . 928. Lead can be plated with tin, and as the latter metal is much less deleterious than ihhe former, this method is sometimes resorted to in pipes. To effect this, heated lead is r -ubbed with melted tin, using at the same time turpentine, or some other resinous matter, MS a flux. The lead being thus covered with tin, any quantity of the latter metal will iL-eadily adhere to the surface of the cylinder of lead, which is then ready to be drawn into l aipes." This useful process, however, we believe, is not much practised. SuBSECT. 8.— Tin. 929. Tin is a metal of a white or more sUvery colour than lead, and it is somewhat Inarder. Nearly the whole of our tin is procured from the tin mines in ComwaU, where ithe masses of the metal made ready for sale, are termed block tin; and a purer kind is caalled yrain tin. 930. The metal tin, by itself, is sometimes emploi/ed for making certain vessels, as boilers fiior dyers, worms for stills, and for other purposes in the arts, but it is never formed into kkitchen or culinary utensils. 931. What is usually called tin, when employed for articles of this kind, as saucepans, tea- kitettles, &c., is in fact sheets of iron coated over, or plated with tin; this is a material so very iumportant, and so frequently misunderstood, that it will be proper to describe it somewhat aat length. We have mentioned the poisonous qualities of copper and brass ; and that iiiron is not unwholesome, but so extremely liable to rust, that it cannot conveniently be iBmployed for the ordinary utensils of the kitchen. Tin does not rust; and it is this pro- i perty, and the facility with which iron is coated with it as a protection, that occasions it uto be so much employed. 932. The forming of tin plate is one of the greatest improvements in our culinary ap- i paratus. The process of making is the following. The best iron is rolled out by a p.flatting mUl into plates of the proper thickness, and these are cut by shears into suitable seizes. These plates are first thoroughly scoured with sand to clean off all the black ooxide, and they are then steeped in water, having in it a little muriatic acid, to dissolve what oxide may remain. They are next hammered, rolled, and steeped again, till they are iperfectly bright, and free from black spots, and they are again scoured with hemp and ssand, to make them quite ready to be tinned. In order to coat them with tin, an iron pot iis nearly filled with this metal in a melted state, and a quantity of tallow or grease, suffi- I'cient, when melted, to cover the fluid tin to the thickness of two inches, is put into it. Unto this pot the sheets of bright iron are plunged, in order to coat them over. But pre- Nviously to this, another pot is filled with melted grease only, and the sheets of iron are iiimmersed in it. From the grease pot they are removed, with the grease adhering to liheni, into the pot containing the melted tin, in which they are placed in a vertical pposition. About three hundred and forty plates are usually put into the pot at once, and ilthey remain in it an hour and a half: they are then taken out and drained. But when they lare first taken out, more tin adheres to them than is necessary ; this is taken off by a -subsequent process, called washing, which is done by passing them through a large 'iquantity of melted grain tin, which operation melts aU the loose tin on the surface of the j'plates, which are immediately brushed on each side, with a brush made of hemp. The [iplates are then immersed again for a short time in melted tallow, and are cleaned with 'ibran, ready for sale. It is absolutely necessary that the iron should be quite bright and ifree from oxide ; and the use of the tallow is to preserve the tin from the action of the lair, it being requisite that both metals should be in a perfectly pure state before they will ladhere together. These sheets of tin plate are purchased by the tinman, who cuts them with his shears rinto the requisite forms, and solders them together to make various utensils, as tea-kettles, •coffee pots, saucepans, candlesticks, and similar things to be found in his shop. 933. We hear it frequently said that certain articles of this kind, as dish-covers, coffee- i poVi, Ifc, arc made of block tin : and many persons suppose that such things are made of : the pure metal tin onli/; but this is an error : the metal tin will not do to use in this way : 1 it would bend too easily; and all such articles are, as we have observed, made of iron I coated with tin. What is sold under the term block tin, is only tin plate better planished, land a little stouter than ordinary ; but it is singular enough that the term block tin applied !to manufactured goods is not used in the tinman's trade, and it appears to be an error iwhich has crept in among his customers, and of which he permits the existence. The 1 terms single and double block tin mean only tin plate of different degrees of stoutness. In the ironmongers' shops there arc articles of three kinds of tin, known by them under the names of common tin, planisiied tin, and strong tin. The two last are termed block ' tin by tlie customers. .