1056 STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. Book XX. merated no less than 125 different distilled waters, one-balf of which have scarcely any flavour or virtue. The greater part are now disused in this country, being considered of no value ; and a very few only are retained. 6302. The distilled waters made in Britain are prepared from the aromatic vegetables, from most of which an essential oil may also be obtained : and as the water distilled from them tastes and smells strongly of the oil peculiar to the plant, and also as a water very similar to that which is distilled may generally be made by dissolving some of the oU itself in plain water, there can be no doubt but that the distilled waters of the aromatic vegetables owe their strong smell and taste to the essential oil which they hold in solution. It has indeed been suggested that the principle which occasions the odour may be in some cases distinct from the essential oil itself : but as these have never been separated, and as their distinction is a point which chemistry has not yet determined, it is sufficient for us here to adopt the prevailing opinion. 6.303. The process fur preparing these simple aromatic distilled waters is as follows. The herbaceous or dried plants should first be thoroughly macerated in water, to open their texture, and make them yield their essential oil more abundantly. When herbaceous plants are used, such as peppermint for example, they become sufficiently macerated in the time that it takes to bring the water to a boiling heat, so that no previous preparation is ne- cessary, it being sufficient to put them into the still with the requisite quantity of cold water. But the woods and other hard parts of plants should be macerated for some time before distillation, being previously well bruised, and their texture broken down. If a glass alembic is used, it should be placed on a sand-bath ; if a copper or tin one, it should be put into a water-bath. The quantity of water required must vary, of course, according to the nature of the substance used. Herbaceous plants recently gathered require that the still or alembic should be filled only to two-thirds of its capacity, with the plants moderately pressed, and so much water added as will fully cover them: if too many plants are put in, as they swell much, they would choke up the head of the still. The fire should be raised expeditiously at first, as a long-continued heat is apt to impair the aromatic flavour. The first drops that come over are insipid, and should be thrown away : soon the water which comes is milky and turbid, owing to an excess of essential oil, which it carries up with it above the quantity which it can hold in clear solution ; this excess of oil, when the distilled water cools gradually, collects at top in form of a thin film, or subsides to the bottom according to its specific gravity. As the water distils over it becomes clearer, and proportionally less aromatic to the taste ; till at last, when per- fectly limpid, it appears nearly insipid, and the fire should then be withdrawn. Much care is necessary, to prevent any of the vegetable matter from being scorched during the process ; and the distillation should be stopped before any burnt or empyreumatic flavour is perceived. 6304. Another method of procuring distilled waters is sometimes employed by what is called the cold still, and which has been much practised in private families. A shallow leaden vessel is filled with fresh herbs, flowers, &c., which are heaped above it; so that when the head is fitted on, this also may be filled a considerable way. A little fire is made under the vessel, sufficient to make the bottom much hotter than the hand can bear, care being only taken not to heat it so far as to endanger the scorching any part of the plants. If the bottom of the vessel be not made so hot as to have this efi"ect on the part contiguous to it, there is no fear that the heat communicated to the rest of the included materials will be so great as to do them any injury. By this management the volatile parts of several odorous plants, as mint, are effectually forced over with the moisture, and if the process has been skilfully managed, the distilled liquor which collects in drops in the glass receiver proves richly impregnated with the native odour and flavour of the plants, though it will be small in quantity. 6305. StSl another mode has been used, which is more expeditious and certain. A qu.in- tity of water being poured into the still, and the herbs or flowers placed in a basket over it, there can be no possibility of burning. The water may be made to boil, but so as not to rise up into the basket. The steam, only passing gently through the leaves, imbibes and carries over it the volatile parts unaltered. In the common still the vapour rising upwards before it is condensed, the distillation is said by chemists to be per asccnsinn ; but there is another mode of distillation, per desmisum, in which the vapour descends to be condensed. A cylinder of copper, tinned inside, may be cased in wood; the leaves may be stuffed into this, and steam forced down through them. G30G. When an akmbic or still is not at hand, a small qnantit;/ of simple distilled waters may he procured by the following method : — Put a small quantity of water into a glazed earthen jar, and tie a piece of open muslin or gauze over the mouth, leaving it to hang down inside a little loose : place the flowers on the muslin, and having put some lighted charcoal into any metal vessel, such as a warming-pan, place the bottom of it (just hot enough not to burn or scorch) so as to fit tight to the mouth of the jar containing the