Book VII. 428 ON FOOD. in warmer climates they often attain the length of two or three feet, and weigh from twenty to thirty pounds. In the Lake of Como they are said even to weigh occasionally 200 lbs. The usual food of the carp consists of worms and aquatic insects ; but they feed also on herbs, and, when in course of fattening for the table, bread and milk. It is ex- tremely prolific, and very tenacious of life. As they live long after being out of the water, it is recommended to kill them as soon as they are taken, otherwise they waste. Carp are easy of digestion, and afford pretty good food, but are greatly indebted to the cook for the estimation in which they are held. They are frequently kept in fish ponds, and live to a great age ; some live even a century or more ; they may be tamed so as to feed out of the hand. The sale of carp constitutes a part of the revenue of the nobility and gentry in Prussia, Pomerania, Saxony, and other places in Germany ; consequently, in these coun- tries, the cultivation of carp is regarded with particular attention. The southern parts of Europe are most congenial to it; a few breed in the ponds in Scotland ; it is supposed to have been first introduced into England in 1514. Its season is the spring, in March and April, and from that till October they are to be had ; in winter they are supposed to lie in the mud. A variety, called the Grecian carp, is found in some of the ponds about London, in the vicinity of the Thames, and is also common in several of the counties of England. Their usual size is half a pound; and they are supposed to have been introduced from Germany. 2230. The gold carp, or goldfish (Cyprinus auratus, Linn.), is one of the most beautiful and interesting of all the finny animals, but better known among us for its value as an ornament than for its qualities as food, although they are sufScienlly large and numerous in some places, as in the Mauritius, to be serted up at table as fresli water flsli. The extreme elegance of their form, the splendour of their scaly covering, the grace and agility of their movements, and the facility with which they can be kept alive in small glass vessels, cause them to be ranked among the most pleasing of our pets. This fisli breeds freely in small ponds, and even in tanks, in this country ; but particularly so, if by any contrivance the temperature of the water cau be kept a few degrees above the ordinary mean. SuBSECT. 11. — Tlw Perch (Perca fluviatilis, Linn.). 2231. This is one of the most common, and, at the same time, one of the best of our fresh-water fishes ; its colours are likewise brilliant and striking. It is found in almost all the lakes and rivers in Britain and Ireland, and likewise through the whole of the temperate parts of Europe. It is remarkably voracious, feeding upon worms, insects, and small fish, and is very prolific ; a perch weighing half a pound will contain 280,000 ova. The spawning season is at the end of April or beginning of May ; and perch angling com- mences in February, continuing till the cold weather, if winter comes on. The perch is one of our largest fresh-water fish ; one weighing a pound is a good fish, and one of three pounds weight is reckoned very large; but they have been known to reach even eight or nine pounds. They abound most in deep dark sluggish rivers, and delight to lie about bridges, mill pools, and in any deep and dark holes in the still parts of water, or the gentle eddies about flood-gates, and similar places. Its flesh is white, firm, of a good flavour, and easy of digestion. It is covered with thick scales, which are troublesome to remove ; and is so tenacious of life, that they may be carried sixty miles in straw, and yet survive the journey. They are best crimped the moment they are taken out of the water. 2232. Hie Buffe, or Pope (Perca cermia, Linn.), is a small fresh-water fish, closely allied to the perch, and found commonly in all the rivers and canals of England, prefer- ring slow shaded streams ; they abound in the Thames, Isis, and Cam. It is much like the perch in flavour, being firm, delicate, and well-tasted, and is excellent broiled in but- tered paper. SuBSECT. 12. — The Poach {Cyprinus rutiliis, Linn.). 2233. This fish inhabits deep stiU rivers with a sandy bottom in Europe and the adjacent parts of Asia; and is very numerous in most rivers of England. It seldom exceeds a pound and a half. It spawns in May, and is in season from September till March ; it is very fertile, the eggs are greenish, but become red by boiling. The roach is a yellowish silvery fish of the carp kind, and will breed in ponds, but not so well as in rivers. Some prefer dressino- them by scoring across the sides, and broiling them with the scales on. It is rather an insipid fish, and very bony. The finest are caught in the Thames about the middle of May, or early in June, or afterwards in October; vast shoals are taken in Loch Lomond with nets. " As sound as a roach " is a proverb; but this is derived from the French name of this fish being roche, which also signifies a rock. SuBSECT. 13. — The Fresh Water Bream (C;/prinus hrama, Linn.). 2234. The bream is found in shoals in rivers and lakes, particularly when the latter are large, as those of Cumberland. It also occurs in most of the rivers near London, and is