383 MILK, BUTTKR, AND CHEESE. VlIAP. IV. SuBSECT. 5.—Cream. 1928. When new milk has stood still for six or eight hours, the cream, separates and forms i layer upon the surface. That this may take place in the most expeditious manner, and uat the largest quantity of cream may be procured, the milk is put into shallow vessels 11 which it does not stand above three or four inches deep; and the throwing up the rt-eam proceeds with the greatest ri-gularity, when the temperature of the dairy is from vO° to 55°. It is essential that the milk should be kept cool in warm weather, to prevent -'idity : but much cold is unfavourable, and when the temperature is so low as 40°, the rt-eam forms with difficulty. The cream is usualfy removed with a skimming dish made ;■ ■ tin or wood. If butter is to be made from it, it is immediately put into a wooden aarrel, in which it is collected until there is.a sufficient quantity to be churned. ' Cream is a yellowish-white, opaque fluid, smooth and unctuous to the touch, and of an c^reeable flavour. It consists of a peculiar oil or butter, curd, and serum or whey, ^cccording to Berzelius it contains in 100 parts, butter, 3.5; curd, or matter of cheese, 55; whey, 92.0. 1929. That cream contains an oil is evinced by its staining clothes in the manner of oil; Tiid when boiled for some time, a little oil floats upon the surface. The thick animal oil iihich it contains, the well-known butter, is separated only by agitation, as in the common r -ocess of churning, and the cheesy matter remains blended with the whey in the state of '/Mer-milk. 1930. Cream yields its butler more easily by standing some days, till it acquires a slightly ;i;id taste : no acid is perceived in the butter, but a little is found in the butter-milk, though oDt so much as in the cream ; hence some acid has disappeared in the churning. 1931. The consistency of cream increases by exposure to the air. In three or four days becomes so thick that the vessel which contains it may be inverted without its being :)ilt. In eight or ten days more it becomes a soft solid, and its surface becomes tough. has now no longer the flavour of cream, but has acquired that of cheese. This is the riTOcess for making what is termed cream cheese. SuBSECT. G. — Skimmed Milk. 1932. This is the milk from ivhich the cream has been removed. When the cream has reen taken ofl' within twelve or fifteen hours from the time of milking, the milk is sweet, nd forms a most useful article of food, eaten in a great variety of ways ; and it is like- wise employed for making cheese and butter, as some of these substances still remain in If allowed to remain twenty or thirty hours, it coagulates spontaneously, as above aated, separating into a soft curd and whey, the former of which is extremely wholesome, iiid, eaten with a little sugar, is excellent. If the whey be kept about three weeks in a aarm temperature, it passes into the vinous fermentation by means of the saccharine satter which it contains, and a kind of vinous liquor is prepared from it in some countries ' ■ Asia, and from that again an ardent spirit is obtained. 1933. Skimmed milk, analysed by Berzelius, affords, in 1000 parts, water, 928.75 : gaseous latter, with a trace of butter, 28.0 ; sugar of milk, 35.0 ; chloride and phosphate of pot- bh, 1.95 ; lactic acid, acetate of potash, and a trace of lactate of iron, 6.0; earthy phos- laates, 0.30. Other chemists have also found a minute portion of sulphur. SuBSECT. 7. — Milk considered as an Aliment. 11934. Milk considered as cm aliment i.<t of such importance in domestic economy, as to nnder all the improvements in its production extremely valuable. To enlarge upon the Ittiquity of its use is unnecessary; it has always been a favourite food in Britain : IlLacte et came vivunt," says Ca;sar, in his Commentaries ; the English of which is, " the jliaabitants subsist upon flesh and milk." It is stated by agricultural writers that the need of the cow has received great improvement in modern times as regards quantity ■dd quality of the milk which she affords, the form of milch cows, their mode of nourish- leent, and also in the management of the dairy. I'1935. Although milk in its natural stale be a fluid, yet, considered, as an aliment, it is both ' nnil fluid : for no sooner docs it enter the stomaeh, than it is coagulated by the gastric , and .separated into curd and whey, the first of these being extremely nutritive. .1936. Milk, being the natural food of young animals, is universally admitted to be one of : mo.'it easily assimilated kinds of nutriment, more particularly when drank immediately '■er it is drawn from the udder. When it is coagulated artificially by rennet the curd is ss digestible. It appears to occupy a middle rank between animal and vegetable food, id is particularly calculated, not only for young persons, but for all those who require rry nourishing aliment. With some constitutions it is apt to become acid ; but to