1083 WASHING, DRYING, IRONING, ETC. Chap. VI. CHAP. VI. PRACTICE OF WASHING, DKYING, rRONlNG, ETC. Sect. I. •WASHING. 6474. Some directions for the management of linen, previously to its being washed, may be useful: and -we may at the same time obserTe, that though the term linen strictly means only cloth made from flax, yet, on this subject, it is usual to apply it in a general way to express most of the articles, whether linen or cotton, which are submitted to the various processes of the laundry. 6475. Soiled or foul linen ought not to remain long unwashed, as the dirt is then more difficult to be removed. Some families wash only once a month; but once a fortnight would be better: in the mean time the various articles, as they are soiled, should be put aside till washing day (for which Tuesday is usually chosen) with method, instead of being thrown together in a heap. This will save a great deal of trouble in sorting and keeping account of them. When they are numerous, each kind of article should be put into a separate division, bag, or place, by themselves: and, to be very exact, it would be easy to make an entry, on a tally or book, of the number of things put by. What has been used in the kitchen and other offices should be kept separate, being generally greasy or otherwise very foul; and, as nothing is more unwholesome or more apt to injure the air of a house than collections of foul towels or rags of any kind, these should, if possible, be kept in some out-house. Silk stockings, blonde, lace, dresses, and various nice articles that require particular skill in cleaning, come within the province of the lady's maid. Washing blankets and bed-furniture does not take place above once a-year. 6476. With respect to the persons engaged to wash, bodily health and strength are first- rate qualities; yet general intelligence is also very desirable, since much, after aU, must be left to their discretion : and it would be well that they should be of such a disposition that they will attend to any dh-ections given to them, although these may vary somewhat from their usual practice; and that they should be free from that obstinacy and tena- ciousness of old modes, which become very troublesome when improvements are intro- duced. 6477. Spots of grease or gravy on table-linen or napkins should be washed out with soap and water as soon as the cloths are withdrawn, otherwise they are sometimes difficult to remove after the linen has lain long by: and stains from ink, wine, or fruits should like- wise be taken out. The manner of doing this will be pointed out. 6478. The usual process of washing has been thus given to us by an intelligent laundress:— " On the Monday, the day previous to washing day, the business of the laundress begins by collecting all the various articles to be washed, and entering them in the washing book; in preparing the coppers, filling them with water, laying the fuel ready to be kindled, &c. " Soaking and washing. — On the afternoon previous to washing day, the linen should be put to soak in a weak ley of lukewarm water having a little soda put into it; but first it must be well soaped in such parts as are the most soiled: and this operation should be performed with care, as it contributes much to the facility of the washing by loosening the dirt, and thus saving labour as well as the wear of the linen. For soaping the worst parts, soft soap will be found most economical. No more warm water should be used than is just sufficient to cover the linen when pressed down in it, that the strength of the soap may not be reduced. When washing is required to be done in the best manner, it is the custom with some laundresses, besides rubbing the worst parts with soap, to run the whole through water that has had soap dissolved in it by cutting it in slices, by which every part of the linen is sure to be penetrated by the soap, and no part can be missed. Care must be taken that the first washing is not done with water too warm, or it will set in the dirt." 6479. Some have recommended to mix lime-water with the water in which the linen is soaked, with the view of saving soap and softening the water. The lime-water is made by mixing a pound of quicklime in ten gallons of water, and letting this stand for twenty-four hours : the clear water is then decanted off from the lime. This practice undoubtedly has the desired effect of rendering less labour necessary in the subsequent washing, and does save soap; but, when used too freely, there is danger of the linen being injured, owing to the causticity of the lime. Indeed complaints have been made that household linen has been found to be destroyed in a few weeks after coming home from laundresses who have been in the habit of using lime.