BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIFI. 612 near Oporto, succeeded, through the influence of the Marquis of Pomhal, in obtaining, in 1750, a charter from the Portuguese government to sanction a joint-stock company, with the avowed object of securing the reputation of the wines of tlie district by preventing all adulteration, and to protect the commerce. This charter granted to the Oporto Company the monopoly of a certain extent of territory on the river Douro, in which Oporto is situated, in which alone all wine intended for exportation was permitted to be raised : but, in fact, these vineyards -were those belonging to the monasteries, and the principal gentry of the country : and the absolute disposal of these wines was placed in the hands of the company, who were allowed to fix the prices to be paid for them to the cultivator, and likewise that for which they were to be sold to the foreigner; all mixture of these wines with others without the boundary being prohibited, however useful that might have been to the quality of the wines. By this a complete monopoly was obtained by the Oporto Company, as far as England was concerned, of the best wines of Portugal. Some of the reasons for granting such a charter, such as checking the adulteration, were sufficiently plausible; but the injurious effect of this monopoly, and the injudicious conduct of the company, has been a subject of severe animadversion ; and it has been confidently stated by almost all writers respect- ing it, that they have eventually been the means of retarding the improvement of the wines of Portugal, instead of ameliorating them. In Portugal, although the climate, soil, and situation are eminently well calculated for the growth of the grape, yet its cultivation is in general unskilfully managed, except in a few places : of these the principal are the vicinity of Lisbon and Oporto. The wine country, or district of the Cima de Douro, or Upper Douro, granted to the Oporto Company, and from which we have our port, commences about fifty miles from Oporto. The wines produced here, the whole of which were purchased by the company, were divided into those destined for exportation to the English market, together with those consumed in Portugal, and such as were used by the distillers of brandy, and for supply- ing the taverns in Oporto; the latter are seldom mixed with brandy. Wine that is the pure growth of the Douro, unsophisticated by any admixture of brandy, and that has not passed through the hands of the Oporto Company, is of a full mellow body, great mildness, and exquisite flavour ; but the best of this wine is scarcely known in England. The very first growth of the Upper Douro is said to be produced at Pezo da Regna; and, when not brandied, resembles some of the Rhone growths of France or the Cote Rotie. It has been frequently asserted, and is generally believed, that such wines will not bear sea carriage, or that they will not keep any length of time, without a certain portion of brandy, and also that the quality of the wine is much improved by this admixture. Whether this practice was originally begun in consequence of such opinion, or merely to please the English taste, cannot easily be determined: but it is maintained by Dr. Macculloch, Dr. Henderson, and others who have paid most attention to the subject, that brandy is not at all necessary to the preservation of wine that has been properly manufactured, and that, if mixed with wine, it never completely incorporates with it. Dr. Henderson remarks, that " if the saccharhie principle has been fully decomposed, and the super, abundant leaven carefully separated by sulphuring and other means, — or if a greater proportion of sugar exist in the must than the ferment can possibly decompose, — the wine produced may be kept in close vessels, without any risk of alteration, during a long term of years." But he observes, that in wines imperfectly made, and mclining to acescency, the change may be retarded by brandy. But in checking one evil another is brought on ; " for it is very certain that, when the addition is made after the full fermentation of the must, no perfect incorporation of the two fluids will take place; but the flavour and perfume of the wine will become completely obscured; and the adventitious alcohol, combining with the aqueous part of the liquor, will occa- sion a gradual separation of the extractive and colouring matter, leaving merely a mixture of brandy and water with a slight vinous tinge. That this is the case must, I think, be evident to every one who has observed the progress of the decomposition incident to the inferior port wines, which can never be said to be in condition, but which, after a certain period, lose what little flavour they possessed, and become more or lets tawny, while lighter wines, that contain no adventitious spirit, remain quite inichanged." This addition of brandy explains one of the methods by which many fraudulent wine merchants produce the deposition of the crust on the side of the bottle, which is supposed to indicate the years the wine has been bottled. The power given originally to the Oporto Company, of fixing the price of the wine purchased from the grower, had a pernicious influence upon the quality of the wines of the Douro. They were usually fixed, by a fiat of their own, to two rates of prices, one for the wine for exportation, and another for that for home consumption ; and they paid the cultivators the same price for these two kinds, whatever was their quality. To save the trouble of tasting the produce of each farmer, and paying him in proportion to its value, the whole of the small quantities was put together into one batch or repository for export- ation, in order that they might be enabled to supply their customers in England with wine of the same or a standard quality; and after the wines had been purchased of the great farmers, the agents bought up small quantities, even if inferior, to mix with the rest. The largest-vineyards belonged to the monasteries, and the Jesuits were the best skilled in the makinn- of wine. An acre of vineyard yields about three or four pipes. The wine- growers had, therefore, no motive to exert superior skill and ingenuity, but contented themselves with raising, at the least possible expense, the greatest supply of such wine as