Book XI. 812 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. hours in twenty-four quarts of water. The produce was a very strong clear jelly ; and at the bottom of the vessel was an earthy residue. By subsequent boiling, the jelly became so stiff when cold as to bear being cut U|) into firm lices, which, when hung up on strings in the air, dried in a fortnight into glue of a good quality. The dried glue weighed fifteen ounces and a half. Fifty pounds of ivory-shavings gave nine pounds and a half of clear glue. These facts are sufficiently known to many practical economists who are in the habit of pre- paring jellies from ivory turnings and shavings; and it Is a matter of common observation that bones con- tribute, when boiled with meat, or in soup or gravies, to the richness of the liq\ior; but it is not commonly known how much gelatine may be extracted from all bones, even the hardest and driest. This gelatine, when dried, may be preserved unchanged for years. The quantity of jelly is much increased by giving the water by which it is extracted a higher degree of heat than the boiling point; or by reducing the bones to a fine powder, and using repeated coction and pulverisa- tion. The former method was used by Papin in his digester; the latter mode was brought into notice by M. Proust. No method extracts the jelly so completely as long boiling in Papin's digester with a very great heat; but the jelly which remains in the water, and the oil which swims on the top, are found to have ac- quired a burnt unpleasant taste. The method of Proust is preferable; chop the bones into small pieces, and extract the fat in the way mentioned above ; then dry the bones, and powder thera by some pretty strong mechanical power; boil them with about ten times their weight of water for some hours, till half the water is wasted, more or less, according to the kind of bone, the joint and thick bones making a richer jelly than the thin bones. This proportion of water is sufficient to leave a jelly of about the same richness as would be produced by one ounce of portable soup dissolved in tliirty-one ounces of water. The extraction is much assisted by using a close lid, but not fastened down as in a digester : uncooked bones are here understood. The bones of boiled meat still contain a great deal of nutriment; but roasting readers them unfit for this purpose. 'IG.'iO. The extraction of the gelatine from bones is now performad in France by another process ; namely, by dissolving all the earthy salts Liy an acid, leaving the whole of the gelatine. When bones are steeped in di- luted acid, as tlie muriatic, a slight effervescence is perceived, and they are rendered soft and flexible by the gradual aljstraction of the earthy basis, or skeleton, which, we have said, is chiefly phosphate of lime, that becomes dissolved in the acid. The residue is a spongy substance retaining the form of the bone, and consists of the gelatine and cartilage wliich had originally filled up all the minute cavities of the twne. Nearly the whole of this may be dissolved in boiling water, and yields a solution possessed of all the properties of gela- tine. The cartilage which remains undissolved by the water appears identical with coagulated albumen, or white of egg. A very nutritive kind of ship's biscuit has been made of this gelatine and flour. 4660. Soup made of gelatine from bones was used some years ago in the hospitals of Paris ; and, notwithstanding the public opinion against it, was said to be sufficiently wholesome ; but of late its character has declined, and it is not considered nearly so nutritive as soup made in the ordinary way from meat. In fact, as has been stated, gela- tine has of itself but little nutritive power ; and it was owing to this having been over- rated, that many errors respecting soup were propagated. We are the more desirous of pointing out the inferiority of this preparation of soup, lest any persons connected with public establishments might entertain erroneous views on this subject. CHAP. m. CULINARY APPARATUS. Sect. I. FIRE-PLACE. 4661. In considering the apparatus necessary for cooking, om* first attention is neces- sarily directed to the fire-place. The usual form of the fire-place of a kitchen in the towns of England about fftij years ago was that of a very large open cliininey " ■ {fig. 628.,) in which was a very strong iron grate for the fire, called a range ; the throat of this chimney was enor- mously large, and the consumption of fuel immense. To support kettles over the fire in boiling, a crane was placed, moveable upon a centre, to which the vessels were suspended by iron hooks that were made to lengthen and shorten to keep them near or farther from the fire : afterwards, to economise fuel, the front bar of the range was made to fold down ; and moveable iron cheeks were added, to reduce or enlarge the fire by winding them with a rack and pinion : also a little trivet was placed upon the upper bar, to support a tea-kcttle or other small vessel. The consumption of coals, with all these improvements, was still very great; not only in large establishments wlieie much cooking was done, but likewise in families of the middle class, where economy is more an object. When stewing, or what are termed tnade dishes were required, charcoal stoves were used. These are small square pits sunk in a mass of brickwork, generally at the side of the chimney breast, in which lighted