Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 264 Physicians remark that soft feather beds, in which the body sinks so deep as to be almost surrounded by feathers, have a relaxing effect, occasioning an undue warmth that weakens the action of the skin, and renders the individual very susceptible of cold when exposed out of doors. They recommend that when a feather bed is used, it should be so well stuffed as to afford ample resistance to the weight of the body. On this account many persons prefer sleeping upon mattresses only, particularly in summer. These observations, however, apply chiefly to the young and vigorous, who may sleep sound upon a hard bed ; but the aged and infirm, except the bed be moderately soft, would thus pass many a sleepless night. The covering should be light. For very cold weather some have the counterpane quilted with cotton wool; eider down is better. For comfort and cleanliness, the more simple the style of the hangings the better. Much drapery confines' the air, harbours dust, and is not only expensive, but requires a great deal of trouble to keep it as clean as is necessary. Dr. Franklin recommended as an improvement, to those who can afford so great a luxury, to have two beds near each other; and if one wakes, feeling the bed too hot, to go into the cool one. A large bed, admitting a removal to another portion, in some degree answers this purpose. Health demands that all the materials of beds should be kept as clean as possible. Beds' or mattresses, when impregnated with animal efHuvia from the human body, and particularly^ in cases of sickness, are improper to sleep upon. They ought, therefore, to be frequently well aired, and likewise occasionally taken to pieces, and the materials beat, carded, washed,' or otherwise cleaned. Blankets retain animal effluvia with considerable pertinacity, and ought always to be scoured after considerable sickness. 1188. Four-post bedsteads, as they are called, are the sort most generally used in England for the best beds. These consist of four lofty pillars, with a bed frame, and canopy with curtains. Fig. 392. represents a bedstead of this kind without curtains or bedding. Of the four bed-posts, the two at the head are usually plain and square, because Fig, 392, they are in a great measure concealed by the curtains ; the other two at the foot of the bed are always more or less ornamented with turned mouldings or carving. These are generally of mahogany, but occasionally of other fine wood, as satinwood ; and some have lately been made extremely elegant of porcelain. As they are made of solid wood, the thickness increases the expense considerably. The bed-frame is fixed to the four posts by strong screws, which must be unscrewed when the bed is taken to pieces; and a particular implement, called a bed-screw, is kept for that purpose. Sacking sometinios, but in the best beds laths, are put across to lay the bedding upon. The head-board is fixed across, and drops into grooves in the square posts at the head ; and sometimes there is likewise a foot-board fixed in a similar manner to protect the feet There is a cormce at the top of'the bedstead, which is best made of mahogany, French polished, or wood japanned, which is cheaper, though not so durable. Cornices are at present made extremely plain, as much carving is found to harbour dust, independently of the expense. The architrave is sometimes omitted. The tester lath is the square lath fixed on the top of the posts, to which the valance is nailed, and to carry the curtain rods. , , , 1189. The drapery nf beds or bed furniture includes the curtains, valance, and head- cloth. Bed curtains "are made of various materials, as silk, damask, moreen, chintz, or dimity. Silk is of course the richest, but by fai- the most expensive, and is seldom