IHAP. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 483 I i 2 wd in one country are rejected as poisonous in another, which seems to show that their eleterious properties are owing to climate, situation, or accidental circumstances, rather lan any specific peculiarity. In some parts of Europe, as Russia, Poland, and parts of (ermany, there are above thirty species growing wild that are used as food, and cooked r preserved in various ways, whereas in Britain only two are generally eaten. 2641. The garden or cidtivated mxishroom {Agaricits cavipestris, lAaa.'). — This species, hich is considered as the best, and is the most usually eaten in England, is cultivated in ardens, but it is also found abundantly springing up wild in rich open pastures. It is dis- nguished from the poisonous kinds called toad stools, by its having pink or flesh-coloured ills or under side, and by its invariably having an agreeable smell. When young they :e of a roundish form like a button, the stalk as well as the button being white; and the eshy part being very white, when broken, the gills within being livid. As they grow rger, they expand their heads by degrees into a flat form, and the gills underneath are first of a pale flesh colour, but as they stand long become blackish or brown. The oisonous kinds are mostly all brown, and generally have a rank putrid smell. The lible mushrooms seldom grow in woods, but many of the poisonous sorts are to be found sere. Mushrooms are stewed or boiled, and are employed in flavouring many dishes, ihey are also pickled and dried, and when reduced to powder, and kept in this state in ose bottles, they are very useful in the season when they do not grow. The wild mush- >oms of the same species are considered superior in point of flavour to those raised in ^.e garden, but the latter are safer on account of the risk of gathering improper sorts. {atsup or ketchup is made from mushrooms by mixing salt and spices with their juice, ihe young when globular, called buttons, are best for pickling. : 2642. A. pratensis is a much esteemed species, known by the name of champignon : the «st grow in parks and di-y pastures where the turf has not been ploughed up for many .ears ; they have a finer flavour than the garden mushroom; the gills are cream coloured, ihese are much employed for ketchup and in stews; but it is said that they are apt to be ard and leathery, in which state they are indigestible, and they are so like some poisonous mds that they should be gathered with caution. \ Besides these, however, there are several edible mushrooms in this country; and in nrticular districts, where the inhabitants are well acquainted with them, they are used; :it, as we have before stated that there are many which are poisonous, we would advise lose who are not very conversant with their characters to abstain from gathering them. Mushrooms vary much in size; some are only an inch or two in diameter, others have oen known to measure eight or ten inches across. Dr. Withering mentions a species on ee sea coast of Cornwall which has the cap eighteen inches in diameter, and the stem as ick as a man's wrist; and one was gathered in a hot bed in Birmingham that weighed uurteen pounds. IThe manner of propagating the fungus tribe is remarkable and peculiar, and the pro- rrties of some of those which are found in other parts of the world are extraordinary, resides those which are powerful poisons, some are medicinal; and one species in the >rrth-east part of Asia is employed to produce intoxication. .'All mushrooms require to be very well cooked, particularly those which are large. 22643. Morel {Phallus esculentus. Linn.).— The morel is a species of fungus of an egg 'ippe, hollow, and marked on the surface with connecting ridges. It is of a yellowish ililour, on a smooth white stalk, about four inches high. They are not cultivated, but llllected in the fields or in dry woods in May and June. They are seldom eaten alone, itt are much used in gravies, soups, ragouts, &c., and they are likewise dried for the nnter months ; when reduced to powder they form a useful culinary ingredient. 22644. Truffle {Tuber cibarium).— TTie truffle is a species of fungus that grows some tbhes below the surface of the soil in clusters. It is irregularly globular, and those that now wild in England are about the size of a hen's egg, without any roots. As there is no 1'lication to point out where they are, dogs are trained to discover them by the scent: ■;gs devour them with great avidity, and often lead to their discovery by rutting up the ound. They are common on the downs of Hampshire, Wiltshire, and Kent, and abound idry light soils, especially in oak and chesnut forests. They are employed for the same rrposes as the morel, and, as they impart a delicious flavour, they are much used in bkery; but many of the virtues attributed to them are imaginary. Their skin is ickish or grey, studded with small warts, but the interior is variegated white and brown, leir wholesomeness is perhaps questionable, and they should be eaten in moderation, ley abound more in France than with us, and many are imported from the south of ance and Italy, where they are much larger and in greater perfection ; but they lose ich of their flavour by drying. Some unsuccessful attempts have been made to pro- ;gate them artificially.