IBookXXI. TURQUOISE —tourmaline —moonstone, etc. 1069 Sect. X. TUBQUOISK. 6401. The turquoise is rare and much in request It is destitute of the lustre which distinguishes most of the precious stones : it is opaque, and does not admit of a very high polish, but its colour is a fine celestial blue. There are two kinds of the substance called turquoise; one is a stone called calaite, and found chiefly in Persia, where it is in high t estimation, and on that account few of the most beautiful specimens come to Europe ; rthe other is fossil bone, coloured by phosphate of iron or carbonate of copper. The latter is liable to change in colour. The turquoise is cut spheroidal, and appears to : most advantage when surrounded with brilliants or pearls. It is from the size of a pin's : head to that of an almond. Malachite is sometimes sold for turquoise. Sect. XI. TOUKMAMNE. 6402. The tourmaline is occasionally used in jewellery. Common tourmaline is black I and opaque; but there is a transparent precious kind, which is red, green, blue, or pink, 1 and often sold for other stones. One of the most remarkable properties of the tourmaline is its becoming electric by heat or friction. The crystals of common tourmaline are often large, and scarcely employed by the jeweller. Sect. XII. MOONSTONE. 6403. The moonstone is a variety of felspar called adularia, and is beautifully trans- lucent, of a milky colour, and having a remarkable play of light, amounting to a slight pearly lustre, and sometimes iridescence, which contrasts agreeably with the delicate blueish tint of the stone, whence its name. It is used for ear-drops and rings, and, when fine, sells for a high price. The best comes from Ceylon. It consists of 64 parts of silica; 20 alumina ; 2 lime ; and 14 potash. Sect. XIII. 6404. Garnet is a very common mineral, though beautiful specimens, called the pre- cious garnet, or almandine, are classed with gems. These are usually of a deep red; the finest come from India : when large and of a fine colour, they are valuable. They are much worn in beads, and are also set; they are chiefly used in mourning. What is called the oriental is brought from Sirian, in Pegu ; improperly called by lapidaries Syrian gar- nets. They appear to be the carbuncle of the ancients. There is also the Bohemian garnet, which is the pi/rope of some mineralogists. Common garnet, not fit for jewellery, being ill-coloured and opaque, or only slightly translucent, is in many countries quite com- mon, and is even used as a flux for ores. There is also the melanite, or black garnet, found in volcanic rocks, and worked into necklaces at Naples ; but black glass is not un- frequently made to pass for it to English travellers. Garnet consists, according to Vau- quelin, of 43 parts silica; 16 alumina; 20 lime; and 16 oxide of iron. Some, as the large common garnets of Fahlun, have no lime. The primary form of the crystals is the rhombic dodecahedron. They usually occur in the most ancient rocks : some are found in this country, and particularly in Cornwall. Garnets are hard enough to scratch quartz, and of course much harder than glass, by which glass counterfeits may be easily distinguished by means of a file. Sect. XIV. HOCK CRYSTAX — TKANSPAHENT QUARTZ. 6405. This stone is sometimes quite colourless, and beautifully transparent; it is also occasionally, though rarely, yellow like topaz ; but it is softer than topaz, and of a different crystalline form in its natural state. The form in which quartz usually occurs is a six- sided prism terminated by a six-sided pyramid, as a. Jig. 816., or modified, as b, by having some of the angles truncated. Superb groups of crystals are brought from Dauphine, and are sometimes seen upon the mantel-piece. These generally have the sides of the pyramids very un- equal in size, as c. In quartz crystals, faint stria; may be seen, which are at right angles to the sides, and these serve to distinguish them from the crystals of other Fig. 810.