ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 292 Book \'. nanufiictuvers: but the best materials are said to be a mixture of pounded Hessian cru- cibles and Stourbridge clay. Metallic vessels are so generally used in England for boiling and stewing, that the want of an earthenware manufacture to answer this end is little felt: but it would be desirable that a cheap article of this kind for culinary purposes should be got up, since earthenware is preferable to metal for stewing ; and, on the Continent, it is the general practice to stew in earthenware. It is said that the grey Dutch stoneware is superior to the English in strength, and particularly in bearing exposure to the fire. Some of the original Dutch stoneware jugs, brought into England before they were made here, it is stated, may sometimes be met with in the eastern parts of London. Sdbsect. 2.—English While Stoneware, and Wedgwood's Wares. 1296. To Astbury, already mentioned, is ascribed a great improvement in pottery, the in- troduction of flints calcined and ground as a material to be mixed with the clay, from which a much better white earthenware was made. It is said that accident led to this discoverv. White travelling to London on horseback, in 1720, Astbury had occasion at Dunstable to seek a remedy for a disorder in his horse's eye ; when the ostler at the inn, bui-ning a flint, reduced it by pounding to a fine white powder, which he blew into the diseased eye to effect a cure. The potter, observing the beautifully white colour of the flint after calcination, instantly conceived the use to which it might be applied in his art, by mixing it in his clay, and thus made the first white stoneware. 1297. The improvements we have mentioned paved the way for some of still greater im- portance by Mr. Jusiah Wedgwood, who was the younger son of a Staffordshire potter, and born 1730. This extraordinary man, overcoming the difficulties of his early life by indefatigable industry and perseverance, and applying himself to a great variety of im- provements in pottery, not only succeeded in acquiring an ample fortune, but became even a considerable benefactor to his country, by carrying the art of pottery to a high degree of perfection, and creating a commerce which to this day proves a source of national wealth. But the merit of Wedgwood did not consist merely in having the sagacity to perceive that a profitable business could be formed by improvements in his art. His mind was of a higher class. Not only devoting himself to patient investigations, he gathered round him the talents of various countries, and by the liberality of his con- duct towards the individuals whom he engaged, he encouraged them to give him the most effective assistance in prosecuting and completing those views which his genius imagined, but which he could never have accomplished alone. He engaged Mr. Chisholme, an able chemist, to apply himself solely to those pursuits and experiments which were necessary for the selection of the best materials, and for perfecting his various processes ; and he liberally provided for him when old age incapacitated him for further exertions. Not satisfied with improving the materials of pottery, he was desirous of giving greater value to it also by improvements in form. Assisted by the classic taste of his partner, Mr. Bentley, the ablest modellers were brought from Italy and other countries, who were intimately acquainted with the works of the ancients, and he rewarded the services of these with liberal encouragement. The consequence of this was, that English pottery, hitherto unknown as a class, became celebrated and eagerly sought for throughout the civilised world. We cannot help repeating, that it was to the enlightened and liberal views of Wedgwood that his success was mainly owing : nor should it be forgotten that the ample fortune which he thus acquired was generously expended in promoting the spread of know- ledge, in encoui-aging the efforts of genius in others, and in lessening, as far as lay in his power, the sufferings of his fellow creatures. The disposition and manners of Wedgwood were no less estimable than the powers of his mind, so that he became the object of admiration and esteem for his moral as for his intellectual qualities. He died in the sixty- fifth year of his age. The interest that must always be taken in the pottery produced by Wedgwood demands that we enumerate the various kinds. In 1763 Wedgwood manufactured a kind of ware for the table, of a cream colour, which came into universal use in this country, under the name of queen's ware, which was conferred upon it in consequence of the patronage of her Majesty. The materials were the whitest clays from Devonshire and Dorsetshire, mixed with ground flints, and covered with a vitreous glaze. This ware, being executed with care and expedition, was sold at a cheap rate, and was superior to any that had hitherto appeared for ordinary purposes. By varying his experiments and the proportions of his materials, Mr. Wedgwood discovered the mode of manufacturing other species of earthen- ware, which were excellent and beautiful, and adapted to various purposes of use and ornament. . . .« , 1298. The ware known in general by the name of Wedgwood's is a kind of semi-yitrified pottery, which is not susceptible of receiving a strong superficial glaze, but which can