FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 970 ning are taken out, and the longer ones are arranged in a parallel manner. To assist the luikling in splitting and separating the filaments several methods have been resorted to. In some places, flax is beat with a wooden mallet, having a fluted face, upon a blockj after and between the hackling. Brushing with a very stiff brush made of swine's bristles is another method. The coarse entangled fibres which are separated by the hackle are called tow, and the hackled flax is termed line. The line is now carried away to be sorted, according to the various qualities in respect of fineness ; it is then ready to be spun. 5710. Since subjecting flax to the process of retting is not only tedious, but liable to injure its strength, attempts have been made to hackle and dress it without retting, by means of machines ; but it has been found that the flax thus prepared was not equal in quality to that which has been retted by the old processes. Sect. III. MANUFACTURE OF LINEN FABRICS. 5711. Tlie spinning of flax by the domestic or flax wheel was described in page 951.; but this process is now efiected in factories nearly in the same manner as cotton by more complicated machinery, which produce yarn with much greater rapidity. But the spin- ning of flax by machinery has been found more difficult than that of cotton or wool, and therefore it is but lately that manufacturers have succeeded in it. It was in Leeds that this was first eSected, in a degree little short of the spinning of cotton. The flax is then first formed into a roving, and that again made into yarn. But in spinning this material it is necessary to pass it through water, which occasions a dewy spray to be thrown, ex- tremely inconvenient to the spinners, as it wets their clothes. Hot water is now used instead of cold, which in some degree obviates this inconvenience and produces a smoother thread. The thread or yarn is of various degrees of fineness, some of which is twisted hard to serve for warp, and the rest has a softer twist given to it that it may have the yielding consistence of weft. A pound of flax is divided into so many hanks ; and the number of hanks is the commercial name or number of the thread. Low numbers are used for sail-cloth, sacking, &c. ; from 20 to 40 for sheeting, drills, table-cloths, &c. ; Irish linens from 60'to 100 and upwards; cambrics require from 120 to 200. 5712. The process of weaving linen cloth hy hand-looms is the same as has been de- scribed under the article " Weaving," which see ; but of late the power-looms have been adopted for weaving all but the finest and most costly fabrics. Figured or fancy cloths, as damask, diaper, &c., are wrought by a particular modification in the draught of the loom and cording of the harness, the effect of which is to produce alternations in the twill or flushing of the warp and woof at certain intervals, according to the pattern prescribed. The plain cloth most in demand for personal use is principally manufactured in Ireland. 5713. After the making of linen cloth has been completed by the weaver, it has to go through the important process of bleaching, to render the cloth perfectly white; but as the proper bleaching of linen now seldom becomes an aSair of domestic economy, and as its principles are very important to throw light on the operations of the laundry, we have considered that the most useful arrangement would be to connect it with them ; and there- fore we refer the reader to the subsection " Bleaching " in Book XXII. " Laundry." Sect. IV. DESCRIPTION OF FABRICS MADE OF FLAX AND HEMP. 5714. Linen. — The cloth so named from the Latin linum (flax) is the principal fabric manufactured from flax, and is used mostly for shirting and sheeting. The fineness of linen is determined by the relative length of yarn in a given weight, and also by the number of threads of warp contained in a certain space of the reed in weaving, to which the threads of weft in a similar space must bear a fixed and regular proportion. In judging of linen of whatever fineness and price, particular attention should be paid to the evenness of the threads, and also to the firmness and closeness of the texture. The colour should be perfectly white, and the surface glossy; but this gloss should be prin- cipally, if not wholly, the efifect of the calender employed in finishing the cloth. Many inferior fabrics are rendered marketable by a large proportion of starch, from which they receive not only a fine gloss, but also a factitious hardness or body, as it is termed, — qualities which disappear after the first washing; and the cloth having lost in this ordeal all its vellum-like consistency becomes, to use a familiar expression, " as poor as a rag." Hard- ness and smoothness, therefore, can never be safely depended upon as a criterion ; the eye must be rather closely applied to discern whether these qualities actually proceed from the strength and fineness of the fabric. The threads must not only be even, but must have a certain wire-like roundness; a magnifying glass is very useful to examine the texture of linen by ; but the purchaser should be in the habit of using it, otherwise he will