I IBooK. X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 771 3 D 2 uite It In the form of gruels or soup, ilumplings, and pancakes, all made with as little of any ingredient as pos- (ilible, and found them palatable and quite wholesome." This account, were it not so well authenticated, T.nigh't have the air of a romance ; and it still remains to be shown how far the fact may be available for useful IDurposes in general; in the meantime it adds to the stock of our knowledge on the subject of food. BOOK X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. CHAP. I. INTRODUCTION. — GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 4406. All animal and vegetable substances being liable to change, so as to be at last unfit ffor food, their perishable nature, together with the unavoidable irregularity in their pro- cduction, has imposed upon mankind the necessity of storing up the superabundance of one t time to meet the exigencies of another. It has, therefore, become an object of great im- I portance to ascertain the best method of preserving the various substances suitable for food, : as nearly as possible in their original state, or, at least, in some condition in which their 1 nutritive properties may be, as much as possible, retained. But for the art of preserving I food mankind -would at times be subjected to great deprivations ; and to mariners, in par- I ticular, every method of preserving articles of diet in a -wholesome and nutritive state I must present itself under a very striking point of view. When we hear of beef, fruit, milk, and other articles of nutriment, eaten quite fresh ; after having travelled round the globe, and when we consider the simplicity of the means by which this has been effected, we must admit the value of those sciences to which this almost miraculous preservation is owing. 4407. Thus the methods of preserving food for a shorter or a longer period of time are not only deserving of attention in domestic economy, but are highly important in a national point of view. We shall begin by adverting to the chemical history of the substances to be preserved, the nature of which has been already described in Book VII. 4408. While the living principle exists in a healthy state in animals and vegetables, their elementary constituents cannot separate, and no decomposition can take place ; but no sooner is life extinct than an alteration commences, and those elementary substances which we have described as composing the whole animal and vegetable kingdom, and which are held together by the laws of organic life, have a tendency, when deprived of this bond, to separate from each other, and to enter into new combinations. This is a law of nature. Organic bodies come into existence, live their allotted time, and die. If nothing retards the usual course of things, they then pass into other states, and the tangible sub- stances of which they consist are made to form the corporeal part of other living beings. Man, whose present existence demands the use of some portion of matter which is in the act of passing from one state to another, contrives various methods of arresting it in its progress to decay, and rendering it in the meantime subservient to his wants. 4409. TTte inevitable change to which dead organic matter is liable is called fermentation, of which we pointed out in a former part of this work, that there are several kinds, the vinous, the acetous, and the putrefactive. By the two first useful products are obtained; but the last is that complete change termed decomposition, by which the substance is entirely resolved into the inanimate materials of which it had been originally composed, and the greater part of which are finally, if left to themselves, dissipated in the atmo- sphere in the form of ofiensive and noxious gases. These changes do not take place precisely in the same manner in animal as in vegetable substances. Although vegetables generally go through more than one of the stages just mentioned, and sometimes through all three, yet the flesh of animals can pass at once into the putrefactive state. 4410. We have previousli/staled that animal bodies differ from vegetables in their compo- sition : the former always have a large quantity of nitrogen as one of their elementary principles, whereas nitrogen enters in a small proportion as a constituent in vegetables. When animal bodies undergo the putrefactive fermentation, or putrefaction, their ele- ments, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon, separate from each other, and combine again in the following manner. The carbon absorbs ox3'gen from the atmosphere and forms carbonic acid; one portion of the hydrogen forms water with the oxygen ; another portion, uniting with the nitrogen, composes ammonia; of the rest of the hydrogen some