RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Chap. I. 883 3 L 2 ScBSECT. 2. — Veal. 4961. Fillet of veal boiled. — Fill the centre, the bone being removed, with stuffing si- milar to that used for boiled turkey. Allow one quarter of an hour to a pound, and twenty minutes over, for the boiling of this joint. After the water boils, scum carefully, and let it only simmer, keeping the meat covered by adding hot water, or it will become brown. Tlie beauty of this dish depends on delicacy in the colour of the meat. A sauce must be formed by taking out a pint of the broth which has been made in boiling ; this must be thickened with good cream, butter, and flour, and flavoured with mushroom cat- sup and mushroom powder or mushroom buttons. If cream be not at hand for thickening the broth, a sauce may be made by mingling tlie yolks of two eggs with flour, butter, and broth. 4962. Boiled knuckle of veal. — As veal is insipid, it is a meat seldom boiled. The knuckle, however, being chiefly composed of cartilage, is occasionally boiled, and re- quires stewing to render it fit for eating. It is sometimes boiled with rice, and the gravy drawn from it is flavoured with onions, a little mace, and a few peppercorns. With the broth half a pint of cream or milk may be mixed, and the whole, meat, rice, and broth, served together in a tureen. If sent up separately, the veal will require a sauce of parsley and butter, as well as the accompaniment of boiled bacon, on a separate dish. • 4963. Ve(d stewed. — Divide part of a breast of veal into portions, and fry it of a nice brown in clarified butter. Put a quaj-t of green peas into a stew-pan, pour on them some melted buttei-, and let them gently stew with some green onions, parsley, and cabbage lettuce; when sufficiently tender, add some veal gravy, put in the pieces of veal and stew them gently. Season with salt, pepper, or cayenne, and add a tea-spoonful of powdered sugar. If you prefer it, you may pass the vegetables through a tamis, reduce the pulp, add the yolk of an egg and a spoonful of cream ; in this case the pieces of veal may be glazed, and fried bread served round the dish. 49G4. Slewed veal cutlets. — Cut a piece of the fillet into three p.irts and trim from them all the skin. Stew all the trimmings with carrot and onions to make a light gravy, then add a little broth or warm water ; add spice if approved, put in the pieces of veal and stew them for two hours. Thicken the gravy and pour over them. 4965. Tlie fillet of veal is most commonly roasted, being previously stuffed either in the flap or in the space in the centre from which the bone has been taken. Veal, being a dry meat, requires constant basting either with butter, beef dripping, or suet. It must be roasted thorouyhh/ (under-done veal being neither wholesome nor agreeable) and of a nice brown. When dished, half a pint of melted butter, sometimes mixed with a brown gravy, is poured over it Curry sauce in a tureen may also be served with it. Bacon, or fried pork sausage balls, with greens, are amongst the accompaniments of roasted veal. 4966. Loin of veal roasted. — The loin is never stufied, but simply roasted and served with melted butter poured over it, with bacon and greens as separate dishes. The fat at one end and the chump at the other should both be protected for an hour from the full heat of the fire by being covered with paper. 4967. Shoulder of veal roasted. — The knuckle is taken off just above the joint, and on the upper side a stuffing, .such as with the fillet, is laid under the loose skin, skewered down. The joint is then roasted, and served with gravy or melted butter. 4968. Breast of veal, roasted. — Cut off the thin end and roast scarcely more than ac- cording to the common allowance of time. Baste constantly, or the skin becomes dry and hard. When served, ponr melted butter or gravy over it, and put toasted bread under the kidneys. Accompaniments—bacon, greens, French beans, &c. 4969. Brea.it of veal roasted with oyster-sauce. — Roast a breast of veal in a caul; when nearly done remove the caul that it may become lightly brown, glaze it, and serve it up with oyster sauce seasoned with cayenne pepper and lemon-juice. 4970. Broiled veal cutlets. — Let the veal be cut of an equal thickness, and divide it mto portions convenient to help at table. Dip the pieces into beaten egg, and cover them, but not too thickly, with chopped herbs, as parsley, mushrooms, and a little grated lemon- peel; strew over them crumbs of bread, and broil them of a fine brown. Broil some thin slices of bacon. Make ready a sauce with butter and flour melted brown, moisten it with veal gravy and a little cavice; when it is intimately mixed, throw in some pickled button mushrooms and pour the sauce quite hot over the cutlets ; let the slices of bacon be placed round the dish. If lemon-juice be required, it may be added at table. 4971. fea/ chops. — Cut the chops from the loin with a slice of the kidney and a portion of the fnt. Broil of a light brown, and send it up very hot, but not burnt. By many, veal alone is consiilerod insipid, and this dish is consider.ibly improved by the following method : Meat some le.in of dressed ham in a mortiir, with a little (if the kidney fat, adil chopped parsley, some parings of mushrooms, and an eschalot, with pepper and salt; when intimately beaten, bind it together with the yolk of an egg. Secure this forced nii'at and broil It with the chop in buttered paper. For sauce, melted butter, button mushrooms pickled, and a tca-siioonful of lemon-julco. 4972. Veal olives. — Cut some thin slices of bacon or ham, and lay on thciu slices of