Book V. 268 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 1195. Half tester bedsteads are another variety of beds to turn up during the day to gain room. The bedstead, fig. 407., when turned up, is inclosed within curtains drawn round it, and which are hung to a small tester, from which the name. They are not quite so shut up from the air as the press bedstead, but they have always the appearance of a bed. The valance may how- ever be made more orna- ' mental by festoons, fringe, or scollops. Fig. 408. is another turn-up bed to ap- pear as a narrow tent bed when put up. 1196. Press bedsteads are made to shut up, when not in use, into a press which is gene- rally low, and sometimes made to imitate a chest of drawers, or a cabinet. They are convenient, in certain situations, as occupying little room, and not having the appearance of a bed ; they are therefore useful in small rooms, where an ordinary bed could not be put. But they are liable to this objection, that as the bedding is folded up in them during the day, it does not get so well aired as is requisite. Also from the numerous joints and crevices in the wood-work, they are more liable to harbour vermin, and are more difficult to keep clean than other beds ; they are therefore not to be recommended, except through necessity. K they are used, the construction that has the fewest joints in the wood-work is preferable. Fig. 409. represents a press bedstead turned down ; the bed is placed upon the usual sacking, and the bedstead folds up in three lengths, the feet also folding down; the bed, bedclothes, bolster, and piUow, are put in over it, and when the doors are shut, the top (which is best in one piece, fi-amed if of deal, though usually made in two pieces,) shuts down over them. If this bedstead is to imitate a chest of drawers, instead of the folding doors, one door only must be made, having the external side to imitate drawers with handles, or if it should be inconvenient to hinge it, it may be made a separate piece to take off altogether in the night. ^Vhere there is sufficient room, instead of making this press bedstead so low as to be only of the height of a chest of drawers, a better plan is to make it go into a press six or seven feet high, by which only one joint is required in the bedstead, as in the half tester bed. fig. 407.; the bed may be made in the morning, and strapped down before it is turned up, so as to be ready to sleep in on turning it down in the evening. The low press bed may also be made to imitate a dressing table, or chest of drawers, covered with a toilet cover. 1197. Chair beds are convenient, as affording the means of accommodating an acci- dental visiter, when all the other beds are occupied. They are frequently so complicated as soon to be out of order. Fig. 410. represents one free from that objec- tion, and at the same time forming a complete arm chair. The bed frame folds up into the seat of the chair ; and the mattress is made in three pieces, two of which are used in the seat, and the other one in the back. The light frame on the top is to support curtains if required, and it slides down into the back, the top being closed by a narrow hinged fillet.