Book VII. 464 ON FOOD. Francis Drake and Sir John Hawkins before the common potato; but, though it is cul- tivated in other parts of Europe, our climate was found to be too cold for its growth in the open air. SuBSECT. 2.—Jerusalem Artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus. Linn.). 2469. Notwithstanding the name, this plant is no way allied to the articlioke, but is of the same genus as the sunflower, and much resembles it. The term Jerusalem is a corruption of girasole, the Italian name for sunflower ; and it derives the appellation of artichoke from some agreement of its taste with that of artichoke bottoms. The root, which is the part that is eaten, consists of a cluster of tubers in shape somewhat like the potato; and there are often thirty or forty together. It is a native of Brazil, having been brought to England in 1G17 ; and, before potatoes were so generally adopted, was much in use. It was at first called the Canada potato, to distinguish it from the common potato, which was called the Virginian potato, to which it was at first greatly preferred. It is whole- some and of an agreeable taste, though it is never dry and mealy like the potato, but rather moist and soft in its texture; and, when they do not disagree, they are nutritious. They are extremely productive, and succeed in almost every soil: when once planted, being a hardy perennial, they will continue to flourish without requiring much manure or attention. They likewise form a nutritive food for horses, hogs, &c., containing much farinaceous matter. SuBSECT. 3. — Yam (Dioscorea sativa, Linn.). 2470. This tuberose root is extensively cultivated in the TVest Indies, Africa, America, and the East Indies, where it is eaten, roasted or boiled, as a substitute for bread. Its taste nearly resembles that of the potato, but it is rather sweeter, and of a firmer texture. The root is flat, and often palmated or divided somewhat like fingers, and about a foot across ; a variety called the winged yam is three feet long, and weighs thirty pounds. It is a native of India, where it grows in the woods, and was carried to the West Indies. It is sometimes imported into this country, but rather as an article of curiosity. When fresh, it contains an acrid juice, which causes itching if applied to the skin ; but, by heat, this acrid principle is wholly dissipated; and, as it contains a great deal of farinaceous matter, it forms a light, nutritious, and palatable food, either boiled or roasted. Yams are also made into puddings. In Otaheite, a favourite dish is made of them with scraped cocoa-nut and the pulpy fruit of the banana. SiTBSECT. 4. — Turnip (_Brassica rapa. Linn.), 2471. Turnips grow wild in England, but these cannot by cultivation be brought to resemble exactly the cultivated vegetable. It is said that they were brought here from Hanover. Turnips contain mucilage, little or no gluten, but a good deal of sugar, though the quantity of the latter varies exceedingly, and is not so considerable as in the carrot. The quantity of nutritious matter, upon the whole, in turnips is small; according to Sir H. Davy only 42 parts in 1000. They are an exceUent culinary vegetable, much used all over Europe, and are either eaten alone, mashed, or cooked in soups and stews. A hot climate does not seem to agree with them; and in India they and many of our garden vegetables lose their flavour, and are comparatively tasteless. The Swedish is the largest variety, but too coarse for the table ; it is excellent for cattle. The green leaves of the turnip, gathered young in the spring, make good greens, well known by the name of turnip tops. The leaves for greens are good from any of the varieties, but are less acrid from the Swedish. Turnips grown in the field will be found of a better flavour than those produced in the garden ; and the same remark applies to all the brassica tribe, with the exception of the cauliflower and broccoli, as also to potatoes and tuberose roots. 2472. The French navet is a variety of turnip {Brassica tiapus esculenta), but has more the shape of the carrot. It is of a very fine flavour, and is much esteemed on the Con- tinent for soups and made dishes. Two or three of them will give as much flavour as a dozen common turnips ; stewed in gravy it forms an excellent dish. The peculiar flavour resides in the rind; consequently this is not cut off, but only scraped. The navet was once grown here; at present it is seldom to be found in our gardens, though very deserving of being cultivated. It is of a yellowish white colour, and resembles the carrot in form. It is often on the Continent served up with them as ornamental on account of the contrast of colour. It is sometimes imported to the London market. SuBSECT. 5. — Carrot (Daucus carota. Linn.). 247.3. A wild carrot grows in England in sandy soils, but it is small, white, and stringy, and of a strong flavour. Our garden carrot was introduced by the Flemish refugees who