142 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. Whale oil was not tried, as it was not to be had in Bavaria, where the Count then resided. Ger). The following table gives the result of experiments made by Dr. Ure, to determine the relative intensity of the light, and the duration of several sorts of tallow candles. Number in a Pound. Duration of a Candle. Wciglit in Grains. (""r* n CI I lYi i nn per Hour in Grains. Proportions of Liglit. Economy of Light. Candles equal to one Argand. 10 mould - 5h. 9m. 682 132 12^ 13 10^ 14§ 68 5-7 10 dipped - 8 mould - 4 36 6 31 672 856 150 132 65J 59i 5- 25 6- G 6 do. - 7 2^ 1160 • 163 66 ■ 5-0 4 do. Argand oil flame - 9 36 1787 186 512 20J 69-4 80 100 3-5 Dr. Ure farther observes that a Scotch mutchkin, or one eighth of a gallon of good seal oil, weighs 6010 grs., or IS^L oz. avoirdupois, and lasts in a bright Argand's lamp 11 hours and 44 minutes. The weight of oil it consumes per hour is equal to four times the weight of tallow in candles, 8 to the pound, and 3| times the weight of tallow in candles, 6 to the pound. But its light being equal to that of 5 of the taUow candles, it is a much cheaper illuminating power than tallow candles : the exact proportion will depend upon the materials at the time. 666. It is often required to determine the relative proportions of the light given by two illu- minating bodies ; for instance, to compare the degree of light aftbrded by an Argand's lamp, and candles ; or to compare the light of two diiferent kinds of candles with each other. We can judge pretty well by the eye whether two lights be equal or not ; but ■when they are unequal, it is not possible to determine by the eye alone, in what propor- tion one light is more intense than the other. Instruments, however, capable of eifecting this, have been invented, and these are called photometers. The simplest of these is that in- vented by Count Rumford, and which is described in the Philosophical Transactions for 1794. Though one invented by Prof. Leslie is still more delicate, but Rumford's is more simple, not requiring the purchase of any instrument; and, by experiments of Mr. Nicholson, it has been shown, that by it the degree of illumination can be easily ascertained within an 80th or 90th of the whole, a degree of accuracy sufficient for all ordinary purposes. 667. We therefore describe the Jim ford photometer as that which is the most convenient for common use. Place the two lights that are to be compared at exactly equal heights upon two small tables or stands in a room that is darkened, and let a flat sheet of white paper, or a white cloth be hung up at six or eight feet from the lights : if the wall be made use of for the paper, then the lights must be six or eight feet from the wall. Take now a small cylinder of wood, or any other substance about half an inch in diameter (for the exact size is not material), and hold it up between the lights and the paper, and about three inches distant from the latter. It is evident that by this, two shadows will fall upon the paper, occasioned by the two lights. If the lights be exactly equal, the two shadows will be of the same degree of intensity or darkness : but if one light be greater than the other, then the shadows will difier in their degree of intensity ; that is, one ■will appear darker than the other. By moving the cylinder further from and nearer to the paper, this difference will be better perceived. It will foimd that the light which is the strongest has produced the darkest shadow, and it is necessary to bring both the shadows of the same degree of shade or darkness : to effect this, move the light that casts the strongest shadow further from the paper, and it will seem that its shadow will grow fainter, and if moved too far, it will be fainter than the other : keep moving it backwards and forwards until both shadows are exactly of the same colour or intensity. When both shadows are exactly equal, which will be best judged of by keeping quite close together, measure the distances which the lights now are from the paper. Suppose, for instance, that the weakest light should be 4 feet from the paper, and it had been found necessary to remove the stronger one to 8 feet from the paper to get the shadows equal; square the two distances, that is, multiply 4 by 4, which will give 16, and 8 by 8, which will give 64 : then the real intensity of the stronger light will be to that of the weaker light in the proportion of 64 to 16, or a-s 4 to 1. Instead of a cylinder of wood, any object held up will do ; and this method of measuring two lights is so simple, that it may be practised by any person, and in any place. It may be necessary to explain the cause of the difT'crence in the intensity of the shadows produced by two unequal lights. To under- stand this, it must be observed, that though we speak of a body casting a shadow, yet a shadow is not anything real, but merely the part that is deprived of light. If only one candle or lamp had been used, there would have been a single shadow, and that shadow would be simply the part of the paper which was deprived of the light of the luminous body, which illuminated distinctly all the rest of the paper. If a more powerful luminous body