Chap. VI. FISH. 419 E e 2 as the fish, in its swiftest progress, is utterly incapable of movln); at a rate so rnnJd as the term allowcj for those migrations would require. IMany interesting facts and obsi!rvations on this subject may bo found in Dr. M'Culloch's " Description of the Western Islands of Scotland." That they do move about in wandering shoals, like many other fish, is certain; but what renders it improbable that they come from the polar regions, as has been imagined, is, that they have not been observed there by our navigators. .Tlieir movements appear to be extremely capricious ; for many of the deep bays of the west of Scotland and Ireland, which they fre- quent at one time, are entirely deserted in another year without any obvious cause—a circumstance which sometimes proves ruinous to the inh.ibitants of fishing st.ations. 2182. Besidi-s the great quantUivs of this fish cunsumcd at home, in afresh state, much more inured with sail and exported. It has been st.ited th.it tlie Hollanders were (lie first who began tlie fishery of herrings on an extensive scale, and observed the several seasons of tlieir pjissage, about 1163 ; but it is recorded in the Batavian annals, th,at the Scotch sold their herrings to the inhabitants of the Netherlands as early as the ninth century; and this traffic laid the foundation of a commercial alliance between the two countries which subsisted for many ages. The Yarmouth fishery appears to have had its commencement soon al'ter the landing of Cerdic the Saxon in 495; and the inhabitants of this town were long considered as the best curers in Europe. They had an adv.mtage over the Dutch in being nearer to the herring shoals, and in possessing plenty of wood to smoke them, which is extremely scarce in Holland. Willoughby, in his " History of Fishes," ascribes the art of curing herrings by salt to William Beukelz, a Fleming, who died in 1397 ; and the term pickling is supposed to be derived irom him. Yarmouth, however, puts in a prior claim to this .art. It is recorded that, in \'2'2Q, the abbot of St. .\lb.an's purchased a large house m Yarmouth, *' in order to lay up fish, especially herrings, which were bought by his agents at the proper season for the use of his abbey." Prior to 12.38, the inhabitants of the opposite coast of Europe were In the habit of resorting to Yarmouth for a supply of this fish. These and other recorded facts show that the method of preserving herrings, probably by salt, must have been known in England more than 200 years before Beukelz. 2183. TTie principal British herring fisheries are on the west and east sides of Scotland and the west of Ireland; the herrings fished in England are comparatively inconsiderable. Yarmouth and LowestofFe are the principal places; and very large quantities are also caught at the mouth of the Thames by the fishing smacks of London, Folkestone, Dover, &c. for the London markets, and near the coast of Kent and Siissex for general consump- tion. 2184. As food, fresh herrings, though rather oily, form a very good aliment if used moderately ; but that is not the case -with pickled and salt herrings ; these are only fit for those whose powers of digestion are very strong: in small quantities, with plenty of pota- toes or other vegetables, they are less objectionable. Red herrings are used less as food than as a luxury. They excite thirst, and tend to create fever. For the methods of curing herrings, see Book X. " Preservation of Food." SuBSECT. 22.— The Pilchard (Clupanodun pilchardus, T.inn.). 2185. The pilchard is somewhat allied in general appeai-ance to the herring, but is thicker or of a less compressed form, the back more elevated, and the scales much larger in pro- portion. It is also a smaller fish than the herring, but larger than the anchovy, rarely exceeding the length of eight inches. Its geographical distribution is much more limited than the herring; instead of being found on every part of the British coast, like that fish, it occurs in this country in great numbers only on the shores of Devon and Cornwall. It likewise requires a warmer climate than the herring, abounding in the Mediterranean, and the coasts of Dalmatia, from which Greece and Italy are partly supplied. Pilchards appear usually in vast shoals off the Cornish coasts about the middle of July, and dis- appear in the beginning of winter, though a few return again after Christmas. Their winter retreat is supposed to be the same as that of the herring in the deep sea. 2186. Tlie pilchard fishery is a very productive concern on the coast of Cornwall, where these fish are cured, with salt, for exportation. Their appearance on the coast, and their term of remaining, is irregular ; but when they come, they often appear in shoals so large and dense as almost to exceed belief. The shoals, either when pursued by enemies or from other causes, crowd occasionally into bays and harbours in enormous quan- tities. In 1767 there were taken in St. Ive's Bay .3000 hogsheads of pilchards, each hogshead containing 3500 fish; at another time 10,000 hogsheads were caught at one time. In Cornwall, besides the great number of persons employed in the fishery, and curing the fish with salt for exportation, the poor are fed by them, and a large quantity is generally left, sufficient to supply a valuable manure for the land. The pilchard is a fat oily fish, more so than the herring, and oil is extracted from them ; but the Cornish people, never- theless, use them as food, and many prefer them to the herring. They make a pilchard pie in the following manner. They clean the white part of some large leeks, scald them in milk and water, and place them in layers in a dish, putting between each layer two or three salted pilchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before ; thawhole is then covered with a good plain crust: on taking the pie out of the oven, the side crust is lifted up with a knife, and all the liquor being emptied out, its place is supplied with half a pint of scalded cream. Pilchards are not brought to London as such, but the young fry are often sold for anchovies.