1252 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. ache, delirium, or a kind of stupor, and a most distressing diarrhoea, -which speedily ex- hausts the patient, and reduces him to the last degree of emaciation; and then thrush about the mouth, -which ensues, is extremely tormenting. Fortunately, however, con- sumption does not always have a course so painful to the patient, and so distressing to the witnesses : in some cases, though perhaps not in the majority, the cough is not so constant and violent; the breathlessness is less ; the -weakness is progressive and sure, but never makes rapid advances ; the emaciation goes on slo-wly ; the appetite and the digestion con- tinue good ; no diarrhoea or thrush torments the patient, and as an excellent writer on this subject describes it, " it is an easy descent, facilis desce7isus; the patient sinks step by step, and gentle is the parting of the last filament, -when the body sinks to earth, and the soul rises to eternity." (Dr. C. J. B. Williams.) 7334. One characteristic of consumption has been often described by medical writers, and noticed -with -wonder by the attendants ; it is an extreme hopefulness of mind : many patients firmly believe they shall recover, even -when in the last stage; no amount of experience can eradicate this, and undoubtedly no o-iWcould -wish to have such a belief eradicated. We have described above two forms of consumption, differing greatly in severity, and our chief object in so doing was to mention, that in many cases, though not in all, it is possible to change a case which at first threatened to be severe into a milder form; of course in many instances, from the great excitability of the patient, the extreme liability to tuberculous deposits, or from the advanced period of the complaint, such a change is impossible, but, fortunately, sometimes if the diarrhoea and pains in the bowels can be put a stop to, the remainder of life is comparatively tranquil, and free from dis- tressing symptoms. Therefore, if the patient begin to complain of shooting pains in the abdomen, or if there be a diarrhoea commencing, a mustard poultice should be applied, and repeated every six hours, and the physician should be apprised of the state of things: if the pain be in one spot, a small blister, about the size of the palm of the hand, or smaller if the pain occupy less space, may be put on, and this measure sometimes gives great re- lief. The diet also should be changed; animal food, if it be taken, should be left oflF for a few days, and mild farinaceous articles alone taken; but of course all these details must be left to the attending physician. 7335. In the latter stages of consumption, thrush often makes its appearance on the lips, tongue, and inside of the cheeks; the appearance of this in children has been already described; and the measures applicable in that case, as bora.x with honey or water, are useful also in this instance. Very little can be done for the delirium or the stupor, both of which are the immediate precursors of death ; life seldom continues more than a fort- night after the former has commenced. Many patients have no delirium or stupor, but die suddenly in a paroxysm of coughing. Sect. V. COURSE TO BE PURSUED BY NURSES IN CASES OF PALSY. 7336. In palsy one side of the body loses its power of motion, either wholly or in great part, and with or without loss of sensation ; or the loss of motion may be confined to both the legs, and the rest of the body remain unaffected. The former case {hemiplegia) is the more common complaint of the two, although both are far from rare ; yet it some- times follows a stroke of apoplexy, that is to say, when a person recovers from the stupor of apoplexy, he finds he has lost all power over one side of the body, and that his face is drawn to the opposite side; or loss of motion suddenly occurs without loss of consciousness, and this is popularly termed " a stroke of palsy." Palsy msly, however, occur gradually, a degree of feebleness being first noticed ; and this is called, both popularly and medically, " creeping palsy." 7337. In this form of the complaint, the patient should at first be kept quiet, and the skin of the affected side should be well washed with warm water every day, and then well dried ; and it is a good plan to rub it well with a horse-hair glove, unless there be some particular reason why this should not be done. As soon as possible, the patient should be encouraged to make what use he can of the arm and leg, and if he be quite incapable of any motion, it is a good plan for the nurse or attendants themselves to move the arm and leg every day for about the space of an hour ; this prevents the muscles from wasting so rapidly as they would otherwise do from want of use. If a seton be inserted into the back of the neck, the part should after an hour or two be covered with a linseed-meal poultice ; this lessens the irritation caused by the seton. 7338. In the other form of the disease, that in -which the legs are palsied (paraplegia), and which generally arises from disease of the spinal marrow, the position of the patient must be carefully attended to; if the case be a tedious one, the back is liable to become sore and ulcerated, and this should always be noticed, and if any indications of approach- ing ulcerations be apparent, the same remedies should he used as were recommended for the same condition in typhus fever. The muscles should be exercised in this case also every day by the attendants. If issues are made in the back, it is necessary to