71 i:uAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. luence of being disengaged when there was not flame to reach it. All these rise into the rtmosphere with the smoke from a chimney, and do not come into the apartment. In this description of coal by combustion, we have supposed it to be perfectly pure ; but ^5 all coal contains more or less, likewise, of earthy matters not combustible, these remain, fter the combustion is finished, in the state of ashes ; of course, the more impure the coal, hae more ashes will be left. 319. We shall not here enter upon the inquiry, in what manner is tlie heat generated by the irrocess of combustion ? as this remains one of the mysteries in nature's operations not yet hhoroughly understood: it is sufficient to say that-it is developed in consequence of the iiautual action of the fuel and the air upon each other, by which the elements of each are eparated, and made to assume new forms. Some have maintained that the heat is chiefly ontained in the air in a latent state, and is set loose when combustion takes place. However that may be, the heat from combustion evidently appears in two states ; one tart is in the form of radiant heat, which we explained in the article " On Heat," and I'hich is sent oif in all directions from the burning body ; this may be absorbed by the mibstances it strikes upon, or may be reflected from them. The other portion of the ^•enerated heat is combined with the newly formed gases and vapours, which carry it with hhem upwards. This last portion of the heat does not act like the radiant part, but may lae communicated by conduction, to those substances on which the heated gases strike, as nn the case of the flue of a chimney, or a pipe through which the smoke rises, or is made 00 pass. S0BSECT. 2.—Construction of Chimney Fire-places. 320. A chimney fire-place is a recess in the wall a b,fig. 53., for the fire with a flue over it, ihhat reaches to the top of the house for the exit of the FBmoke. The sides of the recess are called the jaimibs 'i)f the chimney ; and the top at the opening, or mantle, ::, is generally covered by an iron bar with a flat arch nover it, concealed by an ornamental chimney piece. J Just above this opening, the funnel is contracted to the poroper size of the flue, shown by the dotted line, and ihhe contraction is called the throat of the chimney, d. 'IThe horizontal section of the flue is usually oblong, not kess than fourteen inches by ten inches, to admit of the I'process of sweeping. Flues are also occasionally made ('Cylindrical. 321. When wood and peat were the only kinds of fuel mn use, chimneys were made very large, and the wood was htanrnt upon irons called dogs laid upon the hearth, a few of which may still be seen in old man- ssions. About fifty years ago, when coal had come into general use, grates for burning it in iwere universal; but though the chimneys were considerably contracted, the throats were still yvery wide, as appears at e in the section, and the jaumbs remained at right angles to the t'front, as shown in the plan a b, the consequence of which was, that the smoke was fre- Hquently .sent back into the apartment; and that intolerable nuisance, a smoky chimney, was \-very common ; while a great part of the air, that was just warmed by the fire, made its (■escape through the wide throat, producing a proportional current of cold air towards the tifire-place. In consequence of this, a person near the fire had one side heated and the lOther cooled ; added to which, the fires were kept in the grates so high up from the floor, I'that the feet were always immersed in a stratum of cold air that covered the lower part of 1 the room. 322. In this state our chimney fire-places tuere found by the celebrated Count Bumford, ito whom we are under infinite obligations for teaching the true principles upon which ! they ought to be constructed. Since that time, a great reformation has taken place in I this part of our domestic economy, and our open fires are rrendered far more effective in warming our apartments, jand have become more comfortable and elegant, as well jas more economical, in point of fuel. 323. The principal improvements effected by Count Itum- Iford in our chimneys are shown by the plan, g, fig. 54., ele- ivation, h, and section,/, of a chimney. 1. He brought t the back of the fire-place farther forward into the room I by building another brick back within Ihe old chimney. : 2. He placed the jaumbs inclined, as in the plan and (elevation h, that they might reflect more heat into the I room. 3. By bringing the grate forward, and raising I the new back up above the mantle, the throat of the • chimney was much contracted, as in the section /'; F 4 I Fig. 53. 3^ III