I Chap. X. 511 SPICES. 1 both peninsulas : it is also cultivated extensively in Malabar, and the eastern islands, : Sumatra, Java, Borneo, and those which are near. It was formerly known only as the : growth of these countries, the whole globe being supplied from them; but it has been lately i introduced into Cayenne. The berries grow in spikes of from twenty to thirty, are at I first green, and when ripe they are of a bright red colour. After being gathered, which 1 they are while green, they are spread out on mats with their skins on and dried in the sun : I thus they become black and more or less shrivelled. Those which are least ripe, and in I the fittest state for gathering, shrivel the least; but when they are more ripe, they often i shrivel up entirely, or contain nothing but dust. The goodness of pepper is tried by 1 rubbing it between the hands, and what is easily reduced to powder is unsound and bad. 2845. White pepper is not the produce of a separate plant as was once supposed, but is I made from the black by steeping it in lime and water and rubbing it between the hands I till the coats come off, the powerful acrid oil residing chiefly in the skins. As it is only I the best grain that will bear this operation, the white pepper is the superior kind and : fetches a higher price : it is of course milder than the black, and is much prized in China, ' but little of it is brought to England. Pepper is sometimes sold in the shops ground, and 1 then it is often sophisticated, the black with burnt bread, and the white with rice flower. 2846. Pepper is very generally employed as a condiment, and from its promoting the I secretion of the gastric juice, it aids the digestive powers of the stomach, sometimes ; rendered necessary in our artificial mode of living; but, even in small quantities, it is ■ hurtful in inflammatory habits. The quantity of pepper imported into Europe is quite ■ enormous. 2847. According to the analysis of Pelletier, pepper contains a peculiar substance called jpiperiiM; a concrete acrid oil; a volatile oU ; starch ; malic and uric acids, and lignin. The I oil of pepper is too pungent to be tasted ; applied to the skin it reddens and inflames it : ! from which we may comprehend the effect upon the palate and stomach. 2848. Long pepper is produced by a different plant {Piper Icmgum), growing in the same 1 countries. It is less aromatic than the black, but the oil is still more pungent. 2849. Cayenne pepper is a very diflerent substance, and is the most heating and stimu- I lating spice with which we are acquainted, being extremely pungent and acrid, setting ! the mouth, as it were, on fire. It is powder prepared from several varieties of the Cap- ; sicum, which are annual plants, natives of both the Indies, where they are used in large ' quantities both with vegetable and animal food; and from these countries we have borrowed their use. There are three varieties of capsicum, all natives of tropical climates, but which have been so far naturalised in this country as to bear in the open air in summer. Guinea pepper (C. annum) was introduced into England from India so early as 1548. The plant rises about two feet, and has white flowers succeeded by pods, which, when ripe, : are yellow or red. Cherry pepper (C. cerasiforme) was brought from the West Indies in 1759. It is very like the last, only its pods are generally round like cherries. Bell , pepper (C grossum) produces the largest pods, and is therefore generally preferred. The pods of all these, when ripe, are extremely hot in their taste; and when in their green state they are used as a pickle, and called chillies with us. When ripe, they are ground into the condiment called cayenne pepper; but the best of this we have from the West Indies ready prepared, and it is made from the C. baccatum or bird pepper, so called because much eaten by birds, as hens and turkeys, which are extremely fond of it The East Indian cayenne is prepared in a verj* careless manner, and has often a dirty brown colour. To improve the colour, by making it red, a colouring substance is sometimes added, and Accum has stated that he had detected red lead, which is a poison: With us capsicums or chillies are ripe in September or October, and the pods are easily pounded in a mortar, ; after being dried before the fire. They may be purchased in Covent Garden market. About one-fourth their weight of salt is mixed with them in the mortar to prevent the dust i getting to the eyes. Dr. Kitchener states that this is the only way to have genuine ■ cayenne, and that the English has a finer flavour than the foreign, though not half the i heat. 2850. This powerful spice has become a necessary article at table, and is much esteemed : for its flavour, and the quality which it is supposed to possess of promoting the digestion ■ of fish and other kinds of food. But it may be doubtful if the practice is conducive to health ; for though Cayenne pepper, like highly-flavoured Indian soys, may occasionally 1 assist digestion, it would perhaps be better that invalids should abstain from food requiring i a vigorous stomach, than to employ artificial stimulants. 2851. The dish called Man-dran in the West Indies, which is resorted to for exciting : an appetite, and which is said to be sure to do so in the most languid state of the digestive ' organs, is a mixture of bird-pepper, shallots or onions cut small, a little lime juice, Madeira wine, and sliced cucumbers.