1029 Chap. I. MANAGEMENT OF THE HAIR. hair greasy, but injures it. There is a natural oil secreted by the hair, which serves to keep it in good order; sometimes this is defective, and the hair becomes dry and harsh ; it is then proper to supply the deficiency by a little pomatum or oil. The use of these •'ives to hair a fine gloss, just in the same way as a mahogany table is made to shine by rubbino- it with wax, which fills up all the minute cavities with a smooth substance. A mul- titude of hair-oils are sold by the perfumers under specious names, their compositions being kept secret; and each of them is said to have extraordinary qualities. Most of those which are advertised are expensive, and persons who have tried them agree that their pretended virtues are extravagantly over-rated. The oil of behn is that which is best adapted for the purpose, having no odour of its own, and not being liable to become rancid. 6103. The oil of behn is used m perfiimery as the basis for receiving the fragrant scents of various flowers, which yield little or no essential oil by distillation, but impart their fragrance to expressed oils. This oil is prepared in Egypt, Syria, and Italy, from the nut of Guilandia moringa. On standing some time it separates into two parts ; one forms the basis of the fragrant oils, and the other is valuable for the clock-maker, as it does not freeze in the severest cold. It is merely a very pure oil, and when a little perfume of some kind is added, it forms the oils which are sold under the title of huiles antiques, scented with orange flowers, violets, jessamine, roses, bergamot, citron, rosemary, lavender, &c. Those who wish to be economical may substitute purified hogs' lard, in which a few drops of some essence, such as that of bergamot, has been added. Olive oil becomes rancid, and is improper. When hair is allowed to grow very long without cutting, it is observed that it splits at the points, which injures its growth ; an inch or two should then be cut off. Curling is best effected in the usual way, by papering. Using hot irons is apt to injure the hair ; and the curling fluids so confidently advertised have but a very temporary effect, and are injurious. 6104. When hair has become greasy from the too free use of oil or pomatum, it is proper to remove the unctuous matter by good brushing. Occasionally soap is resorted to. or even a weak alkaline ley ; but these must be employed with caution, and sparingly, for soap used too often will change the colour of the hair; and as it is a weU-known fact that a strong alkaline ley will actually dissolve hair and wool, the incautious use of it, therefore, must be very liable to produce some injurious effects. A little white soap dis- solved in spirits of wine is most effectual, and less injurious than soap alone. After this the hair must be well washed with water. 6105. The plentiful growth and agreeable appearance of hair is usually promoted by general health and simple management; and more dependence may be placed on them than on any arts which the perfumer may pretend to. 6106. The loss of hair which occasions baldness is a usual effect of old age ; but it takes place not unfrequently at earlier periods of Ufe. Premature loss of hair is indicative of some derangement of the bodily system, by which the ordinary functions of the skin are in a defective state. The causes of this may be various, and are not easily investigated. It is a very common result of acute fevers, and even of strong mental excitement. Though the hair has begun to come off, this effect will sometimes cease with the return of perfect health ; and whatever can restore the proper action of the skin will contribute most effectually to preserve the hair. But when baldness has actually taken place for some time, it may well be doubted whether any application can re-produce hair upon the part from which it has disappeared, particularly after the person has advanced to a certain time of life. This defect is almost peculiar to men ; women, at an advanced age, though their hair becomes white, are seldom affected with this disease. When the hair is observed beginning to come off, the defect is frequently owing to a dryness of the skin, and some want of nourishment at the roots; in that case a little good pomatum or purified hogs' lard may check the evil, and prevent its extending. 6107. In the daily papers are seen numerous advertisements of preparations for re- storing the hair which has fallen off; and we are confidently assured that through their virtues thousands of persons who had been bald are now adorned with luxuriant tresses. It is really amusing to observe how far impudence can go, and credulity can lead to being duped ; and one would imagine that the extravagant style and gross ignorance displayed in these puffs would be sufficient to expose them. The best of these nostrums, that is, those which contain nothing deleterious, are little more than some of the ordinary fats or oils we have mentioned, coloured and perfumed, and which any persons may prepare for themselves at one-twentieth of what they cost in the shops, to say nothing of the latter being totally useless as to the purpose for which they are recommended. 6108. Altiiough there is a very general idea that the fat of the bear, or bear's grease, promotes the growth of hair more than any other material, in conse<)uence of the extravagant puffs by which its sale is announced, yet it is in fact no more eflicacious than common pomatum, which it much resembles. Indeed, it is more tlian probable that the greatest part of that which is sold for bear's grease never came from that animal. Real 3 U ■■)