CABINET-MAKER AND TJPHOLSTERER. fBooK V. 177 BOOK V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE, CHAP. L GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 781. The term furniture includes all the articles for common use, and ornament, r^equired in an inhabited house, and may be classed in various ways. They are divided ir.nto fixtures and moveables; the first, being fixed to some part of the building, cannot be esasily removed without injuring it, or causing great inconvenience ; they consequently riremain attached to the house on every change of inhabitant, the new tenant paying the vralue ; or they become the property of the landlord, as may be agreed upon. A list of ibbe fixtures is inserted in every lease. Furniture may likewise be classed according to ihheir several kinds and uses, as tables, chairs, &c.; or according to the apartments in which they are placed, as parlour, bed-room, nursery, &c., furniture. We may likewise sarrange them according to the several trades by which they are prepared, as joiner's "ivork, cabinet work, upholstery, ironmongery, glass, pottery, &c. We shall not adopt [Exclusively either of these modes of classification, but describe the articles, as their connec- [ cion with each other may seem to require. 782. Before we proceed to describe in detail the several articles of furniture in common liise, it will be proper to say something of the several trades by which they are produced, land also of the materials usually employed in their manufacture. CHAP. IT. CABINKT-MAKKR AND UPHOLSTERER. 783. The household furniture that comes under the class of fixtures, such as kitchen i'lressers, shelves, closets, sinks, &c. are made by the joiner in linishing the house ; but the noveable furniture of wood work is chiefly executed by the cabinet-maker and uphol- sterer. As these are the most important trades in, the furnishing a house, some hints •especting them may be usefnl to their employers ; but it is not our intention to enter so :nuch into the subject, as to attempt the instruction of those who practise these several arts. 784. The business of the cabinet maker is, in strictness, different from that of the uphol- uterer : the former being a superior kind of joiner, but who, instead of being employed like the joiner in executing the parts of the building itself, is occupied with the nicer kinds )f furniture made of the finer woods, such as tables, sideboards, chairs, sofas, cabinets of dl kinds, &c. The upholsterer is concerned with certain articles of furniture that do lot belong to this class, as beds and every thing belonging to them, carpets, floor cloths, ' window curtains, &c. But these trades are necessarily so connected in many parts, that ■is far as the public is concerned, the cabinet maker and upholsterer are now often united n the same person. The upholsterer, indeed, seldom himself manufactures the furaiture le sells, but gets the several articles made by persons who, from the subdivision of labour, confine themselves to particular branches : thus there are chair-makers, bedstead-makers, )ed and mattrass makers, cabinet-makers who make tables, sideboards, wardrobes, and )thcr things altogether of wood, &c. A few cabinet-makers and upholsterers, indeed, ^ho are in a large way of business, sometimes employ work-people on their own premises n their several departments, and can thus assure themselves that the articles they undcr- ake to have executed can be depended upon for materials and workmanship: and for his advantage, which requires considerable superintendence, the public pays with justice I higher price. Of the practical skill of our best mechanics in executing the several irticles of cabinet-making, as far as strength and excellence of work are concerned, it is iuflBcient for us to say, that it is not excelled in any part of the world. Before we proceed o the description of the various materials of which furniture is made, we shall take lotice of such of the processes in these branches of art as are necessary to be generally <nown. 78.5. All the parts of some furniture arc made out of solid wood, and it is very important hat this should have been thoroughly dried, or, as it is termed, seasoned; wood not well N