ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. 76 Fig. GO. Book II. more with the Fig. 59. improvement of our 344. Fig. 60. is a liumford grate, the sides and back of which are of artificial stone, made to stand the fire ; the covings of the chimney are first ex- ecuted with the proper angle ; and the grate, being moveable, is simply put into its place, and may be removed when required. There are several advantages attending this arrangement. 345. Fig. 61. and 62. are two of the mmeious grates to be seen in the show-rooms of ironmonyers: the ornaments are in the gorgeous style of the time of Louis XIV., and sometimes of brass. This choice being a matter of taste and fashion, we avoid making any remarks upon it, except that the quantity of metal employed has more than one disadvantage. 346. Fenders and fire-irons have varied in fashion, partly with the style of the grates, bat manufactures. Some of the oldest fenders were made of iron and brass, plain, but with mouldings, and very low, to correspond with the wood fires on the dogs. Since coal burned in grates has been in use, they have been made higher, and are of an infinite variety of patterns. The cheapest fenders have been of tin plate painted, of wire painted, and with iron or brass tops and bottoms, and which are stiU used for bedrooms. A more durable kind has been cut out of sheet iron, and painted iu imitation of iron wire. As iron fenders stain the marble they are placed upon, it is now the custom to raise them in front on a kind of pedestal which slopes to the inside, and the front is supported by claw feet, knobs, or pieces of ornamental foliage, &c. At present the best and most elegant fenders are made of polished steel, enriched with brass, or bronze, to correspond to the style of the grates; and a great many are of cast iron very highly decorated and ornamental. Fenders should not be higher than safety requires, as they thus stop much of the radiant heat of the fire, and that where it is most wanted, namel}', in the lower part of the room, and keep it from the feet : to prevent this, they are always made with some open work. To the fender is usually attached holders for the fire- irons. Sect. II. ■WARMING BY CLOSE STOVES. 347. Close stoves are inclosures of brick, earth- enware, or metal, which contain a fire that heats the stove, and by means of that, the air of the apartment in which it is placed. 348. Stoves differ essentiaUi/from' open fires in their manner of loanning. We stated that open fires act chiefly by giving out radiant heat; on the contrary, there is comparatively little radiant heat from a close stove of any kind : the radiant heat of the fire within the stove is absorbed by the material of which the stove is made, and the latter warms the air of the room in contact with it. This warmed air rises upwards towards the ceiling, and is succeeded by fresh air to be warmed in its turn, and so on, unfil the whole of the air in the apartment has received an increase of temperature. It is evident, therefore, that a stove warms the air upon the same principle as that by which water is Pig- 62. heated in a vessel over a fire.