ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 685 Chap. VIII. spirit certain ingredients for the purpose of giving to it agreeable flavours, or for other uses. Most of these are now generally manufactured in the large way by the rectifier; but their nature and composition are subjects of no small importance to the health of the public, as well as their gratification; and it is on this account chiefly, that we consider it deserving attention, since we believe many of those most interested in them are not well-informed of many facts that should be known. 3873. Impregnating spirits with flavouring substances is a practice of old times, and was frequently done through the idea of giving them a medicinal quality, real or supposed ; hence the name of cordials, yet so frequent in the shops, are insidious terms that serve too often as an excuse for dram-drinking, although it cannot be denied that some of them, judiciously employed on certain occasions, have beneficial eifects. One of the most ancient of these appears to be usquebach or aqtice vita; and Geneva, both Dutch and English, belongs to this class, as well as the vast number of the more elegant foreign compounds designated liqueurs. 3874. Of compound spirits some are made by our rectifiers, and others are importedfrom the Continent; but as it has been always considered a branch of domestic economy to prepare a few of them at home, we shall describe their composition, and the manner of producing them, either to lessen their expense, or for the sake of showing what ingredients they contain. 3875. In all these operations, it is an object with the rectifier, or whoever attempts to form these compounds, first to obtain as pure a spirit as possible, that the natural flavour of the raw spirit may not interfere with the flavours to be communicated. It is not our object to enter into the details of the various processes of the manufacturer who works on the great scale, any further than to give a general idea of the subject; but our directions for those processes which may be carried on at home will be more minute, referring the reader at the same time to Book XX. " On the Still Room," for a variety of information applicable to this, as well as to some other subjects of domestic economy. 3876. Some compound spirits are prepared by putting the spirit together with the flavouring ingredients into the still, applying heat, and drawing off the spirit impregnated. Another class is produced by simply infusing the flavouring materials in the spirit with- out distillation. The latter are sometimes termed ratafias, a name derived from France. SuBSECT. 9. — Geneva and Gin. 3877. The term geneva and gin, the name of a well-known spirit, is derived from genevre, the French for juniper berry. Shaw, in his " Essay on Distilling," infonns us that originally it was a custom to add to the fermenting worts for distilling spirits, some aromatic ingredients to take off the bad flavour, and give a pungent taste to the liquor. Among other things, juniper ben-ies were tried by Sylvius, a professor of Leyden, who lived in the seventeenth century ; and it was found not only that they gave a very agreeable flavour, but likewise communicated valuable medicinal qualities. This liquor was accordingly first sold as a diuretic in the apothecaries' shops; but as it was drunk with avidity, it soon became an article of trade, and received the name of the plant which gave the peculiar flavour. 3878. The original Geneva was made in Holland by grinding berries with the malt before fermentation, and fermenting the whole together, by which the spirit was flavoured with the juniper from the beginning, a method preferable to any other. 3879. TTie English. Geneva was an imitation of that made in Holland, and, like it, was rectified from juniper ; but it having been found out that the oil of juniper and the oil of turpentine were very like each other in flavour, the last being by much the cheapest, our distillers omitted the greatest part of the juniper, using chiefly turpentine. English gin is, therefore, only raw corn spirit and oil of turpentine distilled together by the rectifiers ; occasionally some juniper is added, together with various other ingredients. 3880. Hollands or Dutch Geneva of the best quality is made at Schiedam, but it is like- wise made very good at Delft, Rotterdam, Dordrecht and Weesoppe. 3881. The usual manner of manufacturing it is thus described : — "A quantity of flour of rye, coarsely ground, is mixed with a third or fourth part of barley malt, proportioned to the size of the tub in which the vinous fermentation is to be effected. This they mix with cold water, and then stir it with the hand, to prevent the flour from gathering into lumps, ana to facilitate its dissolution. When this point is attained, water is added, of the heat of the human blood. The whole is well stirred, after which the ferment or yeast is mixed with the wort, being previously diluted with a little of the liciuor. The fermentation generally begins six hours afterwards ; if it commence earlier, there is reason to aiiprehend it will be too strong, and means are employed to check it. If the fermentation be well conducted, it generally terminates on the third day, when the liquor grows transparent, acquires an acrid taste, hot and biting on tlie tongue. The wash is then well stirred, and the miish with all the corn is put into the still, and then commences the first di.'itillatinn, which is conducted very slowly, that being a matter of the utmost importance. This liciuor is then rectiflod over juniper berries once or twice, according to tlie sort of spirit which It is intended to produce. For com- mon use, one rectification is deemed sufllclent, though the spirit is not considered so agreeable as tliat which has undergone several rectifications, and which is called double Geneva. Some distillers mix the juniper berries with the wort, and ferment them together; but in that case they only draw a spirit from it for tlie use of the interior, or for exportiilion to England. An inferior kind of Geneva is made at Weesoppe, with a less proportion of perries, some fennel seeds and Strasburg turpentine.