1100 Book XXII. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. printing. When they are •washed, it is recommended to add twenty drops of oil of vitriol to the gallon of water in which they are dipped after rinsing, to preserve tlie colours. 6570. Chintz bed and window furniture, when not very dirty, may be safely cleaned in the oriental manner, by using rice water. Boil two pounds of rice in a gallon and a half of water ; when the rice is soft, rub it upon the chintz as if it was soap, and wash it in th« rice water. Then strain the rice from the water, and wash again till the chintz is quite clean. Rinse the cloth, dry, and instead of ironing it, glaze it with a polishing stone, or have it calendered or mangled. The rice water serves instead of starch. If the rods or grooves of the chintz be distui-bed by this washing, twenty drops of sulphuric acid should be put into the gallon of water before the chintz is wrung out, which must be done very gently. It is of course necessary to take all chintz hangings to pieces and to separate the fringe bindings and linings, before they are washed. The linings may require to be re-dyed. In London, chintz hangings are usually sent to the dyer's. If the chintz is very dirty, it may be scoured with ox-gall and water, which wiU not injure the colours. 6571. A method of cleaning silks, sttiffi, moreens, printed cottons, or chintzes, by the use of potatoes, without injuring the colours, is described in tlie " Transactions of the Societj' of Arts for 180fl." Grate raw potatoes, washed and peeled, to a line pulp ; add water In the ))roportion of a pint to a pound of potatoes ; pass the liquid through a coarse sieve into a vessel where it is to remain till the fine white starch subsides to the bottom. Pour ofTthe clear mucilaginous liquor, which is to be used for cleaning. To perform this process, spread the article to be cleaned upon a table, wliich should be covered with a linen cloth ; dip a sponge in the potato liquor, and apply it till the dirt is removed ; then wash the cloth in clean water several times. The coarse pulp which does not pass the sieve will do to clean worsted curtains, carpets, or other coarse furniture; and the white starch that subsides may be employed for starching, or instead of arrow root. Some use the whole of the pulp and water for the scouring ; and others slice the potatoes, and rub them on the stuff as if it was soap. 6572. To remove spots of grease from woollen cloth, silk, cotton or linen. —If the articles will bear washing this will remove it, particularly if the spot be touched with a little alkali. But if washing cannot be employed, the following methods will be efiectual. Some absorbing substance may be used, as fullers' earth, or tobacco-pipe clay, of which the first is the best. These earths melted must be laid upon the spots, and as the water evaporates, the oil will be absorbed, and leave the fibres of cloth ; then, when dry, the earth may be brushed out. A little sulphuric ether may sometimes be necessary to remove the stain completely, and this again may be washed out with spirits of wine, or the following compositions, wetted, may be laid on the cloth. Take an ounce of pipe-clay, and grind it with twelve drops of turpentine and twelve of spirits of wine. When dry, the com- position must be rubbed and brushed off, when the stains will disappear. Another method —Rub a little magnesia, moistened, on the spot. AMien dry, brush it off, and the stain will have disappeared. Grease spots in cloth may also be removed by using soap and water and a nail brush, and afterwards wiping ofi' the lather with a wet towel. French chalk may also be used for the same purpose thus : — Cover the spots with scraped French chalk; place these parts on a water plate containing boiling water, or on the face of a warm iron. This will melt the grease, and the French chalk will absorb it, and the whole may then be removed by brushing. If once is not sufficient, repeat the process ; or the French chalk may be mixed with lavender water, or with turpentine, so as to make a paste, which is to be put upon the stain ; over this lay a piece of blotting-paper, and run it over with a hot iron : then brush off the chaUi. 6573. An excellent method of removing spots of grease from silk or cotton dresses without hurting the colour is the following: — Grate" raw potatoes into water, so as to form a pulp ; pass the liquid through a sieve into another vessel of water, and let the potato subside. Pour the clear liquor from the top, which may be bottled for use. Dip a sponge or a small brush in this, and wet the spot till it disappears ; then wash it in clean water. Be very careful not to wet more than the spot, as there is danger of discharging the colour. Spirits of turpentine is, perhaps, the safest thing for this purpose; apply this with a bit of sponge, and rub with a clean linen rag; the turpentine will dissolve- the grease, and the rag will absorb it. A little essence of lemons will correct the smell of the turpentine. 6574. Scouring drops, which are made of equal quantities of oil of turpentme and essence of lemon are sold for taking out stains and grease from silk. They are rubbed on with a bit of flannel, and generally answer perfectly well. 6575. Scouring balls, for taking spots of grease from cloth or silk, are likewise convenient They are made thus:—Take pipe-clay two pounds ; fullers' earth and whiting each four ounces; ox-gall a quarter of a pint. Powder the whole, and mix the gall with these, stirring and bruising them, so as to compose a stifi' paste, which is to be made into the form of rolls, balls, or any other convenient shape. To use them, rub the ball over the soiled part, until it is well covered ; then rub it briskly between the hands, and brush out the dust with a clothes-brush : if once is not enough, repeat the operation several times. Any part that is very greasy may be treated by scraping a little of the composition and