lJhap. VI. ,31 HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. K)e§t known to us is that brought from the south of France, where it is found near the tiiown of Seyssel, on the east of the Jura. It is there dug as a calcareous stone impreg- iiaated with bitumen : this is pounded and exposed to a strong heat, by which the whole is iVused or rendered soft; when cooled it is made to form a hard cement. The asphalte is uased in various ways, mixed with sand, gravel, pebbles, &c. according to the various uses ic.o which it is applied. It has been largely employed, instead of stone, in the troHoirs or siiide pavements in Paris and other places ; and examples of this kind may be seen in vyarious places in London, which appear to answer very well. This would no doubt be iimitated oftener, but that our abundance of good stone renders it less necessary to use this ^•esollrce. It is very useful as floors in ofiBces of buildings of various kinds, being per- ft'ectly tight, warm, and impervious to vermin. It is said likewise to form excellent walks inn gardens, and succeeds in terraces where damp prevails. It is said to be little inflam- mnable; but it is not used here on roofs, though occasionally employed in this manner on ihhe continent. There are some other varieties of the asphalte, but it is difficult yet to sppeak of their comparative merits. StTBSECT. 4. — Drains. When the plan of a house is completed, one of the first things to be done is to insert ihhat of the drains, and to determine in what way the water from the roof and other parts slihould arrive at the sewers, cesspools, or other places for its reception. 95.,The drai7is of a building demand great attention from the architect who plans them icn the first instance, and they also require to be kept in the most perfect order, to ensure ibhe safety of the building, and the comfort and even health of the inhabitants. It is to bo obbserved that, in the metropolis and its environs, it is necessary to comply with the regu- bations in the Building Act in the construction of the drains, and it is the business of the diistrict surveyor to see that nothing is done contrary to that act. There should be kept in fjvery house (though it is seldom or never done) an accurate plan of all the drains, which nought to be preserved from the time the building was erected ; but Lf that has been ne- s'^lected, then the first time they have to be repaired or opened, a plan should be made to rt-efer to at any time. In this not only the course of the drains should be accurately marked, lout likewise all the cesspools, stench traps, and sink stones: also the general sewer. It twould be still further useful if sections were made, showing the quantity of slope or current nbf the drains, their depth below the floor, pavement, &c. For want of such a plan, it is dif- fidcult to conceive the trouble which occurs when drains get out of order ; and sometimes nmuch unnecessary expense is incurred, and even serious mistakes are made from the brick- Liayer who may be employed not knowing their true course. Pavements and floors must toe taken up and deranged, in order to discover them, or work is carried on erroneously, aiind fails of its object. AU small drains that ifis necessary to open occasion- alilly when they require cleaning out, should be of the f'orm of a, fig. 23., with concave or arched bottoms, and Ihhe tops flat and covered with flag stones or paving tiles wet in cement. The concave bottom enables the water t'.o collect better together, and to move more freely than iwhen the bottoms are flat. Barrel drains b, fig. 23. are thhe strongest, but, as they cannot be opened without I'oreaking them up, they are only used where there is a cconsiderable fall, and where they are not required to be fr'requently opened. The fall in a drain should not be li-ess than a quarter of an inch in a foot. Sewers are ge- iioerally built of the form represented at c,fig. 23. 96. It is of great importance that the drains should be executed in a workmanlike manner, land a proper current given to carry off the water. If they are built ^ j- inn a careless and insufiicient manner, the house is very likely to prove " f'br ever damp and unhealthy. They should be constructed of sound a\\ // \\ //<? bricks with Roman cement, and every precaution should be taken to make them perform their office with as little looking at as possible. 97. When nofJiing prevents the foul air of drains from coming out hhrough the apertures by which the water goes down, the consequence extremely disagreeable, and even injurious to health ; and to ob- ^ /iate this effect, the contrivance called a bell stench trap is made sat every sink. Fig. 24. a, b, c, represents the section of a portion of ^ n hollow cone of metal, having a short pipe in the middle b, d; and ' water is put into this cone up to the level a, c. A loose perforated cover, ef, (see section, and also the fig. below,) is made to rest on a 'lihoulder on the top of the cone, and this cover is perforated with wo circles of holes ; on the lower side of this cover, a hemispherical