Chap. iV. 973 COTTON FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. notian traveller, observed cotton elotb to be woven in the province of Fokien, in China; but it was not until after the conquest of that country by the Tartars, in 1368, that cotton became the general dress of the lower classes, as silk was and continues to be that of the wealthj'. The Chinese at present, however, do not grow cotton sufficient for their own consumption, but import a great deal from Surat, Bombay, and other parts of India, and, of late, from this country. The cotton-plant grows wild also on the borders of the African rivers Senegal, Gambia, Niger, &c., and on the coast of Guinea; and the barbarous or semi-barbarous nations there are clothed in their own cotton manufactures, often dyed and figured, and sometimes interwoven with silk. In 1590, cotton cloth of native manufacture was brought to London from Benin, on the coast of Guinea ; and many centuries before that it had been made in Morocco and Fez. It is deserving of notice, that, before the discovery of America by the Spaniards, cotton formed the principal article of clothing among the Mexicans, who had neither wool nor silk ; and though they possessed flax, yet they did not employ it in clothing. An ancient Mexican dress of cotton is preserved in the British Museum. 5736. The introduction of this manufacture into Europe was originally effected by the Arabs or Moors of Spain, who brought the cotton-plant to that country, as well as the sugar-cane, rice, the mulberry and silk-worm, in the ninth century. Fustians were first made at Barcelona, the name being derived from the Spanish " fuste," substance ; and stout sail-cloth was also manufactured of cotton at the same place. But the arts of Spain did not spread throughout Christian Europe, and finally were lost by the expulsion of the Moors. It is remarkable that the Europeans alone continued destitute of this admirable produce of industry for many thousand years after it had been possessed by nations whom they looked down upon as inferiors. 5737. Cottons and muslins were brought from India by the Portuguese, after their dis- covery of the Cape of Good Hope ; and the Dutch and Flemings, who rivalled them in this branch of commerce, began to fabricate cotton cloth at home. 5738. The first notice we find of the importation of cotton into England is that from the Levant; and it appears to have been employed chiefly in making candle-wicks ; if at all woven, cloth was made only in very small quantity. The Protestants, driven by persecu- tion from the Low Countries, brought the cotton manufacture to Bolton and Manchester, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, who saw the policy of protecting and patronising so valu- able an art. But it is not to be supposed that the cottons at first manufactured in England resembled in any degree the delicate fabrics of India. Those which were made at first in Manchester appear to have been chiefly fustians, in which only the weft was of cotton, the warp being of linen yarn, chiefly from Germany and Ireland. Owing to the rudeness of the spinning apparatus of that time, cotton yarn, sufficiently strong and regular, could not be produced for the warp (which is always the principal portion of the web) ; and, consequently, such fabrics, consisting of linen warp and cotton weft, could scarcely be denominated cottons. In the mean time, importations from India by the Dutch and East India Companies, of calicoes, muslins, chintzes, and other fine fabrics, increased; and articles from that country became so fashionable, that the dress of the ladies, and the furniture of the houses, were almost supplied by the Indian trade, to the gi-eat discourage- ment and prejudice of our home manufactures, particularly the woollen. This occasioned a loud outcry in 1700, and produced an interference of the Legislature. Silks and printed calicoes for domestic use, either as apparel or furniture, were prohibited, or loaded with heavy duties. As the cotton manufacture slowly increased, it was found difficult to pro- cure linen yarn for the warp without inconveniencing the linen weavers; nor could the cotton weft be produced in sufficient quantity by the wheel then in use. The demand by the merchants set invention to work, and the discovery of machines by which, instead of the one-thread wheel, at that time the only one, twenty, fifty, or even a thousand threads could be spun at once by a single pair of hands, produced a new era in the manufacture of cottons. But before we proceed with the history of this interesting event, and the various improvements by which the cotton manufacture has arrived at its present perfection, it is necessary that we describe the nature of the raw material, and the processes by which the downy substance produced by the cotton-plant is converted into such a variety of beautiful fabrics. Sect. IL natural history of the cotton-plant. 5739. The fleecy suhaiance called cotton-wool grows upon a plant of which there arc several species, which, however, may be generally included in three classes :— I. An annual or herbaceous plant, usually two or three feet in height, or about the size of a gooseberry bush. 2. A shrub, six or seven feet high. 3. Tree cotton, rising to the height of twenty