300 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 1323. Mi: Nicholson mentions a very simple melliod nf usccrlaininr/ when the (/laze of china is loo soft. This consists in dropping a small quantity of strong ink upon it, drying it before the fire, and tlien washing. If the glaze be too soft, an indelible brown stain will remain upon it. It has been remarked that the heat of the Chinese furnaces must be tremendous, far exceeding what we employ for the same purpose. Parkes states that the calcined bones lately introduced as a material into some English porcelain acts much to the injury of the ware, which is thus very apt to crack with hot water. It must be admitted, however, that although difficult as it may be for the manufacturers of porcelain of this country to come up to Chinese porcelain in some qualities, yet we excel it far in the paintings with which it is ornamented : and we have stated the comparative merits of both, not with a view to undervalue our own produce, but, by placing the subject in the just point of view, to stimulate our native talent. 1324. Tliere are a great many varieties of Chinese porcelain, and the passion for collecting these, and all kinds of articles from China and Japan, is not so prevalent as formerly, when the contents of a china closet were the subject of such amusement and admiration : but it is not altogether obsolete ; and though it has been much ridiculed for the dragons, nodding mandarins, vases, fans, and tea-pots, brought together, yet the collecting fine specimens of beautiful or ancient porcelain is by no means an absurd or inelegant amusement. The history of domestic customs is extremely interesting, and is illustrated by such specimens of art. It is, however, essential that very great care slrould be taken in distinguisliing what is really ancient from modern imitations : for it is well known that when this kind of collecting was the rage, vast numbers of articles were made here, and on the continent, to imitate Chinese; and these are frequently sold as such in the present day. Those who are good judges of real china ware will detect the counterfeit chiefly by the style of painting, that of China and Japan being quite peculiar, both in the drawing and colouring. 1325. The Dresden porcelain manufactory vas established at Miessen near Dresden by Augustus, elector of Saxony, in the early part of the seventeenth century. It was the first to succeed in making porcelain of a compactness and infiisibility equal, according to Macquer, to the best of the Chinese. It has produced, besides the usual tea equipages, an immense number of figitres of all kinds modelled in white biscuit, as well as glazed porcelain: and it was the source from which multitudes of chimney and other ornaments were for a long time supplied, which were less excellent for their design, than for the perfection of the material and the brilliancy of the painting and gilding. The royal collection of porcelain at Dresden is thus described by a late tourist. " We have just retm-ned from an interesting exhibition — the collection of porcelain in the Japanese palace. There are eight rooms full of china, of every age and from every country, chrono- logically arranged, from the first bowl of rough unglazed porcelain that ever was made by the alchemist Botiger, who discovered the manufacture, and who died in 1719, down, through various gradations of excellence, to the splendid vase fi-esh from the fabric of Meissen. There are specimens of Sevres porcelain, a present from Napoleon; and some genuine Wedgwoods from England; besides a few articles of the curious serpent and green porcelain, the art of making which is unknown in Europe, and which is very rare even in China. They show you a set of china in exchange for which August der Stark gave Frederick I. of Prussia a fully equipped regiment of cavalry ! But the most beautiful thing by far in the collection is a piece representing the crucifijcion. It is of white porcelain, very large, and cost 20,000 dollars, about 3000/. The figures in this, their expression and grouping, are exquisite." 1326. The Berlin manufactory of porcelain was founded by Frederick the Great, who, when he conquered Saxony, carried away several of the best workmen from Dresden. Five hundred workmen are generally employed there, but though the true materials are brought from Saxony, the Prussian porcelain has not equalled that of Dresden. 1327. The most magnificent and perfect nutnufaclory of porcelain in Europe is undouhtcdly that at Sevres, eight miles from Paris, carried on at the expense of the French government. Here, under the direction of M. Brongniart, the celebrated chemist and mineralogist, not only every possible attention has been for many years paid to the selection of the best materials, and to all the various processes, but likewise good artists of all kinds are employed in painting the decorations with great taste. Every description of porcelain has been produced at Sevres in the greatest perfection, and most magnificent specimens of large vases and other objects are prepared, chiefly as presents to various potentates. The private manufactories of porcelain in France have benefited greatly by tliis munifi- cence of the government, and, as no secrecy is observed, improvements find their way over the kingdom. To these causes must be attributed much of tlie superiority and cheapness of French porcelain. In Paris there are several manufactories of porcelain ; one exists at Chantilly, and another at Passy, which supply our shops witli vast quan- tities of their produce, notwithstanding the heavy duty of 30 per cent