921 RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOKERY. Chap. III. sauce added, and the meat allowed to lie in it for an liouv, that it may fully imbibe the truffle flavour. The sauce must be kept thick. It may be thinned at any time. Though the meat and truffles must be well doiie, they must not be over-fried. It is the most diffi- cult point in French cookery to know the precise time required by the various articles hich are frequently combined. Experience only can give this excellence to cooks. ■w 5330. Scollops anU Jillels qf fowl mav be dressed with any of the under-named sauces .-ind purees : - with mareclial sauce ; Espagnole ; bichamelle ; essence of cucumbers ; sauce Allemande ; with oysters ; truffles ; mushrooms: purees of green peas, ofcelery, and cucumbers. Each sauce gives its name to the dish of which it is the accompaniment, or prepared with it; as, scollops of fowl — a I'Espagnole, a TAUemande. S331 Chickens a I'Ivoire —Pick and singe two chickens well, thrust the hand inside, and remove the breast-bone Mix tngetlier some butter, the juice of half a lemon, some pepper and salt, and put some of the mixture into the body of each chicken ; bind them up neatly, lay tliem in a stew-pan surrounded with layers of bacon and cover the breasts of the chicken with thin slices of lemon and bacon. Pour some poele over them, and stew them for half an hour. They should be perfectly white, and served with veloute or bechamelle. , , . , ■ - , , 533'>. Chickens a la Villeroi are dressed in the same way, but served with aspielie or mareehale sauce. 5333. Curry. — This may be made of chicken, lobster, veal, or mutton. When of chicken, let a couple be divided into pieces convenient to distribute at table ; blanch them in'hot water, and stew them gently till half done in some veal stock with a table- spoonful of curry powder. Next prepare the sauce, which consists of a couple of moderately-sized onions, sliced, a table-spoonful of curry powder, some butter, and flour ; work this well over the fire; moisten with the liquor in which the chicken has been stewed with additional veal stock; put in the chickens, and let them simmer till done, when they are to be taken out and kept warm. Pound two ounces of sweet almonds to a paste and incorporate it with the sauce ; remove any fut, season it with cayenne popper and lemon-juice, and pour, or strain, it hot to the chickens. When veal, lamb, and mutton are employed they should previously be fried of a light brown. For preparing the rice, see " Vegetable Entremets," Sect. VII. Subsect. 2. SuBSECT. 6.—Entrees of Partridges and Pheasants. 5334. Partridges d VEspagnole. — Let it be remembered that old partridges are unfit for French dishes ; they may be dressed with purees of lentilles, or employed in the game consommes or cold patties. The young ones only can be introduced as entrees, and may be known by the white tinge at the sharp extremity of each wing : when that mark is observable the birds will be found tender enough for use. Truss three partridges (see Directions for Trussing, &c.) ; put them between layers of bacon, and pour a poele over them. Over a slow fire stew them for twenty minutes ; dish, and pour over them an Espagnole, to which some glaze of game has been added to give it a game flavour. 533.5. Young partridges a la Montmorenci. — Empty and truss young partridges; dip the breasts into boiling water, and immediately after into cold, to make them firm. Lard them with slits of bacon, and put them into a .stew-pan surrounded with slices of bacon. Immerse only one half of the birds in poele or other liquids. Over a brisk fire stew them for twenty minutes ; glaze them and probe them in the back ; if no blood issues they are done sulBciently. Drain them, and glaze a second time. Serve with ragout a la Jimineiire. 533'). Partriflges d la Crassn7ifliiu\ — A^ter emptying and picking the birds, cut oflT the claws, make a hole below the joint of the leg. truss the leg inside the body, singe the Ijirds over a llainc till the flesh becomes firm, pinch the breast with your left hand, scallop tlie breasts without reaching the skin, turn tlie flesh over on the table, be.at the bird flat, dust it with salt and pejjper, dip it twice in clarified butter and crumbs of bread, br<jil it, and serve it with an Italionne, or essence of game. .'i337. Sojijfiv njyoung partridges. — Pound the meat of roasted partridges in a mortar, seasoning it well, and adding to it a few spoonfuls of vi'hiute. and a lump of butter. Mix with this the yolks of four or five eggs, and strain tlie whole through a sieve ; beat the whites of the eggs, and mix them also, but lightly, with tlic puree. Hake the whole in a soullle disli for twenty minutes. Prevent it from burning at tlie top by covering It with paper. ."j338. Salmi of pheasants. — For this dish roast the pheasant only half an hour. When cold, cut it up as if for eating. Put the parings into sauce a salmi. If two pheasants are thus prepared do not use the legs except for flavouring. Cut each side of the breast into three slices, and fry the same number of slices of bread of equal size. The meat put into a covered stew-pan to prevent, it drying. Now prepare the sauce by frying together a small bit of lean ham, four eschalots cut small, some parsley roots, a carrot cut in dice, some thyme, a bay leaf, six cloves, mace, ten grains of allspice. Add eitlier brown sauce or a spoonful of Hour, two glasses of madeira, and a ladlel'ul of veal gravy. Season with salt and ])epper, put in tlie trimmings and boil all together; skim oH' all the fat and, if it taste bitter, add some sugar. Keep the sauce thick enough to cover the meat, over which pour it through a tammy, and warm both together without boiling them. This dish may be made with trufile sauce by ailding to the sauce the Irimmings of Iruflles and by boiling- some truffles cut neatly in sauce by themselves. Put the truffles in the middle of the di.sh when it is served.