Chap. II. CONSTRUCTION OF FOnR-WHEELED CARRIAGES. 1109 method of lessening the jarring produced by rapid motion o-ver rough roads, -which in the antique cars, as represented in bas-reliefs, appeared to be so considerable, that the drivers were obliged to stand upright, to enjoy the benefit derived from the elasticity of their muscles. The simplest, and probably the first method of affording ease, was to suspend the seat by straps or lashings. The next improvement would be the separation of the sitting part from the frame carrying the wheels and axles, and the supporting of the former by long ropes or straps stretched beneath it, and fixed to uprights rising from the frame, a construction borrowed doubtless from the horse-litter. The four-wheeled car- riages of Europe, used for state purposes, were constructed upon this plan; and their great weight and slow movement prevented any violent concussion. Many of the stage- coaches of France are suspended on the same principle, as well as many of the carriages in Canada. In countries where the roads are very bad, the use of springs is scarcely admissible, as they are then very liable to be broken. In these cases considerable weight is useful to prevent the vibration from side to side. Elastic substances, to prevent the concussion, are an improvement on suspension only. "Wooden springs were first used, suggested, no doubt, by the elasticity of the bow; and some of these were in use not long since. Steel was next employed for a spring, and at first it consisted of one piece only, tapering; but afterwards several laminis of steel plates bound together, as at present, were found to be better, as being less liable to be broken. 6615. The method of connecting the body with the carriage part forms one of the most important distinctions in carriages, and much of the ease of the passengers depends upon the particular manner of effecting it. It is either now suspended by strong leathern braces attached to springs rising from the carriage part, in the manner of the coach, fg. 854., or, without any suspending traces, it is placed vpon the carriage part, springs of some kiiid intervening between this and the axles, as in the phaeton, 858. In the carriages that have the bodies suspended by braces and springs there are some- t times, likewise, other springs beneath the carriage part resting on the axles. In the latter case the vehicles are termed under-spring carriages; and these are the easiest of all for i the passengers. 6616. It is necessary that we give a technical description of the various kinds of springs now constantly employed to diminish the jarring or jolting occasioned by obstacles on roads. 6617. Single elbow springs, fig. 848., are nearly straight, being only very slightly curved, ^___=g<' and consisting of several plates of steel laid upon each other, and each ' F - ^^^^^^^ shorter than the others, so that the whole tapers from one end to the Fig.SiS. other, the largest plate being the thickest. The several plates are kkept together by hoops or clips. 6618. TTie double elbow spring, fig. 849., is the single elbow spring repeated right and =-o left. Examples of it may be seen in the modern phaeton. Tilbury, Dennet, Stanhope, and in most two-wheeled fig.840. carriages, where it is fixed across the axle at right angles, lit is also used in the omnibus and stage-coach. When the weight leans upon the spring by means of curved pieces of iron called loops, fig. 850., which are connected with the springs by shackles, b, b, it is called the grasshopper spring, and is used in the Dennet and light carts. The longer Fig. 850. " the springs are, the more elastic and easy in the motion. 6619. Double-curved springs, called S springs, were formerly the principal springs to which the bodies of four-wheeled carriages were hung by suspension braces ; see fig. 854, n the coach: but they are now scarcely ever used, being superseded by the spring described caext 6620. C springs, fig. 851., are now universally employed for suspending the bodies of carriages with perches, as may be seen in the cuts of the coach, fig. 854., chariot,856., &c. One great advantage of this form over the S spring is, that the leathern brace is stretched round the back of it, and can be tightened by means of a small iron axle and notched wheel called a jack, a: this is rendered necessary occasion- ally, because the weight of the body gradually stretches the braces, causing the body to sink down nearer to the ground. Accidents from breaking rarely occur in C springs, though they are frequent in double elbow and elliptic springs. The C springs, also, from their long braces, yield a universal motion before, behind, down- 'f.vard8, and sideways, and therefore are the easiest for the rider though not for the horse, ■ whereas elbow and elliptic springs are confined to vertical action, which is less easy. 6621. Elliptic springs, fig. 852., are those most commonly now used in modern light •arriagos witliout perches. They consist of two curved springs placed on each other with lie concave surfaces opposite, and connected together at the ends, forming nearly the