Chap. VL 417 FISH. SuBSECT. 15. — Tlie Smelt (Sa/mo eperlanxcs, Linn.). 2167. The smelt is a very delicate fish, and much in request. Mr. Yarrell says that the true smelt is almost exclusively confined to the eastern and western coasts of Britain, and that he is not aware of its existence between Dover and the Land's End ; what is caught there, and called smelt, being the Atherine or sand-sraelt. The smelt ascends rivers and inhabits fresh water from August to May ; and, after spawning in March, returns to the sea. It rarely goes far from shore, and is taken in abundance in November, December, and January. It is a very elegant fish : its form is beautifully taper; the skin thin, and the whole body semi-transparent; the scales are small, silvery, and easily rubbed off. It has a peculiar odour, which some compare to that of a cucumber, and others to that of a violet. The Thames used to swarm with this fish ; but of late very few have been taken in it. It has been bred in ponds with complete success. 2168. The Sand-smelt, or Atherine {Atherina presbyter, Cuv.) is sometimes sold in Southampton and other parts of the Hampshire coast as the true smelt, to which it is inferior, being more dry ; though if dressed with the liver and roe, and without being embowelled, it is excellent. It is plentiful on the south coast of England, where the true smelt is rare. SuBSECT. 16.— The Gurnard {Trigla Cuculus, Linn.). 2169. The Red Gurnard, sometimes called the Cuckoo Gurnard, is very common on the English and Irish coasts. Its head is remarkably well defended with bony plate's and spines, and as they ?wim near the bottom of the sea, they are extremely tenacious of life when taken in the trawl nets. They are an excellent fish as food, and are in greatest perfection in October, though they are to be had through the winter months. 2170. The Piper is a species of gurnard, but more rare on our coast than the last. It is chiefly obtained on the western coasts of Devon and Cornwall, and attains the length of two feet, weighing three pounds and a half. All the gurnards emit some sound when taken from the sea; and the name of this species is given from the noise it is supposed to make. Its flavour is thought by some superior to that of the common gurnard. 2171. Tlie Grey Gurnard is not uncommon on our coasts. Its general colour ig brownish-grey or greenish-grey, the belly silvery white. SuBSECT. 17.— Conger Eel (Murcena Conger, Linn.). 2172. This large species of eel is found in the European seas, and sometimes, though rarely, in rivers. It is extremely voracious, feeding on other fish, crabs in their soft state, or dead animals of any kind. It grows to the length of from four to ten feet, and some have been taken weighing a hundred pounds. A fishery of congers, at Mount's Bay in Cornwall, forms a considerable branch of commerce. They are taken in great quantities, and were formerly exported in a dried state to Spain and Portugal, where, being reduced to powder, they were used for enriching soup. At present they are chiefly sold to foreigners as bait for other fish. 2173. TTiey are not nearly so oily as the smaller eels, and the fish being white and firm, they are cooked in a great variety of methods. They make excellent soup, are eaten boiled, broiled, fried, and made into pies. SuBSECT. 18. — Skate (Raia hatis, Linn.). 2174. Of all the larger fish of tJiis country, the skate or ray is the most numerous, and this is owing in a great measure to their size. Only the cachalot and shark have a swallow sufficiently large to receive them, and perhaps even they are deterred by tbtir defensive armour. In England some have been taken that weighed two hundredweight, and in other seas they have been met with much larger. In deep water they are supposed to he enormous, for it is only the smaller ones that approach the shores. They are very pro- lific, one female containing sometimes three hundred eggs ; but they produce their young alive, and only one at a time, inclosed in a black square horny purse, which are frequently found cast upon the shore after the young skate has come out of it. Like other flat fish, they live at the bottom of the sea. 217.5. The skate belongs to the cartilaginous fishes, that is, those whose bones consist only of firm cartilage. The flesh is thick, white, and extremely nutritive; and, being easy of digestion, forms an excellent food, less esteemed than it deserves to be. It is much improved by crimping, in which state it is almost always sold in London. From their great abundance, skate is extremely cheap in the fishing towns of England ; and as it is the custom there often to cut out only the best part, and throw the rest away, much excellent nutritious food is lost, which in other places would be converted into use. Skate likewise admits of being kept fresh longer than any other fish, and, hung up in the E e