8U GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. action above one another at the same time. Besides the range itself, which has been just described, there is now frequently attached to it on one side a boiler, h, fixed, and forming part of the apparatus : this boiler, extending along the back of the fire as well as on one side, being heated by the fire in the grate, affords a constant supply of hot water, which is drawn off by a stop-cock with a lever handle. On the other side of the range there is an iron oven, heated by a small fire below it, and which, when well managed, serves to bake pastry, &c. It must be observed, that to bake well in this oven it is necessary that it shall be so constructed that the fire may circulate over the top of the oven and under the top plate, as well as round the sides and back, in order that the heat may be thrown down upon the things in the oven. When the oven is heated only on one or two sides, and not on the top, it does not perform nearly so well. The boiler is supplied with water by an oval aperture in the top, closed bj' a heavy piece of cast iron, fitting it exactly, and having a projection on the under side that goes into a groove. This groove is always full of water from the condensed steam, and the water prevents any steam escaping from the boiler, for before any can come out, it must make its way through the water in the groove, and also be strong enough to lift up the cover, which, therefore, acts as a safety-valve. To prevent the trouble of supplying the boiler every day with water by hand, some have it supplied, from a small cistern in the kitchen with a ball-cock. With respect to these range boilers it happens that in a very few years, according to the kind of water used, a stony deposition, of the same nature as the fur of a common tea-kettle, is formed in the inside ; and this incrustation, when it arrives at a considerable thickness, impedes the boiling of the water by its being a bad conductor of heat. When this happens, the top of the boiler must be taken off, and the hard incrustation cut off with a chisel. If suffered to remain, not only would the water boil slowly, but the boiler, by getting red hot, would soon be burned out. The best way is every three or six months to clean off the incrustation by scraping, while it is so thin as to scale off. The boilers which extend at the back as well as the side of the fire, as represented in fig. 629., called by ironmongers Z boilers, are difiicult to get at to clean, and indeed cannot be cleaned effectually through the opening usually left: in consequence of which they frequently burn out at some place and give way. Some, therefore, prefer having the boiler at the side only of the fire, and fasten on the top of it with screws, which, being easily taken out, admit free access to the interior; others omit the oven, and make the boiler extend to both sides of the range, as well as at the back, in which the cleaning out of the boiler is more easily effected by an opening on each hob. The doors of the fire-place for the boiler and oven ought to fit very close ; and there I 1 should be a register in the ash-pit doors, which are best made in the form x^^l shown in.^<7. 629., by which a very small quantity only may be admitted : this ( fflS/r-^ register, which has been long used, is much better than some now employed, nML as at fig. 630., where a circular opening is closed by a flat plate made to move I 5^ screw. Fig. 630. Other range ovens are heated only by the fir^ in the range, without any below it, as in fig. 631., where there is a narrow aperture in the side of the grate, by which the smoke and heat are al- lowed to pass beneath the bottom of the oven, in the direction of the arrows, thence round the side fur- thest from the fire, and over the top, then lastly into the chimney flue, there being a damper, b, to regulate the draught. Below the oven is an aperture to clean the flue occasionally. In other raiiges, again, there is no circulation round the oven, which is heated only by the fire in the range on one side of the oven, as- sisted by a mass of iron that lies in the fire and communi- cates between it and the in- side of the oven, thus afiford-