ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 30 Book I. chalk, when burned in the best manner, as it was by the late Lord Stanhope, makes lime as fit for mortar as the hardest pure limestone, provided it be used for tliis purpose imme- diately : but it is a fact of practical importance, that lime made from soft porous stones like chalk absorb from the atmosphere the carbonic acid which they have lost in burning, sooner than lime made from more compact stone; and as chalk lime is seldom secured from the access of air before it is worked into mortar, it has sometimes returned so far to the state of chalk as nearly to have lost its binding quality. Every description of lime should be used as fresh as possible. The lime used for common mortar in and about'London is made from white chalk, often imperfectly burned ; but a superior kind is procured from employing the grey chalk of Dorking, which contains some clay, yet not enough to form the best hydraulic lime. 91. The sand for mortar should consist of clean, angular, silicious grains, not too fine, and as free as possible from any admixture of earthy substances. River sand is usually the best, or pit sand if it be of the proper size, and not dirty, which it is apt to be; clay or earth of any kind weakening the mortar. Sea sand is improper, except it is well washed to deprive it of the salt that adheres to it, as that would prevent the walls from ever being dry, causing them to attract the humidity of the atmosphere. The sand is passed through a skreen or sieve, to reduce it to the proper degree of coarseness ; and what con- sists of very small rounded grains is not so proper as what is rather coarse and sharp. Old and bruised mortar skreened, and rubbish scraped off the roads, which some brick- layers are apt to use, are improper. 92. To form mortar, fresh slaked lime is mixed up with a sufficient quantity of proper sand, water enough being added to make it into a tough paste. In mixing the lime and sand together, considerable labour should be used ; as it is found that the beating the mortar well, so as to incorporate the materials thoroughly, is essential to make it of good quality, and fit for the mason or bricklayer. The inferiority of modern to ancient mortar has been a subject of frequent remark and regret ; and the chief cause is, no doubt, owing to the less care now taken in the selection of the materials, and the less labour bestowed upon them. The lime employed for London houses is sometimes imperfectly burned ; and having been conveyed from a distance of from ten to twenty miles, without any precau- tion to keep it from the air, it has often lost much of its cementing properties before it is used. This is too frequently mixed with dirty sand, except a surveyor superintends the work ; and the whole is merely incorporated with a spade, in a slovenly manner, with too great a quantity of water, to save trouble in beating it. 93. Hydraulic mortars, or water cements, are, as we have stated, made by using lime from limestones containing clay, generally ferruginous, or from other materials not calca- reous, which we shall describe. Limestones of this kind are found in various countries, though less commonly than pure limestones. In England, the most abundant material of this kind is the Lias limestone. which is found in a belt stretching across England, from Whitby to Ljone Regis, in Dor- setshire ; and it is likewise plentiful round Bath, and in several parts of Gloucestershire. It has long been extensively worked at Watchet, Aberthaw, and Barrow in Leicestershire. The Lias stone, which is found in thin beds alternating with slaty clay, is of a dull grey colour and earthy fracture, containing about 11 per cent, of clay and iron. The lime made from it was employed successfully by Smeaton in constructing the Eddystone lighthouse, mixed with Puzzolana. In Bath and other places this, with sand, forms the common mortar, which is excellent. In London it is little used, from its price being 25 per cent, more than that of Dorking lime ; but it is employed in a cheap and good stucco. There are a few other substances, not calcareous, that are still superior to those we have men- tioned, for their jJtoperty of causing mortar to harden under water. Pozzolana is brought from Pozzuoli near Naples, and consists of volcanic ashes that have concreted into a cellular mass of a baked appearance and rusty colour. It was this ma- terial that enabled the Romans to construct those remarkable moles and summer retreats in the bay of Bala;, the ruins of which may yet be traced in the sea. When mixed in proper proportion with mortar made with common lime and sand, it causes it speedily to set under water, and become as hard as stone, affording the strongest water-cement known. Dutch tarras or trass is another substance nearly similar, which used formerly to be imported from Holland, where it is extensively employed in hydraulic works. This is made from a porous lava found near Andernach and other places on the banks of the Rhine : it is ground to powder, for the purpose of using instead of Pozzolana. Its use here is now superseded by Parlcer's cement, which will be described among stuccoes. Grout, or liquid mortar, is common mortar made so fluid with water, that when poured on a course of brickwork when just laid, it will run into the joints, and cement the whole together very firmly : this practice is employed occasionally where great strength of walls is required. 94. Asphalte is a material lately introduced into building, and which has some valu- able properties. It is a bituminous substance, found in various places ; but perhaps the