Book II. 104 ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. a common lamp. The vapours from the mixture are made to issue through small holes at the top, where they are inflamed, and this flame may be employed in warming a build- ing, cooking, or for any similar purpose. 4.59. Oil of turpentine mixed with fat oil has likewise been employed where a very large quantity of flame has been required, as in contrivances for heating water. Sect. VIII. COAL GAS. 460. Among modern improvements may be enumerated the application of coal gas as a fuel. Although it is chiefly employed for illumination, it is likewise on some occasions suc- cessfully used for giving heat, and has been already adverted to in Book II. " On Warm- ing Buildings." In our description of culinary apparatus, we shall mention some instances where it has been tried with this view. It is continually employed in manufactories as a substitute for the oil used in the lamps for soldering. Sect. IX. ECONOMY OF FUEL, AND COMPARATIVE HEATING POWERS OF THE VARIOUS KINDS. . 461. In some parts of the world fuel is so plentiful, that the study of economy in this article is little worthy of attention. In the wilds of America, or some other new settle- ments, wood costs nothing but the trouble of felling and splitting, and the consumption of it is sometimes a convenience ; but in countries long inhabited, and where cultivation has destroyed the natural growth of timber, this kind of fuel has become expensive. In England, although in many districts where coal is worked, and the price of it is low, much attempt at economising may seem almost superfluous; but that is not the case in all parts of the kingdom, and the expense of carriage being considerable, would give im- portance to all inventions that tend to reduce the necessary consumption. 462. In the fire-places of our apartments and kitchens, as they were constructed forty years ago, the waste of fuel was excessive. Although we are under infinite obligations to Count Rumford for the plain practical rules for effecting the greatest saving in fuel, through which numerous improvements have been effected, yet this subject is far from being generally understood ; nor can it be, until the philosophical principles upon which it depends are more particularly studied, than they are at present, by those who are con- cerned. 463. In our descriptions of the modes of warming and ventilating our domestic edifices, and of fitting up kitchens and the various apparatus for culinary purposes, the reader will find some remarks on this subject, and examples of the best modes at present emplo3-ed of economising fuel; for all directions with this view, to be useful, should be accompanied by application to practice. Some there are, who, having no taste for economy of any kind, have endeavoured to turn the economy of fuel into ridicule, and to represent it as not worth the pains and time bestowed upon it; but it should be observed, that, even although there may be some truth in this remark as applied to particular instances, yet it is one thing to establish a principle, and another to determine when and how far it is usefiil to apply this principle. All experiments demonstrating how any effect can be produced by a diminution of trouble or expense must be of value as matter of science, although the propriety and occasion of adopting the improvement made must be deter- mined by various circumstances. We cannot, therefore, consider any successful attempt to economise fuel as entirely without value, in a general view, since one improve- ment frequently leads to another, perhaps of greater value. We feel it necessary, how- ever, to put our readers upon their guard against the numerous pufis and quacking advertisements respecting pretended savings, by the adoption of newly-contrived apparatus for warming and cooking. Many of these contrivances are altogether ineffective; others are of so complicated a construction, and so liable to be out of order, that no saving can compensate for the trouble attending them, and the difficulty of teaching servants their use, together with the expense of repairs and alterations. Those who wish to engage in experiments, have a taste for such inventions, and who can manage them themselves, may make great and real improvements. But to economise fuel, an article of such vast importance, and to apply it in the most judicious manner, the nature and properties of the various combustibles must be studied, as well as the philosophical principles upon which combustion depends, without which all endeavours at improvement must be useless ; and it will also be necessary to obtain accurate information respecting what has already been done, lest inventions should be made, and supposed to be origmal, that have been already long known. 4G4. With respect to the quantify of heal that may he obtained from the several comlms- tibles when a comparison is made, they should all be burned in the same way. One