DIAP. IIL 97 ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. i it It is there made from the black oak, and is sold above 20 per cent, dearer than any hher. It is made in heaps covered with turf, nearly in the manner described above. An riprovement has lately been made in its manufacture, by filling in all the interstices of ve heap of wood to be charged with powdered charcoal. The quantity of the fuel made this manner is equal to cylinder charcoal, and the quantity is one fifth by weight veater than in the usual method. H22. Charcoal for ordinary purposes is made in the open air, as above described, but when ids required of gi-eater purity than common, as for the manufacture of gunpowder, the Mrring is performed in closed iron cylinders, fixed in masonry over a grate: this is furnished it.th adoor at one end that can be accurately closed, and terminating in the other in acurved ppe. The cylinder is filled with pieces of the willow, elder, and other aquatic woods. Then the fire is lighted, the volatile products escape through the pipe, and the charcoal □mains in the cylinder. Lately, the making of charcoal in closed vessels has been con- rrted into profit by collecting pyroligneous acid in the process, from which vinegar is aade. But it is remarkable that, though the charcoal made in this manner is so superior rr making gunpowder, yet it is not so well calculated for some other purposes. It is not ' i half the specific gravity of the charcoal which is made out of doors in the common way, nTcred up with turf; the makers of iron, particularly, will not buy it. U23. Charcoal varies in its quality, not only according to the most or less judicious lodes of manufacture, but likewise according to the nature of the wood it is made from, hie hardest woods, as oak and beech, make the best chafcoal for fuel: while that from ee softer woods, as the willow and the alder, is most proper for maldng gunpowder, -layons, polishing copper plates, tooth powder, and medical purposes. That commonly Idd in London is pile burned, and made of oak, beech, and hazel: sometimes willow char- laal is mixed with it. 4424. The great convenience of charcoal for ordinary operations has rendered its employ- fsnt almost quite necessary in some of the processes of cooking, particularly in the French aanner. By its means a fire may be made in any part of the kitchen, as it gives no iioke, kindles readily, and burns with very little draught of air, continuing till the whole tburned out. lit burns away very quickly, requires frequent renewal, and is very expensive ; but is ee best fuel where a very regular heat is required, as in stewing. It is particularly use- 11 in some furnaces, as it gives a strong heat and makes no clinkers. 442.5. Although charcoal gives no smoke, it should never be forgotten that its combustion mnot go on without the formation of carbonic acid gas, the dangerous nature of which has ven explained. This gas indeed, being heavier than atmospheric air, generally occupies ee lowest place in the apartment, and is perhaps almost always below the level of ordi- ir.ry breathing; yet a certain quantity cannot fail to mingle with the air, and render this ^wholesome to breathe. The air arising from charcoal when burning is as clear and vvisible as common air: but this very circumstance prevents us from perceiving its pre- ance, and it may therefore prove highly dangerous before we are aware of it. The air sising from coal or any other fuel, likewise contains much carbonic acid : but the smoke, htiich always accompanies it, gives warning, and becomes highly disagreeable before it is itngerous. This is not the case with the vapour of burning charcoal; hence so many Ual accidents from its use in confined places, where there is no flue. The first sensa- nn when it has become dangerous, is a slight sense of weakness : the limbs seem to iquire a little attention to prevent falling. A slight giddiness, accompanied by a distinct teling of a flush or glow on the face and neck succeeds. Soon after, the person becomes ■nowsy, wishes to sit down, but commonly falls on the floor, insensible of all about him, 1'd breathes strong, snoring as in apoplexy. If the person is alarmed in time, and I capes into the open air, he is commonly seized with a violent headache, which generally oates. But when the efiect is completed, as above described, death very soon ensues, ililess relief be obtained. In short, the effect is suftbcation. The most prudent treatment ; a case or accident of this kind, is to take off a quantity of blood immediately, and throw ilcld water on the head repeatedly. A strong stimulus, such as hartshorn, applied to the 15t, has also a very good effect. 4426. Besides its use as a fuel, charcoal possesses several properties which qualify it to under very important services in the arts. Its indestructibility renders charring the out- Ide of wood that is to be driven into the ground, a very useful practice. Its tendency to »8orb various gases, makes it very serviceable in preventing putrefaction •« it is accord- Itgly one of the best preservers of meat for a short time, and will even remove a sliglit iitnt when meat has been kept too long. (See " Preservation of Food.") It makes an ■cellent tooth-powder. I Its non-conducting property renders it very useful on many occasions for confining lat. It has also the property of freeing many liquors from their empyreumatic flavour. Id also of depriving them of colour. H