ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. 82, its temperature is necessarily always the same, namely 212°. Hence it presents us witli a mode of obtaining always an equable quantity of heat. If an enclosed vessel filled witli steam be brought into an apartment, the steam will be gradually condensed by parting with its heat to the vessel containing it, while the latter will communicate it to the air in contact with the vessel. The steam vessel will therefore act as a close stove; with this difference, that the steam stove can never be heated above 212° j and that the heat given out, being always in proportion to the surface of the vessel, we can, by adapting its size to the occa- sion, regulate the temperature of an apartment, an advantage which we cannot obtain so completely in any other way. 363. The manner in which a house or an apartment is warmed, by means of steam, is very simple. A boiler supplied with water nmst be kept constantly boiling by a fire or small ftirnace; the cover of this boiler must be fixed on tight, and a pipe will conduct the steam to any part required to be warmed, where it may be received in a reservoir, or other convenient receptacle, best suited to the nature of the apartment. As the steam gives out its heat, it becomes condensed into water, which settles at the bottom of the receptacle, and should be conducted away by a small pipe that generally conveys it back again into the boiler. The steam is thus made to carry the heat from the boiler of hot water, depositing or leaving it where it is wanted ; and thus this process wUl be kept up as long as the boiler is at work. Nothing can be more quiet and regular, therefore, than this method of warming; but several precautions are necessary to be attended to. As steam has an immense elastic power if confined, care must be taken that it does not accu- mulate in too great a quantity under the head of the boiler, otherwise it may become too powerful for the strength of that vessel to resist, and an explosion might be the result— an accident that is well known to have happened frequently. To prevent this, a safety valve on the boiler is requisite. The safety valve is kept down by the pressure of a small weight suspended on a little lever; and, when the steam becomes so powerful as to endanger the boiler, it forces up this valve with its weight, and escapes by little at a time. An ingenious apparatus is likewise employed, by which the boiler is fed with water so as to have always the same quantity in it; as there would be danger in its being too full, and still more in its being quite empty. The pipe also which conveys the steam to the part where its heat is to be given out, must be surrounded and protected with some non- conducting material. The steam reservoirs, on the contrary, must be made of the best conductors, such as copper, iron, or tin plate. We stated, when speaking of heat, that a pipe or other vessel cannot be filled with steam until it be first emptied of common air. Contrivances must therefore be made in all steam pipes for this purpose; for should any accident suddenly condense the steam in the pipe, the latter, having been already deprived of its air, would form a vacuum ; and therefore, except very strong, could not resist the pressure of the atmosphere, and would be crushed quite flat. There must therefore be a valve somewhere to let in the air should this happen. Farther precautions must be taken to prevent the pipes giving way from their frequent expansion by heating and cooling. Considerable difficulty will likewise occur in providing for a situation for the steam reservoirs in our best apartments ; although, in mEmy other places, this will be sufficiently easy. When we take into consideration all these circumstances (and none of them can be omitted), it is obvious that a steam apparatus should be under the direction of a person competent and willing to attend to k, for though in such hands it is perfectly safe and easily managed, it is far too complicated to be employed in oi'dinary dwellings, where the frequent change of servants would prevent it being properly understood and at- tended to : the apparatus must be kept in perfect order, and though only a small degree of attention is necessary for this purpose, it does not admit of neglect. The use of steam should therefore be limited to those places where it would be put imder the management of competent persons. We do not consider it useftil, therefore, here to go into the numerous details that would be necessary for constructing and managing a steam apparatus, since every such construction must vary with the locality; and, to succeed, Iho whole must be executed under the direction of a scientific engineer experienced in such matters. Nevertheless, warming buildings by steam succeeds perfectly in factories and other large places, where there are persons resident, and sufficiently intelligent to be trusted with apparatus requiring such strict and constant attention : and there are cases in domestic economy where it may be applied, but that can only be where persons are conversant with the subject of steam. Methods of warming by steam, applicable only to hot houses, do not belong to this place. 364. Steam has an important advantage which distinguishes it from every other mode of distributing heat, which is, that it can be conveyed to a very great distance from the boiler, and in any direction ; we can cause it to ascend, descend, or move horizontally, with equ.il facility ; but the lo.ss of heat by condensation is considerable in conveying it to a distant point, though steam itself preserves always the same temperature. A single fire to produce the steam may be sufficient for a large establishment, and this fire may be placed