338 HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. After removing the lieartli.rugs, she shoiilil l.iy down on marljle lifarllis, lo preserve them from bcinc scratcheU. 11 coarse wrai)i)er eloth about two yards long undone yard and a half wide, and which should always bo one of the appendages of the box which contains her other implements and materials for cleaning grates &c., as well as a pair of thick buck leather gloves, which may be purchased at oil shops for houscm,iids' use at one shilling per pair. These gloves are very useful, not only in protecting the hands of the cleaner of the grates from becoming hard, discoloured, and unfit for nicer work, but in securing also fine steel work .ind tire-irons from the touch of the hands, which, if moist, would injure them. Having cleared the ashes away from the grates, and cleaned the bars, fenders, and irons in the rooms used for eating or sitting in, she then carries her box of materi.Us into the dressing-rooms or bedrooms in which fires are to be lighted. l-'iTS. These rooms done, the housemaids repair to their breakfast, and afterwards to such of the bearooms as have been vac-ited. Here the windows are to be immediately opened (weather suiting), the bed-clothes removed from the beds, the beds shaken up, and, with the bed-clothes, left open to the air of the window. The basins and the washing tables are next to be attended to ; each article is to be properly cleansed, the jugs and carafes to be emptied, in order to be washed clean before they are refilled with fresh drawn water. When this is done, and the slops removed and emptied, the bucket washed out, and placed so as to got dry, the beds are then to be made. ^ 1.574. " Making beds" is the term in daily use to express the re-arrangement of bedding or bedsteads after having been used. To make beds well is an art not unimportant to comfort, for it consists in shaking up the beds so sufficiently as to restore to the feathers within them all the elasticity which, from the pressure of those who have been sleeping on them, had been in a great degree lost. Unless well shaken, feathers adhere together and form hard lumps, which would prove uneasy and inconvenient to a healthy individual resting on them, but to invalids still more so ; they would inevitably destroy the repo required by them; 157.5. To secure It hcd being well tnadc, \t is requisite that two persons should be employed to shake th feather-bed, who, taking hold of its contrary corners, shake the feathers within it alternately from one come to the other. This being done so as to convey the mass of feathers tow.irds the centre, the bed is then to b turned over, that side being brought uppermost which had been undermost the preceding night. If it is t be placed above the mattresses, it must he pat aside or turned to the foot of the bedstead while the mattress are turned over, in order that each side of them may be alternately used. The feather bed is then lifted npo it, and the feathers gently impelled by the hand from the centre towards the corners and sides, until they ar equally dispersed within the case, which should form an even, level surface. The under blanket is then lai smoothly over it, and the under sheet is drawn from the foot of the bed, and laid evenly .across the bed, th seam of the sheet being placed exactly down the centre of the bed. The bolster, having been previousl shaken between the persons employed ui making the bed, is laid upon the upper end of the sheet and rolle neatly and tightly within it, and is then lifted close to the he.ad of the bed, drawing up the sheet nith it. Th sides and lower end of the under sheet should at this period be carefully tucked under the bed, and especi.ill at each end of the bolster, so as to fasten it up tightly within the sheet, preventing it thereby from being easil drawn ofTthe bolster by any restlessness of the sleeper. The pillows are then to be shaken up and placed o the bolster, after which the upper sheet is to bp laid on, as much of it being reserved .it the bottom as nil tuck well under tlie bed, so as to keep it straight; the rest of the sheet, being drawn up to the head of the bed, is to be folded up neatly on the pillows, until the beds are to he turned down for use. The blankets ar' next to be laid over the sheets. The arrangement of these differs in some houses, for some persons prefe them to be laid so as not to bo doubled down at the head of the bed, but to be turned up at the feet. The who require light covering over the chest and shoulders often need greater wannlh over the feet, and bene housemaids siiould endeavour to remember which way is preferred by those for whom they are making beds After tucking the blankets under at the sides and feet, and laying them properly, whether singly or folded, a the head, the counterpane is next laid neatly and evenly over, and the bed is made. In making beds wit" clean sheets, it is of no importance which ends of the sheets are put to the head or foot of the bed ; but w he once sheets have been slept in, they must be used always one way until they are again washed. As a rule h which to remember whicli way the ends of sheets were first laid, it is a good plan to put the marked ends of sheets always to the foot of the bed ; also the inside of sheets should always be towards the sleeper, when the rough edges of the seams might annoy. Tlie laundress usually folds up sheets so as to prevent any necessity on this ground in the housemaid for completely opening them before she lays them on the beds. It may also be well to recommend a little attention from those who make beds to the feathers which escape from the case while the beds are sh.iken. If the housemaid fastens a small p.aper bag at the bed's head, in an unobserved place, she may easily collect the stray feathers each day, and inclose them temporarily in this i)aper bag ; when the collection becomes considerable, all she has to do is to open a small part in one of the seams of the case and to put them through it into the bed. 1576. The hangings of fourjwst beds are usually folded up, and laid upon the bed, in the view of keeping them from the dust of the room. At night, when the bedclothes are turned down for use, the curtains are drawn round either partially or entirely, according as the occupants of the beds are supposed to approve. 1577. The hangings of tent beds are usually looped up at the head and feet, and are easily let down to any required degree. 1578. The hangings of French beds are usually thro-mi back during the day over the frame of the bed, at least in England ; for in France they are usually drawn closely round the bed for the purpose of hiding it from view. 1579. Before closing tlie subject of beds, we would add one or two remarks, chiefly, however, respecting the general care and management of feather beds. Sometimes, either from the elTect of d.imp or from neglect in shaking them, the feathers become pemi.i- nently lumpy. In this case, it may be necessary to unscw the scam of the case sulTicicnlly to .admit thi' hand within, by which the lumps may be broken, and the buoyancy of the feathers restored. Beds become lum]>y If allowed to get damp for w.ant'of use j it is therefore req'nisite to shake them up. when they are not con.st.intly in use, as frequently as if they were in use, and, whenever possible, they should be exposed to the r.ays ol tlie nun, or to the warm air of a stove. ., l.'jHO. Ilouscmaiits. when called into the room of an invalid to make the bed. should bo n\>\e to do it so gently as not to disturb or irritJito the patient, .and yet so efiVctuallv .as to render ii as conifort.able to him .is his slalo admits of. If the patient cannot b(> lifled out of bed, then one half of it only can be made at once ; but of which the feathers must be worked up with the hands .and separated from each oilier witli as liltle sli.iking ns possible. They must afterwards be equally dispersed within the bed tick In- the gentle impelling ol Iho feathers towards those parts that appear to be most wanting of them, ll.alf of the under bjanki't is then laid smoothly over that part inwhicli the feathers have been so far shaken. A clean sheet, hiilf of which nui-i he rolled up lengthwise, is then laid upon the blanket and arranged neatly over the bolster ; the unrollwt umii