442 Book VII. ON FOOD. 2308. The preceding table draion up by Sir H. Davy, and published in his excellent ■work " On Agricultural Chemistry," exhibits the nature of most of our vegetables used commonly as food. To form it, 1000 parts of each vegetable were analysed, and the table states the quantity of nutritive matter extracted, consisting of mucilage or starch, saccha- rine matter, gluten or albumen, and extract. The first column shows the entire quantity of nutritive matter, and the difference between that and the 1000 parts consisted of water, or inert or indigestible vegetable matter, possessing the properties of woody fibre. 2.S09. It must not be supposed that the above proportions are always exactly the same in the vegetables described in the above table, since much depends upon their cultivation and growth; yet they are probably never very diflt'erent, and the results of the analysis ofier some interesting facts. They show that wheat is the most nutritive of all the vege- tables in common use amongst us, consisting almost entirely of starch and gluten, both of them highly nutritive principles. The other kinds of grain, as barley, oats, rye, as well as peas and beans, contain a more considerable portion of gluten than other vegetables, but much less than wheat. 2310. There is one remarkable difference between vegetable and animal substances. The attractive power or affinity by which the particles of the vegetable proximate principles are held together appears not to be so powerful as that by which those of animal bodies are united, for slight circumstances are sufficient to convert one vegetable proximate principle into another. Thus gum, starch, and woody fibre, may be converted into sugar or into acids ; but no such change can be efifected upon animal matter: we cannot convert fibrin into gelatine nor into albumen. This easy conversion of vegetable principles into each other is important to attend to, for, in consequence of this, it is often supposed that vegetables contain what they do not; a substance may be apparently drawn from a vegetable, while, at the same time, it is very certain that no such substance exists in the plant: this error happens because, during the process employed, a change takes place in the arrangement of the matter acted upon, as may be exemplified in the case of obtaining spirit or alcohol from fermented barley or carrots. No spirit exists in barley, carrots, nor in any other plant; but the spirit is formed during the fermentation. 2311. In considering the chemical constitution of the several proximate principles of vege- tables, MM. Gay Lussac and Thenard have observed a curious law, which, though it cannot be considered as positive or free from exceptions, is yet highly deserving of atten- tion, as assisting us in forming general views which are always important in classifj'ing and arranging our knowledge. Firstly. Water is known to consist of hydrogen and oxygen only in fixed proportions; and certain proximate principles, as starch, gum, sugar, and woody fibre, which consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, have their hydrogen and oxygen in the precise proportion necessary to form water; so that although we cannot say that these substances are com- posed of carbon and water, yet they consist of carbon and the elements of water in a triple combination: hence it follows that the composition of these four bodies is so nearly the same, that chemists are somewhat at a loss to say in what the chemical difference consists, although they vary so much in their actual propei"ties; but that there is a chemical differ- ence no one doubts. Secondly. If the proportion of oxygen in vegetable substances be more than is sufficient to form water with its hydrogen, that substance will be found to have acid properties; and all the vegetable acids are of this kind. Thirdly. If they contain more hydrogen than is necessary to form water with the oxygen, then the bodies are either oily, tvaxy, or 7-esinous. Thus we may perceive, in the proximate principles of vegetables, three great natural groups ; the saccharine, the acid, and the oily groups ; to which may be added a fourth—an alkaline group—distinguished by all the substances composing it, with a very few exceptions, containing nitrogen in addition to the Qther three elements. These groups may be arranged as follows: — SACCUAIIINE OUOUP. Starch Gluten Vegetable albumen Sugar Mucilage Gum Lignin Vegetable jelly. OILY OROBP Vegetable fixed oil VcKPtablo volatile oil Hcsin Cum resins Wax Camphor Extractive matter Bitter principle Caoutchouc Colouring matter. Acetic acid Malic .icid Citric acid Tartaric acid Oxalic .acid Oiillic acid Tannic acid. Soda Potash Quinca Cinchonia Strychnia Veratria Emetia Picrotoxia Solania Sjnopia Atropia Conia Nicotina Hj'oscj'.-imia Daturia Colchica.