Book VIL 410 ON FOOD .1 »'??■ ''"*''''''!"''"*' 'ifJlf'' 's a fraudulent practice sometimes employed hy fishmonircrs.of a similar natiirp fn a m,i I .Tr ,',?h''' i r,'"""'^; especially on cod and whiting" bl ntrSduS fthc .^^^^ of ?v,^ I ^'-•»«' a"'' blowing through a hole made with a pin under the fui which is next Thif i^nn V "^''."Pl'™'- the eye f"" and large, though, when Pressed, it wiU be very difrercnt fhls imposition may be easily detected, by placing the linger and thumb on ea^h side of tlie vent d?inens'"ons. ^ " ' to escape, and the lish will shrink into iU natuTiJ 2131. Tlie migration of various species offish in shoals, and almost infinite multitudes to particular coasts at certain times of the year, is a circumstance of great advantage to mankind, as it gives an opportunity of taking them with ease, and in vast quantities. The causes that induce fish to make these periodical movements are stated to be the instinct they possess for seeking suitable situations to deposit their spawn, and their search after a supply of food. Several kinds of fish, as the cod, haddock, mackerel, and herring annually leave the deeper and less accessible parts of the ocean, the region of the' zoophytic tribes upon which they prey, and approach the shallow shores to deposit their spawn within that zone of marine vegetation which fringes our coasts, extending from near the high-water mark of neap tides to a short distance below the low-wat«r mark of spring tides. Amidst the shelter of this region, afforded by the groves of arborescent fuci, the young fry come to life and spend their infancy in a situation where numerous small aniinals reside, and which constitute their most suitable food; and it is said that since these marine plants have been cut down on many of the coasts for the manufacture of kelp, the fisheries have suff"ered in consequence. Even the finny tribes inhabiting lakes, as the gwinead and other species, periodically leave the deep water, and, in obedience to a similar law, come near to the margin to deposit their spawn. 2132. Many species of fish, as the salmon, smelt, and others, in forsaking the deep water, and approaching a suitable spawning station, leave the sea altogether, for a time, ascend the rivers and their tributary streams, and having deposited their eggs, return again to their usual haunts. With respect to the migration of herrings, see " Herring," Subsection 21. 2133. Though it is generally supposed that fish which do not migrate from salt tenter to fresh, and which arc properly fish of the sea, will not live in fresh water, yet, from some interesting and successful experi- ments wliicli have been made, it appears tliat sever.il species of fish decidedly marine may be preserved alive a long time in fresh-water ponds, and that they even thrive and get fat in tneni. Some very curious obser- vations on tliis subject have been published by Dr. Macculloch in the Journal (if the Royal Inslitution, No. 32. and 34.; and in the Edinburgh Review, 1822. This capability of some salt-water fish to live in fresh water has long been known in Sicily, where a species of mullet, when taken from the sea, are by the fishermen thrown into the Lake Linterni, where they are kept for use, and where they increase in size and improve in flavour: this lake has no communication with the sea. 2134. An account of the naturalisation of sea fishes in a lake was lately read at a meeting of the Zoological Society, by Mr. J. B. Arnold of Guernsey. The area of the lake is about five acres; its depth varies, and its bottom is muddy, gravelly, and rocky. The water during nine months of the year is drinkable for cattle, but, in consequence of a supply which it receives through a tunnel communicating with the sea, is rather salt in summer, at which season the freshes do not come down so plentifully as at other times. Several salt-water fish were introduced into it, as turbot, sole, plaice, brill, smelt, grey mullet, whiting, pilchard, basse, and grey roach. All these thrive well, and are believed to have increased in numbers. The grey mullet, in par. ticular, has bred as freely as in the sea. A single whiting, that had been caught three successive years, was found to have grown considerably. Pilchards also throve remarkably well. It is even suspected that hybrid fishes have been produced, as several have been caught which were unknown to persons well acquainted with the species annually met with on the coast of Guernsey. Some of these sea fishes, after ha\ing been naturalised in this lake, have been transferred to ponds of spring water, where they have not only lived but done well: and such naturalised fish have been carried to a long distance, being much more tenacious of life than those caught in the sea. 213,'i. The preservation of sea fish in salt-water ponds is so obvious an idea, that it is surprising to find it so little practised in England: nor is it much known on the Continent. In Scotland, however, this has been tried with success in several places. One of the largest and best of these belongs to Macdonnel of Leggan in Wigtonshire, which has been in existence upwards of thirty years. This pond is stocked with turbot, cod, haddock, whiting, thornback, coalfish, and salmon. It is stated also that the same mode is practised in Todness Island in kssex, where it answers perfectly well. From these and similar facts, it would appear to be extremely possible to preserve fish for the market in inclosures or ponds made in the mouths of rivers, estuaries, or in the sea: so that a uniform and regular supply of fish might be obtained in all weathers. 2136. Fresh-water fish are frequently preserved and bred in ponds: but the abundanceof s.ilt-water fish in this country renders those of lakes and ponds comparatively of sm.ill importance. Char and trout abound in some lakes, as at Keswick and Loch Lomond; but these fisheries are little attended to. Fish ponds are most plentiful in the counties of Surrey and Berkshire, and are sometimes let to dealers in carp and other pond fish : but the breeding and fattening lish for the market is much less studied here than on the Continent, where the Roman Catholic religion causes this kind of diet to be more in demand at all seasons. In China this practice is carried to a great extent. The fish most usually kept in ponds are carp, tench, perch, gudgeon, eel, and pike. All the fresh-water fish are taken occasionally, and most of them solely, bj' the rod and line. The art of angling is more generally practised for amusement than profit; but it is a sport of great antiquity, and is followed with the greatest avidity by persons of every rank in life. It has some advaniagfS over other rural sports ; it is but little dangerous, incurs small expense, and is peculiarly fitted for the placid and thoughtful; accordingly we find that some men of great eminence have been much attached to it, as affording a relaxation from deep study, and the opportunity of contemplating nature. We may refer on this subject to the well-known " Salmonia, or Days of Fly Fishing," wi-itten by one of the greatest philosophers of modern times. Sir Humphry Davy. The laws have ever been favourable to this pursuit, protecting the fish, and the autliorised fisher, and punish- ing the depredations of the poacher. Proprietors of grounds through which rivers or streams pass have the exclusive right of fishing in them, and trespass is punished by fine.