STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. 1050 Book XX. Fig. 802. applied to the Fig. 804. Fig. 803. leaving the water clear. Substances actually dissolved never subside by standing any time ; thus, flour mixed with water will subside ; sugar or salt dissolved in it never. C234. Decatitiitioii, or to decajit a fluid, is to pour off gently the supernatant fluid from the sediment without disturbing it. G25.'5. A siphon, fig. 802., is often useful for decanting where there is danger of disturbing the sediment. The siphon may be first filled with the fluid to be decanted, by taking out some carefully with a spoon ; then, with the long end of the siphon closed with a cork, plunge the short end into the liquid, and keep the finger upon the opening of the siphon till it is fairly below the surface; now withdraw the finger, and open the long end, and the siphon will run. 625G. A small glass syringe, fig. 802., which is easily made out of a piece of tube, is sometimes used for decanting very minute quantities of a fluid; and having stopped the end with the finger, the mouth may bb arm, h, to draw the fluid over the turn of the tube; when it has passed that, the fluid will continue to run. 6257. In the siphon invented by M. CoUardeau, fig. 803., it is not necessary to apply the mouth, nor even the finger, to either end of the tube, a circumstance that may be important when the liquor to be transferred is of a corrosive nature, or otherwise improper to touch witli the finger. Dip the end a into the fluid to be transferred, and pour into the funnel side opening, i, a quantity of the same fluid, until it flows out of the end c. The fluid in the vessel then rises, and continues through a, d, c, c. In this case, the branch mn remains full, while the liquid in 6 n subsides to near the bend n. The same object is effected by the more simple form of g, fig. 804., provided the opening of the longer leg is closed with the finger imtil that branch is full ; or the application of the finger is unnecessary if the fluid be poured into the funnel faster than it can be discharged through g; in that case, the long branch of the siphon will fill, and then act in the usual way. 6258. Fusion is the conversion of a solid into a liquid by the application of heat. The fusion of a metal is often called melting; but in common language, the tei'm melting is often also applied to the solution of a solid in water; thus we say, sugar melts in water, dissolves in water would be better. Liquefaction means the same thing. The fusion of metals is conveniently elFected by an iron ladle, fig. 805. Fig. S05. 62 5 9. Crucibles are little vessels, a, b, c, fig. 806., for put- ting certain substances into that are to be exposed to a violent heat of a fire or a furnace. Common ones are made of a particular kind of earthenware F—\ * that resists heat. Some larger ones are made of black lead. They must be put in and taken out of the fire with a small pair of crucible tongs, d, e, and they should have covers to protect the substances from the fuel. The bowl of a tobacco-pipe makes a very good small crucible. The heat of a furnace will probably be very seldom re- quired in domestic economy ; if it should, small portable ftir- naces may be procured at the dealers in chemical apparatus. Pig 806. Some are made to stand upon a stool, by putting a few loose bricks beneath ; but great care must be taken in its use to prevent accidents from the fire. 6260. The process called washing is employed for separating powders that are not soluble in Witter into various degrees of fineness, with greater delicacy than can be effected by any sifting. The substance, after being ground to a fine powder, is mixed with a good deal of water, and agitated ; the coarsest and heaviest portion of the ])owdcr will settle to the bottom, while the smaller and lighter particles will remain some time suspended in the water. But before they have time to subside, the water is poured off with them into another vessel, and then they are suffered to subside. If it be required to separate a third degree still finer, the water must be poured off again before the whole falls down, and the sediment of this water will give the finest powder. In this manner, every powder may be separated into the various degrees of fineness which are required. G26I. Lixiiudlion is the washing a soluble substance from an insoluble one; as, for instance, to jjroduce the potash from wood ashes. The whole substance is mixed with water, and suffered to stand some time, till the water has dissolved all the salt The water is then decanted or filtered off; if this water be evaporated, the salt will be left behind. . 6262. Filtration is the depriving liquids of some solid particles that are mixed with