36 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. Book I. is abolished, many improvements will, no doubt, be made in the construction of flues. For the construction of chimney fire-places, see Book II., " on Warming Domestic Edi- fices." 120. Chimney tops. These are often neglected by the architect, and left to the bricklayer. Nothing can be more unsightly than the appearance of a plain stack of chimneys carrying a row of common red chunney pots, as a, fig. 33. Much more taste was displayed by our ancestors, who, in old English mansions, designed the chimney shafts in an orna- ^ mental manner that is now imitated in Elizabethan , or Gothic houses ; but the style of a Grecian edifice A demands difi'erent designs. The architect, however, C should avoid the usual absurdity of a finishing cornice supported by modillions of any kind, as at a, since ^ these represent the ends of joists, an idea entirely ^'S- ^• inconsistent with the nature of a chimney shaft. Chimney pots are frequently made square, as at b, and have a better effect than the usual round ones, which, independently of their form, have a character of meanness, derived,' perhaps, from association of ideas, which condemns them to the poorest class of houses. The cowls to prevent smoke, too often disfiguring them, are proofs of ill-constructed chimneys, except, indeed, there are local circumstances that may excuse the builder. SiTBSECT. 8.—Pointing Brickwork. 121. Pointing is filling in the joints of the brickwork with mortar, or restoring this when it has been attacked by frost while the building has been going on, or where it has become decayed through time. The old mortar is first raked out by the labourer ; the bricklayer then wets the joints with a brush, and fills them up with mortar containing a proportion of black scales from the smith's forge, which makes a very hard, dark blue mortar; or Parker's cement may be used: this is called flat pointing. If great neatness is required, the whole wall is well washed and coloured before the pointing is done, and a very neat straight line is also added by white putty, and cut very smooth, which is termed tuck pointing. SuBSECT. 9. — Stuccoes and Sough-cast. 122. Stuccoes. These are compositions with which walls are coated, to produce an imitation of stone ; but it had long been found very diflBcult to form a durable stucco for the external parts of houses in this country. 123. The excellent stucco nou^ familiarly known in London by the name of Roman cement, is improperly so called, because it is not the cement used by the Romans. Its original name of Parker's cement should be retained, because it was a discovery made by Mr. Parker about forty years ago, who still manufactures it. Certain nodules, consisting of indurated clay with some lime and iron, known long to geologists by the name of the Ludus Hehnontii, or Septaria, were found by him to possess the property of setting very hard when burned and ground to powder, and made into a mortar mixed up with lime and sand: this mixture becomes hard in a few minutes; so quickly, indeed, that no more of the cement can be used at a time than can be worked up with the trowel or other tool immediately, as it sets almost under the workman's hands. When properly executed, it does not appear ever to fail, or scale off the walls, as almost all former stuccoes were found to do, sooner or later. And not only is it used for the surface of the walls, but it is workea into cornices, mouldings of all kinds, and, in short, into all the oniaments and enrichments, even of Gothic architecture, where stone alone could formerly be employed. It is the most perfect water cement in common use in this country, and is used in all cases where a superior material of this kind for building is required. The nodules from which it is made are found chiefly in the London clay at the Isle of Shcpey; but they occur likewise at Harwich, and at Whitby in Yorkshire. It is to be observed that this stucco will not stand the fire, and therefore should not be employed in setting grates, or in any places to which the fire has access. All limestones having a considerable proportion of clay and iron will aiford a somewhat similar material: accordingly, a pretty i, good stucco is made from the lias limestone ; but, though cheaper, it is inferior to Parker's. 124. Hamlin's 7nastic is another cement having valuable properties. It is an invention of ; Loriat of France, a century ago, though patented here. Linseed oil is used in it, ; and being extremely beautiful, it is sometimes used to cover Parker's or other cement in a thin coat. It is very durable, but expensive. It has one advantage, that when ap- , plied to the walls of apartments, they may be papered immediately. 12.5. Martin's patent cement is a new composition which is described as having j some good properties. It can be made to imitate Portland stone or coloured tessenr. as , 1