1010 Book XVII. FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. blue, to render the black more agreeable. If the cloth be coarse, sometimes a brown from walnut-peels is substituted. 5953. Wool is dyed black as follows : —It is boiled for two hours in a decoction of nut- galls, and afterwards kept for two hours in a bath of logwood and sulphate of iron, at a scalding but not a boiling heat. During the operation it must be frequently exposed to the air, because the protoxide of iron, of which the sulphate is composed, must be con- verted into sesqui-oxide by absorbing oxygen before the cloth can acquire a proper colour. The common proportions are five parts of galls, five of sulphate of iron, and thirty of logwood, for every hundred of cloth. 5954. Silk is dyed black in the same manner. 5955. Cotton and linen are not easily dyed a full black. The cloth dyed blue is steeped for twenty-four hours in a decoction of nut-galls, and then put into a bath prepared of acetate of iron, wrung out and dried, and the process is continued till the colour is deep enough, SuBSECT 9. — Dyeing brown Colours. 5956. Brown is, in fact, a compound colour, although it may be given by a single pro- cess, by means of several dye-stuffs, as walnut-peels, the root of the walnut-tree, birch bark, sumach, &c. These substances containing tannin, which is a mordant as well as colouring matter, produce a permanent dye by simply boiling the cloth with them. SuBSECT. 10. — Dyeing compound Colours. 5957. Compound colours, as green, purple, orange, and an infinity of shades and mixtures of these, some of which have received particular names, are produced by dyeing the cloth first one colour, and then another, to produce the required tint. 5958. Green, being composed of blue and yellow, the wool, silk, or linen is first dyed blue, and then yellow, by any of the processes described above. When sulphate of indigo is used, all the ingredients are mixed together, which produces Saj:on green. Other shades, as pea-green, grass-green, sea-green, &c., are produced by employing various proportions of yellow and blue dyes, according to the experience and taste of the dyer. 5959. Purple is blue and red, and comprises lilac and violet, which are different shades of it. Wool is first dyed blue, and then scarlet, in the usual manner. By mixing cochi- neal with sulphate of indigo, the process may be performed at once. Silk is dyed first crimson by means of cochineal, and then dipped into the indigo bath. Cotton and linen are first dyed blue, then galled, and dyed by oxide of iron. 5960. Orange, consisting of red and yellow, is produced by a scarlet or a crimson, and then dyeing yellow. Carthamus gives to silk an orange. 5961. Olive is obtained by adding blue to the above, or by a blue, yellow, and madder bath. 5962. Cinnamon colour is given by dyeing with slight madder colour before the orange. Silk receives this colour by logwood, Brazil wood, and fustic mixed ; cotton and linen by weld and madder. 5963. Greys, drabs, and browns, of various shades, are produced by dyeing with oxide of iron, and then yellow with quercitron or sumach. CHAP, xn, CALICO-PRINTING. 5964. Historical remarks. — Cotton cloths are seldom dyed of one uniform colour, except for linings ; but when used in dresses for the female sex, drapery of beds and windows, the coverings of furniture, and similar purposes, the)- are ornamented with figures of various kinds printed in colours ; and the endless variety of patterns which arc printed* on white cotton and muslin, give to these fabrics a rich and elegant effect. The natives of India, as they were the first manufacturers of cotton cloth, so they were the first who stained or painted them with various ornaments. Herodotus speaks of a nation on the borders of the Caspian, who painted figures of animals on their linen gai-ments with a vegetable dye, which were so durable that they would not wash out; and Strabo speaks in praise of the beautiful flowered cottons of India, which, from the stationary condition of the people of that country for thousands of years, were probably nearly the same as what are made use of there at present From Pliny's dccription of the mode in which the Egyptians practised the art of staining their linen cloths by the use of mordants, it is