Book V. 230 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. placed at the side of the apartment. These tables may be square or round, as fuj. 176. A_ variety of them, called a cottage dining table, has the fixed centre not above 18 inches ■wide, to take up as little room as possible when put away. 1083. A square table maybe increased to an oblong one, by having fly brackets, as in_^^. 177., on which may be laid loose flaps, one of which is represented in its place in the figure. These flaps are fixed in their places by pegs that drop into holes in the brackets : and they maybe strength- ened by projecting iron straps let into the table below the top. A thin rail may be put on with hinges to fold down, and conceal the flaps when the table is to be square. 1084. Wien a very long dining table is required, the usual method is to have the table that generally stands in the centre of the dining room, whether square or round, as fig. 178., so contrived that it separates in two, as vafig. 179., and having loose flaps placed between supported by slides called lopers, that draw out, forming a series of joists: the whole still resting only upon the four legs of the original table : this method is extremely convenient, as it pre- vents any more legs coming in the way of the guests. These are sometimes termed telescope tables. In this manner a table may be made nine feet long, and without requiring any additional support: and one advantage of this construction is that it obviates the inconvenience which frequently arises when the feet are numerous, and the floor not perfectly level. The flaps when not used, are kept in cases made on purpose, and placed in an adjoining room, or a receptacle may be contrived for them in a side-boai"d. It is essential that the case in which they are kept should have openings to admit a free circu- lation of air, otherwise the flaps are apt to warp or decay, and slips, lined with green baize, should be fixed in the case to prevent the flaps rubbing against each other, or being scratched in taking out and putting in. On particular and teniporar)' occasions, when no proper tables are at hand, boards laid upon trcssels form a good substitute, as in fig. ISO. 1085. Pembroke tables are well-known convenient furniture, frequently used as small breakfast or dining-tables, fig. 181. ' It is requisite that they should be made of well-seasoned mahogany, otherwise, from the lightness of their structure, they soon become rickety : on this account, frequently, they can be most depended upon after they have been used for some time. It is now generally found best to execute them more substantially than formerly, when their lightness was thought to add to their elegance, as in fig. 182., which is a Pembroke table of a firmer kind, with pillar and three claw feet: this, as has been stated, makes the table steadier on an uneven floor, than when there are four feet.