ACCIDENTS IN THE FAMILY. CuM'. V. 1243 or indented like a section of a honeycomb ; all these things must be reported to the phy- sician, as often before the head is again examined, these vesicles hjive burst, and the effusion of their contents confounds their characters, and renders it difficult to decide on their real nature. It should also be noticed whether the vesicles appear irregularly over a considerable surface, or whether they are at first few in number, and spread as from a common centre. Other things being equal, if the vesicles be round, filled with a clear not yellow fluid, and irregularly distributed, not spreading in rings from a centre, the chance of its being contagious ringworm is diminished. Treatment. — Perhaps in all cases it is best to exclude the child from mixing Avith his companions, till the nature of the complaint is made out: the hair should be cut off, but the vesicle should not be broken till the medical attendant has had an opportunity of carefully inspecting the head. If the eruption be clearly the kind mentioned above as being of little importance, a few days will probably remove it. When the case is declared to be ringworm, various remedies are to be tried. Some are useful, but often a remedy will seem to do good at first, and presently appear to lose its effect; various mercurial ointments, strong acetic acid, lunar caustic, alkalies, creosote, antimonial unguents, &c., are among the numerous preparations which are usually employed: we have known some good follow the use of an ointment made with equal parts of powdered gall-nuts and lard ; the head should be kept clean, but not be too often shaved. If the disease be obstinate, it is some consolation to know that it often disappears of itself in the course of from two to five years. SUBSECT. 16. — Itch, 7287. This disease is known by the appearance of pimples and vesicles, which by scratching acquire little black heads. The itching is augmented at night by the warmth of the bed. The disease may generally be known by the peculiarity almost always exist- ing between the fingers and on the wrist and elbows when it affects other parts. It never appears on the face. It seldom happens in any but those of dirty habits or trade; common cleanliness will always prevent it. Treatment.— Among the lower orders sulphur is the grand treatment; it does little good taken internally, but the ointment should be well rubbed in every night and morn- ing. Among the better classes, who occasionally get this disease by accident, the sulphur is usually perfumed. We can recommend another powerful remedy, viz. a strong solution of the iodide of potassium, which should be put over all the affected p^irts every night, and left to dry on. It has the advantage of having no smell. CHAP. V. ACCIDENTS IN THE FAMILT. Sect. I. FRACTUKES. 7288. The most inexperienced eye can often detect that a bone is broken, for some- times the skin is wounded, the muscles are torn, and the bone is plainly seen, with per- haps one end protruding through the wound ; but independent of this, when the skin is not broken, the limb is evidently seen to be deformed, bent, one portion forming an angle with another, and it is obvious that this cannot occur without fracture of the bone. But whether a fracture is plainly discerned or only suspected, the treatment to be employed till the arrival of the medical man is very simple. The limb, if it be a limb, is to be laid in the position easiest to the patient: the easiest position must evidently be that in which the limb is as nearly as possible in its natural condition, when the broken bone has no weight to support, and the ends of the bones are prevented from rubbing on each other and the surrounding parts. Therefore, if the leg be broken below the knee, the plan is to put the leg and thigh quite straight, while the patient lies on the back ; but if left to itself in this position, the foot must evidently fall to one side or the other, and turn one broken end of the bone upon the other, so it is necessary to keep the foot straight up, cither by holding it there or by means of pillows placed along each side of the limb: and it may be convenient to know, that when the assistance of a surgeon cannot at once be procured, very excellent pillows may be formed extempore, by making some large linen bags, and half filling them with sand, previously dried and sifted; one large bag should be laid under the leg from the knee to beyond the heel, and depressions made in it for the calf and the heel; two or three other bags, longer and less broad, should then be laid