CONFECTS FOR DESSERTS AND ROUTS. I Chap. III. 937 i It and boil it to the " great hall." (See " Preserving by Syrup.") Mix the pulp with it, and boil both t together for a few minutes, when it may be poured mto moulds or on plates, and dried as directed for otlier ' ^'sm Rasvbemi and strawberry pastes. — These fruits may both be made into pastes by the same means as'above directed in regard to other fruits. More sugar is, however, requisite to make them harden properly: about a pouud and a quarter to a pint of pulp will be sufficient; and after clarifying it, both are boiled for a 1 short time, and dried as before directed. , . i , .i. • Every fruit paste may be candied by adding sifted sugar to them, and continmng to keep them in a stove : of moderate heat. SuBSECT. 3. — Fruits in Biscuit. .5479. Biscuits of fruit are composed of the pulp of scalded fruit -vcitli sifted sugar, of • -weight, in most cases, equal to that of the pulp, sometimes greater. When mixed, these i ingredients are dried in the oven, the heat of which should never be such as to bake, i instead of drying them. . . 5480. Apricot biscuits. — Peel and reduce as many ripe apricots as will yield one pound I of pulp ; stir in a pound of fine loaf sugar, sifted, and boil both pulp and sugar together ! for about a quarter of an hour ; then pour the jam thus made into paper cases, or drop it 1 on paper in the form of small cakes, and dry them in a slow oven or before a fire for : several days, turning them each day. Put them in boxes or tins, and keep them dry for ■ -winter use. 5481. Apple biscuits. — Slightly flavour the pulp of apples with essence of lemon peel; mix with it while • w;u-m its weight of sifted sugar, and drop it on plates or into paper cases, and dry it in a slow oven for several ' '''5482. Raspberry biscuits Carefully select fine raspberries, and clear them of any that appear too ripe or I mouldy ; weigh it, before reducing it to a pulp, that an equal quantity of sugar may be added to it when it is reduced. When the raspberries are sufficiently reduced, take them off the fire, and mix in the sugar, finely pounded and sifted ; stir it in till it is dissolved; then pour the paste out on plates, to dry it. As soon as the surface at the top is dry, cut the paste into cakes of different forms ; turn them, and continue to dry them in a slow oven until they are crisp. Put them into boxes or tin cases, and keep them in a dry place. Strawberry biscuits are made in the same way. Sect. II. LIQUID CONFECTS. 5483. Iced fruit waters are, in their season, very agreeable and elegant beverages for evening parties. Either currants, cherries, strawberries, raspberries, or apples may be employed for this purpose. 5484. Strawberry water. — Take a pottle, if possible, of scarlet strawberries, on account of the beautiful colour they impart to the syrup ; pick them carefully, and put them into three pints of very weak syrup ; bruise the strawberries in it, and boil them up ; strain the water through a jelly-bag without any pressure, which would render the water thick. Ice the water, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. In makiug currant and cherry waters, a stronger syrup will be required than for strawberries : the taste must determine the requisite strength of it. Orgeat water. — Blanch and pound rather more than half a pound of sweet almonds, and about a dozen of bitter ; add to them a quart of weak syrup, with as much orange-flower water iis may pleasantly flavour the w.iter. Boil these together, and strain off the water through the jelly-bag, or tamis ; bottle it, and ice it. To this some add the flavour of cinnamon ; others that of brandy. Orange water Take the rinds of six China or.inges, cut them into small shreds, and put them into two quarts of boiling water ; squeeze the juice of the oranges into it; add sugar to the taste, finely sifted; boil all together, and strain the water through the jelly-bag ; bottle, and ice it. 5485. Lemonade. — Pare off very thin the rinds of twelve lemons ; put about half of these parings into three pints of hot water, and cover it over for two hours; squeeze the juice of the lemons into a China bowl, and add to it a pound and a half of fine sugar (pounded) ; add to this the water, and three pints of milk, boiling hot ; pour this through a jelly-bag, and continue to do so until the lemonade is perfectly clear. If not sufficiently flavoured with the essence of the peel, a few drops of the prepared essence of lemon-peel should be added ; bottle and ice it. Lemonade made with boiling water and slices of lemon, together with sugar enough to sweeten it, and a quarter of an ounce of isinglass dissolved in it, forms an agreeable beverage, and is made with less trouble than that made after the above receipt. It requires also to be passed through the jelly-bag, and to be bottled and iced. Raspberry vinegar— Put a pound of fine raspberries into a China bowl, or glass dish ; and pour over them a quart of white wine vinegar. The next d.iy strain the liquor from the raspberries, and pour it over nnotlicr pound of fresh fruit, and thus increase the quantity daily, until enough juice has been obtained. Let it be remembered that the juice must only be drained^ not squeezed from the fruit, or the vinegar will be turbid. 'I'o every pint of the juice thus obtained weigh a pound of loaf sugar ; break it Into moderate- sized lumps ; add it to the vinegar, and keep stirring it at intervals until it is dissolved. Put all together into a stone jar, which set in hot water, or on a hot hearth, where It must simmer for some time, must bo skimmed, when cold, bottled, and the cork closed over with seaiing-wax or with bladder. Mixed with iced water, this vinegar makes a very agreeable and cooling beverage. M86. Capiitaire, — Take seven pounds of loaf sugar, one pound of moist sugar, and four oggs,' well beaten ; put these into three pints of water ; boil it up two separate times; skim it cirefully while boiling; add to it a quarter of a pint ol orange-flower water; strain it through a jolly-bag, and bottle it when cold. A spoonful in a tumbler of cold water makes a pleasant beverage.