CUAP. I. APPARATUS FOR DISTILLATION. 1045 odoriferous principles essential to perfumery, and which are procured by distillation. But first it w ill be necessary to describe the apparatus made use of, together with the principal operations usually performed in the kind of laboratory we have talked of. CHAP. L d APPARATUS FOR DISTILLATION, 6218. An essential part of the apparatus of the still-room is, of course, the still ; but having already described the common still in Book VIII. Chap. VIII. " on Spirituous Liiiuors," we refer the reader to its explanation in that place. G219. T/ie vessel called an alembic is the oldest that was invented for the purpose of distillation. It is still employed; and as, from its simplicity, it has some advantages over the common stUl, we shall describe it. M,Jig. 792., is a section of the alembic, and b is a B view of it as fitted up. a is the body into which the materials are put, and to which the fire is applied : b is the head, which is in the form of a cone, and fits on the neck, c. The vapour rising out of the body fills the conical head, and is there condensed by means of a vessel, d, full of cold water, which surrounds it, called the refrigera- tory ; but instead of any of it falling back again into the body of the still, as it is apt to do in the common or swan-necked still, it is stopped by a channel or groove, e e, all round the inside of the head which collects it; and from this groove a pipe, f, con- ducts the condensed product of the distil- lation into the receiver, g. h is the fire door, and i is the ash-pit door. The cold water in the vessel d must be frequently renewed by a pipe leading to it from a cistern, and there must be a small pipe to carry off the warm water. The simplicity of this apparatus would enable a tinman to make it, who could not make the head of a common still: the worm of the latter is expensive, and from its form does not admit of being easily cleaned out, which proves very inconvenient when some oily matters have passed through it; whereas the beak of the alembic, being straight, is easily cleaned. C220. Foi- some nice purposes, the alembic is made of glass in the form A, fig. 793.; but as this is expensive, and very liable to be broken, its use is generally superseded by that of the retort. 6221. The Moor's head is another fonn of still that has been used, and is found conve- nient for distillation on a small scale, a, fig. 794., is the body of the still to which the fire is applied ; b, the head, of a semi-globular form, which has a groove all round the 1 o ' a P1 LjJ inside in the same manner as the alembic; c is the nose of the Moor's head, through which the vapours pass from the head: to condense these, the nose is surrounded by another larger tube, kept always full of cold water by a very ingenious contrivance, e is a pipe proceeding I'rom the lower end, and / is a longer pipe from the upper end : these two pipes form, with the tube, (/, a syi)hon, and as the short leg, c, is immersed iu 3X3