Chap. II. ON FERMENTATION. become vinegar, and is actually changed into it sooner or later, according to circum- stances, unless this change be prevented by some cause that is an obstacle to ferment- ation in general. 3119. The ucetous, like the vinous, Jh meiUation, reqidrcs a peculiar ferment; and this is supposed not to be very different from the vinous ferment, although its nature is very imperfectly understood : it would seem likewise to be some modification of gluten. The same yeast which excites the vinous fermentation in malt wort will also run the liquor into the acetous stage, if not prevented, but the matter which subsides in the making of vinegar is the most active in exciting the acetous fermentation. A cask in which vinegar has been already made will promote it, and fermented liquor can be converted into vinegar sooner in that than in another. But there is this difference between the vinous and the acetous ferments, — that yeast, or the vinous ferment, is capable of exciting both the vinous and the acetous fermentations; but the proper acetous ferment can only excite the latter of these. 3120. The theory of the acetous fermentation has been stated as follows :—During the process some carbonic acid is given out, which is supposed to be generated by the oxygen of the atmosphere combining with some of the carbon of the alcohol which is decomposed ; and it is thought that vinegar, or the acetic acid, is formed at the expense of the alcohol. Alcohol by itself, as has been shown, is indestructible when pure; but when diluted with water, and mix;ed with vegetable matter, such as gluten, starch, sugar, or mucilage, it finds among these a ferment, which soon converts it into the acetic acid by a new arrange- ment of principles. 3121. Fi-om these statements, ive see that all substances capable of the vinous fermentation may pass into the acetous, and do so naturally ; but it would appear that some also acetify without apparently undergoing the vinous fermentation, and this occasions some obscurity in the theoi-y. 3122. Dr. Turner, in his System of Chemistry, has made a distinction that is very import- ant. The acetous fermentation, and the mere production of acetic acid, have been gene- rally confounded together in books, whereas it is well known that although acetic acid is always the result of the peculiar fermentation that bears its name, yet this acid is often produced by the decomposition of vegetable substances, without any fermentation what- ever. Mucilaginous substances, in particular, even when excluded from air, gradually become sour. Gum-water sours without exhibiting any of the ordinary signs of fer- mentation. Weak ale, and beer, aud wine, acquire acidity frequently, even in bottles well corked. These, and many similar processes, appear to be effected by a particular change of affinities, and are not attended by that visible movement in the liquid, with absorption of oxygen, disengagement of carbonic acid, and the other phenomena which accompany the acetous fermentation; to which we may add, that acetic acid is produced by the destructive distillation of vegetable matter in close vessels. The term acetous ferment- ation, therefore, instead of conveying the idea of taking in all the cases of the production of acetic acid, ought to be limited to the conversion of alcohol into this acid. That this change does really take place is inferred, not only from the disappearance of alcohol, and the simultaneous production of acetic acid, during fermentation, but also from the quantity of the latter being precisely proportional to that of the former. 3123. Of the three most important substances concerned in fermentation, sugar, mucilage, and gluten, or the ferment, it would appear that the first is most disposed to imdergo the vinous fermentation, and to produce alcohol; the second is extremely liable to change into the acetic acid, without apparently going through the vinous fermentation; and the gluten, if it does not act upon the sugar in producing the vinous fermentation, is most disposed, like animal matter, to pass at once into the putrid state. 3124. It would appear, also, that in some cases the acetous fermentation goes on, in a small degree, along with the vinous fermentation, and of course produces some acetic acid with the alcohol. This is evident in the distillation of malt spirits, where an acid is found to be left behind, which can have no other origin than the acetous fermentation, there being no natural acid in the malt. A part of this acid combines or unites with the spirit during fermentation ; the other part remains behind mixed, not combined, and such part as is more volatile rises with the spirit during distillation. 3125. The presence of alcohol retards the acetous fermentation : hence strong wines, and similar strong liquors, acetify with great difficulty, and bottled strong wines do not readily become sour. But when at last strong wines do acetify, they afford a stronger vinegar or more acetic acid than weak ones ; however, in this case, the acid is not entirely sup- plied from the alcohol, for the mucilage of the wine contributes its share. Adding sugar, during the souring increases, instead of diminishing, the quantity of acid.