356 ON FOOD. Book VII. of substances, it cannot be detached and exhibited in this state : we can procure it sepa- rately in the foi-m of gas only. It is one of the constituents of water. 1725. Oxi/yen exists also in animal and vegetable bodies in a solid state, though neither it, nor hydrogen, nor nitrogen, can be separated as solids. Pure oxygen can only be pro- cured, or made to appear in a distinct form, as oxygen gas: this was formerly called vital air, because it is that component part of common atmospheric ^ir which alone supports life in respiration: this has been explained in the chapter "On Ventilation." Oxygen is the other constituent of water. 1726. Nitroge7i is likewise solid in all animal substances, the fleshy fibre, albumen, and the caseine of milk, and also enters, though rarely, into the composition of vegetables. When separate it forms nitrogen gas, one of the components of the atmosphere. Some are of opinion that we may derive a portion of nitrogen from the air which we breathe, as well as from our food. The air of the atmosphere is composed of oxygen and nitrogen. 1727. We have stated, that the elementary principles of which the whole human frame and that of all animals consists, are chiefly those four which we have just described. This being the case, it is obvious that, to repair any loss of substance to which we may be liable, it must be necessary to find some materials composed of the same ingredients or elements as ourselves ; and that these alone can constitute food or aliment. Since all animal sub- stances consist of the same elements, though in proportions slightly different, eveiy species of flesh contains the materials for nutriment. The carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen of which they consist may be made to supply any loss of those principles which we daily suffer, by using them as food. In like manner, vegetables may answer the same purpose, because they consist of the same elements, the nitrogen, however, being in much smaller quantity. Thus no substances can ever support life except they contain the elemen- tary principles we have enumerated; and all such, if in an organised state, that is to say, in the condition of animal or vegetable bodies, may compose food under some management or other. Farther, the substance of vegetables and of brute animals are the only bodies in nature, except ourselves, which are composed of these four elements : and thence we see the reason why mineral substances, such as stones and metals, which consist of elements very different, cannot by any means constitute nutriment nor support life. 1728. From this statement we easily pei'ceive how important, and indeed necessarj', is the science of chemistry; since it is by its assistance only that we can determine accu- rately what class of substances is capable of being converted into nutriment, and what it is impossible we can employ in this manner ; and it must be unnecessary to insist upon the value of that knowledge by which we distinguish, in the most correct manner, the substances by which alone life can be sustained. 1729. It may be said, that the experience of ages has apparently rendered this study very little necessary. Mankind universally understand that animals and plants may supply thein with food, and that they cannot extract nourishment from rocks and stones. Nevertheless it is well known that the arts of civilised life have enabled men to multiply in an extra- ordinary degree the means of subsistence which he possessed in the savage state, when wild fruits, herbs, and roots, the natural produce of the soil, together with the flesh of such animals as were taken in hunting, were his sole support: and we know how scanty and pre- carious is the supply of these in most parts of the world. Some countries, as Australia, naturally produce few animals, and scarcely any vegetable food fit for the support of life. The result of this uncertainty with regard to the means of subsistence is, that tribes who have no other resource can have no fixed settlement, but roam about in search of some kind of food; amongst these, under such circumstances, civilisation has made no progress, but they remain to day as they probably were thousands of years ago. It would appear that the first step towards civilised life was the domestication of animals, and the raising of vegetables by cultivation. We all know the advantages which we derive from flocks and herds of cattle ; but the astonishing changes and improvement produced in the vegetable kingdom by the ingenuity and industry of man can only be seen by studying the history of our culinary vegetables, many notices of which will be found when we describe the various kinds. But not only has the gardener and agriculturist contributed largely to the improve- ment of mankind, by increasing his food, but chemistry has also afforded Miluable assistance. Not to dwell upon an infinity of processes by which various alimentary substances have been improved, and are daily improving, through its means, we shall mention some ex- traordinary instances of the power of chemical science in its present advanced state. From dry bones, formerly considered useless as human food, a large quantity of whole- some aliment is now extracted by a •chemical process. But the late discoveries of Bra- connot and others are so wonderful, that, were they not well authenticated, incredulity respecting them might well be excused. Even common sawdust has, by a very simple process, through the means of sulphuric acid and a little chalk, been converted into a substance closely resembling gum arabic ; and this, by another process, has been changed into sugar. In a similar muuuer, gum and sugai- may be made from hemp, flax, and.