Book VII BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 726 Tlie Importation from the East U yet In Its infancy; most of it is not of forty years* standing: and ti manufacture of sugar in Siam, Tonquln, and tlie I'liilipplucs is not twenty-five years old. 4144. Sugar may be grown, as far as climate is concerned, about thirty degrees on each side of the equator, or tlie space contained between the dotted lines on the accompanying map,j^. 607., in which the shaded parts are those where it might be cultivated, if the soil permits : yet for various reasons, at present we derive com- paratively only a small portion except from a few West Indian islands, which, from their size, are barely visible on the maps ; and some from Hindostan, shaded dark. Sect. V. ANALYSIS OF SUGAR. 4145. Although we have stated, Book VII. Chap. VII. Sect. V., that sugar helongs to that class of substances in -which the oxygen and hydrogen exist in the proportion requisite to form -water, yet the proportion of this -water, or of the elements of -water, varies in dif- ferent kinds of sugar. Dr. Prout has paid much attention to this subject, and in a paper pubished in the Transactions of the Royal Society, he gives the following analysis, -which has been made -with extreme care. Pure colourless sugar- -> candy . .J Impure or common? sugar-candy . J East India sugar-candy English reSned sugar . Carbon. 42-85 41-9 41-5 to 42-5 Water. 57-15 41-5 to 42-5 58-5 to 67-5 58-1 68-5 to 67-5 Carbon. Water. East India refined sugar . 4-2-2 57-8 Maple sugar . . 42-1 57-9 Beet-root sugar . 42-1 67-9 East India moist sugar . 40-88 .59-12 Sugar of Narbonne honey - . 36-36 63 63 Sugar from starch or potatoes . 36-2. 638 CHAP. XIV SUaAR IMADE FROM OTHER PLANTS BESIDES THE SUGAR-CANE. 4146. Although no vegetable produces sugar equal in quantity-with the sugar-cane, yet it is well-kno-wn that this useful substance may be procured by evaporating the sweet juice of many other plants ; accordingly, sugar is obtained in various parts of the world from other sources, as several species of palms, the sugar maple tree, beet root, and grapes. Palm sugar is made only in the East; sugar from the maple tree is manufactured in North America ; and the beet root and grapes have been employed chiefly in France. Sect. I. PALM SDGAK OR JAGGERY. 4147. Sugar is largely manufactured in India by boiling the juice of several species of palm. The palms gro-w only in -warm countries ; augmenting in quantity, varictj-, and vigour, as they approach the equator. Although most of these afford large qimntities of sweet sap, four species are only employed for the purpose of obtaining sugar. These arc the •\vild date (Elate si/lvestris), the Palmyra (Bora.isus^flalielliformis), the Sagwire {Borassiis gomatus), and the Cocoa {Cocoa nucifera). All these are oriental palms, the two latter being natives of countries within 10° of the equator. The Borassus flabelliformis is the most usual; in many parts of India it grows spontaneously, in others it is cultivated with great care. At eight or nine years of age, the trees yield a sweet juice fit for making sugar, or fermenting into liquor. To collect the juice, a man mounts to the top of the tree, having several bottles fastened to his belt. He then cuts off -with his knife a thin slice from the membrane which surroimds the blossoms, and a clear sweet liquor distils