EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY. I'HAP. XV. 291 U 2 SoBSFXT. 1. — Common Red Pottery and Stoneware. 1289. In every civilised countiy an earthenware is made of tlie finer varieties of the lime clay of which bricks and tiles are made, but much better selected, and prepared in a laay mill': the red colour which it acquires on being burnt is owing to the oxide of iron I contains. 1290. Red polteiy includes the common red pans, pipkins, baking-dishes, and a variety i' others in household economy. As this ware does not stand the heat of a fire, it cannot f3 used for many purposes of cookery, for which, in Eng;land, metal is almost universally [•■mployed. This coarse kind of pottery had been made in this country from time imme- u.orial, being, in ancient times, chiefly manufactured at the place still called the Potteries, II Staffordshire, which is now celebrated for the variety of its earthenware of the best description. It is also manufactured in the vicinity of London, and in many other parts f ■ the kingdom, 1291. The materials of which the glaze is nsually made consist of litharge of lead or aldena, which is a lead ore, ground up with clay. After the glaze is laid on, the vessels ve again exposed to a high degree of heat, which causes the lead and the surface of lee clay to vitrify, or ran into glass. This thin coating of glass, being transparent, shows lee red colour of the ware: if a black opaque glaze be required, manganese is mixed iith it. ! 1292. There is a serious objection to this glaze made loith so great a quantity of lead, which ,. that it is soluble in vinegar and the juice of most fruits, especially when hot, and also boiling fat, which renders the use of vessels that are covered with it dangerous to ■.jalth, if employed for holding food. 1 In some countries the use of such vessels in the process of boiling and stewing is for- idden by the laws under severe penalties. In this country, those who understand this ■'.bject take care not to preserve pickles in earthen vessels glazed with mixtm-es contain- jg much lead. 11293. A great improvement was introduced at the Potteries in Staffordshire, in 1690,hj tyro Mothers', named Ebers, from Nuremberg. They manufactured a new kind of fine earth- I'ware of red clay, which they glazed without lead, and by the use of common salt alone. ■ hen the earthenware is in the kiln, salt is thrown in ; and the fumes caused by this ■ibstance has the effect of producing a vitreous glaze on the surface of the ware. The "jde in which this effect, so simple, is produced, deserves explanation. The salt is ■ought to be decomposed by the heat into its constituents, muriatic acid and soda; the rmer flying off in dense white fumes, while the latter attaches itself to the sides of the iire, with the surface of which it forms a thin coating of actual glass (see " Glass ihking") ; and this, being entirely impervious to liquids, answers the intended purpose, iiiis glazing, besides, has the valuable property of being perfectly harmless. Notwith- mnding the obvious advantages of this new glazing, however, in consequence of some iklousy among the neighbours, from the process being kept a secret, they obliged the rangers to leave the country ; but not before the art had been learned by a workman of • 3 name of Astbury, who had made himself acquainted with every part of the process, id who afterwards practised it. 11294. The common brown stoneware was probably the produce of the same period, wing been made in various countries of Europe ever since the fifteenth century. The uinufacture of it was brought to us from Holland by some potters who settled at Lambeth, bhas the valuable property of bearing, without injury, the heat of the fire, which is not ej case with the red ware ; and on this account it has long been employed in various auntries for boiling liquids. Its power of resisting beat renders it useful even for che- ccal vessels; and Macquer says, that, with respect to infusibility, it has all the qualities t the finest old Japanese porcelain. Its body is exceedingly dense and compact; and, wen properly made and baked, it is sufficiently hard to strike fire with steel; it is com- sed of pipe clay, mixed with fine sand, and sometimes broken stoneware ground to iwder, in order to diminish the contraction of the clay in the fire. In the finer jugs. Tie calcined flint is added. The vessels, after having been formed by the potter's Mcel, are fired in a kiln, and glazed by salt in the manner above described. 11295. At present, stoneware is made into water-pitchers, soda-water bottles, pipkins ■■ended to stand the fire ; also crucibles, retorts, and a variety of other chemical appa- I ;us, are made of a material nearly similar. The best kind is still made in the potteries 1 Lambeth, the proprietors of which procure some of their clay from Devonshire and :)rsetshire, and purchase flint ready ground from Staffordshire, where this material can afforded at a cheaper rate than would attend its preparation near the metropolis. Jugs ve often a light and a dark part in the glaze : the light is from .salt alone ; the dark has inixture of some other glaze. The proportions of the ingredients are kept secret by the