-170 Book VII. ON FOOD. SuBSECT. 6.—Basil (Ocymu7ii, Linn.). 25G7. This plant is highly aromatic, its odour resembling that of cloves. There are two principal varieties, the s2veet or larger basil(O. basilicum, Linn.), and the bush or least basil (O. minimum, Linn.), both natives of the East Indies. Though little employed in English cookery, they are favourite herbs with French cooks, on account of their flavour in highly seasoned dishes, and the leaves are used in small quantities in soups and salads. The Chinese also are said to flavour their dishes with basil. 2568. Clart/ (Salvia selaria. Linn.). This is a native of Italy. Its leaves arc some- times used in soups, though some dislike its odour. A medicinal wine is made from its flowers. S0BSECT. 7.—Roscmai-y (JRosmarimis officinalis, Linn.). 2569. This is also a highly aromatic plant, a native of the south of Europe, and derives its name from its beautiful appearance when glittering with dew on the sea shore. Its leaves have a fine aromatic fragrance like camphor, of which, indeed, its oil contains one-fourth. From an old opinion that rosemary had the property of strengthening the memory, this plant has been made an emblem of remembrance or fidelity; which pro- bably led to the custom in some parts of the west of England and Wales of wearing branches of it at weddings and funerals. Infusions of the leaves are put into some drinks; but its chief use is in the flowers giving their fragrance to Hungary water, used as a cosmetic. It also enters into the composition of Eau de Cologne, and four-thieves- vinegar. SuBSECT. 8.—Lavender (^Lavandula spica. Linn.). 2570. Lavender is a highly odoriferous plant, scarcely used in cookery, but is extremely valuable on account of its agreeable perfume. The leaves and flowers are both aromatic, and when dried they are put among linen. From their flowers the well-known perfume, lavender water, is prepared. The ancients employed this plant to aromatise their baths, and to give a sweet scent to water in which they washed; hence their generic name, Lavandula. It grows spontaneously in the south of Europe, and has been cultivated in England since 1568 : a great deal is grown near London, and sold to the druggists, per- fumers, and distillers. The essential oil when procured pure is sometimes called oil of spike. Sixty ounces of flowers yield only an ounce of this oil; hence its high price, and frequent adulteration. SoBSECT. 9.— Tansy (Tanacetum vulgare. Linn.). 2571. Tansy grows wild in Britain, and is cultivated in gardens. Its leaves, having a powerful aromatic bitter, are sometimes chopped or bruised to put into certain puddings, or the juice alone is so employed: its use is very ancient. There are three varieties; the plai7i and curled leaved, and the variegated. Sdbsect. 10. — Saffron. 2572. This is the dried stigmata of a bulbous plant, the Crocus sativus, once much culti- vated in England, and used in seasoning dishes in the time of Richard II. It is now chiefly employed as a colouring matter for cheese and butter. It is still cultivated near Glazenwood in Cambridgeshire, and at Stapleford. "NMien good saffron has a beautiful yellow colour, and an agreeable odour, it yields its active principle, an essential oil, to water and spirit. Dr. A. T. Thomson in his Materia Medica states, that it excites the nerves of the stomach, and is in some degree narcotic ; its incautious use has sometimes been attended with dangerous consequences. It is sometimes adulterated with safiBower and marigolds ; but the adulteration is easily detected, for the petals of these flowers will appear distinct from the stigmata of the crocus. Some saffron is imported from the Con- tinent ; but it is inferior to the English. ScBSECT. 11.—Laurel or Bay Leaves. 2573. Bay leaves are often mentioned in the receipts for cookery. As there is some confusion with respect to the name, it is necessary to put this matter in a clear light. The name of Bay has been applied to two trees very difterent The proper laurel tree (Laurus nobilis, Linn.), the classical laurel, is commonly called the bay tree, or sweet bay tree; but its leaves, though slightly aromatic, are harmless, and are seldom, if ever, employed in cookery. A species of the genus Prunus (Prunus launis-ccrasus. Linn.), a kind of cherry tree, has leaves nmch resembling those of the laurel, whence the name laxiro-cerasHs, or cherry laurel; this is also sometimes called bay, and is the sort employed for its flavour. The cherry laurel is an evergreen tree, cultivated in gardens; its leaves