JEWELLERY. 1064 Book XXL number of persons are employed in these -works. It is said that the diamond mines of India are nearly exhausted, and that Brazil now chiefly supplies the markets of Europe j the mines are the property of the crown, and strangers are not permitted to visit them. It is a curious fact in the history of Brazilian diamonds, that when they were first dis- covered in that country, they were kept as pretty pebbles, and used for counters by card- players, long before their true nature and value was ascertained by the Dutch consul who accidentally saw them. 6373. Rough diamonds, that is, diamonds in their natural state, before they are cut by the jeweller, are crystallised; and when perfect, exhibit regular forms, of which the simplest is the octohedron, a, Jig. 813., or modifications of it, as a, b, c, without the polish and i ^rs^ cbrilliancy which is given by art; indeed, in their yf/\\ <^ XTX '■""S'l unpolished state, they would not be readily --//--AN distinguished from common pebbles by persons not sA/^r—/^ / Pi'^ictised in examining them. In general, also, their \\// ^\//"'^ angles have been much rubbed off', so that they appear nearly round, resembling in a considerable F>e- S13. degree gum arable. Those, however, who are in the habit of seeing them often readily recognise them among other pebbles, and this partly by a peculiar grating noise which they give when rubbed against a pebble: occasionally, though rarely, the natural faces have great brilliancy. The diamond is the hardest of all known substances : and it is supposed by some not to be capable of being broken by the blow of a hammer. But though the substance is extremely hard, it is not difficult of frac- ture : a slight blow will cause it sometimes to split ; and the sharp side of a cut diamond is often chipped off' by careless management. 6374. Attempts have been made to fabricate the diamond by chemical means: but hitherto always without success : the idea is, however, not absurd, since we know its composition to be pure carbon only ; and could the means of crystallising carbon be discovered, this object would be attained. Diamonds would then be more useful to mankind in the arts, though their great value might cease to exist. 6375. We hear sometimes of Cornish diamonds, Bagshot diamonds, Sfc. These are merely small transparent quartz crystals which have been rolled and water-worn, and are found among the sand or gravel on the surface : they are sometimes cut and polished, and though brilliant and sparkling, have little of the splendid tints of the diamond, and do not come near to it in hardness, being only a little harder than glass : they are of very little value. 6376. The art of cutting diamonds, the hardest gems in the world, is so curious, that we shall describe it. This gem may be split by a steel tool if a blow be applied : but to effect this, it is necessary to have a perfect knowledge of its crystallised structure; because it will only split in the direction of the laminae formed by the crystallisation, and the workman cannot form faeettes at pleasure by splitting. To produce the faces which are required for exhibiting the gem in all its beauty, the process called cutting is resorted to : but which is in fact abrasion rather than cutting, and was first discovered in Europe in 1476 by Louis de Berghen of Holland, though probably known in China and Hin- dostan in very remote periods. For this purpose, the diamond to be cut is fixed on the end of a stick or handle, in a small ball of cement ; that part which is to be reduced being left to project. Another diamond is also fixed in a similar manner, and the two stones "are rubbed against each other with considerable force, until they are ground away as much as is necessary to produce a facet. Other facets are formed in a similar manner by shifting the position of the diamonds in the cement. When the faces are thus completed, they are next to receive an exquisite polish. Nothing is capable of polishing the diamond except its own powder, which has been collected for this purpose in a small box during the process we have just described. The stones are now imbedded in soft solder, contained in a small copper cup, the face to be polished being left to pro- trude. A flat circular plate of cast-iron is then charged with diamond powder produced in the abrading process, and the stone is held against this plate, while it is made to re- volve until the polish is complete. Those diamonds that are unfit for working on account of their imperfections are sold under the technical name of bort. These are broken by repeated blows in a steel mortar, until they are reduced to powder, for various purposes. 6377. The diamond is a substance of considerable utility in the arts, independently of its value as an ornament. Fine drills are made of small splinters, which are used for drilling holes in rubies and other hard stones used by watch jewellers in the best kind of clock- work, gold and silver wire-drawers, and others who require very fine holes drilled in such substances. These drills are also used to pierce China-ware, where rivets are to be inserted ; also for piercing holes in artificial enamel teeth, or any vitreous substances, however hard. The fine powder is used for grinding down other very hard stones, none of which can be cut or engraved without this material: arms, crests, cameos, intaglios, are engraved upon carnelian, onyx, agate, &c. by means of diamond powder.