STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. )3ook XX. 1060 metal pipe flxcil on to its spout, and connected with a tin box, about eighteen inches or two feet long, or any other size that may be convenient. Near the top of this box a tin cover is to be fixed, having circular holes cut in it to receive capsules or any other vessels, into whicli the substances to be dried iire put, the bottoms of them being exposed to the steam, which fills the box. When a quantity of leaves are to be dried, a tin tray fits on the top of the box to hold them, and the circular holes are left open to suffer the steam to come to tlie bottom of the tray. The application of this principle of using steam heat may be varied in an inhnity of ways, as it is easily conducted by means of pijies to any place in the apartment. 6337. Aromatic flowers may be preserved for distillation by the following method: Bruise the petals with salt, three pounds of rose leaves with a pound of common salt. Put the paste into an earthen jar, or water-tight barrel. This must be kept in a cool place. When it is wanted for distillation, a quantity of this paste may be put into the still, with twice its weight of water. By applying heat in the usual way, the distilled water comes over perfumed with the essential oil. This process may be performed at any time of the year. Some chemists have been of opinion that herbs and flowers, moderately dried, yield a greater quantity of volatile oil, than if they were distilled when fresh. It is, however, improbable, that the quantity of volatile oil will be increased by drying; on the contrary, part of it will be dissipated and lost; but drying is useful in other ways, either by diminishing the bulk of the substance to be distilled, or by causing it to part with its oil more easily. CHAP. VI. TINCTUKES AND EXTRACTS. 6338. A tincture is a solution of any coloured substance in spirits of wine. Rectified spirits of wine is the direct menstruum of the resins and essential oils of vegetables, which, not being soluble in water, or in a very small degree, cannot be extracted by it. Pure alcohol dissolves the greater number of the active principles of vegetables, except the ligneous fibre ; viz. sugar, resin, extractive, tannin, camphor, the essential oils, several acids, and the narcotic principle. Gum is soluble in water, but not in alcohol; and rectified spirit containing a portion of water dissolves gum resins, which are inter- mediate between gum and resin. Pure alcohol is seldom required in the formation of tinctures, rectified and proof spirit being adequate for most purposes. Tinctures are not liable to suffer spontaneous decomposition, as is the case with infusions and decoctions ; and if the bottles containing them be closely corked, they may be kept for any length of time unchanged. When spirituous tinctures are eva- porated till they are of a thick consistence, they are called balsams. 6339. Tinctures are prepared by pounding the ingredients to be acted upon, putting them into a close vessel with alcohol or spirits of wine, and assisting the solution by a temperature not exceeding 80°, at which heat, by allowing the menstruum to act upon the ingredients for a sufficient time, all the prin- ciples that are soluble in it are extracted. The liquid should then be passed through filtering paper : the balneum marias is the best method of applying the heat, and the vessel should be frequently shaken during the digestion. 6340. Tinctures may also be prepared rapidly, by moistening the pounded materials with some of the spirit intended to be used to the consistence of a thick paste ; then putting it into a percolator, fg. 812., and pouring over it the remainder of the spirit. As it passes through the paste, the spirit dissolves the soluble matter, and drops as a tincture into a bottle placed to receive it. When it ceases to drop, water should be poured into the percolator, which will draw out the tincture without mixing with it A piece of rag should be tied over the lower orifice of the percolator. Fig. 812. 6341. Tincture of lemon-peel This is a very easy and economical way of preserving the aromatic flavour of lemon peel. Whenever a lemon is used, pare the riiid off very thin, and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, containing brandy or proof spirit. The spirit will in a lew weeks be strongly flavoured. 63'1'2. Dr. Kitc/icnt r'.i quintessence qf Innon-pi el.—Vrocurc a drachm of the e.^scntial oil of lemons, and mix it gradu.iUy with two ounces of the strongest rectified spirit. This possesses all the delightful fragrance and flavour of the freshest lemon-peel. A few drops on the sug.ir put into punch instantly impregn.ites it with :i6 much of the flavour as is obtained by tlio troublesome and inelegant process of rubbing the sugar upon the rind of the lemon. It is likewise admirable for flavouring blanc mange, jellies, negus, custards, and cverytliing for wliich the aromatic flavour of the lemon is Avantcd. , , . . 6343 Tini tfirc qfpingrr, improperly called e.'ssence of piyiacr—Infuse three ounces of grated ginger, and two ounces of the thin parings of the rind of lemons, in a quart of brandy or proof spirit. 6344 Tincture of cai/emu; improperly called essence. — Steep half an ounce of Cayenne pepper in half a pint of brandy or wine for a fortnight. Pour off the clear liquid. Tliis is prei;er,ible for preparing fish sauces and mrmy other articles of cookery, as the fiavour is instantly and equally diffused ; and it is libewise more e.isy and accurate to 8C.TSon with this than with the pepper itself. , . • ,, i, .i, 634.') Tincture of Chili..,- .Steep .'in fresh red chilies in hall a pint of brandy for a fortnight; this has the same properties as the last. This is also usuallj-railed essence of Chili, but impropcHy. 6346 Essence qf lemon or orange-peel, bn Dr. kitchener's method. — V\ ash and brush clean Uie lemons ; let