Book IV. IGO ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 160 a by escape at the lateral opening d; but this chamber is already occupied by atmospheric air, which must therefore be driven off as the oil enters ; or, if the construction of the vessel prevents its escape, then, by the known properties of atmospheric air, and the laws of hydrostatic pressure, it will be condensed by the pressure of the superincumbent column of the invading liquid, until its resistance, or the power of its counteraction, be- comes equal to the weight of a column of the liquid, of diameter equal to that of the vessel into which it is forced, namely, 2, and of height equal to that of the column of supply, namely, cd. Now, imagine the oil to be thus poured into the chamber z, until it be filled, the air it contains will then be driven into the chamber y by the passage ik, and by the tube nin. Now, if the lamp be placed in an inverted position, the contents of z will run through i h into the chamber y. During the passage of the oil from z into y; atmosphere again enters z by the passsge c d; and now, if we again fill c d with oil as before, the air that z contains will be condensed, and its counteraction will drive out the oil contained in y by the passage i h, through the only exit it finds, namely, the mouth of the passage vin, which, as already described, supplies the wick. It now only remains to say, that the operation last mentioned, of pouring in oil at the tube cd, also fills the upper chamber x by the aperture h, the air it contained escaping through a small tube p. The contents of this chamber sustain the supply of the tube cd. It now appears that the action of the lamp depends simply on the tube of supply, mn, delivering to the wick uniformly enough oil, and with sufficient rapidity, to support combustion, and not so much or so rapidly as to encumber it. This is done by insuring a just equilibrium between the altitude of the maintaining column c d, and the column maintained, m n." When these lamps are sent to India, a contrivance is added to prevent the flame fi'om being blown out by the action of the Puncha, an apparatus for producing cnrrents of air for ventilation: and likewise to prevent the light being extinguished by swarms of mosquitoes, as frequently happens. For this purpose a plate of metal pierced full of very small holes surrounds the aperture by which the air enters to feed the flame. In the ordinary lamps to be used in this country, this plate is perforated, so as to form an ornament having wide openings. Sect. XIL carcbl lamp. 710. The Carcel lamp gives perhaps the' most beautiful light of any for domestic purposes, and is generally used by the opulent families in Paris. The following opinion respecting it is that given by Dr. Ure. In this lamp the oil is raised through tubes by clock-work, so as continually to overflow at the bottom of the burning wick ; thus keeping it thoroughly soaked, while the excess of the oil drops back into the cistern below. Its light, when furnished with an appropriate tall glass chimney, is very brilliant, though not perfectly uniform, since it fluctuates a little, but always perceptible to a nice observer, with the alternating action of the pump-work ; becoming dimmer after every jet of oil, and brighter just before its return. The flame, moreover, always flickers more or less, owing to the powerful draught, and rectangular reverberatory shoulder of the chimney. This me- chanical lamp is, however, remarkable for continuing to burn, not only with unabated, but increasing splendour, for seven or eight hours : the vivacity of the combustion increasing evidently with the increased temperature and fluency of the oil, which, by its ceaseless circulation through the ignited wick, gets eventually pretty warm : besides, it emits very different quantities of light, according to the differences in the nature and supply of oil, as well as variations in the form and position of the chimney. It is little used in England, nor can it hardly be ti'usted in the hands of ordinarj- servants, for when it gets deranged, it must be sent to its constructor in Paris to be repaired. Sect. XIL* young's vesta lamp. 710a. The lamp is an instrument of such great and general utility, that it is not sur- prising numerous attempts are now making to improve it. For many years the lamp of Argand was considered so perfect, that scarcely anything more was thought desirable, and of course little or no improvement was made upon it. The French glasses described in p. 151., c, fig. 122., where the glass was contracted at the level of the flame by a shoulder, was the first improvement on the original construction by Argand, whose glass was simply cylindrical ; but by this new form, the air, instead of rising by the side of the flame as before, was made to impinge upon it, thus causing the combustion to be more complete. This^eflect is still better attained in the Solar lamp, invented by Mr. liynner : his cap of brass (see Jigs. I.'i4, l.S.'j, 1.36.) had the advantage of being more durable than the glasses, which are very apt to break. But as the principle was not new, the patent for the Solar lamp could not be maintained, notwithstanding it was the first lamp by which the common fish-oil could be burned without smoke. The idea of causing the