ON FOOD. 510 Book VII. SuBSECT. 13. — Papau {Carica Papaya). 2838. The papau, which resembles a gour<I, about the size of an ordinary melon, growg on a branclilejj tree m the East and West Indies. It is cultivated, and is eaten both raw and coolied. It is wholesome, but not very palatable. It is usually gathered when half-grown, and soaked in water to withdraw an acrid milk like mangoes, for which it sometimes forms a substitute. The milk of this fruit is a singular subsUnce, for it contams a large proportion of a species of fibrin, very like that of animal flesh, and that of fungi, a circum- stance which is uncommon among vegetables ; and the exhalations from the leaves of the tree have so powerful an effect, tliat newly-killed ine.it suspended on tlic tree in a few hours becomes quite tender j and the flesh of old hogs and poultry fed upon the leaves are said to be a3 tender as tliat of young pigs and pullets. SuBSECT. U. — The Alligator, or Avocado Pear, (Laurus Persica). 2839. This is another West Indian fruit, about the size of an apple. It is considered as one of the most delicious of fruits. It consists of a kernel inclosed in a soft rind, and the yellow pulp has the firmness and delicate flavour of the peach, but much superior. SuBSECT. 15.— Tlie Anchovy Pear (Grias cauliflora'). 2840. It is, likewise, one of tlie fruits of the West Indian islands. It much resembles the mango in taste, and when green is sometimes pickled. It might be raised in England like the pine-apple. CHAP. X. SPICES. Sect. I. GENERAL REMARKS. 2841. All the substances classed as spices are the produce of tropical climates only; none of our native plants, and no plants that come to maturity in the open air in this climate, possess sufficient aromatic flavour to be reclconed among the spices. The most valuable of these natural productions were originally found in the islands situated in the Indian Ocean, called the Spice Islands, or Moluccas, and were probably conveyed from them in the most distant ages. The spices which Queen Sheba presented to Solomon were unknown in Palestine, and probably came from Ceylon or some of the islands to the east. The delicious aromatics of tropical regions were highly prized by the ancient nations; and, besides spices, we read of frankincense and myrrh, from the East, as ranking amongst their most esteemed luxuries. The wealthy Romans indulged in these to an extravagant degree; as navigation and the means of intercourse between distant nations improved, from the facility of transport, they found their way as articles of traffic to countries very remote from the places of their production; and the inhabitants even of the northern parts of Europe shared in the advantages of this commercial spirit. 2842. On the use of foreign spices, we may quote Dr. Paris in his work " On Diet" " These were not," he observes, " intended by nature for the inhabitants of temperate climes ; they are heating, and highly stimulant. I am, however, not anxious to give more weight to this objection than it deserves. Man is no longer the child of nature, nor the passive inhabitant of any particular region ; he ranges over every part of the globe, and elicits nourishment from the productions of every climate. It may be therefore necessary that he should accompany the ingestion of foreign aliment with foreign con- diment. Nature is very kind in favouring the growth of those productions which are most likely to answer our local wants. Those climates, for instance, which engender endemic diseases, are in general congenial to the growth of the plants that operate as antidotes to them. But if we go to the East for tea, there is no reason why we should not go to the West for sugar. The dyspeptic invalid, however, should be cautious in their use ; they may afford temporary benefit at the expense of permanent mischief. It has been well said, that the best quality of spices is to stimulate the appetite, and their worst to destroy, by insensible degrees, the tone of the stomach. The intrinsic goodness of meats should always be suspected, when they require spicy seasoning to compensate for their natural want of sapidity." Sect. II. PEPPER (Piper, Linn.). 2843. This is a well-known spice of an aromatic odour, and an extremely pungent and acrid taste. 2844. Black pepper (Pipcrniyrum, Linn.) is the fruit of a species of climbing vine, a native of the East Indies, and found on the slopes of mountains in the southern parts of