ON FOOD. 366 Book VII. public rejoicing, when faggots and combustible materials were collpcted for the purpose of illumination At I.vnr. .-""".'h "P"'""'' ' '"J"'^ P'.'rpc.ses. Tlu-y are useful to mechanics'when ivory " oul 1 be to, expensive; they are essential m tlie lormation of sal-ammoniac and phosphorus ; produce an oil mucli u'ed by coacli and harness makers, called neat's foot oil, and. wlien ground toi.iwder, form a valuable manu e &c Snice bones with us can be so profitably employed, perhaiis it is not desirable to imitate our continental neighbours m malving soup Irom them, particularly as this is not a la»ourite food in lingiand. ScBSECT. 7 Cartilage. The ends of the bones at the joints are capped by a smooth white substance, somewhat softer than themselves, upon whicli they move and turn ; this is cartilage. It is the first part of the bone which is formed in the foetus state of the animal, and the earthy part begins afterwards to be deposited when the animal comes into the world, and obtains food. Cartilage consists of coagulated albumen with a very little gelatine, and therefore is not soluble in boiling water, except by long-continued boiling under pressure. In very young animals the bones are almost all cartilage, the elasticity of which is the reason that they are so little hurt by a fall: as animals advance in age, the bones become harder and more brittle, having more albumen and earthy matter, and less of gelatine. In some fishes, as in the skate, the bones are entirely cartilaginous. 1792. Teeth consist of the same material as bone, except the enamel on the. exterior, which is phosphate of lime and carbonate of lime, in the proportion of 78 parts of the former and G of the latter. 1793. Jvoi-t/ is nearly the same as bone, with a large proportion of gelatine. 1794. Horn differs from bone in containing scarcely any phosphate of lime, being com posed almost entirely of coagulated albumen with a very little gelatine; they are therefore not much different from cartilage. Horns soften by heat, so as to be moulded into any form, but do not dissolve in boiling water. The horns of some animals, as those of tli ox, are hollow, and have the central cavity filled up by a bony part called the core. Th horn of the stag, however, is a remarkable exception ; it differs entirely from the horns the ox or sheep, being more analogous to bone, and consisting of much gelatine, wi some phosphate of lime ; hence, as was observed before, it is soluble in water, and from is made hartshorn jdly. 1795. Hoofs, nails, feathers, hair, and wool, are verj' similar to horn in their com position. SuBSECT. 8.—Fat. 1796. Fat is an animal oil of various dcf/rces of consisfenci/, according to the hind of anima or the particular part of the body in which it is situated. It is contained in the minute cells of the cellular tissue or texture above mentioned ; and is chiefly collected between the skin and the muscles, or in the interstices between the muscles, or round the viscera. While the fat remains in the living body, it is always in a fluid state, or semi-fluid; but its consistence changes when it is extracted and exposed to the common temperature of the atmosphere. When examined by a powerful microscope, this fat or animal oil is seen to be contained in extremely minute hollow cases, which are of different shapes, spherical, or even polygonal, according to the animal, as in man, oxen, sheep, and other quadrupeds. The case itself resembles the nature of spermaceti. 1797. Of the varieties offat in qnadrupcds suet is the firmest; the next in hardness is the fat of bones, and the next to that the fat in the muscles. The fat of the hog is the least solid. The fat of birds has little solidity, and in many species it is always fluid : this is usually distinguished by the term grease, as goose grease. The fat of fish is always an oil or fluid, except spermaceti. 1798. Suel is the fat which invests the kidneys of oxen or sheep. The internal fat of all ruminating animals is harder than that of others, and is slightly brittle : when melted and separated from the membranes in which it is contained, it constitutes tallow. 1799. Lard is the fat of the hog separated in the same manner. It differs from suet little, but in being of a softer consistence. Its use to the cook is well known. The hog's ard that is sold in bladders is ])repared by chopping the raw lard fine, or rather rolling t out to break the cells in which the fat is lodged, and then melting the fat by a water- ■jath or other gentle heat, and straining it warm into bladders; or by melting the raw jard in water, and skimming it off when cold ; but, by the latter process, a quantity of water is always contained in it, and this kind of lard grows sooner rank that when melted by itself. 1800. To olilnin animal fat in general in a pure state, it is to be melted and strained from the investing membranes, and a little water is tidded, while melting, to prevent its being scorched. When thoroughly purified it is white, inodorous, and tasteless, while quite fresh, and is then very analogous to fixed vegetable oil, (see Sect. 10, Chap. VII.. Hook \\\.): it, however, becomes sooner rancid than the latter if exposed to the air, a change which is owing to an absorption of oxygen, and the consequent formation of an acid, which is