1127 PARTS OF A CARRIAGE. Chap. VI. 4 C 4 have obliged a few to keep two carriages. But another motive has perhaps been still more forcible. In travelling with a carriage rapidly, it is necessary to go with post- horses, or to travel by very easy stages, with a single pair. Few persons like to travel slowly, and fewer still to leave their horses behind them, and be deprived of their use ; and as the habits of those who keep carriages are mostly migratory at particular periods of the year, they would rather cease to keep horses and carriages than be confined to one spot. The desirable thing is to have one pleasure carriage perfect in all its parts, and to be able to convey it, servants, horses, baggage and all, at a rapid pace, from one point to another, without injury to the carriage or horse ; and to have the perfect use of it at any required spot, with as much facility as though the owner had not left his home. This railroads will, in time, accomplish, as the carriage can be put on a platform, and conveyed with the steam vehicles, as well as the horses." 6701. To preserve carriages much care is required ; and consideration should be paid to the various mate- rials of which they are composed, which are as delicate as those of furniture. The coach-house should have a boarded floor laid hollow for the circulation of air beneath, and be extremely dry and well ventilated. It should not be placed, as is often the case, adjoining to stables, in the vicinity of dung-heaps, cess-pools, or open drains, as the gases disengaged from these places have a very injurious effect upon the paint and varnish. The woodwork is apt to swell with damp and shrink with he«\t, and, though it is well painted, yet the moisture wtU in some degree find its way in. If it be exposed in too dry situations the p.inels will shrink and perhaps crack : the wheels also require to be frequently wetted to prevent shrinking, particularly in summer. The iron-work is liable to rust with damp, which at last forces off the paint: the plated and brass-work tarnishes and suffers from the same cause. It is better to rub these dry every day than to suffer them to contract tarnish, which requires to be got off with whiting or plate powder. Leather requires frequent oiling to preserve its tenacity, which is particul.arly essential in those parts where great strength is required. Certain Icithers, as heads and knee-d.ips, where they are used merely to keep out the rain, are sometimes blacked or japanned, which answers for a time, so long as they do not crack ; this saves a great deal of trouble in oiling, .md has a good appearance. The cloths and linings of the inside should be kept free from damp, which will occasion them to rot from mildew, and the sun's rays will destroy their colours ; but above all it is necessary, by frequent brushing and other precautions, to keep them from moths. To preserve hammer- cloths from rain, waterproof India rubber cloth covers are now used ; and this has the advantage of keeping away moths, but the disagreeable odour prevents its being used inside. After tlie carriage has been out, whether in the sun and dusLor rain, it should be carefully washed and dried. It should, if possible, be cleaned before the dirt dries on ft, jind it should be well sluiced with plenty of water to prevent any sand from remaining which might scratch the varnish in rubbing. Sea water should never be used. Great care in cleaning goes much towards the preservation of a carriage. The varnish of the body is very apt to be stained by the various substances in roads : the stains should be got rid of as soon as possible by rubbing with a baize or soft leather and a little sweet oil, drying the place off with flour; or if the stains should be diflicult to get off, a little rotten stone or Tripoli with oil will assist. If the panels appear to begin to shrink, it will be proper to see that they are confined in their grooves, otherwise they may crack, which is a defect diflicult to remedy : but this may happen without the framing giving way in the least. The wear of a carriage depends very much upon the coachman's driving, and looking after it when in the coach- house. He should have a knowledge of the construction of carriages, in order that he m,ay know when any part is out of order, that the proper remedy may be applied in time. Driving very hard over the stones exposes the carriage to many accidents, and the springs and .axletrees are the parts most liable to give way : the wheels also suffer much. The shaking of the c.irriage frequently loosens the bolts and nuts; this should be attended to in time by the coachman, who, if he is skilful, may tighten them himself without always send- ing for the coachmaker: it is prudent, however, to try these once a fortnight, if the carriage has been in constant use. Uattling is a sure sign of something loose that requires to be tightened. When iron works .against iron, rattling often takes place, and sometimes apiece of le.ither put between will stop it. Squeaking may be stopped by a little oil. Repairs, in general, form a considerable part of the expense of a carriage : on an average the wheels require to be renewed every five or six years, or oftener if they are much used 6702. To have the use of a carriage several methods have been resorted to. The most satisfactory mode is to have it built to order, as then it may be made to suit exactly the convenience and taste of those who require it. If the carriage is completely paid for at once the owner takes upon himself all the trouble of keeping it in repair ; but the carriage builder will also let it upon lease for a term of years, generally four or five, engaging to keep it in repair all the time, excluding accidents: the occupier has thus the same advantages as with a ready furnished house. When the term expires, the carriage re- verts to the builder. A third method is to purchase a carriage ready built; in this man- ner one may be often procured at a cheaper rate, but great judgment is necessary in the purchase. Few persons are judges of the qualities of a carriage so as to detect their faults ; and, indeed, from the way in which they are sometimes got up on speculation, it is extremely difficult to discover the defects, except by a trial of some time. On this account the safest mode is to pay a higher price, and trust the reputation of the builder. Carriages may likewise be hired for various periods, as by the week, month, or year. G70.3. Some gentlemen who have carriages of their own job their hor.ses, or hire them by the season or by the year. Careful job masters will stipulate for the employment of their own coachmen, but not always; it is for several reasons objectionable in a quiet family. It is important that every groom or coachman should be a competent judge of the working of a horse, that he may be able to inform his master whether he is properly served. A pair of carriage horses should be well matched ; when this is neglected, one of them is obliged to do more duty than the other and wears himself out: and it is like- wise necessary that the carriage should not be too heavy in draught for the horses, or the horses too light for the carriage. Though carriages are in general made lighter now than formerly, yet some of the light kind have a great deal of iron about them. The fitting of the harness to the horses is likewise important to attend to.