BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book Mil. C22 climates of Asia. Palestine at an early time abounded in vineyards, and the manufacture of wme was known to the Hebrews: the wines of Damascus and of Lebanon were cele- brated. But it does not appear that the vine was cultivated, at least to any extent, iu ancient Egypt; there corn was produced in abundance, and from it the Egyptians pre- pared an intoxicating liquor, probably analogous to beer, which is at present made in many parts of Africa. Among the Greeks, wine was a favourite beverage, and its virtues have been highly extolled by their poets. In the time of Homer, the wine of Maronea in Thrace was made of great strength ; and that of Cyprus, Lesbos, and Chio were long ia high estimation, and were exported to Rome. The cultivation of the vine was not intro- duced into Italy till 600 years after the foundation of Rome ; but it became afterwards an object of diligent attention among the Romans, and we find ample directions iu their writings on agriculture for their management. They frequently trained their vines on lofty trees to the height of thirty or forty feet, from an idea of improving the grapes, although in modern times this practice is condemned. In general the processes for the' manufacture of the wines used by the common people probably did not differ much from some that are employed at present; the fruit was collected, bruised by the feet or sub- jected to a press, and fermented much in the same manner as it is now. 3500. But the;/ were likeivise in the practice of preparing richer and sometimes more durable hinds of luine, the nature of which has given rise to much speculation. Some of these wines, and the manner of producing them, are described by Pliny. The juice of the most luscious grapes was expressed, and kept as much as possible from the contact of the external air, by which the fermentation would be very slight, and the full flavour of the fruit preserved; and in some cases the must was put into an amphora well pitched and sunk in a pond or in the sea for a month or more, until it nearly lost all tendency to fer- ment, and was then in a state between a syrup and wine. They also prepared a rich wine, called/JrtssjflH, from the juice of grapes half dried. 3501. Bolli Greeks and Romans were in the habit of cencentrating their wines by sponta- neous evaporation of tJie must, or by boiling it till it was reduced to one-half or even one- third. By these means the wine was brought to the state of syrup, and required to be diluted with water before it could be drunk. Pliny speaks of wines as thick as honey, which it was necessarj' to dissolve in warm water, and filter. The inspissated wines of the ancients, obtained from rich grapes, may be regarded as corresponding to some modem wines called vino colto, which are prepared by boiling nmst; and the practice of boiling the juice of grapes for culinary purposes is common at this time in France and Italy. 3502. Some of these ancient wines were capable of being preserved for a very long time; and Horace, in his Odes, boasts of drinking Falernian wine of his own age: indeed wines of a hundred years old seem not to have been uncommon among the luxurious citizens of ancient Rome. But we are not to suppose that the Falernian and similar wines were of the kind which had been boiled to a syrupy consistence, since this process of evaporation is not necessar)', as is well known, to their being preserved, since some of the German wines have been kept for two or three hundred years; but these very old wines have been kept so long more for curiosity than use. 3503. Independently of these more simple preparations of tt'me by the juice of the grape alone, the ancients were fond of giving their wines an artificial flavour; and for this purpose they introduced not only honey, aromatic fruits, leaves, flowers, and seeds, but even pitch, rosin, and turpentine. However extraordinary this taste may appear, we have abundant instances of acquired tastes of a similar kind amongst ourselves ; and traces of this practice may still be observed in modern Greece, where wines are still flavoured^ with l^itch. The origin of this taste may, perhaps, be traced in the necessity they were under of rendering their skins, the earliest receptacles for wine, impervious by means of oils and resinous substances, a practice common at present, and likewise of coating with pitch, instead of glazing, their large earthen vessels in which wine was generally preserved, casks of wood being seldom used. Few of the ancient wines probably contained much alcohol; they were chiefly esteemed for their fine flavour and sweetness ; and, when these qualities were naturally wanting, they supplied the defect by adding aromatic substances. But of all the ingredients employed in preparing these mixed wines, that of sea-water is the most singular; and there is no doubt but it was occasionally used, although it would be difficult to reconcile this practice to modern palates. 3504. Another practice of the ancients for mellowing those wines which were of a harsher quality was by exposing them to the heat of the sun, or placing them in apartments warmed by flues called/i/mfo w. This does not ap])ear to differ much from the modem method of improving Madeira by keeping it in a hothouse, or in the vicinity of an oven or kitchen fire to produce early maturity. The Greeks in particular surpassed all other nations in their luscious sweet wines, the best of which were the products of the islands in the Ionian and ^l^gean seas, where the fineness of the climate brought the grapes to an extraordinary degree of perfection ; among others, the Lesbian and (^hian wines were much celebrated. But besides these sweet wines, the ancients were not unacquainted