Chap. I. DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 805 Fig. 768. e The wings and legs being thus separated from the rest of the fowl, the knife must then be entered at the breast, in the directiou rf, by which the merrythought may be displaced, after the knife has been slipped under it, and the bone lifted up, and pressed back- wards towards the dish. The collar-bones, e c, lie on each side of the merrythought, and must also be lifted up by the knife at the broad end, and forced towards the breast bone till the part breaks off to which they are fastened. The breast is cut off by cutting through the ribs on both sides. The back bone is then turned upwards, and the knife passed firmly across it near the middle, the fork being at the same time employed in raising up the lower end towards the knife, and thus dislocating the back almost in the centre. The lower end of the back is then turned from the carver, that the bones on each side may tbe taken off: the exact place in which these side bones are joined to the vertebrae will be t easily found by the point of the knife. The prime parts of a fowl are the wings, breast, aand merrythought. The legs, except of young fowls, are considered as coarse. The thigh [part, when separated from the drumstick, is sometimes preferred by those who consider tthe whiter meat of the fowl as insipid. 4884. Ducks are cut up like fowls, and have the same prime parts. The wing and leg (■of diichlings are sometimes taken off without being separated, if both together do not form Itoo large a portion for one serving. 4885. Turkei/ and goose have slices cut from the breast lengthwise. In carving either •lof these kinds of poultry, the chief art consists in cutting as many slices as possible, no lattempt being usually made at table to separate the joints of these large birds. By bbeginning to cut the slices at the wing, and proceeding upwards towards the ridge of the hbreast bone, many more slices may be obtained than by the more usual plan of cutting rthem from the breast bone down to the wing. No parts of the turkey are considered as pprime except the slices from the breast. The legs are dark-coloured, and have none of tithe delicacy of the breast; but, when devilled, they are relishing and generally liked. 4886. Of a goose every part is juicy and good ; the breast, however, is the most esteemed. 4887. Pigeons are cut through the neck, fig. 769., straight through the whole bird, dividing it into two equal parts. They may also be divided, and it is the more modern way, from b to c. The croup or lower part, with the thigh, is preferred to the upper half of the pigeon. 4888. Game. — The breast of the pheamnt is sliced like that of the turkey, and the rest of the bird is cut up like the common fowl. In taking off the wing a little difficulty some- times occurs, and is caused by attempting to enter the knife too near the neck bone, from which the wing has to be sepa- rated : but here practice only can enable the carver to find out readily the precise point yhich his knife is to attack. Breast, tciiigs, and merrytliought are the prime parts; the Horains are also prized by the true lovers of game. 4889. The partridge is cut up like a fowl, with the exception of the breast, from which ihe merrythought is not separated unless the bird is larger than common. The wing -s the prime part, the tip of which is considered as particularly delicate. Of almost all )irds the breasts and wings are the prime parts, except in the woodcock, the heathcock, md grey hen, of which the legs are esteemed the most delicate part. 4890, Hare may be carved in two ways: when young, the knife may be entered near he shoulder at a, fig. 770., and cut down to b on each side of the back bone. This done, the hare will be in three parts. The back is Fi/;. 770. to be again divided into four parts according to the dotted lines in the cut. These divi- sions of the back are, with the legs, the best parts, although the wings (shoulders), called the sportsman's portion, are prized by some. They are taken off easily in the direction of c de. The parts, each laid neatly on a plate, are served with stuffing, gravy and currant jelly, and melted butter. In an old hare the ivision down the back cannot be attempted, as the hardness of the bone would turn the (Ige of the knife ; instead of which, fillets of meat are cut away from the sides, and istributcd in moderately-sized pieces. The legs and wings are then cut off; the neck "parated from the trunk, which may be divided, at different parts of the vertebra;, into iree parts. From the tail end division of the back two side bones may also be separated. Tthe brains are asked for. the head must be cut off from the neck, and, with the fork, it ■■i K Fig. 769.