FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 984 for amusement, and silk obtained with great care, yet the necessary food, the white mul- berry-tree, requires greater warmth than that of our usual summers; hence all the attempts to raise silk for manufacture have not afforded profitable results. Some have supposed that the animal degenerates here, and lettuce-leaves are a poor succedaneum for the mulberry. If indeed, by due care, silk could be produced in England in sufficient quantity, still the high price of labour would prevent its culture from becoming a source of profit to the producer. Notwithstanding this, the English manufacture has gone on improving steadily, and affords one of the most remarkable instances where an art, borrowed from other nations, and employing a material of foreign growth, has at length equalled that of the countries from which it was derived. Of late, several causes have contributed to improve our silk manufactures; one of the principal has been the removal of the prohibition of importing French silks in 1826, which has compelled our weavers to improve their art in order to compete with French ingenuity. Indeed, in point of substantial excellence, plain silk manufactured in England is now considered at least equal to that of France : while in all mixed fabrics of silk and wool, silk and cotton, silk and linen, &c., our superiority is admitted by the French themselves. But we do not yet rival our neighbours in ribands, figured gauzes, and light fancy articles. The greater attention paid to the art of designing in Lyons, the consequent better taste of the artists, and the superior brightness and lustre of their colours, give them advantages with which it is difficult to contend. Sect. IL formation of silk. 5791. The silkworm, which produces the most splendid article of raiment, is an animal not more remarkable for the precious matter which it furnishes for this purpose, than for the many forms it assmnes. Like many other insects, it goes through four metamorphoses. In its most perfect state it is a white-coloured moth {Phalana Bombyx mori) which lays a number of small eggs, each about the size of a pin's head, from which, in the warmth of spring, the caterpillars are hatched. No sooner does the worm burst its shell than it begins to eat greedily, its food being the leaves of the mulberry-tree, of which there are several species; but the white is preferred. For about thirty days it continues to feed upon them, casting its skin either three or four times. At the end of this period, having attained its full size, it ceases to eat for the remainder of its life, and prepares for one of the metamorphoses which it is to undergo, by spinning a ball of fine silk filaments round itself as a defence from injuries, during its chrysalis state, in which it lies dormant like a swaddled mummy, and apparently dead, for fifteen or twenty days. At length it breaks through this covering, and comes abroad provided with wings, antennae, and feet: in short, a butterfly as above described, which lives only a few days, lays its eggs, and then dies. 5792. In our description of the formation of silk, we shall begin with the hatching of the eggs, which we have just said are deposited by the silkworm. These are generally about five hundred in number by one insect, and when first deposited are covered with a liquid which glues them to the leaf, cloth, or paper on which the female leaves them : they may be freed from this by dipping them in cold water, and afterwards drying them. To pre- serve the eggs, the temperature should be between .54° and 59°; and when the warmth of spring commences, they should be kept in the cool, not exceeding the above heat, lest they should be hatched before the mulberry-leaves come out to supply their food. When required to be hatched, they are laid in a room with a stove, and exposed to a warmth gradually increasing till it reaches 86°, the temperature at which the caterpillar appears, and which takes place in eight or ten days. Previously to this, the eggs should be covered with sheets of paper, pierced with holes about one-twelfth of an inch in diameter, having mulberry-leaves laid on the top. The young caterpillars instinctively find their way through these holes to come at the leaves, which they instantly begin to devour greedily. The leaves, loaded with worms, are then laid regularly on wicker shelves in a well-aired apartment, which should be kept at a temperature from 68° to 86°. Much care is required in managing the silkworms; their food should be regularly supplied, and everything about them should be kept perfectly clean; also the proper ventilation of the room is essential. During each moulting or casting of the skin, the animals fall into a languid state, and eat little; but the appetite revives on acquiring a new skin. The caterpillars indicate the commencement of their spinning silk by ceasing to eat, abandoning the leaves, trying to crawl up on the upright parts, and to conceal themselves in corners. Twigs of heath, broom, or other shrubs are now laid in rows on the shelves, and the little creatures begin to construct on tliese their coverings of silk, called cocoons. 5793. The material of which the silk is formed is a clammy liquid existing in the liodyofthe worm, which it ejects through two apertures, and which hardens in the air. The fila-