1072 JEWELLERY. Book XXL For the sapphire. —To 24 ounces of strass add 2 drachms and 2G grains of the oxide of cobalt. For the Oriental ruhy. — To 16 ounces of strass add a mixture of 2 drachms and 48 grains of the precipitate of cassius, the same quantity of peroxide of iron, prepared by nitric acid, the same quantity of golden sulphuret of antimony, and of manganese calcined ■with nitre, and 2 ounces of rock crystal. Manganese alone, combined with the base in proper quantity, is said to give a ruby colour. For the emerald. — To 15 ounces of strass add 1 drachm of mountain carbonate of copper, and 6 grains of glass of antimony; or, to 1 ounce of strass add 20 grains of glass of antimony, and 3 grains of oxide of cobalt. For the topaz. — To 10 lbs. strass add \\ oz. of calcined iron. For the garnet.—To 2 lbs. of strass add 2 lbs. of glass of antimony, and 2 drachms of manganese. Sect. XXIIL PEARLS. 6416. Pearls are precious, and form beautiful ornaments highly prized. They are cal- careous bodies, of the same nature as mother-of-pearl, only purer, found in the inside of certain shells, particularly a large one, called the pearl oyster (Mytilus margaritiferus, Linn.). The history of pearls is so curious that it may demand a rather detailed account^ The pearl shell, the inside lining of which constitutes the mother-of-pearl, is found only in warm climates. The shell sometimes grows to the size of seven or eight inches in dia- meter, is of a flattened and roundish shape, brown on the outside, but the inside entirely covered with mother-of-pearl. The pearls are found either loose in the body of the animal, or attached to the side of the shells, and they are supposed to be concretions of calcareous matter arising from some irregularity or disease in the animal. These shells are extremely abundant near the shores of some of the East India islands, and particu- larly Ceylon, where the chief pearl fisheries have been established. The shells are brought up by persons who have learned to dive for them to great depths. They descend to the bottom of the sea from five to ten fathoms in depth, assisted by a large stone, which they carry down with them; and being furnished with a basket, they collect, with as much expedition as possible, such shells as happen to lie about the spot of their descent, continuing their search for about two minutes; when, according to a signal which they make to the boat to which their cord is attached, they again ascend with their treasure. Each diver will bring up as many as one hundred shells of various sizes, and some from long habit acquire the power of remaining under water for five or six minutes. It is not every shell that affords pearls : some contain only small ones of little value. The largest and roughest shells generally have pearls of the greatest number and largest size. Pearls are not cut and polished by the lapidary, but are worn in the state in which they are found, being only drilled for the purpose of stringing them, and are valued according to their size and beauty. The finest are of a clear white, and very translucent: those which have a tinge of yellow are less precious. The price of pearls increases as the square of their weight; thus, the price of a pearl of one carat being settled at 8s., to find the price of a pearl weighing 6 carats, first find the square of 6, viz. 36; which multiplied by 8 gives 288 shillings, or 14/. Ss. ; but the value of pearls depends also much upon their quality. It is a curious fact that the Chinese know how to force the shell-fish to produce pearls. They drill holes in the shell, and the animal, to secure itself from the depredations of marine insects that attack it, secretes the pearly juice to close up the aperture, and forms a pearl over it: but the most perfect pearls are those only which, being quite detached, are found globular in the body of the animal. Though pearls are found of the largest size, greatest beauty, and most abundantly in the shell we have mentioned, yet they are not confined entirely to these: common oysters and mussels occasionally contain small pearls: and a fresh-water shell called a xtnio, or pearl mussel, is particularly remarkable for the pearls they contain. It is found in various parts of Britain, but a regular pearl fishery of this shell has been long established on the river Conway in North Wales. The people there go out at low water, and gather a number of these large mussels, which they boil, and beat the fish to a pulp ; they then separate the pearls by mixing this with plenty of water. The pearls are not fine, and are small: they are of the kind called seed pearl, which are used for sewing ou various parts of dress, and similar inferior purposes. Pearls have been employed as ornaments from the earliest ages. In the time of Job they were accounted of great value. The story of Cleopatra drinking a valuable pearl dissolved in vinegar is well known, and may possibly have been true, since this substance, from its calcareous natuix, is soluble in any acid. Before being drank the solution might