DUTIES OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. CChap. I. 333 jnml overdone, without being able to give liis employers satisfaction. In describing the daily routine by whicli this occupations may be pursued witli precision and method, it must be remembered that iu each family there rmay be circumstances and customs to wliich tlie servants must conform, and adapt their business accordingly. 1529. The mode in which a footman plans his work on entering a new service, with the lidetennination he shows to adapt that plan to tlie circumstances around him, and, when I'ouce settled, to adhere to it with as little deviation as possible, displays ability and a nmost desirable habit of order. 1530. The solefoutman in a family has to perform some of the duties both of the superior aand inferior members of the complete establishment; and if in a numerous family, or one which has frequent company, it will require all his diligence and activity to keep every tithing straight and in good order. He must rise early, and endeavour to get some of the roughest part of his work done before his breakfast, dand before lie is required to appear in the breakfast room. In ordei" to preserve the cleanliness of his clothes, 1 (le should be provided with a complete overall suit, made of materials that will easily brush clean or hear swashing. Covered over with these, he brushes the clothes of the gentlemen of the family, then cleans and ; oolishes their boots and shoes which the night before, if wet or damp, he had placed at a proper distance from : :he fire, to drj* them gradually — an attention which enables him afterwards to give them a finer polish. IThese done and set ready to convey to their owners, he then cleans the knives and forks, wipes them, and fonts them away till wanted. After this he washes and cleans himself previously to the preparations for the 1.family breakfast table. After lai/ing the cloth, and placing the required member of cups, saucers, plates, Sc., b-.ie puts the heater into the kitchen fire, sees that water is boiling, and the supplies of bread, butter, &c. ready, .-..ind tlien is prepared for the summons for the urn. His own breakfast time is regulated by that of the family, tr.he footman in some houses taking breaklast with the other servants, and in others in his own pantry on the re"emains of the family breakfast. After the footman has himself breakfasted, washed and replaced in the china closet whatever has been used ofaf china at the breakfast table, together with the plate, waiters, and trays, he must direct his attention lao the cleaning of candlesticks (see " Cleaning"), trimming of lamps (see " Artificial Illumination"), poutting them in right places in his pantry till they are wanted. The mahogany furniture in the dining-room [tor library he must rub daily; and twice weekly he ought to wash away any spots it mav have acquired, r(-estoring afterwards the polish it may h.ive lost, by any of the means mentioned under " Cleaning." SSome of the %vindows he should clean weekly, availing himself of periods in the day when the occupants of he rooms are absent from them. Afterwards returning to the pantry, he should set himself to prepare ' .omething or other for the dinner table ; either to rub the plate, to wipe the glass, &c. until it be time to nrepare for the luncheon. During this part of the day he should be in such a dress as is not inconsistent with mis employments, nor yet unfit for him to appear in if summoned by bells to the parlour or to the hall door. AV coloured cotton or plain cloth jacket and white linen apron are usually worn by footmen while engaged uis above described. The parlour luncheon being generally called for about one o'clock, he must have the -ray set ready ; when carried into the parlour, and properly arranged, he will usually be at liberty to get his *wn dinner, which is generally ready at this period of the day. When his mistress requires it, the footman iiihould be ready to attend her, either with the carria|je, or to i^oUow her if she walks out. For this latter part Uif his morning's duty he should be neatly dressed ; his clothes and hat should be well brushed ; his shoes and titockings and gloves clean. A dirty-looking footman is a disgrace rather than a credit to a family. In ri;iving directions to the coachman he should be quick and accurate ; nor is it altogether needless to remark, ahat, even in his announcing rap at the doors of the parties on whom his lady calls, there is a pfopriety to be ibbserved as to its measiye and degree: if too loud and long, it disturbs a whole neighbourhood : if too insig- 1 iificant, it may be deficient in respect to his lady. Iu following her during her walks, he should preserve a teady decorum of manner, and be observant and ready in case any emergency should make his aid necessary J her. 1531. Waiting at table is one of the most important parts of his employments, and re- lives more skill and attention from him, if unaided by others, than when he is one among I y attendants. Here, any neglect of his other duties will be apparent, and the censure fall on him alone. Knives, forks, plate, and glass will all tell of his industry or of negligence. lie general deportment of a footman, while waiting at dinner, should be quiet and quick, but not hurried i-tling: he should tread lightly ; ch.lnge plates, knives. &c. without clatter, and should speak as little as ible, and never in a raised tone of voice, unless it be necessary in answering questions. He should hand I y thing with the left hand, and to the left of the person he is assisting to any thing. The tablecloth, in '.ving, should have each side and ends lightly thrown together, and be carried out of the room, .and laid I ■ until a convenient opportunity for shaking it and folding it up. On formal occasions the tablecloth is and long slips down e.ich side are used, and removed when dinner is over. It should be wrapped up in folds previously made, and placed carefully in the table-linen press. Dinner over, and the dessert and properly placed on the table, the footman retires to his own pantry to wash glasses, &c., and to put every once more in its right place. Then he prepares for t.iking up cofTee and tea; puts the urn heater into lire i places teacups, &c. on the board ; and sets cakes, bread and butter, milk, &c. on his waiter, ready J ) carry to the drawing-room when required. At night he closes all window-shutters and locks up doors ; iharrles up bed candles ; takes the slippers to his master ; .and, lastly, collects, as far as he can, all small articles 'f f plate, such as teaspoons, which .are in constant dispersion during the day in most houses ; counts all over; it up or places it in security ; —.ind thus closes his daily business. !2. To place candles properly in the candlesticks, though not strictly a branch of cleaning generally, cora- t's this part of the footman's work. Candles should be placed perfectly straight in the candlestick ; any hnation from the perpendicular being not only disagreeable to the eye, but causing the tallow or wax to ' III wastefuUy down the sides, because the heat of the flame acts more powerfully on one side of the candle II on the other. The s.ame eft'ect is produced by dirt or soil on the surface of the candle, as also causing 1 regular action of the heat. If the nozzle of the candlestick be too large for the candle, a small fold of . r must be put round the candle, not so wide as to be visible when the candle is pl.aced in it. The wick .1- candles, if they have not been previously lighted, should be just set fire to, and blown out. For this, ri they arc wanted, they will light the more easily. 11:>. In trimming candles which h,ave been previously in use. It is desirable to pare off the top, so as to form ini the conical shape into which they h.ad been originally moulded. The object of this is to prevent that ir|)lus of melted tallow, caused by the heating of so large a circinnference of tallow, and which the wick can- ot at first consume, from flowing down the sides of candles, wasting as well as disfiguring them. . 1.^34. Candle ends, mould as well as wax, ought to be used upon savealls by the servants, and not put Into ■■ic box of scrapings, to add to the perquisites of those whose office It is to clean the candlesticks.