FISIT. (Chap. VI. 429 f found in abundance in the river Mole, and some in the Regent's Canal. It may also be ! bred in ponds. It feeds upon worms and some vegetables, and much resembles the carp. I Its best season is May ; some think in September. It is not much esteemed for the table, ! being insipid and very bony. It sometimes grows to the length of two feet, weighing ten I pounds. SuBSECT. 14.— Tlie Tench {Cyprinus tinea. Linn.). 2235. The tench is fine flavoured, and generally considered as a rich fish in England : it ; appears to be a native of most parts of the globe, inhabiting chiefly large stagnant waters iwith a muddy bottom, as well as rivers. Its general length is about twelve or fourteen i inches, but it grows sometimes to two or three feet; seldom weighing five pounds. Like I the common carp, tench delight in warmth ; they are scarce near London, and thrive best i in foul and weedy waters. Some extensive tracts of stagnant water in Norfolk abound in ! tench, from which they are removed to stews, where they are fattened upon a mixture of ! greaves and meal. They do not thrive northwards, and few are found near Edinburgh, i From the facility with which they may be bred, and the ease in transporting them from ! their tenacity of life, they perhaps deserve more attention than is paid to their cultivation. ' They spawn in the spring. SuBSECT. 15.— Hie Gudgeon (Cyprinus gohio, Linn.). 2236. This fish is of the carp genus, and in length about eight or nine inches at the 1 utmost, seldom weighing more than half a pound. It is found in gentle streams and lakes, i It is tenacious of life, and remarkably fertile. Gudgeons are in season in the spring, or I from March and April to May, and may be had for five or six months ; yet in the hot ■ summer they are very indifferent. They are firm, well-flavoured fish, and much esteemed I for the table, being little inferior to the smelt. They should be cooked in a frying-pan, i in a few hours or as soon as possible after they are caught, and without being scaled or < opened ; they only require wiping with a wet cloth : opening and washing spoils them. ' They afford much amusement to anglers, fifty dozen a day having been taken. Being a ! gregarious fish, they may be seen in summer in the bottoms of clear rivers by hundreds I together, and they will hve and breed in ponds. They are very fine and numerous in the I rivers Thames, Lea, Mersey, Colne, Kennet, Avon, and also in the New River. The 1 London fishmongers keep them aUve for several weeks in leaden or stone tanks constantly supplied with fresh water. In Bath they are exposed for sale alive in tubs, and are thus t to be had in perfection: they are considered as very easy of digestion, and therefore fit I for invalids. Of the genus Cyprinus some are migratory, inhabiting both the fresh and i salt waters, while others remain in fresh water throughout the year. ScBSECT. 16.— Hie Barbel (^Cyprinus barbus. Linn.). 2237. TTiis is a common fresli-ivater fish, belonging to the carp family, which derives I the appellation of barbus, bearded, from the upper jaw advancing far beyond the lower, and i in having four appendant barbs at its mouth. It is found during summer in the rapid 1 currents and at the stony bottoms of tide rivers, retiring at the approach of winter to the 1 more still and deeper places. Barbels sometimes grow to the length of two or three feet. They are ground or bottom fishes, lurking among the stones and under banks, and are 1 usually found when moderate floods bring down small animals, as snails, leeches, &c., as 1 food. There is an ancient idea that the flesh of the barbel is imwholesome, which is, ] perhaps, a prejudice ; but it is not of a very good flavour, and is little esteemed; 1 no doubt when the fish are out of season they are, like most other fish in the same 1 condition, not wholesome. They are seldom eaten, except by the lowest of the Jews. They are understood to be very voracious and indiscriminate in their feeding; and it is .' said that the roe is sometimes violently cathartic. The Thames from Putney upwards ; produces barbels of large size and in great quantities; also the Lea in Essex ; but they I are chiefly valued as affording sport to the angler. SuBSECT. 17.— The Dace (^Cyprinus leuciscus. Linn.). 2238. This fish is of the carp genus, and has a bright silvery coloui'. It is considered to be light nutritious food, though full of bones, and is caught in most rivers and streams, but does not thrive in ponds or still waters. These fish never attain a great size, seldom weighing a pound. They are cooked in the same manner as roach, which they much resemble, and to which they are rather superior, though not so plentiful. They are gre- garious, swimming in shoals, and spawning in June. The Graining is a variety of the dace, rather more slender.