Book ON FOOD. 386 ig.ig. An inslrummt linS been emjihi/fil fay measuring llw degree of richness of viilk very (HJfereiil from lactometer, whii'li determines its specilic gravity. Tiiis instrument ascertains the proportion of cream wliich any milk will yield, and consists simply ol' a class tube, a little more than a foot long, with a funnel at the top. The upper two inches of the tube are marked in small divisions, and, when the instrument is fillixi with milk to the height of a foot, the depth of cream yielded is shown by the marks on the upper part: allowance must of course be made for the circumstances under which the croam Is formed ; and in comparing two kinds of milk, tliey should be placed in eNactly the same circumstances. Sect. II. BUTTEE. SuBSECT. 1.— General Eemarks. 1960. Butter is, as we have stated, the oil of viilk separated by the agitation called churn- ing; and it dilFev.s from common animal fats in containing, besides olein and stearine, the latter of whicli is quite fluid at 70°, a peculiar matter to which Chevreul has applied the name of butyrine or Imiijric acid, to which the agreeable flavour of butter is owiug. It is exten- sively used as food, and in the culinary art, in this and most northern countries of Europe ; in the south of Europe it is little employed, olive and other vegetable oils taking its place. In the warm parts of tropical climates, butter is always liquid, and it melts at 9G°. In India it is made from the milk of the bufi'alo, and, when clarified, it is called ghee. Burckhardt informs us that the Arabs are extremely fond of this butter, of which they drink a cupful every morning, and use it besides in many other ways. 1961. Beckman, in his "History of Inventions," states " that butter was not used either by the Greeks or Romans in cooking; nor was it brought upon their tables, at certain meals, as is the custom at present. We do not find it mentioned by Galen and others of his time as food, though they have spoken of it as applicable to other purposes. No notice is taken of it by Apicius ; nor is there any thing said of it in that respect by the authors who treat of agriciilture, though they have given us very particular information with respect to milk, cheese, and oil. This, as has been remarked, may be easily accounted for by the ancients having accustomed themselves to the use of good oil; and butter is very little employed at present in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and the southern parts of France." In England it has been made from time immemorial, though the art of making cheese is said not to have been known to the ancient Britons, and to have been learned from their conquerors. S0BSECT. 2.— General Principles of the Formation of Butter. 1962. There are two methods pursued in the manufacture of butter. In one, the cream is separated from the milk, and in that state it is converted into butter by churning, as is the practice about Epping: in the other, the whole milk is subjected to the same process, which is the method usually followed in Cheshire. The first method is generally said lo give the richest butter, and the latter the largest quantity, though some are of opinion that there is little difference either in quality or quantity. 1963. The developement of an acid appears to be almost essential in the preparation of butter. To obtain butter readily, either from cream or milk, both these require to be kept for a few days till sourness commences, and in some cases, a little warmth is employed to hasten the acidity; but the addition of cream already soured is said to be apt to induce putridity. Butter may indeed be made from fresh cream, but it requires much more labour to pro- duce it; and it is said that no butter of good quality can be made from cream that is Hot more than one day old. 1964. Butter is therefore generally made from cream a little sour, and also from milk allowed to turn thick, or, as it is called in some places, lappcrd. When very sour cream or milk are churned, the butter-milk, or.the milk which remains after the butter has been extracted, is not nearly so sour as the cream or milk had been, and the butter, in all cases, is perfectly sweet; consequently the acid which has been evolved has in a great measure disappeared during the churning, an efi'ect not easily explained. 196.5. In chvitiing, the heat must he raised to ,'50° or 50°, and, during the process, there is an increase of temperature amounting to 3° or 4°; a little oxygen gas is absorbed, which has been supposed to be by the oil. 1966. Very rich butter may be made by using only the latter half of the milking, as it is well known that the first portion of milk drawn from the cow is much less rich than the latter. In the Highlands, it is the custom to suffer the calves to suck the first milk, and to use the remainder only for making butter, which by this means they make extremely rich. But this separation could only be made in large dairy ftirms; and it has been remarked, that in districts where cheese is the jjrincipal manufacture, they have the opportunity of making the best butler: contrary to the general opinion, for there they could appropriate the last part of the milkings to the making, of butter, and use the first part in making cheese. As it is, while the whole of the cream is taken to make butter,