STABLES AND MANAGEMKNT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. 1134 Sect. I. GENERAL REMARKS ON THE VARIOUS BREEDS OF HORSES. G733. The horse, no doubt, existed originally in a wild state, as it does now in South America and Tartary, but at what period it was subjected to the dominion of man cannot he determined. All the civilised nations of the ancient world, of whom we have any historical records, not only possessed this animal in a domesticated state, but set a high value upon it, bestowing great pains in training and improving its various breeds or races. The origin of those breeds is likewise unknown, but they were most probably produced by the circumstances of variety in climate, food, and shelter, during a long succession of ages, assisted afterwards by the effects of domestication in different countries. Climate has great influence upon the forms of animals, and in general a species is found indige- nous to each country whose form best fits it for supporting its existence there. Thus in the arid plains of the east, where herbage is scarce, the horse is found to possess a form which enables it to transport itself with great rapidity from one spot to another, without permitting his weight to cause it to sink in the sandy deserts. In wild countries, on the contrary, his size is diminutive, but his compactness and strength, as well as his coarse shaggy coat, enable him to resist the severity of the weather. In temperate climes, where these causes do not operate, and where vegetation affords, by its luxuriance, more nutri- ment, we no longer see him equally small or slender; but, with great capacity still for progression, possessed of more beautiful proportions, with superior muscular power ; vary- ing considerably in his qualities which are adapted to the purposes of war, hunting, parade, the saddle, and draught. 67-34. The indigenous horse of every country has been modified by cultivation ; and the native breeds have at one time or other been more or less mixed with other varieties with a view to improvement. What is meant by purity of blood is the result of limiting the propagation of particular races, and preventing other races from mixing with them. The native races of some countries are distinguished and esteemed above others for their peculiar qualities : thus the fleetest horses are found in Arabia, where they possess a spirit and courage united to docility excelling that of any others, and where they are brought up with an unexampled degi-ee of care. 6735. The Barb, the horse of Barbary, is superior to the Arabian in point of form, and is remarkable for his free and graceful action, but is rather lower, and has not quite the speed and spirit of the Arabian : he has contributed much to the excellence of the Spanish and other European horses. Several varieties, having considerable resemblance to these, are met with in Tartary, Turkistan, and Persia : but the native breeds of India and China are much inferior. It is remarkable that horses were unknown in America before its discovery by the Spaniards, and that the wild horses, so numerous in the Pampas, are merely the descendants of some that got loose and escaped from the Spanish army. 6736. In Europe the horses of Turkey are descended chiefly from the Arab crossed by the Persian and other bloods; they have contributed much to the improvement of our English breed. The German horses are, in general, large, heavy, and slow; but the Hun- garian are an exception, partaking more of eastern blood. The Dutch and Flemish horses are large, strong, and beautifully formed: we are indebted to them for some of the best blood of our draught horses. France contains, like England, numerous breeds of horses ; but they are in general inferior to ours, though much attention has lately been paid to them by importing other breeds. The best French horses are bred in Limousin and Normandy ; and from the latter district comes a strong variety, excellent for the cavalry, road, or carriage. 6737. The earliest record of the horse in Great Britain we find in the Commentaries of Julius CiEsar on his invasion of this island, in which he described the war chariots of the Britons as being drawn by nimierous horses. What was their original character is not mentioned; but probably they were subsequently somewhat changed by the introduction of Roman horses, which were themselves compounds from various countries. It appears that English horses were much esteemed even in the Anglo-Saxon times, but received a cross from those of William of Normandy. So early as the reign of Henry II. the value of the Arabian afld .Turkish horses was understood; and every successive monarch has bestowed much attention in improving the nature of an animal so useful and so great a favourite as the horse. Every variety of eastern as well as European blood of a superior kind has been engrafted on ours ; and the advantage of this method is evinced in t^e high esteem in which English horses are now held all over the Continent. 6738. Horses may be divided into draught and saddle horses. Although our object in the present work is to confine ourselves to those that are employed for what may be called domestic use, namely, saddle or riding and carriage horses, yet a short account of the various other kinds of English horses may not be irrelevant. Saddle horses may be