Book XXVL 1226 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. sucli as paralysis, when all vascular fulness of the brain has been removed. The waters of the King's Bath, at Bath, and some of the hot baths on the Continent, are beneficially employed in such cases. SuBSECT. 12. — Medicated Batlis. 7221. Medicated baths are those in which medicinal substances are added to the medium of the bath. Some of these are very eflicacious in certain diseases, but their use is very limited. Sulphurous vapour baths are found useful in several diseases affecting the skin. The nitro-muriatic bath of Scott is serviceable in chronic inflammation of the liver con- tracted in warm climates. The ferruginous baths in Nassau and the Hartz are more tonic than the simple cold water bath. Many others occur in different parts of the world, but are little known, as the mud baths of the Italians; and there are various baths of mineral waters, some of which are highly praised. Carbonic acid gas issuing from the interior of the earth has been applied to the formation of air baths at Marienberg in Germany, and found useful as a powerful sedative. But the description of these various baths, how- ever important under the direction of a skilful physician, does not come within the limits of a work treating only on domestic economy. SuBSECT. 13 Sea Bathing. 7222. Although the most important effects produced by bathing depend upon the temperature of the water, yet there can be no doubt that the effect of simple fresh water and that of the sea are very different. When the object is to produce reaction, and to stimulate and brace the system, sea-water, which is the form of cold bath in most general use in this country, is to be preferred. When a tonic effect is required, the water of the open sea is more bracing than that in a confined apartment. Of all the substitutes for the open sea, the swimming baths, such as that at Brighton, are the best; and they have this advantage, that they are accessible in every kind of weather, and at any time of the day. 7223. Tlie manner of going into the bath, and the time of remaining in it, must depend upon circumstances, chiefly on the condition of the bather. Some plunge at once, in order to have the full advantage of the shock; others, again, are recommended to take at first only one or two dips, to ascertain the power of reaction, and gradually to prolong the stay in the water. Moving the body and limbs while in the water is highly advisable, and the exercise of swimming is good, if the patient has sufficient skill and power. The body should be quickly and well rubbed and dried with a somewhat coarse towel, and the clothes put on without any unnecessary delay ; thoiigh this precaution is not so neces- sary as in bathing in fresh water, as the particles of salt that remain in the skin after evaporation stimulate it more than rubbing. A common error in the practice of sea- bathing is, that the patient remains so long in the water that the animal heat is lowered below the proper degree, and the consequence is a subsequent sense of chilliness that is injurious. 7224. It is recommended that the invalid should take sotne gentle exercise previous to going into the cold bath, with the view of rendering the circulation more vigorous, but not so much so as to induce fatigue or much perspiration. It is not proper to enter the water with the slightest sense of coldness. 7225. When the bather is in delicate health, the temperature of the water is an important consideration. In that case from 11 to 12, after breakfast, may be preferable to the early morning ; but in some parts of our southern shores sheltered by high cliffs, the sun is too powerful in the middle of the day for invalids, and then an earlier hour may be more suitable. It is often a common error, but one oftener committed by those who bathe for laxing than by invalids, that they remain so long in the water that the animal heat is lowered below, the proper degree: to boys of a feeble constitution the mischief froni this is considerable. In order to obtain the full degree of salutary reaction, immersion in the cold bath should cease just before the temperature of the body is sensibly diminished ; and a proof that this point has not been passed will be, that the glow or reaction is felt to continue. 7226. Fig. 921. is one of the hathing machines now so common at all our watermg-piaces. It consists of a small wooden house placed upon four wheels, drawn by a horse, the driver sitting in front. At the back there is a set of large semicircular hoops, having canvas stretched over them that can be lowered by means of hinges into the position represented in the cut. Within the area enclosed by this canvas, there are steps from the back of the machine, by which the bather can descend from the interior into the sea without being seen from the shore. When the machine is not in use, these hoops are drawn up, as in the machine represented in the distance. 7227. The periods of the year best adapted for sea-bathing arc the summer and autumn, when the temperature of the water on our shores varies from 5,')° to 70°. Those who have vigorous constitutions, or at least great powers of reaction, may continue to bathe in