528 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. conferva5, and otlit-r minute species of plants, grow, and which renders the water so dele- terious ; and hence the brownish-green, slimy substances so often seen in shallow ponds. 29.57. The ivnlcr of marshes is the jvorsl of all. Marshes are places where tlie stagnant ^yater is very shallow, and where the greatest quantity of plants of various kinds, and likewise numerous tribes of insects, are produced, and consequently where their dead remains are the most abundant. The putrefaction of these substances gives rise to poison- ous effluvia, whieli contaminate the air, and often occasion fatal diseases. Such water should be carefully avoided ; nor should it be employed in any way whatever for human sustenance if other water can be obtained. 2958. But the water of a pea t bog, though stagnant, is of a very different quality from that of a marsh. This, indeed, from some property in the peat itself, instead of containing putrid matter, is remarkable for resisting putrefaction; and therefore the same unhealthy gases are not disengaged from the water of a peat bog as from common marshes. This fact is of great importance, and it is observed that the vast peat bogs in Holland, Ireland, North of England, and parts of Scotland, are not at all unhealthy, but the contrary : and the same may be said of those stagnant ponds of water occasioned by the rain filling those cavities from whence peat has been cut. If the swampy surface of bog land in general, and the water contained in these ponds, were equally liable to putrefaction as marshes, the districts containing them would be uninhabitable. Sect. X. MINERAL WATERS. 2959. There are several oilier salts which occasionally occur in water ; but they are much less frequent than the sulphate and carbonate of lime which we have mentioned. '\Mien others occur they are sometimes in too minute quantity to be perceived bj' the taste, and can only be discovered by chemical tests. Occasionally, however, they exist in much greater proportion, so as to be discoverable by the palate, and then the water is said to be mineral, and is altogether unfit for most domestic purposes. Sulphate of lime and car- bonate of lime are generally found together; we rarely have one without the other. Chlorides of calcium and of magnesia give great bitterness to waters when they occur in them. They are found in the waters of the Dead Sea in Palestine, and in many mineral springs. Sulphate of magnesia, or Epsom salts, so called because first noticed in the springs at Epsom, where they still exist, is not unfrequent Sulphate of alumina is found sometimes, though rarely. 2960. When salts of iron are found in water, it forms what is called a chalyheate, and is known by its austere astringent taste. But the iron sometimes exists in smaller quantity than is sufficient to warrant the appellation of a mineral water. Iron is usually found in water in one or other of two states ; either joined to sulphuric acid, constituting sulphate of iron, or what is vulgarly called copperas ; or as bi-carbonate of iron, that is, iron joined to carbonic acid. When the iron is in the state of bi-carbonate, it deposits an ochrey sediment on being exposed to the air for some time, and still more on being boiled : but when it is a sulphate there is no sediment. 2961. Iron, in whatever mode it exists in water, may be discovered by its striking a black, or deep violet colour, with tincture of galls or any substance containing the gallic acid or tannin (tannic acid) : consequently it would be totally unfit for making tea, as it would convert it into a kind of ink ; and it stains black all wearing apparel which have been dyed with tan. Iron is far from being deleterious in small quantity in water, but in a considerable proportion becomes medicinal. The mineral springs at Tunbridge Wells contain bi-carbonate of iron, and that of Sandrock, Isle of AVight, sulphate of iron. 2962. Chalybeate waters are extremely common: the most noted in Britain are those of Tunbridge and Cheltenham ; but there are several round London, particularly at Hamp- stead, which were much resorted to formerly. 2963. Besides the earthy, alkaline, and metallic salts we have mentioned, mineral springs have considerable quantities of several gases. Sometimes there is free carbonic acid gas, and then the water has an acidulous taste. Sulphuretted hydrogen gives it a smell and taste resembling that of rotten eggs, as is the case with the Harrowgate water. 2964. Accordingly, mineral waters are divided, from their contents, into acidulous, saline, alkaline, chalybeate, and sulphureous. It would be foreign to our object to go farther into the subject of mineral waters, as they do not come into the list of beverages. Sect. XL PURIFYING WATER. 2965. As it is sometimes impossible to procure water pure and fit for domestic purposes, it is important to know by what methods it may be purified, as it is called, that is, deprived