G04 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. SuBSECT. 4. — Distinctionii in Wine which arise chiefly out of the Manufacture. 3412. Perhaps the most obvious division of wines is according to colours, as red and tvlutc : but another arrangement, generaUy received, considers them as — 1. dry and strong, as Port, Sherry, and Madeira ; 2. dry and liglU, as Hermitage, Claret, Burgundy, or Hock • 3. brisk, effervescing, and spar/ding, as Champagne ; 4. sweet, as IVIalmsey, &c.; to which we may add the Vino cotto, or boiled wines. To undei-stand well these distinctions, it is necessary that we attend to some circumstances in the manufacture which give rise to them. 3413. The colour of wine is owing to the following causes : — If the skins of the grapes or marc are entirely excluded from the fermenting vat, a white wine is always obtained, the juice of almost all grapes, black and red, as well as green, being colourless. Champagne is made from a red grape so deep in colour as to approach to black, and sherry is made from a mixture of white and coloured grapes. The colour oi red ivine is derived from permitting the wine to ferment in contact with some of the marc, the colouring matter of the grape residing altogether in the skin, with the exception of the grape called Tintilla, from which Tent wine is made, in which the juice.is coloured. This colouring principle is soluble in alcohol; therefore, when the alcohol is developed by the fermentative process, the must becomes coloured in consequence of the action of the spirit upon the marc. The wine is also more deeply coloured from a higher degree of pressure given to the husks of the* grapes. The colour of red wines varies from a light pink to a deep purple tint, approach- ing to black ; the clarets hold the intermediate rank between these two extremes ; and Dr. Henderson observes, that " on exposing red wine in bottles to the action of the sun's rays, the colouring matter is separated in large flakes, without altering the flavour of the wine. The colour derived from the skins of the grapes alone is not generally very deep ; and the high-coloured wines of France and Portugal are often rendered so by colouring in- gredients, particularly by mixture with an intensely deep red wine called vino tinto, and sometimes by elderberries and colouring drugs. Part of this colouring matter is often precipitated by long keeping in the bottle, as is the case with port; and hence one of the tests of the age of port that has been kept in the cellar is the paleness of its colour, though this is sometimes produced fraudulently. Some white wines are nearly colourless, but the greater portion have a yellow tinge ; and the pale yellow wines, when long kept, acquire more or less of a bright amber hue, and sometimes a tinge of brown. Certain wines, as those of Moldavia, have even a greenish colour. 3414. Agreeable flavours are occasionally given to wine that do not belong to the grape by means of aromatic substances, such as orris root, elder flowers, raspberries, &c. The nutty flavour of some Madeira wines is given by almonds. The ancients relished the flavour of resin or pitch in their wines — a taste which continues among the modern Greeks, but would be intolerable in this country. 3415. The distinction of dry, brisk, and sweet wines, depend upon the mode of conduct- ing the fermentation. To explain this part of our subject, we must recall to the reader's recollection a few of the leading facts respecting this process. We stated, that the formation of alcohol, which constitutes the distinctive property of every vinous fluid, was the result of the mutual action of saccharine matter and the fer- menting principle on each other; and that wine consists of a combination of this alcohol, water, a minute quantity of the essential oil of the grape constituting the peculiar aroma, and sometimes colouring and astringent matter. 3416. Dry wines are those where the saccharine matter and the ferment were so exactly balanced, that they have decomposed each other by their mutual action, and no sweetness is perceptible ; a certain quantity of sugar requiring a certain proportion of ferment for its decomposition. This is considered to be the most perfect class of wines, as the best Burgundies and ports. Such perfectly fermented wine is free from acid, and is not liable to change in any moderate length of time. 3417. Sweet wines are those where the saccharine matter was in too large quantity to be decomposed entirely by the ferment, or -H'here the process of fermentation was interrupted before its completion ; consequently some of the sugar remained unacted upon, and in a free state in solution in the wine. Of this class are the rich malmsey and Muscadine wines, as Malaga, &c. In making sweet wines, boiling the juice is sometimes resorted to, because by the heat a part of the ferment is coagulated and rendered ineffective, and therefore the whole of the grape-sugar is not decomposed during fermentation, owing to the deficiency of this principle. If the grape juice be deficient in sugai-, some cane-sugar is added ; or, what is better, starch-sugar, which is the same as that of the grape. 3418. Brisk or effervescing wines have had the fermentation checked before it was completed, the wine being transferred into bottles before the whole of the carbonic acid had separated, a portion of which being formed by the continuance of fermentation in the bottle is there absorbed by the wine, and retained in a condensed state; tliis, when freed