803 Chap. IV. PRESERVATION OF FOOD AND VEGETABLES. accident is almost unavoidable if the quantity be large, and the fire applied, as is often the case, immediately under the pan : but it may be entirely avoided by putting the pulpy mass, -when thickened to the consistence of a syrup, in shallow earthen pans, and placing them in an oven with its door open, moderately heated: in this manner the heat will be applied equally to every part. A still better plan, but more tedious, is to place the vessel containing the pulp in another vessel containing boiling water, which is called the water bath. The application of steam, by means of what is called the steam preserving pan, is the best contrivance for making marmalades, jams, and all other culinary preparations ■which are liable to become injured by a degree of heat exceeding that of boiling water. See Woodcuts in " Furniture," Book V. 4603. Orange marmalade.—Scoop out the pulp of Seville oranges into a hair sieve, beat it, and press the juice through into a pan below : boil the skins in water in the pre- serving pan till they are tender; then take out the white part, and cut them into small strips: add this to the juice, and to each pound of the fruit add a pound of clarified sugar, and boil the whole for about half an hour to the degree called the feather. Take it ofiF, stir and mix it well, and boil again tiU it hangs to the spoon, being the degree called the crack. Take care not to boil it too much, but watch it carefully, as the proper con- sistence is important. When right, pour it into pots; cover them with paper dipped in brandy, and tie a bladder over it Common oranges are not equal to the Seville, but they will make very good marmalade. If the sugar is broken in pieces and boiled with the fruit, without being first clarified, it will do ; but then it must be well skimmed as it boils. Marmalade should be made between February and the end of March, as the Seville oranges are then in their best state. 4Gftl. Scotch orartge-chip marmalade, according to Meg Dods Take equal weight of fine loaf sugar and Seville oranges ; wipe and grate the oranges, but not too much. (The outer grate boiled up with sugar will make an excellent conserve for rice, custard, or baiter puddings.) Cut the oranges the cross way, and squeeze out the juice through a small sieve; scrape off the pulp from the inner skins, and pick out the seeds ; boil the skins till perfectly tender, changing the water to take off part of the bitter. When cool, scrape the coarse, white, thready part from the skins, and, trussing three or four skins together for dispatch, cut them into narrow chips; clarity the sugar, and put the chips, pulp, and juice to it: add, when boiled for ten minutes, the juice and grate of two lemons to every dozen of oranges. Skim and boil for twenty minutes ; pot, and cover when cold. 4605. Quince marmalade. — Boil some ripe quinces in a small quantity of water till they are tender; pare the skins off, cut them into quarters, and take out the cores ; stew the parings and cores in some water; strain this, and add the water to the quartered quinces. Put the whole into a preserving pan, with as much sugar as the weight of the quinces. Boil this till it is of the proper consistence for a marmalade, bruising it with a wooden spatula. 460U. A mnrmaliide may be made in the same manner by using pears, apricots, peaches, pine-apples, or any other fruit of a pulpy nature. 4607. Jams require the same care and attention in the boiling as marmalade; the slightest degree of burning communicates a disagreeable empyreumatic taste, and if they are not boiled sufficiently they will not keep. That they may keep, it is necessary not to be sparing of sugar. 4608. Raspberry jam. — Pick a sufficient quantity of fresh ripe raspberries, gathered on a dry day ; mash them, and pass them through a wicker sieve ; to one pint of the pulp add a pound of loaf sugar, pounded or broken small: put the whole into a preserving pan over a clear fire. When it begins to boil, skim it well, and stir it for half an hour, taking great cire not to let it burn. When done, put it into small pots, cut some pieces of paper round to the size of the pot; dip them in brandy, and lay them on the jam : also tie anotlier paper over the pot. Some add a little red currant juice to the raspberries; but tliis will demand some more sugar: others add a little honey to make it richer. 4609. Strawberry jam and burberry jam are made in the same manner. The sugar used may first be clarified: add one-sixth of currant juice. 4610. White gooseberry jam This is a homely preparation, but very useful where there are children. It is m.ide as tne last, only the gooseberries, which should be quite ripe, must be well boiled, until they begin to break. Each pound of fruit requires a pound of sugar : iind the gentle boiling must be continued till the jam is of the right consistence. Red gooseberry jam is made in tlie same way. 4611. Currant ja?n m.iy be made the same way. The months when jams and jellies are usually inade are June and July. They should be examined in August to see if there be any tendency to fermentation, or any mouldiness; if so, they must be rcboiled anil prepared over again. In warm seasons this is very liable to happen. 4612. To preserve damsons for pies T.ike equal weight of fruit and clarified sugar. If any of the damsons are broken, boil them first some time in the sugar ; then add the whole quantity of fruit, and boll till it jellies: pot, and tie paper over. But the best mode is Appert's, given already, p. 796. 4613. Fruil jellies These are compounds of the juices of fruits combined with sugar, concentrated by boiling to such a consistence that the liquid, upon cooling, assumes the form of a tremulous jelly. Vegetable jelly is a distinct principle e.xisting in fruits, which pos.sesses the property of gelatinising when boiled and cooled: but it is a principle entirely different from the gelatine of animal bodies, although the name of jelly, common to both, sometimes leads to an erroneous idea on that subject. Animal jelly, or gelatine, is glue; whereas vegetable jelly is rather analogous to gum, though ditt'erent from it, and not nearly so nutritious as animal jelly or gelatine. (Sec Book VII. Chap. VII. Sect. IX.)- In preparing vegetable jellies, it is necessary to guard against boiling them too long, since this destroys their property of gelatinising, and they then a.ssume the appearance of mucilage or gum; and this accident is most likely to occur when the quantity of sugar is too small to absorb the water of the juice. Jellies are most perfect