BREWING. Chap. III. 591 icating quality has been attributed to cocculus indicus; but of the truth of this assertion we have no positive knowledge. 3334. Scotch ale.—The Scotch, particularly the Edinburgh ales of the present day, made partly on the old plan, are esteemed equal, if not superior, to any in Britain ; and certainly some of the best Scotch ales have a flavour extremely vinous, and approaching the nearest of any of our ales to some of the light French wines. They are particularly mild in their flavour and pale in colour, and the taste of the hop does not predominate. One great advantage which they derive fi-om the smallness of the quantity of the hops which they contain is, that it does not form a disguise for injurious ingredients, as is the case with the larger proportion used in English ales; and hence, if no better reasons could be assigned, it is said that the Scotch ales are less liable to adulteration than those of England. But, on the other hand, they are more difficult to keep long; and the fine Scotch ales are therefore generally bottled. The principal difference between the manner of brewing Scotch and English ale is, that the former is fermented with a much lower heat than the latter, usually as low as 50°: this fermentation is slow ; it continues for a fortnight or even three weeks. The fermentation is carried nearly as far as possible in the fermenting vat, and hence it soon becomes fine, and is then put into casks, and is seldom racked. 3335. It appears to have been the ancient practice in Scotland, as it is stiU in some places on the Continent, to put the new fermented ale quite hot into casks, where the fermentation was carried on slowly, the bung-holes being left open, or loosely stopped with covers of clay. The ale was then sent out in this fermenting state to the customers in casks or in flagons ; but it was afterwards always bottled, whether strong or weak, and was generally ready in the course of a week. The low degree of temperature at which the fermentation is carried on confines the brewing to the colder parts of the year; and during four or five of the summer months no strong ale is brewed. The ale of Preston Pans is the finest and most vinous of the Scotch ales. 3336. In Edinburgh, Dr. Thomson informs us, it was the custom formerly for the brewers to " send out the small beer in casks the moment it was mixed with yeast, and before it had undergone any fermentation whatever." It fermented sufficiently in the small casks in which it was sent to the customers, who generally bottled it, which made it clear and very brisk, and extremely agreeable. 3337. Welsh ale. — Mr. Donovan informs us that there is nothing peculiar in the process of making the excellent ale of that country. They brew rather small quantities at a time, use good malt and hops, spare neither, and take but one extract from the malt. 3338. Windsor ale. — It is said that this contains a considerable quantity of honey and liquorice, which gives it'additional strength. The honey is put in just before the liquor is run off into the coolers. 3339. India pale ale. — This ale was first prepared for the India market, but has lately come info general use here. To make it keep in a warm climate it has more than the usual quantity of hops, and is, of course, much more bitter than the ordinary ales. It has been recommended by some physicians as being proper for certain invalids with whom the usual ale does not agree. It is said that some brewers, in preparing it, merely add an infusion of hops to some of their already brewed ales. 3340. Table ale and table beer are weak ales, and in domestic brewing are generally the result of the second and third mashings: strength is not so much required as the right proportion of bitter, and perfect soundness and transparency. They are very wholesome beverages when in their sound state, and, when bottled, are excellent. In London professional brewers who brew ale and table beer are distinct from those who brew porter, and some brewers confine themselves to the manufacture of table beer only. They make this malt liquor from the best pale malt, or amber and pale malt. They usually draw six barrels of beer from one quarter of malt. The quantity of hops is from four to five pounds per quarter of malt. Being sent out in small casks, by proper management, It may be drunk fresh and in good condition ; it is not calculated for Iflbg keeping. SuBSECT. 4 Some Account of the Beer made on the Continent. 3341. It may be interesting to state a few particulars respecting the kinds of malt liquor made by our Continental neighbours, who differ from us somewhat in their taste on this subject. 3342. TTie beer commonly drunk in Paris is very different from any generally used in London. The French, accustomed to light wines, make their beer upon a somewhat similar principle. They wish rather for a refreshing than an intoxicating beverage ; and their beer is admirably adapted to the purpose for which it is intended—a cheap refresh- ment at the theatre or promenade. It contains but little alcohol, and is more remarkable for its briskness than strength: being bottled when new, it ferments in the bottle ; a great quantity of carbonic acid is generated there, which, when the cork is drawn, flies out with great violence like our spruce beer. Good table beer, bottled with a little sugar, comes pretty near to it. In many parts of the Continent they prefer this light beer.