ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 194 Book V. 878. Thii chilling of birds is of two lands —down, and common feathers; the former are placed under the common feathers; and some birds, when very young, as the goose, have no other covering. The down is designed to defend the bird against cold and wet; hence it is so abundant upon the lower surface of those which frequent the water, and it is most plentiful in those which inhabit only the coldest regions of the north. The common feathers are thickest upon the shoulders and loins, along the under part of the neck and breast. 879. The large feathers, or quills, situated upon the wings and tail, should rather be considered as instruments of motion than as mere covering; thus we find them strongi and unyielding in those birds that have heavy bodies; as the swan, goose, turkey, &c.,J while they are wanting in those which do not fly ; as the ostrich, &c. There are otherl long feathers that differ from the quills and common feathers with respect to their struc-I ture and position. Of these we may mention those of the crest of the peacock, and somel of the crane kind; also some of the feathers of the birds of paradise, wluch seem designed* . for ornament alone. The feather may be considered as divided into the tube or barrel, a, fig. 159., and the shaft b. The tube penetrates the skin, and constitutes the root of the feather; it is hollow, semi- transparent, and homy, and contains a thin vascular substance that, when dry, forms that well-known jointed membranous body which we take out of the barrel of the quill when we make a pen. The shaft is elastic, and is quite filled with a very light dry pith. Two sides of the shaft are covered with the barbs, running in a direction from the barrel; and each barb is covered on the edges with smaller ones, or barbules, by which they are in some measure bound together, and preserve the bird from being wet. Upon the size, colour, and form of the barbs, the character and appearance of each kind of feather chiefly depends. In the down of aU birds the shafts are exceedingly fine and delicate, and often imperceptible : the barbs are long, distinct, and floating; the barbules being long, loose, and silky. 880. The feathers of all the birds employed as food are used for some purpose or other; but they are not all equally fit for furniture: and feathers are likewise of various qualities, according to the parts of the bird from which they are taken. AU feathers are more or less imbued with an oily matter secreted by the living animal, for the purpose of defend- ing it more completely from rain and water, from which they must be freed before they are fit to use in furniture. 881. Goose feathers are the best for beds, and are generally employed, being the most elastic. They are usually sorted into white and grey; the latter are cheapest by six- pence a pound, but are equally good for beds as the white. The best goose feathers come from Dantzic and Hamburg: they bear the highest price, and are most esteemed for their strength and elasticity. Of our feathers, those of Somer- setshire are reckoned the best; and the Irish are generally the worst. Irish feathers, it is said, are sometimes adulterated with lime to increase the weight: a small quantity of lime is often sprinkled among the feathers, in order that, by combining with the oil, it may prevent it from turning rancid and injuring them: but the Irish peasantry put a greater quantity than is necessary. It has been stated that, in some parts of Britain, as in Lincolnshire, geese are plncked five times in the year; the first time, at Lady Day, for feathers and quills; and four times more, for feathers only, between that time and Michaelmas. In cold seasons many geese die by this barbarous custom. In Lancashire they are plucked twice. When killed, each goose yields about a pound and a half of feathers. 882. Poidtry feathers, as those of the turkey, ducks, and fowls, are soft, but not so elastic as those of the goose. It is difficult to deprive duck's feathers of the odour of the oil which they contain in abundance, and which, if not removed, is highly pernicious, collecting small insects that destroy the feathers. 883. Down is furnished by the goose, and more particularly by the swan, of which a good deal comes from Dantzic : but the finest down is from the eider duck, imported into this country from Denmark, and brought from Greenland, Iceland, and Norway. It is used only as a covering to beds, and never should be slept upon, as it thereby loses its elasticity. 884. Feathers or down intended for use slioidd be plucked as soon as possible after the bird is dead, and before it is cold ; othei-wise they are defective in that elasticity which is their most valuable property, and are liable to decay. The bird should, besides, be in good health, and not moulting, for the feathers to be" in perfection ; and when plucked, and a sufficient number collected, the sooner they are dried upon the oven the better, since otherwise they arc apt to heat and stick together. 885. FeatJiers are prepared for beds by respectable manufacturers in the following manner. First, all the tail andsinall-wing feathers are picked out: of these there is generally a considerable quantity, and, if suffered to remain, they will injure the softness and elas-