1237 Chap. IV. INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. are serviceable, and if medical aid cannot be procured for some time, leeches may be ap- plied, and the bleeding promoted by -warm bread poultices. Leeches should not be applied on the bowels of children, unless a medical man be by, for it is extremely diflScult to arrest the bleeding. One plan that -will often succeed is to wipe the blood clean off, and then at once to sprinkle into the little orifices a small quantity of flour; this mixes with the blood, and often stops its flow. Plaster of Paris may be used in the same way, and is still more efBcacious. 7269. Liflammation of the eyes. — Inflammation may exist in various parts in the eye. At present we wish merely to describe the inflammation of the external superficial coats; In adults, inflammation always attracts notice ; there is heat and running from the eyes, pain, and a feeling as if sand or some gritty substance were lodged in them ; they become reddened, or what is popularly called blood-shot; the eye-lids adhere to each other in the morning. Warm milk and water applications, and leeches, may be applied on the lids, and at the external part of the eye. Medical directions should be strictly attended to. In children inflammation of eyes is often very violent: it may occur a few days after birth ; there is a yellow discharge from the eyes; the eye-lids are swelled, and stick together; the light hurts the eyes, which are with difiiculty opened ; when opened, they are seen to be very red. Certain local applications become necessary, and are applied by the surgeon ; the eyes also should be assiduously bathed with tepid water, to which some goulard lotion may be added. 7270. Scrofulous inflammation of eyes.—The eyes in this case are little reddened, but have a great aversion to the light; the child almost constantly keeps them closed, and the eye- lids are spasmodically contracted when they are attempted to be separated. A discharge, often thin and watery, oozes from the eyes, and the eye-lids adhere together in the morn- ing. Certain local applications are always applied by the surgeon; the health should be carefully attended to; good and nutrient food plentifully given, and change of air, sea bathing, and tonics are often of essential service. The child should be prevented rubbing the eyes, and in the morning they should be gently bathed with tepid water, or milk and water, before opening them. When examined, the eyes must be turned away from the light. SuBSECT. 5. — Apoplexy. 7271. A person is said to be in an apoplectic fit when he falls down suddenly, and lies on the ground without moving, breathing deeply, and in a peculiar manner, drawing in the cheeks, and then suddenly puffing out the cheeks and lips : when examined, the eyes are seen to be staring ; the pupil much enlarged ; the face is often swollen, red, and turgid; the pulse is full, strong, and often slow, and, as it is termed, labouring. If such an attack occurs in a man of matured manhood, of a full body, and accustomed to live well, and particularly if it occurs two or three hours after a meal, the probability of its being apoplexy is very much strengthened. In such an attack, a medical man must in- stantly be sent for; and all that can be done till he arrive is to loosen the neckcloth, and raise the head. It is often directed that vomiting be induced by putting the fingers into the throat ; this direction, however, is incorrect, for not only is the strain caused by the vomiting likely still more to increase the mischief going on within the head, but as the attack occurs generally, not immediately after a full meal, but two or three hours after, when an increased quantity of circulating fluid is added to the blood, such vomiting will not dislodge anything from the stomach, and cannot possibly be of the slightest service. After an attack of apoplexy, when palsy has not resulted, the diet should be carefully attended to; often vegetables alone must be taken ; animal food and fermented liquors are inadmissible ; the bowels must be regulated by medicines ; gentle exercise assiduously taken, and all sudden exertions or movements, or severe mental excitement, cautiously avoided. There are many symptoms which sometimes point out the approach of apo- plexy, as giddiness, great drowsiness, loss of sight or hearing, failure of memory, loss of muscular power, or twitchings of muscles, &c. When any or all of these occur, medical aid should be immediately sought for. SuBSECT. 6 Palsy. 7272. This may remain after an attack of apoplexy, or may occur per se suddenly, when it is called a stroke of palsy, or gradually, when it is termed creeping palsy. When we treat of the sick room management, we shall take an opportunity of describ- ing more fully the domestic management of this disease. SuBSECT. 7.—Epilepsy. 7273. An epileptic fit, when once seen, is not likely to be forgotten. A person suddenly titters a loud and piercing scream, and then stands fixed and rigid, with every muscle in 4 K 3