299 EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY. Chap. XV. articles are made of it, as fancy baskets, door handles, finger plates, candlesticks, ink and taper stands, &c. . \3-20. Gihiiiiy on porcelain or glass is performed by applying the gold in a metallic state, cither as leaf gold, or in the state of a powder. It is made to adhere to the surface of the ware, either by exposing it to such a degree of heat as to cause an incipient fusion of the glaze on which it is laid, or by mixing with the gold some substance as a flux, the melting of which occasions its adherence. The powder of gold is sometunes made mechanically, by grinding gold leaf with honey, which is afterwards washed away ; or it may be made by precipitating gold from its solution in aqua regia. This powder is then diluted with gum-water, either with or without a fluxing material, and the ware is exposed to the necessary heat in the oven. After the gold has been burnt in, it is burnished with agates, an operation which is usually, in manufactories, performed by female hands. There is a great difterence in the gilding of porcelain : some of the cheap kind sold is gilt in a very imperfect manner, by putting on the gold with japanners' gold size, and exposing it to heat: but this kind of gilding soon comes off by washing in hot water, whereas -what is properly burnt in never wears off. 1321. Painting on porcelain is known as an occupation for ladies who draw or paint on paper ; and proprietors of potteries are accustomed to supply vases and other ornamental objects, in the state of biscuit, to such as wish to exercise their taste and ingenuity in embellishing them by painting and gilding. The pieces being then returned to the manufacturer, the glaze is applied, the baking is finished in the glass oven, and the gilding is burnished. SuBSECT. 3. — Porcelain of various Countries. 1322. Tlie chief excellence of Chinese porcelain is the perfection of the ware itself, and its great infusibility and lightness. With respect to the painting, though the colours are often bright, yet the drawing is generally very rude. Among this extraordinary people, the arts of design appear scarcely to have advanced far beyond their infant state ; and it is remarkable, that, with so much practice, the knowledge of drawing seems to have remained nearly stationary for ages. It is said that the Chinese themselves consider that the porcelain ware made by their ancestors was superior in quality to any more recently ma- nufactured, although this is doubted by some. For manj' ages tliey used only white porce- lain ; and the white colour was extremely brilliant. A very rich and deep blue was the first colour they employed, which, some say, was made fi-om lapis lazuli; others think it was from cobalt. The fine blue porcelain ware of China is highly valued by the curious: but now, it is said, they prepare this colom* from English smalt, though inferior. There are also many other colours made from iron and copper. Black porcelain, ornamented with gold, known under the name of uniam, is much esteemed in the East. The principal por- celain manufactures are carried on at King-te-ching, in the province of Kiang-si, where they have been established for ages. It is said that there are 500 factories, employing a million of hands ; these are walled round, and no strangers can have access to the works, so that, in fact, little is known respecting the details of their processes. It is stated that they keep their clay for a number of years before it is used; and that they will lay up a stock of it early in life for the use of their sons. Very large vases, and other pieces of great magnitude are made by them ; but the emperor monopolizes the finest specimens; and the best kinds, even in that country, are scarce, and fetch high prices. Porcelain is also made at Nankin, and a few other places in China, but it is thought to be inferior to that of King-te-Ching. The Chinese evidently excel in the use of the potter's wheel, as may be seen by the extreme thinness of some of their cups and saucers ; and the principle of the division of labour is by them carried to such an extent that a great many persons are employed on one tea-cup, each workman performing one operation, in which; by constant repetition, he becomes extremely expert. It appears that the processes of the Chinese differ in several respects from ours. Their material is so infusible that they can apply a glaze which requires a much higher degree of heat to vitrify than any of our European porcelains, and which is much harder and less liable to crack, In our modern porcelain, in general, the body of the ware being more fusible than the Chinese, we cannot easily apply a sufiicient degree of heat to fuse a glaze, except it contain some lead or alkali, because the heat required would melt the body of the ware. But we have stated that the use of lead is prejudicial to health, and the employment of alkali causes the glaze to come into innumerable cracks. Hence, not only our porcelain itself, but likewise the glaze, are usually inferior to the best Chinese. It is said also that their ware is merely dried in the air before glazing, as their composition so effectually resists water that it can be immersed in an aqueous glaze, without being first made into biscuit, and, consequently, they are enabled to burn their porcelain by a single firing. Tlie glaze of ('hinese porcelain is so hard that it cannot be operated upon by any of our common instruments, whereas our glazes become scratched and defaced by ordinary wear.