Chap. ill. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 787 be had at Billingsgate in London; but great care must be employed in getting them genuine. A}i imitation of the Finnan haddock is commonly made by salting them for a few hours, splitting and wetting the fish with pyroligneous acid, and hanging them to dry. 4500. Buccaning vieat is a mode of preserving it practised in some parts of the West Indies, and which was employed by the Caribs before their conquest by the Europeans. A number of hunters and pirates existing in the West Indies about 1630 received the name of " Buccaneers" from their practising this mode of preserving meat. The flesh was cut into pieces of the length of the arm and salted. Next day, the pieces were laid upon a grating or hurdle made of sticlis, called a buccan, and placed at some height above the ground. A fire of wood was then made below, and a thick smoke produced ; the meat w.is thus partly roasted, partly dried, and also smoked. Large quantities used to be cured in this manner by the hunters, and the meat is said to have a particularly agreeable flavour. Sect. W. preservation of anisiax food by vinegar. 4501. The antiseptic property of vinegar hdiS been long known; but the acid nature of vinegar renders it improper for the preservation of food in general, and it is only em- ployed, combined with salt and spices, in some substances that may be considered among the luxuries rather than the necessaries of life. It is not used for preserving any kind of butchers' meat; and only a few kinds of fish are preserved by it. Its chief employment is in pickling certain fruits, roots, and leaves of vegetables employed as condiments to improve the relish of several kinds of food. 4502. The principle by which acids preserve animal and vegetable substances is the property which they have of coagulating the albumen of the vegetable or animal sub- stance, this principle being peculiarly susceptible of putrefaction. 4503. Salmon is pickled with vinegar in the following manner : — The fish ought to be perfectly fresh and in good condition. It must be cut into pieces of convenient size, but the scales are not to be taken off. Make a strong brine, and boil the fish in just so much as will cover it, with some whole pepper and allspice, but take care not to over-boil. When sufiiciently done, lay the fish on a slope to drain off the supei-fluous liquor. When quite cold, pack it up close in kitts, a kind of small shallow casks, and pour over them some of the brine, together with some good vinegar ; let this stand for a day ; and then, to make them lie close, strike the sides of the kitt with a mallet, and pack them down as close as possible; then head the kitts. Some boil in the liquor bay leaves, fennel, and tarragon. The kitts should not be opened till wanted for use ; the fish will keep after that about a fortnight. The goodness of pickled salmon is known by the brightness of the scales, and their adhering fast to the skin, the firmness of the flesh, and its fine rose colour. If stale, or beginning to spoil, it is extremely unwholesome, and altogether unfit for food. 4.104. To 7rtnke caveach^ or pickled mackerel. — Take the heads off the fisii, open them, and take out the inside, preserving the roes and livers ; then divide the fish into quarters. Prepare a seasoning by mixing together a quarter of a pound of salt with tv;o ounces of pepper, half a drachm of mace, a drachm of allspice, and some nutmeg grated ; rub well this into the fish, and then fry them of a fine brown with olive oil; drain them dry on a hair sieve, and then put them close into a stone jar, which must be filled up with vinegar ; put a little olive oil on the top, and secure the whole with bladder. Mackerel may also be pickled in the same way .19 sjilmon. 'I.'j05. To pickle oi/slers. — Put the oysters into a stew-pan, witli their liquor, over the fire; do not let them boil, but take them off when tliey are white and firm ; remove llie beards ; strain the liquor, and put it with twice its quantity of good vinegar into a stone jar ; to this may be added some mushroom ketchup, some hay leaves, tarr.igon, and shallots. Stew the whole in an oven for three hours ; when cold, put tliem into a jar, strewing in with them a little pounded sugar, some pepper-corns, allspice, and bay leaves. Fill up the jar with vinegar, and cork and secure it with bladder. 't.'iOG. Mussels and cockles may be pickled in the same manner, and the spices may be varied according to taste. Sect. VII. M. appert's method of preserving food. 4507. A work was published in Paris in 1810 hy M. Appcrt, intitled " The Art of pre- serving all kinds of Animal and Vegetable Substances." The methods employed by the author for this purpose had been in some degree anticipated by Mr. Boyle many years ago, and have to a certain extent even been practised by our housewives in this country, at least with respect to vegetables ; yet M. Appcrt does not appear to have been acquainted with any of the former experiments, which had never been followed out and reduced to practical rules : he is therefore entitled to the merit of the invention, which has proved of great utility, and has afforded the most complete mode of preserving meat in the best condition, which has been of late eminently usefiil in long voyages by sea. 4508. M. Apjiert received a reward of 12,000 francs from the I'Vench government, and he observes, " That before that time two principal methods had been employed for preserv- ing food; that of drying, and that of mingling, in greater or less quantities, some other substance for the purpose of impeding fermentation or putrefaction. IJy the first of these 3 E ->