P p 2 Fig, 659. For the character of good malt we refer the reader to what has been said on the subject 1 Section V. It is best to buy it unground and to grind it at home, as then it will be ertain not to be adulterated. It is cheapest in the end to purchase the best malt; for, 3tting aside the risk of having the brewing fail through bad materials, the quality of the eer will be of more consequence than any saving in the malt. 3266. The quantity of malt must, of course, be proportioned to the strength of the beer equired to be made. The average strength is such that a bushel of malt will give shelve gallons : and this may be taken as the most useful proportion in general, and the one enerally employed in domestic brewing, for common ale not intended for long keeping. Brewers reckon that one measure of ordinary ale is equal to two of table beer: there- jre from one bushel of malt may be brewed twenty-four gallons of table beer, supposing o ale to be made ; or nine gallons of ale, and six of table beer, or six gallons of ale, and irelve of table beer, or any other proportion of these two kinds of beer, so that haJf the umber expressing the table beer added to that expressing the ale shall make twelve ullons. In private families, strong ale is sometimes made, as much as a bushel and a half to welve gallons. If ale be intended for long keeping, it will be requisite to allow more han a bushel of malt to twelve gallons. If weaker ale be thought sufficient, less malt, 'crhaps three quarters of a bushel, may do. Taking these proportions as standards, every •ne may choose that proportion which best suits their taste and their means. In private irewing, the table beer is generally made from the malt after the ale has been extracted rem it. 3267. It is to be understood that the malt is to he measured before it is ground, because a lushel of malt produces, when coarsely ground, one bushel and a quarter of grist, and vhen ground fine, the increase of bulk is more considerable. If the malt be purchased in :. ground state, allowance must be made accordingly 3268. Hops.—The same observations which were made on malt will also-apply to this ngredient. The best is the cheapest. 3269. With respect to the quantity of hops, this must depend upon several circumstances .