90 Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. and feelings, as well as otlier circumstances. General principles only can be stated. A thermometer is necessary to regulate the temperature where accuracy is required. In man, the natural animal heat, in a state of health, is about 98° of Fahrenheit, whether in the tropical or polar regions : and we have stated that this natural temperature is main- tamed by the function of respiration, checked by the cooling effect of perspiration. Clothing prevents the undue escape of this animal heat; but, as that protection is not perfect, it is necessary to regulate the temperature of the surrounding air within doors. It is stated by medical writers to " be a good rule for persons in England to clothe themselves in winter so as to be comfortable in a room at a temperature of 60° or 62°, and to let that be the steady temperature of their common apartments, which it could then never be dangerous either to enter or to leave." Rooms in England, where the thermometer is seldom kept, are often heated up to 70°, or so low as 50°. Accustoming ourselves to too great warmth in-doors relaxes the system, and renders it more sensible of the cold out of doors, as also of those changes to which our climate is liable. We become somewhat in the condition of hot-house plants, instead of such as gi-ow in the open garden. But though a certain approach to an equality of temperature be very desirable, we are not friends to persons in health having too great solicitude respecting it: there being no -possibility of avoiding variations of heat and cold, it is better to accustom ourselves somewhat to changes of temperature. With respect to invalids, the case is dilFerent. When a stair- case is warmed, the air to be admitted into the rooms may be kept at 56°, and not above that. A somewhat warmer temperature is proper for a sitting room than for a bed room. Sect. IX. ON SMOKE. 386. We have described smoke as an extremely fine dust, composed of unconsumcd fuel that is carried up by the heated air; and, as the air is invisible, it is usually, by unscientific persons, confounded with the smoke itself. The cause of the ascent of the heated air carrying the smoke with it, is its lightness, from being rarified by the heat. The more the air is heated, the more it is rarefied, and of course the greater will be its power of ascent. Though smoke in the open air ascends at first, it soon difFuses itself on every side, and, when it cools, its particles fall down; in a flue it is confined, and will have a force of ascent in proportion to the height of the flue and size of the fire. •387. It is not uncommon for sjiort fines to draw badly, as it is called ; that is, to have little power of ascent: the remedy for this is to heighten the flue, if this be practicable. 388. Flues ought to be constructed with great care, and by an experienced bricklayer, although few things so important in a building are more carelessly executed; which is the- more lamentable, since their defects can seldom be remedied, and are sometimes veiy difficult even to be ascertained. 389. Tlie most frequent cause of smoky chimneys is the width of their throats: when that is the case, contracting the throat will remedy the evil. 390. There can be no good reason why any chimney in a new building, constructed by an architect who understands the principles of his profession, ought to smoke, except, indeed, there should happen to be in the vicinity some buildings still higher, fom which, when the wind blows in a certain quarter, it may be reflected and beaten down the flue; or where there are high rocks, hills, or other objects that may have a similar effect. 391. Since the cases must vary with every locality, no specific rules can be given for the guidance of the chimney doctor, generally a quack, who promises to cure every smoky chimney with his infallible nostrum: and we can only recommend the bricklayer and architect (whose province this should be) to study the scientific principles upon which chimneys should be constructed, without which they must always be in the condition of persons groping in the dark. When it is supposed that the cause of smoke is the beating down of air from the top from any higher adjoining buildings, or other objects, a common remedy is adding to the top of the chimney-pot a cowl or lurncap, which, by turning round with the wind, gives a shelter to the smoke that issues: of these there arc an almost infinite variety of forms, made of sheet iron painted, or of zinc: some of the latter appear to answer very well, particularly Day's patent windguard. Chimney-pots likewise, of several forms, are made with the same view. 392. It will sometimes happen that smoke comes down a chmney when there ts no fire in the room. This is generally occasioned by a current of air setting down the flue, and thus drawing the smoke from a neighbouring one. This must be corrected by some contriv- ance at the top. I 1 • J 393. When neither contracting the throat, nor putting on a tumcap will tiave the desired effect, the .cure of the smoky chimney will probably prove difficult: one method we have seen described as " infallible;" this is to have a grate made so that all the front opening