Chap. I. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 907 in a pan of cold water for a few hours, and whenever it is possible, the pastry should be made early in the day; the less the hand touches the pastry the better. The flour and water may be mixed together with a wooden pestle, the butter laid on with a knife, and the whole' completely united by the use of the rolling-pin. In making pastry, a propor- tion is always observed between the quantity of butter to be incorporated with the flour and the number of times the paste is to be folded up and rolled out. Thus, if half a pound of butter to a poimd of flour is the proportion, the paste is made up into three folds, and rolled out three times, or turns, as the cook calls it; if three quarters of a pound of butter is used to one of flour, the paste must have five turns, that is, folded in three, and rolled out five times. A pound of butter to a pound of flour will require five and a half or six turns. By half a turn, the doubling the paste, and not folding it in three, is un- derstood. In all pastry very little liquid should be used in mixing the ingredients to- gether ; no more than just to form them into a smooth paste. 5^21. Receipt for a rich meal pie crust. — Make a pound of well-dried flour into a stiff but smooth paste, with very weak salt and water ; roll it out on the marble slab or paste board; take a pound of butter, and lay with a knife a portion of it in patches on the sur- face of the paste ; roll it in three folds, and roll it out again ; lay on another portion of the butter, and proceed in the same manner for five times ; the butter being thus incor- porated with the flour, the paste requires nothing more than to be rolled out the thickness reqiured for the pie. Roll out and put a small piece of the paste in the oven, which, if sufficiently heated, will soon show its thickness, and serve as a test for the rest. When once put into the oven, the door must be closed until the pastry has risen ; cold air ad- mitted to the oven while the pastry is rising would cause it to fall and become heavy. .5222. Plain ?iical pie crust The proportion: half a pound of butter or beef suet, or dripping, to a pound of Hour; the turns, three. .5223. A short pie crust. — Rub half a pound of butter into a pound of dried flour, and add a tea-spoonful of finely pounded sugar. Mix the paste smooth with water, and give it three turns. The suet or dripping crust answers for the servants' table, or for that of a family in which economy is an object. A dripping crust requires great care in baking ; if the oven is too hot, and it is at all burnt, the crust is then neither agreeable nor wholesome. 5224. Crust for venison pasty. — The crust fur venison pasty is sometimes made like other meat pie crust, the proportion being three quarters of a pound of butter to a pound of flour, half rubbed in, the rest laid on ; five and a half turns allowed. Another receipt allows only half a pound of butter to a pound of flour, the paste being formed before the butter is incorporated with it, with the yolks and whites of three eggs well beaten. K these are insufficient to mix it smooth, a little weak salt and water may be added. The dish in which a venison pasty is to be baked must be lined with paste on the sides, but not at the bottom. The lid of the pasty should be thicker than that usually covering a meat pie, in order to stand a long continuance in the oven. 5225. Standing crust for Yorkshire pies Take a peck of flour and six pounds of butter ; boil the butter in a gallon of water, and as it dissolves skim it off from the surface, taking with it as little of the water as possible ; work it well into the flour, until a smooth paste is formed, and when cold make it up in the usual form. 522(i. Potato crust Pound some boiled potatoes very smooth, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mass hold together j if not butter, the yolk of an egg will do as well. Then roll on the board this p.aste to a proper thickness, and put it on the dish while warm ; if cold, it will crack. It makes it richer to put both egg and butter into the crust. 5227. Puff paste for patties, vol-au-vents, Sfc.—Puff paste for any composition requiring a deep border is rarely well made. It depends upon a nice attention to the rolling of the pastry; the number of times which it is folded and rolled out is regulated by French cooks according to the proportion of the flour and butter. Thus to three quarters of a pound of butter to one poimd of flour they allow five turns, that is, the paste must be folded in three, and rolled out five times. A pound of flour and a pound of butter takes five and a half or six turns. When the paste is only doubled, not folded in three, it is called half a turn. Now take a pound of well-dried flour, separating from it as much of it as may be wanted for working the paste ; weigh and wash a pound of butter, and put a small piece of it into the flour; take a quarter of an ounce of salt, dissolve it in cold water, and mix the flour with it to a smooth paste. Kthe butter is soft, put it into a dish, and set it in a pan of cold water, until it is of a consistency equal to that of the paste. Dust the board with some of the reserved flour, and spread out the paste as square as possible. Mould the butter also into a scjuare, with a floured cloth ; lay it in the middle of the paste, and fold the paste over it, so as to cover it entirely ; dust it with flour, and roll it out gently, taking care that the butter does not break through the paste, which if too hard it will be apt to do. When the paste is rolled out to its utmost extent, fold it up in three, dust it and the table with flour, and roll it out again; this is called two turns. Dust it with flour, and let it lie untouched for a quarter of an hour, after which give it two more turns; then let it lie another quarter of an hour or ten minutes, and roll it out again for the fiftii and last time, unless, as before mentioned, the proportion of butter to flour is greater than here directed, in which case it will require half or a tuni more. The last rolling must extend the paste to the proper thickness, as it cannot be rolled out