ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. piece of iron hoop fixed across two uprights of any kind, to those of cast iron ornamented in various ways, and kept by the ironmongers. They should always if possible have a receptacle for the dirt to fall into. A portable scraper. Jig. 391., which costs only t»'o shillings, is useftil, because it may be placed in any situation; as, for instance, in any part of the garden. CHAP. xn. BED-ROOM FUKNITURE. 1182. The furniture of bed-rooms, being of a particular kind, it appears proper to treat of it as a class distinct fi-oni that of the principal apartments. Sect. I. BEDS. 1183. The subject of beds includes the description of bedsteads, the bed itself, bed- - furniture and bedding. Bedsteads are the solid constructions or frame work upon which the bed itself rests, together with the canopy over it. Bed furniture comprises the curtains which gene- rally inclose the bed, or which are suspended from the canopy or top. Bedding includes beds and mattresses of all kinds, whatever they may be stuffed with, also the bolster, pillows, sheets, blankets, and counterpane. 1184. Historical remarks. — In the first and ruder ages of mankind, it was the general practice to sleep upon the skins of beasts, as was the case with the ancient Britons, and this custom still prevails in many of the Asiatic countries, and other parts of the world. These skins, some of which were worn in the day, were spread at night on the floors of their apartments. In process of time, these skins were changed for beds stuffed with straw, chaff, cotton, or other soft materials. Bedsteads among the Greeks were of the most simple forms, consisting of a couch without any curtains : they may be often seen represented on antique bas reliefs and in paintings, and appear to have had girth bottoms. We read also of pensile or suspended beds, by which, if necessary, the person might be rocked to sleep ; these appear to have resembled our hammocks or cot beds. Among the ancient Romans, a species of bed was used, imknown in modem times, which was for the purpose of resting upon at meals: this kind of bed was called Triclimwn, from its .being usually occupied by three persons. These, in the luxurious times of the