ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 198 Book V. thurefore, be necessary to describe a few only as simple metals. These are platinum, gold, silver, copper, iron, tin, lead, zinc, and quicksilver ; and we shall confine ourselves to the description of such of their properties as are important to be known in domestic economy. SuBSECT. 2. — Platinum. 899. Platinum, resisting the action of most chemical agents, would be a metal extremely valuable for domestic purposes, were it not so expensive in consequence of its rarity. It is of a dull silvery white colour, possessed of considerable lustre, and not at all liable to tarnish or be oxydized. It is likewise the most difficult to fuse of any metal, requiring for this purpose the most intense heat that can be produced, and it is capable of being wrought by the hammer, and rolled out into very thin sheets ; it is likewise very-hard, and is not acted upon by any of the ordinary acids. From these properties, it is easy to see how invaluable it would be for culinary vessels, did the expense permit. It is, how- ever, occasionally employed for chemical vessels, and even found economical from its great durability. It is said, that on the Continent they have succeeded in applying it to copper instead of tinning. SuBSECT. 3. — Gold. 900. Gold is valuable not only on account of its scarcity, which renders it very useful as a medium of exchange, but it possesses some peculiar properties which renders it pre- ferable to eveiy other metal for particular purposes. Its great malleability is exemplified in the making of gold leaf, so much employed in gilding. Its ductility and tenacity are shown by the drawing of gold and gilt silver wire, and in gold lace and embroidery. Its softness renders it easy to be worked into various delicate forms for ornaments, for which its beautiful rich colour and resplendent lustre, which are different from that of any other metal, peculiarly qualifies it ; and its perfect unalterability, when exposed to the air or fire, has justly stamped its high character in all ages. Its specific gravity is greater than any metal, except platinum. Its hardness is greater than that of lead and tin, but inferior to iron, copper, platinum, and silver. It cannot be dissolved by any acid except the nitro- muriatic, formerly called aqua regia, and which is a mixture of the nitrous and muriatic acids; neither of these acids, separately, can dissolve it: and it is precipitated from its solution in the state of gold powder by an alkali. It forms alloys with most of the metals. These properties render it invaluable for many economical purposes, which are well known ; and- its never tarnishing, if pm-e, when exposed to the air, occasions it to be so much used in gilding, both on wood and metals. SuBSECT. 4 Silver. 901. Silver is a metal not oxydized by the ordinary means, and therefore is perfectly harmless when made into vessels for preparing food. Its expense alone prevents its being employed for all culinary vessels; it is, however, used in these sometimes for particularly nice purposes. Not being acted on by the acetic acid, as iron is, knives for cutting fruit are made of it. Though it is not oxydized by exposure to the air, its surface becomes gradually tarnished, and, in long time, even blackened : this arises from the union of sul- phur with the silver, the resulting sulphuret of silver being of a blackish colour. The sulphur is derived from a portion of sulphuretted hydrogen, which is generally present more or less in the atmosphere, and more particularly when the air is impure. Pure water has no effect upon silver; but if the water contain animal or vegetable matter, it often blackens the surface, in consequence of the sulphur it may contain. The well- known blackening of a silver spoon by a hard-boiled egg, is owing to the sulphur which all eggs contain in the yoke. Silver is dissolved readily by nitric acid, forming with it a highly corrosive substance, lunar caustic, or nitrate of silver, used as marking ink. Though a hard metal, silver yields to the knife, but not nearly so easily as tin. which is the metal that comes nearest in resemblance to it. Silver is next in malleability to gold, and is capable of being rolled out and beaten into leaves of extreme thinness: it is so ductile that it may be drawn out into wire as fine as human hair. It is difficult of fusion, but may be melted and cast into moulds. It has been proposed to line the insides of saucepans and stewpans, with silver rolled out into thin sheets : these linings might he loose, by which they could be taken out to be mended. Plating copper with silver is a less perfect mode for that purpose, as the thickness of the plating cannot be easily exa- mined. Electro plating copper vessels is now practised. There are several alloys which have been made to assume the improper names of silver, as German silver, nickel silver, &c., in which there is not a particle of this metal ; and such names serve only to delude tlic public. It is to be observed that there can be but one kind of silver ; and the same observation may be applied to every other metal.