ILLUMINATION BY MEAN? OF GAS. Chap. V. 173 773. It docs not appear that gas-l/j/ht is more unwholesome than any other light, provided ■ the gas be properly purified, and the burners are constructed in the best manner ; but I there can be no doubt that when the gas is not deprived by purification of its sulphuretted 1 hydrogen, carbonic acid, and carbonic oxide, that it is very hurtful to health, and more par- ticularly where any is suffered to escape into the apartment unburned. On account of I the difficulty of guarding against the sources of danger, it is certainly not so well calculated : as lamps or candles for burning in apartments where there is not a free circulation of air ; , and its use has been of late generally confined to shops, theatres, and other large places • that are so open as to admit of a ready change of air. But those who use much gas light, t even when the gas is purified in the best manner, are often not aware of the degree in 1 which the light deteriorates the air. They forget that no flame can burn without con- ■ suming the oxygen of the atmospheric air in the apartment; and the greater the quantity 1 of light, the greater is this consumption. We refer the reader to what we have said on ! this subject in the beginning of this section, when describing the " Nature of Flame," and llikewise under " Ventilation." A single gas-burner will consume more oxygen, and produce more carbonic acid to ddeteriorate the atmospheric air in a room, than six or eight candles. If, therefore, no fprovision is made for the escape of the vitiated air, and likewise for the introduction of f pure air to supply its place, the health of those persons must suft'er who pass much of their ttime in a place where the gas is burned. 774. Gas-lights, when not well managed, frequently give out more or less smoke, which has t the great inconvenience of blackening the ceiling and walls of the apartment ; and some hhave thought that, by getting rid of this smoke, the unwholesome effect of the gas was rremedied ; but this is far from being the case. The smoke is merely charcoal in a finely ddivided state, and is not found to be particularly hurtful, if at all, to the lungs. It is the IJessening the quantity of oxygen by combustion, and hence leaving too large a propor- :;tion of nitrogen in the air, together with the introduction of much carbonic acid, that ..causes the impure, and more or less injurious nature, of the" air, where gas-lights are ! employed. 775. In some places, as in shops, a bell-shaped vessel of glass is frequently suspended' o-over tlie gas flame, fig. 151., in order to collect the smoke ; and this has, in some degree, ifthe intended effect, as far as the smoke is concerned; but, as we have stated, the deleterious effect of the gas remains the same, ■since this vessel has no effect whatever in preventing the forma- :tion of the various kinds of air which are always produced not- nvithstanding their invisibility. The only effectual cure for the evil we are alluding to, is to have a pipe from the head of this runnel or bell-shaped vessel, passing into the flue of the chimney, or to the outside of-the house ; a current of the burnt hot air pro- ■jeeding from the light would thus constantly pass out through his tube, instead of coming into the apartment. This is, in fact, lone in some places ; but the unsightly appearance of the tube s, perhaps, chiefly the reason why it is so seldom adopted. 776. Professor Faraday's mode of obtaining the perfect vcniila- ion of gas-lamp burners. When treating "On Ventilation," in •iook III., we noticed the bad effect produced on the air of apart- nents, where many lights were burning without sufficient means if getting rid of the foul air thus generated. Various methods lave been tried, but several difficulties had not been removed ;ntil the well-known talents of Professor Faraday were directed o this object. His method is not only very simple, but appears 0 be quite perfect in effect, where the lamps are supplied with ;as. We give the account of it from that which was read at the Bceeting of Civil Engineers, June 13. 1843. " In consequence of the serious injury sustained by the books in the library of the lithenajum, London, and the complaints made by the members of the vitiated state of the ir in the rooms, causing head-ache, oppressive breathing, and other unpleasant sensations, he attention of Mr. Professor Faraday, as well as that of other scientific members, was rawn to the subject of ventilating lamp-burners in houses, and he was induced to suggest he trial of various plans for effecting the removal of the products of combustion jiroduced y sources of artificial light. All substances used for the purpose of illumination may be eprcsented by oil and coal-gas; although tallow and wax are also greatly employed, yet, s until rendered fluid, like oil, they cannot be burnt, for all practical purposes tlioy may e classed with it. Oil and gas both contain carbon and hydrogen ; aud it is by tiio com- ination of these elements with the oxygen of the air that light is evolved. The carbon reduces carbonic acid, which is deleterious in its nature, aud oppressive in its action iu