RUBY — EMERALD — BERYL. 1067 Book XXI. Buhy. 6391. The ruby is a gem ivhich, when of the kind called oriental (and which we stated to be mineralogically of the same species as the sapphire) is of great beauty and value. The true, or oriental ruby, when perfect, is the most valuable of the gems next to the diamond ; the colour is a fine deep cochineal red, having a richness of hue unrivalled ; occasionally it is rose red, or has a tinge of violet. The monarchs of Pegu, Siam, and Ava, possess rubies of the greatest beauty, as the sovereigns of India had the finest diamonds. It is said that none equal to these are in the possession of European princes. The finest in Europe is said to belong to Mr. Hope. Rubies of ten carats are extremely rare; one weighing twenty-two grains sold for 160/. A perfect stone of six grains is rare, and falls little short of the value of the diamond; indeed, if some small rubies are very fine, they are of greater value than diamonds of the same weight. The natural crystal is in the form of a six-sided prism ; it cleaves more readily than the sapphire, and is not so hard. It consists, according to Chenevix, of 90 parts alumina, 7 silica, and 1-2 of oxide of iron. 6392. Bat there is another stone also sometimes called ruby, which belongs to a different species, and is inferior in value and hardness. This is the spinelle, or bulais ruby, which, when red, or violet, has been called ruby; thus we have the oriental ruby, and the spi- nelle ruby. The crystallisation of the spinelle is different from that of the sapphire, and consequently different from that of the oriental ruby. It does not consist only of alumina, like the oriental ruby, but contains also 8 per cent, of magnesia, and 6 per cent, of chi-omic acid. It may be distinguished from the oriental ruby by its inferior hardness and specific gravity. Its colour is usually some shade of red, as scarlet, cochineal, rose, violet, cherry, or yellowish red. When of a good colour, it is little less valuable than the oriental ruby. Among lapidaries the scarlet red is sometimes called ruby spinelle ; the pale or rose red, the balais ruby. The red topaz has been called by the lapidaries the Brazilian ruby, and a variety of red quartz, Bohemian ruby. Sect. III. EMERAID. 6393. The emerald in value ranks next to the ruby. It is of a pure, beautifiil, bright, and intensely green colour, when the stone is of the most perfect Ivind, called oriental ; hence the name emerald green. The colour, however, varies a little; sometimes it is paler, and the green less lively, or it is a pale blue, or yellowish. The form of its natural crystals is a six-sided prism, and it cleaves readily parallel to the axis of the prism. It is somewhat harder than quartz, but not so hard as beryl, though more difficult to cleave. Its composition, according to Vauquelin, is 64 parts silica, 16 alumina, 13 glucine, and 1'6 lime, glucine being the colouring matter. The finest emeralds come from Peru, where they have been found occasionally several inches in length. They are also found in Ceylon and Egypt; and in the latter country the ancients had emerald mines. A fine stone of four carats may be valued at 40Z. per carat; and an inferior one, of one or two carats, at from forty to sixty shillings per carat. It is always cut by the lapidary into facets, and is frequently set surrounded by brilliants. Fine emeralds are extremely rare. The green tourmaline has been called the Brazilian emerald. Sect. IV. BERYL. AQUAMARINE. 6394. The beryl is considered by some mineralogists to belong to the same species as the emerald, but it differs from it in hardness and composition, as well as in colour. The primary form of its crystals is a six-sided prism, terminated by a six-sided pyramid truncated, and this is its usual form ; the sides are striated longitudinally, whereas those of quartz, which its form resembles, are striated transversely, and it is harder than quai'tz. The crystals may be cleaved parallel to the planes of the prism, and more easily than those of the emerald. Its composition, according to Vauquelin, is 68 silica; 15 alumina; 14 glucine; 2 lime ; and 1 oxide of iron. The colour of the beryl is various shades of pale yellow, or green, or bine. The common beryl is scarcely employed in jewellery, on account of its numerous flaws and cracks. 6395. 'file aquamarine is a variety of beryl of a light bluoish sea-green colour, of various shades. It derives its name from the Latin with reference to its colour. In harduess it is inferior to the topaz. Formerly it was of considerable value, but of late so many have been imported from Brazil, Siberia, and India, that their value is much reduced, except they are very fine : the best come from Ceylon. Large stones, from one lo three or four ounces are not uncommon. Small stones may be had for a few shillings each.