ON COFFEE. tCuAP. XT. '715 1 matic filtering machine, and pass the liquid two or three times through it. The same : apparatus will do also to filter wine water, or other fluids. 40S1. Bearl's coffee percolator acts also by producing a vacuum below the coffee, in consequence of which the liquid is forced through by the pressure of the atmosphere, a, fiy. GOO., is a cylin- drical vessel of strong tin or other metal, having a piston that fits the inside, and is made tight by a piece of soft leather; the bottom of this piston is pierced with fine holes, and on this the coffee is put. This piston is raised up by means of a handle fixed to two uprights, c and d. If now this piston be put down to the bottom of the vessel a, and the coffee and water be put into the vessel on the piston, in drawing the piston up by the handle, all the air in a will be brought with it, except what forces through the coffee and percolator to fill up the vacuum that would be formed. Hence a clear and transparent extract of the coffee will be produced, which will be strong in proportion to the water employed. As con- siderable force is necessary to raise the piston, an axis, c, is passed through another upright piece bent at top like an arch, and round this axis a band passes that is attached to the handle 6 by a hook ; this axis being turned by a lever or cross handle, the raising of the piston is easily effected. The facility and quickness with which coffee can be made perfectly clear by this apparatus is a great recommendation ; but it is evident, that though the principle is unobjectionable, the form does not render it suitable to the drawing-room. 4082. An essence of coffee may be purchased in the shops, which will supply a cup of coffee at any time by diluting it with water ; but as the mode of preparing it is not generally known, and the taste is somewhat peculiar, we cannot recommend it as equal to the usual coffee, though it may he convenient, and even useful, on particular occasions, as in travelling. A tea- spoonful put into a cup of boiling water makes one of coffee. 4083. Coffee may be prepared by simmering over a lamp in the following manner, which may be useful for those who wish for an early cup of cofl'ee without disturbing servants. Procure for the purpose asimple cylindrical coffee-pot of tin, a, fig. 601., as wide at top as bottom, to hold the coffee and water ; then another cylinder, 4, e. must surround it, open at bottom, rf, c, and joined to the inner one at top, so much larger as to leave an inch space, or half an inch, between the two, and reaching an inch below the bottom of the inside one. To this outside cylinder three short feet,/, of strong wire, may be fixed. The cover of the pot should be double, the better to confine the heat; a handle is fixed to the outside cylinder, and also a spout from the inside one of sufficient length. Below this cylinder, which contains the coffee and the water, a small lamp with three wicks, or a chemical Argand lamp, is placed between the wire legs. The space between the two cylinders being always full of hot air, which is allowed to issue through holes at /i, i. The lamp should be so regulated, that the coffee should not boil, but only simmer ; and a very small lamp will be sufficient to keep up the simmering for any length of time. The oil should be of the best kind ; but spirit of wine or naphtha will be better to prevent smoke or smell. Before the coffee is drimk, the lamp should be withdrawn, and the liquor should rest to be cleared. 4084. Fig. 602. is an apparatus for making coffee vei'y useful for trnvcUers. It consists of a tin cylindrical vessel, with an opening for introducing a l.imp with three wicks, ■which may burn spirits of wine. Three wires bent at both ends, as in the wood-cut, are hung upon the edge of the cylinder, and upon these the coffee-pot is made to rest. As the handle is made to take off, the coffee-pot can be packed inside the cylinder. 40H.'). Cujffee Jiiay likewise be made by infusing a proper quantily in cold water, .and letting it remain all night; in the morning the infu. sion may be filtered and only heated, not boiled ; some prefer thia mode. 408G. Professor Gregory has given a receipt for preparing a cold infusion of cofj'ee. He directs th.it a cylinder shall be provided, about two feet long, and two inches wide, terminating below in u funnel, which is to be pl.iced in the neck of a bottle. A small portion of cot- ton wool being inserted in the neck of the funnel, half a pound of coffe(! is to be mixed with as much water as to form the consistence of thin porridge ; .md when this has stood an hour or two, it is to ho introduced into the cylinder. Immediately a very strong infusion will begin to ilrop into the bottle; and when the dropping ceases, the coffee will still he impregnated with .nlrong liquor. To obt.iiu this, more w.ater must be poured upon the coffee, till the iubibion becomes p.de, when the coffee is exhausted. Several lintllcs will be required, and this operation m.iy last three or four days, some kinds of coffee being sooner exhaust('d than otIuTs. The cont<'nt« of the several bottles .are lo be mixed together ; and in this way six imperial pints of good coffee may be obtained from half a pound ; hut the strength, of course, is a matter Fig- 601.