Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 777 Taking advantage, however, of the usual cold of our winter, and exposing animal food of any kind to a temperature not quite so low as freezing, so that the juices are not con- verted into ice, does not produce any injurious effect upon the flavour, but on the contrary, renders the meat more tender, while all the sapid qualities are perfectly pre- served. 4440. TTie most complete mode of employing ice in this country for the preservatioti of food is by a well-contrived ice-house; but where this cannot be had, many methods more econo- mical may be employed. See " Ice-house," Book YIII. Chap. VII. Sect. IIL preserving animai food by salt. 4441. The power which salt possesses of preserving animal food from decomposition has been known from time immemorial. In the early periods in this country, before markets were so well supplied as they now are, with fresh meat, the barons and other ■wealthy persons laid in an immense store of salted provisions against the winter; for so wretched was the state of husbandry, that they often had not subsistence for their cattle during the winter months, and they killed some of them for this reason to preser\'e the flesh in salt. Thus Hume informs us, that when the insurgent barons ravaged the estates of the elder Spencer, in the reign of Edward II., he had in his larder the enormous quantity of 600 bacons, 80 carcases of beef, and 600 muttons; the latter as well as beef being at that time salted. Nor do things appear to have been any better in 1512; for from the "Northumberland Household Book" we learn, that during the winter months the family lived on salted meat. The scurvy was then one of the most common diseases in this island, owing no doubt to the great use of this kind of food and the scarcity of vegetables. In later times, it was usual for families in the country to lay in a stock of salted meat in October and November, which served for their consumption during the winter and spring; but in consequence of the universal establishment of markets, butchers' shops, and travelling butchers, this is less necessary, and fresh meat may at present be had in most places almost every day. Large quantities of meat, chiefly beef and pork, are, however, salted for the use of the navy, and for exportation to the East and West Indies, of which Ireland supplies a large proportion. The property which salt possesses of pre- serving animal substances from putrefaction is of the greatest importance to the empire in general, and to the remote grazing districts in particular. It enables the latter to dispose of their live stock, and distant navigation is wholly dependant upon it, as long voyages could not be undertaken without the usual stock of salt provisions. 4442. Animal food is rendered harder and less digestible by being salted for preservation; and the quantity of salt with which it is thus incorporated is greater than is beneficial to health. Hence it is that those who feed much upon salted provisions are liable to peculiar complaints, as was the case with sailors who in long voyages were often attacked with scorbutic diseases, before the method of preventing them was so well understood as at present, when great care is taken to have supplies of food preserved fresh, and likewise of lemon juice or citric acid. Salting is at present the most general process by which meat is preserved in the British Isles : and as, in describing the methods of salting provisions, mention is often made of different kinds of salt and their various qualities, we propose to explain the nature of this substance and the modes of preparing it. Of tlte various Kinds of Culinary Salt. 4443. Common or cxdinary salt is obtained from two sources. It is found in great abun- dance in the waters of the ocean ; sea water containing about three per cent, on an average. This substance is also found in the solid form, composing rocks in various parts of the world ; this is called rock salt, of which there are mines in Cheshire, from which most of oursalt is derived. There are likewise many springs of water issuing from the earth so highly impregnated with salt, that they are called bri?ie springs; these are supposed to owe their origin to water passing through rock salt below ground, in consequence of which it dis- solves a portion of this mineral substance ; on evaporating the water of these springs, or sea water by boiling, salt is procured. From whichever of these sources salt is obtained, it is never quite pure, being at first contaminated with earthy substances, or with other salts; and it has to be purified or refined, before it is fit for all domestic purposes. These salts are sulphate of magnesia, or Epsom salt, sulphate of soda or Glauber's salt, muriate of lime, and sulphate of lime; they are nearly all separated in the process of refining the salt, by chemical processes not necessary to describe in this place. Common