Book VIL 502 ON FOOD. filbert, including a kernel of a pale greenish colour. Their taste is very agreeable, much resembling that of sweet almonds ; but they are sweeter, have more flavour, and are more oily; hence they are liable to become rancid. On the Continent, in places where they are plentiful, they enter into the composition of ragouts and various dishes. A variety (P. Atlantica) is slightly acid, and is made, -with dates, into cakes by the Arabs. SuBSECT. 8.—Brazil Nut. 2775. These are also called chesnuts of Brazil, and are brought to us from Para. They are much esteemed, having a kernel resembling that of the almond, but larger, containing a great deal of oil, and tasting more like the hazel nut. The kernel, of a wedge-like form, is found within a very hard shell, as large as a child's head, -which grows in clusters of fifteen or twenty. The tree which produces them is a Juvia, rising to the height of 100 or 120 feet, and abounding on the banks of the Oronoco. SuBSECT. 9. — Acorn, 2776. The acorn, which is the well-known fruit or nut of the oak tree {Quercus, Linn.), formed part of the food of man in the early ages, before the use of corn was known, and fi-equent allusion is made to this circumstance by the classic writers. They are seldom used at present, except for the fattening of hogs, deer, and poultry. It is not cert.nin that the acorn was ever employed as the common food of the inhabitants of this island, although they might have been among the ancient Brituns. Oak forests in the time of the Saxons were much prized, chiefly for the fruit, which was useful for fattening hogs, the flesh of which was the principal food of the people at that time, a circumstance attributable to the great rapidity with which the hog multi- plies his species, and the little preparation required for its maintenance. 2777. The fattening of hogs upon acorns was, among the Saxons, considered as an important part of domestic economy. Droves of swme were fed in tlie woods, particularly in the New forest of Hampshire and the Wealds of Sussex. This right whii h the people enjoyed was called pannage; and the being deprived of it by William the Norman, who had a p.ission for converting all the forests into hunting grounds, was one of the public griev.mces which was redressed by Magna Charta. The name is Saxon, tscern signifying com of the oak. 2778. Tlie taste of common acorns is rougli and disagreeable, and they are astringent and difficult of diges- tion ; even the hogs who feed upon them should go at large, and not be confined to the stye. Notwith- standing tliis objectionable quahty, they have, in times of famine or great scarcity, been dried, ground into meal, and baked as bread in this country as well as in France, and it is said that they are still used in Norway and Sweden; but they are there lirst boiled in water, and mixed with one half or one third of corn flour, in which case they supply a nutritious food. Acorns are eaten at present in Spain, where they were long con- sidered as a great delicacy, and even brought to the dessert. Cervantes often mentions them in his Don Quixote; but the Spanish acorns are sweeter than those of England. Some of the South American oaks produce acorns which are mild and nutrilive. Acorns have been tried as a substitute for coCfee, roasted, and naviug a little butter added to represent the oil in coffee ; but they are not reconunendable. Sect. VIL BERRIES. 2779. The name of berry (Bacca) is given to certain small fruits which consist of a pericarpium or skin full of juice or pulp, and seeds disposed throughout the pulp with- out any membranous capsule or covering. Almost all of those which we use as food grow upon shrubs cultivated in gardens, or are found wild on mountains or heaths. The most useful among them are the gooseberry, the currant, the raspberry, cranberry, and barberry, to which may be added the strawberry. SxTBSECT. 1. — Gooseberry {Ribes Grossularia, Linn.). 2780. This is perhaps the most useful of our fruits known by the name of berries. The best sorts form an excellent dessert fruit when ripe, and in their green or immature state they are employed in tarts, sauces, and creams. They are extremely useful when preserved, as they easily may be, throughout the winter. See Book X. Chap. IV. " Pre- servation of Food." 2781. The gooseberry is a native of cold climates, and is probably indigenous to these islands, or it has been long naturalised here, being foimd occasionally growing wild upon old walls, and in the woods and hedges in Cambridgeshire and Norfolk. It may be considered as peculiarly an English fruit, being produced in greater perfection here than in any part of the world. Foreigners are astonished at the size and flavour of this fruit among us. In Norway and Sweden the seasons are too rapid for its full developement. The climate of Holland and some parts of Germany appear to suit it, and the pale kinds were first brought from Flanders in the time of Henry \Ul. It grows wild in many parts of Europe, but the southern parts are too warm for it; although it is found in Piedmont, the fruit is astringent, and neglected. It is scarcely known in Italy and Spain, and in France it is little esteemed. 2782. In its uncullivalcd state it is a small berry, and it has been brought to its present state of perfection by the skiU of English and Dutch gardeners; it may be easily raised m