ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 681 Chap. VIK. S0BSECT. 4. — Spirit from various Vegetable Substances. 3841. Spirit from potatoes. — In some parts of the Continent a great deal of spirit is distilled from potatoes : these form an excellent material for this purpose, as they contain ahout five per cent, of starch. There are two methods of performing this : one is to convert potato starch into sugar, and then to ferment the sugar, and distil from the fermented liquor; the other process is to procure the spirit from the potatoes without making starch. 3842. For the first method, the following process has been employed : — 75 gallons of water are put into a fermenting vat lined with lead, and capable of holding 250 gallons. The water is heated by means of steam to 176°. In another vessel, also lined with lead, 3 cwt. of potato starch, 6 cwt. of water, and 6 lbs. of oil of vitriol are mixed, and the whole poured into the first vessel, the heat being carefully maintained. In about six hours, the starch will be converted into sugar. To get rid of the acid, 20 lbs. of whiting are added to neuti-alise it; the saccharine liquor is then drawn off, fermented with yeast, and the spirit distilled from it. 3843. For the second method, the potatoes are steamed, bruised into the state of pulp, and thrown into a tub with water of the temperature of 63°, in the proportion of 4IG lbs. of water to every 100 lbs. of potatoes ; the whole must then be suffered to ferment. While this is going on, 31 lbs. of malt in a state of fermentation are added, and the whole fermented together. As potato juice contains a small quantity of tartaric acid, a little potash made caustic must be added to neutralise the acid ; and it also serves to dissolve the albuminous matter that had been coagulated by the lieat, and thus give complete fluidity to the mass. About half a pound of potash is sufficient for every 100 lbs. of potatoes. The fermentation finishes in about from 48 to 60 hours, when a spirituous odour will be perceived. This fermented mass is now passed through a sieve to separate the pulp of the pnt.itoes, and the liquor is put into the still. The spirit afforded by distillation will be in the proportion of 8 French pints of spirit for every 100 lbs. of potatoes ; and the strength of the spirit will be such that It will contain 30 per cent, of pure alcohol. It is found that 3i bushels of potatoes afford as much spirit as one bushel of malt; or 38 cwt. of potatoes and 200 gallons of malt will yield about 225 gallons of spirit. The peculiar taste of potato spirit is removed by rectifying it with chloride of lime, about an ounce to c.ich ten gallons of spirit; but roots and carrots mixed with the potatoes improve the flavour of the spirit. Some add aniseed or other flavouring ingredients. As potatoes pass readily into the acetous fermentation, the process requires to be conducted with great care. 3844. A brewery and distillery are common accompaniments of farming establishments in Germany and Norw.iy ; the farmers there produce spirit from potatoes as well as from barley, for their own use and that of their servants and labourers. We confess, we do not wish to see this example followed in this country, conceiving spirits less wholesome than beer. In France there are large manufactories for making sugar from potatoes, and for making spirit from the sugar. It must be observed that our laws do not permit the distil- lation of spirit from potatoes. 3845. Birch spirit.— The sap of several trees contains sufficient saccharine matter to yield a spirit. The Swedes make a kind of strong spirit from the juice of the birch, by fermentation and distillation; and the ash is employed for the same purpose in northern coimtries. 3846. Peach brandy. — A great deal of this so-called spirit is made in America, both South and North; and likewise in Persia, where this fruit grows in abundance. The process is the same as that employed in making spirit from cherries. 3847. Cyder spirit.—This is occasionally distilled in Devonshire from the lees of cyder; but the flavour of the spirit is not to be commended. It may, however, be much improved by careful rectification, and has been made to imitate brandy by means of some additions. 3S4H. Spirit from beet-root has been made in the following manner: — Procure a quantity of the same beet- roots that is employed for the manufacture of sugar ; wash them well and boil them in steam ; mash them in two-thirds of their weight of boiling water, and add a thirtieth of their weight of ground malt. Mix this well together, and leave the whole in a covered vessel for three hours ; strain it through a wire sieve having the meshes one-third of an inch square. When the temperature h.-is fallen to 77°, add the proper quantity or ye.Tst, and ferment in a covered tun. The fermentation will be finished in five or six days, and the wash is. then to be put into a still and the spirit drawn off. A hundred lbs. of beet-root will aflbrd ten or twelve lbs. of proof spirits. 38H). Spirits can be made from various other vegetable substances, as carrots, gooseberries, the service berry, horse-chestnuts, even some kinds of sweet grass, any vegetables, in fact, which contain sugar: but they are not important enough to deserve particular description. SuBSECT. 5.—Arrack. 3850. Arrack is the East Indian name for all ardent spirits, and it is made there from various materials. One kind of arrack is distilled from rice ; another is made from the juice of various species of palm ; a third from both these mixed; and another from mola.sses and mowah, a kind of sweet berry. 3851. In makiiuj arrack from rice, the grain called ketun, or glutinous rice, is used by the natives; it is boiled, and having a ferment added, called n/*/, it is exposed in open tubs till fermentation takes place, when the liquor is put into earthen vessels, and kept buried in the earth for some months to check the fermentation. Large (luaiUities of arrack are made iu liatavia, where molasses and toddy are mixed with the rice before it