Chap. VI. FABRICS OF MIXED MATERIALS. 998 ' the weft is worsted of British wool. There are often imitations of silk patterns from Spitalfields, and form a very showy manufacture, used for waistcoats. 5850. Toilinette has a weft of woollen yarn, and the warp of cotton and silk, used for waistcoats. 5851. Cassinette is made of a cotton warp, and the woof of very fine wool, or of wool and silk ; it differs from valentia and toilinette, having its twill thrown diagonally. 5852. Swansdown is made of wool with a small quantity of silk, for waistcoats; an uiferior kind has cotton instead of silk. 5853. Woollen cord resembles corduroy, and is cut in the same manner as cotton cord, which is one of the varieties of fustian ; but the face is wholly woollen. It has a warp of cotton and weft of woollen. It is strong and warm, and is well adapted for riding. 5854. Linsey woolscy is a homely fabric, formerly much used by women among the . working classes, made of thread for warp, and its woof worsted, generally one blue, and the other white, or mixed with red. 5855. il/erinoi are sometimes made of superior wool and silk. On a few other Materials used occasionally in maMng Cloth. The following substances, either actually employed, or proposed, for making cloth, are more interesting as objects of curiosity, than as deriving any great importance from their actual value. They are, however, proper to be noticed, since, in this age of invention and speculation, hints of this kind may possibly suggest new and useful applications. 5856. Several other caterpillars besides the silkworm spin a kind of silk ; but it does not appear that any successful experiments have been made on them, with the view of employing their threads in cloth. 5857. The short-legged spiders also form balls of silk to inclose their eggs. Some trials have been made with these; but they have all proved inferior in quality to the true silk, or cannot be procured in sufficient quantity to render them an object of attention. Indeed, from the ferocious disposition of these insects, they cannot be kept together in any number, : as they fight and destroy each other. 5858. The pinna marina, a species of large mussel abundant on the coasts of Italy, has the faculty of spinning from its body cei'tain brown fine threads, resembling silk, by which it fastens its shell firmly to the rocks. These threads, collected, form a remarkably fine kind of silk, of which stockings, gloves, and other articles, in small quantities, are manu- : factured by the people on those shores. The pinna fastens itself so strongly to the rocks, • that the men who are employed in fishing it are obliged to use considerable force to break ■ the tuft of threads by which it is secured, fifteen, twenty, and sometimes thirty feet below : the surface of the sea. The threads of this shell have, from very ancient times, been ■ employed in the manufacture of certain fabrics; it was well known to the ancients under ! the name of byssus, and was wrought, in very early times, into gloves and other articles ' of dress and ornament. It appears that robes were sometimes made of it, since we learn : from Procopius, that a robe, composed of byssus of the pinna, was presented to the : satraps of Armenia by the Roman Emperor. Several beautiful manufactures are wrought with these threads at Palermo. They are, in many places, the chief object of the fishery ; and the silk is found to be excellent. The produce of a considerable number of pinnse is required to make one pair of stockings. The delicacy of the thread is such, that a pair of stockings made of it can be easily con- 1 tained in a snuff-box of ordinary size, and, notwithstanding their extreme fineness, are : found to protect the legs alike from cold and heat. Indeed, stockings of this kind are : found too warm for common wear, but are esteemed useful in gouty and rheumatic cases. This great warmth of the byssus, like the similar quality in silk, results, probably, from both being imperfect conductors of heat as well as of electricity. It is not probable that 1 this material will ever be obtained in great abundance, or that it will cease to be a raritj', I except in the places of its production. It is never seen in England except in the cabinets I of the curious. 5859. A species of vegetable silk may be procured, according to M. la Rouverie, from I the young branches of the paper mulberry, from the bark of which the Japanese prepare : a paper. Cutting the bark while the tree was in sap, and then beating it with mallets and ■ steeping it in water, he obtained a thread from the fibres, almost equal to silk in quality; : and this was woven into a cloth whose texture appeared as if formed of that material. The women of Louisiana prepare nets and fringes from fibres obtained, in the same 1 manner, from the mulberry ; and the finest of the Otaheitian native cloth is made of the ' bark of this tree. 5860. The leaves of the pine-apple plant have been long known to afford a fibre which I may be applicable to the purpose of making a species of cloth. The leaves are, in fact, I composed of a bundle of these fibres, lying parallel, and extending from the base to the I point of the leaf To prepare these fibres for use, it is only necessary to pass the leaves 3 S