I iChap. XIV. SUGAR FROM OTHER PLANTS THAN THE CANE. 727 :ifrom the wound; this he collects in his vessels ; a good tree will afFord daily about three quarts of juice, which turns sour if kept longer than three days. 4 US. To prepare the sugar called jaggery, a little quicklime is mixed with the juice to .labsorb any acidity that may arise, and the latter is boiled on the day it is collected. The I'process of making the sugar is so simple that it is produced at much less cost than that :from the sugar-cane. Accordingly, it is this article, and not cane-sugar, that is chiefly i consumed by the poorer people. Mr. Crawfurd, in the account of his embassy to Ava, mentions that, on the upper part oof the river Irawaddy, there are immense groves of palm trees grown for the manu- Sfacture of sugar; and that the price of it did not exceed a penny a pound. It nearly re- isembles the product which in Jamaica comes out of the cooler before it is taken to the c curing-house, containing both sugar and molasses, being only a little more inspissated. Sect. II. MAPLE SUGAR. 4149. The sugar maple {Acer saccharinum. Linn.) is another of those vegetables which yield ,a large quantity of sugar of the same kind as that from the sugar-cane. It grows abund- 3 antly in the southern parts of Canada and the northern parts of the United States, and I proves a considerable source of wealth and domestic luxury in America. The fanners t there manufacture it for their own use, and in the districts where it is produced, no other > sugar is employed. It is not equal in quality to West India sugar, except it be refined, ' which is seldom'done. The sugar or American maple is generally a smaller tree than the maple of this country ; ! but it grows sometimes to the height of from sixty to eighty feet, and from two to five in I diameter. 4150. To procure the juice or sap, holes in each tree are bored with an auger to the depth of about two inches, and slanting upwards, and a piece of hollow cane is inserted I for the sap to trickle through into a vessel placed below. The sap will continue to flow : sometimes for six weeks, according to the temperature of the weather; and according to Dr. Rush, a moderate sized tree affords from twenty to thirty gallons of sap, from which : five poimds of soft sugar may be obtained. There are three modes of converting the sap into sugar: evaporation in the ordinary heat of the air, freezing, and boiling ; the last is the most usual, and the most rapid. Many farmers who make it for their own use, by no better apparatus than one or two iron kettles, obtain two or three hundred pounds in the space of a fortnight or three weeks ; but manufactories of maple sugar on a great scale are now likewise established. 4151. T/ie usual method qf making maple sugar by the farmers is the following: it is necessary that the juice should be boiled as soon as possible after it is drawn, for if it be allowed to stand for twenty-four hours, it is apt to undergo the vinous fermentation, by whicli the sugar would be lost. Tlie sap is boiled down in the voods where it is drawn, and the concentrated sap is then strained through a flannel and clarified with whites of eggs, into tlie iron pot for boiling it into sugar. The scum is taken ofl'as it rises, and tlic whole should bo well stirred. When it is supposed that most of the water is evaporated, and the sugar begins to form, a little should bo taken with the ladle and tried; if the sugar is sufficiently boiled, it will granulate. The whole may now be poured into some shallow vessel, and kept well stirred till it cools and granulates. It should then be put into a wooden vessel, having holes in the bottom like a cullender, and stirred frequently for a day or two ; the molasses will drain off, leaving the sugar finely granulated and having a sparkling grain, like pounded sugar.candy, if the processes are well performed. One pound of sugar is obtained from iorty pints of sap ; and as, wherever there is sugar, the vinous fermentation can be induced, it is obvious, that the juice could be fermented into wine, and that spirits might be distilled; indeed, a considerable quantity of rum is made from it in America, as well as excellent vinegar. Sect. IIL beet-boot 8uoab. 4152. Marggraf, an etninent Prussian chemist, first called the attention of the public to this subject, in 1747. He was successful in obtaining from the roots of the white and red beet a sugar nearly in the state of Muscovado or raw cane-sugar. Afterwards, Chaptal, a celebrated French chemist, established a manufactory of beet- root sugar; and in 1825 there were twenty-five establishments in France. Of late, these manufactories have increased so much in that kingdom, that at present they amount to 407. The process for making it does not differ materially from that employed in making cane-sugar. The white beet is the best, as giving no colouring matter ; and 100 parts of the entire root afford from two to two and a half of refined sugar, exactly similar to that from the cane. In France, by various improvements, they make but little molasses, and they convert most of the Muscovado into refined sugar, which is of equal whiteness and beauty to that from the sugar-cane. Beet-root sugar is said to constitute one half of the sugar consumed in France. 3 A '1