CUAP. III. BATHING. 1223 should be immediately afterwards put into a warm bed, and remain there until late in the next morning: but in all other cases, where perspiration is not required, or in which it would be hurtful, the best time for using the warm bath is in the fore-noon, about two hours after breakfast. In this case the bathers should not retire to bed, and it is not absolutely necessary to confine themselves within doors : but if the weather is cold, it will be prudent not to go immediately into the open air, but to remain quietly in the house for an hour after the bath. 720.5. Springs of water in a state of nature are found at various degrees of temperature, even boiling ; some of them, when of a moderate temperature, constitute warm and hot baths. In this country the only natural warm spring is that of Bath, the temperature of which is from 96° to 106°, although the water issues from the spring at 116° : on the Con- tinent, there are many warm and hot springs ; those of Vichy and Barege are 120°; of Borset, 132; of Aix-la-Chapelle, 143°, and Carlsbad, 165°. 7206. With respect to the form of the bath, though the common portable bath answers every purpose for which the bath is usually administered, yet in some cases, particularly when the stay in the bath is prolonged, a large open bath is much to be preferred, as the constrained position in a small bath cannot be borne long. Indeed Bath is the only place in England where the warm bath can be taken with the greatest benefit. Our usual warm baths are necessarily artificial, and are to be found in the public establishments for the purpose. Besides these there are portable baths of the full size sold by ironmongers, of tin-plate painted and of copper, as Jiij. 911. 7207. Fig. 911. represents one of these baths with a fire and flues beneath to heat the water. It is scarcely necessary to observe that the bath must be placed near the chimney that the smoke pipe may go into the chimney flue. The convenience of this construction of bath is very great, the labour of filling a bath with warm water being considerable. 7208. The hip hath. Jig. 916., is fitted to receive the hips only, and to affect those organs that are contained within the pelvis. It has the advantage of requiring very little water, as the bulk of the part immersed raises the water on each side so as to cover the hips, and it is sloped so as to aflbrd a support for the back. ■ In using it a pillow or a blanket should be placed on the slope. 7209. The leg bath, fig. 917., should be deep enough to allow the water to rise as high as the knee. The pro- jection at the bottom is to permit the foot to find room, without increasing the diameter of the upper part. 7210. The font bath is generally an oval pan of tin or earthenware, of sufficient size to admit the feet with ease. Fig. 018. is an - improved kind with a rest for the foot in drying it. After getting the feet wet, plung- ing them into warm water will often prevent any ill consequences; and this is found of great service in the chill and slight shiver- ing which usher in colds, fevers, and other in- flammatory complaints; and in inflammatory diseases where the head and throat are much affected, the employment of a foot bath at a later period often gives great relief, by causing a revulsion of blood from the upper to the 'lower part of the body. The warm douche bath has been already mentioned, p. 1220. Fig.mr. 211. Dr. A. Thomson's portable bath consists of a jiiece of water-proof cloth made up into the form of a sailor's hammock, ^zj. 919., and kept extended by two long poles, a a, a, a, passed through a broad hem on each side of the hammock, and also by two other cross pieces of wood, /) c, b c, fixed to the long poles by thumb-screws. The apparatus is supported by placing the long poles on two tressels or chairs. The advan- tage of this contrivance, besides its portability, and the ease with which it may be put, when not in use. Into a convenient place, is, that a smaller quantity of water is sufficient than in a bath of another form ; the bottom being narrow, the same quantity of water that would stand in height in an ordinary bath only three inches is sufficient to cover the whole body of the bather. The water is drawn ofi' by a hose or flexible tube, d. 4 I 4