1052 STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. Book XX. 6271. Effervescence is the bubbling occasioned by the escape of gas from any liquid, giving an ai)pearance like boiling. An example of this is seen when muriatic acid is poured upon chalk. 6272. Funnels are made of tinned iron, pewter, stoneware white and brown, glass, and of various sizes. Very small funnels are useful to fill phials and other small bottles. Wiiere acids are to be poured, glass or earthenware are requisite, as metal will be cor- roded. Glass is excellent, because one can see if it be perfectly clean. 6273. Test papers for detecting acids and alkalies.— These are sold at the chemists'. That for ascertaining whether any acid exists in a liquid is blue; if there is any acid, the blue paper tinged with litmus will turn red when dipped into it. Those for alkalies are yellow, with turmeric; any alkali in a liquid state will turn them brown. 6274. The ground stoppers of phials sometimes get so fixed that Ihoy can scarcely be moved. Several methods have been practised for loosening them. When the haml is not stronj; enough, a hand-vice may be tried ; but great care must be taken tliat it does not break the phial. Tapping each side of the neck successively witli a piece of hard wood sometimes produces the desired effect. When these methods fail, heat may be tried. Plunge the neck of the phial into boiling water, or heat it gently by a spirit lamp. Here care must be taken tliat the contents are not very volatile, or tliey may burst the bottle. When the neck has been warmed, whicli expands it, a smart blow with the hand, struck upiui the bottom of the bottle, sometimes detaches the stopper. A little olive-oil put round the stopper for a diiy or two, will soak into the neck and often loosen the stopper. When all these methods fail, the stopper, if it be worth the expense, as in the case of a decanter, may be got out by sending it to the china mender, who works it out by a drill. 6275. With respect to quantities in the preparations of the still-room or kitchen, it is very important to have a certain precision, and in some cases it is absolutely essential. Instead of the frequent ill-defined directions of a bit of this, a handful of that. &c., Dr. Kitchener particularly recommends that cooks should accustom them- selves to use weights and measures more frequently. There should be a mea- sure for a gallon, a quart, a pint, and half a pint. Graduated glass measures are sold at the chemists', which save much trouble, yf^. 810. One of these, containing a wine pint, is divided into sixteen ounces, and the ounce into eight drachms of water, by which a certain weight, which is mentioned in a receipt, can be mea- sured out. Measures of this kind are easily made, by weighing the water, and Fi^^'sw scratching a mark on any tail glass for the space it occupies. A file will do to mark with. 6276. A table-spoonful is often mentioned as a measure or quantity in a recipe or pre- scription as given by medical men or in books. By this is generally meant and under- stood a measure or bidk equal to what would be produced by half an ounce of water. 6277- By dessert-spoonful is meant the half of a spoonful; and a tea-spoonful is in quantity equal to a drachm of water. This is best adjusted by a graduated glass measure, sold at the glass shops, for spoonfuls. 6278. A drop is the name of a vague species of measure, so called because the liquid is dropped from the mouth of a bottle ; but the quantity of a drop may vary, depending upon the consistency of the liquid, and upon the size and shape of the mouth of the bottle from which it proceeds. The London College of Physicians have fixed the quantity of a drop to one grain, sixty drops being a fluid drachm. This sixtieth part of a fluid drachm they call a minim: and glass tubes, graduated for the purpose of measuring minims, may- be purchased at the glass shops. 6279. A good balance or pair of scales is necessary. It is requisite to have scales for ordinary uses, and others for occasions where greater delicacy is required. Fine scales should be kept in a box secluded from the air, and should never be overloaded. They should be used in a good light. 6280. Glass rods or tubes are convenient for stirring ; so are the stems of tobacco pipes. As glass tubes are liable to be broken by rolling ofi" the table, soften one end in a flame, and bond about an inch ; they will not then roll. 6281. Glass tubes may be bent and drawn out by the heat of a good spirit lamp, and may be broken at any required place by first making a mark on it with the corner of a file. Larger tubes may be softened and bent over a charcoal fire in a small portable furnace. Glass blowing, with a table and bellows on purpose, might afford an elegant and useful amusement; as thermometer bulbs and other useful things are easily made. 6282. Spoons of metal and wood are used for various purposes : a spatula is for rubbing pastes. 0203. Cements of various kinds should be kept in the still-room, for occasional slight purposes, or for mending furniture. Of the first,^r)f«- paste is well known : if required to be stronger than usual, a little gluo may be boiled In it: some put powilered resin in it. n'/ii/e of egg, or a solution of glue and strong gum-water. are good cements. A paste marie qf linseed meal dries very liard and adheres firmly. A snft eement is made of vellow wax melted with Its weight of turpentine, and a litlle Vi'netian red lo give it colour. This, when nol"d is ns hard as soap, but ran be softened bv the warmth of the hand, and is very useful to stop up cracks; and is b(!tter lo cover the corks of bottles seiit to a distance than sealing-wax or hard cement. Plaster qf Paris mny serve as an occasional cement. 6284. Otlicr fittings-up in the .ilill-room should be the following : — A small sink wiili water laid on, which may be covered over when not wanted :