ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 124 Book IV. ■combustible body unites -with the oxygen of the atihosphere, and forms carbonic acid gas, •which is likewise disengaged, and spread through the surrounding air. But still another portion of the carbon remains, reduced to a vaporous form ready to unite with hydrogen, and to burn with oxygen'; this remaining portion of carbon, however, being in the centre of the flame, has no hydrogen to unite with, that being all, or nearly all, burned ; or if there be a little hydrogen left, still no oxygen can find its -way to the centre of the flame to complete its combustion ; consequently, this carbon vapour remains by itself, and, rising in a column through the upper part of the flame, a part gets burned at the top, ■where it meets with oxygen, but a large portion also escapes unconsumed. It is this latter part that escapes, which, when it comes into the cool atmosphere, is condensed, and appears in the form of smoke, which may be collected as a powder in the form of soot on any surface held over it. This escape of unburnt carbon vapour may be very instruc- tively watched in the burning of a tallow candle. Sometimes the flame may be observed quite steady, and tapering to a point; then all the carbon vapour is burned at the top, and there is no smoke. Presently the flame is observed to flicker, to become red at the top, and to give out a great deal of smoke; in that case, the carbon vapom- has escaped un- burnt through the flame. 557. It is obvious from this, that the cavse of smoke in candles and lamps, is because there is no suppli/ of oxi/gen to the centre of the flame, in consequence of which, the carbon vapour, which fills the hollow part, cannot be consumed, and therefore escapes into the apartment unburnt, by which a loss of heat and light is occasioned, into which it would have been converted, could oxygen be got to it. This defect in the combustion of lamps has been remedied by the invention of Argand, to be afterwards described, and by which oxygen is admitted to the centre of the flame to constmie the carbon vapour which occasions the smoke. 558. The flames of different combustibles are not all attended with an equal production of heat and light. Sulphur burns with a weak flame; phosphorus with a very dense one. Spirit of wine burns with a slight flame in point of light, but a very powerful one in re- spect to heat. If an Argand's lamp be charged with oil, and another similar lamp be charged with spirit of wine, the flame of the latter will not have a quarter of the light of the other, but will give twice as much heat, and is not accompanied by smoke. The flame of ether is denser, but produces smoke. The flame of oil of turpentine is attended with a very dense smoke. The flame of pure hydrogen is very faint, but gives much heat. 559. Tlie colours of flames also depends upon the nature of the combustible. Sulphur burns with a blue flame. Spirit of wine by itself also burns with a bluish flame. If a little boracic acid be stirred into the spirit of wine, the flame will be beautifully green. If any of the salts of strontian be mixed, the colour will be a fine red ; and it is this latter which is employed in the theatres for producing the red light in the representation of confla- grations. The flame of zinc is a bright white: that of the preparations of copper greenish- blue. 560. The combtistible vapours and gases are not all inflamed with equal readiness. Pure hydrogen gas may be inflamed, not only by the contact of another flaming body, but even by a very small electric spark. A spark a little more powerful wiU fire spirit of wine and ether, especially when the fluids are a little warm. Spirit of turpentine, and some essential oils may be inflamed even by the action of cold acids. Put a spoonful of oil of turpentine in a cup, and pour over it about half that quantity of strong nitrous acid previously mixed with a few drops of sulphuric acid: the oil of turpentine will imme- diately burst into a flame. In making this experiment, it is necessary to put the acid into a small phial, which should be fixed to the end of a long stick, that the operator may be at a distance from the turpentine ; because the flame is so sudden, that it will be dangerous to bring the hand near it. The thick fat oils must be heated to a considerable degree, before they are in the state of giving out vapour, so as to be inflamed. If a vessel containing oil be set upon a fire, a smoke or vapour begins in time to rise from it, which by degrees grows denser and denser, and at last begins to shine in some places near the surface of the oil, somewhat like an electric light; yet it does not flame ; but if a flaming body like a candle be brought within the vapour, the latter will instantly be inflamed, breaking out with a sort of explosion, and will continue to burn till the whole is consimied. Serious accidents frequently occur in boiling oil, pitch, and similar substances, by approaching too neaP with a light, or by sufi"ering them to boil over, by which their vapour is set fire to, and the whole of the oil is inflamed. 501. The above principles explained, it will now be easy to comprehend many of the circumstances connected with lights of various kmds, which would be wholly unintelli- gible without this previous knowledge. We shall proceed to describe the several con- trivances which have been resorted to in employing the combustible substances used for giving light, such as lamps, candles, &c.