Book VIL ON FOOD. 38a 1881. The horse cannot be enumerated among the animals which supply us with food, although its flesh Is oaten and much relished in some countries. Among the inhaliitants of Huroi)n there is a great repugnance to the use of horse-flesh, except in cases of famine. In Kngland it is never employed as human food, but only for cats' and dogs' meat; but it is confidently stated, that in a manufactory in Paris, where every part of the horse's carcase is converted to various uses, the workmen often cat the flesh, and that parts of it are not unfreqnently substituted lor butchers' meat in some of the low eating-houses of that capital. Those who have tasted it speak of the llesh of a young horse as extremely palatable ; and there can be no doubt that it is wholesome. It is well known that the Tartars have always been extremely fond of horse-flesh, which they eat nearly raw, and likewise smoke it for keeping. This is also practised by the natives of Chili, and other parts of South America. 1882. The ass is said to be inferior to the horse as to tfie aliment which its flesh affurds, although, according to Pliny, the Romans at one time brought it to table. The wild ass is still in much esteem among the Per. sians, who consider it as equal to venison. 1883. V'/ic xfhra is considered in Africa as excellent food. 1884. The hippupolaimis is a huge, unwieldy creature that inhabits the rivers in warm climates, feeding upon herbs. Its flesh supjilies a snbstanfial meal to the African, and when young it is delicate; but when old it is coarse, fat, and strong, being inferior lo beef. 1885. The tapir is also a large and clumsy quadruped, much addicted to the water. The American Indian compares its flesh to beef, though probably it is inferior. 188<i. The elephant, from its gigantic size, might be supposed to have Its flesh very coarse and indigestible. This, however, does not appear to be much the case. It is eaten in Abyssinia and other parts of Africa : also in Sumatra, and is said to be well tasted. Some steaks that were cut ofl' the elephant that was shot at Exeter Change, on being cooked, were declared to be " pleasant meat." 1887. The rhinoceros, when young, is good and tender, but when large is said to be tough, and like musty pork. 1888. The walrus, or sea-horse, is eaten by the Esquimaux. A large one will weigh 4000 lbs. One was killed by Captain Parry's sailors which weighed 173fi lbs. The heart weighed 8 lbs., and was cooked, and declared excellent. The tongue, also, was good when fresh, but became oily by keeping. The flesli was dark red, and coarse. 1889. The vianata, or sea-cow, is a large marine animal, measuring nearly twenty feet long. U is an her- bivorous, harmless creature, and gives rich milk, from which butter may be made. Its flesh resembles beef or veal. It is found at the moutlis of the great rivers of America. 1890. The armadillo is eaten in South America, and its flesh is fat and excellent. 1891. The kangaroo of Anstr;Uia, when young, resembles venison, some say mutton; when old it is tough. It is much sought after as food, but from the scarcity of quadrupeds there, is becoming rare where for- merly it was abundant. 1892. ne opossum Various species are eaten in America, Australia, and the Indian islands. Young ones are reared for the table The flesh is white, and well tasted. 1893. The hedgehog is considered as a princely dish in Barbary, and is eaten in Spain. 1894. The porcupine is reckoned delicious food in America and India. The meat is white, sapid, and wholesome, and resembles sucking pig. They are sold in the markets in Rome. I89.'i. The guinea pig is n6t spoken of favourably as food. 1896. The beaver is fat and delicious. 1897. The squirrel is tender meat, and a favourite dish in Sweden and Norway. It is sometimes eaten by the lower classes in England. 1898. The jerboa is highly prized in Arabia. 1899. The camel, so valuable as a beast of burden, furnishes excellent meat to the Arabs and Tartars. The flesh of the young camel is as delicate as veal. The hump is considered the best part. 1900. The lama of South America is reckoned excellent food, and resembles wether mutton. 1901. Antelopes are a numerous class of animals belonging to warm climates, from the size of the deer to that of the cat. Their flesh is esteemed a great delicacy. 1902. The chatnois resembles the goat. 1903. The bear supplies an article of diet to several nations of Europe. The hams are considered to be excellent. The flesh in general, in its fresh state, is compared to beef, but is coarse. 1904. The polar bear is stated by Sir John Ross to be particularly unwholesome, although the Esquimaux feed upon it, and, apparently, without inconvenience. 1905. The seal has its flesh coarse and oily, and only fit for Greenlanders and the Esquimaux; never- theless, it was formerly served up at feasts in England together with the porpoise. 1906. The otter is eaten by the Laplanders and Esquimaux; but its flesh tastes fishy. Of this animal Mr.T.Bell observes, " That it may not only be readily and easily tamed and domesticated, but taught to catch and bring home fish for its master, is a fact so well known, and has been so often proved, that it is surprising it should not have been more frequently acted upon ;" and Bishop Heber states that in India tame otters are kept by fishermen, and assist them in driving shoals of fish into their nets; yet an animal capable of being so useful is frequently in England hunted and killed for mere sport. Mr. Bell describes the manner of training it in his work on " British Quadrupeds." From the piscatory habits of this animal, and its fishy taste, it appears that our ancestors could not decide whether it was fish or flesh. It was permitted by thechurch of Rome to be eaten on maigre days ; and Pennant states that the Carthusians, an order never allowed to taste flesh during their whole lives, made no scruple of serving up a roasted otter in their refectory. 1907. Apes, baboons, and monkeys, are eaten in Africa and South America, and are said to be palatable, varying, however, with age and species. Lieutenant Smyth speaks of them as not disagreeable meat. 1908. The dog, the faithful companion and friend of man, is not employed as food among European nations; but in many parts of the world the flesh of dogs is considered as good food. In the African kingdnms Whidan and Dahomey, it is sold in the |)nblic markets, and there dogs are fattened for the purpose. This is also the case in China, and among the Calmucs. In the islands of the Pacific, dogs are eaten, but thoe are kA upon vegetables. We learn also from Pliny, that puppies were considered as a great delicacy by the Roman gourmands. - . 1909. The cat is not avowed as food in any European nation ; but the occasional substitution of this animal for a rabbit is known to travellers. 1910. The mouse is not eaten amongst us ; but in many countries mice are used as food, not from neces- sity, but as a delicacy. Even the rat, which is generally'held in abhorrence, is 6,aid to be wholesome and savoury food. Both are eaten in Asia and Africa, not only without reluctance, but are sought after as deli- cate morsels.