Book XI. 840 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. coal con objectionable I'Jni!!. . considerable in this apparatus ; and there may be numerous cases where It may be found w !^r; K," !;''' ■'".'"ticularly where fnel is dear; and the great heat given out by an iron stove is not ,ciionat)le ; hut it must be observed that, as the heat pniduced in the apartment by this aiiparatus when In operation must be very great, this must be taken into consideration in applying it; and, indeed. It is usually employed as a warming as well as a cooliing apparatus. With this view it should be placed in the chimney or just outside, the iron pipe which carries off the smoke being inserted into the flue in the usual manner. I n tills case, however, all the objections to defective ventilation will remain in full force, and likewise the danger 01 Irequent overheating, particularly if used in summer for cooking. We cannot therefore recommend this machiiie lor our English cottages, since many other arrangements may be contrived nearly as economical, and mucli better calculated to promote a change of air so necessary to health. As an addition to our usual kitchen furniture, it is much inferior to other plans in common use ; its great weight is an objection. It may be useful to acquaint those who wish to try this stove, that it is manufactured by Messrs. Cottam and Hallam, Winsley Street, London, and costs about eight or ten pounds. Fig. 697 Fig. 696. Fig. 698. 4747. An iron stove, serving also as an oven, is used in the United Slates, Jig. ()98., and is described bv Dr. Arnott. This stove is square, and has an iron box in the middle, which is the oven ; the wood lire burns at b, beneath, and the flame circulates in the direction of the arrows, the smoke going out through the flue, c. This serves also to warm the apartment, but has the usual defect of iron stoves. 4748. Cooking by means of a lamp. — Among the many resources of the culinary art produced by necessity, or which ingenuity has suggested, is that of performing most of. its operations by the heat of a lamp only. The native inhabitants of those regions nearest to the poles, the Esquimaux, who have not the advantage of either coals or -wood for fuel, have the ingenuity to employ fish oil burnt in lamps made of stone, both for warming their habitations and for cooking their food. Lamps afford a very convenient mode of applying heat on many occasions. The dressing of food may thus be effected in situa- tions where an ordinary fire cannot be had, as on ship-board in stormy weather, in camps, or in travelling. Lamps may be considered as portable furnaces, capable of giving much more heat than is generally supposed. They are made in a variety of forms, adapted to the kind of fuel, and the particular objects for which they are employed. 4749. The spirit lamp is the most elegant, and though too expensive for the ordinary operations of cooking, is much employed in certain cases, more particularly in heating a small quantity of liquid, or keeping liquids hot, as in the instances of tea-kettles, and coffee-pots, &c. ; but cases have occurred at sea and in camps, and in travelling, where the spirit lamp has been adopted as the most convenient. Although the flame of spirit of wine is pale, and gives very little light, it affords considerable heat, and it possesses the important advantages of not giving out the least smell nor smoke, and, of course, of not depositing any soot or stain upon the vessels to which it is applied ; indeed, such a lamp was employed with advantage by Captain Parry in his northern voyage. Oil is the general fuel for lamps of this kind ; but tallow may likewise be employed, and, indeed, any kind of fat; but such lamps must be of the most simple kind, otherwise the wicks would get clogged. A circular dish or basin having several wicks at the edge may be used. Fiy. G99., the coustruction of the Rumford tea-kettle, with an external cone, c, will be found the best adapted for a boiler to be heated by a lamp, the fliame playing under the bottom of the interior part, 4750. The chemist's lavip, on the Argand principle, may like- wise be employed as an excellent mode of obtaining heat ; and it may be observed that the double, or concentric-icick'd Argaml lamp affords so intense a heat that it may be applied to a great variety of culinary operations where portability and great heat are required. The portable furnaces of the laborafori/, of which there are many kinds, may also be used with advantage in many culinary processes. 4751. A portable apparatus for boiling by a lamp is represented in fig. 700.; a is a receptacle for the lamp ; and the best for this purpose is the chemical Argand lamp with the short copper tube, this affording much the strongest heat without smoke. On this Fig 700 fits the vessel b, of tin or copper, to hold the meat to be boiled,