847 FURNITURE OF THE KITCHEN, ETC. Chap. IV. 4784. Cullenders, ov colanders, Jig. 735., are vessels having the bottom pierced full of holes, for straining or separating the more liquid from the solid part of substances. 4785. An iron hand-mill, securely fixed to the -wall, is necessary for grinding coffee, and another for rice flour, barley flour from Fig. 735. pearl barley, or oatmeal from groats ; and a smaller hand-mill for pepper, &c. 4786. Cinder sifter Scarcely anj'thing is more destructive to the furniture of our apartments tlian taking out tlie asiies from tlie grates in the morning, from their flying about, and raising a cloud of dust that after- wards settles down over every part of the room, and has to be removed by careful brushing and wiping ; but the great mischief generally done by this, which is too often perl'ormed in a careless manner, is seldom sufB- ciently understood, because the operation is performed early in the morning, and the rooms are dusted after- wards. We would recommend, therefore, that a cinder sifter should constantly be a part of the housemaid's apparatus. This simple machine, the cost of which is trifling, will not only prevent almost all the destruction we have mentioned, but will save the housemaid herself from the dirt inseparable from the usual mode, and, what is not undeserving of attention, economy and the cleanliness of the fire will be promoted ; for when the ashes are taken down without being sifted, a great deal of good cinders go into the dust-hole, in spite of the endeavours of the most careful servant. The best cinder sifter is made of tin in the form of a slop-pail, but larger ; in the inside is a wire sieve that takes out. The ashes being put into this sieve, the lid of the pail is put on ; and by turning round and shaking the latter, the ashes fiill through, leaving the cinders alnne in the sieve. The pail should now remain quiet for a few minutes till the ashes subside, and then the lid may be taken off, and the cinders used to put on the fire ; or if that is not required, they may be kept for other fires or coppers, and the ashes thrown into the dust-hole. A cheaper kind of cinder sifter is made of wood ; but the principle is the same. Considering the great convenience of this little instrument, it is surprising that they are not employed in every family. 4787. Bellows. — The use of bellows is frequently declaimed against in good housewifery, and certainly the fires may be managed perfectly well without the use of this apparatus; but there are, nevertheless, occa- sionally cases where they are extremely convenient. 4788. The common bellows for blowing the fire is a very ancient and a very simple and ingenious invention. „ The principle on which it acts is its forming a vacuum into which air rushes to fill it up, wliich is afterwards expelled tlirough the nozzle in a stream by pressing the two boards together. It consists of two flat boards, a and b.fig. 73G., united by a leather joint ate, and having leather nailed on the edges, so as to permit the boards being separated at one end. On the inside of the circular hole, d, in the lower board, a leather valve is fastened, which permits the air to enter when the upper board is raised, but shuts when the boards are brought together, and thus obliges the air to be driven out at the nozzle. This simple apparatus affords a good illustration of the fact that air is a substance as well as water; for having raised the upper board, as in blowing, and stopped up the nozzle, it will be found that it is impossible to shut the bellows, the air within resisting as much as if it were water, which could not be the case were the .air not substantial matter. 4789. The double bel/ows is mostly used for the forge; but it is occasionally employed in a portable form in the same way as the single just described. In this there is another board in the space between tlie upper and lower ones ; and there is a valve opening upwards likewise in the middle board. By this means a continuous blast is produced; but this construction is generally too heavy for domestic use. 4790. Clarke's patent blower, fig. 737., is a great improvement on the double bellows, producing a con- tinuous blast, but being at the same time very light and cheap. It consists of a tin tube, having attached to it a barrel, in which is contained a circular fan like that used for winnowing, and which is driven round by a wheel, a, rubbing against a smaller one. A, fixed on the axis of the fan. The air enters .at the holes on the sides of the barrel; aud the leaves of the fan reaching close to the interior circumference of the barrel, the air is expelled in a continued stream through the tube, c. This apparatus blows up the fire much better than the common bellows, which, if used injudiciously, sometimes puts the fire out. Fig. TSl. c Fig. 736. 4701. The Chinese bellows consists of a box of wood about two feet long, fig. 738., and one foot square, in which a thick square piece of board, which exactly fits the internal cavity of the box, is pushed backwards and forwards. In the two ends of the box, and in the internal board, there are valves to admit and expel the air; it is, in fact, a kind of pump. A single tube, like a gun-barrel, was perhaps one of the first instruments for blowing the fire, and is still generally used in the cottages in the north of France. 4792. Cast-iron stands, with revolving tops. fig. 759 , Are usefu\ to place things on occasionally before the fire to keep hot; by the top being movable, the several sides of the dish may be pre- Z^^^^::::^^^^^ sented to the fire very conveniently. '^^^^^^^^p^ 4793. Brooms and brushes are articles of furniture in daily use, and are made of various materials, as whisk, hair, cane, whalebone, &c., and of a great variety of forms, according to the uses to -which they are applied. They are too well known to require particular description, but may be enumerated as carpet brooms, made of a strong white grass, termed whisk; chamber brooms, made of long hogs' bristles ; hand brooms; bannister brooms; TVir/i's/ic«(7, with a very long handle, for sweeping down cobwebs and dust from cornices, &c.; feather brooms, for dusting pictures and delicate articles ; hearth brooms, both plain and ornamented, some of which are made with the handle to shut up short like a telescope for drawing and bed-rooms. There are brooms for offices, yards, and areas, of birch, some of which are made for this purpose in the form of chamber brooms, but of the inside of the canes called rattan, after the out- side has been stripped off' for the seats of chairs ; these are extremely effective and durable, as well as cheap. The bed-chamber brooms should be kept in a closet on the bed-room story for them and other similar utensilSf