Book IV ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 1G2 of it. The wick should be of cotton thread dipped in -wax, and cut into short pieces ■when one is consumed, it is sufficient to pierce the wax with a large pin down to the burner, and introduce a fresh one. The best way of extinguishing wax lamps so as to preserve the wick for re-lighting, is to overcharge it with wax by holding a piece of wax over it till it melts and falls on the wick, reducing the flame, which may be then put out by a gentle puff. Sect. XVL lamp without flame. 719. A curious night lamp witliotitflame is made,^^. 144., from a philosophical principle discovered by Sir Humphrey Davy. If a cylindrical coil of very thin platina wire be placed partly round the wick of a lamp with spirits of wine, and partly above the wick, and the lamp be lighted so as to heat the wire to redness; on the flame being blown out, the mere heated vapour rising ft-om the spirits of wine will be sufiicient to keep the upper part of the wire red hot for any length of time that the spirit remains. This beautiful and simple contrivance will give sufiicient light to see the hour of the night by a watch, or to do any thing that requires very little light, and will not be liable as a flame to disturb persons not accustomed to burn a light. It has also the convenience of being always the same, requiring no trimming, and being peculiarly safe, as it can give no sparks. Its heat is sufficient to kindle German tinder, or paper prepared with nitre, and thus to light a sulphur match. The size of the platina should not exceed one hundredth of an inch. A coil of twelve turns is sufficient. When the wire collects a crust round it, it may be brightened, and made Fig. Ui. to act as well as at first, by uncoiling and rubbing it with fine glass paper. This curious effect is produced by the heat of the wire being sufficient to cause the invisible vapour of the spirit to combine with the oxygen of the atmosphere, and thus to burn, although the heat is not great enough to occasion that kind of combination which gives rise to the emission of light. It is, in fact, an invisible combustion of the vapour of the spirit which continues to rise, and which, being extremely inflammable, was set fire- to by the red hot wire in the first instance ; the constant production of vapour through evaporation causes its invisible combustion to maintain the wire in a state of red heat as long as it is immersed in it. As the decomposition of the alcohol, and the union of its hydrogen and oxygen, give rise to acetic acid, which has an unpleasant odour, it has been proposed to use eau de Cologne instead of spirits of wine, which would diffuse an agreeable fragrance. With respect to this lamp it must be observed, that it is to be con- sidered rather as curious, and illustrating some chemical principles, than as particularly useful. Sect. XVIL CABRL1.GE LAirPS. 720. In ordinary carriages for travelling, the light is an oil lamp of the common kind, with either a round or flat wick. Attempts have been made to use Argand lamps, but hitherto without success, as they are liable to be extinguished by a violent draught of wind. In carriages of the best kind, wax candles are used for the light, on account of their superior cleanliness, although their light is inferior to oil. The wax candles are contained in tin tubes, through a hole in the upper part of which the wick passes, the candle being pressed upwards as it is consumed by a spiral spring. In dress carriages the lamps are more ornamental, consisting of circular boxes of glass, in which are burned wax Candles. The lamps of travelling carriages are square,' and have wooden slides to shut before the glass in the day: sometimes they have reflectors. Sect. XVIIL hall lamps. 721. These are either of the vase kind, when small, as a and l>, fig. 145., or consist of panes of glass in frames, as c andrf; and the lights may be, in the first case, simple lamps with one or more wicks, or Argand lamps, when a stronger light is required. Of course it is essential that a supply of air shall be given to the light by proper openings in the containing vessel. A glass is suspended over the lamps, when they are not Argand's, to collect the smoke which otherwise would blacken the ceiling.