BIRDS. Jhap. v. 403 Sect. XIX. PLOVER. 20S3. The plover is a -n-ild -water fo-»l, but often seeks its food on the arable land in the icinity of the sea. It has a peculiar cry, which is easily imitated by the sportsman, and ; thus lured to its destruction. They roost on the ground, and are sometimes taken ,'ith nets by hundreds. There are two species of this bird, the grey and the green ; the jrmer being somewhat less than the woodcock, though larger than the green. The green lover is generally preferred for its flavour, but both are inferior to the woodcock. Pro- igious flights of these birds, consisting of many thousands, are to be seen in the Hebrides Dd other parts of Scotland ; and in the winter, such numbers are sent to London, that the larket is sometimes quite glutted with them, and they are sold very cheap. They are kept 11 they have a game flavour, previous to dressing; but though a great favourite with many, ley have a peculiar taste not universally relished. Plovers' eggs are considered to be a reat delicacy, and are easily to be had from the poulterers ; they are generally brought I table boiled hard, but are occasionally eaten raw. Sect. XX. LAPWING ( Tringa vanellus. Linn.). ; 2084. This is commonly known in England by the name of the bastard plover. It is equent in our fenny counties, and in wet places in most parts of England. In winter :ey are seen in large flocks. Their flesh is very good, their food being insects and orms. The eggs are of an olive cast, spotted with black, and are much esteemed for ■eir delicacy. Lapwings are taken with nets during October and November, and are 'Id by London poulterers at three shillings the dozen. Sect. XXL BED GROUSE {Tetrao Scoticus, Linn.). 12085. The beautiful plumage and exquisite Jlavow of this bird render it an object of con- derable interest. It appears to be a native of Scotland and the north of England, in the lountainous districts of which it is found by sportsmen in great plenty, feeding on various Tries that grow among the heather, and also on the tops of this plant; hence it is often lied moor game, or moor fowl. It does not undergo any change of colour in winter, but iquires a greater mass of clothing, and its legs become covered with a sort of hair-like athers. The breeding season is early in the spring, and the brood continue in company T some months, sometimes joining others which range the high moorlands, where they 'e shy, and difficult to be approached. Their colour is a rich chesnut barred with lack. Sect. XXIL black grouse {Tetrao tetrix, Linn.). ^2086. This bird, called also the black cock, or moor fowl, is larger than the red grouse, Lie male weighing sometimes four pounds, and the female two pounds. It is also less cmmon, and therefore more highly prized. It is met with nowhere in Britain but in ?e Highlands of Scotland and the mountainous heaths of the north of England. Its jumage is a rich mixture of black and blue relieved by markings of white, and its legs ?e covered with very minute feathers. The form of its tail is remarkable, branching :to two crooked expansions. Its food is similar to that of the last described bird, last numbers of these birds are found in Norway of large size, being nearly equal to rrkeys ; and of late many have been imported into London, and sold in the shops ; but eese are not equal in flavour to the Scotch smaller kind. Sect. XXIII. WOODLAND GROUSE {Tctrao urogallus. Linn.). •220S7. This is likewise called the " cock of the wood," and is the largest among the rrds which we denominate game, it being little less than the turkey. It was originally iimimon in the mountains of Britain, but is now nearly extinct with us, occurring only I the Highlands of Scotland, though still abounding in the north of Europe, Germany, md the Alps, where it lives in pine forests, on the cones of which it is supposed to sub- rat, and which, at some seasons, gives its flesh a tcrebinthinated taste. It is in general ;l licious eating, and is sometimes sent to Englapd preserved in ice. From the great J) d 2