64 Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. then, the sensation of superior heat in the metal when touched? The fact is, that the metal, from its t)eing the best conductor, parts with its heat more readily to the hand than the clothes, and, consequently, excites in a greater degree the sensation of warmth. If iron, marble, wood, and flannel be exposed to the sun's rays together for a certain time, they will all acquire the same temperature, yet, upon touching them, the metal wili feel the warmest, and if they are exposed together to the cold, the metal will soon feel the coldest, notwithstanding the thermometer will show the heat of them all to be equal : the reason will be easily deduced from what we have already said. 284. It is to be observed that there is no such thing as absolute cold, cold being only a loss of heat, and not a thing positive. It was at one time supposed that there were rays of cold as well as of heat; but this is now considered to be an error. Nor do we know any substance deprived altogether of heat: although intense degrees of cold can be produced, still it is imagined that we have never arrived at the greatest possible degi-ee of it. 285. Fluids of all kinds, and air, are much worse conductors than solids; indeed, they can scarcely be said to conduct heat in the same manner as solids. The particles of solids bemg fixed, heat is communicated from particle to particle, until it has passed entirely through : but water and air scarcely at all transmit heat in this manner ; their parts, being moveable, become expanded by heat, and consequently specifically lighter : hence they rise upwards when they are heated, and give place for others to be heated in their turn ; the several parts of these fluids are therefore in constant motion while heating; but if this motion be prevented or obstructed, fluids form the most perfect barriers to heat that are known. It is for this reason that double sashes to apartments are much used in Russia and other northern countries, because the confined air between them does not admit of the passage of heat through it. 286. Count Itumford found that the non-conducting property of air was much increased by mixing with it some light loose substances, as wool, or, what is best of all, eider down ; and he very ingeniously explains the reason why these and similar substances are so efi"ectiial in forming warm clothing. He observes, that " the warmth of the wool and fur of beasts and of the feathers of birds, is undoubtedly owing to the air in their interstices, which air, being strongly attracted by these substances, is confined, and forms a barrier, which not only prevents the cold winds from approaching the body of the animal, but which , opposes an almost insurmountable obstacle to the escape of the heat of the animal into the atmosphere. In the same manner the air in snow serves to preserve the heat of the earth in winter. The warmth of all kinds of artificial clothing may be shown to depend upon the same cause; and, were this circumstance more generally known, and more attended to, very important improvements in the management of heat could not fail to result from it. A great part of our lives is spent in guarding ourselves against the extremes of heat and cold, and in operations in which the use of fire is indispensable; and yet how little progress has been made in that most important art—the management of heat!" . . . . 287. TTie mode in which heat is communicated to water in our ordinary processes is a very interesting and useful subject of inquiry. We have already stated that it is not heated in the same way as solids, and we have briefly explained the manner in which its tem- perature is raised ; but, as the heating of water forms a very important part of our subject, we must enter more minutely into some of its details. And, first, it is proper to be known that, until Count Rumford published his very curious obsei-vations, it had not struck philosophers that there was any remarkable difference in the mode of heating water or other fluids, and solid substances; and it is worth while to mention the circumstance that led him to make so valuable a discover}', because it points out, in a striking manner, the utility of observing with attention, and reflecting upon, many of the ordinary occurrences that are continually happening around us. Wishing to cool some spirits of wine in a wide glass tube, he placed it in a window; after a short time, casting his eye upon the tube, he observed some particles of dust which had got in moving upwards and downwards with considerable celerity, and it struck him that these motions were too regular to be accidental. He continued to observe them with attention, and saw that they diminished gradually as the fluid lost its heat, and ceased altogether when it was cold. He found also that these motions were renewed upon every fresh application of heat. He afterwards converted this into a beautiful experiment by employ- ing minute grains of amber instead of the dust, by means of which the motions were ren- dered much more visible. Reflecting upon this experiment, and varying it in many ways, he at last was convinced that these motions were entirely owing to currents in the fluid, and that it was by these currents that the cooling and also the heating of liquids is effected. When any part of the water is heated, and particularly if it be that at the bottom, which is the case when a vessel full of water is put on the fire, it expands, becomes speci- fically lighter, and, as we stated above, rises to the surface, and sends down an equal portion to be also heated : when this is effected, the portion sent down rises for the same reason, and displaces another portion ; and in this way there is a continual change of place