962 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII It is supposed by some, that this property called fdfmg, which is best seen in hat- making, gave rise to the earliest kind of woollen cloth, before spinning and weaving were invented ; since the disposition of wool to mat together and unite into a very compact body could not escape notice. The Tartar tribes at this day make a cloth or felt for their tents, merely by spreading out the wool on the ground, and causing it to felt together by treading it with warm water, and beating it; and very lately this process of making cloth by felting only has been revived in this country, and very thick woollen fabrics, for various purposes, are made without spinning and weaving, and by felting only. This process is essential to the beauty and strength of woollen cloth, and it is observed that the softer wools felt in much less time than the harder, and form a closer pile on the surface of the cloth, on which account it is a common practice to mix a certain quantity of soft wool with the hard, to enable the former to felt with more facility. The elasticity of the filaments has also a considerable effect in promoting the felting, as it causes them to curl. The furs of the hare, the rabbit, and the beaver, being naturally straight, cannot be employed alone for felting, till they have acquired a curling texture at their points, by the application of nitrate of mercury. It is scarcely necessary to mention that, as the cloth shrinks so much in the fulling mill, it must first be woven so much wider to allow of this shrinkage. 5652. Cloth thus milled to its propel- thickness must next be scoured with clean water till it is perfectly free from the soap ; and in this process, a preparation of fullers' earth and bullock's gall is found very serviceable, rendering the cloth at the same time soft and mellow. It is then stretched on the tenter frame, and left to dry in the open air. 5653. The dressing of cloth is another operation it has to go through, which consists in bringing a nap on it, by drawing out all the fibres of the wool that can possibly be brought to the surface, which is afterwards shorn as close and even as it will admit of, without laying bare the threads of the fabrics. The nap is raised upon the cloth either by teazles or by wire cards. The natural teazels are the balls which contain the seed of a large thistle called Dipsacus fiillomim, which is cultivated on purpose ; the scales of these balls project on all sides, and teminate in sharp elastic points that turn downwards like hooks. When these are used by hand, the heads of the thistles are cut o£F, and set close together in small wooden frames, forming a tool not unlike a curry-comb. It is worked by two men who, holding the teazel frame by the handles, scrub the face of the cloth hung in a vertical position. The first time of dressing the cloth they wet it with water, and work it by strokes in the direction of the warp, and next in that of the weft, so as to raise up all the loose fibres from the felt, and prepare it for shearing. In large manufactories this operation is performed in what is called a gig-mill, which originally consisted of a cy- linder set close round with teazles, but now sometimes covered with brushes of fine wire instead of teazles. 5654. The next operation is shearing or cropping the cloth. The cloth being laid on the shearing boards, which are made of wooden planks covered with coarse cloth, and forming a kind of hand cushion, the wool thus raised is cut off by long heavy shears, which are pressed close to the cloth with leaden weights and gradually slide forward at every motion or cut, till they have proceeded from one list to the other. Lately an improved kind of shears, of French origin, are much used. The cloth is then returned to be again scraped, rubbed, and brushed; and these operations are repeated every time with finer cards or teazels, till the wool becomes sufficiently raised. Shearing by machinery was first intro- duced in 1802, and finishes cloth in a more perfect manner than shearing by hand. 5655. Tlie cloth is then taken to the rack, on which, being fastened by the lists with small hooks or tenters, it is drawn or strained, until it be of an even width throughout, and it is then sheared again, to complete the surface. All the little bits of straw or lint that may adhere to it are now picked out, and any holes that may be discovered carefully fine drawn. After the shearing, cloth is subjected to the brushing machine, and the calender. 5656. Nothing now remains to be done but pressing, preparatory to which, the cloth being doubled and laid in even folds, a leaf or sheet of'glazed pasteboard is inserted between each fold of the cloth ; it is then laid in the press, and covered with thin wooden boards, in which are placed iron plates properly heated; and on the whole, the top of the press is brought down, with the degree of force judged necessary to give it the proper gloss. When cold it is taken out of the press, folded and packed, ready for sale. The satiny lustre and smoothness given by strong compression with much heat is ob- jectionable, as it renders the surface apt to become spotted and disfigured by ram ; this is taken oflf by steaming and brushing. The difficulties attending the manufacturing fine cloths, with the degree of perfection which the art has now attained, may be easily imagined from the number of necessary processes to complete it, every one of which demands workmen who confine themselves to one process, in order to acquire the requisite dexterity. The whole process occupies about six weeks. The French broad cloths, particularly those of Sedan and Louviers, formerly surpassed those of all t-urope in Ei If-.