BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 573 so long in tap that the beer would become flat. Casks or barrels holding eighteen gallons are most convenient in general. Each cask must be well fitted with a bung, vent peg, &e. These casks should be kept very clean, and though they may be cleaned by good rinsing, if not very foul, the only perfect mode is by taking out the heads so that they can be ■well scoured with a birch broom to remove a slimy matter which forms, and which rinsing alone will not remove. This is generally done by the cooper, but any one may soon learn to do it. The iron hoops of casks should be kepf, painted, to preserve them from rusting. Immediately after they are empty, the vent peg should be fastened down, and the tap hole stopped with a cork well fitted and ham- mered in, to prevent the access of air, which would soon cause the mouidiness to grow, and spoil the beer, not only of one brewing, but probably of several successive ones. 3258. Thermometer. — This instrument is found of great service to the brewer, and should always be employed where accuracy is required. It will be found particularly useful to those who have not had much experience in brewing, and who are unacquainted with many signs and symptoms which the practised brewer avails himself of By it the proper heat of the mash is regulated, and of the worts when drawn from the mash tun. It points out when the worts in the coolers are of the proper temperature to begin the fermentation; and it marks the progress of this process by the increase or diminution of the heat. For this purpose there are thermometers of great length, to allow of their going through the head of yeast into the wort, while the necessary part of the scale is above the froth. ScBSECT. 3. — Construction of the Brewhouse. 3259. In small establishments, if brewing is performed at home, the washhouse is frequently also the brewhouse: but where it can be atForded, it is much better to have the brewhouse a separate building. 3260. The complete mode of arranging a brewhouse is to have all the parts so disposed that the liquor should not be carried from one place to another; but it should flow through pipes by descent in the various stages of the processes, so as to occasion as little trouble as possible. With this view, the water cistern should be in the highest part of the build- ing, and below should be the copper; then, in a descending order, the other vessels, until at last the beer runs into the casks in the cellar. Beer may be conveyed to any distance by leathern pipes with screw joints. 3261. The situation for tlie brewhouse should be airy and detached from the house. There should be a plentiful supply of water, soft if possible. It is desirable to separate the place for boiling and mashing from that for cooling and fermenting, to prevent the heat of the boiling from affecting the cooling. A yard is best for cooling, or an open shed. The mash tun and underback are best above ground ; it is a bad way to have the latter sunk below. The coolers should be large, and should communicate with each other. Fans or refrigerants are useful for driving off the steam, and cooling the wort: this will also protect it from foxiness, which stillness is apt to promote. The fermenting tun should be insulated, and not touch the wall or ground. 3262. Jn the great breweries the various apparatus for brewing are ingeniously contrived, and disposed in a very convenient manner for operations on a great scale; but few of these being applicable to domestic brewing, we omit entering into any description of them as foreign to the object of this work; recommending, however, a visit to one of these establishments by those who are desirous of acquiring an enlarged and comprehensive idea of this manufacture. 3263. Tlie arrangement of a private brewery is not unfi-equently as in fig. 559. a is the copper supplied with water from a cistern above ; b is the mash tun, served with water from the copper by a pipe ; c is the underback, from which the sweet wort is pumped up by the pipe d into the copper to be boiled with hops: from thence it is run into the cooler e, which, when the brewery is considerable, is made of boards, and is raised upon strong supports. When of the proper temperature, the wort is sent into the fermenting tun,/, by means of a temporary trough placed from the cooler. After the fermentation is over, the beer is drawn off into the casks or barrels and put into the cellar. SuBSECT. 4. On purchasing the Materials for Brewing, and the Quantities required, 3264. The general nature of the several materials necessary for brewing malt liquor, namely, malt, hops, yeast, and water, have been already described. A few words may be useful on the mode of procuring them. 3265. Malt. As much of the quality of the beer must depend upon that of the malt, the safest plan is to go to a respectable dealer, on whose judgment and integrity confi- dence can be placed.