SOAP. tCHAr. III. 1079 3 Z 4 ^ water to separate from the soap, and to harden the latter, which floats at the top. The •fire is now withdrawn, and the mass left to cool. The watery part found at the bottom is removed by a pump. When this has been effected, the fire is re-kindled, and the soap : is re-melted and agitated with wooden poles, vmtil it has acquired the consistence proper for ladinn- into square moulds, in which the soap, after it has set and become solid, is cut into the proper shapes by a piece of brass wire. It is to be observed, that of late the ! boiling is often performed by means of steam. Manufacturers vary a little in the details of their process, and in the proportions of their materials. The lime which was added was . only for the purpose of robbing the alkali of its carbonic acid, and therefore does not enter : into the composition of the soap. In the south of Europe, where the olive grows, olive I oil is used for making soap instead of tallow. The soap itself is a compound of pure alkali with oil, fat, or tallow, and a portion of water. The very hard soap, made with all soda, is not the most convenient for use ; it is neither so fit for washing the hands, nor so easily reducible to the pulpy state for the i different manufactures in which it is employed. The hard white soap, made in some manufactories of taUow with a mixture of soda and potash, is much esteemed. It appears that soap cannot be made of a gi-eat variety of pro- portions in the ingredients, but that the proportions are what are termed definite, that is, fixed by natural laws ; so that in 100 parts of hard soap there are 60-94 parts of oil, 8-56 of soda, and 30-5 of water. If the alkali is potash instead of soda, then the proportions are 58-4 parts of oil, 12-3 of potash, and 29-3 of water; so that in general soap contams from 8 to 12 per cent of alkali, 58 of oil, and about 30 per cent, of water. Soaps, particularly the hard, are frequently reduced in value, by the fraudulent practice of keeping them wet ; by a nefarious management they are made to contain 60 per cent, instead of 30 of water. In this case they are found to lose weight rapidly by exposure to the air, a discovery often too late. 6448. Yellow hard soap. — This soap is formed of similar proportions of soda and tallow as the last, but it also contains resin, and sometimes palm oil, which is added to correct the smell of the rosin. In boiling the yellow soap, the resin, oil, and taUow are put into the boiler first, and the ley added when these are melted. The boiling, likewise, con- tinues a longer time, sometimes three weeks. The rest of the management is nearly the same as in the white soap. The resin makes the soap more detersive, and enables the manufacturer to sell it cheaper. Sometimes a portion of " kitchen stuff" is used with the tallow, but this is not so good. 6449. Soft or moliled soap. — This differs in its composition from the hard, in con- taining all potash instead of soda; and in this country whale or other fish oil is used with the potash, which makes a mass somewhat transparent, and of a yellow colour. Our soft soap is always interspersed with white specks, giving the whole a resemblance to the inside of a fig; these spots are produced by the addition of a little tallow, and they do not improve the soap, but habit renders them indispensable in the trade. There is no material difference in the process of boiling it from those of the other soaps. Soft soap was the first kind invented by the Germans, who made it of tallow and wood ashes, the latter containing potash. Soft soap made of colourless fat, such as tallow, is a white unctuous substance, about the consistency of lard. If the fat be coloured, the soap partakes of the colour ; and on the Continent it is the custom sometimes to add colouring ingredients. C-ISO. A very simple method of making soft soap is used m Canada, where wood ashes are abundant. The wood ashes are put into a barrel, and a ley is made by pouring water upon them ; this ley is then poured off, and four or five pounds of grease are added to it: any refuse grease may be collected for the purpose, as pot skimmings, rinds of bacon, scraps of suet, &c. The barrel with its contents, well stirred together, may then be placed in the yard, exposed to the sun and air. In course of time the ley and grease become incor- porated. If any fat swims upon the surface it is a proof thjjt there is not ley enough, and some more must be .idded ; if the mixture does not thicken, then soap does not form, and more fat must be added. Upon adjusting the proportions of these the thickening of the soap depends. This mode of making the soap will not be found very certain, if a good article be exi)ected ; but what is so made will do very well for the or- ainary purposes of washing. In this mode boiling is not employed. In making ley for soap of wood ashes, care should be taken to use none but the ashes of the hard woods, as oak, ash, maple, beech, &c. The resinous trees, as the pine and fir tribe, are bad for the purpose, and the ley will not unite with the fat. 6451. Hard soap is also made by making first a soft soap by tallow and a ley of potash, rendered caustic by quicklime; to this is added common salt (muriate of soda) or kelp ley, which contain both soda and muriate of soda; the muriatic acid of the common salt goes to tlie potash, forming muriate of potash, wliich is drawn off in the waste or spent ley ; while the soda unites with the fat and forms hard soap. Soft soap is therefore easily converted into hard soap by the addition of common salt in tlie manu- facture. 6452. Soap is the better for being kept some time; indeed, it should never be used when newly made, but, for economy, should lay by to harden slowly ; if dried too fast, it will crack.