ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. Book 1. 58 efifect. These are occasionally used here, but usually with a spring roller at the top, in a frame. Those termed by us Venetian blinds are made of a number of narrow slips of wood, hung horizontally, us fig. 48., so that when turned oneway, they touch each other, and fill up the whole opening; but when moved a little, the surfaces are inclined, and then the edges being apart, they admit the air, though they exclude the sun's rays: the laths are confined at their ends by frames in the reveals of the windows, and they draw up entirely into a box or cornice fixed at the top. Blinds of the same kind are often placed at the inside of the sash, and then they turn upon lines of tape ; but when they are upon the outside, a brass chain is employed, as being more durable. These are eifectual in keeping off the sun's rays. Shutter blinds are a cheaper kind, which serve both as Venetian blinds and outside shutters: they are made of strong laths or lufFer boards, either fixed in the frame, or turning all together by a lever handle, or pivots in the frame. When opened, they are fastened back like outside shutters. They are useful in windy situations, and where secu- rity is required. The latest improved blinds, and those now most generally used, ai-e the bonnet blinds, a, fig. 49. They are of striped cloth, fixed to an iron framing at bottom, and are made to rise, by a rather complicated system of cords and pulleys, into a case of wood at the top of the window, and which is gene- rally made ornamental. In these the sides are filled up, to exclude the oblique rays of the sun: 6 is the manner In which they are made for bedchamer apartments. SuBSECT. 12.—Bellhanging. 244. Bellhanging is performed by the smith, and requires great attention. A bell should ring with a very slight exertion of the hand; and it should ring a sufficient time, and not too long, so as to be sufficiently heard where the servants are placed. The bell itself (^fig. 50.) is fijced to an elastic spring, by which it vibrates on being pulled by the wire ; and there is another spring of spiral wire, to prevent the vibra- tion from being too great. The wires are carried round the angles of apartments by means of cranks, which are of various Fig. 50. kinds, to suit the external and internal angles. In some cases the wire or bell rope goes to the ceiling of the room ; but now usually only down from the surbase moulding, where it may be rung by a small brass lever, or some other con- trivance. The bell-wires are always of copper, as iron would decay by rust. 245. An improvement in the methodof disposing of bell-wires has been announced as practised in Edinburgh. Instead of causing the wires to go along beneath the cornices, and across partitions and passages, in the usual manner, till they reach the bells they are designed to pull, a plan is followed by which not a single wire is seen in any room in the house. From the top of the bell-pull in each apartment the wire is carried straight upward in a small tin tube sunk in the plaster, to the vacancy below the slates; here the wires of the whole house meet, and from thence descend in another tube, brandling off to their respec- tive bells. By this means each wire has only two cranks, or at most three, in its entire course : all boring of partitions is avoided ; and also the appearance of wires in the rooms. 246. It is convenient to arrange all the bells in the basement story in a line, each having the name of the apartment it belongs to ; for though in a small house, the servant knows eacli bell by its sound, yet when there are many, this may be difficult; but on going to the place where they are hung, it may be seen which bell has rung by something of the vibration being still visible. SuBSECT. 13. — Verandas and Balconies. 247. The Veranda is an ornamental addition borrotued from India, where the climate demands every assistance from shade. Althougli they are not equallj' necessary with us, yet they are often useful, and have an appearance extremely agreeable when tastefully attached to a countiy residence. They do not unite well with architectural decoration, but have this advantage, that of themselves they give an air of elegance to a house other- wise extremely plain. The framing is generally formed of wood painted ; and in case of being highly enriched with ornament, cast iron has been found botli durable and econo- mical. The roofs are painted oil cloth, sheet copper, zinc, or tinned iron painted. Care should be taken that the balconies are sufficiently strong, and securely fixed in the wall.