307 CuAP. XVI. GLASS. X 2 cut Inrn-er panes of good glass out of thera, on which account crown glass is sorted into firsts, seconds, and thirds, which vary in price according to the quality. This kind of glass is peculiar to England. 13.56. Broad or spread qlass is an inferior window glass, called also green window glass, and is made from somewhat less pure materials : fine sand 5 hushels ; kelp 11 bushels ; slacked lime 5 bushels. But the inferiority of these alkalies does not prevent them from dissolving the silica into a good glass, though less beautiful than the last kind. The carbonaceous matter, which would injure its colour, is chiefly burned out, and separated in the first process, calledafter which the materials are thrown into the melting pots. This glass, when of the commonest sort, has always more or less of a greenish tint from the iron which exists naturally in the ingredients, and it is liable to be altered by long exposure to the weather, particularly in places where noxious effluvia occur, such as sulphuretted hydrogen. This may be frequently perceived in old cottages, and other buildings where it has been used. At present this kind is little employed, the price being nearly the same as inferior crown, which is much preferable to it. It is, however, found particularly useful to glass stainers. The manner of making it is different from that of crown glass. The glass-blower having formed a hollow sphere by blowing, stops up the end of his tube through which he blew, and holds the hollow globe at the mouth of the furnace, when the air within the glass, expanding by the heat, bursts it in a rent, which is completed by shears. The glass is then flattened upon a table, and detached from the tube. The flattening cannot be performed very perfectly, which is the cause of many defects in the tables, which have usually a wrinkled surface. 1357. Plate glass is made in two modes. One kind is made by blowing; the other is by casting, or causing the glass to flow on a smooth table in the same manner as sheet lead. The materials for this kind of glass are very well selected, consisting of fine white sand, soda, and lime, the latter substance having likewise the quality of a flux. Soda is preferred to potash, because it makes the glass flow thinner. Parkes recommends the following proportions: — Lynn or Alum Bay sand 720 parts ; alkaline salt, containing 10 per cent, of soda, 450 ; quicklime 80 ; nitre 25 ; broken pieces of plate glass 425. 1358. Plate glass made by blowing is sometimes called British sheet glass. A globe is first formed as in the oitiinary processes; then this is, by rolling on a table and further heating and blowing, converted-into a cylinder, which is at length cut open by a pair of shears and laid out flat. The great weight of the glass prevents these from being made of a large size: plates that are blown cannot be properly made above forty-five, or at most fifty, inches in length, and with a proportionate breadth ; if made larger, they are too thin, and are besides liable to warp, which injures their value for mirrors, as they distort the objects viewed in them. 1359. Mirrors of glass were first manufactured by the Venetians, who long kept the art a secret. These glasses were blown, and they supplied all Europe, but by this process perfect glasses could not be produced more than fifty inches long. 1360. The best plate glass is made by casting. The art of casting glass was invented in France by Thevart, in 1688, and the manufactory established at St. Gobin still exists. A sufficient quantity for the plate required is melted in a vessel called a curvette: and a very solid table is provided, sometimes of iron, to cast the fluid glass upon. The curvette is brought by means of a crane to the table, which is surrounded by a low ledge, and the glass, after being poured out upon it, is smoothed and made of equal thickness while hot, by a hot roller that passes across from one ledge to another. The plate when cool is annealed, and squared by cutting with a diamond. The surface is then ground quite flat by flint powder and emery, and polished by crocus martis well washed. There is gi'eat difficulty in procuring large plates quite free from flaws, and when any are perceived after the plate is cast, it is diminished by taking off a part, and this, perhaps, may do for a smaller mirror ; but several castings may be required before they can procure one of the full size required. At present the principal manufactory of plate glass in this country is at Ravenhead near Prescot in Lancashire. The company to which this belongs is incorporated by charter, and mirrors are made equal to any in the world. Their ofiice is in Albion Street, Black- friars Bridge, London. The following table exhibits the sizes and prices of plate glass made by them. Dimensions. Snrfnce in square Inches. Price. Dimensions. Surface in square Inches. Price' £ t. rf. i «. d. 00 inches by 30 inches 1-800 10 10 1 100 inches by GO inches COOO G3 15 1 fiO — 40 _ ii'lOO IG 3 5 100 _ 70 — 7-000 80 8 2 fiO — .■iO _ 3 000 22 10 5 100 _ 80 — . 8 000 98 4 10 70 _ 50 _ S-.'jOO 28 7 8 132 _ 84 — 11-(188 20n 8 0 SO — SO — 4 000 .34 14 10 IGO _ 80 — 12-800 246 15 4 100 — 50 — 6-noo 48 n 8