COSMETICS. 1037 Chap. VIII. they "-ive the flesh colour, -which is more ruddy in some places than others, as upon the 01106145, from their greater size or number in that part ; and the want of healthy action in these vessels is indicated by paleness of complexion. In the skin there are likewise innumerable minute pores, by which the insensible perspiration exudes. Paints for the Face. 6137. Since this species of decoration, once so general, is now almost out of fashion, it is unnecessary for us to inveigh agamst it: whether there are not cases where the practice may stiU be allowable, we shaU not determine, but proceed to point out the materials that are usually employed, with cautions against such as are deleterious. 6138. Pearl white is a preparation of bismuth, which is sold under that name, but which is extremely injurious to the skin. It is also liable to turn black if exposed to the fumes of sulphur, or the sulphuretted hydrogen of certain mineral waters, such as the Harrow- gate. On this subject an anecdote is told. A lady thus painted was sitting in a lecture- room, where water impregnated with sulphuretted hydrogen was handed round for the examination of its odour. On smelling the liquid, the lady became black in the face. Every person was of course alarmed at the change, till the lecturer explained the cause of the accident. The lady received no serious injury, but had a salutary lesson. 6139. Ceruse, a white paint, was formerly much used, but now it is never employed, from its dangerous properties being known. It is a carbonate of lead, and the same as Jiake while or the jvhite lead used by painters. It is poisonous, and extremely pernicious to health when put on the skin ; it is also liable, when exposed to sulphuretted hydrogen, to turn black, and, of course, to produce lamentable accidents. It ought to be entirely excluded from the toilette. As an instance of ceruse turning black, as well as pearl white, may be mentioned, that in a receipt for changing the hair to black, it is directed to mix this with the pomatum. 6140. Pearl powder is the name of a cosmetic that was formerly much in request ; and from its name it ought to consist of pearls ground to powder ; but this would evidently be too expensive for common use. It is, we believe, made of Briangon or French chalk powdered fine, and perhaps mixed with pearl white, or bismuth ; and if the latter is added it will be liable to turn black. —(See " Pearl White.") The French chalk alone is harmless. 6141. Carmine is a well-known red paint, prepared by precipitating the colouring matter of cochineal upon alumina, and is perfectly harmless if genuine. Different quali- ties of carmine are sold in the shops, distinguished by numbers, and having, various prices. As the manufacture is in few hands, it is kept secret, and it is not well known what are the causes of these differences of colour; but they are supposed to be owing either to the greater quantity of alumina, or an adulteration by vermiUon. The latter is a poisonous substance, a preparation of mercury and sulphur, that ought in every form to be entirely excluded from the toilet. 6142. Cochineal is the red juice of an insect peculiar to Brazil, the Caccus Cacti, and carmine is prepared from it in the following manner : — Boil 1 lb. of cochineal powdered and 6 oz. of alum in 40 lb. of water; strain the decoction ; add 3SS. of chloride of tin, called dyers' spirit; and after the carmine has precipitated and settled, decant the liquid, and dry the carmine in a gentle heat. 6143. Rouge is a well-known red paint for the face, so named from the French word for red. There are several kinds of rouge, but they are all composed of some vegetable colour, and talc or powdered French chalk. The most common kind of rouge is produced from the colouring matter of the safHower {Curthamus tinctorins). The flowers are di- gested in a weak solution of carbonate of soda, which extracts the colour ; and to preci- pitate this in the form of a fine powder, lemon-juice or pure vinegar is added: but, pre- viously, some fine carded cotton wool is put into the vessel for the colour to be preci- pitated upon. The cotton is then washed in cold water, to separate some yellow colouring particles, and a fresh solution of carbonate of soda is poured upon it to take up the colour, now of a pure red. The colour is then precipitated again, by more acid, upon a layer of finely-powdered talc ; and afterwards it must be triturated with a few drops of olive-oil to give it smoothness and fatness. The fineness of the talc, and the propor- tions of the colouring matter, occasion the difference in the price of the article. 6144. Another kind of rouge is made by reducing French chalk to a fine powder, and triturating it in a mortar with carmine. As some makers of rouge sometimes add ver- milion to the carmine by way of adulteration, it will be well to apply a chemical test for that, as it is dangerous: if there be any considerable quantity, the weight will discover the adulteration, vermilion being a very heavy substance. Those who wish to make their own rouge may easily rub the Brian9on or French chalk in a mortar with good carmine. 6145. An inferior rouge is made by employing the colouring matter of Brazil wood