437 FISH. [Jbap. VI. F f 3 Sect. V. REPTILES. 2281. Of reptiles, though some are among the luxuries of the table, yet the greater number are of little value for this purpose ; and many are so disgusting in their appearance IS to excite a strong prejudice against them ; but none of them are known to be of a poisonous, or even unwholesome nature. Various species of turtle are well known. Of the lizards, the dracama and squana form excellent food ; and the frog supplies a favourite aish to our continental neighbours. The flesh of reptiles in general is delicate: the largest muscles are white, and contain a great deal of gelatinous substance : even serpents and snakes of all kinds, whether poisonous or not, are used as food by various nations. The poison of the serpent lies only in some receptacles attached to the fangs in the mouth ; if the head be cut off, the body is innocent food. The boa-constrictor is considered as a great delicacy: the rattlesnake is broiled like eels by the North American Indians. Viper broth is known among us, and was formerly recommended as a restorative, Uthough perhaps it is not superior in this respect to what is made from eels. 2282. Turth-—Of the genus testudo, some inhabit the sea, and are called turtle; others are named tortoises, and live on land, or in fresh water. There are several species of turtle used as food ; but the best and most celebrated is jailed the green turtle ( Testudo Myas, Linn.) from the colour of its fat. This turtle, so much orized as delicious food, is a very gentle and harmless animal, and sometimes grows to a great size, weighing from fifty pounds to five or six hundredweight, and measuring five or six feet in length. They abound in the seas of hot climates, particularly along the •oasts of Cochin China and the islands of the East and West Indies, and frequently ascend iihe mouths of rivers. At the Isle of Ascension fifty have been taken in a week. Turtles i:ire only calculated for swimming, the feet being so fomed as to resemble a kind of fins or .saddles, and they can move on land only with difiiculty ; nevertheless, they contrive to come on shore, and scratch holes in the sand to deposit their eggs, which they leave, after covering hhem up, to be hatched by the sun ; in about a mouth, the young ones come out and T.rawl to the water. The eggs are numerous, often amounting to above 100; and the fi'emale lays three times in a year: they are generally about the size of a small hen's egg, iDut sometimes much larger ; they are quite round, consisting only of a yolk inclosed in a ■oft skin like parchment, are very delicious, and are highly esteemed. One of the usual iinodes of taking the turtle is by turning them on their back when they come on shore, r.rom which position they cannot recover themselves without great difficulty. They are likewise caught while lying asleep on the surface of the water, and sometimes they are ;!truck with the harpoon. Turtle comes to us from the West Indies, some of the ships being provided with proper ccommodations to permit them being brought alive and in tolerable health; but fre- .uently they become emaciated during the long voyages, and then are very inferior for Dup. There are various modes of cooking this excellent and nutritious food : one of Ime most usual methods in the West Indies, and perhaps the most wholesome, is to dress liae flesh by boiling or frying like a beef steak. It is also stewed ; and made into the a'ell known turtle soup, for which we refer to Book XIII. " Receipts in Cookery." What . called the green fat of the turtle is in fact not fat, but a gelatinous substance like the kiin of a calfs head, or the tendons of the heel: that which forms part of the upper shield f F the animal is called callipash by the cooks ; and what belongs to the lower shield is the dlipee. These are considered as the 6o7i?ie 6o?(c/je of the turtle. The flesh of the turtle ! seldom dressed in the London taverns in any other way than in soup ; occasionally as -steak. Turtle soup, as it is usually prepared here, is apt to disagree with dyspeptics. Turtle is often a valuable addition to the live stock at sea; and the flesh may be salted id pre.served a long time ; in this state it is much used in the West Indies and America. tike other oviparous animals turtles are best in season when beginning to lay their eggs ; ose which are full of eggs are reckoned the finest; after this they are out of season, he introduction of this animal into England, as an article of luxury, is of no very slant date, and can perhaps scarcely be traced further back than about 70 or 80 years. .2283. The loggerhead turtle {Testudo Caretta, Linn.) is often larger than the green rtle, and its shell is beautifully coloured, but too thin for manufacture. It is a strong d fierce animal, and even dangerous : it is found in the Mediterranean, but its flesh is arse and rank. 2284. The elegant substance known by the name of tortoise-shell is made from the shell of variety of turtle called the hawksbill or imbricated turtle, which is a native of the ;iatic seas, but found, though much more rarely, in the Atlantic, and even in the -'diterranean. Its general length is about three feet, and the shell is formed in scales It lap over each other like the tiles of a iiouse. The flesh is said to produce fever and