1080 ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. Book XXII. 64o3. A mixture of pipe clay with soap has been long employed in various parts of the Continent as an economical substance for washing, producing, it is said, by its mecha- nical action, a saving of part of the soap. Lately a soap has been made here called silica soap, by combining fat or oil with silicate of potash, the latter being produced by boiling flints calcined and ground in caustic ley. But this is not, as some suppose, an increase of the actual soap made by means of the flints, but is to be considered rather as flint powder mixed with soap ; accordmgly it is a harsh kind of soap ; its superior detergent quality. It It possess any, being owing only to the mechanical agency of the flint powder, in the same way as the pipe clay above mentioned ; and it would probably prove very destruc- tive to linen washed with it. It ought, indeed, to be understood, that the mixture of sihca or clay with soap is an adulteration, and not an improved kind, neither of these materials combining with the alkali, so as to produce soap. It has been stated in a report to the Commissioners of Excise, that though a pound of this adulterated soap may cost only 4^d., while an equal quantity of good soap will cost 6d., yet that 4 lbs. of the latter will go as far as 5 lbs. of the former. 6454. Ball soap, commonly used in the north, is made from lees with ashes and tallow. The lees are put into the copper, and boiled till the watery part is quite gone, and there remains nothing in the copper but a sort of saline matter (the very strength or essence of the ley) ; to this the tallow is put, and the copper is kept boiling and stirring for above half an hour, in which time the soap is made, and then it is put out of the copper into tubs or baskets, with sheets in them, and immediately, while soft, made into balls. It requires nearly twenty-four hours to boil away the watery part of the lees. 6455. 77(6 alkaline lixivia, or soap lees, that is, the solutions of alkali alone, are capable of dissolving oils more efi'ectually than soap, and are sometimes employed for the same purposes; but, as we have stated, from their great causticity, they are capable of destroy- ing many substances to which they might be applied, as sUk, wool, &c., whereas soap cleanses from oil almost as effectually as pure alkali without any such danger. Those soaps which contain the largest portion of alkali, being the strongest or most detersive, act likewise most upon the skin, which is the property of the common brown hard soap, and still more of the soft soap used in the common business of the wash-house. The fine hard white soaps are preferred for the toilette. 6456. TTie manufacture of soap in London first began in 1524; before which time this city was served with white soap from foreign countries ; and the grey soap, speckled with white, from Bristol, sold for a penny a pound, and black soap cost only a half-penny the pound. 6457. Soap suds, too often thrown away, even from large mills and manufactories, it is useful to know, are found highly beneficial as manures,' particularly when mixed up and blended into composts with other materials. The farmers in some places understand this, and collect them, paying from Gd. to Is. per hogshead ; they are found valuable for putting upon meadows. Where there is much washing, it would be well to collect and preserve this liquid manure in a tank. What is called soapers' waste, in the soap manu- factories, is particularly important as manure. 6458. Potatoes have been tried with some success for washing instead of soap. The first account we have of this method is from Cadet de Vaux, a French chemist; and a proces verbal was published by M. Hericard de Thury of experiments made in the hospitals in Paris. The linen was put to soak for half an hour ; then it was slightly washed, and put into a vessel with warm water ; each article was then rubbed on both sides with potatoes three parts cooked, in the same manner as if they were pieces of soap. MTien the whole had been thus well rubbed, it was put into the copper and boiled for half an hour; after •which it was taken out again, rubbed, beat, and turned and pressed in all directions, and again plunged for some minutes in waVm water, and afterwards rinsed. The linen is said to have been made perfectly white, while the expense and labour were less than by the ordinary method. A modification of this process is used here by the scourers. See " Scouring," Chap. XI. Book XXII. 6459. A plant called soap wort, belonging to a family named by botanists Saponaria, and which contains a good deal of alkali, is used in some places instead of soap, by making a decoction of the leaves and flowers to wash stuffs. 6460. liice water is employed in India for washing cottons and muslins. CHAP. IV. WATER FOR WASHING. 64C1. The quality of waicrnsed for washing is a circumstance of the first importance in the process. In Chap. 1. Book Vlil. " On Water," we explained the nature and properties