HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. inAP. VI. 39 Talis, to equalise the pressure, and tie the whole together ; for brickwork alone, as it is utecuted in modern days, would not be sufficient. A good deal of the strength of the rails depends upon the bond timber being in sufficient quantity, and properly placed, na cheap houses, built on speculation, the builder is apt to be too scanty in this part of boe work ; and sometimes the timber is not of the best quality ; when it decays, the safety ff the brickwork is endangered. Bond timber is seldom requisite, and is not desirable, 11 the basement story : in the parlour story there are generally two or three tiers of and the timber is cut so as to agree with the thickness of the bricks. Pieces of this nond timber, or of oak, called loood bric/cs, are also sawed into short lengths, or that of a brick, and inserted in various parts of the walls, for the purpose of nailing parts of the joiner's •ork to; where that is neglected, it is frequently necessary to drive strong wooden plugs into ae wall to supply the want; but this is apt to shake and loosen the wall. Besides the egular bond timber, timbers of larger size or scantling are laid at the top of each story, 3 receive the joists of the story above it. These are termed wall plates; and care should ■e taken that each tier is united together so as to form an entire chain round the building, xxcept where the chimney flues come ; and hhat they are properly secured at the corners, rrhe bond timbers are carried across the 7indows at first, and are not cut out, until hhe carcass is thoroughly dry, and the walls flome to their proper bearing. 140. Floor timbers. — In England floors r.re almost always made of wood, and are iinipported by beams calledjow^s. At the com- ililetion of each story by the bricklayer, the 'sarpenter puts down the various timbers of lihe floor, technically called the nakedflooring. ^rhese consist of various arrangements ac- cording to the degree of strength required, »und the size of the apartments. When the ip,partments are small, single flooring may be •r.ufficient. This consists of joists usually i»welve inches apart, simply laid from one wall 'no another, flg. 34., or to a partition, their ;x'nds resting on the wall plates ; the flooring ?<)oards being nailed upon the upper edges of hhe joists, and the ceiling on the lower. The Ideptli of the joists is made several times their hhickness, for greater strength, but the latter 7 Fig. 34. ;hould never be less than two inches. « and 6 are the trimming joists, a little sto uter than the rest, 'loreceivethetrimmerc,that supports oneend bf the brick arch called the brick trimmer, as has been already explained under chim- iiieys. This kind of floor may be made con- iiiderably stifier and stronger, if required, by loutting stmts between the joists in the man- tier shown in the section d e. These struts are short pieces of wood about an inch thick and three inches wide, nailed on to the joists, and ranged in straight lines across the floor, 9S at / y and h i, the distances between the rows being about five or six feet. In this kind of flooring the ceiling is apt to crack. 4 Z is a perspective view of a portion of this [floor. 141. Doubleflooring\ssuperiortosingle,in not letting the sound pass through so easily : and being better for the ceilings. They are formed by first laying down beams across, from wall to wall, called binders, a b and c d, which carry the joists, then termed bridying joists, see fly. S.'j. plan, section ef, and per- spective view y h. The binders "arc usually placed about six feet apart: the ceiling joists, on which the laths for the plastered ceiling are nailed, arc lot into tliese. 112. Double framed flooriny.—Fig. 36, ,ll 1 i '11 «L P H -Jl 1 L m 'Ml \ d 1 1 ^11 1 f;LL 1 ^'n 1 m 1 ^\ 1 .1 ti 1 1 1 1 li-;