PRACTICE OF VENTILATION. 11 JAP. II. Ill ssily discoverable. In this manner air may be contaminated if shut up, an effect which, Heed, usually takes place, it being the great receptacle for a variety of invisible effluvia! I Id vapours that rise from the earth, or from surrounding substances. The most prudent Aug, therefore, is not to use air that has been long pent up, but to change it for the fresh rr of the atmosphere. ■1497. It has been imagined that fire has the power of purifying air by burning and de- rfoying the noxious particles with which it may be contaminated ; and as a remnant of >is idea still exists in the minds of some persons, it is necessary to show the fallacy of it. ;nre, instead of purifying air hy burning any thing in it, actually vitiates the air which tis passed through it, as we have shown, by its abstracting the only portion of the air uat is useful in supporting life: burnt air, therefore, or what has gone thi-ough the fire, l^ stead of being purified, is rendered poisonous. What has led to this error, has been the ^serving that the air of confined places is often improved by lighting a fire in them; imt this improvement is solely owing to the current or circulation of air that is produced, Md the consequent introduction of fresh air: if the fire was made in a confined place, hhere no change or current of air could happen, as in a room without a chimney, so far oom purifying the air, it would render it doubly noxious. ■ 498. Fumigating pastiles, are preparations formed of odoriferous resins and other ilibstances to be burned in an apartment to perfume the air, either as a luxury, or to vvercome some disagreeable odour. It was supposed, formerly, that the burning of rcomatic, resinous, and balsamic substances, had the property of purifying tainted air, nad destroying contagious miasma; but they are now considered as whoUy inefiicacious mr this purpose, and though they may conceal ofl^ensive exhalations, and render them ^jss discoverable by the senses, they offer only a deceitful security. Various mixtures rre employed for making pastiles ; but they all contain charcoal mixed with fragrant uaterials, as benzoin, balsam of Peru, storax, gum benjamin, oil of cloves, and nutmegs, niyrrh, nitre, mastich, labdanum, &c.; and though these odoriferous gums produce an ggreeable perfume, yet the vapours of the charcoal, instead of purifying the air, tend to iiacrease its unwholesomeness by giving out carbonic acid. 499. Since when air has lost that constituent by which it supports life, there are no means i f restoring it, it follows that our only resource is to get rid of the foul air, and to replace I; by what is fresh and good. The mode of effecting this necessary change of the air of i'partments constitutes properly what is termed "ventilation," a term derived from the Latin <ford signifying wijid, the motion or current of air furnishing the most obvious method H'f accomplishing this object. 500. Before we proceed, we must beg the reader's attention to what we have stated respecting Ihe air being a substance as much as any otherfluid; and that we cannot possibly cause any li ir to go out from a room, except an equal quantity come in at another opening : for it is 1 law of nature, that every place which, in common language, is said to be empty, is, and tiQust be, always/u/Z of air : if we were to draw the air out from an apartment through inome aperture, by means of a machine, more air from without would force itself in by nineans of the whole pressure of the atmosphere to supply its place, if not through an equal iipperture, yet through all the innumerable minute crevices that exist in the walls, doors, »\rindows, floor, &c.; and if these were absolutely tight, so that no air could come in, then ii t would be impossible for any air to go out. This fact is sometimes evinced in the bad diraught of a chimney of a small apartment in which the work has been very well executed, I i)r well finished, as it is called ; that is, with all the joints very close, so as to let in no lidraughts. The reason of this is obvious ; though air that has served the combustion has hoeen rendered lighter by the heat, and therefore has a strong tendency to go up the chimney, ;vet it cannot move and be succeeded by more air to the fire, except an equal quantity of aair can enter the room by some openings, large or small, to supply its place, otherwise ihhe room would be emptied of air by such a current making its exit: but nature has willed tlhat every place must be full of air; hence the absolute necessity for openings in some part I t)f the room for the admission of fresh air, in order that a fire may bum. This necessity iss generally overlooked by those who are unacquainted with the philosophy of this subject, ikhe material nature of air, and the manner in which it presses in to fill every space. It is inn vain therefore to think of stopping up every crevice capable of occasioning a draught: ai draught m»«< exist where afire of any kind burns in an apartment: and the study nmust be to contrive that the air shall be admitted where and how it will be the least in- i convenient. .501. Where afire is burning in the chimney of an apartment, n certain degree of ventilation is going on constantly, and must go on, of itself, without the thought or attention of any I'person; and this, as we have stated above, is an immense advantage in open chimney fire- nplaces, which, it is desirable, should be properly imderstood and appreciated. It is obvious ithat the current of air, necessary to feed the fire, produces a continual change of all that ipart of the air which is below the level of the mantle ; but this cannot happen without a [partial change at least of what is above that level ; for, as we observed, the air vitiated