Chap. IX. FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. 493 the end of December. They are not ripe till the spring. Though the name of China is attached to it, it is doubtful whether it was originally a Chinese fruit; and it has been supposed by some classical commentators that the golden apples of the Hesperides were the orange. 2708. The best come from St. MichaeCs, in the Azores, where they were mtroduced by the Portuguese ; but very good ones are brought from Portugal, Spain, and Malta : some also grow in the south of France and Italy, but they are inferior. The orange tree may be mentioned as an instance of extraordinary fecundity ; a single tree at St. Michael's has been known to bear in a season 20,000 oranges fit for packing, exclusive of those damaged and wasted, amounting to at least one third more. The de- lightful perfume of an orange grove is such as to scent the air for miles, and the tree gives a succession of flowers during the whole summer. Magnificent conservatories have been erected for them in coimtries where they do not bear the cold of winter. The first orange trees were brought to England by Sir Walter Raleigh: at Hampton Court there are some said to be 300 years old ; these, and also some at Windsor, are kept in greenhouses during the winter, and are wheeled into the open air about the middle of June, when the perfume of their flowers is delicious. In point of age these are far surpassed by those at Cordova, in Spain, the seat of ancient Moorish grandeur ; some trees there are said to be six or seven hundred years old. In Devonshire, and in other parts of England, they have produced fine fruit when trained against walls and sheltered with mats. At Mr. Pugh's villa, at Rouen, there is a collection of a hundred orange trees in boxes above seventeen feet high, and several centuries old; in winter they are kept under cover. In 1823 these produced 1,400 lbs. of blossoms, which sell, on an average of years, at 2s. Ad. per pound, for the purpose of making orange flower water. 2709. The agreeable sub-acid of the oravge renders it one of the most agreeable, cooling, and wholesome of fruits ; and the essential oil in the rind is serviceable to the cook in giving flavour to many dishes. 2710. The varieties of the orange are numerous; but the most important, as enumerated by Professor Burnett, are : — 1. The common sweet orange; 2. the China ; 3. the Majorca; 4. the Nice; 5. the Genoa; 6. the thick-rinded Portugal; 7. the tea-fruited; 8. the double-flowered; 9. the ribbed; 10. Malta, or blood-juiced; 11. the St. Michael's; and, 12. the Oporto, or pipless pot oranges. 2711. It is observed in the Library of Enteriaining Knowledge : — " The extraordinary consumption of a production wliicb is broiiRlit liere from very distant places, is a natural consequence of certain qualities which fit the orange, in a reinarkal^Ie degree, for being the universal fruit of commerce. If we would have foreign figs and grapes, they must be dried, for the undried grapes, which we bring even from the short distance of IPortugal, are flat and vapid ; the tamarind is a liquid preserve ; the guava must be made into a jelly ; the mango des- tined for us requires to be pulled before it is ripe, and is pickled ; the date must be dried ; and the cocoa-nut becomes, when here, consolidated and indigestible. With regard to the orange, man may have it fresh in every region of the world, and at almost every season of the year. The aromatic oil and tlie rind preserve it from the effects both ol^heat and cold ; and the acridity of the former renders it proof against the attacks of insects. It is true that oranges rot, like other fruits ; but that does not happen for a long time, if the rind is uninjured and they are kept from moisture, and so ventilated as not to ferment." SuBSECT. 2.— Seville Orange (Citrus vxdgaris). 2712. This variety, called also the bitter orange, is of the same species as the sweet orange, and grows in great abundance on the banks of the Guadalquivir in Andalusia, from which they are chiefly obtained. In that part of Spain there are very extensive orchards of these oranges, which foi-m the chief wealth of the monasteries. The pulp of the bitter orange is not eaten raw ; in the yellow rind, separated from the white spongy substance immediately below it, there is contained an essential oil, which is an agreeable warm aromatic, much superior for many purposes to that of the common orange. The best marmalade and the richest wine is made from this orange, and it is from the flowers' of this that the best orange flower water is distilled. They are also preserved whole as a sweetmeat. SuBSECT. 3—Lemon {Citrus Limonum). • 2713. The lemon or citron tribe are natives of Asia, and appear to have been well known to the Romans: they are mentioned by Virgil and Pliny, but only as foreign fruit, and as antidotes against poison. It does not appear that they cultivated them. The citron is found wild in that part of India which is beyond the Ganges ; also in Assyria and Persia, and was brought into Europe by the Arabians. It is now abundant in the south of France, Italy, Spain, and the West Indies. The lemon is hardier than the orange. In some parts of Devonshire lemon trees are trained to the walls, and require no more than a covering of straw or mats during the winter. Earl Paulet presented some of these lemons to George III. upwards of fifty years ago, \vhich grew in the garden of his sister. Lady Bridget Buttord. They were first cultivated in this country in the reign of James L, and are now not uncommon in our green houses. 2714. The fruit in common use, however, is imported from Spain, Portugal, and the