412 ON FOOD. Book VII. 2141. The tern shell-fisli, though still retained in popular language, is not at present employed by naturalists. It includes the Crustacea: or crustaceous animals, as lobsters crabs, shrimps, &c. and the Molluscce or soft animals. Of the Mollusca;, some are covered with a hard outer shell, in one or two pieces, and are named univalves, as the perriwinkle, or bivalves, as the oyster; or they are entirely naked, having no shell, as the Medusae, Sepia, &c. The Crustacea; contain numerous species and varieties' in different parts of the world; but we have only a few in our seas. Animals with shells abound with us, but only a few are large enough to be worth eating. Of the naked Mol- lusca;, none are used in this country as food, though the Sepia or cuttle fish is eaten m the south of France. Most shells consist entirely of carbonate of lime (the same as chalk), connected together in layers with a little animal matter resembling albumen: hence'shells will burn to a very pure lime. The interiors of many shells are lined with a pearly matter called nacre, which is sometimes extremely beautiful, particularly in mother-of-pearl. Pearls, which are found in certain shells, are nothing more than concretions of this sub- stance, which is also carbonate of lime. 2142. It is said that living too much upon fish is apt to give rise to cutaneous eruptions: and this Dr. Paris considers as not improbable, particularly in hot climates. The oily principle upon which the odour of fish depends is absorbed into the blood, when this kind of food is taken, as is evident from the peculiar flavour of sea-fowl that live upon fish. Even the hogs that in Cornwall have access to pilchard have often a fishy flavour : and from the sympathy between the stomach and the skin, it is not unlikely that the oily fat fish may have a tendency to produce cutaneous derangement. Thus many facts appear to point out the propriety of changing our food occasionally. It has been conjec- tured that the priests of Egypt were prohibited from eating fish to avert the leprosy, which was supposed to be induced by living too much upon it; in the same manner that it is thought the Jewish legislator interdicted the use of pork fi-om his belief in its unwholesomeness. 2143. The supply offish in the seas round Britain is not only abundant, but inex- haustible ; and yet, notwithstanding this, and the encouragement given by government, the fisheries have not proved so profitable as might have been expected. There is little filsh consumed in the interior of the kingdom ; and though in London immense quantities are annually made use of, " there can be no doubt," observes Mr. M'Culloch, in his valuable Dictionary of Commerce, " that the consumption would be much greater were it not for the abuses in the trade, which render the supply comparatively scarce, and, in most instances, exceedingly dear." " That this harvest," says Mr. Barrow, " ripe for gathering at all seasons of the year, without the difficulty of tillage, without expense of seed or manure, without the payment of rent and taxes, is inexhaustilDle, the extraordinary fecundity of the most valuable kinds of fish would alone afford abundant proof. To enumerate the thousands, and even millions, of eggs which are impregnated in the herring, the cod, the ling, and indeed in almost the whole of the esculent fish, would give but an inadequate idea of the prodigious multitudes in which they flock to our shores ; the shoals themselves must be seen, in order to convey to the mind any just notion of their aggregate mass." As the fisheries, and the various circumstances connected with them, are managed at present, the supply of fish is extremely uncertain, which causes a glut at one time, while at another there is scarcely any to be had. The cause of this is obvious. Fish are extremely changeable in their places of resort, and they will leave their accus- tomed haunts for long periods without our being able to ascertain the reason ; nor do we know all the causes of their migration. Fish also require great care in packing and transportation, as they soon spoil. So far it is easy to perceive some of the physical difficulties over which we have no control. But stiU a question remains, whether all the means are employed which might enable us to enjoy all the advantages of our insular situation, and the abundance with which we are surrounded. But already we see reason to hope that the time is not far distant when the modem improvements will extend to this subject. Before steam navigation, a large proportion of the salmon sold in the London market could not have been brought fresh, and a contrary wind frequently rendered a cargo unfit for sale. By the railways fresh fish will be conveyed daily to inland towns which now receive a supply only two or three times a week, or less fre- quently. Already the inhabitants of Birmingham have benefited in this respect by the Grand Junction Railway, which gives them access to the Liverpool fish market, and salmon brought to London from Scotland by the steam vessels have reached that place by the same railway. The want of inland conveyances has hitherto deprived the country of the advantage of the extraordinary quantities of fish that have been occasionally caught. Even of cod-fish one ton and a quarter have been taken at a time in one boat. Of mackerel the haul has been sometimes so great that it could scarcely be disposed of, and pilchards and sprats are often obliged to be used as manure for want of sale. The means of conveying these to inland districts must produce at times a seasonable supply of food in future.