iJhap. II. 359 OF ANIMAL FOOD. CHAP. n. OF ANIMAL FOOD. Sect. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 1744. Our object in the following pages will be to give a popular, tod, in some degree I. cliemical, description of all tbe various substances generally employed in this kingdom L«s food. As our intention in introducing the reader to the subject of chemistry is at •present merely to enable him to understand clearly the nature of the several materials li-hich are employed in the culinary art (and which, without some little knowledge of tihemistry, we contend is impossible), we shall confine ourselves strictly to so much of hhat science as we consider essentially necessary. Although we do not hesitate to believe hhat excellent dishes are every day prepared and enjoyed by many persons who have no I irish to enter into our subject in the way we propose, yet we cannot doubt that there are Jrlso many who are desirous of having a more enlarged view than is usually entertained of liae nature of food, and that this species of knowledge will be found not only entertaining, iiiut of real vjilue. 1745. We shall not here enter into the classification of animals adopted by naturalists. rrhose who are desirous of understanding this may consult works on natural history. •Our object being solely to treat of such animals as are employed among us for food, we hball only observe that they may be considered as divided into, 1. land quadrupeds ; .. birds; 3. fishes, including the erustaceous inhabitants of the sea; 4. reptiles ; .. insects. 1746. As a general laiv, almost all animal substances may be safely eaten; some are said 1) be poisonous, but these are confined to a few fish and insect tribes, — animals that are iimong the lowest in the scale of organisation. It is not difficult to give substantial reasons or our preference of particular animals as food ; yet the accounts of travellers supply us rith much curious infoi'mation respecting the customs of various nations. I Dr. Johnson has remarked — " It is not very easy to fix the principles upon which mankind have agreed eat some animals and reject others ; and as this principle is not evident, it is not uniform. That which ! selected as delicate in one country is by its neighbours abhorred as loathsome. The Neapolitans lately ^f:fused to eat potatoes in a famine. An Englishman is not easily persuaded to dine on snails with an Italian, n frogs with a Frenchman, or on horse-flesh with a Tartar. The inhabitants of Skye hold not only eels, uut purk and bacon, in abhorrence." From habits, probably, each nation acquires an artificial taste for what they have been fccustomed to in early youth, and food the most disagreeable to one becomes delicious to aaother. Legislative enactments, also, have prohibited the use of certain qiiadrupeds as food; tiad this has been through prudential motives not always easy to trace. Thus pork was Drbidden to the Jews, and in this country we never eat the flesh of the horse ; but pork ' esteemed by us, while horse-flesh is not only particularly prized by the Tartar nations, uut is said not to be despised even by the artificers of a neighbouring kingdom ; it is not eery palatable, but there is nothing unwholesome in it more than in beef or mutton. Although the various species of land quadi-upeds, and the different parts of them, vary wnsiderably in their flavour and nutritious qualities, yet there is no part of them that nay not be safely used as food, and that is not, indeed, occasionally eaten in some parts of i.ie world. The muscles or flesh is, of course, the most important part; but all the rest, 1 le skin, the blood, the fat, and even the entrails, are equally capable of afibrding whole- ome nutriment, where the animals have not been diseased. The bones themselves are JDt neglected, a considerable portion of them consisting of nutritious matter. With us lae following animals are never eaten ; viz., horses, dogs, cats, mice, rats, eagles, vultures, I wens, and some others, yet all of them are used as food in some country or other. In ating these facts, we are not recommending such animals to the palates of our country- en, our object being merely to explain whether or not they are absolutely imwholesome ■ injurious. Prejudices, being the result of ignorance, cannot be useful, and theii sstruction is all we aim at. Sect. IL uamination of the various parts of animals with a view to their employment AS FOOD. SuBSECT. 1.— General Remarks. 11747. We do not propose here to enter into a description of the anatomical structure of i: imals, and we shall consider them as having passed through the operations which render em applicable to the purposes of the culinary art. A a 4