i Chap. III. BREWING. 583 ibeer bright at last The yeast collected by skimming should be put into a larger vessel I than is necessary to hold it at first, as it will swell a little ; it will contain a quantity of ! beer, which will separate from it by suffering the mixture to stand for a day or two; I this beer may be added to what has been fermented, and the yeast may be kept for : another brewing, and for baking. It has been stated that the heat of the fermentation regularly increases while it is going I on; at first very slowly, but at last more rapidly before it declines. While the heat ■ continues to increase, which can be ascertained by the thermometer, we may be certain 1 that the vinous fermentation is not over; but when the heat no longer increases, the fer- 1 mentation is probably complete, and then the smell of the ale may be perceived. When I the fermentation is at its height, on holding the nose below the edge of the fermenting I tub, the fixed air disengaged will strike extremely sharp, so as to sting the nostrils ; but :at the close of the fermentation the strength of the gas diminishes considerably, so as to I feel only just wann in the nostrils. The ale will then be found to have acquired its I proper taste and smell; the head of yeast will be uniform and compact; and there should I be no sweet taste. Should the fennentation not go on so well as could be wished, the 1 reader must refer to the article " Fermentation," Sect. III., under " Principles of Brew- ; ing," with a view to discover the cause and the remedy. 3288. It is an essential point to know the precise time when the fermentation has been I carried far enough, but no general rule can be given that will apply in all instances; it I must vary according to circumstances, and here experience is necessary. Attention is to i be paid to the head of yeast. This, when the fermentation is brisk, begins to turn ! speedily of a brown colour, and compact consistence, so that it would fall back into the i beer; at that period the fermentation is nearly complete. If the beer is intended to be what is called hard, the fermentation must be continued the longer; but if the beer is ■ -wanted to be brisk, the fermentation is stopped the sooner. 3289. Particulars of this kind steadily kept in view, with a little practice, and ordinary I powers of observation, will enable any one to brew; but after all the directions that can be given, a certain degree of practice with skilful persons is necessary. 3290. Some allow the fermentation to go on a Utile longer than others; but it must not be . completed in the fermenting tun, otherwise the beer would soon be quite flat and sour. When it sends up very few air bubbles, but before it has quite ceased working, the liquor, now beer, is to be transferred into casks where the fermentation is finished. The fermenting tub may be uncovered for an hour or two before the beer is transferred to the • casks, or tunned, as it is called. The beer may be run off by the cock, when the yeast will remain behind ; or the yeast may be removed from the top with a large flat skim- mer or ladle with holes. Great care should be taken that none of the yeast finds its way into the casks, which would endanger a fresh fermentation more considerable than is required. 3291. The fermentation is now to be completed by the sloiv process in casks, called by the brewers cleansing, when a great deal of yeast and sediment works out of the casks that other- wise would prevent the beer from keeping. The casks or barrels, which are supposed to have been perfectly well cleaned, are placed upon low stands about afoot high, called a ^i'ffions, with their bungs leaning a little on one side. They are filled from the fermenting tub by means of a funnel; and in general, the beer is suffered to be quite cold before this is done. The casks are placed in the cellar, into which the. beer may be brought down in buckets, or sent down by a pipe, and they may be kept leaning on their stands by means of wedges or pieces of brick, so that the wort that works out may run into pans placed below. It is essential to the cleansing, that the casks should be kept always quite full, otherwise the yeast will not run off, and then the beer will not be transparent. To effect this, every day as the yeast works out, they are filled up again by some beer which was reserved for this purpose from the fermenting vat. When the casks are filled up, a few strokes with a mallet on the hoops will cause some bubbles of air to escape, and leave room for a little more beer to be added. This cleansing of the beer may take a week or a fortnight; and what beer has run out, after being sepa- rated from the yeast, may be returned into the ca.sk again. The pans placed to receive the yeast should be cleaned daily. If the beer works briskly, the filling up of the casks should be done every two or three hours at least for the flrst ten or fifteen hours ; after that term, the slow fermentation will probably in some degree subside, and they need not be filled up so often. 3292. When this second fermentation is over, and no more yeast works out, the casks must be righted, or placed with their bung holes at top, and secured in this situation by blocks. If the fermentation, instead of being as slow as is proper, is too considerable, it is some- times found necessary to rack off the ale into other casks; but this is not favourable to its preservation. 3293. The casks are now to he bunged up close. A bit of linen is put round the bung, and it is hammered in tight; the vent pegs are also to be put in, but they should be opened occasionally for a few minutes to allow the gas to escape ; for though a certain portion of this is essential to the briskness of the beer, yet too much will prevenf its fininp P p 4