I HAP. I. ON LIGHT AND FLAME. 119 , 532. Vinegar is certainly useful; and although its disinfecting properties are perhaps ,Bry small, yet it is at least very refreshing in a sick-room, both to the invalid and the n:tendants, in overcoming the unpleasant odour usually prevalent. It is either sprinkled vs-er the floors, or the vapour is produced by pouring vinegar upon a hot iron. For this arpose, aromatic vinegar and Thieve's vinegar are thought to be preferable, as they con- i iin a little camphor and aromatic oils. 533. To destroy the disagreeable effluvia from sewers, privies, and similar places, quick- lime alone, or mixed with lees of ashes, or soapy water that has been used in washing, laay be thrown down into the sink of the privy. This is much employed in hot coun- •i'ies in places where putrifying matter is collected, to prevent its dangerous effect upon we atmosphere, which would produce disease. But, as we have already observed, ooxious effluvia from all underground places should be prevented by properly-constructed reaps. BOOK IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. CHAP. I. ON LIGHT AND FLAME. Sect. I. HISTORICAL REMARKS. 534. Artificial light is probably as ancient as the human race or the use of flr« ; but the rrmeans employed to produce it among savage tribes have scarcely advanced beyond burn- inng branches of trees or splinters of wood. Torches were probably an improvement upon Ibhese; and lamps, even of the simplest kind, display a great advance in refinement, rc-equiring a combination of contrivances, such as the preparation of oil, a vessel to hold it, aand a proper substance for the wick. It is not a little remarkable, that the ancient nations who evinced such skill and taste inn several of the elegant arts, should have made no improvement in the simplest kind of laamp, except that of its form. Although antique lamps have been found in Herculaneum, FPompeii, and other places, of almost infinite variety, made of baked clay or of bronze, fr'rom the most simple forms to those of the most studied description, exhibiting a surpris- iang variety of designs, and admirable for the beauty of their workmanship, yet the prin- cciple of the lamp scarcely varies from what must have been the original contrivance— aan open vessel, with a wick laid in the oil. The light which these supplied must have hbeen weak and unsteady; and, as there were no means for destroying the smoke, this nmust have been annoying in closed apartments, when the oil was bad. The lamp was ^sometimes suspended; and, occasionally, was placed upon that elegant piece of furniture — the candelabrum or stand, of which some of the most beautiful forms in marble and bbronze are still preserved. 535. Simple as is the contrivance of candles, tliey do not appear to have been generally Umown to the ancients, who continued long to make use of the lamp only. We read, how- tevcr, of a species of candles sometimes used among the Romans, made of strings of ipapyrus, or rushes, dipped in pitch and surrounded with wax. Wax and tallow candles "were, according to Pliny, likewise occasionally employed in religious offices. Torches land flambeaux were used at all times: and in the early part of the modern period we find ithat, at great entertainments, halls were lighted up, not only with lamps, but with flam- rbeaux held in the hands of domestics kept for the purpose. Froissart, in describing the rmagnificence of the Count de Foix, states, that he had twelve torches held by twelve ^valets in his hall. These were afterwards superseded by the invention of candlesticks. I In the twelfth century, candles of wax, and chandeliers, were generally seen in churches; and, as refinement increased, they came gradually into use among the nobility and wealthy all over Europe, as did those of tallow among the middle classes. The discovery of Argand, by wliich the smoke of lamps was destroyed, produced a new era in artificial : illumination; and these implements, which had long been laid aside in the best apart-