83 MAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. G 2 loere the smoke of the chimney may be least oflfensive, and its appearance least iieelionable ; it may even be outside the house to be warmed, and be placed in an oining building : hence the superior security from fire. The heat of steam pipes, also, fthey never can exceed 212°, is not likely to injure the air. 'liGo. Whett steam is employed to warm an apartment in a dwelling house, it cannot be innitted in common steam pipes, on account of their form and appearance ; but various 'ians must be had recourse to for rendering the steam vessels ornamental: one of the best is by collecting the pipes in masses, and covering them -with open screen work, in the manner of a side table or pedestals, &c. as at fig. 71.; or the pipes may be concealed in the walls, or under the floor, and the air admitted by registers ; or the steam may enter into a hollow space between two cylinders or cubes, serving as pedestals for statues or vases, by which a great surface of steam might be exposed. In this way steam may be advantageously employed to assist in warming a large apartment, in addition to an open Fig. 71 e,;, which is seldom sufficient to render every part of such a room comfortable. Sect. V. WARBIING BUILDINGS BY HOT WATER. 3566. Warming by means of hot water, though one of the last modes brought into practice, of older date than is generally supposed. It appears to have been first employed by imnemain, of Paris, just before the first French revolution. He had in this manner heated hot-houses at the " Jardin des Plantes" at Paris, and he likewise applied it to preserving equal temperature in little chambers, in which he succeeded in hatching chickens in the lyyptian manner, without the hen. Afterwards, the Marquis Chabannes practised the line mode in England, and succeeded in some hot houses, but failed in applying it to iwate dwellings. This practice has lately been revived, and larger pipes of cast iron iUg employed, hot water is very successfully used in heating hot-houses, or other .'ge buildings where these pipes are not inconvenient. ;367. To cause hot water to circulate through pipes in a building merely by the action of aat, all that is necessai-y is to provide a boiler, a., fig. 72., filled with water, and closed at the top ; a pipe must proceed from the top of the boiler at a, entering through the part of the building which is to be warmed, b,c, and returning back into the boiler at the bottom d. This boiler and its pipe, being closed all round, is to be considered as one vessel, and the cause of the circulation of the water will be easily understood if the reader will refer to the description we gave of the currents upwards and downwards which Count Rumford observed in water while heating Portions of water heated at the bottom of the boiler will rise to the top, ascend through the pipe, and return again to the bottom: the Fir- 72. cooling of the water in the pipe promoting the return. If ee whole of the boiler and pipe were to be kept at a boiling heat, this motion would tase : but as the water in the pipe is constantly cooling, the circulation goes on, and the later, hot, but not boUing, is thus canied to a considerable distance. 'There are, however, considerable difficulties in applying this method to warming ■mestic dwellings. It is necessary to have the pipes of considerable size, several inches 1 diameter, if circular, that they may contain hot water enough to be effective, and such pes, which must be of cast iron, are very tnconvenient in a private house : also if they e to ascend to the upper stories, the pressure of the water in them would be enormous, nd would require them to be of great strength. From this, and other circumstances, it las found that this mode of warming with cylindrical pipes must be limited to certain laces, as hot houses, conservatories, and public rooms of any kind, where the pipes may ! disposed of out of the way, and where there is no occasion to raise the water much ■)0ve the boiler. In these cases this method by hot water is found to give a very equal jgree of heat, and to have some of the advantages of steam, at the same time that the pparatus is more simple, and more easily managed: but we must observe, that it is much t'ferior to steam in the facility of being conducted to any part of a building, or to any NStance, and therefore, upon the whole, it is much more limited in its application : nor is l ie regularity of the heat so great as that of steam. The pipes with hot water are, how- ver, sometimes made flat, the section being a rectangle, instead of a circle, and thus they ■••e more easily introduced into apartments, being made to appear as part of the sliirting, r • partly concealed by some artifice. When managed in tills way, they have been found