Book XI. 832 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. hot plate, A B, extending across one side of the kitchen, and having tliese charcoal stewing stoves as part of the arrangement which serves for broiling, boiling, and stewing, with great convenience. The hot plate is best placed in a recess like a large chimney, with a flue to carry off the heated air, as in the kitchen of the Merchant Tailors' Hall, where advantage has been taken of two large ancient chimneys. This convenience cannot be always obtained, except in the case of a new kitchen, where the architect may provide for it. In some places a hood might be brought over the hot plate with a proper contrivance above to carry out the hot air. Sect. VIII. COOKING BY STEAM. 4725. The application of steam to the art of cooking is a modern invention ; and as this great agent has been found extremely convenient in other arts, it is here particularly so. It has been pretty generally practised in this country with more or less success for nearly half a century, but of late there have been great improvements in the modes of using it and in the apparatus. 4726. Cooking by steam is, indeed, one of the greatest advances which have been lately made in the culinary art. Not only can steam be conveyed to any part of the kitchen with the greatest facility, so as to be used where no fire could be introduced, and thus economy and cleanliness are obtained, but this mode of cooking has several other advantages. Steam kitchens, as they were called, have been sometimes fitted with very complicated machinery which is expensive, and too much has often been attempted. There is no doubt, by ingenious contrivances, it would be easy to show what steam, as well as gas, is capable of doing ; but what we particularly wish is, that cooking should be performed either better or cheaper than by the ordinary methods. Experiments showing merely what it is possible to effect are, however, always valuable, and ordinary cooks have not yet learned to make all the use of steam that is possible, even by very simple and easy methods : nor can this be expected, except they were better acquainted with philoso- phical principles. It is only from those who possess this knowledge that improvements in the use of steam can proceed ; yet the few leading facts that are essential to be known are far from being above the attainment of those who have most occasion for them, and we shall endeavour to render thetn easy to be understood. 4727. We here recommend the reader who wishes to understand steam to peruse what we have said in Chap. I. Book II. on the subject of the boiling of water, and to consider carefully the description of the manner in which water is converted into steam. But to save a great deal of trouble, perhaps it will be better here to enumerate the principal circumstances respecting steam, at the risk of some complaints of repetition. Water, then, always becomes converted into an elastic gas called steam, when it is heated to 212° under the ordinary pressure of the atmosphere. Steam itself is perfectly transparent and invisible like common air, and will remain so as long as the heat of 212° is kept up ; but no sooner does it come into contact with any body colder than itself than it parts with some of its heat, and can no longer remain in the state of steam, but returns to that of water, which, however, will be at first so hot as to be nearly boiling. This return of steam to its former condition is termed its condensation, and there are some remarkable circumstances connected with it. Steam, we have said, is an elastic substance like air, and may be considered as in fact a kind of air or aqueous gas, which requires to be kept up to 212° to be permanent. Now as a vessel which is called empty is still fiill of air, it is impossible to put another kind of air into the same vessel, except the first be taken out; in like manner, steam cannot be put into a vessel, except the common air be abstracted. Steam is lighter than common air, and therefore, if introduced into a vessel filled with air, it will occupy the upper part of the vessel, if there are openings by which the common air can get away. To illustrate this important fact, suppose it was required to put steam into the space a b c,fig. 676., between two vessels of different sizes, in order to boil the water in the inner one. It would be impossible to cause the steam to enter at c except openings are left at/, by which the common air could be driven out; but by degrees the whole of the ^-M 6 1*—/ air would thus escape by the pressure of the steam, which would then Fig. 676. entirely occupy the space a b c. It is in this manner that water is made to boil in vessels placed upon wooden tables at a distance from the fire in the kitchens of some of the London club-houses. Another important fact with respect to steam is, that if a jet of cold water be suddenly let into a vessel thus filled with steam, the latter will be instantly condensed into water, which will occupy only a very small space compared with what it did as steam. Now as the common air had been driven out at first, when this condensation takes place there is neither air nor steam in the space so occupied,