1048 STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. Book XX. In chemiciil laboratories, there is always a sand-bath large enough to receive several vessels for iliflcrciit operations; but wlien only a single vessel is employed, any iron pan capalile of holding a sufOcient quantity of sand may do. Where they are much used, sand-baths are best made of plates of cast-iron ; but these cracli, unless made in separate pieces, and tliey are expensive, and upon the whole dilBcult to fit up, though the most durable. I'iiose made of wrouglit iron arc not liable to this inconvenience, though they are to another one, that of warping ; but for domestic purposes they may frequently answer sufficiently. 623.3. Distilliny in vamo is a modern improvement of great importance. It is a ■well- known fact tliat li<iuids boil, or are converted into vapour, at a much lower temperature, ■when the pressure of the atmosphere is removed from their surface. This is easily illustrated by the air-pump. If a tumbler of -water lukewarm be introduced under the receiver, and the air exhausted, the water will exhibit all the appearance of boiling, and be converted into vapour, although the actual temperature is not increased ; that is to say, ■when the air is extracted, water heated only lukewann will exhibit the phenomena of boiling or ebullition. This fact has been happily applied to distillation. The heat of boiling water, 212°, is capable of injuring many substances required to be distilled ; but if the air be removed from the surface of the liquor in the still, the liquor will boil, and be raised in vapour, at a heat much lower. Where the air is removed, which is described by the term in vacuo, water boils at 90° instead of 212°, so that the fluid need never be heated more than 100°, or much above blood heat This is particularly useful in medi- cinal preparations, as in distilling many extracts from vegetables, which have their virtues "destroyed or much impaired by the temperature of 212°; and it prevents all burnt flavour or empyreuma. 62.34. Tills process has likewise been found particularly useful in boiling the sugar in refining. Instead of boiling at a heat of 218° or 220°, syrup requiring this to drive off the water, is now boiled and evaporated by means of the vacuum, at a very low tem- perature, which cannot burn the sugar ; and thus a great saving is made. This has been already mentioned under " Sugar-making." 6235. Many other improvements have lately been made in the apparatus for distilling in manufactories, and several patents have been taken out both in France and this country for inventions of various degrees of merit; but the description of these does not enter into the plan of this work. 6236. Sublimation is a species of distillation in -which the substance rises in a light flocculent form, instead of vapour, and condenses in form of a powder, _as in the case of flowers of sulphur. 6237. Rectification is the repeated distillation of any fluid. CHAP. n. VARIOUS PROCESSES PERFORMED IN THE LABORATORY. 6238. When substances are to be comminuted, or divided into small pieces, various methods are to be resorted to, according to the nature of the substances, and the use that is intended to be made of them. 6239. Mortars are well-known implements for pounding. When very hard substances are to be pounded, an iron mortar, with a pestle of the same material, may be conve- niently placed upon a strong block of wood in a corner of the apartment. Sometimes a heavy hammer is required first to break the substances into pieces. For table mortars, those of brass are sometimes used, or, what is better and cleaner, Wedgewood's white ware, or the Berlin which is excellent. Some mortars are made of white marble, bnt they are less hard, though sufficiently so for ordinary purposes. For very nice purposes, small mortars are made of steel, agate, porphyry, and even of glass. For bruising suc- culent herbs, roots, and other recent vegetable substances, which do not require tritu- ration, mortars made of box wood or oak are sometimes used. To prevent substances from being scattered about while being pounded, the mortar should have a loose cover of wood or pasteboard, with a wide hole in it for the pestle ; when such a cover is not at hand, a piece of pliable leather may be tied over it, or, a clean cloth held tight with one hand on the top of the mortar, and round the pestle, may be used as a makeshift. After pounding, some substances are reduced to a still finer powder by rubbing or grinding with the pestle acainst the inside of tlie mortar. To pound properly in a mortar requires some practice, and should be learnt by frequent trials ; for this purpose it would be well to observe the modes used by apothecaries. In general, a small quantity only at a time should be put into the mortar, otherwise some of the material may escape the complete action of the nestle In many cases, it is best to reduce the whole first to a coarse powder, and then to pound this over again finer by small quantities at a time. Some soft substances, as chalk re(iuirc only bruising. Charcoal is best pulverised while hot; it may be ignited,