Chap. X. ON TEA. 703 4033. The Chinese drink their tea witliout milk (wliich is entirely an European addi- tion), and, in general, without sugar. They threw some tea into a cup, and pour boiling water over it; they cover the cup with a sliallow saucer, and let it rest some time. After it has stood sufficiently, they pour the clear liquid into the saucer, and di-ink it as hot as possible, which is, indeed, their practice with every kind of beverage. The tea used by the Chinese grandees consists of entire leaves, and, therefore, the extract is perfectly limpid.—Dr. Mayer's Voyage. The Chinese also sometimes beat up the yolk of new-laid eggs with sugar, and mix this with their tea, which is an excellent addition for travellers. They say we suffer the water to remain too long upon the tea, which causes it to extract a bitter portion. Its use extends to all classes : the mandarin in his palace and the labourer in the field are equally accompanied by the kettle and the tea-pot; and to handle the cups with elegance and the service of the beverage forms, as with us, an essential part of female education. The Chinese take it at all times throughout the day as a common beverage, and they likewise introduce it as a refreshment to regale their friends. The tea-pot forms even an important part of the equipage of the traveller, and for those who have not time nor convenience to prepare their own tea, booths are erected for its preparation and sale on every great road. The higher classes use only the finest teas, and are particularly careful in its preparation, but the lower ranks employ tea often of execrable quality, and even substitute for it the leaves of other plants. The Japanese, it is said, prepare and drink their tea in the same manner as is done in China, but we have had no accurate information respecting them of late. 4034. Tea is also used among several other nations of Asia. The Tonquinese and Cochin-Chinese grow tea, but import the best qualities from China. In Camboja and Siam there is also a considerable consumption of tea imported in Chinese junks, and it has been lately imported into England from the last-named country. The Burmese are also tea consumers ; they import it from the neighbouring Chinese province of Yunnan, in parcels of a globular form ; but, exclusive of this, the Burmese aave a genuine native tea. Tea is also grown in Java, and a good deal of this is imported into Holland. The natives of Hindostan, Persia, Arabia, and Turkey, are not unacquainted with the use of tea, but have recourse to it, for the most part, only for its supposed medicinal virtues. According to the account given by Sir A. Burnes, the Turcomans of Trans- oxiana and the neighbouring countries are amongst the greatest consimiers of tea. It is conveyed by Chinese caravans through the routes of Yarkand and Badakhshair, and there purchased by Moslem merchants who forward it to Bokhara. A singular preparation of tea is in use among the Tartar tribes from the borders of Russia to the eastern ocean. Partly for the purpose of rendering tea leaves more portable and to preserve them, they are moistened with some slightly glutinous fluid, and then pressed into moulds, from which they take the form of small bricks. To use it they scrape off a portion of this brick and boil it with butter, flour, milk, and salt; and though we would scarcely anticipate that this preparation would be relished by European palates, some travellers who have tasted it describe it as far from unpleasant. The same tribes use also the infusion in the ordinary way. 4035. The mode of preparing the infusion of tea in Europe, or, as it is termed amongst us, " making tea," is nearly uniform. To make the infusion properly it is essential that the water, when applied to the tea should be boiling hot, and, that it should be so, some water is always poured into the tea-pot first, to warm it, and thus prevent it from abstract- ing heat from the water which is poured upon the tea, and lessening its effect. It is for the same reason that the water should be cooled as little as possible, that a small quantity is first poured upon the tea, and more added afterwards for the first infusion. It is well known that the first infusion is the best, containing the chief part of the aroma, and that the second infusion, by adding more water, is less agreeable. Dr. Kitchener recommends that all the water necessary should be poured in at once, as the second drawing is bad. When much tea is wanted it is best to have two tea-pots instead of two drawings. Dr. Truster's mrthod was to make a very strong infusion by pouring boiling vv.iter upon tlie tea, and let it Stand twenty minutes, putting into eacli cup no more than is necessary to fill it about one-third full; then each cup was filled with hot water from an urn or kettle ; thus the tea will be always hot and equally strong to the end ; and one tea-spoonful will be found enough for three cups for e.ich jn'rson ; whereas, .iccording to the present mode of making it, a much greater quantity is used. This will be convenient in parties. Dabuissun's method Put the tea into a kettle with cold water ; cover It close ; set it on the fire, and make it very nearly, but not quite boil; then take it from the fire ; when the leaves sink it is ready.