CUAP. III. 569 BREWING. 3199. The boilinq must always be continued till this coaynhition appears, otlierw ise it will bo useless, and a much longer continuance of it is injurious ; about half an hour may be sufficient for extracting the soluble principles of the hop, but not always for the coagu- lation we have mentioned. If the boiling be continued too long, certain evils ensue ; too lar"-e a quantity of the coagulable ferment may be separated, and the presence of some of this in the wort is essential to the fermentation, which then will be languid ; the strength of the liquor will suffer, and perhaps the whole may acetify. Another evil is occasioned by too long boiling, and also by violent boiling, -which cannot be easily remedied, namely, the loss by volatilisation of the essential oil of the hops, which contains the aroma. On this account, the hops should not be put in until the wort has boiled some time, that the rank flavour may not be extracted by too long decoc- tion ; and care should likewise be taken that the boiling should be as uniform as possible. 3200. The greatest part of the flakes coagulated is detained in straining the wort into the coolers; what remains is thrown out with the yeast in fermenting, and lastly, in the lees of the beer, thus freeing it from matters which otherwise would have remained in solution, or have rendered the liquor thick and turbid. 3201. In some places a separate infusion (\f the hops has been mnde, and afterwards added to the wort, instead of boiling tlie hops with the wort; this has heen recommended, as preserving the essential oil, which is sometimes lost in the common process, and as leaving out the rank flavour which long boiling extracts. 3202. Among the improxiements in brewing, some of which might be adopted in domestic arrangements, where expense is not an object, is boiling the wort by means of steam surrounding the outside of the boiler, instead of suffering the Bre to come in contact with it; this will prevent all risk of burning the ingredients, .md giving a disagreeable taste to the beer. The boiler that supplies the steam should be furnished with a safety valve, and the outside jacket or casing, betiveen which and the copper the steam is introduced, may even be of wood. SuBSECT. 3.— Cooling the Wort. 3203. After the wort has been sufficientli/ boiled with the hops, it is necessary to cool it down to the proper temperature for fermentation; and this must be done as quickly as pos- sible, since the wort would be very apt to pass into the acetous fermentation, were it kept long at a high temperature. The necessity of cooling the wort rapidly, though so important, is one of the most difficult and uncertain parts of brewing, as it requires that conveniences are had for exposing a very large surface to the air, and it is necessary also that the temperature of the atmosphere should be sufficiently low, on which account it is not possible to brew well in the summer, nor in a warm climate. 3204. Cool dry weather is best adapted for brewing, on account of the cooling of the wort; extremes of heat and cold are unfavourable, and therefore spring and autumn have been generally selected for private brewing. March and October are months well known as the fittest times of the year. In the great breweries, they brew some beer in the summer as well as in the winter; but then they make use of large fans and refrigerators for cooling their worts, and even with these there is more risk than in cold weather; in winter, with a dry north or east wind, the cooling is speedily performed ; but in frosty or very cold weather the fermentation is slow, except means are taken to keep up the heat. 3205. In warm weather, especially if at the same time the air is moist and close, the cooling is so far retarded, that spontaneous decomposition of the liquor sometimes begins to take place ; specks of white mould sometimes make their appearance on the surface, and communicate to the mass a rank and disagreeable musty flavour. In this state, the liquor is said to be foxed; and the effect consists in an extremely minute species of vegetation growing in the wort, but which it would require a good micro- scope to recognise. Should this accident happen, it would be sure to increase in every subsequent stage of the brewing, and even during the consumption of the ale or beer. 3206. To expedite the cooling as much as possible, a variety of expedients are resorted to, which must vary according to the magnitude of the brewing, and the particular localities. In dry settled weather the wort is best cooled out of doors, but it must be carefully guarded from rain. When it is cooled within doors, all the doors and windows s'hould be set open, and it is necessary to take care that the sun does not shine upon it. Thimdery weather is particularly unfavourable. 3207. The temperature to which the boiled wort i« to be reduced, previous to fermentation, ought, if possible, to be about 60°, or very little more. The injury, however, sustained by fermenting at too high a temperature is not by any means so great as the least degree of foxiness; and therefore if the weather be close and warm, and the brewer has no other means of cooling his wort except by exposure to the air, let him ferment at 70°. 3208. In Scotland and on the Continent they ferment at very low temperatures; but Dr. Thomson observes that, when the room in which the fermentation is carried on is cold, if the wort is cooled down as low as the atmosphere, it often refuses to ferment, and artificial heat is obliged to be used before it will begin. He recommends that the tem- .perature should never be less than 56° except the room be warmer, in which case the ■temperature may even be reduced to 52°. The wort loses, during the operation of cool-