ifAp. xir. SCOURING, REMOVING STAINS, ETC. 1101 ( putting it on with hot water, and when dry brushing it off. If required to be quite white, the fullers' earth may be omitted, and whiting used in its stead; they do not injure any coloured cloth; or they may be made by mixing eight oimces of white soap, an ounce of oil of turpentine, two ounces of ox-gall, one drachm of lemon-juice, and eight ounces lof starch powder. 65 7 G. liolls may also be made fur removing grease from silk as follows:—Mix an ounce of fpounded French chalk with five ounces of pipe-clay, and add to this two ounces of spirits lOf wine. Form this paste into rolls of the size of one's finger. When dry they may be japplied to silk or stuffs to remove grease in the same way as the balls above described ^were to woollen cloth ; and the stuff must be afterwards washed with cold water. G577. To remove oil or grease from boards. — Moisten fullers' earth with hot water, and Uet it stand till it is cold; then spread a thick plaster of this over the spots : let it re- imain on all night: next day scour the place with hot water. If necessary repeat the ] process. 6578. To remove spots of wax from clothes—moisten them repeatedly with strong spirits I of wine; this will so far dissolve the wax that it will become dry and brittle, and may tthen be brushed off; or a few drops of rectified turpentine may be employed as still I more effectual; and the turpentine may be washed out with soap and water. 6579. Balls for cleaning chamois leather are made by pounding and mixing together one ] pound of Bath brick, four ounces pumice-stone, two pounds pipe-clay, and half a pint of . ox-gall. If a yellow colour is required, add suflicient yellow ochre. They are used ; as the balls last described. 6580. To take out spots of oil paint from clothes. — The paint may be removed before it ' becomes dry and hard, by brushing the part with soap and water, or more effectually by I turpentine. But after the paint has become dry and hard, soap will not remove it. The : spot should then be touched with turpentine applied with a pointed stick; this should remain for some time, till the turpentine has dissolved the hardened oil and loosened the paint. When the place is dry, it may be rubbed between the fingers, and the colour will crumble off in loose powder. The smell of the turpentine will go off in a day or two, but may be removed sooner by laying a piece of brown paper on it, and applying a hot iron, or by spirits of wine. 6581. Pitch or tar must be removed by spirits of turpentine, either from cloth or from the hands. 6582. Recent stains of ink may be nearly removed if, before the ink is dry, the places be washed with plenty of water, after a sponge has been used, to take up as much of the ink as possible; if this does not succeed, rub the part with lemon-juice, tartaric acid, or purified wood vinegar, and after that wash it with soap and water. 6583. To remove spots or stains of ink which have dried, and iron moulds. The black colour of ink is owing to red oxide of iron united to a principle existing in all barks, called gallic acid ; and iron moulds are the red stains of iron, owing to the red oxide of iron which is left by itself, from ink, or from contact with rust of iron. AVhatever dis- solves the iron will destroy the iron mould; acids have this effect, but if they are too strong, they likewise corrode the linen. Certain weak acids, which have a strong affinity for iron, are selected for this purpose, the best of which is the citric acid, or the acid found naturally in the citron, in limes, in lemons, and other fruits. On account of its having been procured plentifully from lemons, it is sometimes called salt of lemons, or crystal- lised lemon-juice. For a more particular accoimt of it we refer the reader to our descrip- tion of the lemon among " Fruits," Chap. IX. Book VII. , Another acid which has the same effect, and which is now more used, from being cheaper, is the oxalic acid, which, it is proper to know, is a deadly poison. This acid exists naturally in wood sorrel; though in this plant it does not exist pure, but combined with potash, forming oxalate of potash, which is also poisonous. The leaves of wood sorrel, which contain in their grain this oxalate of potash, when bruised and rubbed upon iron moulds, removes them : but as a more convenient mode, this salt has been extracted from sorrel and is sold for this purpose, under the very improper name of salt of lemons. 6584. The method of taking out iron moulds with salt of lemons, whether the genuine or the fictitious (the salt of sorrel or oxalate of potash), is this: — A small quantity of the salt is pounded and applied on the spot; and then some hot water is dropped on it, and rubbed in, upon a pewter plate placed upon a stove, or on a water plate containing boiling water ; the acid dissolves the iron in the iron mould or the ink, and a little warm water washes all out. If one is not enough it must be done over again. The rationale of this effect is, that the oxalic acid has a greater affinity for iron, whether in the ink or in the state of iron mould. It unites, therefore, to the iron, leaving the potash, and forming an oxalate of iron, which salt is colourless, and being soluble is easily washed away. The method of making the salt of sorrel from the juice of the plant has been described in our account of " Sorrel," Chap. IX. Book VII. If the stains are of long standing and difficult