GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XL 808 have not scon it can scarcely Imagine how well such a mass of meat may bo so cooked. Thevenot says. In Ins '1 ravel.s, ' tliat " it is common in I'ersia to perform this species of cookery. It is done in an oven which has an openm^ at the lop ; alter this has been well heated the meat is hunt; up in it, and a dripping-pan put under to receive the fat: ni this manner it is well done on all sides." The Armenians wrap the sheep in its own skni and surround it with burning coals. M. Blaquire informs us, that In Greece he has seen a whole sheep or lamb turning before a huge lire of wood ; this was common among the shepherds. A stake was passed through the carcase, being supported upon two forked sticks stuck in the ground. When the roasting . was completed, the animal was carried away and placed against a tree, where it was cut into pieces. Meat is often ro.isted whole in Italy, and cut from the spit and sold in the market-place. 4039. // is soiiiclimfs necessary la Uileiierale, vr make tender, meat or poultry that is either fresh killed, or that IS naturally tougli from age. If there is time, hanging it up a sufficient time has the desired effect, as we have already explained under " Preservation of Food." Whatever accelerates incipient putrefaction serves to render meat tender. It is a well known fact, that a fowl of any kind, not many hours killed, will become as tender, if buried live or six hours in common garden soil, as if it had been kept above ground two or three days. Fowls newly killed, and dressed before they are cold, and, consequently, before the fibre« become rigid, are always tender, as are all the internal parts of animals. Broiling. 4640. Broiling is a quicker kind of roasting, by putting the meat over, instead of before the fire. For this purpose, to prevent smoke, the fire should be very equal and clear, and the meat must be turned often, using a peculiar kind of tongs for the purpose, not a fork, ■which lets out the gravj'. As the outside albumen is set firm almost immediately, it prevents much of the internal juices from escaping, and hence the great sapidity of meat well broiled, which is justly esteemed one of the best modes of cooking. Broiling is a simple mode of cooking, often best suited and most acceptable to the fickle appetite of the invalid ; and it is recommended by comfort and economy to solitary diners, and small families, as affording the means of dressing a small quantity of meat hot as delicately as the largest quantity. The English beef steak and mutton chop are celebrated all the world over, and there are many other excellent things which are done best in this mode. Broiling has likewise the recommendation of being the most expeditious mode of cook- ing. Some improvements of the apparatus for broiling will be found in our account of " Kitchen Furniture." Frying. 4G41. Frying is a kind of boiling in oil or fat. As these substances are capable of being heated to a much greater degree than water, the necessary change is produced upon the meat much sooner than in boiling in that fluid ; this is also at the same time effected in some degree by the radiant heat from the frying pan; so that, in fact, the process is intermediate between roasting and boiling, and by the intervention of the iron between the meat and the fire, it gets very equally dressed. The best substance to fry with is oil ; but good butter, if clarified, answers very well, though, if not clarified, it is apt to burn, and give out an empyreumatic flavour, owing to the milk it contains. Good lard, if qtiite fresh, will do very well. It requires some nicety to make the oil of the proper degree of heat ; if not hot enough, the fry will be merely boiled or sodden in fat, and not fried ; and if too hot, it will be scorched before it can be heated through. Frj'ing is often a convenient mode of cooking, as it may be performed by a fire which is not large enough for roasting or boiling. But Dr. Kitchener observes, that though this is one of the most common of the culinary operations, yet it is one that is seldom performed perfectly well. Baking. 4642. Baking meat in an ordinary oven differs from roasting in this, that the substance is heated in a confined space, and the fimies arising from it are not carried off, no current of air passing through the oven. This is of considerable importance in dressing meat; in baking, the agreeable and peculiar taste of roast meat is not completely developed, a slight empyrevimatic taste is acquired and communicated, which a nice palate can almost always distinguish. AVith respect to the baking of pies or pastry, this objection is of little consequence, as the crust defends the articles baked. With this exception, the changes produced by baking are nearly the same as by roasting. Notwithstanding the objection we have mentioned to meat baked in the ordinary baker's oven, yet for those whose palates are not sufficiently delicate to perceive the defect, this mode of cooking has many advantages of economy both of time and expense ; indeed, a careful baker, who will take some trouble in keeping the inside of his oven perfectly clean, may avoid much of the usual defects: and the oven has been significantly termed " the poor man's kitchen." The foUnwiiiy directions for baking meat are from the excellent manual by Mistress Margaret Dodds: — " The b:iker's oven, or (ho family oven, may often bo substituted for the cook and the spit, with greater economy and conv<'nionce ; and for some particular joints and kinds of viands it is even more suit.iblc. A baking dish ought to be in tlie form of a trough, and at h ast six inrlies deep, that the meat ni.ny. In fact, slew in its own juices, ns it gets little or no basting. Hut a pie must be li.iked in a shallow tin dish ; the <lrlpping pan of a bacl(elor'8 or Dutch ovcu will answer very well, rrejiare things to be baked as for roasting, but