710 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. of taste. Tht: cofTcc exhausted in this manner will still yield some weak infusion. Wljcn healed this coffee should not be sullercd to boil. It is evident tliat tlie length of the tube assists the percolation bv'the hydro- static pressure. ' ' 4087. With respect to the quantity of coffee used in making the decoction, much depends upon the taste of the consumer. The general use of tea amongst us, and the greater price of coifee while the high duty existed, occasioned the latter to he much less used in England, and the art of preparing it less understood than on the Continent. The greatest and most common fault in English cofiFee is the too small quantity of the ingredient; and coffee is usually made stronger on the other side of the Channel than it is here. The present cheapness of our cofiFee, however, renders the quantity less an object of economy than it was formerly. Count Rumford, who had a very favourable opinion of the valuable qualities of coffee, observes, that to make it good, such as is usually drunk after dinner, a pound of good Mocha coffee, which, when roasted and ground, weighs only thirteen ounces, serves to make fifty-six full cups, or a little less than a quarter of an ounce to a coffee-cup of moderate size. Mr Donovan gives the proportion of two ounces and a half of well-roasted coffee to an imperial quart measure of water. Some may prefer it rather weaker. If coffee is too strong, the fine aromatic flavour is less perceived than the bitter. 4088. The method of making coffee in some parts of Turkey is thus described by Mr. Fellows in his " Excur- sions through Asia Minor: " — " Each cup is made separately, the little saucepan or ladle in which it is pre- pared being about an inch wide and two deep ; tliis is more than half filled with coffee, finely pounded with a pestle and mortar, and then filled uj) with water ; after being placed for a few seconds on the fire, the con- tents are poured, or rather shaken, out (being much thicker than chocolate), without the addition of cream or sugar, into a china cup of the size and shape of half an egg-shell, which is inclosed in one of ornamented metal for convenience of holding in the hand." 4089. Coffee is always drunk without milk in Turkey and the East, and also in France and England after dinner. When taken at breakfast with us, milk, or, what is much better, cream, is added to it. The milk should always be first boiled ; and when the quantity of the boiled milk equals that of the strong-made coffee, the beverage is termed by the French Cafe au lait. 4090. From what has been stated, it appears that, to make good coffee, the following cir- cumstances are to be attended to: prociire coffee of good quality; have it carefully roasted and ground, if possible, on the day it is wanted ; use a suiBcient quantity in maJdng the decoction; boil it according to the directions given above ; clarify it well; add to it cream or boiled milk; let it be served quite hot. 4091. Coffee is sometimes adulterated by mixing with roasted peas and beans, but, most of all, with chiccory; and many grocers have been prosecuted and convicted of this fraud. But, as it is impossible to counterfeit the berry in the unground state, the best precaution is never to pm'chase ground coffee, but to see it ground; or, what is better, to roast and grind it at home. The poor are most liable to suffer by this species of dishonesty, as they generally piu-chase coffee ready ground in very small quantities. To detect the adulteration of coffee by peas and beans is beyond the reach of chemical science. Sect. VII. SUBSTITUTES FOK COFFEE. Various substitutes for cqffie have been tried and recommended ; but none of these are found to have much of the flavour of true coffee ; and considering the trouble attending on such preparations, and the present low price of the real article, it is much to be doubted whether any of them be worth using; certain it is, that no substance is brought forward that can be at all compared, in point of flavour and other properties, to tffee 4092 Chiccory is used in many places on the Continent as a substitute for coffee, and is also mixed with it, ther from an idea of improving its flavour, or for economy. For a description of the plant, see Book VII. •iiineir to' be much used in England, except for adulterating coflee; and as large quantities have been im- 'im -ted it is difficult to say to what other use it is .applied. But it is easy to detect this fraud by a very simple ..vneriment ■_ Put the quantity of a pinch of snuff of tlio ground coffee yon suspect to be adulterated on the surface of a glass of water; the coffee itself will swim, and not mix with the water, but the chiccory will sink in the water, and be seen falling down as a red powder. ,, . , , • » r 4( In The substance called Hunt's breakfast powder, which used to be sold in the shops, consists of rye, Iinile l dried and roasted with a little butter, and then ground like coffee ; it is not unlike the most ordinary roffpp or Kvlvestcr's coffee. In Nortli America uiey use, as a suusuuue lur cuiieu, uie ot^--"" trcf, or atdJtr^^^ canadensis; but they form a poor one, as the liquor made from them is very ^''mTVmrns'havc been recommended as the best substitute by the Academv of Sciences at Petersburgh. Toeomnnmicatrt .th™ oily properties of coffee, the following process has been used:_ V\hen the aX. and 6t? the n with care, or cover the ladle, and shake it. that the whole may be well mixed.