1032 Book XIX. SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. For weak sight at an early age, being usually dependent on the state of health, a skilful physician is the best adviser: but there are defects of vision which can, fortunately, be corrected by spectacles, and it is the choice of these we wish to explain. Gl 18. As old age draws on, every one finds a difiiculty in reading a book held at the usual distance, and feels the necessity of holding it farther oif to see distinctly; this evil increases until distinct vision cannot be had but at a much greater distance, and at last this distance becomes so great, that the apparent size of the letters is too much diminished to discern them. This defect, the natural consequence of old age, is owing to the convexity of the eye having diminished; and it is to be remedied by using spectacles, the glasses of ^ which are what are termed by opticians double convex, of which a and ? - —^ h, fig. 791., are sections, showing that they are ground thicker in the middle than at the edges. When the defect is first perceived, glasses 1 [-"-' ''1 ^''^^ ^ slight degree of convexity will do, as a, which opticians caU ^ the first sight: but after a few years, the eyes becoming still flatter, , —! glasses more convex, as b, are necessary to enable one to see to read Fig. 791. distinctly at the usual distance ; and on every increase of a few years it will be required to have them more and more convex, or what are termed older sight. The more convex the glasses, the more they magnify, or the larger they make objects at the same distance appear. In general, when the eye is perfect, six or eight inches is the usual distance at which we hold small objects to view them, such as a book; but this distance is not exactly the same for all persons. To choose spectacles when the eyes are getting old, begin by trying glasses that magnify least, or what is called the youngest sight; if these enable one to read at the usual distance, they are the kind to be employed ; but if vision is still indistinct, try a higher magnifying power, and so on until the proper spectacles are found ; but be careful not to use a higher magnifying power than is rejilly necessary, otherwise the evil of age will be brought on prematurely. 6119. Persons are said to be long-sighted when the defect is owing to the too great flat- ness of the eye, which is occasionally but rarely natural, as well as produced by age; the defect relates only to near objects, for they generally see objects at a distance as well as ever. It is proper to begin to use spectacles as soon as the eyes are discovered to be defective through age, and some injure their sight by avoiding to use glasses longer than is prudent. The first sight, or lowest magnifiers, are often called preservers. Short-sighted peisons are those whose eyes are naturally too convex, a defect which has existed from their childhood. The consequence of this defect is, that objects at a distance cannot be perceived distinctly, although they see near objects perfectly well, and indeed better than other persons, for eyes of this kind are in fact of themselves mag- nifiers. But so deficient is their sight with respect to distant objects, that sometimes they can scarcely discern any thing clearly across a street, and some have been known never to have observed the horizon until they saw it through glasses. As we have observed that all eyes get naturally flatter by age, time will correct this defect wholly or in part by rendering the eyes less convex ; but in the mean time to do the same by means of spectacles, their lenses must be ground very differently from magnifiers—they must be concave glasses, ground thinner in the middle than at the edges, as at c, and such glasses diminish objects instead of magnifying them. Short-sighted persons require these glasses most out of doors, for without them they can scarcely recognise their friends. Ordinary spectacles with two glasses are by much the most convenient and best for the eyes, whether convex or concave ; but single lenses of either kind are occasionally useful, as they may be worn fastened to a riband, and may often be used more expeditiously than spectacles that require to be kept in a case: but the habit of using them in reading is said to injure the sight. Common cheap spectacles sometimes appear to answer as well as those which cost three or four times the money ; but very cheap glasses are not to be depended upon ; they are sometimes ground irregularly and imperfectly, and then they injure the eyes. It is better, therefore, to have spectacles from a respectable optician, who haH a character to maintain. Spectacles having lenses called pebbles, which is rock crys- tal, are not liable to be scratched like glass ; but they are not in any degree better than those of glass for vision ; and if care be taken of the latter they do just as well. CHAP. V. HANDS AND FEET. G120. So much care is now bestowed upon the hands by some persons, that it would seem as if it was not supposed.they were made to be used; nevertheless, it is essential in good society to have them in the proper condition. When any sort of work is to. be done that will injui-e them, it is best to wear gloves. Farther than that, and washing them