Book III, 114 ON VENTILATION. so much upon the particular locality, and other circumstances, that it is impossible to give any positive rules I'or it, adapted to all places. 509. We have frequently advocated the necessit;/ of studying the principles of science with a view to their application : and in no subject is this more essential than in the art of ventilation ; for a practice that may be the best for one case may be absolutely worthless in another. The air, an invisible fluid, is to be put into motion, which depends upon certain alterations in its specific gravity, to effect which demands some acquaintance with natural philosophy and chemistry. How, then, are persons totally unacquainted with the elements of those sciences to accomplish the task of ventilation under its various complicated cases ? All that can at present, perhaps, be safely recommended here, is to confine the methods employed as much as possible to those which are the sunplest, as the least likely to be misunderstood. But if any difficulty can be supposed to exist with chimney fire-places, which, in spite of all that is said against them, must be admitted to be powerful, simple, and cheap ventilators, giving no trouble, but acting silently, though surely, what, we observe, shall we say of close stoves of every kind, which do not ventilate of themselves, or so inefficiently, that it amounts almost to the same thing ? 510. With close stoves the difficulties of ventilation increase considerably, while the necessity for it remains undiminished. If the fire door is not in the apartment, the stove absolutely occasions no change of air : if in that case the doors and windows of the rooms are kept shut, the air has no chance of being renewed except what little may take place through imperfect workmansliip of the house. If the fire is supplied with air from the apartment, still the quantity so supplied, and, of course, replaced from without, is so small from the economy of fuel and slowness of combustion, that it amounts to a change far short of what is usually wanted for ventilation. On this ground alone, all physiologists must allow that close stoves cannot be healthy, except means can be devised for changing the air independently of their own action ; for, otherwise, with them the same air must inevitably he breathed again and again, if there are many persons in the same room, or if it be inhabited long at a time. 511. Count Rumford considered the ventilation of an apartment warmed by a close stove as a matter easily accomplished; and he thus expresses himself: —" When, in cold weather, a room is kept warm, the air in it, so far from being confined, is continually changing. Being specifically lighter (in consequence of its being warm) than the air without, it is impossible to open and shut a door without vast quantities of it being forced out of the room by the colder air from without, which rushes in ; and if at any time it be required to ventilate the room in so complete a manner that not a particle of the air in it shall remain unchanged, this may be done in less time than one minute, merely by letting down the top of one of the windows, and at the same time opening a door which will admit the external colder and heavier air. And it must not be imagined that the room will be much cooled in consequence of this complete ventilation. So far from it, a person returning into it three or four minutes after it had been ventilated, and the air in it totall)' changed, would not find its temperature sensibly altered. The walls of the room would still be nearly as warm as before, and the radiant heat from those walls, passing through the transparent air of the room, without any sensible diminution of their calorific powers, would produce the same sensation as they did before. And even the cold air admitted into the room would, in a few minutes, become really warm. And as the specific gravity of air is so very small compared with that of the dense solid materials of which the walls, floor, and ceiling of the room are constructed, the warming of this air will not sensibly cool the room. Hence we see how easy it is to ventilate warm rooms in cold weather, and also how impossible it would be to live in such a room without the air in it being perpetually changed, and replaced by fresh and pure air from without." These principles and directions by the Count are good, and generally practicable, provided the occupier of the apartment will put them in practice himself at proper times. Although we are of opinion that considerably more than " one minute" will be necessary for the operation, yet there is no doubt that in this manner a warm room may be easily ventilated. Still it must be recollected that it may not be always convenient to set a door and window open, particularly in winter, in rainy or snowy weather, when such a stove is most wanted; and since much care and judgment will be required in choosing the proper time, and determining how long these apertures shall remain open, this operation could scarcely be entrusted to ordinary servants. It is however useful to know that such ventilation is not absolutely impossible, nor extremely difficult, provided sufficient means ai-e employed for the regular performance of the above process. Some have recommended keeping a small part of the top sash always open, when a close stove is used. It is obvious that another aperture must be provided for the admission of fresh air, otherwise the stove will supply itself from the window, and counteract the intended ventilation, except indeed the crevices are sufficient, and these are apt to produce unpleasant draughts.