950 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. seem most conformable to reason, it is said that the danger of change is greater than the inconvenience of continuing its use in the short period of warm weather which we gene- rally have in our variable climate. AVorkmen and labourers, when engaged in operations that excite much perspiration, are particularly benefited by wearing woollen dresses next the skin ; and its efficacy, as a preservative from disease, is not confined to cold climates; for several medical writers, particularly Sir George Bullingal, in his " Lectures on Military Surgery," speak of its advantages ; and Sir James Macgregor, Captain Mnrray, and others, have found from experience that soldiers and sailors derive great benefit from it in the West Indies and other warm parts of the world, in consequence of its checking the bad effects of the variations of temperature. Woollen clothing has been proved to be extremely serviceable in preserving those who are unavoidably exposed to the action of malaria and epidemic influences. A late writer on the malaria of Rome strongly advocates this opinion, and expresses his conviction that the ancient Romans suffered less from it, chiefly because they were always enveloped in warm woollen dresses. This opinion, he says, is justified by the observation that since the'period at which the use of woollen clothing in that country came again into vogue, intennittent fevers have very sensibly diminished in Rome. Even in the warmest weather, the shepherds in the environs of that city are now clothed in sheep-skins. 5583. The vse of linen for inner garments has been favourable to cleanliness, and hence it has become very general through modern Europe. It requires comparatively little trouble to keep it clean, and its whiteness enables us easily to see when it is soiled, while its cheapness renders it easy to be renewed. Linen does not absorb so much of the perspirable matter as woollen, being sooner saturated, and consequently leaving the pores of the skin partially clogged up ; on which account, it ought to be frequently changed. It feels colder to the skin than flannel; and that arises from the density of the fibres of flax, which renders it a good conductor of heat, consequently robbing us of a portion rapidly when just put on. From the experiments of Count Rumford {Phil. Papers, i. 267.) it appears that linen does not attract dampness so readily as wool, hair, or other animal substances ; nevertheless, when it is damp, it is more prejudicial than these, and therefore requires good airing before it is worn. 5589. Cotton cloth, though differing little in appearance from linen, does not agree with it in all its properties. Calico, in its powers of conducting heat, holding a middling rank between linen and flannel, has been for some years gradually superseding the use of the former for shirts and other garments worn next the skin ; but it is by no means a succedaneum for flannel. It is not so durable as lin^n, though its cheapness is a great recommendation. 5590. Silk, though warm and soft, is better calculated for outer than for inner garments, and for purposes of elegance and show than of mere utility. As a warm covering, how- ever, it has some valuable qualities. 5591. Furs excel every other material for waimth: but with us, they are chiefly tised for appearance ; wool in general answering every purpose where great warmth is re- quired. 5592. Although it is proper to adapt the warmth of our clothing to the season of the year, yet change in this respect should be made with caution. Very light clothing during the summer months exposes the body to the effects of those sudden changes of weather which we experience in our climate. It is safer to wear the same clothing nearly all the year than to make frequent and sudden changes: exercise under too warm a dress occasions violent perspiration, the effects of which are often dangerous. It is remarkable that in some countries the custom differs materially from ours respecting clothing. We dress, in general, somewhat warmer when we go out than when we sit in doors: the Turks, who seldom have fires in their apartments, keep themselves comfortable within doors by using warmer clothing than when they go out, considering the exercise of moving about as a source of warmth. The Chinese of rank, it is said, practise the same mode ; putting on an additional garment in the house, which they throw off as the sun ascends to the meridian, and resuming it in the cold of the evening. The young and vigorous require less clothing than the old and infirm, and can resist better changes in the weather; but it is said, and perhaps truly, that young people take too little care of their health with respect to heat and cold, and old people sometimes too 5*593. The choice of colours in dress, though generally a matter of fashion, or mere capricei has some foundation in physical principles. Certain colours naturally suit each other, o'r harmonise together. Of all colours, black reflects least, and absorbs more of the heat that strikes upon it than any other colour, which warmth it communicates to the body • but, on the other hand, it radiates more than any other colour, and of course gives out more of the heat which it receives from the skin, producing a counteracting effect. On the contrary, white is the least warmed by the sun, but is more effectual m confinmg the heat of the body by its imperfect radiation. The difference between them with