9 iChap. III. ON THE VARIOUS STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE. to that of Henry VIII. Its admirable adaptation to Fig. 12. Fig. U. qquent use of arches, vaults, and domes, in addition to their employment of columns and lother parts, which form a vast source of variety and interest. Fig. 18. is an example of aa mode of employing the arch in a composition by Bramante: the manner is Roman. 30. The few remains of ancient Roman villas in Britain prove that the antique style was i introduced here ; but it was annihilated, and proba- - Ibly forgotten, during the subsequent inundations of t Saxons and Danes, of whose domestic buildings we [possess scarcely any knowledge. The ecclesiastical aarchitecture formerly termed Saxon, and now early : Norman, distinguished, among other things, by its [peculiar clumsy column, circular arch, and zigzag t ornaments (j^^. 11.) observable in many of our oldest (Churches, may evidently be traced to a barbarous i imitation of the latest Roman style. It appears also i in some of our earliest castles ; but probably was not I employed in the inferior domestic dwellings of the '. Norman period, which for a long time were entirely (of wood, and consequently have disappeared. Nor (does this style appear to have sufficient attraction to 1 be imitated in om* modern houses, and therefore we I need not dwell upon it. 31. The slender column and pointed arch (fig. 12.) are I t/ie distinguishing characteristics of ivhat has long been termed Gothic architecture; a desig- ■i-nation which, whether strictly proper or not, we shall not attempt to set aside for any of I those which have been invented to supersede it. The • < origin of the pointed arch is still involved in obscurity. '. It appeared all over Europe nearly about, or soon after, I the period- of the Norman conquest, as may be traced i in the numerous ecclesiastical and other buildings both i in England and on the Continent, and arrived, in a pro- I gi'essive manner, to a wonderful perfection. Though i it possesses merit of a very high degree, yet its cha- 1 racter is so very distinct from the Greek and Roman ' style, that it is difficult, and perhaps useless here, to 1 mstitute a comparison between them ; while, at the same time, we must observe that this would require : numerous graphic illustrations, and entering into nu- ' merous details inconsistent with the plan of this work. Further information must therefore be sought for in works devoted expressly to this subject: for actual ex- amples the reader has only to look at the cathedrals and churches in most of our principal towns. Gothic ar- chitecture, in its various stages, prevailed all over the island for several centuries, from the time of Henry I. ecclesiastical purposes is generally acknowledged, which maybe seen in our ancient eccle- siastical buildings, aud the remains of monastic edifices. The houses of private individuals during that period were chiefly of timber, and were ornamented occasionally with parts in the same taste. 32. In the reign of Henry VII. a considerable change took place in the style of English Gothic architecture. The arches, which always before that time had been more or less high-pointed, as at fig. 12., were lowered, and formed by uniting portions of circles of different sizes, as Jig. 13. The windows of private houses were generally made rectangular, though di- vided by muUions, each bay being sometimes filled up with a low-pointed arch. Extremely ornamental chimney-tops were also displayed, giving altogether a peculiar character. Independently of the ccclesia.sti- cal architecture in this style — such as King's College Chapel in Cambridge, St. George's Chapel at Windsor, Henry VII.'s Chapel in Westminster, &c. — there are still remaining many perfect examples of domestic architecture, chiefly manor houses, of the times of Henry VII. and Henry VIII., and some so late as that of Queen Elizabeth. It has received by modem architects the title of the Tudor style, from the royal families during whose reigns it was general. See fig. 21. ^'ift-1^-