ON FOOD. 402 Book VII. ■wild state. In its natural state it is of a deep blue and ash colour, the breast of a change- able green and purple : on its wings are two bars of black; on the quill feathers another, and also black on the end of the tail; the back white. It inhabits the hollows of rocks and other similar situations. In its domestic or cultivated state the pigeon runs into a number of beautiful varieties, the culture of which forms a particular kmd of business : thus we have the carriers, croppers, pouters, horsemen, runts, and a number of others, known to the fancy breeders. 2076. The blue dove liouse pigeon is rather larger than the wild, and is the only variety that is bred up for the table in this country in great numbers in farm-yards. Tame pigeons live entirely on grain, peas, small beans, and seeds : they are very ravenous, par- ticularly when young, consuming a great deal of food, and, consequently, are costly. When young, and still fed by their parents, they are called squabs, and are then preferable for the table ; under six months old they are termed squeakers; and at six months they begin to breed: the old bird is tough, dry, and insipid. The flesh of pigeons is highly savoury, delicate, and stimulating, and is dressed in a great variety of ways, of which the most common with us is making it into pies. The dark-coloured pigeons are considered to have the highest flavour, but the light coloured to have the most delicate flesh. They breed fast, and when well supplied with food, will furnish squabs every month in the year. But they are kept less than formerly, being found extremely destructive to the crops, particularly of peas, the loss of which to the farmer is very considerable. Sect. XVI, LARK {Alauda arvensis, Linn.). 2077. The lively notes of this little songster cannot save it from the gormandising powers of man. 2078. Though so small, larks have, it seems, always been sought after as an exquisite morsel. They were not only caught, but reared and fattened for the Roman epicures; and our markets are abundantly supplied with them, being captured in the winter season, from September till February, in immense numbers, particularly about Dunstable, Cambridge, &c. It is remarkable that the propensity which they have to fly towards a light is con- verted into a method of decoying them. Mirrors reflecting the sun's rays are placed so as to revolve and attract them into nets placed to ensnare them. They are generally roasted many together on a lark spit, and are among our greatest delicacies. It is reckoned that 4000 dozen are annually sold in London. Sect. XVII. CBANE. 2079. TTie crane belongs to a class of birds called Grallee, or waders, distinguished by the length of their naked legs, walking, as it were, upon stilts, the signification of the Latin word grallse. The birds in this class are the crane, heron, stork, bittern, plover, snipe, coot, rail, and a few others. All of them seek their food, consisting of smaU fish, worms, and insects, in shallow water, and marshes, but they likewise eat grain. The crane is migra- tory, and now a rare visitant to us, though it was once a constant inhabitant of Britain, and was formerly so great a favourite, that there was a penalty for destroying its eggs. Its flesh is coarse, except when young. 2080. Tlie heron and stork are never eaten with us at present, although, like the crane, they were once common at feasts : in France the heron was formerly considered as royal game, and the young highly prized. 2081. 7%e bittern is a good deal like the heron, but shorter and rounder in its bodj". It is considered as an excellent bird, though less esteemed than it used to be. Sect. XVIIL SNIPE. 2082. This is a migratory bird, and one of those which are the most generally distri- buted over Europe. It prefers a cold climate to breed in, but is met with even in India. It is one of the waders, and frequents morasses and places where there is much water, and where worms are abundant; it feeds upon these, but likewise occasionally upon corn and rice. Sir H. Davy informs us that they are extremely fat and delicious during their migration from the north to the south in the marshes of Italy and Carniola, and then re- semble the ortolan of Italy. With us they are fattest in frosty weather, when they haunt only warm springs, where they find plenty of worms, or larva;. A few breed in the marshes of England, but more in the Hebrides and Orkneys.