ON FOOD. Book VII. 378 life, and to climb and sleep among rocky eminences. He is easily nourished, as he eats almost every plant, and is injured by few : but he does infinite harm to crops and young plantations by feeding on the shoots. The flesh, tallow, hair, skin, and milk, are all valuable. 1867. The domentic goat was ancimlhj held in much estimation as food; and in modern times, in districts where the animal is common, the haunches are freijuently salted and dried, serving instead of bacon. The Welsh call it hung venison, to which it is little inferior. The meat of the wedder goat is best; and, under the name of rock venison, is supposed to be little inferior to the flesh of deer. It is reckoned peculiarly nutritious in soup. In the West Indies the flesh both of the ewe and the wedder goat is accounted as good as mutton ; and Sir John Sinclair remarks that, both on account of the milk it produces, and its flesh and skin, it is a pity that the West Indian goat is not more attended to in this country. The flesh of the kid is a delicacy everywhere, though not very sapid ; in the East Indies it is preferred to lamb. The suet is whiter than .that of the ox, and is prefei-able for candles. The skin is employed for various kinds of leather ; and that of the kid is well known in gloves. The milk is abundant, and considered as more whole- some than that of any other animal; when mixed with cows' milk it makes excellent cheese. The goat is very prolific, bringing forth frequently two kids at a time, and often twice in a year. Formerly, they were very plentiful in Wales, but they have given place to a small breed of sheep which are more profitable; at present very few goats are to be seen there. As an article of food, of course, the flesh of this animal is now rare in Britain. 1868. Tlie chamois very much resembles the goat, and is one of the wildest and most timid of animals. Hunting it in the mountains of Switzerland is often a toilsome and dangerous employment; but its flesh is considered as good food, and a large one will weigh from fifty to seventy pounds. The Swiss salt and smoke the flesh ; and the use of the skin is well known. Sect. VIL RABBIT {Lepus cuniculus, Linn.). 1869. Tlie rabbit is an inhabitant of most temperate climates, but does not reach quite so far north as the hare. 1870. The loild rabbit is a native of this island, and is found in great numbers, burrow- ing in dry sandy soils, particularly if the situations be hilly or the ground irregular, such as the sandy districts of Norfolk and Cambridgeshire. Inclosures, called warrens, are frequently made in favourable spots of this kind, some of which extend to 2000 acres. Rabbits, not being swift-footed animals, are taken by nets, traps, ferrets, and dogs. The common wild rabbit is of a grey colour, and is the best for the purpose of food ; its skin is valuable, as the pelt is a material for hats ; but another variety has been lately introduced, tlie silver grey, the skin of which is more valuable, and is dressed as fur; the colour of this is a black ground thickly interspersed with single grey hairs : a great number of them are exported to China. 1871. Tame rabbits are also reared in hutches or boxes placed in apartments or sheds. They are easily fattened upon the same food as is given to cattle and sheep—roots, good green vegetables, hay, corn, and peas. 1872. The flesh of the rabbit diifers somewhat according to its wild or domesticated state. There is some difference of opinion as to which is preferable. The wild rabbit has more flavour; but some prefer the tame one as whiter and more delicate. Wild rabbits are procurable young and in good condition only at particular seasons, as from the end of October to the beginning of January ; but tame ones may be always bred in a state fit for the table. The latter are in greatest perfection when three months old; but, if well fed, will not be too old at eighteen months. The flesli of rabbits is inclined to be dry ; but feeding them partly on green vegetables makes it more juicy. They become larger and fatter in the tame than in the wild state; but it is not desirable to have them as fat as they can be made. Some that have been fed in coops have been known to exceed a dozen pounds in weight. When very old they are tough, like the hare. 1873. There are several varieties of tame rabbits. — The large white and yellow, and white variety, have the whitest and most delicate flesh, and, when cooked in the same way, sometimes rival the turkey. There is also a large variety of the hare colour, the flesh of which is high-flavoured, and more savoury than that of the common rabbit; and it makes a good dish cooked like the hare, which, at six or eight months old, it nearly equals in size. All these are to be had of the London dealers and poultry-nicn. llabbits may be easily bred in a small artificial warren where the ground is extremely dry and well drained by a ditch all round it, and having banks raised for the rabbits to burrow in. Food must bo provided as when bred in hutches. They are more prolific in their domesticated than in their wild and exposed state.