-^HAP. ir. SUBSTANCES EMPLOYED IN ITS PRODUCTION. 129 I vegetable oils have received the name of vegetable tallow or butter. The degree of cold at which oils congeal or become solid varies extremely. Of all the families of plants the cruciform is the richest in oleiferous seeds ; and next to ihhem are the Drupaeese and AmeutaceEP. Nuts contain half their weight of oil. The seeds 1 Df the Brassica oleracea and campestris one third ; and the variety called colza in France ivwo fifths. . . , i, . ,> •, 588. We shall treat first of animal oik used for light: and afterwards of vegetable oils. SuBSECT. 2.—Fish Oils. 589. Tlie oils most extensively used in Britain for procuring light are the fish oils. Oil is Libbtained from several species offish, and these vary somewhat in their qualities. 590. Tlie best of these is spermaceti oil, usually advertised as sperm oil. This is, as we sstated when describing spermaceti, the oil which drains from the crude spermaceti found im the head of the spermaceti whale, and also from the fat or blubber. AVhen analysed, it is found to consist of carbon 78-00, hydrogen 11-80, oxygen 10-20. l(t afi'ords a clear, bright flame, without smell, and it is on that account generally burned lin Argand lamps in the best apartments in Britain: but several of the finer kinds of whale and seal oil, when purified by forcing them through animal charcoal, are often sold !>for it. The spermaceti whale does not confine itself to the polar regions, but is found in .iall latitudes, and abundantly in the equatorial regions, on the coast of Brazil, the Gulph oof Guinea, the coasts of Australia, and Van Dieman's Land, and in great numbers on that cof Japan. The sperm whale is gregarious, herds of four or five himdred sometimes con- igregating together : and the taking of them is accompanied with great danger. In 1836, '''G083 tons of sperm oil were imported into London. The price having greatly increased iiof late, the consumption of it is much less, cheaper fish oils being employed, and likewise vvegetable oils. 591. Greenland oil, or commmi train oil, is the produce of the whale called Balcena }Mi/sticetus. The fat or blubber of this animal lies under the skin and over the muscular tiflesh : it is usually about six inches in thickness, but about the under lip it is two or three fiffeet thick. The whole quantity yielded by one of these animals ordinarily amounts to iforty or fifty, and sometimes to eighty or more hundred weights. Its use in the animal aappears to be partly that of poising the body of that enormous creature, and partly to keep iiits flesh warm in the cold regions which it frequents. Formerly, the boiling down the Vblubber into train oil was performed where the whales were caught; but of late, it has ^become the practice to pack it up in casks after it is cut ofiE, and to bring it home to ex- rtract the oil. In young whales, this fatty matter resembles hog's lard; but in old animals lit is of a reddish colour. When the blabber arrives in England, it is generally somewhat rrancid, and to separate the oil, it is put into a large reservoir that will hold about twenty I tuns, in the bottom of which there is a wire grating to suffer the oil to drain through and sstop the blubber. The membraneous matter tha£ remains is called finks, and is burnt i into animal charcoal. The oil that is run out is led into another vessel, where it is left !'for two or three days to settle ; and after that it is put into a copper and heated to 225°. TThis causes the mucilaginous matter to settle to the bottom, and destroys the rancidity of I the oil. To prevent the adhesion of the mucilage to the bottom of the-boiler, some water i-is poured on the top of the oil when it has cooled by drawing off the fire : the water fpasses down through the oil to the bottom, and, uniting to the mucilage, prevents its iiadhesion. The purified oil at the top is then run off into casks for use. This oil is of a reddish or yellowish colour : when burned in common lamps, it gives • out a strong, unpleasant odour, particularly if unpurified, and therefore is seldom employed within doors, but confined to street lamps, and other out-of-door purposes. 1 Burnt in an Argand lamp, the oil gives no bad smell, but a quantity of oily matter (Collects upon the wick, which clogs up the passage for air, and impedes the combustion. I By purification, indeed, it may be rendered more limpid, and its odour less offensive; tbut it is always inferior to spermaceti oil. By recent improvements in lamps, which will the described, it is burned without any bad smell, and without clogging the wicks. 592. The Whale fishery is of great antiquity ; and the Norwegians are supposed to have 'been the first who attempted the perilous enterprise of killing the whale. The Biscayans (engaged in a regular whale fishei-y in the 12th century ; but the whales then caught were ' of a small size, and were employed as food : whalebone appears to have been then used I for the first time. Greenland whales now seldom frequent the Bay of Biscay, confining I themselves to the icy seas, where their haunts are eagerly sought for. When the whale I fishery was first prosecuted on the coast of Spitzbergen, the whales appeared in great I numbers, and, showing no signs of fear, were easily taken : but as the animals began to 1 experience the effects of the stratagems and power of man, they retreated, first to the open ■ sea, and finally under the great banks of ice. Greenland whales are now becoming more : scarce, probably on account of the great destruction made of thein; and on this account