Book VII. 492 ON FOOD. grow in England, but though an evergreen in wanner climates, with us it loses its leaves in the winter, and the fruit does not ripen in the open air. 2703. The fruit is smooth and oval, about three quarters of an ineh in length, and half an ineh in diameter, being about the size of a small plum. When ripe it is of a deep violet colour, whitish and fleshy within ; it is rather bitter, and to many nauseous, but has its pulp replete with a bland oil, and with an oblong, pointed, rough nut in the interior. In Greece, and also in Portugal, the fruit is eaten in its ripe state, but its taste is not agree- able. They are prepared for food in two ways; one is simply to cut and soak them in salt and water, adding a few hei'bs to give them a flavour; the other is to dry them in the sun, -whereby they become black ; they are then put into jars, with oil, salt, and pepper, or other spices, adding also a few herbs. When eaten, they are invariably flavoured with oil and a little vinegar. The Italian shepherd often takes nothing to the field with him but a little bread, a flask of wine, and a horn of olives ; indeed, bread and olives form a nutritive diet. Fashion has done much in this country to introduce and create an acquired taste for green pickled olives at the dessert. They are chiefly talcen with a view to remove the taste of the viands from the mouth, previously to enjoying the flavour pf wine. Three kinds of olives come to London, Italian, French, and Spanish. The former are the best, and are from Lucca : the French are from Provence, and are also excellent: the Spanish are larger, but more bitter. 2704. Olives are pickled in the following manner: — Being gathered before thej' are ripe, they are suffered to steep in water for some days, and afterwards are put into a ley of water and barilla, with the ashes of olive stones calcined, or with lime ; and after remaining there a sufficient time, are bottled or barrelled with salt and water. They are thought to promote digestion and give appetite. 2705. But olives are chieflij cultivated for the oil which the;/ produce, ani which, in the coun- tries where they grow, forms as necessary an article in the culinary art as butter with us. Olive oU, called also salad oil, is also largely used in Britain for the more delicate parts of our cookery, instead of butter, and is an useful addition to salads, preventing them from running into fermentation, and producing flatulency. When the fruit is ripe, it is put into a bag of rushes, and the oil is forced out by gentle pressure. The first affords the virgin or best oil; a second quality is procured by a pressure sufficient to break the kernels. After the oil has been drawn, it deposits mucilage, and when sufficiently clear it is put into clean flasks, as we receive it. The greatest part of our best oil comes from Italy, and is known by the name of Florence, Lucca, and GaUipoli oil. Some is also brought from Spain and the Grecian islands. When quite fresh and pure, it has very little taste or smell, and is quite transparent, havmg only a pale greenish tint. It is sometimes adulterated with poppy oil. Sect. IV. CHANGE TRIBE. 2706. To the orange tribe or genus ^Citrus) belong the sweet orange, the Seville, or bitter orange, the letnon, the citron, the lime, and the shaddock. They are all remarkable for containing much citi ic acid in their juice, and a very odoriferous and inflammable, acrid, essential oil in their outer rind. Besides these principles, they also contain the malic acid, and more or less of the saccharine and bitter principles. In the orange the sugar is prevalent, but in the Seville orange the bitter principle prevails. The acid varieties are much used in medicine, and in the manufacture of cooling drinks ; the sweet varieties are esteemed for the dessert, and the bitter as stomachics. The rind aff'ords the essential oil of lemon and bergamot; and from the flowers a fragrant aromatic water is distilled. The unripe or abortive fruits, called Cura9oa oranges, are used to flavour the delicious liqueur called Curagoa. They are natives of the warmer parts of Asia, though they have been long introduced into the West Indies, the tropical parts of America, the Atlantic isles, and the warmer parts of Europe. SuBSECT. 1. — Sweet Orange {Citrus Aurantttmi). 2707 This very useful and agreeable fruit gives us a striking instance of the advantages of commerce Although the production only of countries much warmer than our own, we enioy it nearly at the price of our ordinary fruits; and this is the more important, since it is perhaps, the most refreshing and healthy of all the fruits of warm countries. It is calculated that about 27,000,000 oranges are annually imported mto England, and they are brought without any preparation farther than wrappmg each separately m paper, and packing them in boxes. . , j r xi. Most of the oranges and lemons intended for exportation are gathered before they are quite ripe • for if they were mature, they would spoil in the carriage. The gathering of them for the British market usually occupies from the beginning of October to