371 QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD. llHAP. III. B b 2 wt some butchers resort to cruel prnctices ; sucli as suspendmj,' calves by the hind legs with the heads ow.nvards, and bleeding them thus to death slowly lor the purpose of wliue.iing the veal. \A S/>en> ar,d wmc other animals appear to have an inslwctive dread oj blm>d, a,id cannot be readdy Jduced to go where it is found in their track, on which account it is extremely difficult to make them enter .uuRliter-houses, which has given rise to scenes of uproar and brutality. The Society lor the I'reventio.i of -rueltv to Animals have recentlv carried plans into practice m hitechapel market, which ina great measure ..viate this difficulty. They tfike care to place hurdles covered with straw over the kennels (m market lUVsT and near the entrance of the slaughter-house a skin of a sheep, stulled so as to resemb e the living 1 iimal, is placed on wheels and kept iu motion: this is readily followed by the sheep, without the necessity I empioymg coercion by men and dogs. Chap. HI. QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD. Sect. I. INTRODUCTION. 11822. Quadrupeds are divided into two great classes, according to the substances on laich they subsist, which modify, in a considerable degree, their properties when ein- noyed as human food. These are the carnivorous an'd herbivorous classes, or those which eid upon the flesh of other animals, and those which live on vegetables. Beasts of prey « o-enerally lean : their fibres are tough, and the flesh coarse and disagreeable : they are rver employed as food in any part of the world, except among savage tribes, or in cases I necessity. Herbivorous animals afford the most agreeable, as well as the most whole- nme nutriment. Animals of these classes do not readily change the nature of their food, II when they are brought to do so by the influence of domestication, their flesh partakes t this change. Thus dogs, which are naturally carnivorous animals, when fed entirely l on vegetables, as in the islands of the Pacific, were found by Europeans to be excellent laen cooked. Some animals are partly carnivorous and partly herbivorous : of this kind ;lthe hog. The bear is chiefly a carnivorous genus ; but the brown bear, parts of which fj eaten in Northern Russia, and also in North America, is an herbivorous animal. 11823. The flesh of quadrupeds varies considerably in colour, and occasions a distinction ttween red or brown, and ivhite meals. The red colour, when raw, depends upon having a eeat number of small arteries, and, consequently, more globules of red blood, interspersed iflong the muscular fibres. White meats are considered as the least stimulating, and, in oaeral, are the most gelatinous. T!ie effect produced upon different animals by the food tlh which they are supported, as well as other circumstances relating to their habits, we been carefully described by naturalists. It is remarkable that all the researches of •Tellers, aided by the lights of zoological science, have hitherto failed to ascertain the loe originals of most of our domesticated animals ; and it is known that some of these 1 longer exist but as the servants of mankind. 11824. Tlie supply of animal food to the United Kingdom has of late years very much -reased, and, of course, the consumption. This must be attributed to the improvements agriculture, particularly the extension of the turnip and clover cultivation, by which a Iter abundance of food for the cattle has been produced: the breeds have also been oved in the weight and quantit}' of the meat and of the milk. This kind of meliora- 1 began in the last century, and was the result, in a gl'cat measure, of the skill and t rprise of Mr. Bakewell of Dishley, and Mr. CuUey of Northumberland. Their success -i d a spirit of emulation, and the rapid increase of wealth arising fi'om commerce and ifactures produced a greater demand for butcher's meat, r 82.5. In the following description of quadrupeds employed as food, we shall first describe •ength those which are consumed in Great IJritain, and then slightly notice some others It are not used for this purpose among us, although they arc in some parts of the world. Sect. II. THE OX {Bos, Linn.). ■826. 77(6 tribe of animals which naturalists designate by the name of Bos consists of 'iral species, each of which is divided into many varieties, which arise from climate, I lestication, and other cau.ses. The principal species are the common domesticated I the buffalo, and the bison : the first only is known to Britain. I '827. The common domestic ox {Bos taurus. Linn.), in the earliest ages of society, I aame an object of interest and regard ; for we read in Genesis that " there was a strife j ween the herdsmen of Abraham's cattle and the herdsmen of Lot's cattle : " the flocks ':!ach of which were so numerous that " the land was not able to bear them, and they lild not dwell together." The ox became a propitiatory sacrifice in the case of Abel's -ring up the firstlings of his flock, and Abraham was directed to sacrifice n heifer as