MANAGEMENT OF THE WINE-CELLAR. HAP. TV. 645 «e for an hour. Brisk Champagne is also improved by being kept m ice before it is Irrunk, as this tends to repress the effervescence, if that is too frothy. When tlie glass is nntirely filled with froth, on pouring out the contents of the bottle, the better qualities of hhe -wine and the spirit evaporate. The still wines of Pierre and Sillery keep better than hde sparkling kinds. _ ■ , 36->6. Port, as it is manufactured for Britain, requires to be kept several years in the wood, nnd as much more in the bottle, in order to destroy the fiery strength of the brandy with which I; is mLxed ; but before that time completely arrives, the vinous characteristics are some- , '.nmes gone. It then loses part of its colour and strength, becoming what is c&llei tawmj; Hiut though it has become more mellow, it does not then possess the original qualities of hae pure juice of the Oporto grape. Its fitness for bottling and drinking is best judged of )\y occasional trials. It is so hardy a wine, that even the cellars under the streets of the liaetropolis will little injure its quality, which is not the case with other kinds. 3627. The dry wines of the south of Europe, as sherry, Madeira, Canary, &c. endure lOT a long time, and should be kept in a warm temperature. Madeira is even improved i\y heat and agitation, which is the reason for sending it to the East and West Indies. 3628. The sweetest wines not only keep the longest, but are, in fact, scarcely fit to drink :! 11 they have acquired considerable age, as they are in a perpetual state of melioration. I Phe thinnest and briskest are those alone which may, or rather which ought, to be drunk ii hen comparatively new. Sweet wines, the fermentation of which has been perfect, can- x)t readily become sour, because their ferment, having been e-xpended by these processes, x> more remains to excite any fermentation that may run to acid. Neither can wine that aas been made dry have much tendency to acidity, for the same reason. 33629. T/ie establishment oj Ihe London Docks lias proved a very great convenience to wine-merchants in the I Htropolis, who are not now, as formerly, obliged to keep wine in casks for years in their cellars. The wine i-ow generally remains in the cask in the warehonses at the docks until it is fit for bottling. Many of the hoove observations, therefore, respecting the periods for which wine should be kept, are of less importance at rresent to the general than to the dock nierthiints ; and few private individuals keep much foreign wine in L'lSks. But we considered the above remarks as a necessary part of the history of wines, and which could not nroperly be omitted. J3630. The removing (\f some wines to a distance is often an affair of great difliculty, particularly the more lillcate wines of France, some of which can scarcely be moved without injury. The best season for remnv- \ig these, and, indeed, wines of every kind, is the spring and autumn, w hen the weather is mild. Cold or hot 1 -eather are prejudicial to the carriage of most wines. If transported in wood, particularly in hot seasons, V should be racked before they are removed, to prevent the lees mixing with the wine, occasioning fer- tation ; if in bottles they should be decanted. The most delicate bottled wines are best packed in strong s. each bottle being wrapped in cartridge paper, and bedded in straw. In this way wine has been success- liy carried to India. J StTBSECT. 7. — Diseases of Wine and their Hemedies. ' 3631. Amongst the morbid changes to which wine is liable, one of the most common is acidity ; delicate thin and weak wines are most subject to this alteration ; in these, on the least crease of temperature, or even on their removal, the fermentation is apt to recommence, liich leads to the acetous process. This may be checked at the beginning ; but after it established, the wine is incurable. The acetous acid, when once formed, can • ily be got rid of by neutralising or destroying it. For this purpose, alkalies and V kaline earths may be employed : but the alkalies, soda or potash, form soluble salts with e acetic acid or vinegar, and impart a disagreeable taste to the wine. Calcareous earth, insisting of chalk or lime, is the best substance to use, as the neutral salt which this mis with the acetic acid of the wine is insoluble in it, and forms a precipitate, which :iy be removed by fining. Eggs and oyster shells are the same as chalk. It was i-merly the practice to employ lead, in some form or other, for counteracting acidity in mes ; but we trust that this very dangerous practice has long been laid aside, the 'isonous nature of this metal being now generally known. 'i632. What i<! technically called pricked wines are those in which there is a slight com- ncement of acidity. All wines have naturally more or less of some acid, but in pricked lies it is the acetous acid which prevails. It has been shown that the principal object the racking, fining, and sulphuring of wines is to clear the liquor from the lees, which ntain a portion of the fermenting principle, and would re-excite the fermentation if tTered to mix again with it. Turbid wine may be considered as always in a preca- iiis state, since it is constantly in danger of having the fermentation renewed, and con- |uently in running into the acetous state. It should therefore be borne in mind, that eness is not merely a quality to please the eye, but that it is essential to the durability the liquor. i')33. A method of recovering pricked wines has been recommended, and may be tried by the following ex- iments. Take a bottle of red port that is pricked, .ind add to it half an ounce of tartarised spirit of wine ; ike the liquor well together, and set it by for a few days, .and it will be found very remarkably altered for better. The introduction of ,in alkaline salt, such as t.irtar imbibed by spirit of wine, has a direct power neutralise the acidity, the spirit of wine also contrlliuting to preserve the wine. If this operation be vternusly performed, pricked wines m,ay be recovered by it, and remain good for some time. If a small mtlty oralk.ili does not succeed, and the .add fermentation continues, it will be necessary to stop it by rack- ; the wine into a cask strongly fumigated with brimstone, and then to clear it with whites of eggs, and T t 3 II