PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1242 Book XXVI. persons, every return of such inflammation is productive of harm ; the substance -ffhich, ■when deposited in the lungs, constitutes the disease has much less chance of removal, when every few days, a cold, moist wind, or a sudden dry east wind, sets in and augments the cough by adding little inflammations to the evils already present. A respirator is also useful, by rendering the air entering the lungs of a more equable temperature. Con- finement in rooms kept warmed has also this good effect, but this mode of treatment has the disadvantage of diminishing health by want of due exercise, and by the exclusion of fresh air. These remarks are made in the most general manner, as in every case the medical man must give such directions as are demanded by the particular state of the person; and hardly any two cases of consumption demand exactly the same minutiae of treatment, although most of them agree in the main points. SuBSECT. 13.—Indigestion or Dyspepsia. 7284. If one were to enter fully into the subject of indigestion, one might write a volume in the place of a few paragraphs; it would be necessary to consider the various kinds, and the diet and the medicines necessary for each: but, as several works on diet and regimen, and which necessarily comprise the subject of indigestion, have been published within the last few years, we shall make no apology for dismissing this disorder in a few lines. A person is in common language said to be dyspeptic, when the appetite is impaired or lost, when there is a load and weight at the stomach after taking food, with eructations of gas, and sometimes of an acid fluid, into the mouth ; accompanying these symptons is nausea, and occasionally sickness, with a tense headache at the back of the head, or localised over the eyes ; very often also there are dark specks before the eyes, and the eyes themselves look heavy yellow, with a dark circle beneath. The tongue is red ; the papilla; small, but elongated, and the organ itself enlarged, indented by the teeth, or pale and enlarged in the same way, or covered with a white or yellow fur; the bowels are costive; the water high-coloured, and with a red, or more ra^ly a whitish, sediment. Such ai-e a few of the more prominent symptoms of the difFerenWLinds. With regard to the treatment, this must be left to the physician. We may remark that the practice of taking wine and spirits to force appetite cannot be too much condemned ; it is as bad as the indiscriminate use of tonics, which used to be the routine practice of the half-edu- cated medical men of former days ; in many cases the mucous membrane is in a state approaching to inflammation, and the treatment is by means of leeches, counter-irritants, alterative medicines, and a diet light, unirritating, and strictly adhered to; however, in a certain class of cases, tonics, wine, and a generous diet, are to be used ; but the discrimi- nating between these two very opposite cases must be left to the physician. We may remark, that some very insidious and dangerous chronic abdominal complaints are ushered in by dyspeptic symptoms; these are generally treated by the patient himself, and generally also aggravated by such treatment; we strongly recommend all dyspeptics to apply for competent aid, if they find their complaints to resist their own treatment for two or three weeks. SuBSECT. 14 Nettle-rash. 7285. The only diseases of the cutaneous class which we think it necessary to mention are nettle-rash, ringworm, and the itch. Some persons are much troubled with nettle-rash; a complaint arising from the use of certain articles of food, shell-fish, fruit. &c. In some persons, these produce, after a few hours, feelings of tingling of the skin, aud then itching and a little burning; soon after the itching has commenced, wheals appear on the skin; these are of a white colour, and the skin around them is often very red; the face is swelled, the eyes closed, and often with all this there is a feeling of nausea and weight at the pit of the stomach. The best treatment is to dislodge the offending matter by an emetic of ipecacuanha (eighteen grains or one scruple of the powder for an adult), and afterwards a brisk aperient should be taken; the warm bath often gives much relief; in severe cases, medical aid is necessary. ScBSECT. 15.—Jiingwonn. 728r). Many different diseases of the scalp arc popularly termed ringworm ; to dis- tinguish between these is often a matter of great difliculty, even for a medical man : it is however extremely important, as some forms are contagious, that is to say, are transmitted from one aft'ected person to one unaffected; and parents are necessarily very anxious to know whether their children must bo separated or not from their playfellows or ordinary companions. If an eruption be noticed on a child's head, it is very useful to observe exactly its appearance ; whether there are little vesicles ; whether the fluid in these isclcir or wliite, or light or dark yellow ; whether these little vesicles arc pomled or flatlcncd.