318 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. assurance to assert that tliese alloys are quite equal to silver itself ; but the fact is, that in their best state tliey are only equal to badly-cleaned, or somewhat tarnished silver, and never equal the beauty of that metal, nor of any metal properly plated with silver. It is true that, being solid, or the same throughout, tliey do not show any other metal on the edges in wear, as in the case of copper plated with silver; and in some cases, where they are kept well cleaned, they have their use, as far as relates to economy. With respect to their being absolutely free from all deleterious ingredients, we believe this statement to be incorrect, and that the hardest and best of them will be found, on analysis, to contain copper, although the quantity may be too small to cause any alarm as to its use. 1408. Electro-plaliny, the new process of silver-plating by means of the galvanic bat- tery, we nientioned under " Gilding ;" and it is applied with peculiar success to covering articles with silver, so as to equal the best of the other methods of plating in appearance at least, and at less expense. This method has likewise this advantage, that old plated articles w ■ ch have been worn so that the copper is exposed, and which could not be replated by any former process, can by this be restored to their first appearance. This may be easily understood by considering the process of Sheffield plating, which is such that the ornaments are forced up after the plating is completed, and therefore fresh silver cannot be applied to them ; but in the electro process, the whole, ornaments and all, being merely plunged into the metallic solution, the most complicated enrichments are as easily covered with silver as the plainest work. In electro-plating new articles, instead of copper as a ground to plate upon, a white silvery looking alloy is employed, of the kind called nickel silver, or albata, which, from its white colour, does not appear so much when the edges are worn as copper. The advantages of this mode of plating are so great that it will, in all probability, eft'ect a complete revolution in the art. 1409. Tlic sliglit silvering given to cerlain articles, as the faces of clocks and barometers, buttons, and similar things, is effected by dissolving silver in some acid, and occasioning a precipitation of it upon the surface of the metal, which is almost always copper or brass. But though some of these modes of silvering look well when burnished, they soon wear, from the thinness of the coating of silver. The Silvered faces of clocks will not bear cleaning, and therefore they are varnished. A slight mode of silvering, sufficient for some purposes, as the engraved breast plates for coffins, is produced in the following manner : — Two parts of silver powder precipitated from a nitric solution of coinmon salt, one part of alum, and two parts of cream of tartar. These ingredients are made into a sort of paste with water. After cleaning the copper thoroughly, this paste is rubbed upon it by means of the finger covered with soft leather or fine muslin. \^Tien the piece is sufficiently whitened, it may be polished by the application of a buff powdered with calcined hartshorn, or a little Spanish white. 1410. The prodigious increase of the quantity of plate vianufactured in England is a striking proof of the progress of luxury. In 1828 (according to a statement made by^ Mr. Huskinson in the House of Commons) the assay duty on plate amounted to 105,000/. for 17,790 lbs. of gold and 1,186,973 lbs. of silver manufactured into plate in one year. This is four times the amount of the precious metals manufactured in France, and is reckoned even equal to one third of all that is manufactured in Eui'ope. cpiAP. xvin. ON CUTLERY. Under the head of cutlery are comprised all cutting instruments of iron or steel, as knives and forks, scissors, razors, &c. Sect. I. KNIVES AND FORKS, WITH VARIOUS CUTTING INSTRUMENTS. 1411. So f(imiliar are we at present with the use of knives, forks, and other iniplenicnts for cutting up and assisting us to eat our food, that many persons have little idea lunv modern are these inventions; and it is curious to contemplate what must have been the condition of society before they were in common use. The history of knives and forks alone would furnish matter for an interesting essay : we can only touch upon a few points that may tend to fix in the mind the relative importance of this portion of domestic fur- niture. If we look to those insulated tribes, now few in number, timt have not yet acquired the use of metals, we perceive that their knives are formed of sharp splinters of certain stones, and of shells. Selected splinters of flint, and particularly of obsidian, have sliarp