Chap. IX. 693 VARIOUS ORDINARY BEVERAGES. water for the drink of their soldiers. M. Denon Infoims us that he experienced great benefit from a drink made of vinegar, water, and sugar, when in the burning climate of Upper Egypt. In some districts of Eng- land and Scotland, the labourers during harvest use no other beverage than milk and water, buttermilk or whey orten sour; and, though they are glad to get beer or ale, confess that they are sooner thirsty again after drinking either than after milk and water or whey. 39.i7. Raspberry vinegar and water. — liaspherry vinegar is made by squeezing the juice of three quarts of raspberries mto a quart of vinegar, and then simmering the vinegar for about a quarter of an hour, with two pounds of sugar, in ,in earthen pipkin not gUazed with lead. Wlien cold, it is to be corked ; and a small spoonful of this in a glass of water makes a very cooling and relreshiuR drink. a9-T8. Cream of tartar is much used for a cooling drink in warm weather: sugar and the rind of lemon may be added. Half au ounce of cream of tartar will do for a quart of water, which should be boiling ; strain when cold. 3959. Table beer, when fresh, is perhaps, upon the whole, the very best, or at least the most wholesome common beverage we have ; and it was so considered by the late Dr. Babington. Sect. II. BEVERAGES CONSISTING OF WATER IMPREGNATED WITH CARBONIC ACID GAS, TOGETHER WITH CERTAIN SALINE INGREDIENTS. Fig. 570. 3960. General remarks A class of beverages has of late years come into use, consisting chiefly of water impregnated with carbonic acid gas. It has been long known that many mineral waters, such as the Seltzer and Pyrmont, owe their brisk sparkling appearance and agreeable acidulous taste to carbonic acid ; and to this, likewise, many of their medical virtues are attributed. Experiment has shown that water, under the usual pressure of the atmosphere, absorbs about double its own bulk of this gas when brought into contact with it, and that this absorption is increased considerably by agitation and pressure. It became a practice, therefore, to imitate, by artificial means, these mineral waters, and to use them occasionally as a beverage. The carbonic acid was easily produced, and, by proper apparatus, water was made to absorb it; also, some- times, those saline ingredients were added which chemical analysis liad demonstrated to exist in the natural mineral waters. 3961. For the purpose qf impregnating water with carbonic acid gas, nettling more is necessary than to put some pieces of pounded marble or chalk into a bottle, a, Jig. 570 ,, and to add some diluted sulphuric or muriatic acid : a glass tube, b, bent to a proper shape, must be inserted into the cork of the bottle, through which the gas generated by the action of the acid upon tlie carbonate of lime can pass into another vessel, e, previou.'Iy tilled with water, and inverted, with its mouth below the surface oJ water, in a basin or trough, d. Jig. 570. The gas will expel the water in the vessel c, and occupy its i)lace. "When the vessel is half empty, cork it under water, and, taking it out, shake the water, whicli causes it to. absorb the air and become .icidulous. 3962. Nooth's apparatus was one of the earliest contrivances for causing water to absorb carbonic acid, or making aerated water; and, about forty years ago, tliis was employed to a considerable extent, and might frequently be seen standing upon the sideboard, pre|)aring >a cooling beverage of the same kind as our present soda water, though much less powerful. This apjjaratus, which may still be useful in imitating mineral waters, and which has an elegant appearance, consists of three glass vessels, a, b, c jig. 571., fitting into each other, yet capable of being easily detached. Into the middle vessel, b, is put the water to be impregnated ; and into the lower one, c, is put some white marble or chalk coarsely pounded, together with dilute muriatic or other acid, which, by its action upon the chalk, sets free the carbonic acid gas which has been fixed in it, and hence had been named "fixed air." The gas thus disengaged ascends through a glass valve in the neck of the vessel b, the valves permitting the air to ascend but preventing the water from coming down : the greater part of the gas is absorbed by the water in b; but a part is not absorbed, and this rises through the tube into the upper vessel, a, which also contains some water, and lastly, what still re- mains unabsorbed escapes through its neck at the top, in which a heavy glass stopper, fitting in loosely, acts as a valve to confine it until its force becomes too great; and tlius there is no danger of tlie glass vessel bursting by the extrication of the gas, which would be the case was tliere no valve. As the weight of the water in a i)re.. vents the air from rising into it until it has acquired so mucli force as to overcome that weight, the gas is subjected to a degree of pres- sure much greater than that merely of the atmosphere ; and hence the absorption is proportionally increased, although this pressure falls far short of the means at present resorted to. By adding iron to the water, a small quantity was dissolved, and thus an arlincial chaly- beate may be produced; and, by the addition of salts. Seltzer and other mineral waters may be imitated. The prepared water in the vessel b is drawn off by a glass stop-cock, and the materials for making the gas are introduced through a glass stopper in the lower vessel. Tlioiigh this apparatus has been long (lut of fashion, yet it is within the recollection of many persons still living. „. ^963. .4 great number oJ simple contrivances have been invented /'/g. 5/1. l^lm p,ir]iose of impregnating water with carbonic acid, one of 'lilch consists of a small cask fixing upon a horizontal axis like a barrel churn, which is half filled with ure water ; carbonic acid gas is let into this cask through a tube that conducts it from the vessel in which . is generated in the same way as in Nooth's apparatus from chalk or marble and diluted acid. The bung f the cask must be kept open till all the common air has been driven out by the carbonic gas, which may c known by bringing a lighted taper to the bung ; if the light is extinguished at once, it is certain that tlic lare above the water i« occupied by the gas generated. 'I'bc bung being now securelj' fastened down, the i.«k Is whirled round occasionally to agitate the water and Increase the absorption. The vessel for gene- ntlng the gas m.ny be of glass or earthenware, i;s a large bottle ; and a safety-valve should be contrived imewherc upon the tube that conducts it to the b:irrel to pi event accidents from the elasticity of the gas. 3961. Impregnating water with carbonic acid, and making what is called soda-walcr, is now managed n an extensive scale by ra.anufacturers who have very perfect apparatus for this purpose, in which con.Milcr- ble pressure and agitation arc employed; but, as ...oda-wator is now sold in almost every corner of the Y y 3