238 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 1106. Flowers should never he kept in bed-chambers or nurseries, as they give out car- bonic acid during the night, and consequently injure the air of the apartment. 1107. Floioer-stands, called jardinieres, are for keeping cut flowers fresh for some time by putting them into wet sand, kept in a japanned tin tray that fits on the top of the stand. This is covered with a trellis work of wire or pierced tm, in the apertures of which the stems of the flowers are put to keep them upright. Fig. 234. is a small stand of this kind to be placed on a table. Fig. 235. is a small one to stand on the floor. Fig. 236. is a larger one. Fig. 237. is a stand for a flower-pot. Fig. 238. is a stand for several flower-pots. Figs. 239. and 240. are smaller stands for flower-pots. In Jig. 240. the pots are concealed by moss. Fig. 241. is an economical stand for cut flowers, made of tin and wire painted. 'When full, it forms a pyramid of flowers. 1108. Hie pot-pourri, so called by the French, is made of combining the odours of various flowers, by put- ting their petals into vases or china jars placed in apartments. For this purpose, a great variety of flowers are employed, as orange flowers, rose leaves, pinks, marjoram, thyme, la- vender, rosemary, camomile, melilot, sweet basil, balm, jessamine, &c. These are mixed together, and some salt is added, and well stirred among them to preserve them ; the perfimie will last for many montlis ; and some- times odoriferous gums are added, as benzoin, and, in short, any sweet-smelling substances, as cinnamon, musk, &c., which may compound such a perfume as is most agreeable. The jars are kept covered, except when the perfume is wanted. A71 English pot-pourri is described as consisting of violets, jasmine, lavender, clove- gilly flowers, rosemary flowers, knotted marjoram, balm of Gilead, damask roses, orris root, gum benjamin and storax, musk, cloves. Another, orange flowers, clove-gilly flowers, damask roses, knotted marjoram, lemon thyme, rosemary, mint, lavender, rind of lemon, cloves, all chopped and salt between. If the whole cannot be salted at once, put them in as they can be had. Sect. VI. SIDEBOARDS. 1109. Sideboards are generally made of fine mahogany, and more or less enriched with carving and other ornaments. Small sideboards are often of the kind called pedestal sidc- board.<i,fiq. 242., having on each side doors inclosing shelves or drawers for holding plate, liquors, or other similar articles; at the bottom may be a deep drawer with partitions.