ON POOD. Book Ml. 382 SuBSECT. 3. — Artificial Coagulation of Milk. 1921. To produce the kind of cougulum, or curd, necessary to make clieese, some sub- stance must he added to the milk for that purpose : the material usually employed in this country is rennet, a liquid procured by boiling a portion of the inner coat of the stomach of young ruminating animals, particularly that of the calf; and it is kept salted aud cured for this purpose. The effect produced by the rennet is owing to some of the gas- tric juice of the calf's stomach, which adhered to it, and which is thought to be somewhat of an acid nature. To coagulate, or turn the milk, as it is called, into curds and whey, it is heated to about 00° or 100° before the rennet is added. The proper quantity of rennet, and the just degree of heat, can only be learned by a little practice. To make rennet, the inside of tTie stomach of pigs will also answer, and even the membrane that lines the inside of the gizzard of fowls and turkeys; this last makes the gallino rennet of Ital)'. Many other substances will coagulate or turn milk besides rennet — vinegar and acids of all kinds ; and the Dutch employ muriatic acid instead of rennet, which is said to be the cause of the pungent relish for which their cheese is remarkable. Many astrin- gent vegetables also have this effect ; likewise alcohol, molasses, gelatine, and many neutral salts. The Jews employ ladies bed straw {Galium vcrum) to coagulate their milk in the making of cheese, the Mosaic law forbidding them to mingle meat with milk ; and rennet they consider as meat. 1922. There is a considerable difference between the curd formed by the spontaneous al- teration of milk and that by an artificial process. That produced by spontaneous coagu- lation is much less solid, and readily unites with water; what is artificially produced is much more firm and is insoluble in water. Pure curd is casein, very analogous to gum and to albumen, although it differs in some respects from both; by boiling it with an alkali, or lime, it becomes a soluble substance that dries very hard and transpai-ent like gum, and may be employed as a cement. 1923. Curd, casein, or caseous matter, the basis of cheese, is, when fresh, white, insipid, inodorous, and insoluble in water. When just made, a portion of whey adheres to it, but when that is removed by pressure and drying, it becomes cheese. The white colour of milk is owing to the curd being intimately mixed up with it. SuBSECT. 4. — Wliey. 1924. The whey ivhich remains after the separation of the curd in the artificial coagulation of milk by rennet is a thin fluid, yellowish green and almost transparent, having an agreeable sweetish taste, in which respect it differs from spontaneously formed whey, which is always distinctly acid. The whey of the dairy retains a little oily matter, or butter, and some unseparated curd. If it be boiled, a whitish scum rises to the surface, and the liquor becomes turbid ; but, upon being set to cool, the matter which rendered it turbid falls down, leaving the liquid quite clear. The scimi which rises is somewhat analogous to cream, and is capable of affording butter. 1925. The principal ingredient of whey is water with lactic acid; the proportion of curd or casein, butter, and sugar, is very small; hence we should not expect to find whey very nutritive ; yet it seems to be well calculated as an article of diet in certain states of the constitution, and in febrile complaints ; and, containing always a little acid, it is found to be cooling and refreshing. Besides the saccharine matter and lactic acid, whey contains several saline substances in solution, as a small quantity of muriate of potash, muriate of soda, phosphate of lime and of iron, and sulphate of potash. If whey, by the spontaneous coagulation, be long kept, it becomes very sour; but in this state it is a wholesome and refreshing beverage for labouring people. 1926. Besides rennet whey there are several other varieties of whey used as remedies, as white wine whey, tamarind whey, alum whey, &c., for which see Book XXVI., " Domestic Management of the Sick Room." In27. Sugar ofviilk. Tlip sweet t.istc of new milk and whey is owinc to the stig.ir whicli thev cont.iin. This sng.ir can be pioducpd in a solid form, and, havinp some medical rcpuMtion on the Continent, it is manufactnred in considerable qnantitv, particularly in Switzerland. It much resembles common refined sugar.'but is less white, and has little sweetness to the Uistc. It Is less soluble in water than common sugar] but when dissolved in warm water, it makes a beverage like whey. This sugar is now imported into England, and is sold by m.ariy respectable chemists in London, being a good deal used liy foreigners, parti- cularly French and Swiss, To prepare it, the whey produced in making cheese is first heated, to separate the butter from it, and is then boiled down to the consistence of syrup ; It is poured into e.irihen pots, .and exposed to the sun till it becomes nearly solid. The mass is then put into water, and heated till the sug.ar is dissolved • .and the hot liquor being poured throngh a linen filter, the insoluble impurities are, for the most part separated ; it Is then clarified with the white of egg; and deposits on cooling a whitish crystalline mass, which is the sugar of milk. It docs not dilTer much from grape sugar.