931 CONFECTIONERY, ETC. IJOOK. XV. i.liould be melted asain and put into a fresh mould, to serve another day. This jelly is often ornamented by n thickened jelly, prepared by breaking four eggs into a stew pan, and beating them up witli a lew table- lipoonfuls of the Madeira jelly, and a little sifted sugar; the stew-pan is then put over the fire ; the contents i:irc stirred together until they thicken, they are then passed through a sieve into a dish, which is placed in i:in ice pail and kept tliere for three hours ; when it is mingled with transparent jelly, as described in the receipts for ItaJian jelly, it should also be decorated with Chantilly cheese. BOOK XV. CONFECTIONERY FOR DESSERTS, ROUTS, AND BALLS. 5432. Confectionery being in the present day a business of itself, is not now uniformly practised as a domestic art; in truth, no domestic skill can compete -with confectioners boy trade, whether the success of their productions, or the expense attending them, be con- siiidered. Confectionery processes cannot be carried on without the aid of apparatus and considerable experience, nor without the employment of many efficient hands besides ihhose of the msister confectioner. On some occasions ornamental confectionery may be ri'equired, and in such cases the purchase of them from the confectioner secures the best nbf the kind, and at the least expenditure of trouble and money. Acting upon such rea- sooning, all elaborate receipts for ornamental confectionery are here omitted. The receipts haere given will be confined to those by which may be made cakes and biscuits, ices and "■■ompotes, together with the dry and liquid confects which may be wanted at desserts, !)Dr at routs and balls. For the application of sugar in preserves of fruits, marmalades, and ioellies, the reader is referred to Book X. Chap. 4. Sect. 7. "Preservation of Food." Receipts for creams, and for jellies used as entremets, will be found under " French L^Jooking." Sect. I. CAKES AND BISCDITS. SuBSECT. 1..— Cakes. 5433, TTie oven when cakes are io be baked must be " quick," as the cook terms it; rrhen slow, cakes wUl not rise properly, hence they turn out what is termed " heavy." ITo find out when baked enough, half open the oven door and plunge a bright blade of a icnife into the centre of the cake; if done enough, the knife will come out as clear as it »<rent in ; if not done enough, some of the cake will adhere to it. The door of the oven iifiust in that case be immediately closed again, to prevent the cakes from falling. Currants required for a cake must be previously cleaned and dried before the fire ; if imrrants are put into a cake wet it will not rise properly. Eggs to be added to cakes, must be well beaten previously; the yolks and whites separately. Lemon-peel thinly pared, should be pounded to a paste, with a little sifted sugar, and mixed with either wine or milk, that it may be more easily mingled with the other ingredients. A Utile yeast, beaten with sugar and the yolk of an egg, makes a calte much lighter linan any quantity of eggs or butter can do. All the ingredients of a cake when put together, must be beaten for a considerable time. >^ ome confectioners cause this to be done for the chief part of an hour, as the lightness of I cake depends principally upon the ingredients being very thoroughly intermingled. 54.34. Rich plum cake. — The ingredients are: 1^ lb. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of agar, J lb. of candied citron and orange-peel, 2 oz. of sweet almonds, ^ oz. of allspice, 07.. of cinnamon, 10 eggs, and 1 glass of braudy. To mix the ingredients:—beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar to it; stir them Dgethcr for a long time ; add the allspice and pounded cinnamon ; work in the yolk's of liae eggs two at a time ; beat the whites till they are highly frothed ; work in the whites rradually, keeping the paste warm, or it may become heavy. Cut into stripes the citron !:Dd orange-peel; mix them with the currants (previously well washed and dried before 'le fire), and also with the almonds ; stir in by degrees the sifted flour, then the brandy ; ith a whisp beat the whole together for a considerable time; put the cake into a tin oop, and bake it for three hours. Let there be several sheets of paper both under the like and on the top of it. Sugar ice for plum cake. — When the cake is almost cold, beat and sift eight ounces of ne loaf sugar, and put it into the mortar with four spoonfiils of rose-water, the juice of a 3 O 2