BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL 598 always a danger of the bottles bursting. Great care should be taken to bottle exactly at the proper time. When a cask of beer is to be bottled, it is usual to loosen the bung and leave the beer exposed to the air for a short time, as a day or two, to flatten it, to prevent the bottles bursting : but there is great danger if the beer stands exposed too long, it may contract a tendency to acidity. 3380. Tlie corks should he of the best quality; there is no saving in cheap corks : soak the corks in a little of the beer ; and when the bottles are corked, they should be laid on their sides, that the beer, by swelling the corks, may make them quite tight. Should any of the bottles begin to burst, the whole should be set upright. They should be kept in a regular temperature. If the beer is in perfect order (and it should not be bottled except it be clear) there is no occasion for any addition; but if it be a little too flat, or if it is wanted to be up, as it is called, very soon, a lump of sugar may be put into each bottle, or four or five raisins, or a tea-spoonful of rice : these, by giving rise to a new fermentation, will make the beer very brisk. The warmer the weather, or the warmer the place where the bottles lie, the sooner will this fermentation begin, and the beer be ripe and fit for use. Strong ales may be kept in bottles of glass, without the risk of forcing out the cork, or bursting the glass, but weak ales undergo a much more violent and unmanageable fermentation than strong ones: hence table beer in warm weather may burst the bottle, while strong ale will not be affected. In some kinds of beer, where there is much fixed air generated, and where glass bottles would not be sufficiently strong, earthenware bottles, called stone bottles, such as those used for spruce beer, will be best, and the corks of these require to be tied down with string or wire. Great care should be taken that the bottles are per- fectly clean; and one great advantage of glass is that its transparency enables this to be easily seen. 3381. When a small cask of ale or beer of any kind is half consumed, it is a good practice to bottle the remainder, which otherwise would get too flat: but in this respect attention must be paid to the time when it is required to be fit to drink. Beer of any kind to be bottled for exportation should be brewed of good strength to insure its keeping. Sect. XI. STRENGTH OF MAT.T LIQCOE8. 3382. The strength of malt liquors depends, like that of wine, upon the quantity of alcohol or spirit of wine which they contain. Experiments by Professor Brande on this subject have given the roUowIng quantities of alcohol in 100 measures of various malt liquors, and therefore the numbers exhibit their relative degrees of strength. Home brewed ale Burton ale Another sample of do. Edinburgh ale - Dorchester ale . London ale Scotch ale London porter • Farts of alcohol Parts of alcohol by measure. by measure. - 8.30 Another sample of London porter . 4.20 - 6.25 Another do. - - - - 4.45 . 8.88 Do. bottled . . - - 475 - 6.20 Brown stout . - - . 5.00 - 5.50 Another sample of do. - 6.80 - 5.80 Small beer ... - 0.75 - 5.75 Another sample of do. - 1.28 - 4.00 CHAP. IV. ON ■WINES. Sect. L QENERAIi PRINCIPLES OF UAKINO liVINE. SuBSECT. 1. — Introduction. 3383. Few of the articles used in domestic economy require to be well understood more than wine, both on account of its expense, and its effect on health; yet there are few with respect to which accurate knowledge is less generally diffused, owing, probably, in a great measure, to this not being a wine-making country: hence the various circum- stances of its manufacture are but little known. "We propose to divide this subject into several sections. In the first, we shall treat of those theoretical principles upon which the production of wine, whether foreign or domestic, depends. In the second part, we shall enter into a description of the properties of those foreign wines which are most generally known in Britain. In tlic tJiird, we shall