835 CULINARY APPARATUS. Chap. III. II 4734. g, fig. 684., is a large fish-kettle in the kitchen of the Merchant Tailors' Hall, with I double bottom and sides, for boiling several turbots at once in water heated by steam between I the sides : A is a stand with two or more pierced shelves to place the fish upon in the water. 4735. Fig. 685. represents a Bain Marie, in which the water is heated by steam by means of a double bottom having the steam between. It is made of copper and placed upon brickwork. The same method may be employed with advantage when it is required to heat any liquid without the danger of hurning to. 4736. The following observations on steam we probably would not have been induced to make, had we not observed in the description of a cooking apparatus by a London manufacturer a proof that the subject of steam is not so generally understood as it ought to be by this class of persons. The inventor of this apparatus states that the novelty of his in- vention consists in his employing what he terms dry steam, which, he says, is "steam not in a pure state, or not completely saturated with toater." He adds that his steam is invisible in the atmosphere, and of a superior kind, &c. It is proper here to state that such an erroneous view and such a confusion of ideas should be corrected, since we believe these are not confined to the individual in question. It appears that some persons have a notion that there are two states of steam, dry and moist. This mistake arises from confounding the visible aqueous vapour which we see issuing from the spout of a tea- kettle with actual steam, and calling this moist steam. We have stated above that water I rendered perfectly gaseous by boiling is in reality always dry, transparent, and invisible; when this steam loses part of its heat of 212° by contact with a colder body, or by coming into the atmosphere, it is condensed into a visible vapour, which, although in common language is still called steam, is not, in fact, steam properly; it is steam altered by a certain degree of cooling; that is to say, the substance that was steam is beginning to be con- densed into water, in consequence of which it has become visible vapour. The steam, as it first issues from the spout of a tea-kettle, is transparent and invisible for nearly an inch; but then losing part of its heat, it begins to be condensed into water, and becomes visible. The difference between the temperature of the transparent and invisible part or real steam, and the visible cloud of vapour is sufficiently striking ; the first would scald the : finger if held in it, but the latter would feel merely warm. It is the state of actual trans- [ parent steam alone that is capable of cooking, and the vaporous state would be totally inef- fective for this purpose. The steam in the interior of every steamer is always perfectly transparent, invisible, and dry, as much as in the apparatus above alluded to, but which is described as peculiar : were steam not so, it could not perform any effect in cookery. It is true, that when the lid is taken oft" such a steamer, a clo\id of vapour appears ; but this is because some of the dry and invisible steam is immediately partially condensed, and becomes vapour by the cold of the atmosphere. If a cold piece of meat be put into a 3 H 2