I Chap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. \85 824. Pear tree. This wood is of a light yellow colour;.and being vei-y uniform, and loasily cut, though firm and solid, it is occasionally used for carving, also f6r measuring miles and similar purposes. 825. Ebony is a wood naturally of a deep black colour, and highly prized by the cabinet- imaker for several purposes, particularly inlaying. It is exceedingly hard, heavy, and i-lurable ; but is used only in a smaU quantity. As it is expensive, cabinet-makers often siubstitute pear and other woods dyed black ; but these are not so susceptible of a good [Hjolish and lustre, nor do they keep their colour equal to true ebony. The best ebony i jomes from Africa ; a kind variegated with brown is brought from Mauritius and (Ceylon. 826. Box-wood is a close-grained hard wood, of a yellowish white colour, and takes a liine polish. Its heaviness prevents its being much used in furniture, except for inlaying B:md smaller works. It is much used in instruments, particularly in musical wind instru- iiruents. Its bitter quality prevents its being attacked by insects. It is the wood of a ■I'.hrubby evergreen that in some places grows to the height of twelve or fifteen feet. 827. Bamboo. This cane grows in India and China, and is there very extensively em- pbloyed for a vast variety of purposes. It is one of the most common plants in those coun- irries, and shoots up often to the height of forty feet, with a stem perfectly straight, hollow, Kind jointed, and covered with a thin shining hard coat that appears like a varnish, and which is actually a solution of flint laid on by the hand of nature. The natives of India ■raise their houses with poles of this cane, and of the smaller shoots they make aU kinds of uurniture. Indeed, the various uses to which this elegant species of reed is applied would require a volume to enumerate. In China, their chairs, sofas, tables, screens, bedsteads, iiind many other household moveables, are entirely constructed of it. It is used on board of ship for poles, for sails, for cables, for rigging, and for caulking. In husbandry, it is i;mployed for carts, wheelbarrows, wheels to raise water, for fences, for sacks to hold grain, !:ind a variety of other utensils, as baskets, boxes, water pipes, &c. The young shoots fur- lish an article of food, and the wicks of their candles are made of its fibres, which are also twisted into cordage, and manufactured into paper. Furniture made of it is remark- ably light and strong ; but we have not the material here in sufficient quantity to manu- acture it as in the east. Articles of furniture brought from China, made of bamboo, as ihairs and bedsteads, some of which are made to fold up, are remarkably curious. 828. TTie rattan, of which the seats of cane chairs are made, is a small sort of cane wrought from China, Japan, and Sumatra. It is exceedingly tough, and, for the purpose !')f chairs, is split in several strips. In China they are twisted into cables. Sect. IL IVORY. 829. This beautifiU material is occasionally employed in ornamenting articles of fur- iiiiture. It was largely used for sculpture by the Greeks, even for colossal statues of ' heir deities, which were sometimes executed of gold and ivory. In modern times, also, .mailer works in ivory have been produced by the sculptor ; but it is seldom now resorted o for this purpose. 830. Ivory is properly the substance of ivhich the tus/ts of the elephant consist, though the i.iame is also given to the tusk of the sea-horse and of the hippopotamus. The greatest )art of our ivory comes from Africa, where elephants exist in great numbers. A part of '3uinea, from which the greatest quantity of it is shipped, has obtained the name of the 1 .'vory Coast. Very fine ivory comes also from the east coast of Africa. That from Ceylon • s particularly esteemed, on account of its whiteness. The component parts of ivory are learly the same as those of bones, namely, phosphate of lime, combined with a gelatinous substance; but the proportion of the latter is so considerable, that shavings and turnings )f ivory can be dissolved by digestion in boiling water, and converted into jelly, which is lot the case with bone. Heat does not soften ivory, like horn, nor is it so hard and jrittle as bone. 100 parts of ivory contain 64 of phosphate of lime, 24 of gelatine, and )'l of carbonate of lime. It is worked with the saw and cutting tools, and polished by jumice and tripoli. It admits of being easily stained of various colours ; and, when long ixposcd to the air, its beautiful white colour is changed to a dull yellow. Bleaching with ihlorine will restore it to its original whiteness. When burned in a close crucible, it nakes ivory black. The size of the tusks varies according to the age of the animal, the argest being about ten feet long. Those from Guinea weigh about from 100 to 120 )ounds. The tusks are always more or less curved; from which circumstance, and their imall diameter, this material can never be had of a large size; and, though in countries ivhere ivory is found, as in India, considerable articles of furniture are executed of it, it s found too expensive for that purpose when brought to this country.