CULINARY APPARATUS. 839 CUAP. 111. 3 H 4 4744. The little apparatus called Fourneau, Fi(js.693, 694., used much in Paris, and commonly employed by those -who sell things in the streets, is extremely con- venient, and would be found useful here on many occasions. It consists of an unglazed earthen-ware vesssl, a, that bears the fire ; in the cavity on the top some lighted charcoal is put; three little projections on the upper margin support the stewing-pan, b, also of earthenware glazed within ; there are holes in the lower one to supply a draught of air to the fire. By means of this very simple apparatus, poor people prepare their food, generally consisting of a stew of vegetables with a little meat; and a very small quantity of charcoal will keep this simmering for hours. It is to be observed, that the noxious fumes of the charcoal renders this apparatus improper to be used in a room, except there is a good current of air continually passing through; but it would be very useful in summer for cottagers, when it might be set out of doors. 4745. Calefaclcur Le7naine A portable apparatus, so named from the inventor, for preparing soup and buuilli, lias been much used in France, and is said to possess the advantages, not only of economy, and requiring little attention, but likewise that of malting soup of a superior quality. Fig. 695. is a section. It consists of two parts, a cylindrical case with its little furnace, and the boiler fitting within it and holding the soup. The cylindrical case is double, being composed of two cylinders of sheet iron, one withm the other, with a space be- tween them : a, b, c, </, is the external cylinder, and e,f, g, h, the inner one ; both are soldered together at the top. An aperture, i, is cut in the bottom of both, and these two holes are connected by a circular rim, which shuts in the space between the two cylinders. Over this aperture, i, is placed a small circular dish of tin, k, with perforations in the bottom, containing charcoal or other fuel, whicii is supplied with air through the aperture i: A is the boiler, very little nar- rower than the space within the inner cylinder of the case ; and this boiler has a rim round it at g-, g, and three little projections corresponding to those openings in the upper part of the inner cylinder, which is higher than the outer one ; when the boiler is placed so that the three projections correspond exactly with the tliree openings, the narrow space between the boiler and the inner cylinder is completely closed; but when the boiler is turned so that they do not correspond, then tliere is a narrow space open at /, g, by which the hot air and fumes of the charcoal can escape. To use this apparatus, water is first poured into the space between the two cylinders that form the case, by means of a short tube at tlie top, closed with a cork, but not represented in the section ; also fuel is placed lighted in the circular dish. The meat and water are then put into the boiler, generally in the proportion of a quart of water to a pound of meat. The boiler is then placed m the case in such a manner that the three little projections do not corre- spond with the three little openings, so as to allow the smoke or hot air to escape as was mentioned. In about thirty or forty minutes, according to the nature of the fuel, the water between the two cylindrical cases will begin to boil, which will be known by a little aperture and tube made at 6; and by that time the water in the boiler will likewise be hot, though not boiling. It should be men. tioned, that a small shallow boiler with a cover, b, fits close on the top of the large one, K ; when the water in a is known to be nearly boiling, the smaller boiler, containing water only, is taken off, the soup is scummed, and the vegetables and salt put in. The small boiler is now replaced,, and the three sm.ill projections on the great boiler turned so as to correspond with the little openings, which allows the boiler to close up the aperture by which the hot air issued. The fire will now be soon stifled for want of draught; but to preserve the whole as hot as possible, a large piece of baize, flannel, shawl, &c. is thrown over the whole, from the non-conducting power of which, and likewise of the water in the cylindrical case and the upper boiler, the heat of the expiring fire and of the air will be very long retained, even for several hours ; during which time the soup will be very slowly .ind gradually kept at a simmering heat, but not boiling. Some have recommended that the boiler should not fit quite accurately into the case, so as to admit of a very slight draught to the charcoal fire the whole time ; but in that case, provision should be made for the escape of the carbonic acid gas, which otherwise would collect in the apartment. The French mechanics, who are much accustomed to this species of cooking, find such an apparatus extremely convenient, as tlicy can put it to work in the morning, leave it to itself, and find their soup ready and excellent when they return to dinner. The boiling water between the two cylinders of the case is for washing the dishes, or any other such purpose, and is drawn off by a cock on the outside. That in the upper boiler may be employed in a similar way, or for cooking something else. This principle may be varied in many ways. Instead of water between the two cylinders of the case, the sp.ice might be filled with charcoal dust, and a tube made from it to conduct away the smoke, and then wood or even coal or coke might be liurned, if the .apparatus is placed under a chimney, or in the open air ; and a stc.imer might be put upon the boiler. By an addition to this apparatus, meat or poultry may also be dressed in a mode somewhat resemlilcng baking, but what the Parisians term ro.isting: / is a fiat circular dish fixed upon a perforated rim, and into which the me.at is laid. This dish is now let down into the cylindrical case, instead of the boiler, and is suspended at a proper height above the fire by the handles. 47IG. The Bruges slave, used sometimes in the cottages in Holland and the Netherlands, maybe mentioned among other port.iblo apparatus of this kind. This stove consists of a cylindrical case of cast-iron containing small furnace and ovens. Fig, 696. Is a section of the stove, mAJig. 697. a pers])ective view of the exterior, ill which a is the furn.ace, or fire-place, supplied with air by a hdle at the bottom, h. This fire-place being closed at the top by a cover, the smoke or heat passes through a square aperture, represeiU(Hl in the section, into the spaces rf. rf, inimediattdy under the flat top of the apparatus, which it lieats, and tlien passes ofl'into a fine up the chimney. The space, e, c, round the lurn.at-c forms an oven heated by the iron tire-place, a. 'I'he doors,/,/, open into this oven, which serves for baking bread or meat. The top of the apparatus above d d serves to set vessels upon for boiling or stewing, the heat coming tlirough the Iron being siillicient for that purpose. If much heat Is required, the vessels may be placed in circular openings, g,e,g, in the top, which otherwise arc closed by iron covers, and the top then answers for the hot plate now In common use. The whole stands upon strong iron feet. A is a register for the air which supplies the fire; and the fire.place itself may be increased or diminished by employing v.arlous sized circular grates adapted for different parts of the conical furnace. 6 Is a movable drawer into whirh the ashes drop. The economy of fuel, which inav be