196 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 890. It has latehj leen found that a feather, damaged by crumpling, may he perfectly restored hy immersing it in hot water. The feather will thus completely recover its former elasticity, and look as well as ever it did. This fact was discovered accidentally by an amateur orni- thologist at Manchester, and may, perhaps, be usefully applied hy the pluraasier. Having received some skins of birds from South America, he found that the feathers in the tail of one of the rarest specimens had been rumpled in the packing. Accidentally he let the bird fall from his hands into his coffee cup: but instead of its being completely lost as he at first supposed, having laid it down before the fire to dry, he was agreeably surprised to find that the plumage had been restored to its original straightness and perfection. Sect. XV. CAOnTCHOUC, OR INDIA RUBBER. 891. The material called caoutchouc, now so much employed in various articles of dress, was for a long time known only in the fine arts by the name of India rubber, so useful in obliterating the lines made by a black-lead pencil. The first mention of it which we find is in the preface to Dr. Priestley's " Familiar Introduction to the Theory and Practice of Per- spective," printed in 1770, where there is the following notice : — " Since this work was printed off, I have seen a substance excellently adapted to the purpose of wiping from paper the marks of a black-lead pencil. It must, therefore, be of singular use to those who practise drawing. It is sold by Mr. Nairne, mathematical instrument-maker, oppo- site the Royal Exchange. He sells a cubical piece, of about half an inch, for three shil- lings ; and he says it will last several years." How long before that its use in the fine arts had been discovered we do not know ; but before the date mentioned, crumb of bread had been used for the purpose alluded to. It is said, however, that the knowledge of this material was first brought to Europe by the French academicians who were sent to South America in 1730 to make astronomical observations. 892. Caoutchouc, or India rubber (the latter name having been given to it from the application we have just alluded to), is originally a white milky juice of certain trees or plants, found abundantly in the Brazils, and Quito in South Ainerica, and also in several parts of Asia and Africa. The chief plants which produce it are Hevea guianensis, Jatropha elastica, and Urceola elastica, but particularly the first. These plants grow so extensively in some places, that hundreds of miles are covered with them in a wild state ; thus there is no fear of the material falling short of the demand. The juice is procured by making incisions in the tree. For a short time it continues liquid, but soon becomes solid by ex- posure to the air; and this is the condition in which we usually receive it. The South American Indians prepare of it a variety of useful articles, as water bottles, shoes, boots, &c., by making moulds of clay, and of the shapes required. These they fix to the orifice made in the stems of the trees, so as to permit the juice to flow out and cover them all over with a thin coat. In this state it is held over the fire to dry, and hence its black colour, from the smoke. When it is dry, it is covered with another coat of the juice, which is also dried, and so on, till suflicient thickness is obtained. The clay is then removed from the inside by breaking it into fine powder, or moistening it, and permitting it to pass out at the neck of the bottle. In this way are made the small India rubber bottles which we see in the shops. 893. Caoutchouc, when fresh taken from the tree in a liquid state, is of a dirty white colour, resembling in consistence and appearance buttermUk or cream, and it will keep in this state, if not exposed to the air, for two or three months, at the end of which time it coagulates, and becomes thick and solid. Some of it has been imported of late. Although the juice in its recent state can thus be easily made to produce any form required, yet, as it is perfectly insoluble in water when once it has become solid, it cannot be manufactured into various articles by any ordinary means; these are therefore most easily made where the plant grows. 894. Though warmth softens solid caoutchouc a litde, and heat will cause it to melt, yet, after being rendered liquid in this manner, it does not return to its former condition, but remains always clammy. This singular material was found to resist most of the usual chemical agents employed for dissolving substances. Alcohol does not dissolve it; tur- nentine acts upon it, but imperfectly ; and ether was the only subst<ance that for a long ime was known to effect a solution that would afterwards become solid upon the evaporation of the menstruum. This solvent is, liowever, too expensive for ordinary pur- poses ; and is liable to another objection from its great volatility, which does not permit spreading the solution as a varnish properly. 895. Caoutchouc dissolves partly in some of the essential oils, as oil of turpentine, and also in the fat oils, as that of olives'and of almonds. It may be dissolved by boiling in spirits of turpentine, and putting in small pieces till dissolved; hut the solution does not dry perfectly. Ifhalf the quantity of drying linseed oilbe added, and both boiled together for half