POULTRY. .UP. VI. 1175 G95S. Ifhcpt in the poultry yard, they are fed on grain, refuse vegetables, boiled pota- :.tOL'S warm, or with the meal of oats, peas, beans, or maize, mixed with potatoes, carrots, or turnips. In the harvest, the stubble-field of corn is a proper place to turn them into. IThey are voracious feeders, and are rather expensive to bring up in a yard only ; grass -seems to be essential to them. 6959. Geese begin to lay early in the spring, generally in March; and the sign of hens ! being about to lay is their carrying straws to make a nest with. They require to be •watched at this time, lest they should lay in some inconvenient place ; and a nest should be of prepared straw, lined with hair, and made deep ; when once the goose can be induced i.to lay in it, she will continue to do so. She lays from eight to twelve eggs before she ssits ; but if the eggs are removed as soon as laid, a goose may, by plentiful food, be made i to lay from twenty to fifty eggs. 6960. The goose sits thirty days, and the gander generally remains near her nest, as if I'for a guard. They should have plenty of food and water near them, that they may not rremain long off the nests, and let their eggs get cool. From fifteen to twenty eggs are .as many as the goose can cover. The turkey hen is sometimes employed to hatch them; aad sometimes a common hen is made to perform the same office with eight or nine eggs, "When it is required not to interrupt the goose from laying. 6961. When any of the goslings are hatched, some take them out of the nest, and keep' t!them in a basket with wool until the whole brood has come out, when all should be put uunder the care of the mother, until they are sufficiently strong to follow her with ease, vwhich they will in a few days. They are fed at first on crumbs of bread soaked in milk, agrits, wheat, barley, or oats, coarsely ground, bran, or pollard, and lettuce leaves. The umother may have the same food, but with more corn. 6962. Geese are fattened, either in their young state, or when they are a month or six Tweeks old, when they are termed green geese, or after they have attained their full growth. IThe methods for both are nearly the same. They will generally get sufficiently fat if they have the rim of the stubble on a farm, but they may likewise be easily made fat by iconfining them in coops, and feeding well on steamed potatoes, mixed with any kind of tibruised or ground grain, pea or bean meal, pollard, milk, &c. made into a paste, giving 1 them at the same time plenty of water. The best time for fattening grown geese is in ^November, or when the cold weather begins ; if put off longer, the pairing season ap- i proaches, and prevents their becoming fat. As one of the principles of fattening consists 1 in depriving animals of exercise, this has been carried on the Continent to an extrava- :gant length; and methods have been put into practice which must be branded with the appellation of cruelty; but as we do not wish to see these imitated, we avoid describing 'them. Sect. IV DECKS. 6963. Ducks being, in a great measure, aquatic birds, will not thrive unless there be a ppiece of water of some kind for them to swim or at least to dip in, and it is useless ^without this to attempt keeping them. They ought to have a place separated from ■ordinary poultry on account of the gi'eat difference in their habits. The wild duck or lanallard, common in many parts of the kingdom, is the original of our domestic breed, oof which there are several varieties, though it is not usual to keep more than two or tlthree of these for the table, the rest being only for ornament or curiosity. The tame ^variety, which is the most common, is the Rhone duck, originally from France, which is oof larger size than the wild, and high flavoured. The English, or Aylesbury white duck, ias milder in flavour, which some prefer, and numbers of them are bred in Buckingham- sshire for the London market on account of their size. The Muscovy duck is not un- ccommon in a domesticated state, but it is of a different species from the others, and, tithough it breeds with them, the offspring is a hybrid. 6964. The best situation fur ducks is where there is a piece of water in pleasure grounds cconsiderable enough to have a small island, on which may be planted rushes, osiers, and i-other aquatic plants and shrubs, among which the ducks are fond of rubbing, and they »will breed there, and become so wild that they must be taken by snares or nets. They aare likewise reared in abundance about the house where there is a small pond, and, bbesides being easily kept and fattened, have the advantage of being ready for the spit as seoon as killed. Although we have stated that a pond or piece of water of some kind is nnecessary, yet a few ducks may be kept by having merely a shallow tub sunk in a corner oof the yard, in which they may dip and wash themselves. 6965. The food of duchs is extremely various, and they are therefore not difficult to pprovide for. They will eat all kinds of grain and every sort of mealy substance, parti- ccularly potatoes, as likewise herbage, roots and fruits, provided they are soft enough. TThey also devour the offal of animal substances, and are vei-y foud of seeking among the 4 F 4