PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1216 Book XXVI. creased so much as to form drops of fluid obvious to the eye, and then the secretion is designated by the term " sensible perspiration." The quantity of water got rid of in twenty- four hours by insensible and sensible perspiration is very great, perhaps on the ayerage as much as a pint and a half in round numbers. It is obvious at once how necessary it is to keep in a proper state the organ from which this vast quantity of fluid is constantly dr^jining ; if in regard to cleanliness it be neglected, it becomes dry and harsh, and unfit for Its functions ; some other organ must then supply its place ; but this other organ may have too much to do, thus -working for both, and may become diseased ; in fact, neglect of cleanliness of the skin is a most fertile source of disease, both of the skin itself and other parts. Cleanliness in our habitations is as necessary to health as personal clean- liness ; all exhalations from decomposing animal and vegetable substances produce them- selves certain complaints, and also increase the violence of other diseases in a very great degree. But this subject has lately attracted so much of the public attention that it is needless to enlarge upon it. On this subject see farther in Book XIX. Sect. V. BATHING. SuBSECT. 1. — General Observations 7175. In every age, and almost in every country, even among uncivilised nations, the value of bathing appears to have been acknowledged. The perfection and luxury of baths among the enlightened nations of antiquity excite our admiration, and in many parts of the world public baths still form remarkable features. Bathing may be considered in a two-fold point of view : as Hygeian, or as a means of preserving health, by keeping the skin in a state fit for performing its functions ; and as a therapeutic agent of great power, or for the cure of diseases. In a general sense, it means the immersion of the body in a fluid different in kind or temperature from the common air. Water is the ordinary medium employed for baths, but vapour and heated air are likewise in use for the purpose. 7176. There had long existed in this country a prejudice against bathing, or at least a degree of apathy rather surprising, indicated by the almost entire neglect of providing means for public bathing. Bathing was in the last century considered rather as a pastime and luxury than with a view to the improvement of health; but at present this is con- siderably altered; medical writers point out its value, and the public is beginning to be awakened to its importance to all, and particularly to the working classes. Still we are far behind in those conveniences which are essential to its general practice ; and the expense and trouble attending bathing prevents its being so much employed as it might be. In France, advantages are placed within the reach of the poor to which the rich alone can aspire in other countries. The number of gratuitous baths which are given at the hospitals of St. Louis and La Charite is truly prodigious : in 1822 it amounted to 127,752 for the out-patients only of the hospital of St. Louis. In Paris the habit of bathing is so general that public baths are extremely numerous and cheap. We are only beginning to imitate what has been long established in that way in otlier cotmtries. Bathing machines at the sea-side, which are but of late origin, have diminished the difiiculty at the various watering-places : but the use of baths is not yet of sufficiently easy accomplishment except to the wealthy, who can have them in their own houses. The great use of bathing must be obvious when we consider that the skin is not to be regarded as a mere covering of the body, but as an organ, the healthy condition of which is of vast importance to the veell-bcing of the whole frame, but especially of the stomach and lining membrane of the lungs, with which, as mucous membranes, it has the closest sympathy. Taking the lowest estimate by Lavoisier, the skin appears to be endowed with the power of removing from the system, in the space of twenty-four hours, twenty ounces of waste. The retention of this, from neglect of changing the clothes or other causes, is productive of much injury to the system. 7177. The most important circumstance respecting batlts of every kind is their temperature: various subdivisions of baths, according to their temperature, have been adopted by medical writers ; but it must be obvious that every classification of this kind must be in some degree arbitrary, it being impossible to limit the degrees of warmth in each with perfect accuracy: still it is convenient to have distinct expressions for baths of diff'crerit degrees of heat. The simplest division is into cold and hot baths: the former comprehends all those which communicate the sensation of cold, the latter all which occasion the feel- ing of warmth : all baths below 88° of temperature may be denominated cold ; all above it warm. Medical practitioners subdivide them still farther into: — 1. the cold bath, from 33° to 60°; 2. the cool bath, from 60° to 75°; 3. the temperate bath, from 75° to 85° ; 4. the tepid bath, from 85° to 92° ; 5. the warm bath, from 02° to 98° ; 6. the hot bath, from 98° to 112°.