BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 5G4 but still fresh, they may perhaps require to be used in somewhat greater quantity : if they have not been -well packed, they attract damp, and become mouldy, in which case they are altogether useless. The close packing in bags is supposed to preserve them; old hops are generally reckoned to be one-fourth, or one-fifth less in strength than new. SuBSECT. 3. — Water. 3171. It is generally stated among the directions for brewing, that it is absolutely neces- sary that the water should be quite soft, and that, if at all hard, it will not act sufficiently upon the malt, nor make good beer. Soft water, such as fresh rain water, or the water of a river or stream, is certainly the best, as being the purest; stagnant water is entirely unfit. But the hardness of water proceeds from certain salts which are dissolved in it, (see Chap. I. Book VIII. " On Water,") and it does not appear that the small quantity of such salts is injurious to the process of brewing. Mr. Donovan states that " the grains and hops left after they have been duly infused in hot hard waters, repeatedly applied, are found to be perfectly exhausted of their qualities :" and that as wormwood, gentian, quassia, and Columbia, give out their bitterness freely to water containing salt dissolved in large quantity, there is no reason for supposing that the same water would prove less efficacious with hops. It was formerly thought that good porter could not be made except with Thames water : but this is now known to be an erroneous idea. In fact, most of the principal London porter brewers do not use the Thames water, but have this liquid from deep wells which afford it soft, but still not so much so as that of the Thames. It may be considered, therefore, that any kind of good drinkable fresh water will do for brewing, pro- vided it be free from impregnations derived from stagnant pools or ponds containing decayed animal and vegetable substances. With regard to the objection that is often made to pump and well water, it is to be observed, that these are not always hard; and when they are not so, they are generally very pure. An absurd notion has been stated by some persons, that boiling bran in hard water will make it soft: this error arises from such persons not being acquainted with the theory of the hardness of water, or, in other words, with the true cause of that quality. We refer the reader here to Chap. I. Book VI i I. " On Water," where he will find that salts alone are the cause of water being hard ; and these cannot be in any way affected by the bran. Sect. IIL principles fok the operations in brewing. 3172. We shall now proceed to describe the general processes employed in brewing, at the same time explaining the principles upon which they depend, but reserving the miuute practical directions to a subsequent Section. Sdbsect. 1 Mashing. 3173. The first operation in brewing is infusing in water, or drawing out tJie extract from the ground malt, which extract is called the sweet wort, and contains all the saccharine and other soluble parts. This operation is termed mashing. 3174. The heat of the water is a matter of very considerable importance; hut it is impos- sible to fix upon a degree that should always be employed without deviation, since the temperature must vary somewhat according to the kind of malt used, the sort of liquor required to be made, and various other circumstances which will be stated as we proceed. The heat of the water usually employed for mashing is from 160° to 180°, the best brewers generally using the lowest temperatm-e. The water at about this heat is let into the mash tub, and immediately after, the ground malt is let down upon it ; or they are otherwise mixed, as will be seen in the description of mash tubs. The malt being specifically lighter than water, it floats, and the whole requires to be well stirred together; for if the malt were sufl'ered to remain undisturbed, it would in time absorb water, and sink to the bot- tom, parting with its saccharine matter to that portion only of the water which is in immediate contact with it; hence agitation is found to be necessary for the purpose of bringing every parti- cle of the malt into contact with fresh portions of water, and thus effecting a solution of the whole. This process was formerly per- formed in large as well as in private breweries, by men who stirred up the malt in the water with long poles called oars, mixing the whole together in the most accurate manner, breaking all the lumps and clots, so that the water may have access to every part. In large breweries, this operation is now effected by means of axis, o b, fig. 549., is fixed in the centre of the mash tub havinc machinery. rtical