MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROOM. Chap. VI. 1251 are to be used to the part itself; one of the best of these is a solution of nitrate of silver (lunar caustic), the strength of which should be about twenty grains to an ounce of •water ; a little of this should be painted on with a camel-hair brush every day. When the spot has gone beyond this slight discolouration and has become sore, or seems to he on the point of doing so, the most simple ointments are the best, as a mixture of equal parts of lard and oxide of zinc, or calamine mixed with oil till it acquire a tolerable con- sistence ; these ointments should be spread on linen, and applied constantly over the part ; if the sores seem to be spreading, a water-bed is often of great service. 7330. Again, during the latter stages of fever, every thing should be carefully observed ; the position of the patient in bed, and whether he spontaneously changes it, is an im- portant point ; also the expression of the countenance : the action of the bowels is one of the most important circumstances to be noticed ; the stools should always be kept for the physician to see ; the mode of breathing, and the presence or absence of cough must not be forgotten ; it should also be noticed whether the patient is constantly drowsy, and whether, when awake, he be sensible or delirious, or as it were childish, which last state is common in convalescence, and goes off as strength returns. Sect. IV. COURSE TO BE PURSUED BY NURSES IN CASES OF CONSUMPTION. 7331. It often happens that a patient with consumption will be able to walk in the open air,—will, in fact, possess considerable muscular strength till within a short period of death. The chief things which render this period of consumption harassing are the con- stant cough, the breathlessness, the occasional sharp flying pains in the chest, the evening fever, which often prevents sleep till towards the approach of morning, and the nocturnal perspirations. When the cough is very severe, certain remedies intended to allay it are always ordered by the medical man, and these often give temporary relief. The chief thing that the non-medical attendant has to do, with regard to the cough, is to keep the apartment at a temperature tolerably constant, day and night; all sudden changes from hot to cold air, or the reverse, augment the cough ; if it be winter, the patient should not proceed from one room to another, and should not go up and down stairs without putting on a respirator. The temperature of the sitting and bed rooms should be comfortably warm, but never very high; towards the evening it should, if any thing, be lower than in the morning, as in the majority of cases the pulse gets quicker and the face more flushed towards night; there is, in fact, an accession of fever, and hot rooms are likely to augment this, and by so doing, add not a little to the discomfort of the patient. When exercise is taken in the open air, it should never be violent ; the patient should walk gently, or at a later period be wheeled slowly about in a chair; quick walking increases the flow of blood through the lungs, and, as a consequence, augments the cough and the difficulty of breathing. If the weather be tolerably warm, as much out-door exercise should be taken as can be borne. With regard to the breathlessness, it may be some consolation to know that this is often much less than might be expected from the extent to which the lung is . affected ; for the system gradually accommodates itself to the means of breathing which ; still remain to it; and persons who have only a small portion of lung capable of admitting air, still may not suffer materially from difficulty of breathing. The flying pains in the chest, wliich are sometimes very severe, will, of course, be ' treated by the physician; mustard poultices may always be applied, and, according to a very high*authority on this subject (Sir J. Clark), are often of very considerable service. The fever, which comes on towards evening and the night perspirations, are two very 1 distressing occurrences in many cases ; the patient cannot sleep, but tosses about in bed, • or occasionally has a short, unquiet dose; towards three or four o'clock in the morning 1 perhaps he falls into a deeper sleep, accompanied with great perspiration, and wakens ; after a few hours, feeling unrefreshed, and weaker than the night before ; after an hour ' or two, however, he gets more comlbrtable, and returns nearly to the same state he was iin on the day before. 7332. The night perspirations are in some degree under tlie influence of medicine, [particularly some of the mineral acids, as diluted sulphuric acid, &c.; but the feverislmess is often very obstinate ; it must be tried to be lessened by quiet of mind and body, some 'time before going to bed, and by abstaining fi'om all heating food, or from auy thing that may stimulate, in the evening. 7333. In the degree of severity, consumption varies infinitely in different persons; some lare afflicted by pains in the back and abdomen, headache, dreadful paroxysms of cough, land breathlessness, dyspepsia, evinced by loss of appetite, loathing of food, or sickness land pain after taking it, and a load at the pit of the stomach, with acid eructations, and a I red furred tongue, dryness of the mouth, and considerable thirst; in these Cases, as in the 'less severe ones, there may be spitting of blood very copious, or only sufficient to tinge tithe expectoration; at a later stage there maybe excessive pain in the bowels, great head- 4 I> 2