EHAP. XII. 269 BED-ROOM FURNITURE. 119S. Sofa and couch beds are made on a similar principle. F/gi. 411. represents the ■jaming of one so simple that it may be made by a common carpenter, of deal or any tther wood. The back folds down to make the bed on the sofa. The seat is formed F a frame lathed, and having a mattress laid on it in the usual manner of a sofa ; this -jfame being hinged, lifts up and allows the bed clothes, together with the bolster and iillows, to be put into the weU below that reaches nearly to the floor, and is inclosed all vjund by canvass strained to the frame. Another mattress is required for the back in dddition to that which forms the seat of the sofa; the front rail must be strong, and of ilfBcient depth to bear the weight of sitting on the sofa ; and to strengthen it, it will be cecessary to have an iron bar under the middle of the seat. The back must be lathed kke the seat to keep in its place when raised up; a strong hook and eye will be sufficient, nmall stuffed pieces must be made for the ends ; and the whole may be covered by a wose covering of chintz, to be taken off when the bed is to be made. Sofa beds are isade of other constructions more elegant, and form useful and cheap pieces of furniture. 1199. Cot beds or hammocks are exceedingly convenient in many situations where idere is little room, or when an extra bed is required. They are formed by making a ooden frame with sacking strained across large enough for one person. To the side of itis canvass is attached, as in Jig. 412., two poles by hhich the cot is suspended to the ceiling hj strong cords. i is easy to see how this might be made more ornamental ' curtains. The great convenience is that, in the day- mne, it is so portable that the whole may be easily put ray. It is scarcely necessary to state that care should be ikken to have the lines and hook sufficiently strong. 11200. Stump bedsteads, fig. 413., are the humblest in Fig. 413. >Dmmon use ; they are usually made of wood with sacking bottoms. 11201. Box bedsteads are a very ancient kind of bedstead, still used in many parts of ee Contment, and in Scotland. They consist of an inclosure of wainscotting, sometimes ooveable; but however they might have been calculated for houses which were very ;iirvious to the weather, they are not to be recommended, as they confine the air too luuch for health. 1202. The folding camp, or tressel bedstead, fig. 414-., is oneof the cheapestmade,andhas the ■eeat convenience of being easily put aside to make room, when folded ; consisting merely of two frames connected by the sacking. When extended, it is kept open by the head-board, which has two pins that drop into holes in the side rails; with the addition of a foot-board, made in the same manner as the head-board; there is no better bed- stead for men servants or young people ; and being so moveable, they are easily kept clean, not re- liiiring taking to pieces. They may be had complete for less than 1/. If required, jothing would be easier than to add curtains in the manner of the French bedstead, hhey are also made sometimes of iron. < Camp bedsteads to fold in little room are made sometimes of iron; but the best and oost elegant are of hollow brass rods, which are particularly convenient for travelling !r land or sea, and are occasionally useful in the house from being easily put away, hhose of brass are about twice the price of iron ones. Couches are made on the same rinciple. 11203. Iron bedsteads have now become very general, and are much more easily kept clean than those of wood. Though a little more expensive at first, they are often found cheaper in the end, on account of their greater durability. They are painted in oil; and the bottoms, instead of being of sacking, are composed of iron hooping crossed, as 'm fig.4\5. Some are made with standards for curtains, in the manner of French bedsteads. 1204. Wire gauze is found very useful in eppical climates as a substitute for the sacking, head, tester, and the various hangings of (bedstead, in order to prevent certain insects from establishing their domicile, and like-