CUAP. IV. 1239 INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. When the attack has occurred, its duration and severity are often lessened by medical treatment. Into this subject we cannot enter, but we may remark that if the patient take colchicum without the sanction of his medical attendant, it must be with great caution : the dose should not exceed twenty drops (or minims, measured in the glass formerly i-ecommended), combined with calcined magnesia, and with Epsom salts (sulphate of magnesia). The colchicum should not be too frecfuently repeated, and directly it purges it should be discontinued; it should also be left off if there be great pain at the pit of the stomach. There is another form of gout, occurring in pale, feeble, and emaciated subjects, and aptly enough termed " poor man's gout." In this case the homely maxim which has been applied to the above described plethoric gout, viz. " living on sixpence a day, and earning it," will not answer: good food, tonics, and wine, are necessary for its cure. When, in long-continued gout, the joints become swelled and painful, and the gout stones are forming, local counter-irritation by means of lunar caustic or ether, covering the part at the same time with oiled silk, is often serviceable ; but it must be remembered that this is temporary merely, not striking at the root of the evil. If, during an attack of gout, the pain quit the great toe, or knee, or hand, or whatever part it happened to be located in, and the swelling and redness disappear, and if, at the same tiltie there ensue an agonising pain in the stomach, coming on in paroxysms, it may be useful to know that laudanum may be of the utmost service in doses of twenty drops every hour, till the medical man come, who will probably give larger doses, and hot bottles should be un- ceasingly applied to the region of the stomach. If laudanum cannot be procured, strong brandy is the best substitute ; but this is a more dangerous remedy, since the pain may be inflammatory, and not spasmodic, and in such a case brandy would do much more harm than opium. StJBSECT. 10.—Rheumatism. 7276. This disease is popularly divided into two kinds, the acute and the chronic. Tlie acute variety is commonly known by the name of Rheumatic fever:" there is intense pain in some of the joints, namely, tlie knees, shoulders, and wrists, which is not stationary in one place, but migratory and wandering, attacking violently one joint, then leaving this and fastening on another, and then passing on to a third, or returning to the one most affected ; the painful joint is swollen, and the skin over it is red, although not always ; the slightest movement gives excruciating pain : there is high fever; great heat of skin, and thirst; quick full pulse ; white tongue ; copious acid perspirations at night; loss of appetite, &c. &c. The pains are almost always worse during the night, and, as a general rule, are increased by heat. Such a disease, painful as it may be, is rarely fatal; but it has sometimes consequences of a nature so serious, that it becomes one of the diseases which the physician is most anxious to cut short. There is a great tendency to disease of the heart : this is often very insidious, denoted only by violent heating, or not even by that, and the patient may deny that anything at all is the matter with the heart; but the stethoscope, the most valuable addition to modern medicinal science, reveals the mischief, which, never making a sudden impression, nevertheless pursues its sure and dangerous course, and leads even- tually to some of the most fatal diseases of the heart; or, in other cases, there is intense pain and inflammation of the heart, producing a state not likely to be overlooked. We have made these remarks for this reason : — these affections of the heart are com- paratively rare in the middle and higher classes of society, where medical aid is always at hand, but they display themselves in their greatest violence among the indigent and half destitute inhabitants of large manufacturing towns, and the poor agricultural districts. Those charitable individuals who " go about doing good " in these haunts of misery are quite unaware of this circumstance. Knowing that rheumatic fever has a tendency to remit in two or three weeks, they fancy it is a disease which will be cured without much aid, and thus a complaint, which requires the closest attendance, is left to inflict its utmost ravages without impediment. Rheumatism, thus left to itself, subsides in a great degree in from two to six weeks ; the joints are left stiffened and a little swelled, and subject to pains during damp weather and changes of temperature ; a second acute attack occurs after a time, and may be again and again repeated. At length comes a time when the atlection of the heart begins to display itself in palpitation, faintness, and irregular pulse ; and then livid lips and brcathlessness, cough, and, from time to time, a bloody expector- ation ; finally, general dropsy occurs, and other organs become engaged in the disease, and assist in the fatal termination. The other variety of rheumatism, termed " chronic," from the length of time it lasts, may succeed to an attack of rheumatic fever, or may be of the same character from the commencement. It is not nearly so often followed by heart disease, and is altogether a less dangerous complaint; when it affects tlie small joints (a disease cilled by some " Rheumatic (joiil"), it thickens them, renders them stiff, and enlarges the ends of the small bones. With regard to the domestic treatment of 4 K 4