63 tHAP. I. ON HEAT. siactly equal to the length of the cylinder ; make also a hole in this plate so large that ' the cylinder may just fit it. Now heat the cylinder in the fire, and on O 1 applying it to the notch, it will be found to be increased in length —^ by its no longer fitting it; and the thickness will likewise be found greater, as it can no longer be pushed through the hole in the plate. Fig. 52. When the cylinder cools, it will shrink again to its former size. By .nmilar observations on other substances, it wil>appear that all expand by heat, and contract ry cold or the decrease of heat: but some more than others : metals expand most, and glass i: among the least expansible ; wood expands and contracts considerably across the grain, mt very little in the direction of the gram; thus a bar of wood varies in its length less than !bar of iron. . , ., 278. The expansibility of liquids is seen distinctly in the thermometer, where the quicksilver iiises and falls in consequence of the increase and diminution of its bulk, as the weather eecomes warmer or colder. To observe how air expands, lay a half-blown bladder before lae fire, and, in a few minutes, the air within it will swell so much that the bladder will ie completely extended ; but when it is removed from the fiire, the air, as it cools, will lontract to its original bulk. 279. The shrinking of baked clay, when exposed to a high degree of heat, may seem to be na exception to the general law just mentioned ; but it is only apparently so, for this con- raction is owing to the heat expelling the moisture which the clay contained, in conse- uuence of which the parts come closer into contact. 280. The unequal expansion and contraction of layers of different substances applied on each ilther is frequently productive of serious inconvenience. It is this that occasions earthen- rzare to be covered with innumerable minute cracks after some time ; and this unequal xxpansion is also the reason why glass and earthenware are so easily broken by pouring iijquids into them suddenly without gradually warming them. The surface where the loot fluid is applied expands before the opposite side has time to do so, and a crack is the consequence. The thinnest glass is the least liable to this accident, because it is soonest ii-eated through. Throwing water upon heated cast iron produces a similar effect by ooling one side more rapidly than the other. 281. Heat does not pass with equal facility through all bodies. Those which permit its wassage the most readily, are termed good conductors; and those through which it passes tFith difficulty are called bad, or slow, conductors of heat. Metals are the best conductors ; innd charcoal, wood, glass, earthenware, water, and air, are the worst. To illustrate this, meat one end of a rod of iron in the fire, and it will be perceived that the other end will ooon become so hot that it cannot be held in the hand, because the heat passes readily from ihe end in the fire to the other end : but a rod of wood may be held in the fire until one end is burned, without the other being heated so that it may not be easily held, because ihhe heat passes with great difficulty through the wood. The same may be experienced rvith a rod of glass. It is of very great importance in the management of heat to know hhe various powers of substances in conducting it, or, in other words, suffering it to pass hhrough them, or preventing its passage, as upon this depend our means of confining it, so )t)ften necessary. 282. It is obvious that to confine heat, or to prevent it from escaping, we must sur- found it with the slowest conductors, of which brick, charcoal, wood, and air are often ;hhe most convenient. In general, the densest substances (for instance, metals,) permit the passage of heat the most readily ; and, on the contrary, the most porous and lightest lioodies are the worst conductors and the best confiners of heat. Asa few illustrative examples )bf the application of this principle, we may mention that boiling water may be carried a Iflong way hot by putting it into a thick wooden cask. Wooden handles are put to metallic teea and coffee-pots, or other hot vessels, because wood is a slow conductor of heat. Heat may in a great measure be prevented from escaping from bodies, by being surrounded with poounded charcoal, saw-dust, or oumice, or by air confined between plates ; and water may boe kept long hot, by the vessel containing it being wrapped round with woollen cloth or lany light porous material. But as there is no substance a perfect or absolute nonconductor, ihhat is, through which heat will not be transmitted more or less, so we have no means of i preventing heat from escaping in some degree: when we wish to confine it, we can only select TAs a barrier those substances through which it finds its way with the gi'catest difliciilty. 283. For the same reason all slow conductors part with their heat with greater difficulty, and ■retain it much longer than good conductors. From these principles many facts are easily explained. Brick is a bad conductor, and we have shown that metals arc the best. A 'brick stove will, therefore, be longer in heating through than an iron one, but will be much ' longer in cooling or parting with its heat. Water is a bad conductor of heat, and so is :glass ; a bottle of hot water will therefore keep long warm, but still longer if wrapped in flannel. Every one has remarked, that, after standing some time before the fire, the nnoney in one's pocket feels much hotter than the clothes. This, however, is a deception, !for it is not in reality any hotter, as may be proved by the thermometer. Whence.