540 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL pipe are fitted in by enlarging the bore at one end in a conical form with a sort of auger, and cutting the opposite end taper to drive into the conical end of the adjacent pipe, which is hooped to prevent its splitting. Great care should be taken in fitting them well together to prevent leakage, and not to cut away too much of the wood at the taper end, which is frequently the cause of decay. Wooden pipes are apt to generate insects in their decayed and rotten parts, and water lying long in such pipes becomes putrid from the animal and vegetable matter collected in them. 3032. Cast-iron pipes are superior to any other for durability and strength. They may be procured of any diameter in lengths of ten feet, and then are united by means of nuts and screws passed through flaunches cast on them ; these require to be put together with some cement. After having screwed the pipes together, they first caulk the joint with hemp, and then fiU it up with a composition of borings or turnings of cast-iron, mixed with sulphur and sal-ammoniac, and moistened with water. The rapid oxidation of the iron unites the whole into one mass, and at the same time expands th^ bulk of the cement, so as to fill up the space very closely. The use of the hemp is only to prevent the cement from getting into the inside of the pipe. Some have used Roman cement for this purpose ; and others have employed melted lead. An idea has sometimes been entertained that the iron is injurious to the salubrity of the water; but a thin black oxide soon forms upon the inside of the pipe, and defends it from the action of the water, forming a sort of black japan. If the water contains lime, the latter is deposited as a fine crust over the inside, and defends them from corrosion ; and there is no fear that iron pipes will fill up with this deposit, since the water only deposits the stony matter from the attraction of the iron, which, being once covered with a slight thickness, the water no longer has access to the iron. Some have put lime into the water purposely at first, when it was found that the water was so corrosive as to become tinged by running through iron pipes newly laid down; a rapid current of lime-water being passed through the whole length for a few days, the pipes became coated in the inside with calcareous matter. At first, after this, the water tasted of lime, but it became pure in a short time. 3033. Stone pipes have been used; and they are perfectly safe and wholesome, but difficult to execute. Machines have been invented for sawing them out of blocks of stone; but the expense was too great, and they were liable to break. 3034. Copper pipes are never employed, except in particular cases, in machinery, and apparatus of various kinds. 3035. Lead pipes are universally employed for small water pipes, chiefly from the facility of bending them in any direction, and soldering their joints. They were for- merly made of sheet lead wrapped round an iron or wooden core, and the joint soldered up. This method was imperfect, as they were apt to give way in the joint; they are now generally made by casting the lead in an iron mould, upon a cylindrical iron rod of the size for the bore of the intended pipe, the lead being three or four times the thickness of the intended pipe, and in short lengths, which are then drawn through holes in pieces of steel in the manner of wire-drawing, till the pipe is reduced to the intended thickness, and drawn out to the proper length. We have already mentioned the bad effects of keeping water long in lead. 3036. Lead pipes lined with tin have been made for the conveyance of water where it was in danger of receiving a taint from the corrosion of lead, or for beer. 3037. Pipes of potteryware are made of a coarse brown kind of pottery, which is very hard and durable ; they can only be made in short lengths, and have one end enlarged to receive the other. To close the joints, tow and pitch are used. These pipes can never be made to bear much pressure, are liable to be broken by accident, and are expensive; but they preserve the water perfectly pure. It appears from some ancient buildings, that the Romans sometimes made use of them. 3038. Pipes are subject to obstructions, not only from the deposition of sand or mud in the lower parts, where they are curved, but also from air which gets in by accident, and separates from the water, and collects in the upper parts of their bendings. To clear a pipe of this air, if it be of lead, the common method practised by the plumbers is this : — They drive a nail into the place where they suspect the air to be lodged, and while the nail is in, they hammer up the lead round it; they then draw out the nail, and suffer the air to escape ; when that, is all gone, and the water appears, they with a stroke or two of the hammer close up the hole in the pipe again, which the lead gathering round the nail enables them to do. Sect. XV. FORMING WELLS, AND RAISING WATER. 3039. When water cannot be procured on the surface of the earth, it is necessary to search for it in the interior, where it circulates in numerous places. The origin of well