ON FOOD. 398 Book Vll. culty. Tlie Imnting of the bustard was an ancient diversion. The head and neck of the iiiale are ash-coloured; tlie back barred transversely with black; the belly is -white. Their flesh has been ever held most delicious, and they feed principally upon grapes, grain, and worms. The male is distinguished by a circumstance wanting in the female, which is the possession of a large pouch from the throat to the breast, capable of holding several pints of water. They are bred occasionally, feeding like the turkey ; and it would appear that they are an object peculiarly deserving of attention with regard to propagation and increase, as it is probable that its flesh will well repay the expense of its food. Bus- tards are sometimes to be had in Paris; but they are expensive fare, costing generally 4l. or .■)/. each. Captain Cook discovered a prodigious number of them in a bay of Australia, which is, in consequence, named Bustard bay. Besides this large species, a smaller species sometimes appears in England (O. trelrax), not larger than a pheasant. Sect. VIII. QUAIL ( Tctrao columix, Linn.). 2043. This bird is a native of the East, and abounds in the Greek islands of the Archi- pelago, and in Italy. It also inhabits Egypt, and formed one of the supplies which the Israelites obtained while in the wilderness. Quails are birds of passage, and migrate from warmer regions in the spring to colder in autumn. It may be said, indeed, to be a universal inhabitant of the old Continent but not of the new. 2044. Quails are found, though rareh/, in Enyland; some entirely quitting it, others shifting their quarters from one county to another, and sheltering themselves, on the approach of winter, among the woods near the sea coast. They are not domesticated liere, and may be reared and preserved in the same manner as the pheasant and part- ridge ; their food is nearly the same as that of the latter bird : when wild, they frequent corn-fields and meadows, and are ensnared by sounding a quail pipe, an instrument made to imitate the voice of the hen. They are very abundant in France, and are caught in snares and sent both to Paris and to the London market. The island of Capri, near Naples, produces such vast numbers of them, in consequence of its bishop's income having been formerly paid from the profits arising from them, that the island is sometimes called the Bishopric of Quails. So many as 800,000 have been taken near to Naples in one day; and Buffon states that sometimes clouds of them are seen on the French coast. They are sometimes imported from Turkey and the Greek islands, preserved in fat or clarified butter. With us they are occasionally seen alive fattening in cages; and, at the poulterers', they sell for three shillings each. Some persons esteem them; but INI. Ude says, " Quails, in my opinion, have no flavour; it is only their rarity that makes them fashionable." They are good only when fat. This bird was proverbial among the ancient Greeks as captious and quarrelsome ; and quail fighting was one of the sports of the Athenians, as it is among the Chinese in the pres.ent day. Sect. IX. PEACOCK. (Pawo cristatits. Linn.). 2045. 77hs beautiful and majestic bird is a native of India, and is found in a wild state in Java and Ceylon, where they perch upon trees like the turkey in America.^ MTien the conquering Alexander led his armies into the peaceful plains of India, he is said to have been so struck by the sight of the peacock in the full magnificence of its plumage, that he forbade any one to destroy them imder pain of death : but its antiquity we learn from the history of King Solomon, and the choice of the goddess Juno who regarded it as her favourite bird. The peacock has been introduced on the table by the ancients as well as by the moderns, but rather as a showy and ornamental dish, being preserved in some of its fine plumage. 2046. The flesh is coarse and ill coloured, and is scarcely ever eaten in these times. At three years old the splendid tail is complete ; and it lives to the age of twenty years. Its chief value is as an ornament to pleasure-grounds, where it is useful in destroying rep- tiles. Sect. X. Swan {Cygniis maiisueliis, Linn.). 2047. It is now knoion that the wild swan (C;/(/nus ferns) is a distinct species from the fame bird of the some name. The trachea or windpipe in the latter is simple and straight ; but in the wild swan, after entering the chest a little way, it is reflected from thence in the form of a trumpet, and, again returning, divides into two branches. This f^tructuro enables the bird to make the powerful note which it utters in its flight, and which can be often heard when the bird itself is so high as to be invisible.