ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 774 Book X. their natural juices by evaporation from the leaves, which soon become flaccid, and in this state they are not only disagreeable to the eye, but deteriorated -with respect to their nutritious properties. Every care should, therefore, be taken to preserve them in their full and plump state previous to their being dressed. As heat is the cause of the loss of their juices, a cool, shady, and damp place is proper to keep them in. A cool cellar -with the floor paved with stone is the most proper place, except there be an ice-house or a room attached to it, which is still better. They should not be kept in water, as that dissolves and destroys some of their juices, and injures their flavour ; and the best method of refreshing them is to cut ofi" a portion of the stem, and set the cut part in water, of which the vegetable wiU then absorb a good deal to supply the leaves and make up for the evaporation. They should not be laid together in heaps, since this is apt to generate heat and fermentation, as is often the case with vegetables brought up from the country to market, when they are seen to steam and sweat, as it is called, in which state they are far from being wholesome. In the " Prac- tical Directions to the Cook," Book XII., further particulars relating to the business of the larder wiU be found. CHAP. m. PKESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 4422. Tim various modes of preserving animal food as store for a considerable period of time may be reduced to the following :— 1. Preserving by drying; 2. by cold ; 3. by salting, and by sugar; 4. by smoking; 5. by vinegar ; 6. by M. Appert's method of par- boiling and excluding the air ; 7. by potting ; 8. by alcohol. Sometimes one of these methods is employed singly, and sometimes several in conjunction. 4423. Substances that prevent the putrefaction of animal and vegetable bodies are termed antiseptics; the principal of which are, common salt, nitre, vinegar, spices, and sugar These operate partly by inducing a change in the fibres, and partly by rendering the aqueous constituents unsusceptible of decomposition. Sect. I. PKESERVATION OF ANIJIAI, FOOD BY DRYING. 4424. Moisture being one of the essential conditions of the decomposition of animal sub- stances, their complete desiccation is one of the means of preventing their decay, and is employed as a mode of preserving them as food for a long period. Every one knows that common glue will dry quite hard, and will keep in this manner for any length of time ; the same is the case with white of egg if it be spread thin, one layer being dried upon another. Now, both these substances, consisting the one of gelatine and the other of albumen, are constituents of flesh ; and fibrin, or the fleshy fibre, dries equally well, and in that state is not liable to putrefaction. Gelatine, after being hardened by drying, is easily softened again and brought into the gelatinous state by hot water ; but if albumen be thoroughly coagulated by boiling water, it cannot be softened again ; nevertheless, albumen can be dried without coagulating in a heat of 140°, and may then be re-dissolved in cold water with its valuable properties unaltered. Meat dried to be preserved for cooking must not, therefore, be exposed to too high a degree of heat, otherwise it would become insoluble. 4425. Remarkable instances of die power tvhicli drying has in preserving flesh may be observed in those parts of the earth where there are sandy desei-ts, and where rain seldom falls ; the air that blows over these is rendered dry, and possessing a great affinity for moisture, greedily attracts it from all substances with which it comes into contact. Buried in these deserts, the bodies of travellers and of camels that have been arrested and over- whelmed by the drifting sand, have been found preserved from time immemorial, the flesh having been totally deprived of all moisture, and perfectly dried. ^Vhile they con- tinue in that state, they arc not liable to change. Such efiects are never known in Bri- tain, the winds being well saturated with moisture before they can reach our shores. 4426. 77)6 North American Indians, in the fur countries, prepare tJie flesh of the bison, buffalo, and deer, merely by drying, according to the account given by Mr. Hearne, in his " Journal to the Northern Ocean," who found it to be excellent food. This prepara- tion is called " pemmican." It is stated to be quite essential to travellers in those coun- tries, and is thus described by Captain Back, wlio travelled with Sir John Franklin:—