795 CUAP. IV. PRESERVATION OF FOOD AND VEGETABLES. Some apples that had been preserved in pits in the ground were sent to the Horti- cultural Society on February 14.1828, in as fresh a state as if newly gathered from the tree. The apples should be of the hardy or keeping sorts, and not more than four or five bushels should be put into one heap. It is requisite to place dry straw at the bottom and sides of the pit, and also to cover the top with straw, before the earth is put over them. 4554. The undried grapes imported from Spain and Portugal furnish us with a fine ex- ample of a simple mode of preserving fruit. They come in large jars, having sawdust poured in among the fruit to fill up the jars, and the lids are cemented on to prevent access of air. 4555. To preserve green gooseberries, mrrants, or green peas, in this manner, let the fruit be gathered in dry weather, or if not, let them he dried in the sun ; cut them from the stalks with scissors, and take care that they are not in the least wounded, and that no spoiled or bruised ones are mixed with the rest. Drop them gently into dry, wide-mouthed bottles. Cork the bottles and rosin over the corks. Make a trench in the garden at least two or three feet deep, and bury the bottles in it, placing the corks downwards, to keep them from the frost. Should the frost in winter be severe, a quantity of litter from the stable should be laid over the place where they have been put. If the bottles are placed in a very cool cellar, the fruit will keep tolerably well. By plunging the bottles after they are corked, for a few minutes in hot water, berries will keep better. 4556. It is sometimes safer to take tip certain vegetables before hard frosts set in, where the cold is severe, as they may be preserved by artificial means, even by laying on a floor inaccessible to the frost; whereas if left in the ground they would have been frozen and lost. This, in some situations, is the case with cabbages, lettuce, greens, endive, leeks, cauliflowers, &c. They should be carefully removed in dry weather, without injuring the roots too much. Vegetables only a little touched by the frost may be recovered by soaking in cold water. 4557. Potatoes are diflicult to preserve for many years, and hence they are considered less to be depended upon than wheat against years of scarcity; but as they are seldom required to be kept longer than during the winter and spring seasons, with proper pre- cautions, this is not difiicult. When preserved in considerable qu.intities by the farmers, several methods are put in practice in different districts; but the principle appears to he merely to keep them dry, and so Fisi. 625. ■<a'S\ protected that the frost cannot reach them. A very effectual method was employed by Mr. Young. He constructed a house capable of holding seven hundred bushels of potatoes, and formed it of fir posts, a, a,Jlg. Gib. having the interstices filled in with watling; against the sides of this he laid straw, and ag.ainst that, exteriorly, he put earth r.immed tight six feet thick at the bot- tom, and eighteen inches at the top. The roof was (lat and he placed on it a stack of beans. The beans kept out the weather, and yet admitted any steam that rose from the potatoes, and which, if it did not escape, would have rotted them. A roof of thatch would li.ave .answered. In some parts of the country they are kept during the winter in pits in the ground, where the soil is dry and light, to the depth of three or four feet, lining this with straw, covering them with e&rth to protect them from the frost, and the whole thatched. Roots, as potatoes, tur- nips, carrots, &c., should never be divested of the earth adhering to them when taken out of the ground, as it tends to preserve them fresh, the little fibres by which it is retained continuing still to dr.aw some nutri- ment from it; and if these are broken, the juices escape through the broken surfaces. They should be wounded as little as possible. 4.')58. Where the quantity is not considerable, potatoes may be kept in a cellar underground, where the tem- perature is pretty equ.al and never very low, and covered with straw or mats ; but in the spring, they should be frequently examined and turned over; those which are decayed should be removed, and the shoots broken off closely, if any of them have sprouted. 4559. Frost appears to have the singular properly of converting the starch of potatoes into sugar ; accordingly when they are affected by frost, or are as it is called frost-bitten, they become sweet, and in this state are no longer fit to be eaten, but are generally given to cattle, or are employed for the distillation of spirits, or the making of beer, for which they are even fitter than when fresh. If only slightly inj ured by the frost, they may be partially restored by thawing them in cold water. 4560. Carroll and turnips may be preserved through the winter by taking them up and keeping them in pits, or in a dry cellar in sand, secure from frost. The heads and roots should not be cut off. 4561. Onions, when pulled up, should be laid thinly on a gravel walk, and turned every day to dry. When thoroughly dried, they are usually strung together by the tails, and hung up in a dry, well-aired place, till wanted for use. Cabbages are in some places preserved all winter by burying them in the ground, out of the reach of the frost. 4562. WalnuUi, filbertji, and chestnuts are preserved by drying thorn ; then packing them in jars, boxes, or casks, with fine clean sand that has been well dried before the fire, or they may be buried in a pit in the ground lined with straw.