Chap. IX. COSMETICS. 1041 Oil of cloves, and of cinnamon, are occasionally used by the perfumers; they are made in the Indian islands. Oil of coriander is very fragrant, but scarce ; it costs three guineas an ounce. Essence of rondatella, much recommended for perfuming handkerchiefs, &c.; it retains its perfume for several days. Essence of jessaini7ie is a fixed oil saturated with the aroma of the flowers of jessamine. It is expensive, as it comes from India, and some from Italy; it is little known here. The best has a double impregnation of the flowers, and will keep several years ; but that which has only a single impregnation will not keep above a year. Essence or oil of orange flowers, called neroli, is made abroad, as it cannot be obtained but from the fresh flowers of the orange. Essence ofbergamot is prepared from a species of lemon, Citrus limetta. The essence is extracted by pressure from the rind of the fruit; it is extremely common, and is brought from Italy. Oil of citrons and of lemons,— oil pressed from the peel of the citron and lemon. Essence of violets.— What is sold under this name is said to be fi-om the root of the Florentine orris, and has an odour like violets. Essence of jonquil, — prepared from narcissus flowers. 6185. Tlie spirits of the perfumer are odoriferous substances dissolved in spirits of •wine, whether the essential oils of plants or other matters, or spirit of lavender, amber- gris, &c. There is much confusion in the mode of designating these preparations, some calling them waters ; thus, Hungary water and eau de Cologne, though named waters, are spirituous preparations. The manner of preparing these will be given in Book XX. " On the Still Room." 6186. List of perfumed spirits ; Spirit of bprgaitiotte iaveiuler ambergris music roses jasmine mint benjamin Some of these are used for perfuming wearing apparel, as handkerchiefs, shawls, &c.; others are partly remedial, and are employed by apothecaries. Tincture of roses is easily made, by taking the leaves of the common rose and putting them, without pressing, into a bottle. Pour some good spirits of wine upon them ; close the bottle, and let it stand until it is required for use. This will keep for years, and yields a perfume little inferior to attar of roses. 6187. It is essential that the rectified spirit or spirit of wine used in making perfumes should be perfectly goad. To try its purity, rub a little in the palm of the hand very quickly, until it has completely dried away ; if the smell it leaves be agreeable, it is good; but if it be empyreumatic and nauseous, the spirit is foul, and should not be used. 6188. Perfumed or distilled waters consist of water having dissolved in it a small quan- tity of odoriferous essential oils, and the manner of preparing them will be given in Book XX. As an example we may give here honey water. llnney wafer— Take two pounds of tlie best clarified iioney ; add a little water, and melt it in a water- bath ; put in rose petals, orange linwers, tiie rind of two lemons, some coriander, vanilla and cloves. Add then a sufficient quantity of rectified spirit of wine ; bruise the ingredients again, and add .mother pound of honey, and mix the whole well. .Suffer this to infuse for eight days, .md then distil with a water-bath. Bose water. — The manner of preparing this will be described in Book XX. "Still Room." That sold in the shops is chiefly made from rose petals preserved with salt. 6189. List of perfumed waters : — Esprit de Venus millefleurs Eau de Cologne Hungary water Spirit of tuberose cassia violets citron Spirit of cloves goujac jonquil pinks bergamot orange Eau de luce. Lavender water Hose water Honey water Hirngfiry water Bergamot water Portugal water Eau de millefleurs Eau sans iiareil Eau dc Carmes Jessamine water Myrtle water Cordova water Eau dc muusscUne. Sect. V. PA8TILES. Pastiles are small conical shapes made up chiefly out of aromatic resins, which, when set on fire, give an agreeable odour for the purpose of perfuming the apartment ; and it is by some persons erroneously supposed to correct the bad air which it may contain, (See Book III. "On Ventilation.") They are made by mixing gum benjamin, storax, labdantim, frankincense, or any other similar odoriferous gums, finely powdered, ii;^o a paste with gum water, and powdered charcoal and saltpetre. When tiie paste is stilF enough, it may be rolled up into the conical shapes, about three quarters of an inch long, and dried. TiMin. I'ailil/cs ii tn rote 12 ounces of Rinn, 12 do. of olibanum In tears, 12 do. of storax, 8 do. of nitre 10 do. of powder of pale roses, 3 pounds of charcoal pow<ler, 1 ounce of essence of roses. * 3 X