Book [. 6 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. SKETCH OF THE HISTOUY OF STYLE IN DOMESTIC ARCHITECTUIiE. 26. Our knowledge is extremely limited respecting the private dwellings of the Tarious nations of antiquity. We have, indeed, the descriptions of a few in classical writings, and there are some actual remains in Pompeii; but though from the latter we may derive mucli information as to the distribution of the apartments and their manner of decoration, yet they are in too ruined a state to exhibit completely the designs of the interior of the houses. Notwithstanding the taste exhibited in many parts of these antique domestic dwellings, yet they were very deficient in many circumstances which afford so much comfort in modern times, particularly in their want of glass windows, and the various modes of pro- ducing artificial warmth which render our houses so agreeable in all weathers. It does not appear that it was the custom among the ancients, until a late period, to effect in the exterior of their ordinary domestic dwellings any approach towards the magnificent style of their public edifices; and we may perhaps consider this as a proof of their judgment, since it preserved the great distinction of character which ought to form one of the elements of architectural design. For the Temple was reserved the lofty and conspicuous portico, with its pediment filled with rich sculpture; and on the Forum and other national edifices were lavished those examples of superbly decorative architecture, whose fragments, having survived the ^vreck of ages, still excite our admiration. But the habitations of individuals were at first, in all probability, but sparingly so ornamented, and were chiefly remarkable for their interior arrangements. The same thing may be observed in those parts of the world where the style of domestic architecture is still influenced by the habits of the classical period. Wealth, and its attendant luxury, at length produced ostentation, and with it bad taste.* 27. It is remarkable, that at an early period in the history of Greece, architecture as well ■ as sculpture had arrived at the highest degree of perfection ; and the exquisite taste ex- hibited in what remains to us of tlieir edifices excites our utmost admiration. But these remains consist chiefly of temples, which, though individually different, have a great similarity of character ; and there is little to guide us in forming ideas of the style adopted in other buildings. The columns, with their entablatures, that always surrounded their temples, gave them their chief character; and these are distinguished into various kinds, which are now termed the " orders " of Grecian architecture. Three orders are properly Greek -r- the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian; named from the several places where the)- were invented, or chiefly employed. We have perfect examples of them still remaining in antique buildings. Fig. I. 2. Fiq. 1. is a part of the shaft of a Greek Doric column, with its entablature, such as it is seen in the Parthenon at Athens; it is distinguished by the peculiar flutings on the column, and the want of a base to the shaft. A good example may be seen in the portico of the Colisseum, Regent's Park, London. Fiq. 2. is an example of the Doric order as altered by the Romans, and such as iiad been" used by the architects of the Cinque Cento period; it is still employed imdcr the name of riie Roman Doric. • Vitnivhis, an nrcliitfct probably of the Augii8t.iii ago, has doscribcd tlic intprlor arranRcuiriit of ItoiDan (lwclliiiR.1; anil to his work, and those of his commentators, we refer the reader who is dcsirons of innuirhig into the subject. But information may be more easily obtained from " GcU's Pompeii," the " Library of Entertaining Knowledge," ami other modern works.