374 ON FOOD. Book Vil. a little remarlcable, that the domesticated sheep depends almost entii'ely upon man for his support; left to itself, it becomes the subject of disease, and the prey of ferocious beasts. 18.30. Tha varieties of sheep that are dispersed over the globe are almost endless : even in this country they are so numerous as scarcely to be described with accuracy. Of the varieties of British sheep, some are particularly valuable on account of their fleeces, and others for the good quality of the mutton which they afford. Some are of large size, and fatten readily • others are of a smaller breed, and, though they do not become so fat, they are distinguished by the fine flavour of their meat. The English breeds may be divided generally into, l.the niouniain breed, as those in Wales and the Highlands of Scotland; 2. the short-wooUed breed, as the south-down and Norfolk; and 3. the lony-woolled breed, as the Leicestershire sheep. It is not certain what was the original stock. ' 1837. Tlic quality of the mutton varies much in the different breeds. In the large, long- haired sheep, it is coarse-grained, but disposed to be fat. In the smaller, and short- wooUed breed, the flesh is closest grained and highest flavoured ; but the quality of the flesh is probably most affected by that of the food upon which the flocks are fed. Those Avhich range over the mountainous districts of Wales and Scotland, or the chalk downs of England, and feed upon the wild herbage, possess a flavour very superior to those kept in rich pastures and on marsh land. The Welsh mutton is particularly small and lean, but of the finest flavour, and the south-down mutton is also excellent. Marsh-fed mutton often becomes extremely fat, but the meat has a rank taste. Turnips, hay, chaff, bran, corn, and other vegetables, as likewise oil cake and grains, are employed for fattening sheep for the market; but such mutton is never so good as that produced where the animals can range in freedom. It is to be observed, that the management favourable for culti- vating long wool is imfavourable for the production of fine mutton. 1838. Mutton, as food, is considered as highly nutritious, light, and easy of digestion ; but tup mutton, or the flesh of the ram, has a strong disagreeable flavour, and is usually very tough. Ewe mutton is good if under two years old; but after that, when the ewes are called crones, the mutton becomes coarse and tough. The mutton of the wedder is the most esteemed. In sheep, more than in any other animal, the meat improves in a certain advanced period of its life. It is in perfection at five years old, and is not so good younger. It is then sapid, full-flavoured, and firm, without being tough, and the fat has become hard. At three years old, as commonly procured from the butcher, it is well tasted, but is by no means comparable to that at five years. Mutton younger than three years is deficient in flavour, and is pale in colour. Meat which is half mutton and half lamb is very unpalatable. Mr. Ude says, "Always choose mutton of a dark colour, and marble-like." The hind quarter, or the leg, when intended for roasting, is generally hung up in winter for several weeks with the view of making it more tender, or in summer as long as it can be kept without a taint. By this a dark colour is induced. 1839. Sheep are liable to many diseases, but none of tliese is so fatal as what is named the rot, whidi often carries off immense numbers, and is supposed to be produced by the wetness of the soil on which they feed- The mutton of sucli sheep as die of this disease is uniit for food. 1840. In England, the working classes often prefer very fat mutton, which they cook witli vegetables, par- ticularly potatoes ; but this is certainly not so wholesome and nutritious as meat somewhat leaner, and it is seldom or never brought to the tables of the affluent. 1841. Lamb, as food, is milder, more tender, and less exciting than mutton. Lambs are sometimes fatted on grass for the butcher, and sometimes reared by suckling, or by hand, on milk. Those which are suckled by the mothers, and fattened in houses, and hence called house lamb, are the earliest iu the spring season, beginning to be ready in December, and continuing till February, before the natm-al lambing season commences: but in great towns it may be bad almost all the year round. The Dorsetshire breed of sheep has the peculiar property of producing lambs at almost any period of the year, and they are particularly valued for supplying the London market through the year with house lamb. If lambs are allowed to be suckled by their mothers for sbc months, or a little more (and it is the same thing with veal), the flesh becomes more nourishing and digest- ible than if they are weaned at two months, as they generally are. As in all similar cases, great attention to cleanliness, and to giving plenty of nourishing food, are foimd to effect the objects of rearing most expeditiously and completely. 1842. The grass-fed lamb comes next in season, in April and May, and continues tlD Christmas. 1843. It is sometimes the practice of farmers to manage the ewes so that they may pro- duce lambs almost at any time of the year, long before the natural season, and as early as September and October ; and, by keeping them in cold or hilly pa.stures, retard their lambing until November and December. IHll A species of sheep is comtnan in Asia .Wnoc, as at Aleppo, and likewl.sc in the south of .■\frica, remark- able for their large and fat tails. This part of the animal in these countries consists almost entirely of a m.iss of substance bi twern fat and m.irrow, which is used in cooking, and often instead nf butter. Onc ol these tails will often weigh from twenty to fifty pounds ; and when they are very lar(,'c. it Is customjiry to fiJ a piece of thin board beneath to carry the tail, and prevent injury to it, as the under side is not covered wltl thick wool like the upper. .Some have even little cars which they fix to the sheep to l.ny their enormous t«iP upon. k