-:hap. III. FUMIGATION, OR DISINFECTING BUILDINGS. 117 I 3 Ss'^evertheless, there may be cases and occasions, where the knowledge of what is done in nthcr places may be useful. In the ventilation of the houses of Parliament which has Droved so successful, mechanical means on a great scale have been employed. CHAP. ni. FUMIGATION, OR DISINFECTING BUILDINGS OR APARTMENTS. 522. Comiected with the subject of ventilation^ or renewing the air, in ordinary cases, is 'hat of fumigation, or disinfecting the air, when it is contaminated by pestilential or other Highly noxious effluviae, which are capable of exciting immediate disease. The general Ideleterious nature of several gases, as carbonic acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, carburetted Hydrogen, phosphuretted hydrogen, &c. has been already mentioned; but there are iinany vaporous bodies, the existence of which we know or surmise only from our ex- oerience of their effects, but of the actual nature and chemical composition of which we are .'Otally ignorant; and these go under the general name of miasma, or noxious effluviaj. '?rom the facts which are known, there can be no doubt that, in limited spaces, as in rrowded ships, gaols, and hospitals, and particularly where cleanliness is neglected, or in confined apartments, where typhus and other infectious fevers exist, the atmosphere is ooaded with certain exhalations, fumes, or vapours, which are the cause of contagion ; irjid repeated endeavours have been made to neutralise these by some chemical means. 523. These endeavours have been productive of useful results; and it is now known lihat several substances have the property of destroying the noxious quality of at least some iffluvice, particularly those of certain fevers, and the poison arising from pestilence. 524. Muriatic acid was tried with success by Morveau, in 1773, in disinfecting the air; imd though more powerful means are now known, it will be useful to describe this, among (tber methods, since circumstances may sometimes prevent the most efficient from being vesorted to. To employ muriatic acid, put some common salt into an earthenware dish, and ■)0ur upon it some sulphuric acid : immediately whitish fumes will arise, which consist of lihe muriatic acid gas ; they will blend with the air, and become invisible, but their presence < yill be perceived, from their suffocating smell. All metallic substances, capable of being vorroded by the acid vapours, should be removed; the room or building to be disinfected ilihould be shut up for some hours, and a current of air passed through it before it is again -nhabited. In this way Morveau disinfected the cathedral of Dijon, which had been vendered dangerous from the putrid emanations from the burial vaults beneath. He like- 'vise purified, in the same manner, the air of the prison infected through a malignant ■ ever. Twelve parts of acid to fifteen parts of salt is a good proportion. No heat is re- li[uired. 525. Nitric acid fumes have been employed for the same purpose. These were first inroposed by Dr. Johnston of Kidderminster, and successfidly employed by Dr. Car- unichael Smythe, in 1780, to whom the Parliament voted 10,000Z. for disinfecting the iilepot of Spanish prisoners at Winchester, where a fever had proved very fatal. To pre- \)are this gas, put equal parts of poimded nitre or saltpetre, and sulphuric acid, in a dish, i-is in the last case. The nitric acid fumes, which are red, are not so effectual as the muriatic, but they have a less suffocating odour, and may therefore be employed in places Vrom which the sick cannot be removed. For a chamber containing 700 cubic feet of air, U drachms of nitre, and 2 drachms sulphuric acid are sufficient. They may be put into a l-.ea-cup, and stirred with a tobacco-pipe. But as nitric acid can be purchased at every ■bhemist's shop, a simpler mode of using it, when it can be procured, is to place a two ■ounce phial full of the fuming nitrous acid, with the stopper out, on the mantle shelf in the ri'ooms which it is wished to guard from infection. The red fumes which constantly issue Frrom the acid will be sufficient for the purpose ; they produce an odour not disagreeable, Xivhich may be felt on coming into the room, but not enough to be perceived on remaining "iome time in it, and they destroy the close and unpleasant smell of a sick chamber. ■ Some recommend putting sulphuric acid upon a mixture of saltpetre and of common ' lalt: it is evident that thus both muriatic and nitric acid fumes will be formed ; but these, 1- n large quantity, will be too suffocating for a chamber in which the patient is to remain, and will require that all articles of steel should be removed before the fumigation. In Msmall quantities they may be employed; but the nitric acid alone appears preferable. 526. Chlorine is the most effectual gas for the purpose of disinfccling the air in apart- "Henls. It was first suggested by Fourcroy, in 1791, and it is now very generally em- 1 ployed. It has the advantage of destroying some noxious vapours that the above-men- itioned gases have little effect upon, as sulphuretted hydrogen ; and it is, upon the whole, nmore to be depended upon than any other similar substance. To produce chlorine for the