1211 SICKNESS IN THE NURSERY. AP. II. >od. In a fe-w days more the patient feels chilly, and there is an undefined sensation of [disposition; shivering fits occur from time to time, and soon afterwards pain in the head, ick, and limbs, and at the pit of the stomach ; in children a convulsi-ve fit, or several fits, 1 1 ly occur, and these are seldom dangerous, and certainly do not indicate a particularly ere attack. There is often sickness and vomiting. Then in about forty-eight hours i f the first shivering fit, minute pimples are discoverable on the face and forehead ; the des of the nose, chin, and upper lip are the parts first affected; then the rest of the face, le neck, the wrists, and ultimately the rest of the body. These pimples may be far part from each other, or set close together, so as to unite each other; from this two arieties have been made, the distinct and the confluent. The pimples increase in size, I lid a liquid is effused into them ; in medical language, they become pustular, or, as ! le common people say, they acquire " heads." The fluid is at first clear, but it becomes 1 fter a time turbid and yellow. The majority of the pustules have a depression in the entre, which is characteristic of the small-pox eruption. After seven days the eruption •; at its height; it then " tm-ns," and yellowish or brownish scabs form and drop off in the [ ourse of a few days more. Immediately before the turning of the pustules there may be an increase of fever, the ulse becomes quicker, and there may be considerable delirium. The face swells ; the \ es are closed ; the feet and hands are swollen ; there is considerable itching of the skin; 1 the child picks the scabs till they bleed, and form perhaps quite a sore place, nich is a description of many of the milder cases ; it would be here impossible to give account of the many different and severe varieties which may occur. It is impossible for any one to say with certainty, from the first symptoms only, that iiiall-pox is impending ; but the mother cannot do better than give an aperient of castor 11, the dose of which must be proportioned to the age of the child, and the warm bath lay be used once. During the course of small-pox, the diet should be of the mildest kind ; cooling drinks 10 very useful, and are taken with eagerness. The advantages of cool air and cleanliness re now universally acknowledged. It is, however, still a practice among many old nurses, • I hen they are engaged to attend children, to endeavour to "throw out the pock," as I hey term their object, by stimulating remedies, particularly saffron and aromatic waters ■ vith a little spirit. It is necessary in many cases to keep strict guard over nurses, lest I hey give more to their charge than is recommended by the medical attendant, and the 'Id heating regimen was scarcely more injurious, than the practice of giving saffron, Iiirits, and "Godfrey's cordial," in the first few days of small-pox. Any cough, or 11 eathlessness, or hoarseness at an early stage of small-pox should be especially noticed 1 ml reported to the physician. The motions also should be observed every day ; some- I imes they are dark and slimy, but more frequently perhaps they are whiter than natural 1 iiid watery ; in either case the circumstances must not be overlooked. Various plans have been tried to prevent the " putting" of small-pox, a thing of great niportance, on the face. From the structure of the small-pox pustule we do not think any 111 asures likely to be of much benefit. Sometimes letting out the fluid with a needle has pjieared to be of service ; medical men often try some other plans, such as covering the ■ with a mask of mild mercurial ointment, applying a solution of lunar caustic, but :i little benefit. Drying powders, as of calamine or starch, may be used when the fluid I nil the pustules is very profuse. To lessen the itching, cold cream or sweet oil are itten used, and the fingers of children should be covered with cotton wool, secured on ly a linen glove, to prevent excoriation from continual scratching. In convalescence, iiiiritious diet must be very cautiously given ; change of air, particularly at the sea-side, N extremely useful. ^ 7158. Vaccination.—In the present day, the advantages of Jenner's great discovery we everywhere felt and universally acknowledged. Just conceptions of its value have ai[)erseded on the one hand the opposition of ignorance, and on the other the extravagant ' •xpectations of benefit which many of its early supporters entertained. Although in naiiy cases its protective influence against small-pox is perfect, yet in others it fails ; the •auses of its failure are sometimes not obvious, but certainly this occasionally results from he vaccine eruption not running its proper course, but being deficient in some important ' ii ticular. Our object at the present time is to portray its necessary changes, in order liat any deviation from these may be noticed, and lead to a renewal of the vaccination. It is customary to vaccinate children a few weeks after birth; unless the child be remarkable sickly, there seems no reason to prevent its being done when a week or a loi tnight old; but as young children are not very susceptible of the small-pox contagion, it is often delayed for several months. The vaccine matter is inserted, by means of a hincet, on the outside of the upper part of the arm. On the third day after its insertion, llie little wound or wounds, for several punctures are commonly made, appear red and a little swelled. On the fifth day a little vesicle is seen, filled with a transparent fluid ; this vesicle is circular or oval. On the eighth day the vesicle is seen to have considerably enlarged ; in colour it is yellowish or pearly, with a depression in the centre ; the sink