Book X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 798 Sect. IV. PRESERVING VEGETABLES BY SALT. 4570. Any vegetables may be preserved in a strong brine made by dissolving four pounds of salt in a gallon of water ; the vegetables are put into this and kept quite covered with it. French beans, artichokes, olives, samphire, and barberries are often preserved in this manner. In Holland and Germany, where large quantities of French or kidney beans are salted in every family, a machine is used for cutting them expeditiously which greatly resembles a turnip slicer. The sliced beans are immediately put into a cask with alternate layers of salt, and a weight being put upon them, they are pressed till they begin to ferment slightly; the salt liquor is then poured off and they are covered up and put into the cellar as store. Before cooking, they are steeped in fresh water, and are found to be an excel- lent corrective of the oily qualities of animal food. They are preserved thus for sea store. Sect. V. PRESERVING VEGETABLES BY VINEGAR. We have already mentioned the antiseptic property of vinegar. 4577. Saucr kimit is the name of a preparation of cabbage by means of salt and vinegar much used in Germany, and which is likewise found of particular value in long voyages. The mode of preparing it, as described by Parmentier, is the following: The heads of white winter cabbages, after removing the outer leaves, are to be cut into fine shi-eds ; and spread out upon a cloth in the shade. A cask which has had vinegar in it is to be se- lected, or if none can be had, the inside should be rubbed over with vinegar, or sauer kraut liquor. A layer of salt is to be put in the bottom of the cask, caraway seeds are to be mixed with shreds of cabbage, and they are to be packed in the cask to the depth of four or six inches; and layers of this kind with salt between each layer are added till the cask is full, stamping them down with a wooden stammer, as they are put in to half their original bulk ; some mix a little pepper and salad oil with the salt. Some salt is to be put on the top, and some of the outside leaves of cabbages. About two pounds of salt are necessary for twenty middle-sized cabbages. The head of the barrel is to be placed upon the cabbage leaves, and must be loaded with heav}' stones ; and a common method is for a man who has clean wooden shoes on to tread the cabbage down in the cask A fermentation will take place, and some juice will be given out, which is green, muddy and fetid ; this rises to the surface, and is to be re-placed by fresh brine. When the ferment- ation is over, the casks are closed up. Cabbages are preferred, but any other vegetables may be treated in the same manner. In this country, vegetables are seldom preserved by means of vinegar, except when in- tended for pickles, which are employed only as condiments to add to various dishes. Pickles. 4578. There are three modes of pickling in common iise. First method. Such vegetables as are hot of themselves, and do not require the addition of spices, and such as do not require to be softened by heat, as capsicums, chili, nasturtiums, button onions, radish pods, horse-radish, garlic, and eschalots, are simply put into the strongest vinegar. Some use distilled vinegar, white wine vinegar, or wood vinegar. The jars are half filled with this, and when the vegetables are put in, they are immediately tied down with bladder, leather, or sheet India rubber. Second method.—Heating vinegar and spice, and pouring them hot over the vegetables to be pickled, which are previously prepared by sprinkling with salt, or immersing in brine. This method is applied to gherkins, French beans, cabbage, brocoli, cauliflowers, onions, &c. In this method the vinegar is not boiled, as this would diminish its strength by evaporation. The third method, is where the vegetables require softening by heat, as walnuts, arti- choke bottoms, beet root, and sometimes onions and cauliflowers. 4570. In the two last methods, which include the common practice of pickling, it is neces- sary that the substance of the vegetables should be penetrated by the vinegar. As all vegetables abound with their peculiar juices, which, if mixed with the vinegar, would be so diluted as to spoil, it becomes necessary in the first i)lace to throw .salt on the vegetables, which to a certain degree combines with their juices, and is rendered fluid, or they may be boiled in a strong brine of common salt ; and this process is in many in- stances facilitated, as in the case of walnuts, cucumbers, itc, which are covered with a thick skin, by penetrating the vegetables with a needle, so that the action of the salt may be more immediate and penetrating. This loss of the natural juice is afterwards sup- plied by the vinegar they imbibe.