HOUSEHOLD CLEANING. lChap. II. 351 nmust be wiped very dry and put iuto the box to be most thoroughly cleaned on the booard. Sect. V. CLEANLINESS, A MEANS OF EXEMPTION FROM TROUBLESOME INSECTS. 1G93. Cleanliness, undoubtedly, ean eflFect better than any other means the destruction [>f)f, and freedom from, those insects whom nature leads to harbour in houses, and in the f.'icinity of beds. Such insects, in then- first state of existence, are nourished by the dust, Kvhich collects in the downy fabric of woollen articles especially. In the fur of the cat, innd hairy skin of the dog, they also find the warmth and nutriment which brings them ^o maturity. SoBSECT. 1. —Fleas and Bugs. 1694. Of the flea, one of the most annoying of such invaders of domestic comfort, par- idcnlarly where children are inmates, it has been said that to destroy one in the month of ■iMarch is to exempt a house of a hundred. The greatest security is that of keeping rooms L^s free from dust as it is possible. ' Carpets, blankets, and everything manufactured from wool, should be so well attended to as to orevent nny accumulation of dust from settling in them. The flea seeks to lay its eggs wherever dust and down jire combined, for in them consist the nourishment nature has ordained lor its otfspring. 16115. The blankets used in the cribs and beds of children should, for this reason, be daily sh,-iken, and, teeather permitting, hung before an open window that the air may pass through and clear from dust their Moselv woven fabrics, I 1696. The vicinity of dog-kennels and pigeon cotes are amongst the causes of the rapid production of fleas 11 some houses. Children, in particular, sufl'er from the inflammation and consequent irritation caused by oea-bites. Hence it should be a particular object to prevent its infesting the nursery. Many recipes for this •urpose have been circulated, but none appear to be entirely successful. 1 1697. A lump of camphor left in the pwers whence the water is taken in which children are washed, and in ihich portions of the camphor being dissolved gradually in the water, it is said, renders the skin washed in it lri)noxious to the flea: but this is very doubtful. 1698. TJie bug is chiefly found in large towns. It is a more formidable enemy than boe flea, because it evades detection by the most rigid concealment dm-ing the day, nmerging only at night from its dark lurking-places. I If not infesting the wood-work of old houses, or the cracks of the plaster-work, still it may be brought ttito our dwellings by many different channels. Sometimes bugs have been introduced between the luavesofold books; m wicker-baskets, which they are said peculiarly to aflect ; in servants* trunks; and reran in the folds of fresh washed linen from the laundress's houses. Hence in London, how to prevent their increase, as well as to remcdt; the evil entirely, is sometimes ditticult. 11699. Prevention of the increase both of bug and flea in houses Is mainly in the hands of housemaids. Let mem carefully practise the cleiinly arts of their department, and they will, with more certainty, effect the Dxaitation, even to extermination, of this foe to personal comfort, than by the use of corrosive sublimate, or nan that of any other kind of poison. The ground upon which cleanliness proves so effectual in checkirs loe increase of the flea has been shown in a foregoing paragraph. It may be well to point out how similar HTects may spring from the same cause. 11700. As the bug lives, it is said, only a year, the preventive means should be principally applied to check J J amazing increase each year by destroying the eggs. These are deposited, generally, in scarcely visible ■lacks and holes in the wood-work of bedsteads and skirting boards. There they might remain until the • 'oper period should arrive for the commencement of their warfare on the human species. The great object of e housemaid must be to displace and wash away these embryo torments, and this, witli her scourijig brush ui cold soup and water, she may very m.iterially efli'ct. The bristles of her brush will enter wliere no Tger implement could, and detach them from the places where they adhere. If housemaids once in the eek durmgthe summer were to scrub with their brushes and cold water all the wood-work of each bed, id to carry the wet mop or scouring flannel under the beds daily and by the skirting-board, the increase of •is odious msect would be prevented, especially if the bedding and hangings were also frequently cleared ; dust by brushing or shaking them out in the ojien air. ' 1701. Bedsteads much infested should be taken to pieces twice a year, in the spring and itumn, and the joints and head-board should be well scrubbed with the scrubbing brush. "IT those who doubt this truth, are subjoined such recipes as have been adopted in some ises, and which for a short time may have checked the evil in them. 1. J'nr-uia/fr washed over the wood-work of bedsteads. 2. A solution of potash also applied to the work of bedstca<ls. 3. A paste composed of Scotch snuff and soft soap, to be inserted witliin the joints or ■ L( ks in the wooden parts of bedsteads. 4. Bug poison ; spirits of wine, half pint; spirits of turpentine, half t , crude s.al-.amninni.ic, I oz.; corrosive sublimate, 1 oz. ; camphor, 1 oz. This mixture should be inserted the joints of bedsteads with a syringe, and with a sponge fastened to a stick; every other part of the il-work must be washed with it. II11703. Spirit of turpentine also kills the insects, though it is more volatile, and there- rro less preventive and secure than the former recipe. 11704. Many puisoiis are to be purchased at chemists for the destruction of bugs ; but I is unpleasant, if not dangerous, to have such mixtures in a house ; and, with confidence I ; may a.'ssert that they are all far less efl'ectual than the frequent application of the j' luring brush and cold soap and water to the bedsteads, and daily searching habits of panliness in respect to the other parts of the bed furniture. Tiiri. \Vc will add the following precautionary hints. Ttie heads of all bedsteads should stand a few Inches from the walls. If there be any cracks in the paper behind tlu^ bed's head they sliould be carefully pasted I with fresh paper; or, if the paper become loose from he wall, that also should be again closed <ast.