ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 304 so mucli alkali that any part of it is soluble in acids. The oxides of lead, chiefly litharge and red lead, are found to be of singular use in the manufacture of the finer kinds of glass, rendering it more dense, tliongh sol'ter and easier to cut. The French use more lead in their glass than is the pi-actice in this country ; on this account their glass, though more brilliant, is softer. In glass, but particularly in flint glass, more alkali is used than is necessary to flux the sand ; and when the whole is in fusion, the fire is continued so as to volatilise the superabundant quantity. But if too large an excess of alkali be left in the glass, it will attract water from the atmosphere, and be partly dissolved ; and to this cause may be attributed the decay of some old glass. Indeed, a certain proportion of alkali fused with the silica will make a glass that will even completely dissolve in water. Sect. III. PEOCESS OF GLASS-BLOWING. 1342. The general process employed in the manufacture of glass is the following; premising that all those who have never yet witnessed it should take the first opportunity of visiting a glass house, since no verbal description alone can convey a perfect idea of the extraor- dinary, and apparently almost magical, dexterity by which all the various articles of glass in daily use are made. Glass-houses are commonly large conical buildings, from 60 to 100 feet high, and from .50 to 80 feet in diameter, having the furnace in the centre. 1343. When the materials are properly prepared by a process called fritting, yiYiich 15 a commencement of vitrification, they are thrown into a large kind of crucibles or pots, which have been previously brought to a white heat in the furnace in which the fusion is made. Great care is bestowed in the fabrication of these crucibles or glass pots, as they must resist the most intense heat without melting or cracking. They should consist of five parts of the best Stourbridge fire-clay, and one part of old broken crucibles ground to powder, and a red clay. Great nicety is required in kneading and mixing these together, for the breaking of a pot would be a serious accident. They are about forty inches deep and wide, and from two to four inches in thickness. In about thirty or forty hours the materials melt, and gradually a white porous scum rises to the surface, called glass gall: this consists of salts and various impurities in the glass, which is not perfect untU the ■whole of this is removed : it is purchased and used by the refiners as a powerful flux. To ascertain the purity of the glass a little is taken out from time to time. A very intense heat is necessary, because the alkali will not combine with the silica until the carbonic acid and water are completely driven off, and it retains the last portion of these with remarkable obstinacy : when that is effected the combination and fusion take place. The fuel employed in this country is coal: in France they use wood. In the glass-houses the workmen are employed day and night, because it is necessary that the work should go on without intermission till all the melted glass in the furnace is exhausted. 1344. Every ohject of glass, plate glass excepted, is forvicd from a hollow globe tltat has been produced by blowing. The principal implement used by the glass-blower is an iron tube about five feet long. This he dips into the pot with melted glass, which has been suffered to cool till it has acquired the proper consistence, as at first it is too fluid, and a proper quantity of material is taken out adhering to it. The workman now applies his jnouth to the tube, and blows strongly through it, causing the glass to be distended by degrees into a hollow globe. By alternately heating this again at the mouth of the fur- nace, blowing it larger, and occasionally rolling it upon a flat table, and fashioning and cutting it with various tools, the plastic substance is at last skilfully made into all the various articles in use. As soon as the various pieces are finished, they are put into the annealing furnace, where they are heated to a particular temperature, and then sufiered to cool very gradually. 1345. Glass, brittle as it is, would be much more so were it not annealed; the annealing consists in again heating the various articles of glass and letting them cool very slowly, and when this operation is imperfectly performed, it is more brittle than ordinary ; •window glass in that state cuts badly with the diamond, and often flies in a direction different from that which was intended. Sect. IV. PROPERTIES OF GLASS. 1346. Glass, when well made, is perfectly transparent and colourless. It is very brittle •when cold, but, by the application of a high degree of heat, it becomes so flexible and tenacious as to be readily fashioned into any form that fancy may dictate, or may be made so fluid as to be pressed into moulds. Its ductility is so great, when soft, that it can be drawn out or spun into elastic threads of extreme fineness, and these retain their ela.sticity for any length of time. Glass is absolutely impermeable to air and water, even under any