ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 178 seasoned is apt to warp, and the work will sometimes come to pieces, or cause defects not easily remedied: and here appears the superiority of manufacturers who have sufficient capital to keep materials long enough on their own premises to ensure their being com- pletely seasoned. 786. Wood is sawed into logs or into planks in the countries where it grows : and it is subdivided here into the sizes requisite for different kinds of work ; for which purpose steam machinery is occasionally employed in a few of the large workshops : circular saws are used for this purpose. 787. When wood is required of curved forms in cabinet work, it is generally cut out of the solid, which is very expensive, particularly when the wood is of a rare kind : but in this department, as well as in joinery, wood is occasionally bent by first softening it with steam, then bending it into the required form, and fixing it there by drying. This method has been practised from time immemorial in Russia, where it has been applied, even to making cart wheels. 788. The veneering of furniture is employed to obtain a very beautiful wood at less expense. The choicest specimens of mahogany are considered too valuable to be wrought up in a solid state, and are therefore sawn into thin leaves or slices called veneers, which are fixed with glue as facings, either on mahogany of a coarser Idnd, or to oak or other hard woods. By these means this beautiful substance may be made to cover a great extent of surface : and the parts, by judicious management, may be so united, as to appear like one entire piece. As the operation of veneering requires gi'eat skUl, and is sometimes aptto fail or be imperfect, veneered furniture is not so much to be depended upon as that which is made of solid wood. Such furniture requires more care ; it should be kept in dry situations, and, after having been exposed to damp, should not be placed too near a fire, as it is apt to warp. If the veneering has not been well executed, or the ground beneath is improper, the veneer wLU sometimes blister or come off. Deal is sometimes used to veneer upon, but it is a bad material: upon the whole however, the veneering of furniture is a great improvement, on account of the economical use of fine specimens of wood. Formerly, these veneers were cut by the pit or hand saw, but at present they are cut with much greater accuracy, as well as expedition, by large circular saws having a very thin blade, which cut twelve veneers out of a board one inch thick. 789. Furniture is sometimes executed entirely of a single kind of wood, as oak, mahogany, rosewood, ebony, &c. and sometimes several species of wood are used in the same article. The first is, generally, the best taste, and particularly when it is ornamented by carving: occasionally the tops of round tables are made of various pieces of the same kind of wood, so skilfully joined that the lines of junction are not to be traced without the closest inspection, or by means of the pattern produced by the different direction of the grain. Nothing can exceed the beauty of some modern English tables of this kind, made of native as well as foreign woods : and, upon the whole, we can safely recommend these as some of the most beautiful kinds of furniture. 790. Staining wood, in imitation of.a few of the more expensive kinds, such as rosewood, is now so successfully performed, that it can scarcely be distinguished from the original wood ; and although this stain is not perfectly durable, yet it is sufficient for a number of ordinary purposes : of course the difference in price between real and stained wood is very great. 791. Inlaying is a mode of ornamenting furniture resorted to by those who are not con- tent with the natural beauty of wood, or where a certain richness and gaiety is proper. When this inlaying is done with various kinds of wood, it is called marquetry; when inlaid with brass or tortoise-shell, it is tenned buhl. On these we shall make a few observations. 792. Marquetry is in wood what mosaic is in stone : pieces of various woods, or those which have been stained for the purpose, being put together. The art is very ancient, and was formerly held in great esteem. Some of the oldest specimens are executed only in black and white, and are termed morescocs: and it is said that the first who employed a great variety of colours was John of Verona, who was contemporary with Raphael. He stained his woods with various colours, and invented the method of prodiicing shadows on them by burning one edge. The art was much cultivated among the French in the seventeenth century : and may frequently be observed in furniture of that period. A design being made, the forms in it are cut out of the wood to be oniamented, and woods of various kinds or stained wood suitable for the various parts of the design are selected, cut to the proper shape, and fixed in with glue. The woods are now cut into thin veneers not above the thickness of the twelfth part of an inch, and afterwards sawed into the various shapes according to the design. Three or four pieces are usually sawed out together, if possible, on account of the thinness of the stuff; after they are glued down, the whole is put into a press to dry, planed over, polished and varnished. It is obvious that the utmost nicety in joining the several pieces is essential. Jlarquetry is sometimes confined to simple forms,"as squares, lozenges, &c., as in the floors of apartments : but all kinds of subjects have been occasionally represented on furniture. Some, however, as, for