Chap. IX* FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. 495 Britain, by the employment of artificial heat, in greater perfection, both as to size and flavour, than in the West Indies where the climate is natural to them. It grows wild in vast abundance in many parts of Africa and South America, and is cultivated in the hotter islands of the West Indies, where it requires but little attention to procure this elegant fruit in perfection and plenty. In Jamaica, pine-apples have become so prolific, that they are often used to flavour rum, and a wine is made from the fermented juice of the sweeter sorts nearly equal to malmsey. 2722. It has not been known in Europe above two hundred years, and has not been cultivated in England much above a century. It is stated that the first pine-apples raised in Europe were by M. la Cour of Leyden, about the middle of the seventeenth century, and it is said to have been first cultivated in England by Sir Matthew Decker of Richmond. In Kensington Palace there is a picture in which Charles II. is represented as receiving a pine-apple from his gardener, Rose, who is presenting it on his knees. 2723. Atpresent, pine-apples may be procured any day of the year in London, with more certainty than in their native countries, and of late their price has been very much reduced. It derives its name, probably, from the resemblance which the form of the fruit bears to that of the cone of the pine. This fruit is formed of many clustered tubercles, supporting crimson flowers: on the summit stands a crown of clustered leaves. WTiile the fruit is growing, spines shoot out on all sides, but as it approaches maturity, these become di-y and soft. It should be cut a little before it is quite ripe, and kept a few days. The largest pine-apple ever grown in this kingdom was cut lately from the hothouse of John Edwards, Esq., of Rheda, Glamorganshire, and was presented to the King at Windsor. It weighed 14 lbs. 12 oz. avoirdupois, was 12| inches high, exclusive of the crown, and 26 inches in circumference. It is the first of dessert fruits, and is likewise preserved in sugar, and made into marmalade. The malic and citric acids, which give to the juices when fully ripe their exquisite flavour, are abundant before maturity; the unripe juice is said even to have caustic properties, and at all times is so powerful as to corrode the knives with which the fruit is cut. In England after the crown has been twisted off, the fruit is cut in horizontal slices; but in the West Indies it is cut obliquely in the direction of the pips. SrasECT. 2. — Grape ( Vitis vim/era, Linn.). 2724. Next to the pine-apple, grapes, when in perfection, have always been considered the most delicious fruit for the dessert. 2725. The early history of the vine is involved in the same obscurity as that of most of our vegetable productions. Its antiquity is unknown : but from the Scriptures we learn that its cultivation was of very early date. Bacchus was imagined to have taught its use in making wine, and was in consequence elevated to the rank of a god. Humi)oldt says that the vine now cultivated in Europe grows wild on the banks of the Caspian Sea, and in Armenia, which countries and Persia are probably its native place. From Asia it passed into Greece and Egypt, and thence into Italy and the rest of Europe. The Romans planted it on the banks of the Rhine ; and France, now so remarkable for the excellence of its grapes, possessed none in the time of Strabo. It appears to have been brought into England towards the close of the Roman power, and in the time of the Anglo-Saxons it was cultivated in several parts of England; afterwards, while the monasteries existed, few of them were without their vineyard. It is a curious and interesting fact, which we shall enlarge upon in our account of wines, that in ancient times large quantities of wine were annually made in Britain. This has been supposed by some to indicate a change in our climate, — an opinion, however, which is not sufficiently supported. 2726. The grape vine has a limited range of latitude, extending from the twenty-first to the fiftieth degree of N. latitude. Some varieties of it are found wild in America, par- ticularly on the banks of the Ohio, where the French settlers have made tolerable wine from it It is also cultivated in the same situation in the southern hemisphere, in South America, the Cape of Good Hope, and Australia. 2727. Abundance of grapes ripen against walls in England at present, but the best sorts are raised in vineries and hothouses ; the former are so common that there is scarcely a kitchen-garden worth notice without one ; and, with the improvements of modern garden- ing, our hothouse grapes are not inferior in flavour to those produced in any part of the world. 2728. The luxuriance and size of the vine in warm climates is so great that it would scarcely be credited here, were it not well authenticated. Strabo relates that some bunches of grapes in Italy were a yard across. Bunches have been grown in Syria forty pounds in weight, but these are of a distinct species of grape. In England the bunches are usually from two to seven pounds, but they have been known to reach nineteen pounds.