GOO BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. lormed on steep hills by means of low stone walls built along the sides; and into the cavities thus formed earth is conveyed ; these walled terraces rise above each other, and thus form a kind of steps like magnificent staircases surrounding the hills. The walls answer several purposes: by upholding the earth they afford a soil for the roots of the vine, and they retain the water which flows down the hills, without, however, allowing it to stagnate; likewise the reflection of the sun's rays from the sides of the hill increases the heat considerably, and causes it to accumulate on the vines : the walls are also con- venient for fixing holes to train the vines upon. 3389. The season likewise makes a difference in die quality of grapes. In dry seasons the sugar will be more abundant, but the juice less in quantity : in wet seasons, on the contrary, the juice will be plentiful, but will contain much water and mucilage, with little sugar. Grapes when quite green are austere or styptic; next they are acid; and become sweeter as they grow ripe. 3390. The vine will grow in any soil that is not very wet, but it flourishes most in one that is dry and light; and though it thrives with great luxuriance in ricli soils, and pro- duces abundance of gi-apes, yet this fruit is not so fit for wine as that which grows on poorer land. It is generally the case that the grapes fittest for the table are the least so for making wine, which is often obtained of good quality from fruit of a harsh and austere taste. It is generally thought that the best soil is one that is of a liglit calcareous or loamy nature; but even sandy, gravelly, and stony are found to answer well. Volcanic soils are particularly well calculated for a vineyard ; thus some of the best wines of Italy are made in the neighbourhood of Vesuvius, and the famous Tokay is also the produce of a volcanic district. The vine likewise grows well in the debris of granitic rocks, as is the ease with that which produces the celebrated Hermitage. It appears even that the chemical composition of the soil is of less importance than its physical character. It has been observed that a black soil is particularly favourable from its absorbing heat. 3391. The manner of training varies in different countries. In Italy and other warm climates tliey are suffered to run up to a great height, and are trained on high trellises, or are allowed to spread with the utmost luxuriance, and to hang in festoons from tree to tree, the effect of which is described by travellers to be highly beautiful and picturesque. But in by far the greater part of Europe, the vines are trained on low wooden props. The French and Germans, who excel in this branch of economy, prefer the low training, in which they cut the vines down to a few feet or less; and although the fruit is dimi- nished in quantity by this management, its quality is much improved by its obtaining more of the sun's heat through reflection from the ground. "Those who have known vineyards only from the descriptions of poets are extremely disappointed in first viewing the stunted appearance of those in France and Germany. In the sandy parts of Spain the vines are even allowed to trail upon the ground. The modes of planting, propping, pruning, and renewing the vines have also a great influence on their produce in wine. 3392. The varieties of the vine are innumerable, differing in the size, colour, taste, and perfume of the fruit: of all fruits, perhaps none is so much altered in its nature and the proportion of its ingredients by the circumstances of climate and soil; no species of grape succeeding equally well in all climates. Good varieties degenerate by being transplanted from a warm to a cold climate ; and, on the contrary, the grape is sometimes improved by being carried from a cold to a warm one. The same climate, soil, and mode of culture, often produce wines of very different qualities. Situation and aspect alone, all other circumstances being the same, make a very great difference. The same vineyard, for example, according as its different parts have a northern or southei-n aspect, will produce wines of opposite characters ; as also will the same hill at its summit, middle, and bottom. In cold countries the southern slope of a rising ground is the most favourable situation, and in warm climates the east is foimd to be generally the best. Grapes form a very uncertain crop, and are much affected by wet seasons, hail-storms, and mists. The principal varieties of grapes which are chiefly cultivated for foreign wines are the red and white Chasselas or Muscadine; the Auvergnat ; the Frontignacor Muscat grape, white, red, and black ; the Damask grape ; the sweet water ; the raisin grape ; the malmsey grape; the malmsey Muscadine; the black Hamburg ; but there are many more varieties, impossible here to enumerate. Wine-growers seldom confine themselves to one kind of grape, several being usually mixed together in the vintage; but in some choice wines only one sort is used. 3393. The numhcr and variety of wines are almost infinite : every kingdom, every district, and sometimes each vineyard, producing a wine having some distinctive property, from which it receives a particulnr name. Thus we have the wines of Portugal, of France, and of the Rhine, each of a peculiar character; and the Tokay, Hock, and Constantia wines are each the produce of particular vineyards, their qualities depending on the varie- ties of the grape, as well as on several local circumstances and the modes of manufacture. Some have maintained that the vine ought not to be manured, when the production of