Gl (UUAP. I. ON HEAT. 2GG. Privies to be used !/nV/i07</!«aier may be constructed iu various ways. One is, to lihave a basin, as in a watercloset: and to continue down from it, a tube so far into the icesspool below, as to prevent the rising through it of air, and consequently of smell, llf all the waste water of the house is poured into the basin, neither that nor the tube will i3ver be choked up ; in which case, this construction may be considered one of the best I'lfor preventing smell. Another mode is to have no basin ; but to take care that the >surface of the cesspool exposed to the air is no larger than necessary: and that the seat k)e secui-e and free from crevices. It is best to have, besides the usual circular cover, aanother square large cover, such as is used in waterclosefs. 267. An ingenious contrivance was invented by Mr. Strutt of Derby, and employed in the [Derbyshire infirmary, by which the air in the place was changed by the motion of the liioor, which at the same time disengaged the water for the closet itself, without any care oDf the person using it. SuBSECT. 17.—Fountains. 268. Fountains, so great a luxury in warm climates, do not appear to be generally wivished for in this country; and they are expensive ornaments, except in remarkable cases, where the supply of water is very easily obtained. The principle upon which the ■iiimplest kind is formed is sufficiently obvious; the height of the source for the water naiust be as great as that to which the fountain is to play. Fountains on a very small wcale, on the principle of that called Hiero's, are sometimes put into conservatories, and sijimilar places, and then are elegant decorations. SuBSECT. 18.—On rendering Houses fire-proof. 269. To render all dwelling houses fire-proof is obviously desirable ; but although many innventlons have been made with this view, and experiments have been made sufficient to sbhow that it is quite practicable, yet none of the methods have been found so free from rbbjections of some kind, either on account of the expense, or from some other cause, as tito be brought into general use. The chief means proposed have been iron roofs, floors 'supported by iron or flat brick arches, plaster, or what is called pugging under the Mooring boards, stone or iron staircases, brick or at least brick-nogged partitions, metal washes, iron plating round all timbers : in short, using metal, or brick and slate, wherever itit is possible, instead of wood. By taking advantage of these, any house may be rendered liRre-proof in building, although the expense will be somewhat increased ; and, considering ilthat the additional cost need not be very considerable compared with the comfort of ssecurity, it is much to be regretted that in all apartments where valuable property, such aas libraries, museums, or galleries of works of art are deposited, means should not be r'Pesorted to, to render them safe from destruction by fire ; and we add, that it is surprising ilthat the practice of rendering houses fire-proof should not become general. But the iliescription of the details respecting the various methods that would effect this object »would far exceed the limits of this work. The importance of this for a house built in the country must appear so much tlie jrgreater, where that assistance from fire engines cannot be had that towns afford. BOOK II. ON WARMING DOIVIESTIC EDIFICES. CHAP. I. ON HEAT. 270. Introductory Jiemarks'.—The various modes of producing an agreeable temperature in lOur apartments, at all seasons of the year, are important to be understood. Many un- civilised nations, accustomed to a life of hardship, and passing their time chiefly in the open air, are rendered nearly insensible to slight changes in its temperature, and the com- fiforts of domestic life are little known to them. 271. A few centuries ago, the inhahitants of this country, whose time was spent principally iiin war and the chase, appear to have attaclied little importance to their ordinary domestic