Book 1. 34 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. and rainy weather, the top of the new wall should, if possible, be covered with straw or boards. 108. Sound materials sliould be used in the lowest part of the wall; although, from this part being concealed, it is too often the practice to introduce materials of inferior quality. Place bricks should never be permitted, and only the hardest stocks employed : if they should be somewhat overburnt, so as to be in some degree vitrified, and unfit for the upper part of the wall, they may do well in the foundation. When there are piers in the wall 1 ' ■ ' 1 ' 1 ' 1 m- 1' 1 m Fig. 28. which have to support great weights, it may be proper to turn reversed arches, as in fig. 28., to distribute the pressure properly, and prevent settlements. 109. When walls are required to be very strong, it is a good practice to pour some liquid mortar, or grout, on the brickwork at every five or six courses, which will fill the jointf, and set very firm. Also to prevent any damp from rising in the basement story, which, in some situations, is apt to be the case, it is well to lay a couple of courses of bricks in Roman cement, or asphalte, a little above the foundation, as this will prove impenetrable to the wet ; or a row or two of strong slates im- bedded in cement may be laid in the same place. It should be a rule never to be broken, that the earth should not be suffered to lie against any part of the wall of the basement story ; since, if it does, that part of the wall is sure to be always damp within : an area, more or less wide, should be dug out quite round the building. Kitchens are sometimes rendered unhealthy and scarcely habitable, and the whole house aiFected by damp and bad air, from neglect of this precaution. 110. The wall over all openings, such as doors and windows, is supported on the inside by lintels of timber ; but on the outside by brick arches. These are of various kinds ; a, fig. 29., is a semicircular arch, the strongest of any. b, is a flat segment arch, executed over windows in houses of the most ordinary kind of brickwork, c, is an arch used where great strength is required ; a wooden lintel is put over the open- ing, and a segment arch placed thus to relieve the lintel from the super- incumbent weight, d is the mode of forming the brick arches in houses of the best class : here the lower part of the bricks forms a straight line instead of a curve, and the bricks are cut and rubbed so as to be all of p i the wedge form: these last are termed gauged arches, and require to i I be very well set with a small joint, otherwise the bricks give way and Fig. 29. fall down. ' 111. The stone sills of windows are those pieces at the bottom (a, fig. 30.) which project from the wall about two inches to turn off the rain, and prevent it from running down on the wall. These are always left out ^ ^ until the brickwork has had time to settle completely; for, as the i | i ' ^ ' piers on each side of the window press by their weight more than "t|" y ' V i ' the brickwork immediately under the opening of the window, ' j i , i , i ,' , ' | ' ' if the stone sill were to be put in while the brickwork was in i i -1—i i i i J—l the act of settling, the two ends of the stone would receive more ^'S- ^■ pressure than the middle, and would consequently break. After the wall has completely settled, or, as it is called, " come to its bearing," the stone sills are put into their places. 112. The coping of walls is the course of stone that is put on the top, and it is very im- portant that this should be of a good material. Portland is the best of what is used in London. Yorkshire stone is put in inferior houses. 11.3. With respect to the manner of building walls, in the best houses where the facing is of stone, the latter is squared, liewn, or rubbed, and laid with regular joints. The inside of the wall is sometimes of brick, or rough stone, and the outside casing of smoothed stone, termed ashlar; in this case the ashlar should be well bonded with the backing. Even when the walls are of brick, stone is required for certain parts, as kerbs, steps, landings, columns, string courses, cornices, coping, ballustrades, and paving of halls, &c., though some of these are now executed in Parker's cement. 114. Walls built with stones not hewn, hTO\\g\\i io a smooth face, are called rtibhlc walls; and they may be un-courscd or coursed; and be laid dry, or with raortjir. When