Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. frequently used in such instruments as tlie magic lantern, lucernal and other microscopes, telescopes, &c. 546. We must refer the reader also to works on Optics for a description oftlwse beautiful experiments, by which it has been shown that a beam of the sun's light, though colourless, con- sists of seven different coloured rays, which can be separated from each other, forming what are called the prismatic colours; and it is this separation that gives rise to the vivid colours we see given out by the diamond and by cut glass. 547. Jt has likewise been shown, that the rays of the sun, which produce light arid colour, are distinct from those which produce heat, although they always accompany each other; and here we may point out a remarkable difference between the rays that proceed from the sun, and those which come from a fire. In both there are rays of heat and rays of light, that is, heat-making rays, and light-making rays ; but both these kinds of rays pro- ceeding from the sun pass readily through a pane of glass ; as is evident, because in a green-house we feel the heat as well as see the light of the sun. But with respect to a fire, the light only, and not the heat, or very little of it, passes readily through glass ; the greatest part of the rays of heat are stopped by it; and in consequence, a pane of glass fitted into a frame is sometimes actually employed as a fire-screen. Acquaintance with the above principles we consider necessary, because they are frequently applied in the various modes of lighting apartments. Sect. IIL on tbce nature of flame, as employed for artificial light. 548. In treating of heat and combustion in Book II., we described the chemical nature of flame ; but it will be here necessary to consider it again, with some additional observ- ations relative to its application in affording light. 549. The nature of flame has been matter of wonder in all ages, until modem chemistry explained this once mysterious subject. Flame is now considered to be matter that has been volatilised, or converted into vapour, and rendered luminous by intense heat. Oxygen is necessary for the combustion which is the cause of the heat, and therefore it is required to support flame. 550. All bodies do not become luminous when heated: as, for instance, some of the metals ; but iron becomes incandescent, or red and even white hot, when heated to a cei^tain tem- perature, and various substances require different degrees of heat to render them incan- descent. 551. Common air cannot be rendered luminous by any degree of heat, and is, therefore, incapable of producing flame of itself; neither can oxygen gas. 5.52. Several of the permanent and natural gases, and also the vapours or gaseous states of several bodies, are capable of being rendered incandescent or luminous, when they undergo combustion in contact with oxygen. Pure hydrogen gas, produced from sulphuric acid and zinc, or iron, is extremely inflammable, and bums with a lecak blue flame when set on fire by another flame, or even by the electric spark ; but though the heat of its flame is considerable, its light is feeble. We explained, when treating of heat and combustion, that the latter effect consisted in the union of the combustible body with oxyge^i. When hydrogen burns, it unites with the oxygen of the atmosphere, and the result of this union is the formation of water, which is known to consist of hydi'ogen and oxj'gen, and which is converted into vapour, and dissolved in the air as soon as it is formed ; the flame being the incandescent state of the gas in the act of combining. Carbonated hydrogen, or hydrogen with carbon, which is disengaged from coal or wood by heat, also bums in con- tact with oxygen; but its combustion affords a whiter and brighter flame than pure hydrogen, that is to say, when rendered incandescent, it throws out more light: and hence it is preferred for the purposes of artificial illumination. Carbonated h) drogen affords more light in proportion to the quantity of carbon it contains: and the carbon is a principal source of the light given by its flame. The vapours of some substances are not combustible, and cannot be rendered luminous; in other words, they produce no flame: as, for instance, steam, the vapour or gaseous state of water. On the contrary, the vapours of other substances are highly inflammable, and, as we have said above, burn with a bright light or flame : for instance, wax ; but it is necessary that these vapours should be heated to a great degree before they will bum or produce flame by combining with oxygen. This may be illustrated in the following manner : — Put a bit of wax into a fire-shovel heated a little: it will melt ; but wax merely melted will not flame, as may be seen by trying to light it by a piece of lighted paper. To make wax produce flame, it must be heated so as to cause it to boil, and then its vapour is highly inflammable. To prove this, heat the shovel red hot; now put some wax on it, and a white smoke will rise, which is tlie vapour from the boiling wax. Hold a lighted paper in this smoke, and it will immediately catch fire and flame like a candle, and this flame will continue till the