ON THE PRODUCTION OF COLD. •6G9 Chap. VII. hnll. it reouii ed only twenty drops of ether to produce this effect in ten minutes. If a small thin glass tube be filled with water, Lid wet^^ with ether, the water will be converted into ice n> a minute or two, from the rapid evaporation of the ether. 77ic practice of cooling on this principle has been known from time immemorial. It is a common thing in the southern parts of Europe to wrap up a bottle of wme, water, or other liquor required to be cooled, in a wet cloth, and thus to suspend it m a shady place, either under a tree or in a passage, so as to expose it to the briskest current of air that can be obtained; by this means the liquor will be cooled several degrees ; care must be taken to sprinkle more water upon the cloth which siu-rounds the bottle m proportion as the former evaporates. In India it is the general custom, in order to keep the wine cool, to clothe the bottles in wetted cloths fancifully ornamented with flowers, and to cause them to make the circuit of the table in this grotesque dress, instead of pouring the wine into decanters. Port, Claret, and Burgundy are characteristically attired in crunson with white flowers; while sherry and JVIiideira appear in bridal costumes. It is upon this principle, namely, the cold produced by evaporation, that persons sustain much injury by sitting in wet clothes. . ~ . „ 3778. Vessels called Alcarrazas are much employed m Spam for cooling water, and there is scarcely a house in that country where they are not in constant use. What dis- tinguishes them from other kinds of earthenware is their porosity, which is so consider- able, that being filled with water the liquid oozes slowly through, and stands in minute drops, like dew, on the outside ; this evaporates and produces cold, particularly when the air is warm, or when there is some wind. This loss of heat from the outside is supplied from the water within the vessel, and the continued evaporation produces more and more cold ; and the agreeable coolness thus given to water in a warm climate is extremely grateful. These vessels appear to have been introduced into Spain by the Saracens, and their use has since been extended to all the Spanish colonies in America and India. Vessels of a similar kind have, however, been known from time immemorial in China, Ilindostan, Persia, Arabia, Egypt, and Syria. The most celebrated manufactory of this kind in Spain is at Anduxar in Andalusia, the best earth for the purpose being found on the banks of the river Tamusoro. After being well tempered, it is mixed with a little salt, and the heat in baking is not so great as to render the salt insoluble in water ; the salt being dissolved out produces the neces- sary porosity in the vessels. In the neighbourhood of the convents of Vittoria near Malaga the country people fiud a useful clay, of which they make the large red jars called beccaras, used for cooling water, though inferior to the alcarrazas. ^^'ithout these contrivances the inhabitants of these sultry shores would be deprived of one of their most essential luxuries. The dryness of the air in these climates, and particularly in Italy and Egypt, causes it to absorb moisture rapidly, and hence assists the refrigeration ; but the same vessels having been brought over to this country have been found to cool the contained liquor only in a very trifling degree, owing to the state of the air in Britain, which is much less hot, and much less dry, than in the above-mentioned places, therefore much less apt to promote evaporation. One of the Egyptian vessels was tried in London at a time when the temperature of the atmosphere was at a mean; and after about half an hour, when almost three-quarters of the water had passed through it, and had dropped down, the remaining quantity was found barely 3° colder than the surrounding air. 3779. Coolers of earthenware of a similar kind for wine or butter are manufactured in Eng- land, and are at present to be found in many of the earthenware shops in London. They are made of a light-coloured porous ware, and of elegant forms, with ornaments in bas- relief. Half an hour before they are to be used, they are put to soak in cold water, of which they will imbibe a considerable quantity. When wanted for use they are taken out of the water, and the decanter of wine placed in them. The evaporation from the surface of the cooler, of the water which has been imbibed, abstracts the heat i'rom the air of the interior, and consequently from the wine. The cooling effect, however, not exceeding a few degrees, is seldom sufficient for wine. Some are made double, with a space between, for ice, or ice-water. When these coolers want cleaning, a hard brush and a coarse cloth with sand only should be used ; no soap should be employed. 3780. The process of making ice in the East Indies has been particularly described by Sir Robert Barker, Phil. Trans., vol. Ixv. Natural ice is never seen in the warmest parts of that country. To procure ice by artificial means, tlioy dig, on a large open plain, not far from Calcutta, three or four pits, about thirty feet square, and two feet deep each ; the bottoms of which they cover about eight inches or a foot thick with sugar-cane, or the stems of the large Indian corn dried. On this bed are placed, in rows, a number of small, shallow, unglazed, earthen pans, formed of a very porous earth, a quarter of an inch thick, and about an inch and a quarter deep; which, at the dusk of evening, they fill with soft water that had been boiled. In the morning, before sunrise, the ice-makers attend at the pit.s, and collect what was frozen in baskets, which they convey to the place of preserva-