92 Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. fig. 78. boys. The fallacy of their representations having been at last sufficiently demonstrated, and this disgraceful and inhuman practice being now abolished, doubtless for ever, it is not necessary that we should point out all the evils which were consequent upon it, and we shall only refer to those circumstances which are connected with the present practice of sweeping. 398. When the flues are straight, or have few or slight bends, without any of these being at right angles, there is no difficidty whatever in sweeping them with a machine, such as that invented by Mr. Smart, and afterwards im- proved by Glass, bed, Jig. 77. This is composed of a large whalebone brush, of a peculiar construction, and fine cane rods three or four feet in length, attached to the brush. Length after length of the rods are firmly screwed on as the brush is forced up the flue, and unscrewed and laid aside when it is brought down, the flexibity of the cane permitting its easy ascent through the windings of the flue. The brush, o a is made by inserting little bundles of strips of whalebone, in small holes in a wooden stock. These strips are eight inches in length, which makes the brusli, including the stock, twenty inches in diameter, and conse- quently sufficiently large to fill the flues, which are never made in London more than fourteen inches square, and seldom more than fourteen inches by nine. To make it pass more readily up the chimney, a small wheel, b, is fixed to the top of the stock, ef represents the machine in the flue passing the various bends. Some attention by the sweeper is necessary to ascertain when the brush has ac- tually arrived at the top : from neglect of this, some have thrust the rods so far out, that they have fallen down upon the roof; others have damaged the chimney pots, and when these have cowls or other contrivances to prevent smoke in the apartments, the sweeper, by forcing up the machine, has sometimes driven the top o£F. Practice and experience will prevent these accidents. 399. The most difficult flues to sweep are generally those where there is a right angle, as mfig. 78., part of the flue being horizontal: these angles it was almost impossible for the boys to pass, and never without great danger, partly from the difficulty of bending their bodies suf- ficiently, and partly from the accumulation of soot there, owing to its falling down. In these it was necessary to have a soot door, a, made of iron to close tight, through which the horizontal part could be swept. But as this is on other accoimts a bad construction, such flues are now always made with the corners rounded ofi" as at c <f. Also when any difficulties occur, on accoimt of such a bending of the flues as cannot be surmounted by machine sweeping, soot doors are required by the new act of par- liament to be placed in proper parts to introduce the brush through. These soot doors are, of course, best placed on the outside of the house if possible, but sometimes it is ne- cessary to put them on the inside, and even in apartments, in which they may be con- cealed by a picture or frame of some kind. 400. Fig. 79. exhibits the usual manner of bending the flues in the party walls of houses in London, so that sudden turns shall be avoided as much as possible -.efgh are fire-places. The fire-place, h, is supposed to be that of a kitchen under a lead flue at the back of the house, in which case part of the flue is usually horizontal. 401. Otlier methods of cleaning chimneys. — In many parts of Scotland, climbing boys are unknown, and the chimneys are cleaned in the following manner. An iron or leaden ball, or a stone, of a few pounds weight, is fastened to the end of a long rope, and a man, taking this to the top of the chimney, lets the ball drop down the flue, dragging after it the rope. When the ball arrives at the bottom, another man draws the rope a good way down into the apartment, and fastens a bunch of heather to the middle of it; this bunch is then drawn uj) to the top, and the two men alternately pull up and down a little way at a time, until the whole of the flue has been subjected to this operation, by which means the chimney is perfectly cleaned. In that country the flues are usually rather wide, and there are steps by which the tops of the chimneys are easily reached: instead of such a bunch of heather, a round brush might be substituted in smaller flues. 402. The present change in the mode of cleaning chimney flues will no doubt give rise to various improvements in their construction, of which examples may be given in two papers