CUAP. I. 3-11 DUTIES OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. bo"!!!) as well as that of starching and clearing the fine linen. Thursdai/s and Fridays are occupied with nvuv'finK ironin" and getting up the wliolc of the linen. Saturdays, in separating it, according lo the m irlTs affixed to i°t and carrying each division into its appropriate place. The rest of the day is given uii to the cleaning of the laundry, and putting into their places all things connected with the business carried on '"in families consisting of few in number, the laundry maid has often completed her business on Tli iirsday evenings. She is then usually e.\pected to assist the housemaid in repairing the linen either of the house or family. SuBSECT. 8.—Duties of Servants of All Work. 1590. A servant of all work, though considered as holding one of the most humble places, may, if possessed of skill, activity, and integrity, be one of the most valuable of household servants ; the comfort arising from the regular performance of the whole business of the house being solely dependent on her. 1591. Generally, a young girl, on first going into service, commences her career as servant of all work; and, if she happen to fall into the hands of a clever active mistress, she may be regarded as most fortunate ; for, under her direction, she may prepare herself admirably for any other department of service. She cannot be in a better school for her education in household duties and virtues than in a family of orderly and neat habits, in which each day's occupations proceed in a regular and almost undeviating course. But unfor- tunately it is frequently the reverse ; and a girl of unformed habits often finds her first service one of hard, yet irregular, duty. If she entered it possessing any notion of order , and neatness, it is soon lost, and she falls readily into the habits of mismanagement and carelessness of the examples before her, habits which probably will affect her welfare to the end of her days : once contracted they are seldom eradicated. In hiring maid I servants to fill distinct departments in larger establishments, objections are often raised : against those who have only served in the general character of servant of all work, I objections arising from observations on the irregular management of their household I duties, and their deficiency in neatness. It must, however, be remembered, that a good : servant of all work wiU make a good servant in any capacity, and may be taken into any I department, not only without fear of her failure, but with every probability that she will I fill the situation with credit to herself, and with satisfaction to her employer. In some I places, Scotland for instance, a good general servant, as she is called, is much sought after, I and can demand higher wages than those who engage in only one department of service. 1592. Therouline of l/ie duties of the general servant depends chiefly upon the description of place she enters, i Suppose her engagement is to serve a single lady in a small house in a town. Here her work will probably 1 be regular, and not so heavy, but that with industry, activity, and a judicious division of the work, she will I be well able to perlorm it. First she must be an early riser ; before her mistress gets up, her kitchen, parlour, ; and hall, should be properly cleaned (see art. " Cleaning "), and she herself washed and neatly dressed, ready [ to attend on her mistress and to prepare her breakfast, taking her own also about the same time. After I breakfast, and after washing and patting away the broal:fast things, and receiving her mistress's orders for t the day, she should repair to the bed-rooms, and proceed to clean and arrange them, as described above I (see " Housemaid's Duties "). From these employments it is probable that she may be occasionally called away t to answer bells ; and, on such occasions, she should look to her kitchen fire now and then, to keep it in r readiness for the cooking, to which she will, in a sliort time, have to attend. When upstairs work is done, sshe must return to her kitchen, and set about preparing the dinner. In some cases the mistress may, per- hhaps, assist her. It will bean advantage to the servant to have such an assistant and instructress who rmay be clever in the art of cooking. lliOS. A mistress cap.ible of directing the business of the kitchen and house is the best friend a young > servant can have. Before dinner is served she should again wasli her hands and change her apron, making liher dress as seemly as the nature of her employments permit. In a service such as the one now described, 1 the family usually dine first, and the servant afterwards, on the remains of the dinner. As she brings it iifrom table she should put it near the fire to keep it warm, until she has time to sit down to it. If slie does hher duty to her employer she may conscientiously attend to any little circumstances that may promote her ciown comfort. 1.594. Her dinner over, the clearing away, scouring saucepans, washing dishes, with every other necessary lact of cleanliness, will occupy some part of the afternoon, in the course of which she must find time to make jup the kitchen fire, set on the tea-kettle, and sweep up the kitchen hearth. Her work completed, she again •washes herself and changes her dress J she is then ready to wait upon her mistress at tea, and to attend in iany other way to her comfort 1595. The evening is occupied with closing doors and windows, and arranging the bed-rooms for the might. 169G. Besides the daily routine, she ynust contrive to bring into each day some portion of the weekly cleaning. IHer liitchen should be scoured twice a week, on Wednesday and Saturday ; the parlour swept every other nmorning; the hall washed; bed-rooms swept, and carpets taken up and shaken on Tuesday and Friday ; fnlale cleaned on Wednesday and Saljcrday ; block tin kitchen utensils, phited candlesticks, and brass work 'on Thursday (see " Cleaning"). Once a fortnight, or once in three weeks, the floors of bed-rooms should t^e scoured (see " Scouring"), marks on painted wainscots wjished ofT, windows cleaned, &c. l.W. If the washing be done in the house, the above routine will be occasionally broken into for a few lidays, though probably she will be allowed some assistance at tlie wash-tub, and will lind her mistress ready too t,ike on herself some portion of the lighter business of starching and getting un the fine linen. 1.598. Although a multiplicity of occupations .-ippear to claim her attention ana time even in the sm.ille8t 'lamilies, yet, by a judicious division of her duties, and by activity and diligence, she will find them .ill under soer command, so as to get through them without any inconvenient pressure. In the .-ippropriation of her occupations to time, and In the steady regular performance of the same, consists the good management of the i<-erva7U of all work. Z 3