Book II. 90 ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. called its skeleton, is deprived, by having been burnt, of all but its carbon, which still remains in its original position. Numerous pores may be seen disposed in order, and traversing the branch lengthways, which are the vessels of the plant; so that there is no piece of charcoal but might be blown through. This may be best seen by brealting oS a piece short. In a piece the eighteenth part of an inch thick, Dr. Hooke reckoned 150 pores ; whence he concludes that in a piece of charcoal of an inch in diameter, there are no less than 5,724,000 pores, which agrees with what is known respecting the amazing minuteness of the tubes of which plants consist. 417. Although the charcoal remains after the rest of tJie wood is consumed by combustion, it is itself, as is well known, a combustible body; and the reason why it does not disappear like the rest of the wood when burned, is that carbon is less combustible than hydrogen, and that in the process of carbonising, time was not allowed for the combustion of the carbon, nor a sutTiciency of atmospheric air, the fire being checked and smothered just in time to prevent its destruction. If, however, this charcoal, so preserved, be again ex- posed to the action of fire, with free access of air, it will burn, that is, it will unite with the oxygen of the atmosphere, giving out heat, and forming a gas, which is the carbonic acid gas, or the ordinary vapour of charcoal, the suffocating properties of which are so dangerous. It must not be supposed, however, that charcoal consists of pure carbon ; for it retains a small quantity of some other principles in the wood that were not capable of being volatilised, and those appear in the ashes of charcoal when it is burned. 418; The ashes of charcoal consist of several of the earths, as clay, sdex, and lime, together with some alkali or potash : sometimes even a minute portion of iron is found. The ashes of charcoal, or of wood, for it is the same thing, are much esteemed by agri- culturists as a manure for land, as also for washing and scouring, and from them potash is obtained. (See Book XII., " On the Laundry.") 419. In the combustion of charcoal, no flame can appear, for the flame of burning wood arises, as we have shown, from the hydrogen of the vegetable ; but as that has been dis- sipated by the first combustion, no more remains in the charcoal to cause flame. Whether the blackness of charcoal is the natural hue of the element, cai'bon, is uncer- tain, for absolutely pure carbon is unknown to us in a detached state, except it be, as is supposed, crystallised in the diamond. 420. Thecommon processpf making charcoal i?i thiscountryis as follows:—Men accustomed to the business cut and cord the wood in winter ; charcoal-burning takes place during the summer months, and is for the most part carried on in the woods, to save the expense of carriage. After it has been felled, the timber is cut into billets, and when it is become suf- ficiently dry, the process of converting it into charcoal is begun by raising a plot of ground a little higher than the surrounding surface, and bringing it to a slightly convex form by beating it: thus a hard, dry, and solid floor is formed. In the centre of this area is placed a circle of sticks, adjoining each other, and composing a vertical hollow cylinder from three to four inches in diameter, and about six feet high. Round this interior cylinder are ranged successive circles formed by pieces from one to ten inches in diameter: several flues are formed through the pile, and the whole is so contracted, that it kindles in a short time, and burns very equally. The outermost circle is composed of brushwood and chips. WTien the pjTamidal pile measures from twenty to thirty feet in diameter, it is sufficiently large. It would burn out, when kindled, into a vast blaze, and be quickly consumed to ashes, but that a coating is now laid on of turf, the grassy side being next to the wood ; and dry earth is heaped up round the bottom of the pile, and well rammed, in order to prevent the admission of air. Three or four screens, formed of large hurdles well stufied with brushwood, are also pre- pared, in order to protect the pile from the violence of the wind. All the preparations being now completed, the pile is kindled by dropping lighted chips down the hollow cylinder in the centre, which, in proportion as they are consumed, are supplied by others during the first three or four days, at the end of which period, the kindling of the pile is completed. The top of the cylinder is now closed, and a row of holes, each about two inches in diameter, is pierced at the base of the pile, by which the requisite quantity of air is supplied, and a passage is afibrded for the smoke and vapour. Whenever the white watery smoke is succeeded by thin bhie and transparent smoke, which may take place in about a fortnight, it is reckoned that all the watery and volatile part is dissipated, and that the burning of the coaly matter is commencing : therefore the fire must be stopped. The holes are now all closed in succession, and the pile is covered over with earth as accurately as possible, till the fire is completely extinguished, going out for want of air. The pile is now allowed to cool, which requires many days ; for charcoal being a very bad conductor of heat, the pile remains long red hot in the centre, and if opened in this state, will immediately burn with fury. 421. In France they use a great deal of charcoal for many purposes, particularly in their kitchens. ' In the forest of Benon, near Rochelle, great attention is paid to the manufacture