ON MAKING BREAD. 736 Book IX. called " Lammas wheat," is by far the most general and valu- able in England, being the most productive; but it is liable to fail in cold springs. The spikes or ears of this wheat are long, are without awns, or at most have very short ones; and they are disposed in four rows, being laid over each other like the tiles in a house. Of this variety there are two sorts, the white and the red ; the first is the most hardy, but the latter is said to produce the best flour. •2. Spring wheat(b, fig. 610.), (Triticumastivum, Linn.), called also " Summer wheat," is easily distinguished from the last, be- cause it has a beard or awns, like barley. It is sown in the end of April or the beginning of May, and ripens in autumn, gene- rally a fortnight before the winter wheat. The grain is smaller than that of winter wheat, and it does not yield so much flour; but though somewhat less productive, it affords greater security against unfavourable seasons, and grows rapidly. It is chiefly cultivated in Lincolnshire. Its straw is very fine, though short, and is much used for straw plait. 4193. Other varieties of wheat not usually cultivated in England are, Polish wheat, cultivated in Poland; Spelt wheat, probably the Triticum of the Romans, the Zea of the Greeks, the Epautre of the French and the south of Europe. Victoria wheat is a species of bearded wheat, which had been observed by Humboldt at the village of Victoria, in the province of Caraccas; this was very productive, and ripened in seventy or seventy-five days from the time of sowing, consequently affording several crops in a year. Some of the seeds have been sent over to this country by Sir R. K. Porter, and distributed to various individuals. Sanguine hopes have been entertained of its success even in this climate, but there is not yet time to decide upon its merits. It is found to ripen about a fortnight sooner than the common wheat, which is a circumstance of importance in the northern districts ; and it is thought that in the south of England it may give two crops in the year. Nepaul wheat, a species of wheat which has been lately introduced, brought from Nepaul, in India : it ripens in a very short time, and afi'ords great produce. Talavera wheat was brought fi'om Spain, and is occasionally cultivated in the light soils of Norfolk. Botanists, in general, look upon all the cultivated wheats as mere varieties produced by peculiarities in the soil and climate, and that they mostly form hybrids when mixed in the sowing. They have been also divided into the hard and soft wheats. The hard wheats are the produce of warm climates, such as Italy, Sicily and Barbary : the wheat of Poland likewise belongs to them. The soft wheats grow in the northern parts of Europe, as in Belgium, England, Denmark, and Sweden. The hard wheats have a compact seed, nearly transparent, which, when beaten through, breaks short, and shows a very white flour within. The hard wheats contain more gluten than the soft varieties, which renders them fitter for bread and pastry. The soft wheats, those usually cultivated in Britain, have an opaque coat or skin, wluch, when first reaped, give way readily to the pressure of the finger and thumb : these require to be well dried and hardened before they can be conveniently ground into flour. The soft wheats contain most starch, which fits them best for the vinous fermentation, in brewing and distilling. 4194. Wheat grown in different countries varies considerably. The climate of the northern parts of Europe is not favourable to its cultivation. This grain has, however, been slowly making its way in this part of the world : but in Sweden to this day, nothing is met with usually except rye cakes, almost as hard as flint, as they bake only twice a year. Wheaten rolls may be seen occasionally in some of the towns, but never loaves. In 1812, a baker in Gottenburgh received an order from the captain of a vessel to bake wheaten bread to the value of 1?.; but the baker, alarmed at the risk, required security for payment, since, had the bread been left upon his hands, he could not have disposed of so large a quantity in that town, notwithstanding it had a population of 23,000 inhabitants. The wheat of Essex and Kent bears a higher price than that of East Lothian and Berwickshire. The general quality of Irish wheat is about sixteen per cent., and that of Scotland eight per cent., inferior to that of England. If we except the Russian,^which is inferior, the wheat of the Continent is, in general, superior to English wheat by five per cent.: hence it is said that the London flour is inferior to that«of most large towns on the Continent. 419.5. Large quantities of this grain of a superior quality are imported from Dantzic and other ports in the Baltic. The best is grown in Poland and Pomerania, and is conveyed down by the rivers in large barges and rafts from the interior of the country. The grain is beautifully white, hard, and thin-skinned, and, in consequence of its small quantity of bran, it yields a large proportion of excellent flour. French wheat is, in general, superior to that of England. The Italians have the superiority over the French in their wheaten