(Chap. III. RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOKERY. 929 tind quartered ; put a gallipot in the centre of the dish to form a vacancy for some vanilla cream, afterwards o be added. Lay the rice round the gallipot with a spoon, levelling it with the back of the spoon. Next olace the apples round the rice till they reach the summit. Next put it in the oven, but leave it there only nitilthe syrup of the apples is dried up ; decorate the dish with sweetmeats of greengage, apricot, or cherries, Lind when ready to serve remove the gallipot, and fill the space with vanilla cream—See " Confectionery," for L/anilla cream. 5410. Maccaroni. — This is prepared in various ways: first, by simply simmering the maccaroni in water, in which some pepper and allspice tied up in muslin have been previously Ikjoiled together, with a piece of butter and some salt. When nearly done, pour off the I .iquor, and let it steam by the fire-side. It is usually, when prepared in this manner, kept iaot in a silver saucepan, and served at table when wanted. 5411. Maccaroni another way. — Boil four onces of maccaroni till tender in veal broth ; then drain the broth '• rom it and add two table-spoonfuls of cream, an ounce of fresh butter, and two table-spoonfuls of grated rparmes'an cheese, with some salt and pepper. Mix these well together over the fire for a few minutes ; put II into a dish made hot to receive it; strew equally over it some grated Parmesan cheese, and apply the sala- nnander. SuBSECT. 4 Enlremels of French Pastry. 5412. French puff-paste. — For this a pound of sifted flour will require a pound of boutter. If the weather be warm, the butter must be hardened by standing for some time pon an ice tub, or by putting it into cold salt and water. When hardened, half of it is at (iJrst rubbed in the flour, which is worked into a paste moistened by the i/olk of an egg, aand a tea-spoonful of the white (yolk and white must be previously and separately beaten), lif more moisture be required to make a smooth paste, water must be employed, but in the leeast possible degree. Roll out the paste, and at three separate times roll out and lay on thhe butter in patches. 5413. Paste for stringing tartlets. — This consists in simply adding flour and more water to a puff-paste, and when well kneaded together it wUl become sufiiciently ductile tco be drawn out and twisted at pleasure. 5414. Crisp paste. —This kind is usually preferred for tarts; it is stiffer than puff-paste. It consists of Inalf a pound of butter to a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar sifted, and four eggs well beaten ; fthis is formed into pastry with cold water, and rolled out. 5415. French tourte. — Cover a flat dish, called a tourte pan, with thin pastry, and edge tbhe rim with a layer of puff-paste. Fill the centre with any kind of preserve or sweet- mneat, and ornament it with leaves of puff-paste ; bake it, and serve it cold. 5416. Croquante of paste. — Make the pastry for croquantes of half a poimd of fine flour aand a quarter of a pound of sifted loaf-sugar ; mix these well together with yolks of bbeaten eggs, until of sufficient stiffness. Roll out the paste about the eighth of an inch ('thick, rub over a plain mould with fresh butter, and lay the paste on the outside, of equal tithickness over each part. Pare it neatly round the rim, and ornament it with stars, Itleaves, or sprigs of paste as fancy may suggest. Let these lie till dry ; then in a slack oDven bake the pastry for a few minutes of a light colour. Remove the mould and put tithe croquante over a tourte or small dish of pastry. 5417. VoV-au-vent These .iremade of puff-paste, which is to have additional folding and rolling; by this iprocess It will become very light. Brush them over with yolk of egg after they are in the moulds, and let ^■each contain a piece of crumb of bre.id, which take out when baked, and fill the vacancy with savoury com- rposition or preserved fruit See '* PuflT-Paste," '* English Cookery." When voP-aux-vents are used for esntrees they must be filled with ragouts either of meat or fish; if for entremets, with vegetables, sweet- Rtneats, or souffles. 5418. Pate d Amandes Blanch and beat to a smooth paste a pound of sweet almonds, with a quarter of a r-pound of butter. While pounding them add from time to time a drop of water and a drop of white of egg alter- rnately, which last may be dropped through a small puncture made at the end of an egg. Add also a little ' iemon-juice to whiten the almonds. When reduced to a paste, put in three quarters of a pound of sifted iugar ; take the paste out of the mortar, and put it into a tin saucepan, or a sweetmeat pan of bell-metal, over a slow fire ; sllr it and stir it till it no longer sticks to the spoon. Strew the table with sifted sugar, umd roll out the paste on it; wrap it in white paper, and keep it ibr use. 5419. Tartelettes a la Chantilly. —Take almond paste, strew the table with fine sifted ssugar and roll it out, using sugar instead of flour. The paste for the bottom of tartlets nmnst be no thicker than a sheet of paper. Cut them the proper size for petit pdt^s. MVIake the bands of the same paste three quarters of an inch broad and high. M'^et the ' edges of the tartlets with white of egg a little beaten, and fix on the bands in the form of -•goblets, and so neatly as not to show the joining. Put them on white paper, and dry i!them in an airy place. Afterwards put them only at the mouth of the oven, to dry more •land yet to receive no colour ; fill them with whipt cream, or, in summer, with strawberries. 5420. Mirletons de Rouen. — Roll out half a pound of puff" paste as thin as a shilling, •cut it in forms and put it into little pans. Work together in a basin a quarter of a pound of fine sugar with an egg. Add to this a little melted butter, some orange-flower water land another egg worked in ; fill the moulds, sift sugar on the surface, and bake them slowly. Place them in a pyramidal form on a dish, and serve as o small entremet. 5421. namequins. — Ramequlns are considered as entremets of pastry. There are two ways of m.iklng ■'them ; the first consists in rolling out a quantity of pufi-p.istc, and sprinkling over it some grated Parmesan Uchcese; then In folding it up and rolling it out again, and ag.iln sprinkling It over with tho checso. Thcso 3 O