988 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVIL silks and fancy goods. In the manufacturing texture we equal, if not excel, the French, on account of the superiority of our machinery, but they surpass us in the taste of the patterns of such silks as are figured, which is probably owing mainly to the care which the French government has taken in establishing schools of design. The looms at Lyons for weaving fancy goods have greatly increased in number, while those for plain goods have as much decreased. In plain silks we now equal the French. As good Gros de Naples can be bought in Manchester as in Lyons, and as cheap. .5811. Raw silk of its own growth is not allowed to be exported from France, and as some of the Italian states likewise prohibit the exportation of their raw silk, the greater part of what we receive through France is said to be smuggled from Italy ; the latter country also supplies to France the greatest part of the organzine silk used there, the Italian being superior to the French. 5812. The superiority of the French silk-weavers in point of design may be accounted for, if the following relation, given by Dr. Ure in his " Philosophy of Manufactures," be not too highly coloured. " Among the weavers of the place, the children, and everybody connected with devising patterns, much attention is devoted to every thing any way connected with the beautiful, eitlier in figure or colour. Weavers may be seen, in their holiday leisure, gathering flowers, and grouping them in the must engaging combina- tions. Tliey are continually suggesting new designs to their employers, and are thus tlie fruitful source of elegant patterns. There is hardly any considerable house in Lyons in which there is not a partner who owes his place in it to his success as an .artist. The town of Lyons is so conscious of the value of such studies, that it contributes 20,000 francs per annum to the government establishment of the school of arts, which lakes charge of every youth who shows an aptitude for drawing or imitative design of any kind, applicable to manu- factures. Hence all the eminent painters, sculptors, and even botanists and florists of Lyons, become eventu- ally associated with the staple trade, and devote to it their happiest conceptions. In the priucipal school, that of St. Peter's, there are about one hundred and eighty students, every one of whom receives from the town a gratuitous education in art for five years, comprehending delineations in anatomy, botany, architecture, and loom-pattern drawing. A botanical garden is attached to the school. The government allows 3100 francs a-year to the school of Lyons. The school supplies the scholars with every thing but the materials, and allows them to reap the benefit of their works. Their professor of painting is a man of distinguished talents, well known to connoisseurs. " The French manufacturer justly considers that his pattern is the principal element of his success in trade ; for the mere handiwork of weaving is a simple affair, with the improved Jacquard loom. He therefore visits the school, and picks out the boy who promises, by taste and invention, to suit his purpose the best. He in- vites him to his home, boards him, and gives him a small salary, to be gradually advanced. One gentleman told Or. Bowring that he had three such youths in his employment, to the youngest of whom he gave 1000 francs, or 401. per annum. After three or four years, if the young artist's success be remarkable, he may have his salary raised to double or treble that sum ; and when his reputation is once established, he is sure of the offer of a partnership. Such is the general history of many of the school-boys of Lyons. Even the French weaver, who earns onlv fifteen or twenty-pence a d.ay, prides himself upon his knowledge of design ; he will turn over several hundred patterns in his possession, and descant on their several merits, seldom erring far in predicting the success of any new style. By this disposition, the minds of the silk-weavers in France be- come elevated and refined, instead of being stultified in gin-shops, as those of England too frequently are. In flower patterns the French designs are remarkably free from incongruities, being copied from nature with scientific precision." — " There are also weaving schools, containing from sixty to eighty scholars. In these, a pattern being exhibited, they are required to exercise their invention immediately as to the best means of producing tiie design on a piece of silk goods. The master removes such difiiculties as are occasionally encountered, and leads them to the successful accomplishment of their task." Notwithst.inding this agreeable picture, the author just quoted admits that the silk trade of Lyons is ex- tremely fluctuating, being one of orders and not of stocks ; and that unpleasant differences frequently take place between the master manufacturers and the workmen from the " mania for creating new designs," which proves a serious inconvenience to both masters and men. " In consequence of the low wages and great ex- pense of living at Lyons, many of the weavers betake themselves to arms, and abandon a trade which gives them no prospect of improvement. It appe.irs that there h.is been a constant depreciation of the wages of silk-weaving in France, from the year 1810 down to the present time. The average expense of changing each pattern loom is twenty-flve fr.incs, and in general it falls chiefly on the weaver, rendering him often the victim of ignorance of the state of trade, and of want of taste in the manufacturer " Simond, who visited Lyons in 1817, has described the poverty of the silk-weavers resident in and near that city as being more abject than any thing within the experience of our own artisans. There, as with us, the manufacture is, in a great degree, domestic, most of the weavers executing their labour in their own dwellings. The abodes of the French weavers are, however, wretched in the extreme ; one room, twenty feet square, not uufrequently serving every purpose, both as a dwelling and workshop, for three entire families. ."iSlS. Much silk is produced in Sicify, but scarcely any of it comes to England. Turkey supplies us with a considerable quantity of raw silk, chiefly Persian, from the borders of the Caspian ; this comes by the way of Smyrna. Silk is extensively manufactured in Switzerland. Velvets are made in Prussia, and even Russia is beginning to weave silk. Of late a good deal of raw silk has been imported from Bengal, and this has been regii- larly improving in quality, so as at present nearly to equal that from Italy. In India, instead of having one annual crop, as in Europe, there are no less than three. From some specimens of American silk lately sent over to this country, there appears to be some reason for supposing that, before long, this material may be produced to a considerable extent in that country. The silkworm and the white mulberry-tree thrive in all the states of the Union. Sect. VII. DESCniPTION OF THE VAUIOUS SILK FABniCS. .5814. General remarks. Manufacturers distingiiish many himdred varieties of silk fabrics made at home and abroad, and even those made in this country are extremely numerous. Silk being an animal substance, it is capable of readily receiving every possible tinge of