Chap. TI. 1145 MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. slippery. The horses are next to be dressed, and if tlie weather at all permits this should not he done in the stall, but in a sheltered place in the yard. 6800. What is called dressing the horse is keeping the hair and skin in order by the use of the curry-comb, brush, and duster. The grooming or dressing a horse can never be learned by oral instruction, and skill must be acquired by imitation of an experienced person : nevertheless the proprietors of horses should be acquainted with the principal points to be attended to, and it is these we propose to mention. Good rubbing not only clears off the loose dirt, but improves the circulation of the blood. The farmer's horse, that is worked all day and turned out at night, requires little ny)re to be done to him than to have the dirt brushed off his limbs. With the stable horse the case is dif- ferent. 6801. Currying causes the blood to circulate, opens the pores of the skin, and removes the scurf that accumulates, and stops the insensible perspiration. The curry-comb separ- ates and raises the matted hairs, and removes the hardened mud. Notwithstanding these uses, some consider the action of a good brush as producing a more beneficial influence upon the skin and hair, and certainly some grooms use the curry-comb with unnecessary harshness, the horse being seen sometimes to tremble with the pain. After currying the horse should be well rubbed to take off all loose hairs, and then with wet hands till his coat shine like satin. The mane, foretop, and tail are next combed, and if the legs and feet are stained they are washed with soap and water, and trimmed with the scissors. Cleaning the carriage has been already described. G802. Before the horses are put to the carriage the brush and a cloth are to be passed over their coats to remove any dust; the wet sponge should be applied to the eyes, nostrils, and rump, and the comb put through the mane and tail. The shoes ought to be examined, the harness then put on. and the horses attached to the carriage. 6803. fVhile the carriage is out tlie stable boy cleans out the stable thoroughly; in a dirty stable myriads of insects are bred, which are very annoying to the horses. 6801. On those days when the carriage is nut going out the horses should be exercised for a couple of hours every day. At noon tlie horses are ted and watered, again sometimes at four o'clock, and at egiht in the evening a little hay is put into the rack for the night. When horses are much confined to the stable, their hoofs are apt to become dry and crack; to prevent this, it is necessary to stop their feet occasionally during the night with some moist substance, such as a mixture of cow-dung with some loamy earth. 6805. Wlien the carriage returns home they should not be fed immediately if their work has been fatiguing. They should wait until they are cool. If fed too soon, particularly if they have fasted too long, it may produce indigestion. In such case it is proper that they be first rubbed down and dressed. If they are heated, the water used to wash their legs should be lukewarm, and they should be walked about until the pulse is lowered before being put into the stable. It is desirable that they should never be kept too long without food, since this may cause debUity, and they then, perhaps, eat voraciously or refuse to eat. Sect. VI. HORSE-SHOEING. 6806. JVo part of the horse is of more importance to be attended to by the owner as well as the traveller than his feet, together with the shoes for their defence, and we select this portion of the subject for a more particular detail. Before paved and hard roads were made, probably no defences were contrived for the feet of the horse, and the first that were made use of appear to have been copied from those of his master; a sort of sandals are mentioned as occasionally employed by the ancient Greeks and by the Romans as late as Constantine, and these were stiffened by plates of iron, and sometimes ornamented with the precious metals. The injurious effects of fastening with thongs has given place in modem times to the present method of nailing on iron shoes; and Beckman states that the first account of the modern horse-shoe occurs in enumerating the furniture of the Emperor Loo of Constantinople, but it was not until long afterwards that their use became general, and it was first introduced into England by William of Normandy. The art of farriery advanced at length into much consideration, and has made at least as much progress in this country as in any other. 6807. To understand the principles of horse-shoeing and to be able to reaSbn correctly respecting it, it is essential that we should be acquainted with the outlines at least of the anatomy of the horse's foot. We shall therefore premise what we have to say on this subject by pointing out the chief anatomical parts. 6808. Fig. 895. represents the anatomy of the foot in a section, a is the lower part of the shank bone (see the skeleton, /(>/. 89.'3.); b is the greater pastern bone; c the lesser pastern bone, or coronary bone; d the coffin hone or bone of the foot; c is an elastic process or coronary ring of the crust; / is the ciust or outer wall of the foot or hoof; g the navi- rulai or nut bone.; h the back sinew or great flexor tendon of the foot, binding over the navicular bone, and terminating in the coffin bone; i the sensible frog, covering the end