990 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVIL appear one entire brilliant plate of gold or silver. At Nuremberg, a kind of thread for brocade was made by spinning gilt copper wire on threads of flax. 5818. Satm is a glossy silk twill of peculiar description, the soft and lustrous face of •which is given by keeping a large proportion, frequently even as much as seven out of every eight threads of the warp, visible. In the manufacture of other silken stuffs, each half of the warp is raised alternately ; but in weaving satin, the workman only raises the fifth or the eiglith part of the warp, which presenting an even, close, and smooth surface, is capable of reflecting the rays of light very entire, and the fabric thus acquires that lustre and brilliancy for which it is so much distinguished; but this is assisted by another process. When first taken out of the loom, satins are somewhat flossy or rough, and they are dressed by being rolled on heated cylinders, which smoothes down the face and imparts to them their brilliant lustre. Satin is always woven with the face downwards, the labour of the weaver being thereby abridged, as it is easier to raise the harness with one-eighth of every cart, than it would be to raise seven-eighths. Satin exhibits, in the highest degree, the beautiful lustre of the material of which it is made ; no other article of dress has the same beauty in its shadows and reflected lights; hence it has always been a great favourite with the painter, though difiicult to represent. Some satins are quite plain, others are figured, and the latter are often of exquisite beauty. Some of the best description are made in Spitalfields. The Chinese are very fond of satins, and some of their make are brought to this country ; they are inferior to those made in Europe, but possess the property of being easily cleaned and bleached; they are sometimes flowered with gold and silver. The Chinese excel in the production of flowered satins, as well as damasks. 5819. Silk fabrics are sometimes woven quite smooth and plain, as Lutestring, Gros-de- Naples, Persian, Ducape, Levantine, Sarsenet, &c., which differ from each other only in their thickness, or the quality of the silk. 5820. Lutestring is a plain stout silk, much used for ladies' dresses. There are many qualities and colours. 5821. Gros-de-Naples, is the French name of silk, and means literally "thick" or " stout" of Naples ; it is very similar to the last, but not so stout, and was formerly im- ported, but is now made plentifully in Spitalfields; it is plain and figured. 5822. Persian is a very thin plain silk, the width about half a yard, used for the lining of bonnets, pelisses, cloaks, &c.; it is of all colours. 5823. Sarsenet is somewhat thicker, and made twilled as well as plain ; it is used for the same purpose as the last, but sometimes also for dresses. 5824. Taffetij, under which term the French manufacturers include lutestring, is a smooth silken stuff, having usually a remarkably wavy lustre, imparted by pressure and heat, with the application of an acidulous fluid to produce the effect called watermg. There are tafifeties of all colours, some plain, others striped with gold, silver, silk, &c., others flowered or chequered. The chief consumption of taffety is in summer dresses for bdies, and a particular kind is used for curtains and other drapery. The Chinese manufacture different sorts of taffety, among which is a substantial kind adapted for drawers and other kinds of wearing apparel; it is so thick and pliant, that it may be folded and pressed by the hand without receiving any crease or mark, and will retam much of its lustre after washing. , „ r 5825. Tabby is a coarse kind of taffety watered by pressure between the roUers ot a cylinder, so as to produce the wavy effect already mentioned. 5826. Tabbinet is a variety of the former, more delicate in its texture. 5827. Tabarets, a stout satin-striped silk, used for furniture, as chair-covers, women s 5828. Tobinc is a stout twilled silk, used for dresses : it much resembles the Florentme. 5829. Levantine is a stout rich black silk, twilled and very soft, and used for dresses; its face and back show diff'erent shades. If the face is blue back, the back will be jet black, and vice versa. , ., ^ ,• • r »i„ 5830. Silk serge is a twUled silk used mostly by the tailors for Iming parts of gentle- ™T83r°Parw cord is a thick rich silk with fine small ribs running across. This was first brought from France, and the genuine has the cord all silk. An imitation is made here, and some of this has the cord of cotton. It is much used in making waistcoats and '*°5832. Armozeen is a thick plain silk, seldom any other colour thaii black; it is not much used; sometimes clergymen's gowns are made of it, and it is employed m hat-bands 'IssT^l'St made for waistcoats, and is plain, striped or ribbed, and figured ; when plain it is twilled. It is to be observed, that there is another substance, caUed also Plnrpntinp • made of worsted for common waistcoats. S SMet -This is certainly one of the richest of the silken fabrics, and was b: