430 ON POOD. Boor VI I. S0BSECT. 18.— The litidd (Cijprinus erythropthalmus, I.inn.). 2239. Tliis fish is very common in the Thames and other rivers of England, as well as the rivers of the Continent. It may be often purchased in Hungerford fish market but IS sometimes mistaken for roach, to which it is inferior, the flesh being soft and fu'll of bones. It seldom attains two pounds weight. The roach, bream, and rudd, are much alike. SuBSECT. 19— The Chub {Cyprinus cephalus, Linn.). 2240. This is a river fish of the carp genus, somewhat resembling the tench. They are very common in England and Scotland, and delight in deep holes in ponds and canals, but chiefly in clear and rapid rivers. When full-grown they are from twelve to fifteen inches long, and in weight four or five pounds. When quite in season, and only two or three pounds, they greatly resemble carp, and are usually dressed in the same manner; but they are not very palatable, being watery, tasteless, and bony, and are apt to acquire a yellow colour in boiling ; they are therefore held in little esteem. The best manner of dressing this fish is to stuff and roast or broil it with the scales on, when it is pretty good. It afi'ords good amusement to anglers on the Thames. S0BSECT. 20. — BulVs Head, or Miller's Thumb. 2241. This singularly formed fish is of the gudgeon kind, with the scales extremely small, the head large and flat, and the mouth wide. It seldom exceeds live or six inches in length, and is met witli in almost all shallow rivers, abounding in the New River. Tlie fish is well tasted, and turns red or salmon colour on boiling. SuBSECT. 21.—Loach (Gobitis Barbatula). 2242. The loach is a very small fish, gener,aUy about three inches long, having a round body with six w.ittles, or barbs, at its mouth. It is not very common, but is found in small brooks and rivulets. It is chiefly used as bait for fishing large eels and perch; but is delicious fried in batter, or with eggs and crumbs of bread. SuBSECT^ 22.— The Bleak (^Cyprinus alburnus, Linn.). 2243. This is of the carp genus, and is abundant in most of our rivers, particularly the Thames and Lea. It is in little esteem for the table, being chiefly taken for the sake of its beautiful, silvery scales, which are made use of in the manufacture of artificial pearl; but it is also occasionally substituted for the anchovy, though it has not the same flavour. Its length is about five or six inches; slender in shape, colom- bright silvery, with the back olive green. Its tail is forked, and, from its continual motion, it has been called the river swallow; by some, the fresh-water sprat. 2244. Stickleback.—This very small fish, which is generally under two inches in length, is a frequent inhabitant of rivers, ponds, and marshes, as well as the sea; it receives its name from the sharp spines on its back. It is sometimes very troublesome in fish ponds ■when it gets into them, being extremely pugnacious, and attacking the larger fish. In the fens of Lincolnshire, they are in such quantities as to be taken out in cart loads, and are employed to manure the land. SuBSECT. 23.— The common Eel {Murcena anguilla, Linn.). 2245. This fish is migratory, and inhabits both salt and fresh water; it is accordingly taken in rivers, lakes, and ponds, as also in the sea. In its form it makes a near approach to the reptiles, having no fins except the pectoral. In the water, no fish is more \\xvi- cious, and as it clings to life very tenaciously when out of the water, it may be kept ali\ e for several days in wet sand. It is, however, very sensible of cold, and to avoid this, it buries itself under the mud in the winter. There are no eels in the arctic regions, and none in Siberia. In some parts of Europe, the eel fishery is of surprising magnitude. Dr. Black says, that in some places near the mouth of the Baltic, so great a quantity is taken, that they are salted for exportation, and conveyed by waggons into Saxony, Silesia, &c. Two thousand have been taken in Jutland by a single sweep of the net; and in the river Garonne, sixty thousand have been caught in a day by a single net. Ponds are some- times appropriated in England to the raising of eels ; and large quantities are caught in the Thames and other British rivers. 2246. The consumption of eels in our large cities is considerable. The London market is principally supplied from Holland, by Dutch fishermen. Mr. Yarrell observes, " there are two companies in Holland having five vessels each ; their vessels are built with a •capacious well, in which large quantities of eels are preserved alive till wanted. One or more of these vessels may be constantly seen lying off Billingsgate ; the others go to Holland for fresh supplies, each bringing a cargo of 1.'5,000 to 20,000 pounds weight of