Book XXVI PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1246 body should be brought into the air, and the above-mentioned process must immediately be had recourse to j medical aid, of course, will always be speedily obtained. Sect. VIII. TOnPOR FROM COLD. 7297. When a person has been buried under the snow, has been exposed for some time to weather of great severity,'or has in any way become half frozen and stupified by excess of cold, the great rule is to restore heal as gradually as possibk: thus, in some cases, even friction would communicate heat too soon, so friction with snow is emplo5'ed to ensure a veri/ slow development of heat. The person must not be brought into a room with a fire, but be kept in a very cold room, and covered with very light clothes ; of course, in the majority of cases, it is not necessary to use frictions of snow ; few cases are so severe as to require this. When long-continued friction has partly restored warmth, the individual may be removed to a warmer I'oom, covered with warmer clothes, and the friction made with brandy. When warmth has been still more restored, heat may be more speedily communicated by means of one or two persons getting into bed with the pierson and warming him with their bodies: war^ bottles and cordials must not be used till heat has been restored to a very great degree. The penalties which attend the too rapid production of heat are indeed great; rapid inflammation and mortification of fingers and toes, or even hands, feet, arms and legs, or nose and ears, ensue, and the person rescued from the cold may be killed by an ill-judging zeal. The retreat of the French from Moscow affords striking illustrations of the effect of heat too rapidly applied. These unfortunate men, exposed to a degree of cold to which their campaigns in Italy and in Eg3^pt had little inured them, retreated in weather severe even for that cold latitude ; their legions as they marched left for those who followed, rows and groups of dead and frozen soldiery; those who were fortunate enough to reach the camp-fires at night hastened towards the welcome blaze, and spread out their ha'.f-congealed limbs to the heat; in many cases gangrene followed on the instant, and increased so rapidly that its progress could be traced by the eye, or in other instances a kind of fulness of blood pervaded the lungs and brain; the individuals, perhaps, had scarcely breathed the new atmosphere, when fainting, they staggered back, their limbs swelled enormously, they became devoid of sensibility, and died in two or three hours. Sect. IX. ABSTINENCE FROM FOOD. 7298. Here also the return to a natural state of things must be very gradual; if the abstinence have been of great length, nothing stronger than chicken or veal broth must at first be given, and then by degrees strong beef tea, and after this some light vegetable, or a bread pudding ; animal food must not be given for a long time. Sect. X. ANTIDOTES TO POISONS. 7299. Sulphuric acid, or oil of vitriol. — The children of poor people often accidentally take this acid; it is bought to clean metallic vessels, and children take the half-emptied bottle, standing on the table, and put it to their mouths. The parent is generally at once informed of what has happened; she hears the child cry, and turning round, sees the bottle in its hand, or if she has left the room, she easily perceives what has occurred from the cries of the child, the marks of the acid on its lips, and the emptying of the bottle. Of course a surgeon is at once sent for, but it may be useful to know that magnesia or whiting, or chalk mixed up with water, are the best antidotes: the child should drink a good deal of the mixture. If none of these substances can be procured, a piece of soap may be beaten down in water and given, or even common oil, for this sheathes and some- what protects the stomach from the corrosive effects of the acid. 7,100. Oxalic acid is sometimes taken by mistake for Epsom salts ; the taste is, however, very different, being powerfully acid, and this usually apprises the person of the mistake he is committing, or if, as sometimes occurs, he has swallowed the draught at a gulp without tasting it, he is convinced that something is wrong from the excruciatmg and racking pain which almost immediately follows. The great antidote here also is chalk, which invaluable fact was first proclaimed by Dr. A, T. Thomson. It should be mixed -with a small quantity of water, and taken in considerable quantity. Alkalies and soap are, in this case, improper, but carbonate of magnesia is also an excellent antidote. 7,301 Arsenic is the most common of all poisons ; it produces, some little time after it is taken, feelings of heat and pain at the pit of the stomach, which rapidly become ag""'S'ng : vomiting soon occurs, first of the contents of the stomach, then of mucus, bile, and blood.