926 FRENCH COOKERY. Book XIV. S377. Sauce ti la Ileine for boiled chickens. —Beat in a mortar the white part of a dressed fowl with an ounce and a half of blanched almonds till they form a smooth paste; mix with it a small French roll mois- tened with hall a pint of boiling veal stock or broth and the yolks of two boiled eggs ; stir in sufficient flour to render it of a proper consistence ; and, when seasoned, poor it boiling hot over the chickens, 5,378. Miiilie d'/ioM sauce. —Work over a stove a lump of fresh butter in four spoonfuls of AUemande • chop parsley, and with the juice of a lemon, some pepper and salt put into the sauce. Let this sauce be made thick in general. It i.s easier to thin than to thicken a sauce after it is once made. The flavours often injured by the necessary addition of flour, butter, &c. 6370. Tomato sauce. — Take a dozen of very ripe tomatos; cut off the stalks and take out the seeds • squeeze out the juice from the fruit and put it into a stew-pan with half an ounce of butter, a bay leaf, and a sprig of thyme ; stir altogether over a moderate Are until a puree is formed ; add to it a spoonful of top pot (see Terms), ,and rub it through the tammy; return it to the stew-pan, and add two spoonfuls of Espagnole sauce. Make it of the consistence of a thin gravy ; season with salt and c.-iyenne. 5380. Glaze. — Glaze is an ornament for the surface of some made dishes: it may be formed of the remains of any liquor in -which meat, poultry, or game has been cooked. Let this liquor be strained till perfectly clear, and put over a brisk fire till reduced to the consistency of jelly ; when it begins to stick to the spoon, remove it to a smaller stew- pan, and set it in a bain marie. It will keep some little time, and becomes black and bitter when no longer fit for use. Remember to warm it always in the bain marie, that it may not get too brown or deeply coloured. Sdbsect. 3 Purees. 5381. Soubise or puree of onions.—Take a dozen white onions, peel, wash, and cut them in halves. Mince and blanch them. Put them into a closely covered stew-pan, with a small bit of ham, a little mace, half a bay leaf, and simmer them for one hour. Rub them through the tammy, and add four spoonfuls of bechamelle ; keep it hot, but without boiling. 5382. Puree of celery Wash and string several heads of celery; blanch them, and strain away the water when it becomes cold. Put the celery into a stew-pan with a little consomme and sugar. Stew it for an hour and a half, and reduce till there be no kind of moisture. Mix four spoonfuls of bechamelle or veloute, strain the whole through a tammy, and put it into the bain marie. When ready to serve, add boiling cream to thicken it, and improve the colour. A variety of purees may be made of vegetables ; also of fish and game. Puree of potatoes is merely well mashed potatoes moistened with good broth until the whole is not much thicker than a cream. Instead of broth, cream is sometimes used as the moistening ingredient. Sect. VII. ENTREMETS. ScBSECT. 1. — Omelettes. 5383. Break six eggs into a basiii, at the bottom of which some salt dissolved in a tea- spoonful of water and a little pepper had been previously put. Keep back three of the whites. Omelettes are sometimes tough, from having too much white of egg in them, as well as from being too thin. Beat the eggs thoroughlj-, and pour them into a frying-pan ■with a small quantity of butter. Keep turning the pan contiiiuallj', but never let it be too near the fire. When the sides begin to harden, roll the omelette up before the middle part, which should be kept soft, gets too much fire. Roll it equally with the knife before it is dished ; and in turning it out of the frying-pan, take care not to soil the dish. The general principle of making an omelette being thorouglilj' comprehended, various additions may be made ; thus, you may form an omelette of ham, by mincing some that has been boiled, either with or without herbs. It may likewise be composed of cold fowl minced or beaten in the mortar, properly seasoned, and, to render it more relishing, an anchovy may be pounded with it. A very elegant omelette may be compounded by adding a quantity of scraped Parmesan cheese to the batter. The kidney fat of veal may likewise be employed when finely chopped, and heated in some strong consomme ; this may be put into the middle part of tlie omelette before it is rolled. 5384. Omelette of herbs. — To the mixture of eggs already described add some chopped parsley, and a little eschalot minced very fine, and proceed as above directed. In some instances, sorrel scalded and chopped may be used as a variety. 5385. Omelette sorifjli. — This is a raised omelette, and is made by beating the yolks of six eggs with a little grated lemon-peel, salt, and sugar. The whites are to be sepa- rately beaten till they become an entire froth. These are then to be slightly mixed together; and when the margin has become solid, so as to contain the central part, it is to be put into the oven, that it may rise, which it will do to a considerable height, if suffi- cient heat be applied to the upper part. If you choose, it may be glazed. !i3RG. Omelette so'ifflC- an gateau an rix. — Boil a little rice in milk and water till quite soft. When cool, put in .is much orangc-llowcr water and sugar as may please the taste. Whip the yolks of eight ccgs and mix