I Dhap. II. SUBSTANCES EMPLOYED IN ITS PRODUCTION. K 2 \\fter the ebullition is finished, draw off the oil into a cooler, and allow it to remain at ■i cst for a few days. The quantity of chloride of lime must be varied according to the jutridity of the oil. By this the oil will be deprived of its disagreeable odour. 595. Oil for the purjxise of artificial liyht should be kept from exposure to the dir. Fat - lils may be preserved fresh for a long time in vessels perfectly closed ; but if exposed to hhe air,'they thicken, and at last become rancid, by the formation of a peculiar acid called 'ihe sebacic acid, in which state they are less combustible, and give an offensive smell, rriiis may be removed in a great degree, and the rancidity destroyed, by boiling the oil jvith a little water and a little magnesia for a quarter of an hour to neutralise the acid, 1 The boiling must be continued till the oil will no longer redden litmus paper. SnBSECT. 3. — Vegetable Oils used for Light. 596. On the Continent lamps are chiefly supplied with these ; and since sperm oil has oecome so dear with us, they are much employed here. Some of these are cheaper [than the fish oils, but require the consumption of a greater quantity to give the same light. 597. Olive oil is too costly in Britain to be generally used in lamps ; but in France and Ir.'taly, where it is much cheaper, it is extensively employed in this way. It burns with a ?oeautiful white light equal to wax, is not apt to cloy the wick, and gives no offensive smell tin burning. (See a more particular description of oUve oil in Book VII. " On Food," ^ect. 10. Chap. VII.) 598. Rape oil is made from the seeds of Brassica napus. Linn., chiefly in Flanders. The bil is expressed by a mill constructed on purpose. It has a yellow colour, and a peculiar ■limell. It is much used on the Continent. 599. The oil of tobacco seeds, and of belladonna seeds, are perfectly mild, and are burned nn lamps in Germany, though the oil cakes of both are poisonous. 600. Oil of plum stones is used at Wirtemberg for lamps. 601. Colza oil. In France and the Netherlands they extract from the seeds of a spe- i jies of cabbage, Brassica arvensis oliefera, an oil called colza, which they use in lamps, or i :or the fabrication of soft soap. The seed is beaten out like grain, and the oil is procured t oy pressure; but to prepare it for burning it is purified, or deprived of its mucilage and loolouring matter. To effect this, two parts of concentrated sulphuric acid are mixed with 1100 parts of oil, and well stirred until the acid combines with the mucilage and colouring [imatter, which are gradually precipitated in flakes of a blackish green colour ; after which, i-n order to separate the acid, a quantity of water equal to double that of the oil is added; i! he whole is agitated, and left to settle for ten days, at the end of which time the oil "ivhich is upon the water is decanted into tubs, in the bottom of which are holes filled with f'lotton, through which the oil filters in a purified state. The same method of purification i-s applicable to all oils expressed from seeds. The oil of colza is of a pale yellow colour, Vias very little odour, and an agreeable sweetish taste. It is analogous to rape oil, but ^iiuperior. 602. Cocoa-nut oil. This oil is extracted from the fruit of the Cocos nucifera. When it • vas first imported into this country from America, it was of very limited utility, since it was r iot sufficiently fluid in our climate to burn in lamps, except in those of a particular con- ■itruction. A piece of metal which was heated by the flame communicated with oil, and thus ktept it fluid ; but this was an inelegant contrivance, and the oil did not come much iiinto use. The lamp used for burning is described in Sect. 14. Chap. IV. Lately the discoveries of Chevreuil and Bracconot have been applied to this substance; and it has been '■leparated into its stearine and elaine, the fonner being employed in the manufacture of ;L;andles, while the elaine is used for other purposes. (See " Cocoa-nut Candles.") 603. Palm oil. This is a vegetable oil which is solid in the usual temperature of this r!;limate, and is now extensively imported from Africa, and employed in the manufacture t>f candles and soap. The stately palm tree from which it is obtained, the Cocos buti/racca, j^rows abundantly on the coast of Africa and Brazil. The fruit consists of a thick-shelled ' itone of a dark colour, covered by a succulent pulp, and it grows in clusters at the base »f the leaves. It affords two kinds of oil; one of which is yellow, obtained from the pulp hy expression; the other, a white oil, procured in a similar manner from the kernel con- inained within the stone. It is the yellow oil which has been chiefly brought here. It is Kiad in immense quantities in Guinea and Sierra Leone. In its natural state in that cli- fimate it is always fluid, and the negroes use it to eat with their rice, or to fry fish in ; and t seems to be as important to them as butter to us, or as olive oil in Italy. It melts at '>iAP. The white oil is in smaller quantity, and is always solid, even in Africa. The '.negroes employ it to oil their skins with, and it preserves them nice and soft; while, at the iame time, it prevents too great an excretion of perspirable matter. The kernel of the f 'riiit is of an agi-eeablc flavour when eaten. Slearine is likewise procured from this palm oil for candles by the following process t ■ IThe thick oil, called "butter of i)aiin,"is kept for two hours, with the addition of a little