197 ::hap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. O 3 nn hour, a varnish -will be made, impenetrable to water, but which does not dry completely, i This was tried for making waterproof cloth, but it did not answer well. By means of this uubstance the varnish for balloons is made. 896. It loas afterwards discovered by Mr. James St/me, lecturer on surgery in Edinburgh, Viat real naphtha dissolves it readily, and that it may be recovered from this solution with- isiut loss of its elasticity. Naphtha from coal-tar is equally efficacious ; and as this solvent i i cheap, the solution of caoutchouc is now applied to numerous useful purposes. When octed upon by naphtha, caoutchouc swells to thirty times its bulk, and then, if worked ci'ith a pestle, and pressed through a sieve, it affords a varnish which may be spread upon Uoth by means of a flat edge of metal or wood. Two cloths being thus covered, are put npgether, and passed under a rolling press. The double cloth is then hung up to dry, and 0) get rid of the smell of the naphtha. This is the method of manufacturing the water- irroof cloth now so extensively prepared under the name of Mackintosh, and for which haere was a patent, now expired. Great elasticity is one of the most remarkable properties of India rubber, and a trrip may be drawn out into forty or fifty times its former size, and yet return to its first idmensions. From this property it is employed in many articles of dress, and likewise in -jansferring impressions from copper plates to earthenware. \Vh.en in a softened state, it aan be rolled or pressed into sheets thinner than bladder, which are now employed in .larious manufactures. Such is its power of distension, that a small piece the size of a jalnut, when softened by boiling for an hour or two in water, can be blown out into a aoll fifty inches in diameter ; and in this way are made the balloons sold at present as nys. Caoutchouc tubes for various purposes are now made, which combine perfect esxibility with impermeability to air. These are extremely useful for surgical and ihher purposes. Another useful application of this material is in Brockenden's stoppers inr bottles or decanters. These consist of some substance made to the shape of a stopper, Qad covered with a piece of sheet India rubber, which, by its elasticity, closes the aperture laore effectually than any other method. (See farther, " Elastic Fabrics, and Waterproof :aoth," Chap. VIIL Book XVIL) •897. A new liquid has been prepared from caoutchouc, called caoutchoucine, which has angular and useful properties. It is a solvent of all resins, particularly copal, which it i^ssolves without heat, at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, a property pos- rvssed by no other solvent known ; and hence it is peculiarly useful for making varnishes 1 general. It also mixes readily with oils, and will be found to be a valuable and cheap i-enstruum for liquefying oil paints; and without in the slightest degree affecting the most -jlicate colours, will, from its ready evaporation, cause the paint to dry almost instantly. ■ ocoa-nut oil, at the common temperature of the atmosphere, always assumes a concrete crm ; but a portion of this caoutchoucine mixed with it will cause the oil to become fluid, 3(id to retain sufficient fluidity to burn in a common lamp with extraordinary brilliancy. is to be observed, however, that this last property is rather curious than useful, as its [jpense is too great for such application. Caoutchoucine is extremely volatile, has less leecific gravity than ether, or any other known liquid ; yet its vapour is so heavy, that I may be poured, without the liquor, from one vessel into another like water. We iQOuld notice, that its volatility and the inflammability of its vapour is so great, that care would be taken not to bring a lighted candle near to it when the vessel is opened which nntains it. It is procured by cutting caoutchouc into pieces, putting them into a still, to hhich the heat of 600° is applied. The caoutchouc melts and rises in vapour, which, jjing condensed by a worm in the usual way, affords the caoutchoucine. Sect. XVI. METALS. StTBSECT. 1. — General Observations. ■898. The metals are all simple substances; that is, not compounded of others; but each ;::ists in itself as a separate or unalterable body, apparent alterations consisting always, lit in that of the metal itself, but in the addition of some other substance, by which the ppearance and properties of the metal are changed. What is called the rusting or rnishing of a metal, which is one of the most common changes it is subject to, consists t the addition of oxygen to the metal, the new compound being termed an oxide in some -ses, which is only another word for rust, in common language. Most metals are subject I this change ; but a few, as silver, platinum, and gold, are not liable to rust, and have, erefore, a peculiar value in making coin and plate. There are, in all, forty-one metals <8tinct from each other ; but some of these are extremely rare, being scarcely applied to ivy use ; others are seldom or never employed alone, but only in combination. It will