734 ON MAKING BREAD. Boon IX sometimes used as food, and which, by proper management, can likewise be converted into bread. 4182. Among the farinaceous vegetables, by far the viost important are the seeds of the Cereaha or corn plants, which belong to the natural order of Gramina or grasses in botanical systems. Next to the Cerealia are the Leguminosaj, or leguminous plants whose seeds are found in a pod botanically called a legumen, such as peas and beans' Many roots, fruits, and even the stems of foreign trees, yield a large proportion of farina of which the most valuable that we possess is the potato. Almonds, walnuts, and' filberts contain farina mixed with oil and mucilage, but they are not with us employed for the purpose of making bread. Other substances will be mentioned at the end of this article ; but at present our object is to confine ourselves to such farinaceous materials as are in common use in this country for the manufacture of bread. 4183. It appears to be one of the wise dispensations of Providence, of which the study of nature furnishes so many and such striking examples, that the Cerealia or corn plants are distributed all over the face of the earth, or at least in all those parts where it is most desirable that man shall fix his abode ; and they are likewise now become to such a degree the object of cultm-e, that no civilised country is destitute of this valuable addition to its means of sustenance. 4184. The principal corn plants are wheat, rye, oats, rice, maize, and millet: there are manj^ others belonging to the same tribe, but they are little in request, on account of the smallness of their seeds. The term corn is generally applied, in every country, to that species particularly which is raised in the greatest quantity, and which is most generally employed; thus, in America, maize, almost solely, is called corn. Wheat is the most valuable of the grains used in the fabrication of bread : it is, in fact, the only one of which light porous bread can be made ; the others are only used in climates not suitable to the cultivation of wheat, or for malt, or for the food of cattle. 4185. All the corn plants are annuals, the head or ear containing the seed being sup- ported upon a straw or culm which is hollow, and divided by joints (hence they are called culmiferous plants), a single leaf proceeding from each joint. It is worthy of remark that the stems are coated with a glossy varnish, consisting of actual silex or flint, which the vegetable has the power of extracting from the soil and dissolving, although the particular means by which this is effected are unknown to us. This is well seen in the bamboo and canes, which, though not Cerealia, belong to the Gramina. Masses of spongy glass derived from this source have been found where stacks of com have been burned down ; and this is the reason why the ashes of straw forms an excellent polishing material, the siliceous part not being destroyed by the combustion. 4186. The Cerealia are all remarkable for their extraordinary power of multiplication, each grain or seed throwing out several stalks, all of which bear ears ; and the number of these is not limited, but depends upon the more or less favourable circumstances. This increase in the stalks is called tillering, and is performed by a second set of roots, called coronal roots, shooting out at the surface of the ground subsequently to the first or seminal roots. Some extraordinary instances are related of this kind of multiplication. In 1660, a plant of barley was preserved in Paris, as we are told by Kenehn Digby, that had 249 stalks springing from one grain, and in the ears were counted 18,000 seeds. A still more extraordinary fact is related in the Philos. Trans., vol. Ixviii.:—Mr. MiUer, of Cambridge, found that a single grain of wheat, sowed on the 2d of June, had produced 18 stalks: on the 8th of August he took up the plant, and divided the stalks from each other, each having its root, and planted them again separately. Every separate plant now again tillered, throwing out fresh roots and stalks. These he again took up, divided, and planted as before, and so on several times, till by the next April they had multiplied to 500 plants, all extremely vigorous; the number of ears from these amounted to 21,109, and the number of grains to 576,840. But such instances are uncommon. The straw of the Cerealia is useful as fodder for cattle, for thatching, and various other purposes. 4187. The corn plants have been so long the produce of cultivation, that all knowledge of their native countries is lost; and, indeed, they have undergone so much change from the progress of agriculture, and so different are they at present from what they were in their wild state, that the originals cannot be recognised with certaint)'; nor is it clear, when these plants are discovered in unfrequented regions, whether they may not have been brought there at some distant time, and have remained as a trace of ancient civilisation. It is most probable, however, that it was from the central parts of India the rest of the world has derived this important gift of Providence, as well as most of the other useful vegetables and fruits cultivated iu Europe. They were all, except maize, unknown in America on its discovery. The corn phmts do not grow equally in all cUnmtes; and the globe may be divided into several zones, according'to the prevalence of some particular grain. Eice requires the warmest climate; next maize; then wheat, rye, barley, and oats. The three first are