189 liHAP. nr. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE, : 850. The lighter sort of hides, called dressing hides, used for coach work, harness, &c., ve managed nearly in the same manner as the last, and afterwards go to the currier. In imsequence of the application of chemical science to the subject of tanning, it was ifpected that the time employed in the process might be very much shortened, so much ■ as from a year and a half to two years, to a few months ; but the combination of the ^in with tannin is a slow process, and it requires a long time for the tan to penetrate the centre of the hides. Although by making stronger infusions of the bark, leather juld be made in a few months, yet such leather was found to be harder, and more liable i crack. Even the method described by Mr. Babbage as a recent improvement, namely, rrcing the bark liquor into the pores by exhaustion with the air pump, is not found to i.sswer. Weak infusions of tan, applied for fifteen months at least, make the best aather: but as tanned leather is sold bj' weight, there is a strong inducement to the manufacturer to make his hides weigh as much as possible in the tan pit, although at the iipense of the toughness or compactness of the leather. Weak infusions not only take anger time to produce their efiect, but also give leather of less weight: and the price hhich it fetches in the market is scarcely sufficient to make up for the increased expense ] point of time. ;85l. All barks contain more or less of the tanning principle; but in this country oak bark 1 preferred, on account of its richness in tannin, and its abundance. In Russia, where ee best of leather is made, the bark of the black willow is preferred, and next to this rrch bark. But of all the substances which have been tried, catechu, a sort of gum, 'ontains the greatest quantity of the tanning principle. The tree which produces this vows in New South Wales, from which we shall probably obtain it at a cheap rate. (Oak bark being a very expensive article in the process of tanning, various substances Hive been proposed as substitutes for it. All the parts of vegetables which are of an titringent nature contain this principle (which may be known by their giving precipitates ■ith gelatine insoluble in water), and will answer this purpose. The leaves, branches, uit, flowers, of a vast number of plants : every part of the oak, as the leaves and acorns, ik saw dust, and the barks of all trees, contain more or less tannin. From experiments hich have been made, the following are the quantities of the tanning principle in various nrks. grs. ■ grs. Bark of willow - - 59 mountain ash - - 60 poplar - - 76 hazel - - 79 ash - - 82 Spanish chesnut - 98 smooth oak - - 104 oak cut in spring - 108 Himtingdon or Leices- T tershu-e wUlow J ^ sumach - - 158 Bark of elm - - 28 oak cut in winter - 30 horsechesnut - - 30 beech - - 31 willow (boughs) - 31 elder - - 41 plum tree - 58 willow (trunk) - 52 sycamore - - 53 birch - - 54 cherry tree - - 59 '852. The thickest leather, used for the soles of boots and shoes, requires nothing more lan the process above described; but that which is wanted to be supple and soft, such the light cow hides, and those of calves, horses, dogs, seals, &c., and for the upper athers of shoes and legs of boots, also for coach and harness leather, saddles, and other lings of that kind, are subjected to another process after the tanning is finished, called inrrying. 853. Currying consists in steeping the leather in water, covering one surfiice with a iidxture of oil and tallow, and then stoving it. As the water evaporates, the oil takes its lace in the pores of the leather; the grain side, to which the hair was attached, is then ihbbed over with a solution of sulphate of iron, which strikes a black with the tannin of ee leather. Beating and passing it between rollers, to smooth its surfaces, is the last •ocess. If the flesh side of the leather is required to be blacked instead of the grain de, it is rubbed over with a mixture of lamp black, oil and tallow, called waxing. ■ 854. The tanning principle in oak and other barks is sometimes applied to the pnrpose of ■eserving other substances besides skins. Fishermen resort to this to render their nets ore durable, and the sails of their boats are sometimes treated in the same manner: the jplication to other articles is obvious. The method of impregnating nets, cordage, &c. nth tannin is the following. Two pounds of glue are dissolved in fifteen gallons of ater: the nets are dipped into this solution, and steeped in a strong solution of oak or her good bark. The tannin combines with the gelatine, and envelopes the fibres of the cmp with a leathery coating, which prevents the action of the water and the weather, ny gelatinous substance will answer instead of glue : enough might be obtained from lany parts of fish now thrown away. 855. Tawing is the preparation of leather by a combination of tanning and aluming . and