756 Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. siderable acquaintance with the methods of chemical analysis, they can only be practised by i^crsons con- versant with that subject, who will readily find the means of .nccomplishing this object. 4306. J^^e have, in the last section, mnitioneil tiro methods which are practised of raising dimgh without the usual process of fermentation ; one by the use of carbonate of ammonia, and another by means of carbonate of soda and muriatic acid. By both of these methods carbonic acid gas i.s disengaged, which renders the liread porous and light; nor are they in any way hurtful to health, the ammonia, through its volatility, flying off entirely, and the salt formed by the last process being only common salt, such as is always used in bread. But it 13 to be observed, that bakers can by these processes cause dough to rise made of flour spoiled, or, as they call it, sour flour, which could not be raised easily by yeast, and therefore bread may thus be made of bad flour to look nearly as well as if made of the best. Occasionally, however, these processes are employed for other purposes than those of sophistication ; they are sometimes used with yeast to insure the rising of the dough in cases of difliculty, or where the bakers are in a hurry. 4307. But although bread baked and raised by these means is vesicular or porous, and nearly similar in appearance to bread made with ye.ast, yet, when closely examined, the nature of its pores is very different; the pores are generally large, and the mass is seldom spongy, or full of minute pores, and frequently a large cavity is foiTned in the loaf; it is, besides, difficult to expel the List traces of the ammonia, which sometimes leave an unpleasant taste. Vogel has m.ide some accurate experiments on this subject, and he has shown, in opposition to what has been asserted, that it is impossible to make such good bread l>y the use of water impregnated with carbonic acid gas, mixtures of carbonate of soda and tartaric acid, or any method of gene- rating gas, as by the employment of yeast. 4308. Some white substances are said to have been employed by millers and balers for the purposes of whitening flour and bread by direct mixture, as chalk, plaster of Paris, bones cilcined and ground, which are all very prejudicial. It is very unlikely that these are now often used as adulterating ingredients, however they may have been, since the means of detection are so well known. If any such materials are suspected in bread, it will be sufficient, in order to discover them, to boil some of the bread in a certain quantity of water, when the substances will separate and fall to the bottom as a white powder, which may be examined by a chemist. It is scarcely necessary to say that no powder of this kind can be any part of the flour itself; but if any such occur, it must be the consequence of sophistication. If the powder be chalk, oil of vitriol (called also sulphuric acid and hydrochloric acid), diluted with six times its weight of water, will occasion an effer- vescence or bubbling when poured upon it. 4309. The general preference that is given to bread very while has been considered to arise from prejudice, and it has been said that it is in consequence of this false taste in the public that bakers have been in some degree compelled to seek out methods of making their bread as white as possible beyond what their profits will allow. It is very necessary that we should be extremely cautious how we admit of excuses for the adulteration of so important an article of food as bread, and it is highly desirable that we view the subject in its true light. We have already explained that the finest flour is composed of the central part of the grains of wheat, and, when the grain is of the best quality, this part is extremely white. The exterior part of the wheat affords a flour less white. The white- ness of flour, therefore, when it is pure and imadulterated, becomes in some degree a test of its having been produced from the centre of the grain, which gives what is called the finest and best flour. Good wheat likewise affords a flour whiter than damaged wheat, or than the meal of other grains, as barley, oats, peas, and beans. It is no wonder, there- fore, that the public should have the impression that the whiteness of flour, and, of course, of the bread made from it, is more likely to be of the first quality rather than what is of a darker colour, since the latter may not only consist of inferior flour, but may be adul- terated with some other substance. Bread of the whole of the wheat is, of course, much less white than what is made of fine flour, but it is said to be quite as nutritious, or even more so, and hence the preference of very white bread is called a false taste. But it does not appear to be clearly established that brown bread is more wholesome in general than white if the latter be pure, and there is a reason why, weight for weight, the white is the most nutritious. The flour of which brown bread is made drinks up more water in making it into dough and baking than the white ; hence, in an eqtial weight of white and brown bread, there is most water, and, of course, less nutritive matter, in the former. It is true the brown is also the cheapest, but it is said that the labouring classes find the white, after all, the most satisfying, and therefore, as they suppose, the most economical. This may or may not be so ; but if true, their preference of it cannot be called a prejudice, and white bread is more likely to be of good quality than what is worse coloured ; for though substances are sometimes used to give artificial whiteness, yet these, being of so easy detection, are probably very seldom made such use of; and if there is no adulteration by the intermixture of other substances, the whitest bread is most likely to be the best, as it ferments most readily, and contains most gluten and starch. 4.310. Tlie most general adulteration of bread as it is made at present is the mixing potatoes with the dough, which has become so frequent a practice, that bakers make no secret of it. Many of them assert that good bread cannot be made without it, and that such bread is more light, palatable, and digestible than that which is manufactured from wheaten flour alone. We must confess that we doubt the truth of this statement in the way in which it is intended to be understood. The addition of potatoes to bread may serve the balicr's purpose, since potatoes cost him less than an equal weight of flour; potatoes are not an unwholesome addition, and bread made in this manner may be very palatable; but when we consider the composition of wheat flour and of potatoes, the latter containing no gluten, which is the most nutritive part of wheat flour, it must be obvious that bread mixed with potatoes is less nutritious than an equal weight of what is made solely from wheat. Should this practice be admitted to be fair, and the price of such bread reduced in proportion to that of the ingredients, there might be no reason for complaint; but to put as large a