I Chap. V. 989 SILK FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. , colour, and may consequently be wrought into tissues of any desired hue. The loom also 1 may be arranged so as to produce not only all kinds of twills, satins, spots, &c., but the I richest and most complicated figures. It would, therefore, be futile to attempt an enumera- I tion of all the fabrics now produced in the foreign and domestic silk manufacture, and ■ we shall notice only some of the principal kinds in use amongst us. .5815. Sil/i damask. — This is a twilled fabric, and made in the same manner as the well-known linen damasks used for table cloths, with flowers and other ornamental pat- 1 terns formed upon it. Formerly silk damask was much used for dress, as well as furni- I ture, but it was too expensive a material to have ever come into common use, and was ■ principally confined to the high-bom and wealthy of the land ; not but that, on occasions i of ceremony, persons in the middle ranks sometimes displayed silk damask garments, which were handed down as heirlooms from one generation to another. From its name it has been supposed that the art of weaving damask came originally from Damascus. Its introduction as a manufacture into England was owing to the French weavers, ■who I took refuge here in the time of Queen Elizabeth. Damask is employed in furniture, such as hangings, chair and sofa covers, &c. Formerly ! it was wrought with various colours, and it is so still occasionally on the Continent, which : sometimes had a rich effect: at present it is not usual with us to have more than one 1 colour, and richness is produced by the elegance and beauty of the pattern. The weaving of damask puts into requisition all the skill of the weaver for the pro- 1 duction of the elaborate patterns which they sometimes bear. Some of these patterns 1 require upwards of 1200 changes of the draw-looms for their completion : but the 1 damasks employed at the present day for curtains and similar articles of furniture is gene- ) rally made of a mixture of silk with flax, cotton, or wool, the warp being of the more I costly material. 5816. Brocade.— An excessive love of rich and splendid stufis for dress appears to have ibeen a taste originally oriental. In China and India it has long been the fashion to 1 ornament silk and muslin with threads of gold and silver. These gradually found their 'way into Europe, and were imitated and improved upon. Silks which have gold or •silver threads, or a mixture of these, are called brocades, and were highly esteemed by our . ancestors, who paid more regard to the richness and value of the material than to the ! form of the dress. Taste has so much altered in this respect, that it is only in the '■writings of the last century we can discover the degree of estimation in ■which this kind I of finery was once held. Pope, in his " Rape of the Lock," and Addison, in " The Spec- t tator," have satirised this taste for finery, which we may perceive proofs of in pictures and 3ancient wardrobes. The richest brocades appear to have been made in Italy ; a consi- derable manufactory of them was carried on at Lucca during the thirteenth century. The 1 French government afterwards engaged a celebrated mechanician, Vaucausin, to contrive I machinery for producing similar fabrics at Lyons, an account of which is published iin the Memoirs of the French Academy for 1757. 5817. In the manufacture of gold brocade, a silver wire is gilt, dra^wn out to great {fineness and flattened. This is twisted by a machine round a silk thread dyed of a colour aas near as possible to that of the metal. The principal art in preparing these gold threads cconsists in applying the flattened metallic wire so as just to cover the silk completely 'without any overlapping, and consequently making the whole look like a thread of gold. ■At Milan they had a secret process by which the exterior side only of the flattened wire iwas gilt; and the Chinese, more economical, instead of flattened gilt wire, often use slips of ugilt paper, which they interweave in their stuff's, and twist upon silk threads; but it is ' Obvious that this can have little durability, and is confined to tapestries, or such stuffs aas are not exposed to moisture. In some brocades, the ground is plain silk, and the gold and silver are applied by being '•worked in flowers or other ornaments ; afterwards, this name was given to rich silk stuffs '■which were adorned with worked flowers, without gold or silver ; and at present it is the custom to apply the term brocade to various silks, as satins, talFetas, lutestrings, and even to •stuffs and grograms, if they are adorned with flowers or other figures. Brocades, into the composition of which metals are admitted, are very liable to become tarnished, particularly ■silver, or where the gold has not been quite pnre. When this has happened, their lustre imay sometimes be restored by washing theiu with a soft brush dipped in warm spirits of ■■wine. The use of brocades in ordinary dress has long been discontinued, but it is occasionally •employed in fui-niture. So late as 1788, some very elegant pieces were woven in Spital- :ifields to be used as chair scats in Carlton House, which proved that the art had not ndeteriorated. Besides the perfect brocade, the Venetians made a kind which they called damasquete, •which, though it had only half the (luantity of gold or silver, looked even richer. The •iflatted wire was neither woimd close together on the silk threads, nor the threads stuck close in tlie weaving ; yet by passing the stuff between rollers, the tissue or flower was made to