HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY, Book XIL 866 Fig.ni 4895. must be fixed fiiinly to the dish. Then the point of the knife may be entered at a vul- nerable part of the head, which it -will readily cleare in two. In the cavity the brains will be seen and easily taken out. 4891. Rahhils are carved in the same manner as hares, with the exception of the back, which is divided into two parts only, and which, with the legs, ig considered as the most delicate part. 4892. Butcher's meat, in carving, chiefly requires a good carving-knife and a little practice. The general custom is to cut slices of beef ^particularly boiled beef) and veal rather thin ; mutton and pork somewhat thicker. 4893. In a sirloin of beef the inside meat should be cut across the joint; the outside, lengthwise with the bones. Meat from ribs of beef is cut in thin slices lengthwise with the bones, unless the meat is boned and rolled, when it is cut as a round of beef. 4894. Of a leg of mutton the first slice should be taken out, as at a, Jig. 771., between the knuckle, b, and the thick end. Other slices may be cut in the same direction, till the knife is stopped by the cramp bone, c. The leg is then turned round, and slices are taken lengthwise from the thick end towards the knuckle. The best slices in a leg of mutton are from the upper end, although the parts about the knuckle are sometimes pre- ferred, and which it is desirable should be eaten while hot, being hard, dry, and less agreeable when cold. A haunch of mutton and a haunch of venison are sent to table with the outside of the leg uppermost, and are each carved alike, being cut down to the bone in the direction of the line a be, Jiy. 772., by which means the gravy escapes into the dish. The broad end is then turned towards the carver, who cuts deep in from b to d, and gives with each slice a due proportion of fat, which lies chiefly on the left side of the Une b d. The fat of venison is esteemed as a great de- licacy. 4896. The saddle of mutton is considered as a prime joint, but not an economical one, much of it consisting of fat and bone. It is carved in slices taken lengthwise with the bone. 4897. In a fore quarter of lamb the shoulder is first separated from the ribs or target, upon which a small piece of butter, some lemon juice, pepper and salt, are sometimes put, and the shoulder is then replaced for a time. The brisket is cut off from the ribs, and divided into small pieces ; according to the choice of those to be served, the different parts of the quarter are distributed. The ribs under the shoulder are the choicest parts. 4898. A breast of veal (roasted) should be cut down quite through in the first line on the left of d c, fig. 773., and then in the line a c, thus separating the two parts of the breast, brisket and ribs. The brisket is again divided in the lines a b. It is pre- ferred by some to the rib bones, which last are separated from each other in the lines (/ c. With this joint the sweetbread is often roasted, and is distributed in small portions with the meat. 4899. In a. boiled calf's head there are many choice parts. The first cut, in the direction c b, fig. 774., is along the cheek bone in the fleshy part. At the end of the jaw-bone lies the throat sweetbread, esteemed the best part of the head, and to be cut out in the direction c d. The ci/e part, also a delicacy, is cut out from its socket, a, by forcing the point of the carving knife down to the bottom on one edge of the socket, and cutting quite round, keeping the point of the knife slanting towards the middle. The palate, nnother choice part, is found on the u.idor side of the roof of the mouth, a crinkled, white, thick skin, which is easily cut away from the bone. Some good meat and fat (of which many are fond) may be met with on the under side, covering the under