HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. 324 mode in which he is to perform his business ; and he is especially blamable if, at the same time, he impertinently retorts, " I know my business, and am not come here to learn." 1437. In describing the course of domestic business, the object herein is not to mark the limits of each servant's province, as if he was not subject, in the main, to the wishes of his master, or to the convenience of the family whom he serves ; but governed, as it were, by prescriptive regulations, to which, as a code of domestic laws, he may appeal for his justification when inclined to disobey orders given him. On the contrary, the intention of this work is, after setting forth the condition and usual treatment of servants, to present a manual of domestic knowledge and of household practice, to which inexperienced house- keepers and servants may alike refer, when seeking to know the details in each branch of household duty, and the mode in which, in all general cases, household work is distributed throughout the establishment. 1438. The suggestions and details thus brought together may be respectively useful to master and servant, without affording pretext to either for the omission of any part of their mutual obligations, or for any breach in their mutual compact. Sect. II. QUALITIES OF SERVANTS. 1439. In servants generally, we look for the essential qualities of integrity, sobriety, clean- liness, and general propriety in mannei and dress, together with the knowledge of the duties in their respective departments of household business which, on being hired, they professed: whence, besides these indispensable qualities and powers, some few members of large establishments should, in order to be competent and effective, have other distinctive marks of fitness for the ofBce filled. 1440. A house steward, for instance, the chief member of the establishment, holds the most responsible of the household ofiices. Of him, as the representative of a higher domestic authority, we would remark, that he should, in some measure, manifest qualities similar to those possessed by him whom he represents. Any one having authority over others should have self-command, to enable him to meet, without forgetting himself, pro- vocations from the unruly or insolent subordinate members of the establishment. He should possess firmness in enforcing all reasonable performance of duty : he should have integrity beyond the powers of any one to induce him to connive in deviations from duty or honesty : with these qualities, he should demean himself in such a manner, that none in the subordinate departments of the house should be on such familiar grounds with him, as to diminish his authority or influence over them. A butler is sometimes similarly situated with the house steward, and is hence called upon to exercise similar qualities with those above mentioned. 1441. The housekeeper, whose place in the female part of an establishment is similar to that of the house steward among the men servants, should possess the observation and vigilance of an active mistress of a family. Her eye should never be withdrawn from the circle of her duties ; in that she should be ever ready to act with the decision, keen- ness, and interest, of a principal, maintaining over the subordinate actors in it a strict but not severe superintendence. Those whom she has to direct, and to keep to a regular discharge of duty, are like children, requiring a firm mind to govern them, a quick apprehension of their dispositions, so as to apply to each an appropriate stimulus to good conduct ; and a kind disposition, to atford them comfort and consolation when ill, or in sorrow. To sum up the characteristics of a good housekeeper, she should display a propriety of manner which impertinence would not dare to attack, and an integrity of conduct which malignity could not impeach. 1442. To the lady's maid and valet, both standing on similar grounds, prudence of speech should belong. It would secure them the confidence of their employers, and save them from the inconvenience and trouble in which indiscreet tattling would involve them. Being more immediately about the person of those whom they serve than others of tlu' establishment, they have opportunities of hearing opinions of persons and circumstances, hastily and unguardedly expressed, which, if repeated, might be mischievous, especially if told inaccurately, or with exaggerations. In these two members of the establishment, it is also apparent that uniform neatness, and cleanliness of person, with order in their habits, and the power of controlling their tempers, arc requisite qualities. 1443. Of the head nurse, the qualifications which appear to be requisite or desirable are so numerous as scarcely to be found united in one individual. Fitness for the important office of nurse must be found in an union of qualities and powers, both natural and acquired. 1444. In person, a nurse should have no striking peculiarity or deformitj'. No habitual tricks with the features, such as squinting or grimaces: no defect in the articulation, such as lisping and stammering: no singularity or vulgarity in the tone or accent: for such