ON TEA. Chap. X. 697 aud examined by the botanist, though a difference of character is perceived, yet this is not sufficient to authorise considering them as distinct species. 4001. The tea tree or shrub belongs to the class and order of Monadelphia Polyandria in the Linnasan system, and to the natural order of Aurantiaceas in the system of Jussieu. Lately it has been made into a new order, the Theasia, which inchides the Camellia and some other plants. It commonly grows to the height of from three to six feet; but it is said that in its wild or native state it reaches to twent}' feet or more. In China it is cultivated in numerous small plantations. In its general appearance, and the form of its leaf, fig. 572. it resembles the myrtle ; the blossoms are white and fragrant, not unlike those of the wild rose, but smaller, and they are succeeded by soft green cap- sules, containing each from one to three white seeds. These capsules are crushed for oil, which is in general use in China. 4002. The tea tree does not require a tropical climate, but flourishes best in temperate regions. In China, where it is indigenous, the greatest part of the tea grows between the twenty-seventh and thirty-first degrees of north latitude, though the plant thrives to the north and south of these parallels. It also grows in Japan, Cochin China, Tonquin, and Ava, and it is raised without difficulty in our own green-houses. The part of China where the best tea is cidtivated is called by us the " tea country," and consists of portions of five provinces; viz. for black tea, Tokien and Canton, but more particularly the first, where formerly European traders were permitted to resort, imtil the evils supposed to arise from the intercourse with foreigners induced the Chinese government to restrict all communication to a single port; and for green tea, Kiang-nan, Kiang-si, and Chi- kiang, but chiefly the first of these, that beautiful province of which Nanking is the capital. The worst teas, the bohea, come from Woping, a district in Canton. In other parts of China, tea, though grown, is of inferior quality compared with that of the above-mentioned provinces, and is raised for local consumption only, or when of a superior kind, it loses its flavour when e.'>cported, like some of the fine wines of France. The more northern part of China, as Pecheli, the metropolitan province in lat. 40°, is too cold for the successful culture of the tea plant; and in the extreme southern parts of China the heat is too great. It is not cultivated farther south than about Canton, where a few small plantations are to be seen. The production of good tea depends upon soil and locality folly as much as that of good wine; like it, too, the produce varies according to the care with which the crop is collected and prepared for use. The quality of the crop varies also, like the vintage, with the nature of each season. The best green tea is grown in the district of Hoey-chow-foo, the most southerly city of the province of Keang-nan, and about 700 miles from Canton. The soil in which it is reared is a decomposition of granite abounding in felspar; and it is remarkable that it is from the same mineral the finest porcelain cups for drinking tea are manufactured. The black tea district is about 200 miles from Canton. 4003. The cultivation of the tea plant requires great care. It is raised chiefly on the sides of hills; and in order to increase the quantity and improve the quality of the leaves, the shrub is pruned, so as not to exceed the height or fi-om two to three feet;much in the same manner as the vine is treated in France. They pluck the leaves one by one, select- ing them according to the kinds of tea required; and notwithstanding the tediousness of the operation, each labourer is able to gather from four to ten or fifteen pounds a day. When the trees attain to six or seven years of age, the produce becomes so inferior that they are removed to make room for a fresh succession, or they are cut down to allow of numerous young shoots. In China landed prnperlij is very much subdivided; and tea is for the most part grown in gardens or plantations of no great extent by proprietors little above the rank of peasants. The leaves, being gathered by the cultivator's family, are immediately carried to market,- where they are purchased by a particular class of dealers who dry them, and otherwise prepare them to be sold to the " tea merchants." The latter complete the manufacture, sorting the teas according to their qualities, give them a final drying, and pack them up in chests, which are stamped with tlie name of the grower or manufacturer, and the mer- chant who makes them up. 4004. Teas of the finest flavour consist of the youngest leaves; and as these are gathered at four different periods of the year, the younger the leaves, the higher flavoured the tea, and the scarcer, and consequently the dearer, the article. 4005. Perhaps one of the most authentic accounts which we have of the preparation of