420 ON FOOD. Book VII. SuBSECT. 23.—The Sprat {Clupea sprattus, Linn.) 2187. This well-knowu little oily fish never grows to a larger size than four or five inches in length. It is a -wandering fish, visits our shores, and continues with us in large shoals, when the herring and other fish have retired to the- deep. They enter the river Thames below bridge about the beginning of November, and leave it in March ; and being sold at a low price are, during their season, a great relief to the poor of the capital. At Gravesend and at Yarmouth they are cured like red herrings. They are sometimes pickled, and, when managed properly, are little inferior in flavour to the anchovy, but the bones will not dissolve like those of the latter. In Cornwall the true sprat is very rare ; what has been so called is the young of the pilchard. The coasts of Kent, Essex, and Suffolk are the most productive of them. There, from 400 to 500 boats are employed during the winter; and besides the immense supply to the inhabitants of London, many thousand tons are sold at from sixpence to eightpence per bushel to farmers, who employ them as manure to the land, distributing about forty bushels over an acre; they have even been sent up the Medway to manure the hop grounds in Kent. Sdbsect. 24. — WJiite Bait (Clupea alosa. Linn.). During the month of July there appears in the river Thames, near Blackwall and Greenwich, innumerable multitudes of small fish, which are known to the Londoners by the name of tvhite bait. They are esteemed very delicious when fried with fine flour, and occasion, during the season, a vast resort of persons to the taverns contiguous to the places where they are taken. There were various conjectures about this fish; and though most of them terminated in a supposition that they are the fry of some fish, few agreed to which kind they owe their origin. Some attributed them to the shad, others to the sprat, the smelt, or the bleak. Mr. Donovan, in his " History of British Fishes," states that he had ascertained past all doabt that the white bait is the fry of the shad. Mr. Yarrell, however, in his late work on fishes, contests this opinion, and maintains that the white bait is a species distinct from every other fish. It is supposed that the parent fish are not taken, from not coming up high enough in the river. \Miile it was supposed that white bait was the fry of other fish, and that using small nets for taking them was destructive to these fish, such nets were forbidden to be employed: but now that the subject is supposed to be better understood, the fishermen resume the use of these nets without any notice being taken of it, and white bait are commonly sold in London. SuBSECT. 25.— The Shad {Clupea alosa, Linn.). 2188. The shad is a sea fish that enters our rivers in May in order to spawn ; and this accomplished, it returns to the sea by the end of July. Great numbers are taken opposite the Isle of Dogs in the Thames, but they are in little repute. The usual size is about twelve inches in length, SuBSECT. 26. — The Anchovy {Clupea enchrasicohts, Linn.) 2189. The little fish called anchovy is less used with us as food than as affording an agreeable relish, or for sauces and seasonings. It bears a considerable resemblance to the sprat; and its general length is from three to four inches, or at the utmost, about four inches and a half. It is found in greatest plenty in the Mediterranean, but also in the Northern and Atlantic seas; and, like the herring, is supposed to leave the deep recesses of the sea, approaching the shores in spring for the purpose of depositing its spawn. The great fishery of anchovies is at Gorgona, a small isle to the west of Leghorn : and they are likewise caught in the Zuyder Zee in Holland, where their fishing is a very pi-ofitaole branch, and many thousand barrels are annually cured at Amsterdam, Monickendam &c., for exportation. They are taken in vast quantities, and prepared for sale by salting and pickling ; they are put into salt as soon as they are taken, while still alive. The bones dissolve in boiling. The anchovy has been observed (and Mr. Yarrell says more fre- quently than is usually supposed) on the English coast. It is stated by Mr. Crouch that the anchovy abounds on the Cornish coast towards the end of siimmer, and that sufiicient might be procured to supply Great Britain if attention were directed to the fisherj' in October and November. Anchovies should be chosen small, fresh pickled, white outside and red within. Their backs should be round, not-flattened. The head being bitter is removed in pickling. 2190. The sardine is a fish so called in the Mediterranean, flatter in the back and larger than anchovies, and is frequently substituted for them ; but it is much inferior to the real anchovy ; it is said by some naturalists that the sardine is no other than a small pilchard.