152 Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION, the light, by dispersing it and softening the shadows. Tliey should be cleaned once a fortnight with soap or pearl-ash : the latter ■wiU not injure them. For some lamps ■white paper, not too thiclj, makes an excellent shade, and particularly for an econo- mical reading lamp. Transparent envelopes, or shades for some purposes, as lanterns for passages, may be made very elegantly of chintz of agreeable patterns: and some have cut out the flowers or other ornaments of chintz, and pasted them on varnished paper. Chinese lanterns are frequently made of paper painted. Sect. III. ANNULAR FRENCH LAMP. 698. This lamp has been for many years very generally used in England as a table lamp. In the original construction of Argand's lamp, the reservoir for the oil was placed on one side of the flame ; and consequently the light being obstructed by it, there was a strong and inconvenient shadow on that side. To obviate this imperfection, the annular \w!v^,fig. 126., has been contrived. The ring of metal, a h,fig. 126. contains the oil, which descends below the bm-ner c by the tubes d e; a. constraction which is extremely simple, and consequently not liable to be out of order, y is a cap, by unscrewing which, the oil may be poured into the reservoir. The construction of the burner is on Argand's principle. This lamp was placed upon an elegant stand, as at A, and the flame was concealed by a hemisphere of ground glass; or by a complete sphere, as at B. It is worth while observing, that the French employed this construction also in lamps of a cheap kind for suspending, which, though not used here, yet may be useful, as they might easily be executed where Argand's lamps cannot be procured. The oil was contained in an annular reservoir of tin, japanned or painted, g,Jtg. 127.; and instead of Argand's burners, the wicks were of the common flat kind, but surrounded by glasses. To reflect the light do-\vn, a skeleton of wire such as is used for bonnets, was raised over them in a hemispherical form, and on that was fixed thin silk, which, being partly transparent, had a Fig. 127. very pretty efiect. Below was suspended a small glass basin, to catch the droppings of oil. Sect. IV. Parker's sinumbra lamp. 699. Although the object of the French lamp was to do away the shadow cast by the reservoir of the Argand lamp, this was not completely cflTected : for still a slight shadow was projected by the thickness of the annular reservoir, which, coming just about the level of the eyes of those at table, had an unpleasant effect. This fault was corrected by an improvement made by Mr. Parker, for which he took a patent in 1$20. In his lamp, called the Sinumhm, or shadowless lamp, ^5'. 128., the reservoir is sloped away from the light, by reducing the breadth of the ring in front in the manner shown in the sectioa