ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. 70 surrounding it, uniting to the oxygen, and thus forming carbonic acid gas, heat and light being given out in consequence of this process. If, therefore, charcoal be burned in an apartment without a chimney, the consequence will be the production of a large quantity of this suffocating gas, which, mixing with the common air of the place, may not at first prove fatal, but if suffered to accumulate in a great quantity, the room being close, will infallibly prove so, as is well known from persons dying in consequence of sleeping in a small room with a pan of lighted charcoal. The combustion of wood or coal is more complicated ; as they consist, not of carbon only, like charcoal, but of the three other principles, carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen. When a piece of wood is kindled, the heat causes these elementary principles to separate and become gaseous in the following manner. The hydrogen of the wood, united to a portion of carbon, forming a variety of carburetted hydrogen gas, or the gas that burns in gas Ught, joins rapidly to the oxygen ; and this rapid union is productive of that heat and light which appears as flame : at the same time, a certain part of the hydrogen only, uniting to the oxygen, fomis water, which becomes vapour or steam in this intense heat, and is dissipated or dissolved in the atmo- sphere. Of the remaining carbon or charcoal, a part joined to oxygen forms carbonic acid gas, which, being highly heated and expanded, and hence rendered specifically light, rises upwards, and is mixed with a little pyroligneous or acetic acid, generated in the combustion, and which gives the penetrating effect peculiar to wood smoke, and which is not foimd in the smoke of coal. The rest of the carbon remains at first as charcoal; but this also bums, and finishes by being converted into carbonic acid, as in the case of charcoal above mentioned. From this we see that the wood in burning is decomposed, and separated into its elementary constituents, and likewise that several other substances are produced; for it is to be observed that nothing in nature is ever destroyed, the disappearance of any material by combustion being, in fact, merely a new arrangement of its parts in other forms. The new substances, in this case, are carbonic acid gas, and water, or rather aqueous vapour: to which we must add nitrogen, for that is the remnant of the air, after the oxygen was taken from it, the nitrogen having no active part Ln the combustion. If wood, therefore, is made to burn in a room without a chimney, two deleterious gases will be produced, carbonic acid gas, and nitrogen gas, the oxygen of the air being taken up to create the former : and if this combustion were to continue long enough, all the oxygen would be consumed, and only these two poisonous gases left, which are entirely incapable of supporting life. It is obvious, therefore, that to have much wood in a close room without a chimney would be as fatal to burn as charcoal. The same will be the case with respect to any other combustible ; as, for instance, coal. 316. Many persons are deceived from charcoal giving out no smoke, and they are hence not sensible of the production of so poisonous a gas as carbonic acid, which is properly in- visible ; they often suppose, also, that it is the smoke alone that suffocates in the burning of wood in a close apartment; but the smoke, though disagreeable, is not the chief cause of the suffocation, which is owing to the production of the carbonic acid, a few inspira- tions only of which are fatal. Seeing this to be the case, that all combustion produces deadly poisons, this process would be fatal to us, were it not for a wise law of nature. The heat produced by combustion causes all these gases to expand and become specifically lighter than the common air, in consequence of which they rise upwards, which prevents our breathing them, except they are suffered to accumulate in a confined space ; and now appears the use of a chimney with its flue. When fuel is burned in one of them, all the deleterious gases ascend through it, and escape into the open air, without contaminating that of the apartment. The ascent of the smoke enables us to perceive this rising current ; but the smoke itself is nothing more than a small portion of the fuel which has escaped the combustion, and is carried up by the ascending currents of the new gases so produced, and which we have described. It is, indeed, merely an extremely fine dust or powder, which, when collected, is the soot that attaches to the flue, a substance well known to be still inflammable. The smoke being visible, assists in estimating the rapidity of the ascent of the gases that rise from combustion, but is not itself so dangerous as the gas which carries it up; and, indeed, smoke is itself heavier than the atmospheric air, and falls down when separated from the heated air. 317. The combustion of coal is very similar to that of wood, the elementary constituents being nearly the same. The flame of both, as we have stated, is owing to the burning of the hydrogen, or rather the carburetted hydrogen, or coal gas ; as charcoal and coke have been both deprived of their hydrogen in the process of charring, they cannot, of course, give any flame ; neither can anthracite, a kind of natural coal having no hydrogen, but consisting, like coke or charcoal, almost entirely of carbon. The nature of the various kinds of fuel will be described afterwards, in Chap. III. 318. But besides the gases tvc have, just mentioned, a very small quantity of sulphuretted hydroqen, another suffocating gas, is gi ven off by the burning of coal; some of the sulphur, of wliich all common coal contains a small portion, uniting with some of the hydrogen. A part of the carburetted hydrogen also escapes without liaving been burned, in consc-