ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. 132 water, in a Papin's digester, having the valve loaded -with tlie pressure of two or three atmospheres. After this process it is subjected to an hydraulic press, which forces out the elaine or fluid oil, leaving the stearine l)ehind. Both products are then bleached to deprive them of their yellow colour. Stearine is likewise procured from the oil that is extracted from the kernels. In the account of a late voyage up the river Niger in Africa, we are informed, that palm oil is produced in immense quantities by the negroes about the town of Eboa, and is collected in small gourds, from which it is emptied into puncheons; and that it may be purchased there for about four shillings per ton. In 1808, the import did not exceed one or two hundred tons per annum: it is now nearly 14,000 tons, having been trebled in the last eight years. The increase in the quantity of palm oil procm-ed by the negi-oes for exportation proves their industi'ious dispositions. 604. Vegetable wax. A species of wax exists ready formed in many vegetables. The varnish on the leaves of some trees consists of it, as also that on the skins of plums and other fruits. It is found likewise in the juices of many trees, which yield it so abun- dantly that wax is thus collected and employed for making candles. 605. Myrtle-berry wax is a vegetable substance, intenuediate between wax and fixed oil, which becomes concrete at the ordinary temperature of this climate, and is used for making candles in Louisiana, and other parts of North America. It is the produce of the Myrica cerlfera, known familiarly by the name of the candle-berry myrtle. The tree grows to the height of from four to twelve or eighteen feet, being tallest in the warmer regions : it has a considerable resemblance to the common myrtle. The seeds, which are of the size of a pepper-corn, grow in large bunches, and are coated with wax that ap- proaches to the nature of bees' wax, though a distinct substance. The fniit ripens in November or December ; and being stripped from the branches, it is thrown into large iron pots containing water, which is boiled as long as any waxy matter continues to rise. The melted wax, or vegetable tallow, is then skimmed off, and is re-melted and clarified. Its appearance, when cold, is much like that of bees' wax ; but its colour is a dirty green. When formed into candles, it is generally mixed with about one fourth of its weight of tallow. It gives a clear and steady light, nearly equal to wax candles : it never gutters, and, while it is burning, produces an extremely pleasant balsamic odour. This substance is prepared for commerce along the Canadian lakes. One of the best of these shrubs will yield near seven pounds of berries ; and four pounds of these will produce one pound of wax. The candles are dearer than tallow, but cheaper than wax. They can be bleached quite white by chlorine, and an agreeable soap is also made from the wax. 606. The Piney, or tallow tree of India and China (Croton sebiferum') has supplied for ages the inhabitants of these countries with a material for candles. The tree much resembles the pear tree ; and it is the fruit that affords a combustible substance, which partakes of the nature of wax and of oil; and, from its appearance, may not be inaptly termed a tallow. The method of preparing this material is simply to boil the fruit in water, when the tallow is soon found to rise to the surface in a melted state, and on cooling forms a solid cake. Thus obtained, the piney tallow (piney is the native name of the tree that produces it) is generally white, sometimes yellow, greasy to the touch, with some degree of waxiness, almost tasteless, and has a rather agreeable odour. It melts at a temperature of 97^°, and consequently remains solid in tlie climate of India, in which respect it differs from palm or cocoa-nut oil. Wrapped up in folds of blotting paper, and submitted to strong pressure, scarcely any oil or elaine is expressed to imbue the inmost fold. Its tenacity and solidity are such, that when cast in a rounded form ol nine pounds weight, the force of two strong men was not suflicicnt to cut it asunder with a fine iron wire ; and even with a saw, there was considerable difficulty in eflFecting a di- vision. When manufactured into candles, it comes with facility from the moulds, thus differing from wax, which does not readily admit of being cast. It gives as bright a light as tallow, and has an advantage over that material in being free from unpleasant smell, and in not emitting a disagreeable odour when extinguished. It unites in all proportions with wax, spermaceti, and with tallow, and forms compounds with the two former, inter- mediate in their melting points. It may be imported into this country at less than one fourth the price of wax ; and, although it does not possess all the advantages of that substance, it is considerably sujjo- rior to animal tallow. It is in use only in the town of Mangalore (province of Canara). and is there employed medicinally as an external application for bruises and rheumatic pains : and likewise, when melted with the resin of the same tree, it is used as a substi- tute for tar in paying the bottoms of boats. 607. A liqht yrccn vegetable wax is common on the Malabar coast, which is easily blanched, and gives a beautiful light; and it is thought it might be imported with advan- tage. . 608. A mineral wax, called ozocerite, found at the foot of the Carpathian mountains, is