Book XXVI. 1188 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. a cominon, but not very correct expression. When the children enter it, with its fresh- ness it should brace their young nerves, perhaps relaxed by the pent-up air of their sleep- ing room, and they will appear in physical happiness to resemble all other young animals, free and sportive. But let them be brought out of one heated and close room into another, and they will evince all the lassitude of which bodily fatigue would occasion them, and that depressed state of their animal spirits which real weakness would cause. Such temporary effects of close-heated rooms would cease to be transient if the cause were to continue : settled indisposition and debility would ensue. 7028. Yet, desirable as fresh air is, there are some precautions to be observed in admitting it into children's rooms. To continued draughts of air no children should be exposed, unless they are running about the room, or in some way actively engaged. While sleeping in their cribs, or sitting down, they should be always sheltered from streams of air. When awakening from sleep (often in a state of perspiration) any sudden check occurring to them from a current of cold air might bring on some inflammatory attack of the lungs or bowels. 7029. In foggy or rainy weather, nursery windows should be kept closed. In such a state of the weather the admission of air to children's rooms must be through open doors instead of open windows. Also in the winter, at three o'clock in the afternoon, should every nursery window in day or sleeping room be closed. Night air cannot be safely admitted into nurseries scarcely at any time of the year. Children should not be per- mitted to sleep in smoky rooms, nor in rooms in which there are no open chimneys. The difficulty of ventilating the latter rooms is great. The air is gradually vitiated, and must be breathed several times, causing feelings of languor and general depression, and operating as a powerful and hurtful sedative to the animal system. See Book III. " On Ventilation." 7030. The temperature of nurseries is another point requiring regulation. In nurseries, extremes of heat or cold are equally to be avoided. Excess of heat in the air of rooms in which children chiefly live causes in them relaxation of the skin, irritation in the nervous system, extreme susceptibility to cold, and in the end, general bodily debility. Heat constantly acting on the human frame is said to be more destructive to its vital powers than any other external agent. Sometimes children are suffered to remain, perhaps to sleep, in rooms recently scoured, or in which quantities of wet linen are hung to dry before large fires. The evaporation from the wet floors or linen going on more rapidly in an over-heated room than in one of lower temperature, still more debilitating effects may be looked for than the heat without the moisture would have produced. A little moisture in a hot room may not be objectionable—it prevents the air from becoming too dry ; but in excess, damp adds to the nervous exhaustion caused by over-heated air, and renders children who live in such a state of the air, not only more susceptible to cold, but even more liable to the diseases incidental to childhood, which are all more or less of an inflammatory kind. 7031. Excess of cold, on opposite grounds, is not without danger to children. Great heat over-stimulates, excessive cold depresses, their nervous energies. The glands of children, who cannot take the vigorous exercise which adults may do, become by severe cold inactive and humid, and the fluids of the body all but stagnant; hence chilblains occur, (see " Chilblains,") with other more serious diseases. These observations, if just, render the temperature of nurseries an important point in their management. The temperature recommended for the sleeping apartments of children is from 60° to 66° of Fahrenheit. In a lower temperature than 60°, the life of a very young infant could hardly be sustained. Living in a much higher temperature, its system would be fc({ a time stimulated, and in the end debilitated. 7032. To cleanliness in nurseries great attention should be paid, both as it regards the health of children and the habits to be formed in them. Nxirseries should be swept daily; damp tea leaves sprinkled on the floors before they are swept prevent the dust from i-ising much above the floor and settling on the furniture. Children, young infants especially, should be removed into other rooms while any sweeping in their nurseries is going on. It cannot be good for them to breathe air filled with particles of dust, nor are the eyes of infants uninjured if exposed to it. 7033. Nurseries in very damp or cold weather, or in winter, should not be scoured weekly ; instead of which the floor should be merely wiped over with a damp flannel, and then rubbed with a hard brush. No children should remain in rooms damp with scour- ing, for reasons already stated. 7034. Bedsteads and cradles should be kept free of dust, and particularly the floors under them. Fleas or other insect annoyances increase whenever this cleanly process is neglected, and iis they often cause chiMren to be fi-etf'ul, from the irritation their bites occasion, any neglect in daily coIlecliii;j and removing the dust from beneath bedsteads and drawers should never be permitted. 7035. Children's bedding, blankets, and sheets should be exposed daily to an open window in fine weather, or to a fire in the winter. Bed linen should be changed at least once a