Book V. 192 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. chair bottoms, for which purpose it is first dyed a deep black. The satin manner of ■weaving it is now most generally adopted, as the most agreeable and the most durable. Hair is a very lasting substance, not being liable to decay through ordinary causes. It is insoluble in water, but is acted upon and dissolved by alkalies; much soap, of course, injures it. Sect. X. IIOKN. 867. The horns of cattle are used for a variety of purposes in furniture (is well as dress: those of oxen are the largest and best. Horn differs essentially from bone in its constitu- tion and properties. It contains little gelatine, whereas bone contains a great deal; and it consists chiefly of condensed albumen, with a very small portion of gelatine and phospliate of lime. Consequently horn cannot be dissolved by heat, though it may be softened by it; and it may then be readily bent to any shape, and made to adhere to other pieces of horn in the same state, or pressed out into thin sheets. These properties belong to the hollow horns of the ox, goat, sheep, &c., and the hoofs of quadrupeds ; the shell of the tortoise is nearly of the same quality ; but the horns of the stag are very diflerent, being composed chiefly of gelatine, and intermediate between horn and bone : they are soluble to a jelly in boiling water. The horns of the bull and cow, sold by the tanner who had purchased the raw hides, consist of two parts ; an outward horny case, and an inward conical substance, somewhat intermediate between indurated hair and bone, and termed the core. 868. The first process in preparing horns for various purposes, consist m ss^axaxing the horn itself from the included core, to which it is attached by a thin membrane; this membrane is destroyed by macerating the whole in water for about a month, and then the horn is easily separated by a blow. The horny exterior is then cut into three portions. The lowest of these, next the root of the horn, is softened, flattened, and made into combs. The middle of the horn, after being flattened by heat, and having its transparency im- proved by oil, is split iuto thin layers, and forms a substitute for glass in common lanterns. The tip of the born, being solid, is used by the makers of knife-handles, and of the tops of whips and umbrellas, and for other similar purposes. The interior or core of the horn is boiled down in water ; a large quantity of fat rises to the surface during this operation : this is put aside, and sold to the makers of yellow soap ; the liquid itself is used as a kind of glue, and is purchased by cloth-dressers for stiffening. The insoluble substance which remains behind is then sent to the mill, and, being ground down, is sold to the farmers for manure, or is burnt to ashes used in making cupels for chemists. 869. Horn is prepared for lanterns as follows :— It is first softened by hot water, and then over a gentle fire generally made of the stalks of furze, which enables it to be slit length- wise on one side, and kept expanded flat by a pair of tongs while it is placed in a press between iron plates that are greased. Here they remain till they are cold. They are next soaked in water, divided into laminae, which are scraped and pared down to the requisite thinness and transparency, with a large knife worked horizontally on a block. Afterwards these thin plates are polished with willow charcoal and rotten stone. The Chinese are remarkably skilful in preparing this thin horn, aS| may be seen by a large globular lantern in the Museum of the India House, about four feet in diameter, composed entirely of small plates of coloured and painted horn. Horn lanterns were also used by the ancients ; for we find one mentioned in the Amphitryo of Plautus, and in an epigram of Martial: Pliny likewise speaks of lanterns and various ornamental articles made of dyed and painted horn. 870. In Holland, France and Germany, they make use of Hie parings and clippings of horn and tortoise-shell, in the manufacture of snuff-boxes, and a variety of elegant articles and toys. They first soften the material in boiling water, so as to permit its being pressed in iron moulds, which are heated in order to imite the whole into one mass. Care must be taken that the heat is not so great as to scorch the material; and grease must be carefully avoided, as that prevents their union. 871. An artificial horn is made in France from the gelatine obtained from bones, which is tanned by the same process as is used in making leather. When it is quite dry and hard, this assumes the appearance of horn, and it is coloured to imitate tortoise-shell. It is used for the same pur])ose as these substances, and when softened by being boiled in water with potash, it is formed into any shape, and the figures are preserved by drying them between moulds. It is also inlaid, when in the soft state, with gold, silver, and other metals. 872. Larqe combs, ornamented with open work, are used for the hair. The tortoise-shell, or horn to imitate it, is first softened by boiling in hot water, till it can he easily cut by a .steel die. Horn is coloured to imitate tortoise-shell, for combs and inlaid work, in the following manner: —A compound is made by boiling together, forhalf an hour, pearl-ash,