654 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. which flows almost spontaneously ; the pulp, now called the cheese, being then removed from the press and broken to pieces, should be exposed to the air by laying it on a coarse but clean canvas for twelve hours, turning it over from time to time with wooden forks or rakes. By this exposure the pulp will become brown, and being then pressed by a gradually increasing pressure till all the juice is extracted, will give out not only a deeper coloured, but considerably sweeter juice than that which flowed at the first pressure. In the usual cai-eless mode of manufacturing cyder, the juice, as it flows from the press, being intermixed with the finer parts of the pulp which are forced through the interstices of the hair cloth by the action of the press, is immediately transferred to the fermenting tun. This, however, is a bad practice ; for the liquor will be found to ferment more moderately, and to become fine with more certainty, if deprived of this pulpy fibrous matter, by running it through a common hair sieve, or through a cask with a false bottom covered with hair cloth ; it may thus be obtained as clear as the wort that is produced from malt. 3683. If the cijder-maker is desirous of viaking different qualities of cyder, he will have ground and pressed each variety of apples separately ; and, in general, it will be most pro- fitable to make at least two kinds, a best and second, otherwise all the apples are mingled together. Some also keep apart that portion of the juice which drains without pressure, for making a superior cyder. 3684. The marc which remains after pressure, if infused in boiling water, and allowed to remain for two days, will aSbrd a juice that, when fermented, will make a very inferior kind of cyder, formerly called cyderhin and used as a common drink for labourers : at present it is called water cyder. 3685. Tlie apple juice is now to be feitnented. The best vessels in which to carry on the first fermentation are casks set on end, the heads being taken out and replaced by a light movable cover. These, being filled with juice to within four or five inches of the top, are to have their covers put on till the fermentation has commenced, which, in general, will be in from one to four days, according to the temperature and the richness of the liquor. Sometimes, in cold unfavourable weather, the juice will remain for a fortnight or longer without fermenting ; in such cases, sometimes artificial means are employed to produce it. Some persons put into the liquor a toast dipped in yeast, which is efficacious ; a better method, however, is to take from two to three gallons of liquor from each cask, and to put the whole into a tub placed in a warm room ; in a few hours fermentation will come on, and then the liquor is to be returned to the casks. As soon as the fermentation has established itself, a scum begins to collect on the sur- face of the liquor, which should be carefully removed every morning and evening, the cover of the casks being kept on in the meantime, as it is of great importance that this stage of the fermentation should be carried through as quickly as possible. When the liquor has ceased throwing up scum, or nearly so, but while it is still giving off' small bubbles of carbonic acid gas, the primary fermentation is concluded. The time which this occupies varies from twelve to thirty-six hours. The completion of the fermentation may be known by the clearness of the liquor, in consequence of the subsidence of the flocks, or muddiness, and by its having acquired a sharp vinous taste. 3686. It is safer to rack off' the cyder too soon, than to suffer it to remaiii too long. By the latter, it would certainly pass into the acetous fermentation, and a quantity of vinegar would be formed ; by the former, the chief defect would be want of strength, from defi- ciency of the alcohol. Cyder, however, is not valued principally for the strength or spirit it contains, but for the agreeable mixture of this with sweetness, sourness with sub- acerbity ; and so that these qualities are obtained, the degree of strength is of little import- ance. The most desirable thing is to have sufficient carbonic acid g!is to saturate the water of the apple juice, and to have the liquor sprightly, in a state intermediate between bottled cyder and draught C3'der as it is usually met with. Such cyder, when left exposed on the table, does not become vapid, but continues to ferment slightly, and the chief objection to it in this state is want of clearness, a defect that offends the eye more than the taste. In some parts of the world it is customary to drink it in preference before the fermentation has been quite finished, and while it is still turbid. 3687. The racking or fllfring of the fermented liquor into casks is best effected in the following manner. For every cask of liquor take two pecks of perfectly sweet bran ; scald it in two siiccessive waters, in order to wash out all the soluble matter of the bran, and press it thoroughly ; then dissolve one ounce of alum in a pail of boiling water, and pour it on the bran ; lot the mixture remain for six or eight hours, and then strain olT the water, .md press the bran as before. The bran thus prepared is to be stirred into the fermenting liquor, and the mixture is to be strained through a cask with false bottom ; the first runnings, being rather more turbiil, arc to be returned, but as soon as the liquor comes through moderately cle.nr, it is to be reserved. In this state it will be found agree.ible to the taste, and considerably sweet; and the manufacturer may now. according to his pleasure, make of it either stm-ct or dry cyder, bollM, or in cask. 3688. To produce the best sweet cyder for bottling, it is essential that the fermentation should not be complete, but that some of the saccharine matter should remain uneon-