WATER. 527 Chap. I. appear to have occurred to the early navigators, -who were often distressed for want ot fresh water, when they might liave supplied themselves by this method. The ancient Greeks, indeed, who were unacquainted with the art of distillation, are said to have pro- cured fresh water at sea by suspending large sponges in the mouths of brazen vessels in which salt water was boiled ; when the sponges were saturated, they squeezed out the fresh water. This certainly may be regarded as the infant state of distillation ; but the quantity of water procured in this manner must have been very small. The discovery of the process of distilling by the moderns put mankind in possession of a new power. The first account we have of the obtaining fresh water at sea by distillatinri is in tlie reign of Queen Eliza- beth, when it was put in practice by Sir. K. Hawkins. Experiments were afterwards made by Hales, Lister, and various philosopliers, and the practicability of the method established. M. de Bougainville, in his voyage round the world, derived great assistance from it; and Dr. Irving received, in 1770, a parliamentary reward of 5000/. for introducing it into the British navy. Lord Mulgrave tried it with success In 1773, in his voyage to the North Pole, since which time it has been perfectly understood. The method practised by Dr. Irving was this : — the ship's kettle was divided into two parts by a vertical partition ; in one of these divisions was the soup or meat to be cooked, and in the other, sea water to be dis- tilled. The same fire boiled both, and therefore, at the same time that provisions were dressing, fresh water was distilling. Three-fourths only of the sea water was distilled off, since, when the brine became strong, the distilled water had a disagreeable taste from a partial decomposition of the brine. The further distillation was also found to iiyure the boilers. This construction has, since that time, been varied in many ways, but the general principle must always be the same. All that is necessary is some method of condensing the steam which is raised by the boiling of salt water, in the manner of a still ; and the particular form and construction of the apparatus may be varied to suit the place where it is used. On board ship, advantage is generally taken of the kettles for cooking, and the steam from these is condensed with little expense and trouble. In long voyages, and even where there has been no particular scarcity of water, it has been thought prudent to employ apparatus of various constructions for this purpose, to lessen the quantity of water taken in, and to provide against accidents. 2952. Sut it is to be observed that, although distilled sea water is all but fresh, and will answer for washing or cooking, yet it is not completely so. It contains a little muriatic acid, and is not very fit for drinking. A little chalk or alkali added neutralises the acid ; still it is not found so good as to supersede the necessity of having fresh water from the land. Sect. IX. STAGNANT WATER. 2953. By the term stagnant vie should understand water simply in a state of perfect rest, or altogether without any current, whether it be a lake or a small pond, and whether the water be clean and pure, or very foul. We mention this the more particularly because many persons mistake the meaning of the term, and suppose that the word stagnant applies only to water that has already been rendered foul by remaining in that condition. Strictly speaking it is the state of rest, and not its quality, that constitutes the stagnation of water. 2954. But stagnant water exposed to the air, if ever so pure at first, will not long remain so; for it soon becomes inhabited by myriads of animalculse, and aquatic insects of a great number of species, many of which pass some of the stages of their lives beneath its sur- face, and their exuvife or remains become putrefied, and contaminate the fluid. The vegetable kingdom also here extends its influence. There are a great number of plants, many of which, called conferva, are so minute as to be scarcely observable by the unas- sisted eye, which propagate in still water, and often serve as food to the insect tribes. Thus stagnant water, like every portion of the superficial part of the earth, teems with life; and the accumulation of the dead remains of animals and vegetables communicate to it properties highly dfeleterious. We stated that water perfectly pure is incapable of change by itself, whether in rest or motion ; but no water, however pure at first, if kept perfectly stagnant and exposed to the atmosphere, can continue long in a wholesome state, or fit to be employed in preparing food, from the causes just stated. Boiling and filtration may, indeed, correct much of these bad qualities; still it can never be so safely used as running water. These observations apply to reservoirs of aU kinds when employed in arrange- ments for supplying water, if freely exposed to the air and light. 2955. Stagnant water has often a greenish colour, which is derived from an infinity of minute plants that can only be seen by the microscope : much of this will be retained by the filter, but some will also pass through, as well as part of the mucilaginous juices of plants and animal fluids, and thus the results of putrefaction will probably remain, not- withstanding every care bestowed in filtering; but to what extent it is not easy to say. The transparency alone of filtered water, therefore, will not form a complete test of its purity. See " Filtration," Sect. X. 2956. Tlie water of lakes and ponds is, properly, stagnant; but these may vary exceedingly, according to circumstances. Lakes are generally supplied from streams and brooks, which flow into them, some of which have been produced by rain, and others have risen from springs. Here much will depend upon the size of these pieces of water, and the nature of the bottom. The water of deep lakes is agitated by the wind, and is not so liable to have vegetables growing in it. The water of large lakes is generally very pure ; but some contain so much salt as to be called salt lakes. It is in shallow water that the numerous