Book VII. 390 ON FOOD. SuBSECT. 2. — Varieties of C/ieene. The principal vai'ieties of cheese used in England are the following : — 1991. Cheshire cheese.—Tliis cheese is famous all over Europe for its rich quality and fine piquant flavour. It is made of entire new milk, the cream not being taken oif." The cheeses are generally of very large size, usually about sixty pounds weight, and some have been made of one, or even two, hundredweight. Each cheese is usually made of the produce of one day's milking from herds of from 100 to 200 cows, who feed in rich pastures on some of the finest laud in England. Their excellence must be attributed to the goodness of the milk, Iheir size and age, and the skill employed in the manufacture. The colour is not entirely natural ; but a yellow tint is given by arnoUo, marigolds, or carrots. It is said that some increase the richness and mellowness of the cheese by adding beef suet, or any other wholesome and sweet fat well clai'ified, which is poured into and mixed with the curd. 1992. Gloucesler cheese is nmch milder in its taste than the Cheshire. There are two kinds of Gloucester cheese, single and double. Sirujle Gloucester is 'made of skimmed milk, or of the milk deprived of half the cream ; of course it is not very rich, bnt is often of good flavour. Double Gloucester is a cheese that pleases almost every palate : it is made of the whole mUk and cream, and is a fat cheese, usually the kind employed for toast- ing, though the single often toasts very well. These cheeses are made of various sizes, the single generally eight to the cwt., and very thin, and the double four to the cwt., and at least twice as thick. As the two kinds sometimes resemble each other considerably, some honest farmers stamp the figure of a heart upon the single Gloucester, to distinguish it from the double. The true characteristics of Gloucester cheese consist in its great richness, together with the mildness of its flavour, and that smooth waxy texture which makes it cut, even in thin slices, without crumbling, as Cheshire cheese is apt to do. Its oily matter is retained in toasting, by softening without being burned. 1993. Stillo7i cheese. —This, from its peculiar richness and flavour,.has been called the Parmesan of England. Its name is derived from having been first made at Stilton in Leicestershire, though it is now manufactured very generally throughout the counties of Cambridge, Huntingdon, Rutland, and Northampton. It is made by adding the cream of one day to the entire milk of the next. The cheeses are all of a small size, from six to eight pounds weight, and are of a cylindrical form, made in a deep vat, and are not considered to be sufficiently mellow until they are two years old, nor ripe until they exhibit spots of blue in the interior, marking the commencement of decay. It is said that some keep them in warm damp cellars to accelerate the ripening. The blue part is of a peculiar nature, different, it is said, from the common blue mould of cheese. The decay should not be advanced beyond a certain point. A variety of Stilton, but not so rich or of so fine a flavour as the last, is made in a net, and of the form of a pine cone, the net impressing lines on its surface. 1994. Cottenham cheese, made near a town of that name in Cambridgeshire, is a thicker kind of cream cheese than Stilton. Its superior delicacy and flavour are attributed to the fragrant herbage on the commons where the cows are pastured. 1995. Sage cheese, called also green cheese, is made chiefly in the vales of Gloucester and Wiltshire, by colouring some curd with bruised sage, marigold leaves, and parsley, and mixing this with some uncoloured curd ; the whole is then made into a cheese, which, of course, exhibits a mottled appearance. Among the Romans it was a practice to flavour cheese with thyme and other sweet herbs ; and this custom was continued during the middle ages. We are told that the Emperor Charlemagne arriving at a bishop's palace on a fast day could get nothing but bread and cheese. The prelate observing the king picking out with his knife small specks, which he mistook for impurities in the cheese, informed his guest that they were parsley seeds. The monarch tasted them and liked them so much that he requested the prelate to send him an annual supply of cheese prepared in this manner. 1996. Chedder cheese is not exclusively made at the village of Chedder, in the 5Iendip Hills, Somersetshire. A great deal of the same kind is also made round Bridgewater, and in the marshes round Glastonbury. The cheese is peculiar, much resembling Parmesan ; it has a very agreeable taste and flavour, and has a spongy appearance, the eyes being filled with a limpid and rich, but not rancid, oil. The cheeses are generally large. But little of the prime Chedder cheese is made, that generally sold for it not being genuine, and is inferior. 1997. Brickbat cheese.—There is nothing remarkable in this except its form. It is made by turning with rennet a mixture of cream and new milk. The curd is put into a ^yoodcn vessel the shape of a brick, and is then pressed and dried in the usual way. It is best made is September, and is ready in six months. 1998. Dunlop cheese is famous in Scotland: it is so called from the parish of Duul('|i