93 IHAP. III. ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. iitely read at the Society of Arts. The first is by Mr. J. Sylvester " On the Construction '' Flues and Fire-places ;" and is thus stated in the Atheneum. The object of this plan is to obviate the in- conveniences arising from the necessity in- curred by the ordinary method of building flues, of sweeping or cleaning every flue into the fire-place of the apartments to which it be- longs ; and also to avoid the nuisance of daily carrying away the ashes through the furnished apartments. To remedy these evils, Mr Syl- vester proposes to build every flue perfectly vertical, each flue for every fire-place, in all the stories, not only to ascend to the chimney top on the outside, but also to be continued down- wards into the basement, in one line from top to bottom, the fire-places or grates not being under the flues, but in front of them, on the surface of the wall, surrounded by a chimney piece, as a decorative piece of furniture. The smoke from the fire is made to pass through an aperture into the flue at the back, which when the fire is not in use, can be closed by an air- tight sliding door, while another opening into the flue, under the fire grate, admits of the ashes, dust, &c. being cleared away into the descending or tail flue, whence it falls to the bottom of the flue in the basement story. By this means it is merely necessary, when a chimney requires sweeping, to close the door at the top of the i^rate, and the sweep may go into the basement story, open the door at the bottom of tlihe descending flue, and take away the soot and ashes there collected. He may then, hoy the use of the machine, brush down from top to bottom, any small portions of soot that ninay hang to the flue, when the whole can be removed, without the slightest interference »irith the room to which the flue belongs, unperceived by its inmates. The whole of the Hues in a stack, may be swept at the same time with as little inconvenience as one, since ihhey all descend into one chamber, and open at the same level. 403. Another improvement has been suggested by Dr. Atkins. He proposes to place a series ibf three layers of wire gauze, four inches apart in the aperture of the chimney, the first laayer at the distance of eighteen inches, or two feet above the fire, the distance being re- i^ulated according to the nature of the fuel used. Each layer consists of twelve wire rjauzes, one fourth of an inch apart. The smoke which ascends will deposit its soot on hhe wires, and their temperature will, by their proximity to the fire, be sufiiciently high CO effect its combustion. 404. Others again have proposed to fix some permanent apparatus in the flue, by means of which a brush could be carried from top to bottom at any time. We have seen con- trivances of this kind already ; but it is too soon to pronounce upon their general eflS- liency. However, it ssems quite possible in a new house to contrive the flues so that khey might be swept at any time by the ordinary servants, or by any person engaged to do such work. The flues should be circular, and bricks have been made for building them so. Fie- 79. CHAP. III. ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. Sect. I. WOOD. 405. T7ie most ancient fuel was undoubtedly wood. It appears that most countries, before they were peopled, were in great part covered with forests, as we see in America at pre- sent ; and the cutting down these to make room for cultivation supplied, at first, the necessary fuel. In ancient times, wood was universally used in England for this purpose, as it still is on a great part of the continent of Europe. The destruction of our forests by varioiw causes began to be felt as a serious evil about three centuries ago, when, for-