1196 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. 7080. Sleep, to be sulutanj, should be naturally procured. During dentition, or by occasional disturbances of the alimentary function the sleep of young children is some- times disturbed. The irritation becoming excessive, a medical man may see occasion to administer small and suitable opiates, and thereby sleep is obtained which may be abso- lutely requisite. But as an habitual or frequent measure, no medical man in the case of children would advise opiates to be resorted to. The immediate but transient effect of opiates on an infant is to still its nervous irritability, the subsequent consequence is to increase it as soon as the power of the opiate has passed off. When opiates are frequently given, a child's muscular vigour decreases, its countenance becomes pallid, the growth of the body is checked, the whole system is debilitated : convulsions sometimes ensue. These symptoms are here stated as warnings to mothers and nurses who, from ignorance of their danger may be incautious in administering opiates to children ; such as Dalby's carmina- tive, the American soothing syrup, paregoric elixir, medicines which may be occasionally safely given, but not frequently without serious risk. 7081. Tlie best plan for getting children to sleep, is by laying them down to rest at stated hours, when, from habit, the inclination to sleep becomes the strongest. A child accus- tomed to be laid down awake is seldom restless or fretful, but often closes its eyes im- mediately on being laid down, and is asleep at once. When any deviation from this occurs, and the child instead of composing itself is restless, it may be inferred that some- thing is amiss with it, that it is in pain or otherwise indisposed. Its state should be examined into, and judged of as well as it can be, before any attempt is renewed to make it fall asleep. When a child is indisposed, it may be difficult to keep it in its crib or get it to sleep in the usual mode. It must then be taken on the knee, and gently soothed to sleep by the motion of the nurse's knees. But as a habit, this rocking to sleep is not to be encouraged. When from the age of a child it becomes necessary to break through it, it often proves a painful struggle to both child and nurse. 7082. A child's position in bed is of importance. Its pillow or bolster should be scarcely raised above the surface of the bed (see Med. Art. on the "Spine"). An infant should be laid down to sleep on its side with its mouth and nostrils clear of the bed clothes, as well as the whole of the face, for while currents of air should be guarded from a child's head, there should be free admission of air to its mouth. And if infants incline to sleep better on one side than the other, the nurse, observing it, should endeavour to counteract the habit by laying it down to sleep on the alternate sides. From the day of its birth this precaution should be employed. 7083. Infants require warmth in their bed-clothes, and will neither sleep comfortably nor for any length of time, unless it be afforded them ; but the degree of warmth allowed must not be such as to cause perspiration, and which would weaken and render a child too susceptible of cold. No doubt an infant will sleep more soundly on the nurse's arm than in its own bed ; and a sickly delicate child is often comforted, nourished, and lulled by the warmth so imparted to it. The infants of the poor have always this comfort, whatever else they may want, many delicate infants in the houses of the poor would perish but for the warmth thus imparted to them during the night. For the infants of the affluent, who can envelope them in flannels and blankets and keep them in apartments of a regulated temperature, there is less weight of argument in favour of their sleeping on the nurse's arm ; and some seasons there are which render it undesirable. It frequently induces profuse perspiration in the child, and sometimes, especially when the face is covered, brings on that relaxed state of the mucous membrane which occasions the complaint, called by nurses the smfffles, from the disagreeable noise made by the child in breathing through the nostrils. 7084. An infant lying on the arm of its mother or nurse is in no danger of being over- laid; but if by any movement of the nurse the child's head slips off the arm during her sleep, very distressing consequences may ensue. If her body press against and cover the mouth and nostrils of the infant, its struggles may be too feeble to rouse her from sleep, and its suffocation would then soon occur. 7085. Children of two or three years of age will require, if they are healthy, less bed- clothing than during their earlier infancy; their circulation is become stronger and quicker, and perspiration more easily induced in them, which, if frequent and profuse, is extremely debilitating; yet insufficient covering in cold weather would be equally pre- judicial to them, and would prevent them from sleeping soundly. SuBSECT. 3. — Exercise of Infancy and Childhoods Exercise during infancy and childhood is the next subject of importance, to which maternal attention should be given. 7086. The muscular organs on which bodily activity depends, and on activity, strength in the limbs, and lieallh in the functions of life, are themselves acted upon, invigorated by