799 I Chap. IV. PRESERVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. To assist and improve the flavour of the pickle and to correct its sourness, various I pungent and aromatic spices are generally added, as pepper, pimento, ginger, capsicums, I cloves, mace, or mustard. For the preparation of acid pickleS, the vinegar prepared from iwood is by some preferred to common malt vinegar, as it contains no mucilage, which rrenders common vinegar liable to spontaneous decay, and prevents the pickles made with i it from keeping well. Another advantage in the wood vinegar is, that it can be had of a igreater degree of strength. Some direct that the pickles should not be boiled in the vinegar, as that would evapo- rrate its strength, and that the best way is to parboil them first in the brine and spices, 3 and then taking them out to get cold before they are put into the vinegar, which should the warmed so as to simmer but not boil. The spices may be simmered with the winegar. Pickles should be kept carefully from the air, and covers of India-rubber can tnow be had for tying over the jars, instead of bladder or leather; these resist much 1 better the action of the acid. 4580. The following are examples of the methods usualli/ emploi/ed hi pickling. 4581. To pickle gherkins or young cucumbers.—These should be of the size of the linger; if smaller, they thave not attained their flavour, and if much larger, they are probably seedy. Puncture them with a needle, land throw over them some dry salt; when this dissolves, in a day or two, pour it off, and add a fresh quantity, '. which allow to remain for a couple of days ; then take tliem out, and let thera drain on a cloth. Afterwards ■■ wipe them, put them into jars, and pour on them boiling vinegar in which ginger, black pepper, sliced horse- r radish, mace, cloves, and allspice are infused, with shallots or garlic if agreeable. In two days drain off the 1 vinegar, which boil and pour on the cucumbers. If this process be repeated three or four times they will I become perfectly green and plump. French be.ans may be pickled in the same manner. 4.582. To pickle onicms.—Take the small buttoned onions, remove the external peel, and throw them into I milk and water, in which plenty of salt has been dissolved ; set them on the fire, and when they have boiled, I pour off the liquor and drain the onions on a sieve. When cold put them into glasses, and cover them with c distilled vinegar prepared in the following manner : Put into a quart bottle some sliced ginger, bruised pepper, and mace ; fill it so completely up with distilled vinegar that when it is corked there shall be as little air as [ possible. When this has stood three or four days to receive the flavour of the spices, render the cork secure I by wire, and apply over it a luting composed of lime and white of egg. Put this bottle in a saucepan with (cold water over the fire, and when it has boiled about ten minutes, remove it in the saucepan and let it there I continue till cold. Pour some of this vinegar cold on the onions, and they will keep for many months. 4.n83. To pickle red cabbage—The cabbage should be chosen firm, but the largest are not the best. Trim i off the outside leaves, and quarter the cabbages ; take out the large stalk and slice the quarters, sprinkle a I little salt between the layers ; if too much is used the colour will be injured. Let the whole remain till next V day, and shake it, that all the brine may run off; put it into jars with a hot pickle of vinegar, an ounce of t black pepper and allspice to each quart of vinegar ; also half an ounce of ginger, horse-radish, and salt, two ( capsicums, and a drachm of cayenne. Garlic, esch.ilots, broccoli, and cauliflowers may be pickled in thesame \ way. The cabbage is at first rather blue or purple ; the red colour which it acquires is in consequence ofthe ; acid, which has the property of turning all vegetable blues red. This red colour being admired, to heighten i it, some add a little cochineal, which is harmless ; others add some beet-root. 4.584. Pickling tnalnuis Take green walnuts, rim a needle into each in several places, and throw plenty ( of salt over them. In three or four days pour off the liquor that has been produced, and add a fresh quantity ' of salt to extract more of their juice ; ni about eight days they will become brown and tender. Take them ' out and let them drain for two days. Arrange lliem in a jar and ponr over them boiling hot vinegar con- : taining spices, as ginger, black pepper, cloves, and some garlic if approved. Leave the jar uncovered as long \ as any steam arises from them. In two days boil again the vinegar that covers them, and pour it on as before. ' Wheii cold, secure them from the access of air by a bung covered with bladder, and tied over with leather. '. Most pickle vinegar, after the vegetables are u.-ied, may be turned to use, walnut pickle in particular ; it may I be boiled up, putting to each quart four or six anchovies chopped small, together with a large table-spoonful 1 of chopped eschalots. Let this stand a few days till it is quite clear, then pour off and bottle. It is excellent I for sauce for hashes, fish, and various other dishes. 4.5H.'>. Ficcnlilli/, or Indian pickle White cabbages sliced, cauliflowers pulled to pieces and scalded, I radishes tujijied and tailed, French beans, celery in three inch lengths, shoots of elder peeled, clusters of 1 elder flowers unopened, all salted for two or three days, then mixed witli apples and cucumbers sliced, and a 1 large proportion of ginger, turmeric, long pepper, .and mustard seed, as the pickle is expected to be very warm; 1 the vinegar must also be tlie strongest that can be procured, and just sufficient to float the articles ; any other 1 Tegetables may be used at pleasure Gray. 4.586. Hot Pickle—Pick into moderately sized pieces a cauliflower, puncture some French beans, cut into t slices about an inch long some of the red part of a carrot, slice some heads of celery, and pieces of the white I part of a cabbage ; throw sutficient dry salt over them, which repeat a second time ; after which let them dry 1 m the sun for a couple of days : prepare the ordinary spices as before directed, to which add an ounce of . genuine c.iycnne pepper loosely tied up in a muslin rag; let this boil in the vinegar, and afterwards let it 1 remain in the jar witli the pickles. Boil the vinegar two or three times, and pour it on the pickles j if you 1 wish them of a yellow colour to resemble the India, add some turmeric to the pickle. 4587. As vinegar is a corrosive substance, capable of dissolving several metals, and 1 likewise some of the glazes of earthenware which contain lead, great care must be taken in ' selecting proper vessels to prepare and keep pickles in, otherwise dangerous consequences I may ensue from poisonous matter being introduced into the pickle from the action of the ; acid upon the vessels containing it. Pickles should never be made or kept in any vessel of I metal; for the vinegar will dissolve copper, and produce verdigris, a poisonous substance; : and it acts upon lead, forming acetate of lead, another poison ; and neither pewter, tin, 1 nor zinc are altogether safe : to say nothing of the inconvenience of having the vessels ' corroded. Iron is harmles.s, but is liable to be corroded by vinegar, though slightly. If < covered with a glaze containing no lead, it is perfectly safe. It is said that on the Continent they have invented pickling vessels of cast-iron, with a lining of thick glass ; when the. litpiid is in the vessel, the glass heats gradually and does not crack. The safest materials for pickling vessels are unghizetl earthenware, glass, porcelain, or earthenware ■ covered with a glaze containing no lead, such as stone-ware. It being thought a desirable quality in many pickles that the vegetables, such as samphire, gherkins, French beans. P<c.