Book XXV. 1166 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 6912. In a case of emergency \t is said that a decoction of the yellow flowers of the herb called " cheese rennet," or " yellow lady's bed-straw," which blossoms in July and August, will answer instead of rennet. The stomachs of lambs and pigs will likewise coagulate, but not nearly so well as those of the calf. 6913. In Holland, instead of rennet, they use a small quantity of muriatic acid for turn- ing mUk ; and it is said that it is the use of this that gives to Dutch cheese its peculiar pungent flavour. 6914. Colouring cheese is with us a very general custom. Cheese properly manu- factured from good milk, and at the proper season of the year, is always of a yellow cast; and hence the idea of excellence is attached to what is of that colour; and, when made for sale, it is always more or less coloured by artificial means. Turmeric, marigolds, and other materials were formerly used for this purpose ; but these have given way to Spanish arnotto, which is a preparation from the red pulp that covers the seeds of an American tree, the arnotto tree (^Bixa orellana. Linn.). This pulp is mixed in hot water, and, when allowed to subside, it is made into balls and dried. The usual manner of applying the arnotto is to dip a piece of the requisite weight in a bowl of milk, and rub it on a smooth stone until the milk assumes a deep red colour. This infusion without the sediment, which is separated by standing a little, is to be added to the milk of which cheese is intended to be made, in such quantity as will impart to the whole a bright orange colour, which will become the deeper in proportion to the age of the cheese. The addition of the arnotto in no way afiects the taste or smell. 6915. The milk intended for making cheese should be carefully passed through the sieve placed on the ladder over the cheese-tub, and, for the very best cheese, that produced at a single milking is preferable : when it is brought in wai'm from the cow it is easily turned by the rennet: if the warm milk of one milking be mixed with that of an earlier one, the whole will take longer timg to turn. 6916. The degree of heat of the milk most favourable for coagulation by rennet is from 85° to 90°, the natural heat at which it is drawn from the cow : if it is below 85°, the milk must be brought to that degree by some means. Some warm it over the fire, which is liable to burn or smoke it; others immerse the lower part of a vessel containing a portion of it into the copper of hot water, and mix this with the rest till the required temperature is obtained : and another method is to add some boiling water to the milk, to bring it to the required temperature, which is said to accelerate the coagulation. K the milk be not warm enough when the rennet is put into it, the curd will be tender, the cheese will never be firm, and will bulge out at the sides; and, if too hot, it will cause the cheese to swell or " heave," and become spongy, hard, di-y, and tasteless, because much of the richness has gone ofi' with the whey. In hot weather the milk in the cows' udders is liable to become very much agitated and heated by their rimniug about; and, if rennet be put to it in that state, the curd, instead of coming in one or two hours, will require three, four, or five hours, and wiU be so spongy, tough, and imperfect, as to be scarcely capable of being confined in the press or vat; and, when released from the press, it will heave or split, and be good for little. Whenever, therefore, the cows are discovered to be in this state, which occurs not unfre- quently dui-ing hot weather where cows are pastured in unsheltered grounds, or where water is not within their reach, it will be advisable to add some cold spring water to the milk as soon as it is brought into the dairy, until it arrives at the proper degree of heat 6917. To effect the coagulation of the milk, or, as it is called, to set the curd, the milk now in the tub has the proper quantity of rennet and colouring added to it. The proportions of these can only be regulated by experience and practice. If there is too little rennet, the milk will not turn ; if too much, the cheese will be apt to heave, as well as be rank and strong : and the same efi'ect will be produced if the rennet has been made with bad or foul materials. A handful or two of salt added previously to mixing the rennet will promote the coagulation. The proper quantity can only be regulated by practice. After all the materials are put into the tub, the whole is well stirred together ; a wooden coyer is put on the tub, and over that a woollen cloth is thrown; during the process the milk ought not to lose more than five or seven degrees of its original heat. The usual time of curdling is from an hour to two hours, during which time it is to be frequently exammed. If the dairy-woman supposes the milk to have been accidentally put in cooler than was intended, or that its coolness is the cause of its not curdling, hot water or hot milk may be poured into it, or hot water in a brass pan may be partially immerged in it to raise the temperature. This must, however, be done before the coagulation commences, for the formin"- of the curd must not be tampered with. If it has been set together too hot, the opposite means may be resorted to: but the more general practice is to suff'er the process to proceed, hot as it is, until the first quantity of whey is taken off", a part of which, being set to cool, is then returned into the tub to cool the curd. Within an hour and a half, as already mentioned, if all goes on well, the coagulation will be formed—a point which is determined by gently pressing the surface with the back of the hand, in which test expe- rience is the only guide.