S32 CONFECTIONERY FOR DESSERTS, ETC. Book XV lemon, and the whites of two eggs beaten to a froth and strained. Whisk these ingredients , ■well together, and with a paste-brush cover the cake with it. Set the cake in a cool oven to dry the iceing,.but not to discolour it; an hour will harden it. When cold let the cake be covered over with thin white paper, to preserve the delicacy of the iceing. ' 5435. Common plum cake. — The ingredients are : 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, \ lb. > of currants, | lb. of sugar, 1 oz. of citron and lemon peel, \ oz. of nutmeg or ginger, : 1 table-spoonful of good yeast, and 3 eggs. Set the flour as if for bread, with the yeast, * eggs (well beaten), and some sugar, mixed well together, and poured in the middle. Let j these ingredients stand before the fire until the yeast has worked its way into the flour; add the butter, beaten to a cream, the currants, sweetmeats, &c., and mix all thoroughly i together. Put the whole into a tin band, and set it on paper before the fire to rise ; put t' it when risen into the oven, and bake it for an hour and half, trying it with the knife H before it is taken completely out of the oven. jj 5436. A rich seed cake. —The ingredients are: 1 lb. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of e sifted sugar, 8 eggs, { oz. of powdered cinnamon and nutmeg, 1 oz. of carraway seeds, and lE 1 glass of sherry. Warm the flour before the fire; beat the butter to a cream, mixing o: the sugar, pounded and sifted with it, before any of the other ingredients, but not until fk the butter is brought to a fine cream. Beat separately the yolks and whites of the eggs, il and pour them into the cream ; mix together the flour and spices, and add the moist k ingredients, stirring all together for an hour. The lightness of cakes is improved by ^ thoroughly incorporating together all the ingredients of which they are composed. i< 5437. Plain seed cake. — The ingredients are : 2 lbs. of flour, { lb. of butter, a table- spoonful of fresh yeast, 2 eggs, 4 oz. of loaf sugar, | oz. of carraway seeds. Dry the p flour ; beat the butter to a cream, adding to it a little mUk and water, the sugar and the "'■ eggs also well beaten ; put the yeast to these ingredients, and pour them into the centre a of the flour ; work up the dough, and set it in the tin before the fiire to rise. Bake it for U an hour and half. 5438. Sponge cake The ingredients are: 10 eggs, their weight in fine sugar, the liV; weight of six eggs of flom-. Beat the yolks with the flour, the white beat separately until they froth; by degrees mix in the sugar and the whites with the flour, and whisk p all quickly together for half an hour. Put the mixture into tin moulds lined with but- ji; tered paper ; cover the top of the cake with paper, and bake for an hour and half. ^ 5439. Rice cake (with butter).— The ingredients are: 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 12 eggs, ^ lb. of flour, and | lb. of rice flour. Beat the butter to a cream; add to it the li. sugar pounded ; stir them till they appear light; break in the eggs three at a time, stirring the whole all the time. The eggs being worked in, add the rice and flour, previously g \ mixed together. Bake this in a hoop, covering the top and bottom with several folds jji of paper. ,g 5ii0. Paper cases for sponge or rice calces These cases are generally made in the form of fluted baskets; To the paper is cut somewhat larger than the moulds on which they are to be formed. A circular piece of paper ijj. of proper size is folded like the plaits of a shirt; then put on the mould, which fits tight into a wooden box, . into which the mould is forced. The paper rising above the mould is neatly cut off, and when removed from the box the paper will be found of a firm shape; it is then iced with cream sugar inside and out, and put into Q f/ the oren for a short time. It is then ready to receive the coke which is to be baked in it. ', SuBSECT. 2. — Biscuits. 5441. Champagne biscuits.— The ingredients are: 1 lb. of hutter, 2 lbs. of flour, lib. of loaf sugar, 12 eggs, and 1 oz. of carraway seeds. The eggs and sifted sugar must be mixed together until they form a thick paste ; the butter must be previously beaten to a cream, that when the sugar and eggs thicken in stirring the butter may be ready to stir j ' in with them. The flour is then added by degrees, and the carraway seeds at the same time. Put the biscuits on crinkled paper, and the papers into the tin moulds; bake them in a hot oven. 5442. Savoi/ biscuits. — The ingredients are : 15 eggs, 1 lb. of sifted sugar, J lb- of flour, and the raspings of the peel of two lemons. The eggs must have the whites and yolks beaten separately; the sugar and lemon peel is next added to the yolks, and the whole beaten with two little wooden spaddles, one in each hand, rolling them like drum-sticks, to make the mixture froth. This must be continued for a quarter of an hour, during which time an assistant must be preparing the whites bj beating them with a brisk whisk. They ^-t are, while in a state of froth, gently added to the yolks and sugar; during which time the whole must be constantly stirred, and the flour sifted in by the assistant, the stirring being still continued. When well mixed, the paste which is thus formed is spread on slieets of paper, in lengths of three and a half inches. When the papers are filled, finely powdered sugar is sifted over them through a lawn or silken sieve; after remaining for a few minutes while the sugar settles in the biscuits, put them on plates and bake them of a fine clear colour ; when cold detach the pieces from the paper with the back ' of a knife, and lay them back to back.