Of} FOOD. 422 Book VII. many. It also finds its way occasionally to the English table. It has lately been brought nearly fresh to London, in the same state as it is used at Riga and Petersburgh and may be had at Mr. J5all's Italian warehon.se, New Houd Street, at fifteen shillings' per cask ot three pounds. To be good, caviare should be of a reddish-hrown colour, and very dry. It is eaten alone, or with oil and lemon, or vinegar, or with a sauce and pickle like anchovies. The best caviare, as well as the best isinglass, is made by the Cossacks on the river Ural. In winter, the roe is eaten fresh, and it is reckoned that the less salt put with it the better; but without some, it will not keep. 2197. Tlic Slerlet is a smaller species of sturgeon, seldom exceeding the length of three feet. It is found in the Caspian Sea, and in some of the Russian rivers, and is highly celebrated for the delicacy of its flesh. It is recorded of Prince Potemkui of Russia, that in seasons when the sterlet was unusually scarce, he had been known to have given three hundred rubles for a tureen of sterlet soup. The caviare prepared from the roe of the sterlet is a dainty still more expensive, and is said to be almost exclusively confined to the use of Russian royalty. SuBSECT. 29.— The Tunny (^Thynnus vulgaris, Linn.). 2198. This fish rarely appears upon the English coast; but abounds in the Mediter- ranean, and is occasionally taken among the western isles of Scotland. It is a large fish, three or four feet in length, and sometimes much more. The flesh is considered very delicious, and something between fish and meat; it is as firm as sturgeon, but finer fla- voured. In France it is much used and dressed in a great variety of ways. SuBSECT. 30.— The Sea Lamprey {Petromyzon marinus, Linn.). 2199. The lamprey is a singular fish. In its general appearance it approaches the eel tribe, and is distinguished by seven holes, like shot holes, on each side of the head, which are breathing holes. The generality of British specimens are from twenty to twenty-eight inches in length. This fish is an inhabitant of the ocean, ascending rivers chiefly during the latter part of winter and the early months of spring, and, after a residence of a few months in fresh water, it again returns to the sea. When in motion, it is observed to swim with considerable vigour and rapidity ; but it is more commonly seen attached by the mouth to some large stone or other substance, the body hanging at rest, or obeying the motion of the current : so strong is the power of adhesion by this animal, that a stone of the weight of more than twelve pounds may be raised without forcing the fish to forego its hold. Like the eel, it is remarkably tenacious of life; the several parts, when cut in pieces, will long continue to move ; and the head will strongly attach itself, for several hours, to a stone, though the greater part of the body be cut away from it. The lamprey belongs to the class of fishes whose hones, instead of being hard, are mere cartilage ; its spine is quite soft, without any protuberances. For many ages it has main- tained its credit as an exquisite dainty, and has uniformly made its appearance at the most splendid of our entertainments. The death of King Henry I. is attributed to a too luxuri- ant indulgence in this his favourite dish. It still continues to be in high esteem, and we are told by Mr. Pennant, that the city of Gloucester continues to send yearly, at Christ- mas, a present of a rich lamprey pie to the king. It is, notwithstanding, by some con- sidered not to be wholesome food. Lampreys are most in season during March, April, and May, and are observed to be much more firm when just arrived from sea than when they have been a considerable time in fresh water. They are found in several of the British rivers, but that which is the most celebrated for them is the Severn. In the raouths of the larger of the European rivers, they are sometimes taken in such quantities, that it is impossible to use them in their fresh state; they are therefore grilled and mode- rately salted, and afterwards barrelled up for sale, with the addition of vinegar and spices, or potted. Lampreys are dressed in several ways ; they are boiled, roasted, fried, baked, in pies, or salted and dried for keeping. 2200. The River Lamprey, or Lampern {Petromyzon fliiviatilis. Linn.). This species is smaller than the last, and though found chiefly in the rivers, likewise visits the sea. It is caught in considerable quantities in the Thames, the Severn, and the Dee. It is more plentiful than the greater lamprey. SuBSECT. 31 . Tlie Weaver. 2201. The great loeaver, or the sen cat of Sussex, generally measures about twelve inches in length, swims near the bottom, and is remarkable for living a long time after it is taken out of the water. It is also armed with very sharp spines, which inflict wounds difficult to heal, except friction with oil be used. The fishermen consequently cut ofT these spines previous to bringing them to market. They arc a sort of marine perch, and arc excellent.