ARRANGEMENT OF THE TABLE, ETC. Chap. I. 807 jaw, and near the ear. The tongue and brains are usually served in a separate dish, but •are eaten with the meat. The root end of the tongue is reckoned the best. 4900. A ham is generally cut in the direction a b, fig. 775., down to the bone, and [through the prime part of the ham. Another mode is to cut a small hole at c, and to iipare out of it thin circular slices. The best part of the ham is thus begun upon irame- Miately, without the gravy escaping into the dish, the loss of which is the cause of cold liham eating dry. Fig.m. 4901. A beef tongue, fig. 776., is cut across in the line ab, whence slices of moderate tthickness are taken on each side, those midway between the root and tip being most juicy. TThe feet and kernels, liked by many people, are cut away from the under side. 4902. A roasted pig is never sent whole to table, but cut up and laid on the dish in the manner represented in fig. 777., and the dish garnished with the chaps and ears. The shoulder and leg, at each end of the ribs, must be separated from them by passing the knife under each in the circular direction of the dotted lines, cde. The triangular piece of the neck, to be cut off in the line fg, is the most approved part; next to which are the ribs divided in the lines abc; and to these, some parts of the leg and shoulder. 4903. In helping to fruit tarts it is usual to ccut the pastry into triangular pieces; and care should be taken that, in distributing the ffruit and syrup, an equal portion be given to each piece of crust. 4904. A trifle, composed of layers of sweetmeats and cakes, should be cut -with a spoon Mown to the bottom of the dish, and the mass should be lifted up and laid on the platej Mwithout disturbing it or shaking it up as is frequently done. Fig. 777. Sect. III. ARRANGEMENT OF THE TABLE AND ORDER OF THE COURSES. 4905. In treating of the management and arrangement of the table, it will be requisite to 1 sropose bills of fare, to determine the number and order of the courses, and the position I'tjf each dish on table, according to the prevalent style of the day. It may be imagined that the diiferent circumstances in which the various circles of social life are placed, call for standards as to expense and style appropriate to each : but i>n such it would be difficult to determine. Every principal of a family must decide for : limself as to the limits of his table expenses. Here the design is to describe the general ■ ;tyle of the day, without neglecting to give such details as in practice may be adopted or I -eji-'cted, limited or extended, according to the taste and judgment of the ditferent indi- l iduals who may consult this work. 490G. The general sli/le of the table in fashionable circles is lightness and elegance, ' /ariety in the dishes, and delicacy to the eye and the palate. The table no longer " groans inder the weight of barons and sirloins of beef," nor does it present in one view the same :rowded picture of substantial fare as in olden times. The variety and number of dishes )f which in the present day a dinner is composed may not be inferior to those of former lays, but they are not exhibited at once ; they are presented at different intervals of the ilinner in the form of courses and removes. The style of the table, in the houses of the affluent and fashionable, is the same every lay, no variations occurring but such as the seasons, or the fluctuations in the numbers ')f the daily party, render necessary or desirable. In such houses, cooks regularly trained o the business of the table, accustomed to draw up bills of fare for each season, as well Hs to prepare the principal dishes, and to superintend the whole kitchen department, are ndispensable members of the household. To such the directions, observations, and •cceipts here given may be of less value than to cooks living in families whose table on 3 K 2