448 ON FOOD. Book VII. 2345. We shall see, under the article " Bread," in Book IX. Chap. III., that wood itself can be used in various ways, to assist in increasing the quantity of nutriment; and chemistry has opened a new view of tlie subject, which may perhaps, some day, extend the bounds of the vegetable kingdom to the support of life. We mention tliese discoveries, because, although they are not applied at present in practice, yet they are intimately connected witli the subject of aliment, and the view which we are attempting to give would be altogether incomplete without noticing them. 234(j. Tlia discoveries to which we allude were made by M. Braconnot, a French chemist and are described at lengtli in Vol. XII. of the Annales de Chiviic. If the sawdust of hard wood be mixed up with strong sulphuric acid, it will be dissolved: when the mix- ture has got clear, add chalk to saturate the acid; then strain otf the liquor from the insoluble sulphate of lime, and boil it down to dryness. A substance will now be found in the bottom of the vessel, very much like gum arable, and which is the produce of the sulphuric acid acting upon the lignin or dry indigestible fibre of the wood. This substance indeed appears to have all the properties of gum; it is transparent and yellow, shining like gum, dissolves in water, making a viscid adhesive paste that will join bodies together. Gum is known to be to a certain degree nutritious ; and here is a new substance pos- sessing similar properties. But this is not all. If this gum be once more treated with sulphuric acid, by mL^ing and heating them together, the gum is converted into sugar capable of being granulated, and which, though not of the same strength as cane-sugar, would serve for the purposes of distillation and many others. To say that these processes would be too expensive to be applied at present to any practical use is trifling ; and we envy not the person who could urge the objection with a view to lessen the interest which such discoveries must excite. In the progress which mankind has been making from the rudest state, facts themselves have been first ascertained: their application has been a second step, and often very gradual and slow. But it is quite unnecessary to enlarge upon this subject: the history of inventions, and the advancement of society, present innumerable proofs of the most striking kind, that discoveries are not to be undervalued because we cannot see their immediate bearing ; and if even nothing farther shall be accomplished, yet the beautiful simplicity of vegetable nature flashes at once upon the understanding, and this knowledge seems to give man a power hitherto un- known and imsuspected. 2347. It now appears that starch, gum, sugar, lignin, and probably other vegetable prin- ciples, are so nearly allied in their composition (as we have already pointed out), that little is necessary to cause one to assume the form and properties of the other. But here we must make a distinction, and draw the line between the feeble powers of himian che- ' mistry, and those extraordinary, but altogether incomprehensible, powers which belong to the chemistry of nature. 2348. Starch is not merely a substance consisting of definite elements, but it is a substance having an organic structure : it consists of minute vesicles, of oval forms, that can be seen only by a good microscope : now though we can convert these into the substance called sugar, yet the chemist cannot bring this sugar back again to starch ; though he can make sugar from starch, he cannot make starch from sugar; he cannot organise. In like manner is lignin, a most extraordinary organised substance, composed of bundles of tubes fifty times finer than a hair, the finer fibre of flax being a bundle; now lignin can be made, as we have seen, into sugar, but the latter substance cannot be brought back to the state of those minute woody fibres. We know from chemistry the composition of all those substances : we know that they all consist of carbon, oxygen, and hj'drogen, — ele- ments which we can procure from mineral bodies ; yet, though we have these elementary bodies in abundance, we cannot out of them compose the simplest organic body. The work of organisation is altogether beyond the comprehension of the human mind. 2349. Now it is a fact which we learn from extensive observation, that, in order that matter shall be fitted for the food of animals of any kind, it should be prepared by having first passed through the vegetable kingdom ; that it should there have been employed in forming vegetable structures; in short, it must have been what we term an organised body, or a body possessed of a certain species of life, and constructed in a peculiar manner very different from mineral substances. No animal can subsist upon mineral bodies, even though they should contain nearly the same elementary principles as vege- tables : these elements must have been first organised before they can constitute food for an animal. Vegetables can extract food from mineral substances, and prepare it for animals, by first converting it into their substance ; after this, the same matter may be introduced into the animal system, and undergo such farther modification as to be animulised; it now passes into the animal kingdom, and is capable of affording sustenance to tliis hin-her class of beings. Here, then, is a part of that beautiful order and gradation whicli we discover in every part of creation. This chief use of vegetable life, that of conducting to a higher order, may seem to be contradicted by animals feeding upon each other i but on closer examination, it will be found that this exception is more apparent