533 WATER. Chap. I. difficult to clean ; they should be frequently scrubbed ■with a hard brush before the mud accumulates too much in them. Ou first using, water should be passed through for some time before it is di-ank, as it is necessary to carry off all soluble matter that may happen to be in the stone, and which gives a disagreeable taste to the water. Stones fit for this pur- pose are found in many parts of the kingdom, particularly in Derbyshire and Durham ; but it is said that the best filtering stone comes from the island of Fuente-ventura, and P'g-^^S- the next best from Barbadoes. Both may be procured through Mr. Joseph Bishop, 1. Crescent, Minories, London. 2987. An improved stone filter is made in the following manner: — a,y?*/. 537., is a Fig. 537. hollow vessel made by hollowing out a filtering stone, with a stone cover cemented on ; this is placed in a cistern, b c, which may be of stone, slate, or wood. The water to be filtered is put into this cistern, and it passes through the sides of the vessel of porous stone, through the vessel a, into the inside, towards which end the pressure of the water arising from its depth assists materially ; and this apparatus will therefore filter water more rapidly than the last construction. The filtered water is drawn off' by a pipe and cock, J, and a small pipe open at both ends, c, goes through the cistern and upper part of the filtering stone, for letting out the air as the water comes in, and admitting it as the water is drawn off. 2988. Fig. 538. represents ore apparatus on a large scale given in the Gardener's Magazine, vol. iv. Rain water is conducted from the roofs by pipes into the small tanks b b, in each of which there is a hollow box of filtering stone, into which the filtered water presses. From these stone boxes the pure water passes by pipes into the great tank c in the court-yard; this tank is arched over, and from it the water is drawn by a pump. 2989. FiY/cr/wg on a/arge jcnfc may be easily accomplished by means of several filters whicli may deliver their filtered water into one reservoir ; it is in this manner that the water of the Seine is filtered for the consumption of Paris. The filters made use of there are constructed of vessels containing sand of various degrees of coarseness, and charcoal, A vast number are employed, and pipes or troughs from each of them unite together, and at last empty them into the general reservoir. One great advantage attending this con- struction is, that every part of the apparatus is accessible, and the filters may be easily renewed when requi- site. 'I'he performance is very perfect. 2990. Water cmtaminated by salts of any hind cannot be easily deprived of them. Fil- tration in this case has no effect whatever ; and persons who have proposed apparatu.s for separating salt from water by this process have been totally ignorant of chemical prin- ciples, since all salts dissolved in water pass readily through the filters. Neither can any kind of mechanical compression through sand separate the salt from water, as some have erroneously imagined. To render salt or brackish water fresh, other methods must be resorted to ; but any chemical re-agents that may be employed to precipitate salts from water must themselves remain in the fluid, and constitute another kind of impurity. Mm 3