INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. Chap. IV. 1231 SuBSECT. 4. — Stiff Neck. 7248. A stiff neck is almost always relieved by warm fomentations, and the warm bath ; warmth may also be applied by means of hot flannels wrapped round the neck. A dose of James's powder (three or four grains) may be taken at bed-time. S0BSECT. 5. — Toothache. 7249. Toothache may be rheumatic, or may be caused by the decay of a tooth and inflammation of its nerve. In the former case the pain extends to several teeth, and along the jaw : it is duller than the pain of decayed teeth, and does not come on in paroxysms ; there are also often pains over the head or down the neck, in fact, rheumatism extending to other parts. In toothache proceeding from decay, the pain is at times dull and gnawing, at times severe and cutting, shooting to the ear, along the jaw and down the neck : the cause of the pain is an inflammation of the nerve distributed on the pulp of tlie tooth, and the pain is more or less severe, according to the extent and height of the inflammation ; to understand this fully, a few words on the structure of the teeth become necessary. Every one knows that teeth have different shapes ; one part is called the body, the other the fang of the tooth; each tooth is composed of a bony matter called the ivory, and of a white matter covering this on the crown, very hard and dense, and termed the enamel of the tooth. Within the tooth is a cavity, having somewhat the shape of the tooth itself, and fi.lled with a whitish substance, called the pulp ; at the end of the fang of the tooth is visible a little opening ; into this opening pass numerous little vessels and nerves ; they run into the central cavity, and are distributed on the pulp : now when the tooth has decayed somewhat, the food which is taken into the mouth can more easily make ah impression upon the nerve ; if this Impression be sufficiently severe, inflammation follows, and lasts a longer or shorter time. Several circumstances are at once evident from this statement; it proves how careful every body should be not to let the teeth decay too far, else it becomes impossible to stop them. The process of stopping consists in scooping out all the decayed part of the tooth, and filling up the hollow with gold leaf or tin foil ; if the decay has gone out to near the pulp, there is not sufficient ivory left to be scooped out. Again, it is very evident that the use of dropping laudanum and other sedatives into the tooth results from their action on the nerve itself; laudanum indeed is often very successful in alleviating the pain. Besides laudanum, various remedies are applied to a decayed tooth to relieve the pain ; camphorated spirit, applied on cotton, wool, or creosote, or oil of cloves, are often used with success ; these seem to act, not as sedatives, but by exhausting the irritability of the nerves, and then their sensibility being deadened, the pain ceases. It might be expected that we should enlarge here on the subject of dentists, but we think it would be invidious to point out any particular individuals as better than others ; and as there are plenty of excellent educated dentists in London and the large provincial towns, it is a man's own fault if he run the hazard of losing his teeth, by placing himself in the hands of an empiric. We wish, however, to caution our readers against the use of alloys, amalgams, mineral succedanea, &c., and all the tribe of advertising dentists : some of these substances are made with silver and mercury, and are positively hurtful ; others are useless, and though occasionally some seem to answer their purpose, the employment of the majority will be attended with disappointment; we believe we may safely add that all the best dentists in London have long given up these compounds. When toothache is very severe and the gum is inflamed, it is often useful to apply one or two leeches to the gum. S0B8ECT. 6.—Ear-ache. 72.')0. This is sometimes merely a nervous affection, and may be relieved by dropping two or three drops of laudanum into the ear, with or without a little sweet oil; but often ear-ache is by no means a trifling affection, and if the laudanum do not relieve the pain, medical assistance should be sought for, as high inflammation may prevail, and hearing may be interfered with—tlic brain even may be affected ; leeches and active treatment, even blood-letting, become necessary. We take this opportunity of mentioning that in case of any little insects getting into the ear, they will be immediately killed by a few drops of olive oil poured into the ear, if, indeed, the acrid secretion of the passage have not already had that effect. If a child put a seed, a little pebble, or any small body of that nature, into the ear, it may be often extracted by syringing the passage strongly with warm water for some time. If this do not effect its expulsion, tlie scoop or forceps of the surgeon becomes necessary.