ON CUTLERY. Chap. XVIII. 319 edges; and, wlien fixed in handles, make cutting instruments much better than might be supposed by those who have not seen them : they are, liowever, very far inferior to tliose of iron in point of strength and durability, being extremely brittle, and incapable of being sharpened — for it is only the natural thin edges of the splinter that will serve to cut. These were the sole cutting instruments in possession of the inhabitants of the numerous islands in the Pacific Ocean previously to their discovery : and from the remains of spear heads,'called Celts, made of flint, dug up in Britain, the aborigines, whoever they were, had not, iu all probability, the use of iron. 1412. Iron, although the best material Jilted for the purpose of making edge tools, and now the cheapest and most abundant of the metals, ivas not the first employed. It is never found in the earth in its metallic state, like some other metals, as gold, silver, and copper, and the art of extracting it from its ores is one that supposes a considerable advance in civilisa- tion. Copper, hardened by tin, and various other kinds of brass and bronze, appear to have been the materials of which all the warlike weapons and instruments for domestic purposes among the most ancient Greeks, were formed. In the description of the Trojan i war by Homer, no mention is made of iron or steel; but the swords, javelins, and armour, i-were of brass, and it has hence been doubted whether iron was known in Greece at that period. We find, however, that the Romans were from the first, not only possessed of iron, but that they at an early time made knives of that metal for carving their meat, and among them the ofBce of domestic carver existed in great families as in later times. 1413. Among modem nations England seems to have been pre-eminent in the manufacture ;of knives, and though previously to the reign of Elizabeth many were imported, yet then I London was the place where the best cutlery was made, although some other towns, as jSheffield, Woodstock, and Salisbury, were its rivals. The most ancient kind of knives «was of the sort called case knives, having the blade stuck in the handle like desk penknives, land which require to be kept in a sheath. Coarse knives of this kind, termed whittles, vwere manufactured at Sheffield in 1575, and were sold at the low price of one penny : and lat this time and earlier, that town was celebrated for its cutlery. At what date the simple land effective contrivance was invented by which knives are made to shut, as clasp knives :iand common penknives, does not appear : but they are mentioned in 1650 as having handles- nof iron covered with horn, tortoise-shell, &c. 1414. Forks are a much later invention than knives. According to Professor Beckman, tthey were probably first used by the Italians about the end of the fifteenth century. 'IThey were unknown to the ancients, none being met with among the furniture of Her- I'culanemn and Pompeii: and the Chinese to this day use two small sticks, .something Hike a cedar pencil, called chop slicks, for picking up the morsels of meat from the plate. IBefore the use of forks in Europe the fingers were often made to perform the service now rrendered by them so much more readily, as well as decorously. The use of forks was aat first considered by many an unnecessary luxury, and as such they were forbidden in ocertain convents. At first they had only two prongs of iron, but now have frequently tihree, and in a certain kind derived from the French, called spoo7i forks, they have four or hfive prongs, and these are always of silver. The first necessity for the use of a fork would pprobably be felt by the carver, and the oldest carving fork known, belonging to Henry IV. lof France, is still preserved in the castle of Pau. It is of steel, has two prongs, and is of liiength and strength sufficient to secure a baron of beef. 1415. The earliest distinct mention of the established use of /or/(s occurs in a curious ppassage of Coryates' " Crudities," a singular book of travels published in 1611. The lauthor says, " Here I will mention a thing that might have been spoken of before in the discourse of the first Italian towns : I observed a custom in all these Italian cities and l.:owns through which I passed, that is not used in any other country that I saw in my l-ravels, neither do I think that any other nation of Christendom doth use it, but only Utaly. The Italians, and also most strangers that are cormorant in Italy, do always, at i heir meals, use a little fork when they cut their meat. For while with their knife, which •hey hold with one hand, they cut the meat out of the dish, they fasten their forks, which ihey hold in their other hand, upon the same dish ; so that whosoever he be that, sitting m the company of any others at meals, should unadvisedly touch the dish of meat with ^!iis fingers, from which all the table do cut, he will give occasion of offence unto the liompany, inasmuch as that for his error he shall be at least brow-beaten, if not TOprehended in words. Tliis form of feeding, I understand, is generally used in places i5f Italy, their forkes being for the most part made of iron or steel, and some of silver, wat those are only used by gentlemen. The reason of this their curiosity is, because Mie Italian cannot by any means endure to have his dish touched with fingers, seeing J.11 men's fingers are not alike clean. Hereupon I myself thought good to imitate the |-taiian fashion by the forked cutting of meat ; not only while I was in Italj^ but also In 'I iermany, and oftentimes in England since I came home ; being once (juipped for the luent using of my forke by a certain learned gentleman, a familiar friend of mine, one Laurence Wliittaker, who in his merry humour doubted not to call me at table i