ON irOlTSEHOIiD FURNITURE. Book \ 290 Sect. II. PRINCIPLES OF POTTERY. 1282. Clay is the material luhich forms the basis of all kinds of pottery, wbetber coarse or fine. Pottery may be divided into two principal kinds: ordinary earthenware, of every kind, which is formed of clays that are infusible in a strong heat, and continue always opaque after having been fired in the furnace; and porcchiiji, which is composed of two sorts of eai-th, one infusible, and the other fusible, by which, when baked in the strong heat of a furnace, it becomes semi-vitrified and translucent. 1283. Natural clays arc of various qualities ; but those which are fit for the potter are rare. Clay consists of the earths alumina and silica mingled together.* Alumina readily unites with water, and forms with it a pulpy mass, which has a certain degree of tena- city and adhesiveness. Silica, on the contrary, when mixed with water, has no adhesive property. It is, therefore, the alumina in the natural clays that gives them the property of being plastic, or capable of being moulded into any form when in a moist state. Alu- mina is never found pure or separate in nature, although it can be procured by the chemist by detaching it from other substances ; but this is not necessary for the purpose of the potter : the clay which he requires is a natural mixture of alumina and silica. 1284. Clay, when made into a paste with water, becomes harder by drying; but then it shrinks, and is apt to become full of cracks. The mixture of silica with the alumina cor- rects this fault, the silica having no tendency to crack. Clay, after having been properly worked up into various forms when in a moist state, and dried in the sun and air, so as to acquire a certain degree of hardness, may be softened again by being beat up with water, and thus brought back to its original state. But if such hardened clay be exposed to the heat of a strong fire, and baked, or burned, as it is called, not only will its hardness be very much increased, but a great change will be found to have taken place in the nature of the substance ; for it is no longer capable of being again reduced to a paste by water, and its fragments cannot be softened any more than those of stone. 128.5. These properties of clay were, no doubt, discovered by mankind in the earliest times. We read in the Bible of bricks made in Egypt by mixing clay with straw. The latter substance was for the purpose of correcting the defect of clay alone in cracking by drying, for such bricks were merely dried and hardened by the heat of the sun ; and we actually find such bricks at this day in Egypt, and also in the ruins of Babylon. But when vessels of clay are required to hold fluids, burning them in the fire is a necessary process. 1286. For making pottery or earthenware, the clay is beaten a good deal in water, by which the fine parts are suspended in the fluid, while the coarser sink to the bottom of the containing vessel. By pouring off almost instantly the water containing the finer particles, the coarse are left behind. If, now, this finer part of the clay be suffered to subside, and the water be poured off, a clay wUl be produced much finer than the first, and may be still farther depurated by passing through a fine sieve. This appears to have been the only process employed in making earthenware formerly. The best natural clays were sought for, and were purified in this manner. They were then moulded on the potter's wheel, and burned by a proper degree of heat. 1287. Very good potter's clay, or a mixture of alumina and silica alone, is infusible in the heat of our furnaces; and, as it becomes more and more hard by a greater degree of heat, by high and long-continued firing, to wares made of this material an extreme degree of hardness may be given, with the quality of being impenetrable to fluids. But such clays are extremely rare ; and those which are employed for pottery are usually mixed natu- rally with a small quantity of lime, iron, and perhaps magnesia, and other substances. Much lime, and also oxide of iron, in the clay causes it to fuse, and therefore prevents its being subjected to the same degree of heat as it otherwise might, and of receiving the same degree of hardness. 1288. After the potter''s clay has been well ground and kneaded, it is put upon the centre of the potters' wheel, which is a circular board placed horizontally, and kept in constant rota- tory motion ; it is then, first by the workman's hand, and afterwards by proper tools, formed into vessels of various shapes, which are dried, and, as soon as they can bear being removed, are baked in the potter's kiln or oven. After it is baked, it will still be more or less porous, and cannot yet be applied to the purpose of holding liquids. It is neces- sary, therefore, to cover it with some sort of glaze, which is usually of a vitreous kind. » We shnll speak of silica as being simply an earth (tlie siliceous earth), which will be siilTiricnt for popular view oi^the subject: but this earth is now known to consist of the elementary principle silicon unit to oxygen, and is sometimes termed by chemists silicic acid. The earth alumina consists likewise of the cl mcnt aluminum united to oxygen.