485 FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. Chap. IX. CHAP. IX. DESCRIPTION OF THE FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. Sect. I. GENERAl, OBSERVATIONS., 2650. The most agreeable, if not the most useful, species of vegetable food consists of fruits. The hardy fruits, or such as grow without the aid of artificial heat, are valuable as food, independently of their employment in the dessert; and some of these, as the apple and the gooseberry, &c., are easily within the reach of the humbler classes. 2651. Hie most important of our fruits were originally the produce of warm countries, and have, by the art of cultivation, been gradually acclimatised to temperate regions. Those enlightened nations of antiquity, the Greeks and Romans, introduced into Italy many fruits from countries which they subdued, and it was their constant practice to extend these advantages to their conquests. In this manner the fig, the orange, the peach, plum, cherry, apple, and pear, almonds, olives, and a great variety of others, mostly natives of Asia, have been spread over Europe ; and thus war, productive of so many evils, has, in the early stages of society, contributed to diffuse the arts of civilisation. Before the invasion of the Romans, Britain probably possessed no other than the- wild fruits of Northern Europe, the crab, the sloe, the hazel nut, and the acorn. Much was due to the Anglo-Saxon monks, who, in their time, were probably the only gardeners, and who bestowed much care in the cultivation and improvement of some of our best fruits ; their vineyards and orchards were in great perfection from the twelfth to the fifteenth century. 2652. The Crusades, unjust as they were, contributed to the improvement of European society ; and the monastic gardens owed some of their choicest fruits to the ecclesiastics who had accompanied the expeditions to the Holy Land. In the same manner the Spaniards introduced the European vegetables and fruits into America, as the English missionaries are now doing in the islands of the Pacific, and in Africa. 2653. The discovery of Uie New World, and the extension of commerce in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, added considerably to the number of our fruits and vegetables.; and this princess herself set an example as a horticulturist. Under the Stuart family, gardening was greatly improved ; and in each succeeding reign it made a steady progress. 2654. At present every part of the globe is examined by our botanists, and constant additions are being made to our knowledge of the vegetable kingdom. The modern im- provements in science, and the art of gardening, have enabled us to add to our list numerous tropical plants, some of which, though at their first introduction they were kept entirely in stoves, are now planted out, and can bear the rigour of our ordinary winters ; from which it may reasonably be expected that they may be so far acclimatised here as to ripen in the open air. Already we find pine-apples and melons, formerly so rare, now by no means uncommon in Covent Garden market, and sold at very moderate prices. 2655. On this subject Sir Joseph Banks has observed: "It does not require the gift of prophecy to foretell, that ere long the aker and the avocado pear of the West Indies, the flat peach, the mandarin orange, and the litchi of China, the mango, the mangostan, and the durion of the East Indies, and possibly other valuable tropical fruits, will be frequent at the tables of opulent persons ; and some of them, perhaps in less than half a century, be offered for sale every market day in Covent Garden." 2656. The extended introduction of inter-tropical fruits begins much to interest the admirers of these natural productions, and trials may be made without much additional expense in our hot-houses, now fitted up in such perfection. The banana, or plantain, has been fruited in Britain nearly forty years ago, and frequently since. When the hot- house is lofty enough, it is a magnificent plant, and makes an appearance even surpassing what it exhibits in its native country, where its ample leaves are often torn in pieces by the winds. The mango has been also fruited both in France and England ; and if some of the best varieties were imported with care from Jamaica, there is little doubt that, with proper cultivation, they might be had on the table as easily as the pine-apple. But the orange trade displays in a singular manner the advantages which we derive from the present commercial system. Though these are fruits of climates much warmer than ours, yet we obtain them at a price little higher than that of our domestic fruits. Nor should we forget, while on this subject, that some of our wild fruits, as the berries, perhaps deserve to be made the subject of experiment how far they may be capable of im- provement, and whether it may not be judicious to attempt their melioration. 2657. Great advantage has been derii'ed of late to the cultivation of fruits in general hy the establishment of horticultural societies, particularly the London and Caledonian, the " Transactions " of which contain much valuable information on this interesting subject: great pains have been bestowed to select and disseminate the best varieties. Ii3