Book XI. 842 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. 4758. The kitchen dresser is a strong side-table attached to the •wall, -with shelves over it serving as a plate ra.ck,J!g. 705. ; on the upper side of the shelves, close to the front edge, there are fillets of wood to prevent the plates from sliding off ; and there are a number of hooks on the edges of the shelves to hang small jugs and other things upon. At the bottom of the dresser is the pot-board for placing saucepans, tea-kettles, and other things put upon the fire ; this part is always painted black. The dresser itself and plate rack are best painted stone or wainscoat colour. Instead of the pot-board, some prefer having below the di-esser a system of drawers and shelves, inclosed by doors, for holding knives and forks, spoons, spices, and various things necessary for the cook ; or there may be one dresser with a pot-board, and another like that just mentioned. rig. 70C- 4759. Closets or cupboards of some kind are essential in a kitchen, as well as in various other offices. Some are fixtures constructed with the house. Buffets or comer cupboards. Jig. 706. a and b, were much in use in days of old, but now are seen only in the cottage, or old farm-house. They were used for holding the punch bowls, glasses and china; but might occasionally be found useful in some of the offices, particularly when there is a deficiency of room. In short, conveniences of this kind must be regulated by the wants of the establishment, and the plan of the offices ; so that no rules can be established. 4760. The common kitchen chairs used in and about London, ^^jr. 707., are made strong of beech or elm, put well together with mortises and tenons, and are not painted, but kept clean by scouring. They are chiefly made in the country. Fig. 707. 4761. The Windsor chair, fig. 708., is much used as a kitchen and likewise as a cottage and garden chair in many parts of the west of England. The seat is made of elm a little hollowed out; the outer rail of the back is of ash in one piece and bent to the form, its end being inserted into the seat. An additional support to the back is given by two round rails made fast to a part of the chair which projects behind. These chairs are remarkably strong as well as light and cheap. Fig. 709. is another variety of the chair of a simpler shape ; the back rails are made stouter and have no occasion for the support behind. 4762. Benches are long wooden seats with backs to them, fig. 710., useful in servants' halls, lobbies, and similar places. ^ . 4763. Settles are old-fashioned seats with high, close backs to defend those who sit m them from any cold draughts of o\r,fiij. 711. They were formerly common in the corners