GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. 828 Book XI. Fig. 663. for a very long time. (See further observations on tin plate under " Materials of Fur- niture," Book V.) One of the principal causes of the destruction of tin saucepans is what is termed burning in the inside, an effect which is seldom understood. This so-called burning is caused by suffering the saucepan to remain on the fire with too little liquid, or permitting some substance to attach itself to the bottom through neglect in stirring, in consequence of which the metal becomes much more heated in that part, and the tin itself is fused and separated from the iron ; this may be perceived to have been the ease by the ridges and drops of pure tin that will then be seen collected on the inside. The iron being thus exposed appears black, and soon oxidates or rusts, which explains the incorrect expression burned. There is no remedy for this accident or neglect after it has occurred, since the tin cannot be put on again, and a saucepan so treated must of course very soon wear out. Tin saucepans likewise require to be dried with great care when they are put away, as every good cook knows; because although, as we stated, tin itself is not liable to rust, yet, in the manufacture of tin plate, the iron is seldom or ever so completely covered but that there are little places, even so small as a pin's point, that have escaped the coating, and in these minute spots the iron is liable to be attacked by rust. From this description of the tin plate of which saucepans are made, it will readily suggest itself to every one, that it must be improper to scour them often with sand, or any coarse gritty powder, since this must necessarily cover the tin with scratches, and soon wear it off'. The tin should be cleaned bright when necessary, by something soft, as soft Bath brick ; but even this as seldom as possible : they should be washed out immediately after being used, and the grease removed by hot water, and sometimes perhaps by the use of a little soda or potash ; after which they should be thoroughly wiped and dried, and kept in a dry place. The French cooks wash out their stew-pans with a lye made with wood-ashes, which contains some of the alkali potash: this they call lessieve. The handles of common tin saucepans, 663., are made of a piece of tin rolled round into a coni- cal form; but this being fixed on with soft sol- der, is apt to come off if the flame is suffered to come to it. Saucepans are made of various sizes, from holding half a pint to several quarts. When they are very large, they have generally an ad- ditional handle, such as those represented in the fish kettle,/if. 663. The covers or lids must not be made to project beyond the saucepan itself, though this Fig. 6C4. might seem to form a protection against any thing getting in ; but it occasions an inconvenience, that it draws the smoke into the vessel. The lid and saucepan should be precisely of the same diameter. The covers are seldom made double ; but it is very advantageous for them to be so, on account of their confining the heat much better. Count Rumford recommended that they should be of a conical form, as a, Jig. 664., with a space for confined air between the horizontal and inclined plate, and a tube through the centre to let out the steam, to which a stopple and chain must be adapted; the handle being placed as in the cut a; a better form might be as b. The suggestion is excellent, but it does not appear to be adopted. One of the best covers for confining heat, where superior neatness is not a primary object, is wood, or wood lined with tin, fig. 66.')., as being a non-conductor ; these are often used where cast-iron kettles are employed. 4709. Copper saucepans are generally of the form of fg. 666. These are much more durable than tin plate ; but likewise much more Fig. r,65. Fig. 666, expensive at first It is essential that they should be kept well tinned in the inside. Saucepans are likewise made of the same form of sheet ■ iron japanned black on the outside, and tinned within. These are much stronger than those of tin plate, but do not last so long as those of copper. Some cooks have a great prejudice against them, and pretend that iron saucepans will turn black what- ever is cooked in them: but this opinion is evi- dently erroneous, provided the cast-iron is kept tinned, or even well cleaned ; and as we have