.. II. SUBSTANCES EMPLOYED IN ITS PRODUCTION. 12.5 ■\G2. At present there are three modes by which artificial light is usually prodiiced; by idles, lamps, and gas. We shall consider these separately : but first we shall treat of t various substances employed to burn for this purpose. CHAP. n. OF THE VAIUO0S SUBSTANCES ESIPLOTED IN THE PEODUCTION OF ARTIFICIAL LIGHT, Sect. I. 55G3. General remarks. — The materials from which artificial light is procured, are derived rrtly from the animal, partly from the vegetable, and some from the mineral, kingdom, aiiimal fat or oleaginous substances, in our common temperature, are either solid, as wax dd spermaceti, or always fluid, as fish oil. Of vegetable oleaginous substances, some fi always solid in the usual temperature of Britain, as palm oil: others are always fluid, I olive and rape oils. The mineral substances are naphtha, petroleum, &c. Sect. II. WAX. i664. Wax is both an animal and a vegetable production. The first kind is a secretion by rrtain insects, of which the bee is the most remarkable. The second is afforded by plants, lax was long supposed to be merely collected by bees from the pollen of flowers : but lis opinion is now known to be erroneous: the pollen which the bees are seen to ilUlect and to carry home attached to their thighs, is for the purpose of feeding their young, i is, therefore, termed bee bread. The wax of the bee is elaborated in its stomach. Yith his tongue he sucks the saccharine juice in the nectaries of flowers ; and this is jansformed into wax by certain secreting organs in the animal. The wax then exudes rrough apertures between the abdominal rings, into what have been termed wax-pockets, hhich were first discovered by Mr. John Hunter, and of which the working bees have jght: these are situated under the wings. From the observations of Huber, it appears laat sugar is essential to the formation of wax; and that bees supplied with sugar only, iiid shut up in the house, manufacture wax in the same manner as those bees which enjoy ideir freedom; which proves that wax is not merely a vegetable substance. .' 565. The cells of tuax constructed by the bees consist of two ranges, disposed back to tuick, in combs that are placed vertically. They are all hexagonal or six-sided ; and the tecuracy with which they are constructed, and the wonderful instinct by which the form t-ast adapted for the purpose is given, has excited the admiration of mankind in all ages, luut the natural history of the bee, so highly interesting, is to be found in many works of bae present day; and it is therefore unnecessar}- to describe it further in this place. The iiioest wax is made, where the bees have access to dry heaths and hilly countries: in Liaces abounding in vineyards it is decidedly inferior. A young hive wUl yield, at the v.ad of the season, about one pound of wax, and an old hive twice as much. 566. There are two kinds of wax found in commerce, yellow or unbleached; and ivhite or "lurified and bleached. The yellow is the wax just as it corner out of the hive, after ex- irressing the honey. The dark yellow colour is owing to an admixture of some honey f!Dd the bee bread, for the natural colour of wax is pure white. 567. To procure the wax from the combs for use. After separating the honey from them S3 much as possible, by draining and pressing, tho> combs are either soaked for some days ni clear water, in order to extract all the honey, or they are broken into pieces, and ppread on a sheet near the hives, so that the bees may in time suck out all the honey that * i left. The whole of the comb is then inclosed in a canvass bag, and put into a kettle trith boiling water; by this the wax is melted, and it is squeezed out by pressing the bag >yith a large wooden spoon. The melted wax rises to the surface of the water, and •iwims on the top. It is next skimmed ofi", and put into another vessel with cold water, 'yy which it is hardened. It is then taken oil', re-melted, and cast in wooden, earthen, >nr metallic moulds, which are first anointed with honey, oil, or water, to prevent the wax 'ri-om sticking to them. Before wax is employed for the ordinary purposes, as the making of candles, for mo- ! Idling, the uses of the surgeon, perfumer, &c., it is rendered white by bleaching. 568. Wax is bleached by exposing it in thin lamina; to the action of the light and air, hy which it becomes perfectly white, scentless, somewhat harder, and less greasy to the 1 ouch. To effect this, it is first broken into small pieces, and melted in a copper cauldron, «»'ith water just sufficient to prevent the wax from burning. Tlic cauldron has a pipe at I'.he bottom, through which the wax, when melted, is run off into a large tub filled with