Book IV. 48 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. vertical. These require the -wicks to be very nicely trimmed : for it is to be observed that the wick when in this position is more apt to contract a hard crust than when nearly horizontal. The upper part is often made and sold separate, so as to fit into any candlestick either japanned or of brass. They form cheap lights for kitchens and other places -where economy is much an object: and indeed, if properly managed, give as good a light as small candles, c, fig. 116. is one of a more or- namental kind, -with a glass to keep the flame steady : and if a common cylindrical glass with a plate, such as is afterwards described, be added, these common lamps -will give no smoke. These candlestick lamps require replenishing -with oil pretty often, as the capillary at- F'g' 1J6. traction of the -svick cannot raise it to any great height. a, fig. 117. is a very economical working lamp made for the light to be raised or lowered. The oil is contained in the conical reservoir which slides on the stem only by the latter passing through a cork attached to the top of the reservoir. b is also a very economical lamp, made to raise and lower, such as is used by watchmakers. The wick is made flat, and it has a shade to throw the light down, and also a cylindrical glass to keep it steady. AVhen this is well-trimmed, and the oil good, it gives very little smoke, and may be used as an excellent econo- mical reading lamp. The oil is contained in a reservoir, and this lamp does not consume half so much as an Argand. It costs only six or seven shillings, and the addition of the oxydator to be afterwards described com- pletely destroys the smoke, making it thus a good and cheap reading lamp. Fig. 118. exhibits small lamps made portable by a glass added to protect the flame from the wind : they are useful and safe as bedchamber lamps: an extinguisher P'S-117- is attached. Fig. 118. 690, Float lights, fig. 119., are short wicks fixed into some substance that floats on oil, as a round slice of cork, or a hollow flattened sphere of glass or tin. Elegant glasses are sold for holding the oil; but any glass, as a tumbler or wine glass, will do. They are very useful for burning to give a light all night, being safe ; and, by making the wick small, they may be made to give as little light as is required. The best sperm oil should be used; and it is well to put a tea-spoonful of water into the bottom of the vessel before the oil is poured in, that, when the oil is burned out, the wick may be extinguished. An inch in depth of oil in an ordinary Fig. 119. tumbler will burn twenty-four hours. 691. Fountain lamps,fig. 120., are those where the reservoiris above the level of the wicks, and -which consequently burn with the same brilliancy as long as there is any oil in the reservoir. Sect. II. aboand's lamp. 692. The smoke and disagreeable smell arisingfrom the burning of oil in common lamps, and the unsightly appearance of the whole process, had long banished the lamp from the apartments of the wealthy, and Fig. 12". they had been imiversally superseded by candles.