10 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. Book 1. 33. //( Ituly, where there were still remaining so many antique buildings while it m ;i> in the possession of the Goths and Lombards, the Roman architecture, which had fallen into a debased state on the decline of the empire, was imitated in a rude manner during the middle ages; and the buildings erected during that period, a few of which are still to be seen, belong to what is known as the Lombard style. Afterwards appeared a mixture of this barbarous architecture with Gothic pointed arches. In the same building, and even in the same front, portions in both styles are seen in sad confiision mixed with con- ceits of a puerile kind; an example of which occurs in the church of San Antonio at Padua, begun by Nichola Pisano in 1231. A reformation in architecture was begun early in the fifteenth century by Brimelleschi, a Florentine architect, and was followed up by Alberti, Bramante, Vignola, Serlio, and others; but their style of design was far from being free from the faults of the former period. Indeed in this old Italian school were produced numerous absurdities, which to the present day have not wholly disappeared ; and by the revivers of Roman architecture the beautiful character of the antique was never well understood. One of their great errors was the endeavour to reduce the parts of what are termed the orders of architecture to positive rules in their proportions; thus subjecting the art to trammels that have proved inconvenient, and which indeed tended in time to reduce architectural design almost to a mechanical trade, contrary, as would appear from antique remains, to the practice of the ancients, although in some degree sanctioned by the writings of Vitruvius. A taste for good sculpture long survived the decline of general architectural design in Italy; and hence were retained, in the architecture of that country, many ornaments and parts of beautiful form and execution, with much of the spirit of the antique. But these cannot preserve the buildings to which they are attached from the severe censure of the architectural critic ; and the Cinque Cento, or Italian style of the fifteenth century, though possessed of many excellences, is not deserving of being perpetuated as a whole. But notwithstanding this general censure, which applies more particularly to churches and other ecclesiastical buildings, it must be admitted that in the Cinque Cento style of archi- tecture there are innumerable beauties as well as absurdities, and abundant proofs of genius in the architects of that period displayed in their fertility of invention. The modern architect will find in the buildings of Italy an inexhaustible field for study, and perhaps a cure for that monotony and insipidity now so prevalent amongst us ; provided he has sufficient knowledge of fine art to select what is good, without copying the whole. In particular, many of the palaces of Rome, Florence, and other Italian cities, have been generally admired by the best judges for their simplicity and grandeur of design in the exterior, as well as for the picturesque effects produced in the interiors. As specimens of fronts of these, we present the Farnese palace in Rome, by San Gallo, (Jig. 14.) and the Pandolfini palace at Florence {Jig. 15.). The Venetian territories have Fig. 14. been enriched by numerous palaces and villas designed by Palladio; one of which, the celebrated Villa Capra, is represented in fig.lG. In the Italian villas may be seen beautiful examples of the truest taste in the combination of architecture with gardi'ii and picturesque scenery. 34. Several circumstances conduced to produce an entire change in the architecture of rt/.v country during the latter end of the Tudor period. Classical literature began to be more attended to, which, with the reform in religion, gave rise to new ideas, and the fine arts received a greater degree of attention. The style of architecture then prevailing in Italy was first imported partially into this kingdom in the latter part of the reign of Henry VIII., and appeared here occasionally as an incongruous mixture of the antique Roman style debased with many details, which, though not strictly Gothic, were