2G0 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. practised; but the art appears to have passed from the east into Europe. Some suppose that this rich manufacture was brought from the Levant by the crusaders, and it became at length the greatest ornament of palaces, churches, and other public buildings. The French ascribe the invention to the Saracens: and hence the workmen employed in it were called Sarazins. Guicciardini states it to belong to the Dutch. The first manufac- tories of tapestry of any note were those of Flanders, established there long before they were attempted in France or England. The chief of these were at Brussels, Antwerp, Oudenarde, Lisle, Tournay, Bruges, and Valenciennes. At Brussels and Antwerp they succeeded well, both in the design and the execution of human figures and animals, and also in landscapes. At Oudenarde landscapes were better imitated, but they did not succeed so well with the figure. The other manufactories, always excepting those of Arras, were inferior to these. The manufactories of Arras, indeed, were so celebrated, that the name of this place has been frequently given to tapestry. Sully, the minister of Henry IV. of France, devoted his attention to this manufacture, and was enabled, by means of Flemish artists, to establish that of the Gobelins near Paris, which, under Louis XIV. became so celebrated as to be considered the first in the world. The name of Gobelins was taken from that of two excellent dyers, because the manufacture was first carried on in a house which had been built by them. In this place the most able artists, among others Le Brun, were employed to make designs, and to direct copies of the best pictures. When the tapestries were large they were woven in parts, which were united by the rentrayeurs, or fine drawers: and many of these productions are scarcely inferior to the paintings they were copied from. This art is generally supposed to have been brought into England by William Sheldon, about the end of the reign of Henry VIIL, and parts of some maps in tapestry, made by Hicks, the artist he employed, were lately preserved at Strawberry Hill. 1174. In 1619 a considerable manufacture was established at Mortlake, in Surrey, by Sir Francis Crane, who received 2000?. from King James to assist in carrying it on ; and, according to Walpole, it was brought to great perfection. At his establishment some superb tapestries were executed during the reign of Charles I., from designs of distin- guished painters, such as Rubens and Vandyke, several of which still exist, as at Hampton Court Palace, and Mary's Hall, Coventry. During the civil wars the manufacture lan- guished, and under the Commonwealth it was abolished; nor has there been any manufac- ture of tapestry in this country since that time. 1175. In the time of Queen Elizabetli, tapestry, called arras-work, was very generally adopted in the houses of the country genti-y, but this was of a coarse fabric, partly the produce of the loom, but also of the needle, and sometimes, it would appear, little more than painted cloths; and it was suspended on frames, which were at a little distance from the walls, and thus afforded the means of persons concealing themselves behind them. A superb set of pictures in tapestry, representing the destruction of the Spanish armada, was executed in Flanders, and long ornamented our House of Lords, until they were destroyed in the fire of 1834. Fortunately a set of engravings had been made from them by John Pine, in 1739 ; and a fragment of one of them still exists in Plymouth. 1176. The use of plaster of Paris in finishing the walls of apartments, which began to be general in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, caused that of tapestries to be discontinued, from the facility with which architectural ornaments in relief could be produced: and tapestry is at present seldom seen except in restorations or imitations of ancient mansions. In France it is still executed at some of the great manufactories ; and in that country there are preserved abundant examples of ancient tapestry. 1177. Embroidery is much more generally used abroad than with us for ornamenting dress. Threads of the brightest and most showy kinds are employed. Embroidered handkerchiefs, generally carried in the hand, are universally used in Turkey, and the neighbouring nations of Asia, and are often bestowed as presents by Turkish ladies, by whom the working of them is a favourite amusement Embroidery is also much practised at present by ladies in Germany : with this they ornament various articles of furniture, as screens, ottomans, footstools, &c. This practice has lately been fashionable among ladies in England, and German patterns, as well as all the various maferials, canvass, wools, and silks, are now sold in many of the London shops. . Muslin was formerly embroidered by stretching on an instrument called a tambours the more open the muslin, the better it is adapted for the purpose : but it is now mora generally worked in the hand. A great many hands were employed in embroiderinrf muslins : and this work was chiefly carried on in the south of Scotland and north on England. Embroidery is one of the last things that one would expect to see done byj machinery : yet this has been efifected by M. Heilman, of Miilhausen. His invention waffl exhibited in Paris in 1834, and several of his machines, by which about 130 needles arffl worked by one grown up person, and two children, are employed in France, GermaiiyJ and Switzerland. Lately they have been introduced at Manchester. One machine^