979 COTTON FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. Chap. IV. webs might be drawn through a ring of moderate size, the tissue being so exquisite, that it seemed more like the work of insects than of men, and according to the hyperbole of the East, resembled " the woven wind." A specimen of this manufacture may be seen in the museum of the East India Company. The threads, however, when examined with the microscope, though surpassing in fineness, and spun only by the distaff and spindle, have not the regularity of our machine-made thread. Sir Joseph Banks weighed a por- tion of the yarn of which this is formed, and found that twenty yards weighed only one grain, and a pound of it would reach 115 miles. In England yarn has been spun so fine that a pound would extend to 167 miles in length; but such yarn could not be woven here. This extremely fine muslin of Dacca, however, was made only by a few families, and was not permitted to be exported, being intended chiefly for the great and wealthy at the court of Delhi under the imperial government. It is said that the art of making it is now in danger of being lost, the orders for it being so few, that many of the families who possess the hereditary instruction in the mode of weaving them have desisted, on account of the difficulty they afterwards experience in disposing of them. The Dacca muslins are made of a peculiarly fine long stapled cotton that grows on the banks of the river Magna. A hundred rupees was the price of a piece of this fine muslin, but some brought to England has cost ten or twelve guineas per yard. In India they not only excel in the art of weaving white calicoes (calicuts) and muslins of every description, figured as well as plain, but they likewise excel in the flowered and glazed cottons called chintzes. The cotton manufacture of India is not carried on merely in a few large towns; in the cotton districts, formerly the growth of this material was nearly as general as that of food ; everywhere the women spent a portion of their time in spinning, and almost every village where cotton was cultivated, contained weavers, and supplied its own inhabitants with the scanty clothing they required. 5770. The method of fabricating cotton cloth in India is as follows: The downy fibres being separated from the seeds by fluted rollers of wood, and opened by the stroke of a string fixed to an elastic bow, the cotton is spun by the women; the coarse yarn on a heavy one-thread wheel of teak wood, and of the rudest construction, the finer yarn with a metallic spindle and a distafi!. The spinster keeps her fingers dry by the use of a chalky powder ; and in this manner are yarns produced which are finer and far more tenacious than any of the machine-spun yarns of Europe. Then follows the process of warping, which is performed by young persons running nimbly with the bobbins in their hands, and winding the thread round sticks of bamboo fixed in the ground; the warp is then dressed with rice-water. The yarn having been thus warped, the weaver's business begins, and his loom is as rude an apparatus as can be imagined. It is thus described by Mills, in his " History of British India:" — Tlie loom (j5g.787.) consists merely of two bamboo rollers, one for the warp, and the other for the web, and a pair of geer or treadles for parting the warp. The shuttle performs the double office of shuttle and batten for driving home the weft; and for this purpose is made like a large netting-needle, and of a length somewhat exceedmg tlie breadth of the piece. This apparatus the weaver carries to a tree, under the shade of which he digs a hole large enough to contain his legs and the lower p.irt of the treadles. He then stretches his warp, by fastening his bamboo rollers at a due distance from each other on the turf by wooden pins. The balances of the treadles he fastens to some convenient branch of the tree over his head • two loops underneath the geer, in which he inserts his great toes, serve to move the treadles. Finally, he sheds the warp, draws the weft through it, and afterwards strikes It up close to the web. There is not so much as an expedient for rolling up the warp ; it is stretched out at the full length of the web, which makes the house of the weaver insufficient to contain him. lie is, therefore, generally obliged to work continually 3 R 2