ON MAKING WINE. 599 Chap. IV. consider the methods of fabricating wines from our native British fruits, or what are usuiilly termed domestic or home-made wines, and particularly the most perfect, those made from grapes. In the last, we shall treat of the business of the wine-cellar, and the adulterations of wine. 3384. Wine having been made long before chemistry was known as an art, its discovery did not depend upon this science; nor is it to be supposed that much chemical know- ledge is possessed by all who make good wines at the present day. The art of wine- makmg attained a degree of perfection, no doubt, chiefly in consequence of an infinity of trials made by persons who had sense and intelligence sufficient to take advantage of observations made during the various processes they employed, and who could mark certain effects, although they could not describe the rationale of them. In countries where the necessary materials are abundant, and other circumstances are favourable, this is comparatively easy; aad good wine is often made, like good beer, by persons who acquire a certain skill which they do not know how to communicate, but which is the result of what is sometimes denominated mere practice, although, in fact, it is practice guided by sagacity and careful observation. The experience of such persons generally dies with them, and similar knowledge can only be obtained by going over the same ground again, and by the repetition of numerous experiments, many of which must neces- sarily be unsuccessful. 3385. It is the business of science to shorten this labour, by recording the precise results of the several trials, and, by pointing out the natural causes that have acted in producing them, lead the way to a more certain mode of practice. By studying the scientific principles of any art, we obtain in a short time a degree of knowledge that otherwise could be acquired only by long experience, and with this advantage, that it is unattended with those prejudices which are usually possessed by those who have devoted much of their time to practice only, unaided by the lights of science. In Britain, our climate being unfavourable, the art of making wine is little practised ; it is, therefore, more difficult to gain experience, and we have the more occasion to profit by that of others. France has long preserved a superiority in the fabrication of wines, although for many ages the art of wine-making had been conducted according to empii-ical rules; but it was in that country that chemistry first investigated the theory of the best mode of its manufacture, and brought it to the highest state of perfection. 3386. To the discoveries of Lavoisier, and the labours of his successors, we are indebted for the clear and satisfactory basis on which the doctrine of fermentation is now established ; and the names of Chaptal, Thenard, and Guy Lussac, stand pre-eminent among those who have successfully studied this subject, and applied modern chemistry to the improvement of wine. Amongst us, the writings of Dr. Henderson and Dr. Macculloch have contributed to diffuse scientific knowledge respecting wine ; and in his recent work, Mr. Redding has collected numerous interesting particulars. To these authors, among others, we wil- lingly acknowledge our obligations. SuBSECT. 2. — Of the Grape Vine, and the chemical Composition of the Grape. Wine, properly so called, is the produce of grapes only; and we refer the reader to some account of these m Book VII. Chap. IX. " On Fruits." 3387. To make good wine, it is necessary that the grapes should have much saccharine matter, and to produce this requires a great deal of solar influence ; no other quality can compensate for the deficiency of sugar : hence the cultivation of the vine depends much upon climate. The production of good wine from vineyards is limited to a zone extending in breadth from the thirty-third to the fifty-first degree of north latitude. Coblentz on the Rhine is the most northerly point; and Shiraz in Persia, and the Isle of Cyprus, the most southern. In the most northern parts of this zone the grapes are deficient in sugar, and the wines are often harsh and austere, like those of the Rhine and Moselle ; and in the southern part the grapes have a superabundance of sugar, and are deficient in other necessary prin- ciples: hence only sweet wines can be made there, or what are called vins dc liqueurs, such as those of Malaga ; in this part the grapes are often dried into raisins. The best wines are made in the centre of the zone, as those of Burgundy, Bourdeaux, and Oporto. But it appears that the ripening of fruits, particularly of the grape, does not depend altogether upon latitude ; for a portion of the banks of the Rhine, where excellent wine is made, has the same latitude as the south of England, where it has been found very difii- cult to ripen the grape sufficiently in the open air, on account of the greater humidity and cloudiness of the atmosphere, which lessen the action of the sun's rays. • 3388. Grapes ripen best, and become sweeter, on a southern exposure ; and the sides of hills with this aspect are found to be the most favourable situations. On the banks of the Rhine, in the Apennines, in Hungary, and many other places, vines arc planted in terraces Qq 4