l-:hap. v. 23 DUTIES OF THE ARCHITECT. aannot be done where many alterations and repairs are introduced. In the former case, hhe estimate is produced by the same process on paper as is employed in measuring the louilding when finished : but in the latter case the estimate cannot be much more than con- ieecture. It should be a rule, therefore, to alter as little as possible after a building is once tocgun. . -j; ■ Together with plans and estimates, there is made out what is termed a specification, or particular, which is an accurate technical description of the manner in which the several works are to be executed. 71. There are various ways in which building may he carried on; the best, and what may hbe termed the legitimate, mode, is for the architect to select and engage all the master trades- imen, who should work entirely under his direction and superintendence, they being ffurnished with accurate working drawings, and copies of the specifications, which de- sscribe the kind of materials to be used, and all the necessary details respecting the work ; amd it is the business of the architect to see that these are most strictly adhered to. \When the whole is completed to the satisfaction of the architect, and partly while it is cgoing on, the several works are measured and valued by two persons. One is the archi- titect iimself, or some one appointed by him, and who acts for the interest of the proprietor ; tithe other is employed by the tradesman to take care of his interest. These persons belong ilo a class of minor surveyors; who being solely employed in measuring, valuing, and eestimating, have more experience than any others in these operations, which are extremely IJaborious. The measurements being made out, are cast up into what are termed quan- tiities; to each of which is attached the price usually agreed upon, and allowed by the cgeneral consent of the surveyors and tradesmen of the day, and which are foimded upon I the prime cost of the materials, and the time generally employed by the workmen accord- ring to the observations and experience of the master tradesmen, together with a certain irasual per centage for profit. These prices are severely criticised in case of any difficulty hby the two surveyors, who have opposite interests to attend to, and they are at last adjusted aas nearly as possible to what they ought to be. The prices allowed for all the different kind of work in building are published every }year or two in what are entitled " Builders' Price Books ; " and although these are not ssanctioned by the profession, nor considered as authority, being the work of experienced I individuals only, yet they are very near the truth, and may serve to give a general idea of what is allowed by surveyors. Should any part of the work not be well done, or the 1 materials employed be of an inferior kind, the employer's surveyor will not allow the price demanded. In short, the measurement and prices made out by the two surveyors employed I in this business constitute the bill to be delivered to the employer, and it is signed by both tthe surveyors. Nothing can be fairer than this mode of doing business; any thing like ccollusion is almost impossible, and we may safely say is never practised. In certain cases, i indeed (but this is generally where the bill has been made out by one surveyor only), <when the employer considers himself to have been overcharged, the bill is put into the 1 hands of another surveyor to be examined, and deductions are made in prices, but more t rarely in the quantities, from the great difficulties of their examination. If these deduc- i tions, marked in red ink, are not submitted to by the tradesman, a law-suit may be the I consequence; but as lawyers are unable to enter into such an affair as the examination of I charges of which they have little experience, the case is generally at last referred to . arbitration, two experienced surveyors being appointed arbitrators. This disagreeable > conclusion may almost always be avoided by care and precision in the original estimates, \hy firmness on the part of the architect during the execution of the work, and by the pro- [ prietor not giving occasion to alterations. The architect receives so much per cent, upon t the amount of the bills (generally five, or less if the work is very considerable). Some 1 persons imagine that this mode of remuneration offers a temptation to run the employer 1 to greater expense than is necessary ; but whatever may be the case in works on a very 1 lai-ge scale, this can scarcely happen in ordinary business. If the most conscientious architect use every means in his power to make his estimates correct, and employ all his I precautions during the carrying on of the work, it will almost always happen that the 1 cost will somewhat exceed the estimate from unforeseen circumstances ; on which account lit is prudent to add something to the estimate for contingencies and extras : and should 1 these turn out to be considerable, the architect will suffer in the estimation of his eni- ; ployer, while the trifling increase in his commission will by no means be an equivalent ■ for his loss of reputation. It is therefore so nmch his interest to keep within his estimate ; : and such is the general desire of architects to do so, that the motives sometimes appre- hended are scarcely possible. The honourable architect, however, has a double duty to perform : he is not to consider himself as acting for the interest of his employer only, but he is likewise to do justice to the tradesmen under him, by allowing them reasonable and customary prices, provided the work is properly executed. The tradesman thus has tiie least possible temptation to C 4