ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. 95 hUAP. III. r.-oduction of heat when employed as fuel. Thus the value of an elm of one hundred i.-ars is, for this purpose, better than one of thirty years, in the proportion of twelve to iiine ; and of ash of one hundred years to one of thirty years, as fifteen to eleven. When vees begin to decay, their value-as fuel rapidly diminishes. ■ 411. Tlie wood used in heating ovens for baking bread generally consists of small branches r' trees, made into what are called faggots. A Faggot is a bundle of any sort of small wood, consisting of the spray and shoots of lees of three or four years old, tied closely up together by means of a withe, which is a lame given to very small splittings of willow, hazel, or some other pliable wood, twisted. nhey are mostly made up from the cuttings or thinnings of underwoods and coppices, and idC prunings or superfluous branches of a spray of hedges. They give a clear and rapid i?at, and they are sold to those bakers or others who use wood. In making up these i;andles, the workmen trim off the superfluous spreading branches from the sides and ends, lihich gives them a neater appearance. The trimmings are put into the middle of the iggot. Formerly, when wood was the fuel of the country, and before coal was used, liggots were regularly kept as part of the stock of fuel. As they kindle readily, and give ! great quantity of flame, they are used where a strong and quick heat is required ; but i ! they burn away proportionally soon, they are not fit for an ordinary durable fire : 1: conjunction with other wood, they supply the means of producing any degree of increase I ' heat that may be wanted. They require to be very dry. On the Continent, where the paartments are heated by means of stoves, branches of this kind are much employed in wem. 412. Cones of the fir particularly of the pine, which are found dropped on the rround in the autumn and winter are extremely inflammable ; in the north of Italy, these Ke collected, and much used for kindling their wood fires, as they are easily set on a blaze vy the flame of a candle, and they cause the fire to burn briskly. 413. Wood is analysed by distillation in close vessels, as in the process for making pyro- :-gneous acid. The first product that comes over is the watery vapour or steam from the ; loisture in the wood, mixed with pyroligneous acid. Next follows a considerable evolu- ■on of gas, which is inflammable, being hydrogen combined with a small portion of aarbon, not usually above half the density of coal gas, and not affording nearly so strong 1 liglit. Then follows carbonic oxide, a gas consisting of carbon, with its minimum of xxygen. But though the gas from the combustion of wood, containing less carbon than aat from coal, gives less light, it gives more heat than coal gas : and hence we see the liason why the flame of wood is so much more efficacious in making a vessel boil than lae flame of coal. The purer the hydrogen the greater affinity it has for oxygen ; and iderefore the more rapidly it burns: the addition of carbon to the hydrogen retards the I ombustion, and diminishes the heat, though the light is increased by it. That the most ■iitense heat results from the attraction of oxygen and hydrogen for each other is shown yy the hydro-oxygen blow-pipe, in which a stream of each gas coming together is ignited 1; the point of contact. The fuel that contains most hydrogen wiU give out the greatest nuantity of heat. But to produce the greatest effect of fuel, it is necessary that it should ee put in close vessels, and that the heat evolved shall be carried to one spot, instead if being suffered to radiate and become dissipated by escaping into the atmosphere. This is the cause of the great heat produced by a few sticks in such culinary vessels as Me " conjurors, " or in closed fire-places, and of the great waste by boiling kettles over an ppen fire. See " Culinary Apparatus." 414. There are many cases in domestic economy lohere wood cut into small pieces is the lifieapest fuel, a circumstance too much neglected. Count Rumford was of tliis opinion ; r.nd states, that in very small fires for some purposes, it is the most cleanly, the most con- ■ enient, and most manageable fuel. He found by experience that any given quantity of ' ood, burned in a closed fire-place, gives very near three times as much heat as it would ive if reduced to charcoal, and burned in the same fire-place. Another great advantage t'f using wood for closed fire-places, is the quantity of flame it affords, and the facility with +hich it may be kindled and put out by a damper. Sect. II. CHARCOAI.. 415. Charcoal is extremely valuable as a fuel, and possesses peculiar properties. It is ' le carbonaceous part of wood, or the carbon alone which remains after the otiier elements, liie oxygen and hydrogen, have been, volatilised by combustion. Charcoal is not any lart of the wood altered by burning, according to the vulgar notion ; but it existed in lae wood originally, and is only made apparent by the escape of the other ingredients. 416. When a Irranch of charcoal is examined by the microscope, it exhibits the structure ff the tree in its living state; for what is the woody fibre of the j)lant, and which may be