Chap. VII. 667 ON THE PRODUCTION OF COLD. bonate of potash till the acid taste is totally destroyed, and then the burning taste of the acrid substance8 will bu perceived, wliereas pure vinegar leaves a sense of cold ; or evaporate a little of tiie vinegar to be tried in a watch-glass or saucer, and likewise a little vinegar known to be pure ; by touching with the tongue what remains, the hot substiuices will be discovered. 3764. To ascertain the strt-nf-th of vinegar, find how much chalk or marble powder )t will dissolve with modor.ite heat. As a guide, good wine vinegar will dissolve rather more than the twelfth part of its weight of carbonate of lime. It will dissolve less in proportion as it is weaker. By observing how much any good vinegar will dissolve, it is easy to compare any other sample with it. 3765. Various substances are used to flavour vinegar, as condiments; thus we have cucumber -vinegar; capsicum vin.; garlic vin. ; shallot vin. ; onion vin.; caper yin ; cress-seed vin. ; celery-seed vin.; tniffle vin.; Seville orange-peel vin. ; ginger vin.; black pepper vin. ; white pepper vin,; Chillie vin. ; horse-radish vin.; tarragon vin.; basU vin. ; green mint vin.; elder-flower vin. ; celery vin. ; Cherville vin.; Burnet vin.; orange flower vin.: all these are made by steeping about an ounce of the several articles each in a pint of the best vinegar for fourteen days, and straining; it is then bottled. Foi* the particular receipts for making them, see the article " Flavouring Ingre- dients," under the Section " Cookery." The wood vinegar, or crystal vinegar of the shops, is the best for receiving flavours, having scarcely any of its own. CHAP. VII. ON THE PEODUCTION OF COLD, PARTICULARLY FOR COOLING LIQUIDS ; AND THE CONSTRUCTION OF AJ!T ICE-HOUSE. 3766. Tlie cooling of liquors in domestic economy has at all times been a practice of general prevalence in warm countries, and during the heat of summer even in colder climates. When the temperature of the air is above 70°, cooled liquors become not merely a luxury, but are considered in some countries as an article of the first necessity. The languor which is induced by heat is in a great measure relieved by artificial cooling; and invalids, in many cases, receive great benefit from the use of cooled liquors. 3767. The custom of preserving snow during the summer for this purpose has prevailed among oriental nations from the earliest ages. In the Book of Proverbs we read, " as the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him ; for he refreshes the soul of his masters :" and we learn from various passages in the wri- tings of ancient authors, that the Greeks and Romans were long familiar with this luxury. In the time of Seneca, snow collected from the mountains and preserved in deep pits had become an important article of merchandise in Rome, was sold in the shops, and even hawked about the streets. The following passage from Mr. Lumisden's " Remarks on the Antiquities of Borne " describes the present method of managing this matter. " A little above Rocca di Pappa (on the ancient Mons Albanus) is a plain called Hannibal's Camp. It is here that the snow is collected annually for the use of Rome. On this dry plain they dig pits, without any buildings, about fifty feet deep, and twenty-five broad at top, in the form of a sugar-loaf or cone. The larger the pit, the snow, no doubt, will preserve the better. About three feet from the bottom they commonly fix a wooden grate, which serves for a drain, if any of the snow should happen to melt, which otherwise would stagnate, and hasten the dissolution of the rest. The pit thus formed, and lined with straw and prunings of trees, is filled with snow, which is beat down as hard as possible, till it becomes a solid body. It is afterwards covered with more prunings of trees, and a roof raised in form of a low cone, well thatched over with straw. A door is left at the side, covered likewise with straw, by which men enter and cut out the ice, for such it becomes, with a mattock. The quantity daily demanded is carried (o Rome, in the night-time, in carts well covered with straw. It is found by experience that snow thus pressed down is not only colder, but preserves longer, than cakes of ice taken from ponds or ditches." 3768. The use of snow to cool liquors at the tables of the great does not appear to have been common in any country besides Italy and the neighbouring states, before the end of the sixteenth centm-y. At that time there were no ice-cellars in France. But towards- the end of that century, under the reign of Henry III., this refinement was well known at the French court; and although at first it was considered as a mark of excessive and effeminate luxury, it soon became general in France, and towards the end of the seventeenth century dealers found the sale of snow and ice a profitable trade. 3769. The method^ of improving the cooling power of snow by mixing with it various salts is a modem invention. The Italians were the first by whom it was employed. About the year 1.550, all the water as well as wine drunk by the wealthy in Rome was cooled by a mixture of snow and saltpetre, and afterwards common salt was substituted for the latter. Lord Bacon, who died in 1626, was acquainted with the cooling properties of snow with saltpetre or with common salt so as to freeze water, but says that he had never tried the experiment. Soon after this time the French made the discovery in the art of cookery of congealing by cold a variety of agreeable juices, and of forming ice-creams and other luxuries of that class. 3770. The most ancient method of using snnw or ice was by putting a small quantity of it into the liijuor to be drunk ; but afterwards a more elegant method was employed by