Chap. XVI. 303 GLASS. 1337. Glass-ina/iimj appears to have been knoiun in Eyypt. at least before the year 1800 before our era. Judging from ancient Egyptian paintings at Beni Hassan, wliich appear to indicate the process, an ancient glass bead, bearing the name of one of the Egyptian Pharaohs, who lived at the period alluded to, leaves no doubt as to its early use in the valley of the Nile. The Egyptians were not only acquainted with glass, but knew how to stain it of various colours ; for many articles of coloured glass, made with extraordinary skill, are discovered among the antiquities of that country. 1338. But Ike art of depriving glass entirely of colour, and rendering it as transparent as cri/stal, were subsequent improvements. It appears that a very extraordinary value was piit upon some vessels of transparent glass which the Emperor Adrian received at Alex- andria; and from some small panes of glass, thick and not very transparent, which have been found in the windows of antique baths in Pompeii, it appears that these were not unknown to the Romans latterly ; among them, however, this employment of glass never became general. When windows in private dwellings were required, various contri- vances were resorted to, as lattices, parchment, and transparent membranes, or linen stretched across frames, and even thin plates of semi-transparent stones, as mica, selenite, or alabaster. In warm climates, the necessity for excluding the air and cold by these means was not so obvious as in colder countries ; and for common houses, glass is at this day very little used in many parts of Spain, Portugal, and the East. Although the employment of glass, for admitting light into private houses, appears to have been but little practised among the ancients, yet drinking vessels and bottles of glass were latterly sufficiently common among the wealthier classes, this circumstance being mentioned by Horace, Pliny, and other classic authors, and numerous specimens of these have been found in the ruins of Pompeii. Glass was introduced into India by the Europeans; and it is said that the Chinese to this day are only able to make glass vessels out of broken glass made in Europe. 1339. The Venetians were the fust Europeans lolio excelled in the mamifacture of glass; and panes for windows used to be imported into Britain for churches in the fourth and fifth centuries ; but their employment appears to have been at that time limited to ecclesiastical buildings, and the comfort of glazed windows in domestic edifices was little known even down to a very late period. In the year 1567 the glass casements of Alnwick Castle were only put in when the lordly proprietor visited the place, and were taken out and put aside for safety when he was absent, which may give us an idea of their rarity at that period. It is supposed that glass windows were first introduced into gentlemen's houses about the reign of Henry VIII., and that they were not used in farm- houses prior to James I. In Scotland, so late as 1661, the windows of ordinary houses were not glazed, and only the king's palaces could boast of this advantage. Previous to the use of glass in England, windows were filled with wicker work, or with lattices of oak laths placed checker-wise. In some cases the rich used casements filled with panes of horn. Sect. II. COMPOSITION OF GLASS. 1340. Notwithstanding the extraordinary beauty and singular properties of glass, it is I made from materials which are very abundant and easily procured. Glass of some kind 1 may be made by exposing a mixture of various earthy and saline materials to a high I degree of heat, by which they are fused or vitrified. 1341. But for that kind of glass so valuable in domestic economy two sitbsiances are essential, r namely, siliceous earth in a state of considerable purity, and an alkali. Siliceous earth, in its 'various states of quartz, sand, flint, &c., is infusible by itself in the most powerful furnace; i but when mixed with a certain quantity of any alkali, the mass fuses very readily, and f glass is the result. Nothing, therefore, is easier than to make mere glass ; but the trans- iparency and perfection of this substance depend upon a proper selection and management f of the materials : without this, the glass will turn out to be almost opaque and very im- 1 perfect. Both soda and potash are employed as the alkalies : they are used in the state of carbonates, and the carbonic acid flies off during the process, leaving the alkali by itself I to combine with the silica. For the very best glass, pure alkali is necessary ; but for the inferior sorts the coarser likinds of alkali, as barilla, kelp, or wood ashes, are made use of. Lime, an alkaline earth, Ills also used occasionally as a flux. In almost all the materials commonly employed there lare more or less of impurities which would injure the glass ; besides, therefore, the sBilica and alkali, certain additions to these ingredients are made in the best kinds, in order t<to destroy the colour and opacity that would otherwise result, oi- to give the glass par- tticular properties. Nitre and oxide of manganese are added to get rid of colouring nmatters ; hence the latter has been called glass-makers' soap: but if too much manganese las used, the glass will have a purple tinge : a small quantity of arsenic is used for the ssamc purpose. The latter is not free from danger to health, if the glass should contain