FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. HAP. X. 259 1165. Since it is almost impossible to find good situations for many pictures in a ; loderately-sized house, the best mode is to place them in a gallery built on purpose, if ley are numerous, and there justice may be done to them all. The modes of warming ^)' steam or hot water render such an apartment agreeable on a visit paid to it in the oldest weather. 1166. Artificial fioxoers are beautiful ornaments ; and are useful, since the natural ones lannot be had at all times and in all seasons; those of wax, in particular, so closely .-"semble real flowers, that the imitation seems quite perfect, and they well deserve uatronage. 1167. Many of those objects which are classed as curiosities may be considered as i.amiture, since they are frequently employed in the decoration of apartments; the taste :>T collecting them has been often ridiculed, but it is not deservedly so, except when little ladgment is employed, or when carried to excess. 1168. Engravings are little used at present as ornaments in rooms, though they were )ome years ago. Many, however, well deserve this distinction, although in general the Safect of many engravings hung on walls is much inferior to that of pictures and draw- ings. 1169. Minerals and other objects of natural history iona admirable ornaments for rooms; aut they should be kept under glass, otherwise they soon spoil by the dust and smoke, Dod cannot be restored to their original beauty. A small cabinet with glass doors would ee an agreeable and entertaining acquisition in almost any apartment. "We frequently see 11 drawing rooms elegant little tables covered with common and useless toys in porcelain, rr figures ill painted on cards, for which more money has been given to the fancy shops haan would have purchased works of art of great beauty and merit: while some again mrow away money upon bad copies of old pictures that have been recently brought T'om the garret of the painter, after he has employed his talents in smoking and cracking laem, that they may the better imitate the originals. Sect. XII. TAPESTRY, EUBROIDERY, AND FILIGREE. 1170. Tapestry was much employed in ancient times for covering the walls of apartments HI magnificent houses. The term is derived from the Latin tapes, the cover of a wall or eed, from whence also comes the French tapisser, to line ; and it has sometimes been ppplied as a general name for all kinds of hangings, whether woven or wrought with the iceedle, and whether silken, woollen, linen, leather, or paper: but it is now appropriated to a i ind of woven hangings of wool and silk, adorned with scenic representations in imitation iff paintings. 1171. The earliest embroidery and tapestry were the work of the needle; and we find in hae Scriptures mention of rich dresses and various ai'ticles of furniture ornamented in this k7ay with coloured silks, worsted, and gold thread. The Medes, Persians, and Babylo- );:ians, were celebrated for their tapestry and embroidery: and the Egyptian women Particularly excelled in this work, from whom the Israelites derived the knowledge of it. rrhese arts were a favourite occupation of the Grecian ladies, and the labours of Penelope nave become proverbial. Robes ornamented by embroidery were general among the jireeks and Romans, and this fashion has come down to modern times. Some considerable works in tapestry, worked by the needle, had been executed in riiJermany, France, and England, soon after the third century, particularly for catholic ihhurches and convents, and often by ladies of the highest rank. The most remarkable "f these now existing is the Bayeux tapestry, the work of Matilda, wife of William the NWorman conqueror. This magnificent example of ancient female industry is 227 feet 'ong, and 20 inches wide: it contains 530 figures representing the various scenes of the NWorman invasion, and is kept in the town hall of Rouen as a precious relic. It is worked nn different coloured worsteds, on cloth originally white, but now become brown : the ' 'olours are preserved tolerably bright. The drawing of the figures is, as might be vxpected from the state of the arts when it was executed, stiff and rude, but the costimies 't)f the time having been carefully attended to, the whole is very illustrative. 1172. // appears that in Chaucer's time tapestry was much used in England tor decorating I'lhe walls of apartments belonging to wealthy persons, but it was worked in gaudy colours, mnd hence was more useful tlian elegant, contributing much, however, to comfort in liaouses where the bad finishing admitted innumerable draughts of air; but the best Uapestries were only put up when the rooms were inhabited : a few of these tapestries s'itiU remain in ancient mansions. When the walls of rooms were furnished with moveable haangings, other materials, as leather flowered and gilt in various patterns, and silk, were fr'requently employed. 1173. It is not known exactly at what period the weaving of tapestry by the loom was first