1033 CUAP. VI. SHAVING. frequently with soap and water and a soft brush, much attention is, perhaps, not requisite. When they are chapped in winter, they may be covered with one of the pastes mentioned among the receipts for pomades, and cold cream is often an agreeable remedy. The nails require particular care, otherwise they are apt to become coarse and split. The skin at the root is disposed to grow too far down, and when it does, it should be removed. Nails, when in their best state, have so much transparency that the colour of the flesh beneath is seen through, and they have a fine polish. Nothing is more unseemly than not to clean out below the nails regularly every morning, and they should be kept properly pared, neither too long nor too short. The feet require equal care. They should be frequently washed; and, above all things, tight shoes should be avoided, if it be wished to keep away corns. When these, or chilblains occur, the directions should be followed that are given in Book XXVI. The toe nails are best cut with scissors or nail-nippers : in paring them with a pen-knife elderly persons are apt to wound the flesh, which to them is sometimes dangerous, the circulation in the extremities being so feeble that mortification is occasionally the consequence of a slight wound. CHAP. VI. SHAVING. 6121. Various have been, and still are, the customs respecting the beard among 1 dificrent nations. Ancient writers have made honourable mention of the fine beards of ; antiquity. Homer describes the white and flowing beards of Nestor and of Priam, and Strabo relates that the gymnosophists of India were solicitous to make the length of their beards an object of popular veneration. The Romans did not begin to shave till the year ' of Rome 454, when a number of barbers were brought into Italy. The custom, however, never became universal, and we find some of the Roman emperors with, and others without, this ornament. The ancient Germans and Franks generally wore only mus- ■ tachios ; but the Normans had a great aversion to any part of the beard, and William the Conqueror found some difficulty in compelling the English to follow their example in removing the whole of the beard. In the fourteenth century beards were again in fashion ; but towards the close of the sixteenth they were reduced to mustachios, and, by degrees, : afterwards shaving the whole face became general. The Russians were long extremely tenacious of their beards, and among the Turks it is considered infamous to have it cut oft'. The Jews wear a beard on the chin, but not on the upper lip, and they, as well as the Turks, have been in the habit of anointing and perfuming it. Notwithstanding, however, the great fondness for and respect very generally paid to the beard, there are certainly numerous inconveniences in this male appendage, and modern cleanliness had banished it from the British islands, though it seems of late to be much inclined to re-appear amongst us 6122. Every oue knows how desirable it is to shave with comfort, and to do this proper apparatus is essential. Previously to the operation of using the razor, the face should be washed with lepid, not warm, water, and a good lather laid on with a proper brush : some prefer cold water. The soap is to be rubbed to a lather in a soap-dish or shaving-box; others prefer first wetting the beard and rubbing the cake of soap on the face, and making the lather with the brush on the skin, which is the most effectual way when the beard is very strong. Instead of soap some use shaving-paste, which may be made by melting together one drachm each of almond oil, white wax, and spermaceti; beat it up with rose-water and a square of Windsor soap. A liquid for shaving may be made by dissolving eight ounces of Castile soap in a pint of spirits of wine. After the operation the face ought to be washed with cold water, and the razor wiped dry, either with a cloth or piece of wash-leather : it is usually dipped into hot water prior to using it; a practice, however, not always necessary. 6123. A good pair, or set, of razors is essential, and the safest method is to procure them of a respectable cutler ; not but that many common and cheap razors turn out very good, for the value of the material is little, and the steel made in the way of ordinary manufacture sometimes happens to be of very good quality, but this is an uncertainty. G124. A keen edge may be kept on the razor for some time by the use of the strop, and some recommend stropping it every time after it has been used, and before it is put by. The reddish material with which one side of razor-strops are covered is a preparation called crocus martis, an oxide of iron, made into a paste with hog's lard or spermaceti ointment; the other side of the strop is covered with fine black lead and lard. There is some art in stropping a razor well ; if done badly the edge is apt to be rounded. It is Rouvenieut to keep some of the paste in a box, and to put occasionally a little upon the