Book XIII. 882 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 4949. Ribs of beef honed and rolled like a fillet of veal roasted.—A stuffing of bread, egg, and sweet herbs, is sometimes rolled up with the meat; but more frequently it is dressed siniply, as roasted before a brisk fire, and having an allowance of time longer than that given to the sirloin of equal weight, in consideration of the solid mass into which the beef thus prepared is formed. 4950. Broiled rump-steaks. — Rump steaks should always be chosen fi-ora the best part of the rump, after it has hung a length of time sufficient to render it tender. If the ■weather is unfavourable for hanging meat, it is customary, after cutting off the steaks of the thickness of half an inch, to beat them with a roUiug-pin. Lay the fat part of the steak towards the handle of the gridiron, and turn it with a pair of steak tongs. If more gravy bo tlesired than that wliich the moat yields of itself, it may be procured by broiling a tliick piece of gravy meat, (such as part of the chuck); and when three-parts done, by putting it on a dish, scoring it with a knife, .ami sprinkling salt upon it; this draws out a quantity of pure gravy, which being collected and kept hot m.ay be divided between each dish of steaks successively sent to table. Amongst thecon.liments usually served with broiled beef-ste.iks are minced eschalots, scriipcd horse-radish,. walnut-pickle, or hot pot, and oyster sauce, served hot in a tureen. 4951. Beefsteaks fried— The fat and lean should be done separately. A hot dish should be in readiness to receive the lean while the fat is frying. Both being done, the butter or fat in the pan must be poured away, and some beef gravy, an anchovy, a small onion, some pepper and salt, must be put into tlie piuj, boiled up in it, and while hot poured into the dish. 4952. Cold rtiasted beef dressed tike beef-steaks. — Cut off tiie outside of the meat, and divide it into slices about half an inch in thickness. Slice two or three onions, and fry them in some butter till they are of a light brown ; be careful not to burn them, or tlic gravy will be spoiled. Take them out of the pan, and then fiy the beef of a light brown also. If too much fried it will be liard and dried ; but when sufficiently dune, remove it from the pan to the dish on which it is to be sent to table; pour away the fat from the frying-pan, and put into it a small lump of butter into which some flour has been worked, some water or gravy, two tea- spoonfuls of mushroom and two of walnut ketchup, one of anchovy essence ; to this a t.ible-spoohfnl of red wine may be added or not, according to taste. The fried onions must be boiled up in this gravy, and the whole poured over the beef. 4953. Beef tongues A salted tongue, if dried, must be soaked for some hours previous to being dressed. It must then be put into cold water, and gently brought to boiling; when, after the surface of the water is cleared from the scum, the saucepan must be removed from the fire only so far as to reduce the boiling to a gentle simmering. If dried, a tongue will require four hours', if simply salted, only three hours' boiling. AVhile hot, the outer skin of the tongue must be peeled off, and it may be sent to table either glazed or plain. Boiled turnips are a usual accompaniment of boiled tongue. 4954. Boiled tongue, if to be eaten cold, may be rolled, bound by a tin band, and pressed down into a solid mass. When boiled and skinned, the small gristly bones near the throat must be removed, the root end must form the centre, and the tip being brought to the outside is kept in place by the tin bandage ; weights are then placed upon it, and it is suffered to remain thus for ten or twelve hours; and on removing the bandage the whole will form a compact fillet, whence slices of fat and lean together may be conve- niently cut. 4955. Roasted tongue.—Parboil a tongue that has only been salted about ten days; ► roast, baste it with red wine, and frost it at last with butter. Serve it with a rich gravy and sweet sauce. 4956. Stewed tongue. — Simmer it for two hours in water, only sufficient to cover it; then peel it and put it back into the water, adding to it, tied up in a piece of muslin, some pepper, mace, and cloves. Cut some turnips and capers very small, slice some carrots, and add these also to the liquor, with half a pint of beef gravy, a wine glass of white wine, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew all together very gently for an hour and a half longer, then take out the spice and sweet herbs, and thicken the gravy with flour worked into a small piece of butter. 4957. Bei^f tongue may be dressed in various ways. — Slices of hot tongue ni.iy be pared, glazed, and neatly arranged round a dish, the centre of which may be filled with any vegetable pulp or mash, as turnip, spinach, green peas, sorrel, &c. Slices of tongue pared and highly seasoned may be dipped in egg and bre.id.crnmbs. fried, and served up with any of these pulps, or eaten with becliamelle sauce. A layer of the white meat of cold masted fowl may be included between two thin slices o( tongue fried in the same manner, and sent up with the same sauce, or placed on an artichoke bottom dressed with melted butter, consomme, .md ^'^1^^%I Beef palates Take h.alf a dozen beef palates, rub them with s.ilt, ,nnd let them simmer a few minutes in any broth, that the external ikin may be removed; then divide them into convenient portions. Molt in a stew-p.in some butter and flour, and moisten with beef gravy; when of a proper consistence, put in the palates, and let them stew till sufliciently tender. Season accordmg to your t,iste. There are many ways of dressing palates ; they may be served up with bcchaniello sauce and pickled mush- rooms • or they m.-iy be rolled up and contain forced meat, brushed over with egg, dipped in bread-crumbs, fried, and served in any rich sauce. In the same manner they may be rolled up and include thin slices of ham and truffles, and sent to table with cucumber, toniata, or celery sauce under them. 4')59 Coto's udder is usually roasted with a tongue that has been in pickle not more than three d.iys. They are both parboiled, and then tieil together and roasted. They are serveil with good gravy and currant- ^'4Mfio""coiV's heel. —Gei one that has only been scalded, not boiled till the jelly has been cxtr.icted. Boil it for seven or eight hours in a quart of water, which, if required, m.->y be afterwards made mto jcl'y <>[ s<">P- 'I'hc heel cut into handsome slices and covered with egg and bread-crumbs must he fried of a light brown, and laid round a dish, in the centre of which some onions sliced and fried also must be put.