C39 Chap. IV. RECEIPTS FOR MAKING WINES. Another reccipl. —White currants nine gallons, white gooseberries one gallon, white sugar twenty-five pounds, white tartar an ounce, bitter almonds two ounces, water nine giillons, brandy one gallon. 3,'i8'i Mr. Carnell'.i receipt for making red currmit wine.—Bruise ciglit gallons of n^d currants with one quart of raspberries. Press out the juice, and to the residuum, after pressure, add eleven gallons of cold water. Add two pounds of beet root, sliced iis thin as possible, to give colour, and let them infuse, with frequent mixture, for twelve hours ; then press out the liquor as belore, and add it to the juice. Next dissolve twenty poimds of raw sugar in the mixed liquor, and three ounces of red tartar in fine powder. In some hours the fermentation will commence, which is to be managed according to the details given for gooseberry wine, and the principles we have stated previously. When the fermentation is completely over, add one gallon of brandv : let the wine stand for a week, then rack off, and let it stand for two months. It may now be finally racked off, bunged up in the cask, and set by in a cool cellar, for as many years as may be required to ame- liorate it. 3583. Black currant wine may be made In the same manner, using six gallons of black currants, three gal- lons of strawberries, twenty-five pounds of raw sugar, four ounces of red tartar, ten gallons of cold water, and three quarts of brandy. SuBSECT. 6. — Elderberry Wine. 3584. The elderberry is well adapted for the production of wine. Its juice contains a considerable portion of the principle necessary for a vigorous fermentation, and its beau- tiful colour communicates a rich tint to the wine made from it. It is, however, deficient in sweetness, and therefore demands an addition of sugar. There are several methods of making this wine. The following are some of the most approved receipts: — 3.58.5. Take one gallon of ripe elderberries and one quart of damsons or sloes for every two gallons of wine to be made. Boil the fruit in about half the quantity of water till they burst, breaking them frequently with a stick. Strain the liquor, and return it to the copper. To produce eiglitecn gallons of wine twenty gallons of this liquor is necessary ; and for whatever quantity the liquor falls short of this, water must be added to make up. Boil this together with fifty-six lbs. of coarse moist sugar for half an hour, and it is to be fer- mented in the usual manner when sufficiently cooled, and then it is to be tunned, or put into the cask. Put I now into a muslin bag a pound and a half of ginger bruised, a pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon, and I four or six ounces of lions ; suspend the bag with the spice in the cask by a string not long enough to let it I touch the bottom ; let the liquor work in the cask for a fortnight, and fill up in the usual manner. The wine ' will be fit to tap in two months, and is not improved by keeping, like many other wines. Elderberries alone I may be used. 3586. Anotlier method.— Elderberries ten gallons, water ten gallons, white sugar forty-five pounds, red I tartar eight ounces, fermented with yeast in the usual manner. When in the cask, ginger root sliced or all- • spice four ounces, bitter almonds three ounces, suspended in a bag, may be allowed to infuse in the liquor 1 while it is fermenting ; they are then to be removed. Brandy may he added or not. When the wine is clear, 1 which will be in about three months, it may be drawn off from the lees, and bottled. The spices may be 1 varied according to taste. SuBSECT. 7. — Cherry Wine. 3587. An excellent wine may be made from cherries Pick Morello cherries, not over ripe, from their i stalks; niiash them in a mortar and pan to detach the pulp without bruising the stones, and suffer the mass t to stand twenty-four hours. Press the pulp through a coarse hair sieve, and to every three gallons add from . eight to nine pounds of loaf sugar. Put the mixture into a cask, add yeast, and sulTcr it to ferment; then r rack the wine from its lees as soon as it becomes clear. Some persons crack the stones, and hang them with t the bruised kernels in a bag suspended from the bung-holes in the cask, during the fermentation of the wine, > which thus acquires a nutty flavour. Mr. Tooke informs us that they make a good deal of this wine in Russia, land that they add some honey to the cherries. 3-588. Damson or black cherry wine— Infuse together for twenty-four hours eight gallons of the fruit, p eleven gallons of warm water, thirty pounds of sugar, six ounces of red tartar, breaking the fruit as in the cease of the elderberries. Break one-eighth part of the cherry-stones, and add them to the marc. Strain and f ferment as usual. The rest of the process as in currant wine. 3589. French method qf making cherry wine Bruise together fifteen pounds of cherries not quite ripe, and I two of currants ; add two-thirds of the cherry kernels. Put the whole in a small cask with a quarter of a ppound of sugar to each quart of juice. Let the cask stand in sand, and cover the bung lightly while it is • working, which will occupy nearly three weeks. The cask should be of the size just to hold the juice, or the latter must be made up in the above proportions to the size of the cask, as it is necessary it should be full. 1. Carry on the fermentation in the usual manner, as in grape or gooseberry wine. When the fermentation is oover, bung up the cask, and in about two months the wine will be fit to be drawn off and bottled. SuBSECT. 8.—Mxdberry Wine. 3-590. Gather the mulberries before they are quite ripe, bruise them in a tub, and to every quart of the tbruised berries, put the same quantity of water. Let the mixture stand for twenty-four hours, and then •'Strain it through a coarse sieve ; having added to every gallon of the diluted juice three or four pounds of ^ sugar, allow it to ferment in the usual manner; when fine in the cask, bottle it. SuBSECT. 9.—Apricot Wine. 3-591. Take apricots when nearly ripe, remove the stones, and bruise the pulp in a mortar. To eight pounds of the pulp add a quart of water ; allow the mixture to stand for twenty-fonr hours, and then squeeze out the juice ; .-idd to every g.allon of it two pounds of loaf siigar ; put it into a cask and ferment it, and when perfectly clear bottle it. Peach wine may be made in a similar manner. SnBSECT. 10. — Strawberry or Ra.ipberry Wine. 3-592. Bruise .md press out the juice of either fruits. Pour on the marc seven gallons of water ; infuse for liwclve hours, and press out the liquor; add this liquor to the juice, and mix them with six gallons of cyder. (Dissolve in the mixture sixteen pounds of raw sugar, and three ounces of powdered red tartar, and then set tit to ferment in the usual manner. Pare the rinds of two lemons and of two oranges, and, together with lithe juice, throw them into the fermenting tub, and take out the rinds wlien the fermentation is over. Three jrgallons of brandy may be added. In making raspberry wine a gallon of red and white currant juice should i>oe added, and an equal qu.intity of water left out.