HOUSEHOLD CLEANING. (Chap. II. 345 1628. OiZor other grease dropped on marble or stone may be removed by laying on !the stains a mixture of strong soap kes with fullers' earth and pipe-eiay -well dried, and 1 powdered. When laid thickly on, a ilat iron, made tolerably warm, must be put on and ^suffered to remain until the mixture is dried. And if on washing the part the stain be mot eradicated, the mixture and iron must be applied either once or twice more. 1629. Sto7iejloors and stone stairs are sometimes scrubbed with sand and water, sonie- ttimes with the hearth-stone, or with pipe clay prepared after the following receipt. Boil half a pint of size with the same quantity of whiting and pipe-clay in two quarts oof water; the stones must be first washed clean with water, and this mixture afterwards iilaid smoothly on them with a flannel; when dry they must be rubbed with a dry cloth or dflannel. Stone floored kitchens and ofiices, stone hearths, stone steps, and balconies, are usually Mwashed with a flannel and water, and, while wet, scrubbed with the hearthstone. Steps at the entrances of houses are washed and whitened every day in town, in the ocountry scarcely more than once a week ; stone kitchens twice a week, balconies only uonce. SuBSECT. 5. — Cleaning Areas, Dust-holes, Sfc. 1630. Jn the areas of town houses, together with the offices opening into them, cleanli- nness is as requisite to the comfort, and perhaps health, of a family, as in the interior of a hhouse. 1631. 77ie dust-hole, often opening into one of the areas of town houses, and being thus idn close vicinity to the windows, cannot be sutFered to remain long unemptied without cconsiderable inconvenience, especially in the warm seasons of the year, when the fermen- t;tation, both of the vegetable and animal substances, produce noxious exhalations. On :ithis account, it should be a rule not to throw any animal or vegetable substances into the ci dust-hole, but to dispose of them some other way. 1632. In London, parochial arrangements are established for clearing away from every hhouse all its refuse, at short intervals. 1633. The men employed in this business are not entitled to any direct remuneration fifrom the inhabitants, their services being paid for by the contractors who employ them. liBut they often refuse to remove any unusual degree of rubbish in the shed-hole without l*eing paid for it. It is well to know that they have no right to this, and a redress may be hhad by applying to the contractor himself. ScBSECT. 6. — Cleaning Windows. 1634. In large towns it is usual to employ glaziers to clean the windows; and they boeing used to the business, do it most effectually and expeditiously: the mode is, first to diust them with putty-powder (sold at the oil shops under that name), enclosed in a linen Ioag, afterwards rubbing it off with two wash leathers, one a little damp and the other oerfectly dry: a sponge and cold soap and water some employ; but the panes, if wetted, are seldom sO thoroughly and immediately dried as not to catch the dust again almost as ioon as it has been cleaned oif. 1635. To clean windows expeditiously two persons should be employed, one within the room, the other on the outside the window, the latter standing securely on the glazier's machine, unless the sashes are double hung, in which case the upper windows may be deaned while the outside person merely sits on the sill, his legs being within the room, and his back to the street; but this is a dangerous practice for any one to attempt except I professed glazier. 1636. Uncleaned windows give a dismal and untidy appearance to a house. When the cle.ining of windows is to be paid for each time, there may be considerations of economy to be ■nded to, which may prevent its being done as frequently as would be otherwise agreeable and desirable, fre no such reasons determine the periods of cleaning windows, it should be done in most of the rooms lii e in a fortnight. Where men-servants are kept, and great attention to appearance paid, sitting rooms hould have their windows cleaned once a week, and even more frequently in rainy weather. Those who .ave to pay a glazier each time, who generally charges Grf. each window, if he clean both inside and out, nntent themselves with having it done once in three months, trusting to their housemaid to keep them in olcrable condition, which she may easily do by frequently cleaning the inside of the panes. Sect. II. CLEANING ROOMS AND FURNITURE. SuDSECT. 1.— Sweeping and Dusting. 1637. Sweeping is an art of a simple nature, but which to do well requires practice lond care. The broom, in the hands of a thoughtless girl, may do more harm than good,