1223 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. other states of the patient, he may sit up in a chair, while two or three persons ruh his whole body with large sponges wetted, after which he is to be wiped dry and put into bed. The process should not be attempted while there is the smallest tendency to perspi- ration. Sponging is liltewise used successfully as a tonic to ward off disease. It is found particularly serviceable when a persoti is disposed to asthma, or the disease of the lining membrane of the bronchial, or air tubes leading to the lungs, commonly known by the name of a cold or common coiiyli. For that purpose the chest may be sponged daily, and afterwards well rubbed and dried, so as to cause a glow on the surface. In some cases salt and water, or vinegar and water, is preferable, and then much friction is not necessary. The best time for sponging is immediately on getting out of bed in the morning, wheu there is no perspiration. The effect is nearly similar to that of the shower-bath, render- ing the habit less susceptible of cold ; and, when followed by exercise in the open air, and proper regimen, increasing the appetite and digestion. Sponging with this view is said to be as efficacious as the shower-bath, and is.more proper for delicate habits. Fig, 915. is a shallow vessel used for spwnging: and to pre- vent taking cold during the operation, it may be per- Fig. 915. formed under a loose dressing-gown. SuBSECT. 8.— Warm Bath. 7202. This strictly includes the warm water, vapour, and air-bath, but the effects of these are different, and we shall first consider the warm water bath. The effects vary with the temperature, which ranges from 92° to 98°. When the heat is about 92°, though the first effect is slightly stimulating, yet when time is given for that influence to subside, it is gradually succeeded by soothed and tranquillised sensations, which generally allay slight degrees of local irritation of the nervous system. At a higher temperature, but under 96°, it has sometimes been imagined that the waitn bath relaxes and weakens, whereas it produces a contrary effect: it is found to raise the spirits, to mend the pulse and appetite, and to refresh and invigorate the whole frame. In consequence of its sooth- ing and agreeable impressions on the surface of the body, it produces very beneficial effects in certain disordered states of the alimentary canal originating in diminished action: but if the heat is considerably greater, or above 98°, the feelings are even painfully ex- cited, and the temporary stimulus js followed by a proportionate degree of exhaustion. The warm bath modifies the texture of the skin ; it increases the frequency of the pulse, and excites the superficial capillaries to increased action, and it also equalises the circulation of the blood. By relieving pain and irritation it acts as a sedative, and, by restoring deranged functions, it is an indirect tonic. The warm bath is seldom necessary, or taken, in perfect health, but it is very beneficial after fatigue or muscular exertion : in these cases the body should be allowed to rest and cool before the bath is taken. It is an in- valuable remedy after travelling, which with persons of delicate or feverish habits, even in the easiest carriage, for several successive days, is apt to produce defective secretions, and general irritation of the nervous system, more particularly if there be any tendency to chronic inflammation. It is likewise useful after long mental excitement, from what- ever cause, and in a variety of slight disorders of the system, such as nervous and spas- modic affections. It is effective in softening the skin, and enabling one to detach the scales which are on the surface in a state of partial decomposition, by which the function of perspiration becomes freer, and hence it is often beneficial even to the healthful. 7203. When the body is immersed in the wann bath, an agreeable sensation of warmth is perceived, the veins on the surface swell, the bulk of the body is increased a little, and tlie skin becomes redder than usual; the action of the heart is increased, and of course the pulse is quickened. In cases of disease, the warm bath should never be employed except by the advice of the medical practitioner. It is perilous to persons of full habit, who are liable to a flow of blood to the head, which the warm bath promotes. AMien used for the preservation of health alone, the salt-water warm bath is preferable to the fresh. In a warm bath it is essential that the original temperature, whatever that may be, should be kept up the whole time that the patient remains in the bath ; the temperature is best ascertained by the thermometer, of which a kind is made for this purpose. 7204. 77(6 time of immersion in the warm bath should be varied according to the tempe- rature of the water and the feelings of the patient. In a bath of 94° to 96°, a person may remain fifteen, twenty, or thirty minutes; much longer time will prove relaxing: many persons prefer 95° or 96° ; few lower than 93°. In a bath of 98°, or more, it will not be proper to remain so long, and indeed there are few persons that can bear to remain beyond ten minutes, and in the generality of cases not so long. Persons labouring under chronic rheumatism or palsy bear the highest degree of temperature best : these often require the hot bath. When sweating is desired (which will seldom happen except in cases of local inflammation) the warm bath should be used in the evening, and the patient