143 I Chap. III. CANDLES. little contrivance that has just made its Fig. 105. should be substituted instead of this, the paper would be more strongly illuminated, and .he shadow would appear darker ; but this increased intensity of shadow would be the 3flFect pf the contrast between the light and the shadow, the shadow would be really '.he same in both cases, but would appear darker, because opposed to a stronger light. In i:ill cases, therefore, of this kind, the stronger the light the darker the shadow will appear to foe. This simple contrivance, which is not, in fact, an instrument, is exceedingly useful "or ascertaining the comparative illuminating powers of lamps or candles. For instance, 10 determine how many candles any lamp may be equivalent to, place the lamp opposite .10 the paper at 8 feet distance, and then put candles quite close together, a little way off, jut at the same distance from the paper, adding to their number, till the shadows cast by ihem, and the shadow cast by the lamp, are of equal intensity, then the number of candles lased win show the power of the lamp. Sect. X. CANDLESTICKS. 668. Candlesticks are made in a great variety of forms, according to the several uses for i.vhich they are wanted, or the materials of which they are composed. Those of the •ichest kind are of gold or silver : they are also silver plated, of brass, bronze, or other lilloys, of tinware japanned, or plain : and sometimes of porcelain, and other earthenwares, ar of glass. 669. Candlesticks are no doubt as ancient as the use of candles: and, like them, were first nmade for churches ; in which many ancient specimens may be seen, some of extraordinary ichness. It would be impossible to enumerate all the varieties of this very useful iarticle of furniture, of which fashion is continually producing new forms, or restoring some •which have been long laid aside. Of these our shops exhibit gi'eat variety, many of oivhich have much merit. We must confine ourselves to presenting a few specimens of the principal varieties, and to pointing out some things of importance in their general construc- cion, as far as regards utility. 670. An inconvenience often attends the candlesticks in common use, which is, that the vjame socket does not fit any sized candle : and the consequence is, that candles are ^generally procured rather smaller than the socket, and must be made tight by papering in some way or other, an operation troublesome and unsightly ; and which becomes more mconvenient when the candle burns down near to the socket, as the paper often takes fire. 671. To remedy this, in appearance at least, coloured papers are used, stamped as ornaments : or cut glass is employed as an additional socket. But a superior construction is to have loose sockets, with a cylindrical plate of metal within, slit so as to form a spring that gives way to-the pressure of the candle, and holds it fast without any papering. Candles are never suffered to bu.rn quite to the socket in the best candle- sticks ; before they burn down so far, the pieces are taken out, and are used either in bedchamber candlesticks or other places. In ordinary candlesticks the bottoms of the sockets are made to rise up to burn the last portion of the candle. And here we may mention a appearance, and is sold in the streets for a halfpenny, as a useful substitute for papering candles. a,fiy. 105., is apiece of sheet brass pressed into the form represented, with a little handle bent back. This is put into the socket of the candlestick and then the candle is pressed down. It holds the candle firmly, cannot take fire, and is easily taken out by means of the handle, after raising up tthe bottom of the socket: b shows this contrivance when in the socket. 672. Telescopic candlesticks are made with tubes to slide within one another in the manner of a telescope, to heighten it as the candle burns down, so as to preserve the flame lat the same actual height. This construction is only used in plated or silver candlesticks, las it is expensive. 67.3. I'iij. 10.5*. exhibits some of the best table candlesticks now in fashion. A and B are ■ small candlesticks, a, b, c, d, e, are branched candlesticks or girandoles of silver, plated or brass gilt, d'ls a. girandole of coloured porcelain and or-moulu.