MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. Chap. II. 733 the greatest part of their flour in the state of maccaroni and vermicelli, and in the other forms of polenta or soft pudding. The pottage or porridge of the northern part of Britain, made by hoiling meal in water or milk, and the brose consisting of roasted meal stirred up in the liquor in which salted meat has boiled, are more humble remains of very ancient customs. We may conceive then that the preparation of unfermented bread or cakes was as early as the use of grain; since the method of making them is so simple that it would easily suggest itself to the rudest nation. 4179. At what time, and by whom, the art of fermenting bread was discovered is not kyioimi; but accident is very likely to have given rise to it in more places than one. We learn from the Scriptures that leavened bread was known to the Israelites, as it was also to the Egyptians and inhabitants of Greece: but it appears that fermented bread was not introduced into Rome until 550 years after its foundation, or about 200 years before" the Christian era: Pliny informs us, that the Romans learned this, with many other improve- ments, during the war with Perseus, king of Macedon. The armies on their return from Macedonia brought Grecian bakers with them into Italy ; and these were called pistores, from their ancient practice of bruising the grain in mortars. The profession of a baker was held in great estimation ; and in the reign of Augustus, there were 329 public bake- houses in Rome, which were chiefly occupied by Greeks, who long continued to be the only persons who understood the art of making good bread. These bakers were incor- porated, and enjoyed considerable privileges, and had the care of the public granaries. The art of baking fermented bread foimd its way into Gaul; but it seems to have remained long unknown in the north of Europe. In the middle of the sixteenth century, unfer- mented cakes kneaded by the women was the only bread known in Sweden and Norway. In this country, probably, the baking of bread was at first universally a part of domestic economy, and it does not appear at what period it became a distinct profession ; never- theless it is so at present, more or less, in every country of Europe ; and the practice is nearly the same in all. There is reason to think from a passage in PUny (Nat. Hist., lib. xviii. c. 7.) that the ancients were acquainted with the use of yeast in fermenting bread; yet it was only towards the end of the seventeenth century that it became generally employed for this purpose in the north of Europe. About this time, the bakers of Paris brought yeast from Flanders for the purpose of baking, and as a substitute for leaven. Although by this means the bread was manifestly improved both in appearance and flavour, the French government prohibited the bakers from employing yeast in its manufacture under a severe penalty, in consequence of the representations of the College of Physicians in 1688, who declared it to be injurious to health. This order was, however, evaded; the yeast was put into sacks in Flanders, and the moisture being suffered to drop out, it was secretly brought in a dry state to the capital of France. The superiority of yeast bread in every respect soon became apparent; the decisions of the medical faculty were forgotten ; the prohibitory laws were allowed tacitly to sink into oblivion, and the new mode of balking found its way into other countries. 4180. The history of bread is, therefore, naturally divided into three parts, consisting of so many i-emarkable stages of improvement in the art: first, the formation of unfermented bread ; second, the fermentation of leavened bread without yeast; third, the fermentation of bread by means of yeast, which is the method now in general use. The subject of bread-making will be treated of most distinctly by following this order, which is not only historical, but also the most simple. But before proceeding to describe each of these, we must take a view of the materials of which bread is composed. CHAP. n. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. Sect. I. OENEBAI, OBSERVATIONS ON THE CEREALIA. 4181. In our general observations on food, we explained at some length the chemical prin- ciples in the various products of the vegetable kingdom, and pointed out that they were dis- tinguished from each other, as to their nutritive properties, by their abounding more or less in their proportions of starch, gluten, mucilage, sugar, jelly, fixed oils, and acids. The three first constituents are the most valuable, and plants which contain a large proportion of them are termed farinaceous, because they yield, on being dried and pounded or ground, a farina or meal, which, when boiled in water, forms a pulpy substance,