91 lUAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. f "the chimney may be shut up except that part just opposite the fire, thus converting the i-.tter into a furnace, no air going up the flue except what passes through the fire. This indeed generally a " cure for the smoke ;" but by it likewise nearly all the heat goes pp the chimney and is lost, so that there might nearly as well be no fire. Any one may aake this addition to a grate, as a last resource when all other methods fail, by a plate of iaeet iron, a contrivance well known by the name of a blower, which, by the bye, is a ood way of making a fire burn up upon occasion. A method, however, allied to this, lilt very different, has been practised with success, and found useful. This is to carry lae blower down even before the front of the fibre, allowing the air feeding the latter to i 3me only through the bottom of the grate, and to have even a register to this by which ; lore or less air may be admitted : thus the fire may be kept in a long time by a very imall quantity of air. 394. Some attempts have been made to destroy the smoke from open chimney fire-places; iiut as none of these have been sufficiently successful to get into use, we do not think it eecessary to occupy our pages with any description of them. Indeed, to accomplish this oDmpletely will evidently be a very difficult task, as may easUy be conceived by those ihho will study the principles of chimney fire-places and the generation of smoke. It is t-ecessary likewise to observe, that, supposing smoke could be destroyed, which it might •;e practicable to do, particularly if close stoves were universally adopted, yet the flues f'for these must still exist) would continue to vomit out on the house tops the same dele- lurious gases as at present, and only in less quantity in consequence of the diminution of H'lel. The smoke itself, though productive of much inconvenience from the soot and dirt I. occasions, and which is really a serious evil in large cities, is not the most unwholesome laart; that is the poisonous gas, or burnt air, as it is vulgarly called, which we have shown II) be wholly inseparable from the combustion of fuel, whatever kind that may be of. The smoke from coal fires, as is well known, not only blackens the exterior of the build- nags by means of the particles of soot of which it is composed, but fiuds its way into our iipartments, and even into the inmost recesses, staining every thing contained in them, il'hether works of art, objects of natural history, or other precious articles. It has been calculated that about one-eighth part of the coal used as fuel is consumed imd lost in the smoke, and that in this manner 100,000 chaldron of coals are annually ap- 'Mied in London to the blacking of our buildings, and the contamination of our atmosphere. 39.5. That the smoke of furnaces for steam-engine boilers, hot-hoitse boilers, or similar works, iL'here the fire-places are of the closed kind, can be effectually destroyed, has been mroved by several inventions for which patents have been taken. An act of parliament tras passed by the legislature some years ago to compel the proprietors of manufactories nn large cities to burn their smoke ; but we cannot here investigate the reason why this vegulation was not complied with. The principles upon which it may be done cannot be very difficult to understand, when we consider that smoke is merely the unburnt fuel that i iiis escaped because there was not sufficient oxygen present to complete the combustion lust at the part where the smoke separates ; and this will be further illustrated by referring 'o our explanation of the action in an Argand's lamp, where the smoke is completely destroyed. With respect to manufactories, perhaps the best thing for many of them to do is to 'nmploy as fuel, coke, or else anthracite the stone coal of South Wales, neither of which pijive any smoke when used alone, and when mixed with a small quantity of Newcastle hioal, which is necessary to make them burn well, give very little. The committee of the rimetropolitan improvement has of late taken up this subject in earnest, and it is to be lumped that they will succeed in bringing about a reform. It is stated Mr. J. Cubitt has I rompletely destroyed the smoke in his new furnace chimney near VauxhaU Bridge. Williams of Liverpool, as well as others, have done the same thing. Sect. X. SWEEPING CHIMNEYS. .'596. The collecting of soot in chimney-flues requires that they shall be frequently »swept, and since a happy change has been made by the legislature in the mode of effecting tijhis, much of what we had originally written on this subject is now rendered unnecessary. l-Tor a century at least it had been the universal practice to sweep chimneys in England t'by sending little boys up these dark and dreary funnels; and were not some record pre- <«erved that this method was resorted to, it would scarcely be believed by posterity that I children were over used for the purpose. 397. It had long been shown that the end might be answered by machinen/, but the deter- nmined opposition of the master chimney-sweepers had prevented the use of the machine 'from becoming general, and they continued to prejudice the public mind by representing :'that a large proportion of chimney-flues could not be swept except by the employment of