.. IV. MANAGEMENT OF THE WINE-CELLAR. 641 Sect. IV. MANAGEMENT OF THE ■WXNE-CELLAR. To manage -wines in the cellar \vith advantage, it is necessary to be acquainted with leir manufacture, which we have already explained; also to know the several diseases i which they are liable, and the remedies. ScBSECT. \.—Construction of the Wine-Cellar. It is necessary that the temperature of wine-cellars should be as uniform as possible. ■ liable to be affected by the variations of weather, wine in bottles will become turbid, ■ " sicken ; " they should be so placed as not to be affected by any of the ordinary causes ' concussion. Wine is easily acted upon by any unusual kind of motion; and it has imetimes happened that when taken from a good cellar in London to a bad cellar in the )untry it has been all spoiled. The openings of a wine-cellar ought to be few and narrow; yet the means of occasional ;ntilation should be provided for ; but a current of air should not pass constantly through , since this must often introduce a change of temperature. Cellars where wine is kept in the wood should neither be too humid nor too dry. The ccess of humidity may be observed by the moisture of paper, corks, &c. kept in them r some time. If the cellar is too damp, the casks are apt to rot and decay ; and fungous atter and mouldiness will grow and infect the air ; at the same time a moderate degree ' humidity is proper ; for if a cellar be too dry, the staves of the casks will shrink and arp, and occasion a loss of wine. 3601. Different wines require different qualities in a. cellar to be preserved in the best inner. In England it is useful to have two wine-cellars, or two divisions in one, in rge establishments, to suit various sorts of wine. One of these should be some degrees inner than the other, for there are many wines which do best in a cellar of higher mperature than usual; thus Madeira, Sherry, Canary, Malaga, Syracuse, Alicant, y prus, and some others, keep better in warm than cold cellars, although such are not all adapted to the delicate wines of France. Where there are two cellars of different imperatures, they should not communicate, lest the temperatures of each should be affected ■ opening the door of communication. I In cellars which hold the wines of the south it may be necessary sometimes to introduce tificial heat; and to regulate this, a thermometer should be kept in it. The increase temperature may be obtained occasionally by a chafing dish and charcoal, but much ttterby a fire, for which reason such cellar ought to be provided with a fire-place, mt it should be recollected that charcoal burnt in a place having no means of ventilation 111 render it dangerous to enter after a certain time, from the carbonic acid generated : iire-place will be free from this danger. 13602. The cellar ought to be swept often and kept extremely clean, as filth gives rise to xxious vapours which will, sooner or later, affect the wine. 33603. To make a cellar complete, it should have a small ante-room, the door of which iiy be shut before that of the cellar is opened, to prevent, as much as possible, any change ! temperature. This ante-room may be usefully employed in holding a number of things lat might litter the cellar, which should be kept as free as possible from lumber. SuBSECT. 2.—Casks for Wine. 33604. New casks require some preparation before wine is put into them. It is recom- !i!nded that they should first be well washed with cold water. Then a hot solution of li t in water (about half a pound of salt to every thirty gallons) should be tlirown in, and f! cask bunged up : after this it should be well shaken, and suffered to get cold. Some me heated should next be poured in, and the cask shaken again. When a cask is emptied it should be well drained, and a brimstone match about an inch ii:iare burnt in it; then it should be bunged up quickly and put into a dry place, parti- Ijarly if not wanted for immediate use; this will prevent its contracting any bad taste. H'hcn casks that are crusted interiorly with lees are to be rinsed, the crust may be loosened by suspending ece of iron chain from the bung-hole,and sh.iking the cask so that the chain may knock against the sides. liUliness is best destroyed l)y rinsing the cask with water in which quicklime lias'been dissolved, 'he casks in a cellar should be inspected very frequently, once a month at least, that accidents m,iy be nediately repaired. When the wine is perceived escaping from the giving way of a hoop, no time should ost in surrounding it with .m iron hoop ; and in default of such a hoop, a strong rope may be used, and «wn tight round it with a packing stick, till a hoop can be got ready. Slight leakages may be stopped for a a with a little lallow or cement; but.if the leakage is considerable, the wine h.ad better be racked olT into 'lund cask. The casks should be ptnr.ed upon sirons elevated trcsscls. tuuchhw no part of the walls j and they lid. if possilile, be nt such a distance from the wall, thjit one m.iy be nme to go round them to examine condition of the cask. When they stand near the walls they are apt to be attacked by the dry rot, and