Book VII. 512 ON FOOD. Sect. III. CINNAMON (Laurus Cinnamovium, Linn.). 28.52. This is the inner bark of a tree, a native of Ceylon, and several countries in the East, as China, Borneo, &c., but it is now cultivated' in the West Indies and Soutli America. It has also been lately planted in Egypt, and appears to succeed. The cinnamon tree grows to the height of twenty feet; but when cultivated for the sake of the spice, it is not allowed to attain its full size, but is lopped close to the ground when about ten feet high, with a stem one or two inches in diameter. New branches shoot up from the roots, and these shoots are cut when from half an inch to three quarters of an Inch in thickness, and in length from two to three feet. The fragrant bark is protected by a tasteless cuticle, and after this is stripped off, the bark is dried, ■which makes it shrivel up and assume the quill form in which it is imported, and the smaller pieces are put within the larger. The best is scarcely thicker than paper, and in long pieces, of a light yellow, bordering upon fawn brown, a dark colour being a mark of mferlority. Its odour is very fragrant; its taste is agreeable and highly aromatic, hot, but not too pungent to be borne upon the tongue, and without any bitterness. 28.53. Cinnamon easily communicates its agreeable flavour to any other substance, and hence it is much employed in the most delicate preparations of the cook and confectioner. 2854. An essential oil is distilled from it in the countries where it grows, but very little of this is contained in the bark as we have it. This oil is very pungent and is heavier than water; it is extremely dear. The best cinnamon comes from Ceylon, where a greater quantity grows than in any other part of the world; and the property of all the cinnamon trees there is retained by our government, though the regulations by which the preparation of their produce for market was limited and restricted are now relaxed: some of the Chinese is also very good, but generally it is inferior; the Cayenne is thicker, but not so good ; that from Brazil is the worst. 2855. Cassia is a bark brought chiefly from China and Ceylon, possessed of the usual properties of cinnamon, and was once supposed to be the produce of another tree : but it is now certain, from the observations of Mr. Marshall, that it is only the bark from the trunk and larger branches of the cinnamon tree : it is of a flat shape, much thicker, and has the mucous integument of the bark remaining, which is cleared off from the proper cinnamon. It has the same qualities as cinnamon, only in an inferior degree. According to Vauquelin, cinnamon contains volatile oil; tannin ; mucilage ; a vegeto-animal colouring matter; an acid, and woody fibre. The oil of cinnamon is prepared chiefly from cassia and from the chips of cinnamon: eighty pounds yield about two ounces and a half of the oil, worth in England a guinea per ounce. Sect. IV. CLOVES (^Eugenia Caryophillatxi). 2856. Cloves are the fi-uit, or-rather the calyx, of the unexpanded flowers of the clove tree. Their name in French is clou, a nail,from their resemblance to one, and hence our term "clove." 2857. The tree is a native of the Malacca Islands, where they were originally found by the Portuguese in 1511, the date of their introduction into Europe. The Dutch on gain- ing possession of the Spice Islands, endeavoured to secure a monopoly of cloves : and with the view of confining the cultivation of the tree to Amboyna, the seat of their power, they bribed the sucrounding chiefs to cut down all the clove trees in the other islands. As these contracts still exist, a military officer with a party of soldiers annually visit every place with axes to destroy the young trees, which spring up in astonishing abundance. Sir Stamford Raffles describes the clove as a tree of noble height, somewhat like the bay, and composing, by the beauty of their form, the luxuriance of their foliage, and the spicy frao-rance with which they perfume the air, some of the most delightful objects in the Vforld. The best variety of the Amboyna clove, called the royal clove, is scarce. It is smaller and blacker than the other kinds. 2858. But notwithstanding this conduct of the Dutch, cloves are now cultivated in other parts of the world. The French introduced them at Mauritius, Bourbon, Cayenne, and Martinique, and they have since been carried to St. Kitt's, St. Vincent's, and Trinidad. The trees live twenty-four years, and bear from six to twenty years. After the cloves are collected in the green state, they are dried quickly by exposure to heat and smoke, until they appear of a deep brown colour ; after which the drying is completed in the sun. Those dried wholly in the sun are the best, 28.59. Cloues form one of the most ayreeable of all the spices, and are much employed ui flavouring many dishes, preserves, liqueurs, &c. They contain a considornWe quantity