679 Chap. VIII. ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. from sugar alone fermented, called suga?- spirit, but it is without the flavour of rum. Great quantities of rum are made in Jamaica, Barbadoes, Antigua, and other sugar islands : the following is the method of making it. When the materials above mentioned are got together, they are diluted with water, and fermented in the usual manner. In Jamaica the proportions are generally six gallons of molasses, thirty-six gallons of scummings of the sugar pans, fifty gallons of dimder from a former distillation, and eight gallons of water. If the rum is required of finer flavour, less of dunder is used, as that contains a good deal of em- pyreumatic matter. When this fermentation is completed, which is generally in about nine days, the fermented liquor or wash is put into a still, and the spirit, called low wines, is drawn off untU it is no longer inflammable. To make this into rum of Jamaica proof, it undergoes a second distillation, in order to concentrate the spirit. Although the fer- mentation is, as we have stated, chiefly the vinous, yet so apt is the cane juice to become acid, that the acetous fermentation sets In slightly, whence it happens that the wash obtained has often a quantity of acetic acid as well as alcohol. As the heat of the distillation increases, the acid acts upon the alcohol, and distils over with the spirit, com- mimicating to it a very disagreeable flavour and odour. Newly distilled rum, therefore, has a peculiar bad taste, and is likewise extremely unwholesome, the acid, as well as the essential oil, being very deleterious to the nervous system: and the intoxicating power of new rum is much greater than might be expected from its proportion of alcohol. In some places, the leaves of different aromatic plants are thrown into the still to correct this flavour ; but time alone, and sufi"ering the rum to remain in the hogsheads long enough, can destroy the acidity or sharpness which it possesses when first distilled, and cause the essential oil to amalgamate with the liquor; accordingly new spirit is stored in wooden vessels until the raw flavour is ameliorated; and hence old rum has a mildness and richness of flavour not possessed by new, and is always preferred. The wood itself appears to act a part in this process, for if put into glass or earthen vessels, rum is said not to improve. 3829. 77ie best rum is of a brown transparent colour; smooth, mellowed, oily taste; strong body and consistence: that of a clean, limpid colour, and hot pungent taste, is either too new or has been mixed with other spirits. Jamaica rum is the first in point of quality ; the Leeward Island rum being always inferior to it in point of flavour, strength, and value ; the price of the latter is usually twenty per cent, below that of the former, which occasions the Jamaica rum, it is said, to be sometimes adulterated by the latter. 3830. Pine-apple rum.—It is customary in some of the West India islands to put sliced pine-apples in puncheons of rum, which give the spirit the peculiar flavour of that fruit. Double-distilled rum is rum rectified to a strength approaching to that of spirit of wine, which is convenient for carriage. 3831. Bum is, like all other spirits, not unfrequently " doctored " as it is called. Bad rum is made to imitate good by the addition of various ingredients. These additions are kept secret, but are mentioned in books devoted to the purpose of exposing such frauds, as " Shannon on Brewing and Distilling," ',' Wine and Spirit Adulterators Unmasked," &c. 3832. In France they make a sort of rum from the molasses which remains after the making of beet-root sugar ; but the spirit from molasses alone has not the proper flavour of rum, proving that this flavour is derived from the essential oil of the cane existing in the cane juice, and which is dissipated by the heat employed in procuring molasses. It is said that a good deal of spirit is made in this country from molasses of cane-sugar by the dis- tillers for purposes of adulteration. SuBSECT. 3.— Com or Malt Spirit. 3833. Va rious kinds of ardent spirits are produced from grain in different parts of the world; but we propose to consider here only such as are made in this "country. When ardent spirit is prepared from grain, the first part of the process is nearly the same as in brewing: the malt is mashed and fermented for the purpose of producing the alcohol, only it is not hopped; the produce being, in fact, a kind of unhopped ale, and from this the spirit is to be separated by distillation. 3834. In Britain the distillers do not brew entirely from pure malt; they use chiefly raw grain, which saves the expense of malting. The proportion of malt usually varies from as little as one-tenth part of the raw grain to one-half of malt. The act of parliament provides for the using of malt or raw grain, and leaves it at the discretion of the distiller to use either, on giving proper nojtice of his intention to that effect. But every distiller is obliged to use at least one-fourth of malt, or pay duty to that amount. This mixture is ground; then the grist is infused with water at a heat of about 145°, which is consider- ably lower than that of the water used by the brewer, as there is more risk of setting with unmalted grain ; and for the same reason, more agitation is used in mashing. 3835. This first process, however, differs from brciritK/ in some imporlani particulars - in Xx 4 '