RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. 912 slowly. If too quickly done over a hot fire, the swelling of the rice is checked When cold and stiff, tie it up m a pudding-cloth, and boil it for an hour in water Serve it with sweet sauce of melted butter and sugar, flavoured with lemon-peel and lemon-juice It a richer pudding be required, three or four eggs may be added to the rice after it has been steeped, and then it may be boiled either in a cloth or basin. 5261. Rice and apple snowballs.—Mt^v steeping rice in milk, apples, peeled and cored may be boiled in the centre of the pudding. Currants and raisins, in the same way, may also be mixed with the rice. j 52 G2. Ground rice pudding. — Mix four table-spoonfuls of ground rice very smoothly in a few table-spoonfuls of cold milk ; boil a pint of new milk, and mix it with the rice as smoothly as possible, beating it well together. When cold, add to it the yolks of four or SIX eggs (according as the pudding is required to be rich or otherwise), and the whites of half the number ; pound three bitter and half a dozen sweet almonds with sugar ; grate some lemon-peel, and, if liked, some nutmeg also ; butter a dish, and bake m a quick oven for half an hour, or boil in a basin for the same time. Turn it out, and serre with white wine sauce. 6263. Puddings of millet, sngo, tapioca, and arrorfrool are also very wholesome and elegant. The whole art of maknig them consists in incorporating these different farinaceous substances in the Urst instance with milk, in winch they are to be boiled; then sweeten to the palate ; after which, when they are cold add beaten eggs and some powdered spice, as cinnamon, nutmeg, or cloves infused in brandy. 5261. Batter pudding. — 'VAV.e six eggs, a pint of new milk, half a pound of dry flour, and a little salt: beat up the eggs with the milk, and by degrees sift in the flour till the whole quantity is incorporated ; add a little powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg; boil it in a basin an hour and a quarter. To be eaten with a sauce composed of melted butter, sugar, and lemon-juice; wine may be added, if agreeable. .5265. Pancakes and fritters. — For pimcakcs, break three eggs in a basin and beat them up with a little salt; put to them four ounces and a half of flour, mixing them together with milk until the whole is brought to the consistency of good cream. Have a clean frying-pan, not too large ; make it hot, and to each pancake put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut. When the butter boils, pour in the batter until the bottom is covered, and fry them on both sides of a light brown. Serve them one by one, or roll them up and send up three or four together. For fritters, make the batter rather thicker, adding a spoonful more of flour to it. Peel either apples or lemons, take out the core and pips, and slice them ; pour a tea-cupful of batter into a pan of hot lard, and Lay a slice of apple or lemon in the centre ; pour a little more biitter on it, and fry of a light brown on each side. Various kinds of fruits may be fried In fritters besides apples. nice fritters. — Steep a quarter of a pound of rice in a small quantity of milk, and fry it with butter in thin cakes. Serve with sweet or wine sauce. 5266. Plain fruit puddings. — These are a common family dish: they are usually boiled, and are prepared by sheeting, wholly or partially, a basin with pudding paste, and the vacancy filled with any kind of green or ripe fruit. Care must be taken that the crust does not burst or detach to let in the water. When sufficiently boiled,—and the time required will depend on the state of ripeness in the fruit, the green occupying much longer, — a hole may be cut in the top, by which they are to be sweetened before they are sent to table. 5267. Apricot or greengage pudding, baked. — Boil ripe apricots or greengages, in sufficient water to cover them, till they are tender ; then take them out and rub the pulp through a hair sieve; sweeten it sufficiently. Beat iialf a pound of this pulp with a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuits, to which add six eggs, a pint of cream, and a i)inch of salt; when well incorporated, sheet the rim of the disli with puff p.iste. and bake gently till done. In the same manner, puddings may l)e formed of the pulps of ripe peaches, nectarines, egg- plums, or of any ripe fruits from which a pulp may be obtained. 5268. Lemon pudding Pare thinly and boil the external rinds of three lemons; beat these in a mortiir with loaf sugar, an ounce of l)lanched almonds, and half a pound of Naples biscuits ; beat up six eggs with a pint of cre.Tm, and mix all well together ; add some powdered cinnamon or grated nutmeg; edge the rim of the dish with puff paste, and bake it gently. In the same manner you may make an orange pudding, by sub- stituting their rinds for those of lemon. 5269. A plain pudding.—Line a pie or pudding dish with thin slices of bread and but- ter. Peel, core, and slice some apples, lay them in layers in the centre of the lined dish, adding here and there a small lump of fresh butter, some grated lemon-peel, and sugar ; fill up the dish, and lay at the top some thin slices of bread and butter soaked in cold milk. Cover the top with a plate or dish, and put a weight on it to press down the fruit. Bake it for three hours in a slow oven ; an hour before it is done, remove the weight and dish, and let it brown on the top. When done, turn it out of the pie-dish to the one on which it is to be sent to table. 5270. Tansey pudding.—This is with many a favourite in the spring. Bruise sufficient tansey to obtain three table-spoonfuls of its juice ; pour this on as much crumb of French roll as will imbibe it. Pound three ounces of blanched sweet almonds to a fine paste with two ounces of loaf sugar, the same quantity of butter, and a tea-spoonful of grated Seville orange-peel. Beat up a pint of cream with six eggs, and mix all the ingredients thoroughly together. This pudding may be either boiled or baked; if the former, it re- quires a sauce of melted butter, sugar, and lemon-juice. 5271. Rich plum pudding.—The excellence of this depends equally on the mixing and boiling. Pound to a fine paste two ounces of blanched almonds, and mix them with eight egg yolks and whites beaten up together ; add a pint of cream ; into this stir a pound of sifted flour, a pound of raisins stoned, the same quantity of currants picked, and a pound of suet very finely chopped. Add sufficient sugar, with spices, some candied oraugc-peel