113AP. II. 115 PRACTICE OF VENTILATION. expelled, at each movement of the partition c, d, a quantity Fig. 82. ;512. The cases we have hitherto considered of ueniiluting, by means of sashes, suppose that .e air in an apartment is considerably warmer than that out of doors ; but, when the nmperature within doors and out are the same, which is often the case in summer, spring, id autumn, little or no change can be effected by opening windows, except indeed in a inall degree, if the wind should happen to blow that way ; and it may happen, that a ramber of persons may be crowded together in a room in warm weather. For such cases, rhich are not, it is true, of common occurrence, no provision has hitherto been made or •ought into common operation in domestic buildings. ■ 513. Forced ventilation has been practised in some buildings, and often with great success, larious means have been used to force a portion of the impure air out of an apartment; ■ad from what we have stated, it will be easy to see that, to introduce fresh air to replace certain openings only are required, as the air wUl come in of itself; but care should be LUien that this fresh air shall be pure, which it can scarcely ever be from a basement story. .514. One of these methods of forced ventilation is by having a lofty tube to proceed from le ceiling by which the hot air escapes, and in which a current of air sometimes is still trrther excited by heat applied to it. This heat may consist in a fire, or lamps, or steam ihbes. The hot air being drawn off by this contrivance, cool air, or air slightly warmed, ; admitted at convenient places in the lower part of the building. 515. Another mode is the employment of a machine that draws^out a portion of the air in de manner of a large pump with valves, or like a revolving fan inclosed in a box. Some F these mechanical modes have been very successfully applied to ventilate ships, prisons, laanufactories, or places of that kind. 516. Tlie following description of Dr. Hales' ventilator is given in this place as being ex- ceedingly efficacious, and at the same time so simple, that it might be easily executed by any carpenter ; it may suggest ideas to those who wish to contrive mechanical methods of ventilation. It is described in the " Trans, of the Roy. Soc, 1741." o b. Jig. 82., is a square box in which there is a partition, c d, moveable up and down upon hinges of leather at the end, d, the other end, c, coming close up to the curved side of the box, so as to move easily, but without permitting much air to pass. The motion of the partition is effected by means of the up- right rod and handle fixed at a. On the side of the box are four valves of wood, two opening inwards, and two outwards : these valves are represented on a larger scale at e and /, above. When the partition c d is made to rise, the air in the upper division is forced out through the valve that opens outwards, while at the same time, in consequence of the partial vacuimi formed in the lower division, air enters into it by the lower valve that opens inwards. ^Vhen the partition is depressed, the contrary action of the valyes takes place ; that which before permitted air to enter, now suffers it to go out. There are therefore two valves constantly permitting air to enter, while two others are permitting it to escape. If such a machine is worked into any place where the air is foul and is to be Dbf the bad air is taken into the box through two of the valves, and thrown out by two others, Ino which tubes (not represented in the wood cut) may be connected to convey it away. ",.l,fig. 82., shows how two of these machines may be joined together, so as to produce double ihhe effect. Considering the simplicity of this contrivance, and the ease with which ships sand buildings might be ventilated by its means, it is surprising that it has not been brought irnto general use : this can only be accounted for by recollecting that the great importance of ^ventilation was not generally understood when Dr. Hales first drew attention to the subject i'-)f foul air ; and that it has been only within a few years that the eyes of the public are hbeginning to be opened to the great value of ventilation to health. 517. In llindostftn a sort of ventilation is produced by the use of the Punka, wliich is a Uarge fan suspended from the ceiling ; to this a rope is attached and passed through an aaperturc in the wall into the veranda, where a man is placed who keeps constantly waving it, Hyy pulling the rope. JJy this the largest rooms, and some churches, have the air put into I constant motion to the great comfort of all present. 518. In cotton factories the foul air is extracted, by machinery. Fans are made to revolve 'with great swiftness, at the rate of 100 feet per second: and by their means a constant rrenewal is ensured of the atmosphere in any range of apartments, however large and closely put up they may be. When such a fan is in full action, and placed at the end of an apartment 200 feet long, it creates a draught at the other end of the apartment, capable of kkeeping a weighted door G inches ajar. As this method is found to be very effectual, and I 2