Chap. V. 1245 ACCIDENTS IN THE FAMILY. with a severe bruise, the straps of plaster must not be firmly applied, the sides of the cut must not be forcibly pulled together ; indeed, if the contusion be very great, and the bleeding moderate, it may be better not to apply plaster at all, but to use warm poppy fomentations for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, or to apply a bread and water poultice. Sect. VI. scaxks and burns. 7293. Scal3s, when caused by boiling water, will, it is obvious, be always of the same degree of severity ; directly a scald has happened, it is advisable to prevent the action of the air upon it, and this is done by sprinkling it thickly over with flour, or covering it with cotton wool, which must not be removed till the scald is well, which will be probably in ten days or a fortnight. When scalds are caused by water not boiling, the lead liniment recommended for slight burns is the best application. 7294. Burns are much more difficult to treat, as they may be of very different degrees of severity; in the slighter kinds, in which there is merely redness and blistering of the skin, cotton-wool or flour may be used, as in scalds ; or the following liniment may be constantly applied, viz. : — Take of undiluted Goulard's solution of lead (liq. plumb, diacetatis), i ounce ; olive oil, J ounce ; water, 8 ounces ; mix the oil and lead solution, shake them well together, and add the w.ater ; make a liniment, to be applied by a camel-hair's brush to the burnt places, or spread upon linen and applied to the parts. If the burn be more severe, and if a part or the whole of the substance of the skin be destroyed, the turpentine liniment is preferable; if this cannot be obtained from a druggist's, then flour should be applied as before. When flour is used to burns and scalds, and the part is kept quiet, the pain soon ceases. If after a burn the face be deadly pale, and the pulse unfelt, a tea-spoonful of wine or brandy, according to age of child, should be given from time to time. Sect. VII. MEANS TO BE USED IN EECOVEBY FROM DROWNING AND SUFFOCATION. 7295. When a person has been taken out of the water, and is insensible, he should be conveyed as speedily as possible to the nearest house or cottage ; but if there be no residence near, that is to say, within two or three minutes' walk, it is necessary to use the measures for restoring animation on the spot; although recoverable when talcen from the water, the patient may die in the ten or fifteen minutes' transit, for want of certain necessary measures. It is necessary that every body should know that death occurs in drowning, because the water prevents the entrance of air into the lungs; the small quantity of water which gets into the lungs is of no consequence, and still less that which passes into the stomach which occurs during life, or if the body be not drowned alive ; con- sequently the direction sometimes given in old books of holding the head down, in order to drain off the water, is not only useless, but positively hurtful ; but if death occurs from the want of air, it is obvious that the thing needful is to restore air to the lungs as fast as possible, and this is done by artificial iniiation. The patient should be laid in the bed, and hot bottles may be applied to the feet; but while these are getting ready inflation must, if possible, be commenced; in the absence of a regular apparatus, it can be readily per- formed by a pair of bellows; one person should close the mouth, and one the nostril of the patient very accurately, and in the open nostril the muzzle of the bellows should be inserted by another person ; then the nostril should be pressed round the muzzle, so that when air is blown it may pass through the nose and not out into the apartment; directly the position is rightly attained, the bellows must be worked, and the air from them will pass into the lungs ; the blowing must be very gentle, else some harm may he done to the structure of the lungs ; the rising of the ribs will at once announce that the chest is fUled with air; then the bellows must be removed, the mouth and nose opened, and the abdomen aud ribs pressed upon so as to expel the air; then again, the bellows must be used in the manner described, and the series of changes persevered in for a long time, or till re- covery occur : during this time warmth may be applied by means of hot bottles, friction, &c. When a house is some way off, and the bellows cannot be procured, inflation may be performed by any person closing the nostrils of the insensible man, and then applying his mouth to that of the patient and blowing into the lungs, then pressing down the ribs, as before, to expel the air, and then blowing in again. Before the operator breathes air in, he should make three or four deep inspirations and expirations, so as to change the air in his lungs, and get it as like atmospheric air and as free from carbonic acid gas as possible. These means should be persevered in for a long time ; hope should not be given up, for recoveries have occurred under very untoward circumstances. 7296. Suffocation.—In many cases the inflation described above is the remedy applic- able here also : thus, if a person be suffocated in a brewer's vat, or by any mephitic gas, tlie