FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVIL 992 Ribands are of various denominations, as satin, sarsenet, lutestring, gauze, tafifeta, pads, all belonging to tbe plain kind. Figured ribands are classed under the same heads. In some of the French ribands groups and wreaths of flowers are executed with the richness and variety of hand-embroidery. Clouding in ribands is produced by a peculiar manage- ment in the dyeing. Galloons and doubles are strong thick ribands, principally black, used for bindings, shoe-strings, &c. Ferrets are coarse narrow ribands shot with cotton. 5838. Silk gauze is an extremely light and transparent fabric, the threads of which are all at some distance from each other. Common gauze is plain, striped, or figured. In the best kind the figure is formed of silk, and a sort with flowers of gold is imported from China; but an inferior sort has the figure composed of magnesia stuck on with gum. Lisse gauze is a plain but superior kind. Crape lisse gauze is crimped or craped. Gos- samer is a very rich gauze used for veils ; it is four times as thick and strong as conunon gauze, though nearly as open in its texture. It may be had four and five quarters wide. 5839. Italian net is a strong gauze composed of sUk and worsted, and used for dresses; it is of various colours. 5840. Mousselinede Sole is a delicate silk fabric about as open as muslin, with a fringe, used for ladies' handkerchiefs worn round the neck. 5841. Crape is a light transparent stuff, in the manner of gauze, made of raw silk, gummed and twisted in the mill, and woven without dressing; when dyed black, it is much used for mourning. Crapes are either crisped or smooth; the former, being double, expresses the deepest mourning. White crape is used in various dresses. The invention came originally from Bologna ; but Lyons has been long celebrated for this manufacture. It is likewise well made at Norwich; and lately a power-loom manufactory has been established at Yarmouth. The peculiar appearance of crisped crape is owing to the operations of dyeing and dressing after it is woven. An additional quantity of gum being added to the silk, the threads are disposed to undo the twist they had received in the mill; and hence the crisped and peculiar appearance. Washing it in hot water shows this ; for then the crisping comes out, and it looks like gauze. The warp, and frequently the woof of crape, is usually made of singles; a better kind is made of two-thread tram; this is of a closer texture, and the crisping is superior. 5842. China crape is a beautiful variety, remarkably fine in texture and weighty in substance, which is usually dyed in various shades of pink and other gay colours, used in rich dresses. CHAP. VI. FAJBEICS OF MIXED MATERLAXS. 5843. There is a class of fabrics of mixed materials, which cannot properly come into those which we have described; these mixtures consist of silk and other materials, or cotton and wool together, or where linen forms a part. 5844. Bombazine is a twilled fabric, the warp being silk, and the woof worsted. It was first invented in 1575 by the Flemings, who settled in Norwich, and introduced the weaving of fine worsted stuffs. Being grey and black, it was chiefly used for mourning dresses; and it used to be largely exported to Spain and the Spanish colonies for the dresses of the religious orders. When its manufacture was improved by the worsted yarn being spun by machinery instead of the hand, and dyed of various colours, a great deal of coloured bombazine was made in Norwich, Spitalfields, and other places ; but this is not at present much used, the manufacture being almost confined to black. 5845. Norwich crape. — It is difficult to say how this came to be designated a crape, as it is a very different fabric from the usual crapes. It is composed of a silk warp and worsted woof, generally of different colours, or at least of different shades. It is of all colours, and is distinguished from bombazine chiefly in not being twilled. 5846. Poplin is composed of a warp of silk and weft of worsted, but having more silk in its composition than bombazine. Irish poplins have long been celebrated, and are used for dress in the highest circles. Dublin is the place where they are made of the first quality. Superb patterns have been manuiiictured for court dresses, in gold and silver on white, pink, and azure grounds with flowers, and of every variety of colour; yard, and yard and a half wide. 5847. Lustre is a variety of poplin, but less substantial. 5848. Gros-dcs-Indcs is a silk formed by using different shuttles with threads of various substances for the weft, by which a stripe is formed across the web. 5849. Valentia has a cotton warp, or a cotton and silk warp for the silk pattern, and