470 Book VIJ. ON FOOD. ScBSECT. 5.—Rampion (^Campanula rapuncidus, Linn.). 2517. This is a native of England, but not common. The root, which is the part that is eaten, is long, white, and spindle shaped ; it is eaten raw like a radish, and has a pleasant nutty flavour; both it and the leaves are sometimes used in winter salad. SuBSECT. 6.—Prussian Asparagus {Omithogalum Pyrenaicuni). 2518. A plant is sold under this name in Bath, and the south and west of England, as a substitute for asparagus. The part which is eaten are the flower stalks before the buds are expanded. They are served up in the same way as asparagus, and are tolerably good, but rather insipid. 2519. Hop tops—The young shoots of the hop, when they have risen two or three inches, are also employed sometimes as a substitute for asparagus. In Belgium they are blanched: and they are very strongly recommended as an admirable ingredient, in a variety of dishes, such as soups, omelettes, &c., by an experienced cook from Sardinia, who mentions them in the " Gardener's Magazine." SuBSECT. 7.—Alisander (^Smymium olusatrum, Linn.). 2520. This plant also grows naturally near the sea, and somewhat resembles celery in taste. The leaves are of a pale green ; when blanched, the leaf stalks were formerly much used as a pot herb and in salad, but it is nearly out of use. SuBSECT. 8.—Bladder Campion {Silene inflata). 2521. The young shoots of this, when boiled, are an agreeable flavoured vegetable, and are boiled like asparagus. Sect. VIIL acetarious vegetables. 2522. By the term acetaria, or acetarious vegetables, is expressed a numerous class of plants of various cidture and habits, which are chiefly employed as salads, pickles, and other condiments. They are to be considered rather as articles of comparative luxury than as ordinary food; and are more desirable for their coolness or their agreeable flavour than for their nutritive powers. 2523. Salads consist of raw vegetables, of which lettuce is themost generally used with us: but several others are occasionally employed, as celery, cresses, onions, beetroot, &c. As raw vegetables are liable to ferment in the stomach, and as they give but little stimulus to that organ, they are generally dressed with some condiments, as vinegar, pepper, mustard, salt, and oil. Considerable difi"erence of opinion exists among medical men respecting the use of these, and particularly oil, some condemning, others approving it, SuBSECT. 1.—Lettuce (Lactuca sativa, Linn). 2524. The botanical name of the lettuce, Lactuca, is derived from the milky juice that exudes from its stalks when it is cut. This juice, when the plants are young, is of a mild and pleasant bitter, containing a small quantity of the narcotic principle, but this, in the old stems and foliage, and more especially in those plants which are ftiUy exposed to the sun, becomes extremely bitter, and notably sedative. A medicine (extract of lettuce) is extracted from it, which is said to have the good without the bad effects of opium. In the strongly-scented wild lettuce, which is uneatable, this is very abundant: the plant is cultivated in Forfarshire for this purpose. 2525. Tlie lettuce came originally from the Grecian Archipelago, and the name of one kind, the cos lettuce, reminds one of the island of the same name. The soporific qualities of the lettuce were very early known, and a lettuce supper has been thought very condu- cive to repose. 2526. There are two principal varieties, the cabbage and the cos lettuce, the latter often vulgarly and improperly called gauze lettuce. The first is the earliest in season; the leaves are roundish, and the head flat and close to the ground. The cos lettuce is more upright, and the head is of an oblong form. When very young, the leaves of both are open, and then the cabbage lettuce is preferred; but both have compact round heads when mature, the inner leaves being white, and then the cos lettuce has the finest flavour, and is most employed for salads, the cabbage lettuce being more used for soups. Blanching them prevents, in a great measure, the formation of the bitter acrid and narcotic principle, and renders them more wholesome. Lettuces may be considered as a cooling summer vegetable, and useful rather as cor- recting or diluting animal food, than as containing much nutriment of itself. It is generally eaten with some condiments, as vinegar, mustard, oil, &c.