ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. lOOG Book XXIL more conveniently marked with an ink that is indelible by the ordinary processes of washing ; observing, however, that this will be discharged wherever the bleaching liquid is used. 6545. Tlie best marking ink is made in the following manner, which it is useful to know, as in some places it cannot be purchased or depended upon. Get one draclmi of lunar caustic (fused nitrate of silver), which every surgeon keeps ; dissolve it in less than half an ounce of pure water (distilled or rain is best), having put into it a drop or two of nitric acid ; but this is not essential. This forms the ink, but as it is yet colourless the writing done with it would not be visible, and it would b(? too thin. To give it a little colour, add to it a little indigo, or even a drop of common ink; and to give a little thickness, add a very little gum, which by itself will give a greenish colour. To prepare the linen to be written upon, dissolve an ounce of salt of tartar (sub-carbonate of potash, the common potash used for washing) in an ounce and a half of water. Wet the linen, with this pre- paration, and let the place dry completely : when the part is dry, rub it with something hard to smoothe the surface, and write with the ink prepared as above. The writing will be indelible. Any one may easily make this ink ; but it must be observed that lunar caustic will burn the skin if handled; it should therefore be lifted by a pair of pincers or scissors. The ink also makes a black stain upon the skin, which no washing will remove ; it must therefore be used with neatness and care. If the ink is too pale, there is not lunar caustic enough in it; if there is too much, the ink will be apt to run or blot Should it not be possible to obtain lunar caustic, the deficiency may be supplied by dis- solving a bit of silver, as a small coin, in some aquafortis ; the solution is nitrate of silver, nearly the same as lunar caustic, and will answer for marking ink with the addition of a little gum and colour. The phial containing the ink should be kept from the light by wrapping paper round it, or keeping it in a case. A marking ink is noiu sold that requires no liquid as a preparation before writing with it. It is said to be indelible, but not being quite certain as to this fact, we cannot at present safely recommend it. 6546. An indelible ink for printing on linen with types may be made thus. Dissolve some asphaltum in four times the weight "of oil of turpentine ; add some lamp-black or fine black lead powder, so as to make an ink of a proper consistence to print with types. Or, take the black residuum after making oxygen gas by manganese and sulphuric acid; mix it with water and filter it; mix the paste left on the filter with a little dissolved gum tragacanth. The cloth to be marked with must first be wetted with a solution of potash, or soda, in the proportion of ten parts water. CHAP. XII. scoxmrNG, removing stains, etc. 6547. In England scouring comprehends such processes for cleaning silks, cloths, woollens, lace, and other articles as do not come within the province of the laundress. The mode of proceedmg is more varied and difficult than that of ordinai-y washing; hence the scourer has become a distinct trade. Those who practise it possess a good deal of know- ledge which is not usually attained completely in domestic economy: and when various articles of dress and furniture cannot be cleaned properly at home they are sent to the scourer, who has not only more skill, but greater conveniences for his business. Never- theless, as scouring is expensive, a good deal of what is not very difficult may be easily practised with a little attention. We shall in this section treat of scouring, properly so called, where the whole of the cloth is to be cleaned, and likewise of the takmg out of spots and stains. . . , ■ . j 6548. General principles.— Vtcvwwsly to the mvention of soap, which altords us so easy a mode of cleaning woven fabrics, various other materials were used. The Romans made use of certain plants and of argillaceous earths; ashes, gall, soda, and urine were likewise employed) and the Persians made use of boles and marly earths. All these materials have still a convenience, and are used in particular cases of scouring, which is, in fact, a variety of washing. , , ■, x . r 6549. With respect to taking out spots and stains, regard must be had to the nature ot the cloth that is stained, and also to that of the matter which produced tlie spot, since it is desirable to remove the stain without affecting the original colour. The most usual substances that produce stains in clothes or furniture are, 1. Fatty substances, as oi , grease, wax, &c.; 2. Resinous matters; 3. Vegetable and animal juices, as wme, truit, &c.; 4. Iron, ink, &c. , , ,. , . To remove any of these matters, we must find some substance capable of dissolving