373 llHAP. III. QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD. K b 3 dthough It is said that the flesh of some animals that did not come to their death hy the lands of man has occasionally found its way to the London market. There are in- jectors appointed who very impartially look after this : a place in Newgate market is ililled the "dead market." Cattle are generally fatted in three months ready for the ;itcher, though, from improvements in agriculture, they can be supplied with food at all limes of the year ; and hence good beef is always to be had in the metropolis ; yet it is enerally best everywhere in the first of the winter months, that is, in November, vecember, and January. The cattle fed out of doors are then in the best condition, after I'lving had the advantage of plenty of grass and summer food. In the winter, from the irrnips and other vegetables on which they feed, the meat often acquires a worse flavour, lad in the spring it is apt to be lean from the quality and insufficiency of nutriment, hhe loin is generally reckoned the finest part of beef, called sirloin, from having been k'cularly knighted by Charles II. Two sirloin's make a baron. 11832. Veal, or the flesh of the calf, is tender and nourishing, but not so easy of ingestion as the prime parts of beef and mutton, although the contrary is often ppposed. Veal, particularly if it be young, contains much gelatine, as is the case with 1 young animals, and therefore yields a great deal of soluble extract when boiled long in aater, particularly if under two months old, and is, in consequence, much used for soup or iioth, which has occasioned it to be supposed that veal is more nourishing than meat less liluble: but this does not follow, for the gastric juice in the human stomach acts dif- rt'ently from water, and can dissolve what that fluid cannot. TThere is the same difference in the quality of veal as of beef, arising from the mode in liiich the calves have been reared. The method most commonly employed for fattening cBm is to allow them to suck, which is the quickest and most effectual. Another method uto give them milk, and then they are kept in pens in a close house well littered. These 00 methods, when well managed, are nearly equal. When calves are killed too young, ■! veal is insipid: it is best when the animals arrive at the age of eight or ten weeks, wording to the season of the year. Calves of the largest size are fatted in Essex, where ■: business of suckling seems to be best understood. All that appears necessary, how- r;;r, is to give them abundance of milk, and to keep them clean and dry in good air. Whiteness is generally considered as a test of the goodness of veal. This, however, is IJ always a time one, since the butchers, it is said, sometimes produce whiteness by fre- jBnt bleeding the calves. Veal does not keep so well as beef and mutton. If ill-fed, flflesh is sometimes red ; but the bleeding which is resorted to, in order to improve the idteness, is of no avail in making it more wholesome. It is a common practice to give Uk to calves that they may lick it, and it is erroneously supposed by some persons tt this is intended to make the flesh white ; but the use of chalk is to correct the acidity idch sometimes exists in the stomach, and which prevents their fattening. m the immediate neighbourhood of London, where the fatting of calves is an object of aat importance, milk is too valuable for feeding them, and a great variety of other food jpesorted to. They are generally fattened with balls of linseed jelly, gruel, grains, (rfttoes, pollard, and some other nourishing preparations, with hay tea to drink. f'3. It has been remarked, that most of our animals serving as food preserve their Saxon s while living; but when they are killed and dressed, their names immediately line French. Thus it is ox, calf, sheep, deer, and pig, while alive, but beef, veal, ' venison, and pork, when brought to table. This might arise from the superiority r neighbours in the art of cookery, which gave rise to the names of our dishes, h not to the animals from which they were derived. ■4. The terms applied to cattle of different ages are, when male, a bull, or bullock; 1 castrated after the first year, a stirk; a year old, a siot or steer; at five years old, -X: female, n cow; first year, a calf; after the first year, a AeI/er^when about to sg a calf, a J/oung cow. A castrated female is called a spayed heifer. Certain of the ssh and Scotch cattle of rather a sturdy kind are ofteu called runts. Sect. III. SHEEP (Oui's aries. Linn.). 1 i-lSS. The sheep was probably one of the earliest domesticated animals, owing to its l leness of character; and it appears to have formed the principal wealth of the archal tribes. They were spread over Western Asia at a very remote period, but it is Mnown at what time they were introduced into Europe. Sheep have an advantage ' imost other quadrupeds, that they can be reared in situations and upon soils where ' I; cattle could not live from the scantiness of the herbage ; and in usefulness they may ' ' I next to the cow. They are found in almost every part of the world, and their fleece ' -s r(!markably according to the temperature of the climate. In cold countries the '. is extremely fine, while in warm regions it is little better than hair, nature adapting ' ij iovering of the animal to the necessity of its being kept warmer or cooler. It is not