(CUAP. II. WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. 965 3 Q 3 lof wool. It is very thin, and useful for some purposes, as linings, and for shrouds for I. coffins, &c. 5673. Baize is a coarse, open, woollen stuff or flannel, having a long nap ; sometimes ffrized on one side, and sometimes not, according to the uses for which it is intended, lit was first introduced into England together with sargs, serges, &c., by the Flemings, lit is used for a variety of purposes,, for linings, &c. ; a good deal is exported. It is jgenerally dyed green and other colours, and is of various width, from a yard to two 1 yards. 5674. Blankets are made light and loosely woven, on which their warmth partly Jdepends. Witney in Oxfordshire has been long famous for this manufactm-e, and the bbest blankets were formerly, and we believe are still, made at that place. Some blankets .lare made of felt wool, that is, wool from sheep skins, which is divided into several sorts. lOf the head wool, and bay wool, they make blankets of twelve, eleven, and ten quarters noroad; of the ordinary and middle sort, blankets of eight and seven quarters broad; of !the best tail wool, blankets of six quarters broad, commonly called cuts, serving for sseamen's hammocks. But the long staple of foreign wool is now much used for the best iblankets, and therefore admits of a deeper pile being raised on the surface. As blankets .are bulky articles, and go through the same processes as cloth, the machinery is larger, land more easily seen than those used in cloth-making. There is an extensive manufac- ' tory at Dewsbury in Yorkshire, where coals are cheap, driven by steam engines. Nearly ::3,000 pair of blankets are made there weekly. Blankets are made of all sizes, up to r'foui'teen quarters wide and fifteen quarters long. Those made for exportation contain itwo-thirds of the low-priced wools of Russia, Germany, Italy, and the Levant; if made jail of British wool, they would be too expensive for this purpose. In the manufacture of blankets, after being woven, they are slightly fulled till tthey are reduced a sixth. The pile, which is very important, is raised by passing each sside of the blanket twice or thrice over rollers covered with brass pins ; after this they are ccarded, or brushed ; but it is to be observed that though by the improved machinery the fpile is raised very completely, and the warmth of the blankets is undoubtedly increased !by it, yet this does not improve their durability, but the contrary. To be durable, blankets rmust have a certain weight, a closeness of fabric, and sufficient quantity of wool in them, lit is necessary, therefore, in choosing blankets, to look not merely at the rich appear- aance of the pile, but also to the weight and texture. Fine blankets are made stouter and 1 heavier than coarse ones. Stuffs. 5675. The term stuff is frequently applied to any woven fabric, whether of gold, silver, -silk, wool, hair, cotton, or thread; but is more particularly used to express certain kinds 1 of thin woollen stuff's, used for women's wear, or for linings, as linseys, rateens, &c. J Stuff's properly include all the thin fabrics of long or combing wool known by the general I name of worsted, as shalloons, lutestrings, florenteens, tammies, moreens, callimancoes, (camlets, plaids, merinoes, &c. Their most important distinction is, that they have not t their surface covered with a nap or pile. They are woven either plain or twilled, or ^spotted or figured of various patterns, but in all the varieties the thread is left bare. : After the operation of weaving, each side of the piece is drawn rapidly over a convex ! plate of red hot iron, to singe off the superfluous fibres of the wool; it is then rolled tight, ••soaked in hot water and boiled. Afterwards it is scoured, stocked or milled, and pressed i between rollers to take out the moisture; it is then dyed, after being passed through a 1 mordant. The subsequent drying is eff'ected by rolling them round iron cylinders filled iwith steam; and then the stuff's are pressed by Bramah's hydraulic presses. 5676. Moreen is a very stout stuff made for furniture, and chiefly for window-curtains: : it is plain or watered. Some moreen is of a very rich quality, almost resembling silk Ldamask. It may be had so low as 8t/. per yard, and from that to 3s. Width, 26 to 27 I inches. 5677. Lasting has a double warp, sometimes of two and sometimes of three threads : it is made of various patterns, plain, twilled, or figured, and is distinguished by different I names, according to the figures and quality; as Prunella, amens {probably from Amiens in I France), Florentina, and draw-bays. Width, 18 inches. Generally black, used for shoes. 5678. Denmark salins are also used for shoes. Width, 27 inches. 5679. Jiateen is a thick woollen stuff, quilled, woven on a loom with four treadles, like ' serges and some other stuffs. There are some rateens dressed and prepared like cloths; I others left simply in the hair j and others where the hair or nap is frized. Mostly used i m linings. 5680. Merino is an extremely fine twilled stuff made of the finest wool, used for ' dresses and shawls. The French excel in the manufacture of this article : some of theirs ; approximate to Cashmere. 5681. Merino damask is a beautiful stuff lately introduced, and much used for window-