182 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. CHAP. nr. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN IMIRNITUIIE. S07. Tlie nalure of the materials used in the various articles of furniture is a subject among others in domestic .economy that it is useful to understand. A judicious choice of furniture cannot be made without a knowledge of the substances of which they are formed, since upon the various qualities of these their durability often depends, as well as the proper methods of preserving their strength, beauty, and usefulness. It is more particularly necessary to have an accurate knowledge of the metals, on account of the expense of some, and the great damage that may be done to them through ignorance or inattention. In the utensils employed in our culinary processes, this subject acquires an importance in another point of view. It is well known that several metals are of a poisonous nature, and serious accidents have happened in consequence of their improper use. The same judgment of the mistress or the hotisekeeper, therefore, which watches over and regidates every part of the household, should be exercised and extended to the furniture and utensils of the cook, who is too often but imperfectly acquainted with those facts which it is so important that all should know. Nor are tradesmen, and even the manufacturers themselves, to be always depended upon for information respecting the materials they employ; many of them being ignorant of the difference between a simple metal and an alloy, knowing the latter only by a name, and having erroneous ideas respecting its composition : with respect to the latter, indeed, the grossest quackeries and impositions are daily put forth and practised, sometunes through fraud, but in some cases also from ignorance. We consider, therefore, that it would be useful in this work to supply some information on this head. Sect. I. ■WOODS. 808. General observations. — Much of the beauty and excellence of modem furniture depends upon the judicious selection of the wood of which it is constructed : and of this there is now a considerable variety. We have already, in our history of Furniture, mentioned the taste of the ancient Romans for beautiful kinds of wood. Anciently, in Britain, the native woods alone were worked into furniture, and of these the oak had the preference; but after the acquisition of mahogany, the beauty of which far surpassed all others then in use, our native woods were much neglected, although some of them possess great merit, and had formerly been studied with attention to their curious cui-ling veins ; of late these have come again into fashion, together with new species from distant countries. AVoods vary much in their colours: some are of a kind of chocolate coloui", as mahogany, cedar, rosewood; others are of a light yellowish hue, as walnut tree and satinwood; others, again, are almost white, as pear, plane tree, and deal. Their hardness, and of course their durabilitj-, and the property of receiving a polish, vary considerably. The most valuable and beautiful woods for the best furniture are, mahogany, rosewood, satinwood, zebra, and Coromandel wood. For certain parts of bedsteads, chairs, and sofas, beech and elm are employed; oak for strength and for Gothic furniture; the cherry, plane, holly, )-ew, box, walnut, lime, poplar, and a great variety of others for occasional purposes : and deal enters more or less into the construction of almost every article. ]\Iany of the more expensive kinds are very nearly imitated by staining and painting; but these processes, though much employed and extremely useful, fail in durability where there is much wear. Varnishing the woods themselves, to exhibit the grain, greatly improves their appearance ; and since yeneering has been so much employed, and the French polish has been in use, the splen- dour of fine woods in our furniture has become very remarkable. 809. These various beauties and merits depend, in a great measure, upon the natural structure of wood in general, and the manner in which it grows. The varieties of wood usually employed in Britain are produced by that class of trees termed by botanists exo- (jcnoits; that is, which increase in thickness by a yearly addition of a circular layer of new wood, which grows between the b.irk and last layer. A section across such a Xvec.fg. 157., exhibits a number of concentric rings of wood, equal to that of the years which the tree has been growing. Each of these rings is unequal in density in dillerent parts, being composed of a hard substance on one side and a soft substance on the other, both of which generally graduate more or less into each other, the colour being at the same time dif- ferent, which enables us to count them with tolerable facility. The whole substance of wood is composed of two kinds of minute parts;