Chap. I. 889 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. fii-m. Boil it for an horn- and a half, or two hours, according to the size. The usual accompanying dishes ai-e, — ham or tongue, oyster, celery, or liver sauces. 5022. Boasted turkey. — The same directions as for roasting fowls apply to turkey. For the previous management, let it be emptied and picked a few hours after it is killed, and introduce into the belly some parings of fresh truffles, or dried, if the fresh are not to be procured; afterwards stuff the belly with clean hay, and let the turkey hang by the legs for a week before it is dressed. When the hay is withdrawn, collect the trufSe parings, and wash them in warm water, and put a portion of them to stew in the gravy that is sent up with the turkey. For the stuffing, sausage-meat, beat together with yolk of egg, is most proper, or, if you prefer it, the same as directed for boiled turkey. According to the size, roast from an hour to an hour and a half. Serve with gravy and bread sauce in tureens, sausages, ham, &c. Anolher way. — If a turkey be large and coarse, cut off the legs below the knee, take off the head, cook the gizzard entirely, and blanch the liver if not larded. Rub the breast with lemon-juice and cover it with slices of peeled leroon ; over these lay slices of bacon. Wrap the turkey in paper, and prepare a clear brisk fire, to which lay the turkey, though not too near till heated through, then bring it nearer. Heniove tlie paper and coverings a quarter of an hour before it is done ; brown it highly and frost it. Dish it over plain gravy into which a slight flavour of garlic has been given. Garnish with Bologna sausages, and with curled bacon, cresses, lemon, &c. 5023. Boiled goose. — Singe a goose well, pour over it a quart of boiling milk ; let it lie in this a whole night; take it out and dry it well; cut into small pieces a large onion and some sage ; put it into the goose, and close the openings in the usual way. Put it into a pot of cold water, let it boil gently for an hour, covered very close. Serve with onion sauce. 5024. Green goose roasted. — This is not stuffed as the Michaelmas goose with sage and onion, but has merely some pepper, salt, and a lump of butter put into the inside. Baste it with butter, and froth it well. Serve with a good gravy in the dish, and a green sauce in a tureen. Three quarters of an hour is sufficient time for roasting it. 5025. Roasted goose. — Let it be stuffed with sage and onion, finely minced and well peppered. Roast it with an equal fire, and when the fat begins to drop it will only re- quire occasional basting. Send up good gravy free from fat, and also a sauce composed of two tea-spoonfuls of fresh-made mustard, half a tea-spoonful of salt, sufficient cayenne, and a large glassful of port wine. 5026. To roast ducks. — For the stuffing, boil together one ounce of onion, and half an ounce of green sage; chop them very small, and mix them with a breakfast-cupful of bread crumbs, with butter about the size of a walnut, and a little black pepper and salt. Bind these together with the yolk of an egg, and stulf with the mixture one of the ducks about to be cooked. There are many persons who object to the flavour of onions. The time for roasting ducks must be varied, according to their size, from lialf to three quarters of an hour. The feet crisply roasted are considered by some persons as dainties. A good meat gi'avy in one tureen, and sage and onion sauce in another, are usually served with ducks, as well as green peas. Roasted ducklings are never stuffed with sage and onion, but are roasted from a quarter of an hour to twenty minutes, during which time they ought to be carefully basted with butter and frothed. 5027. Pigeons. — Roasted pigeons requu-e a brisk fire, and to be well done, but still to afford gravy when cut into. Let them be roasted with stuffing in the belly, prepared in the following manner : Take the hearts and livers of the pigeons and nearly double the quantity of the fat of ham or bacon, beat them in a mortar to a smooth paste; moisten some crumb of bread with milk, and press out the milk through a napkin ; add chopped parsley, gi-ated lemon-peel, black pepper, and salt; unite these with white and yolk of egg beat together, divide this into equal portions, and stuff the pigeons. As these birds possess hardly any fat, they are to be often basted with butter while roasting. For sauce to them, melt some butter with a little flom-, moisten with veal consomme, and stir in some chopped parsley; pour this over the pigeons, previously sprinkling them with a little salt. The same sauce is used for broiled pigeons. .5028. Broiled pigeons. — Clean the pigeons well, split the backs, pepper and salt them ; broil them quickly over a clear fire, and pour over them a sauce of stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter. Serve them as hot as possible. 5029. Stewed pigeons. — Make a stuffing with pigeon livers parboiled and bruised in a mortar; add to them bread-crumbs, butter, pepper, salt, pounded cloves, parsley, sweet herbs chopped small, and the yolk of an egg; fill the pigeons and tie them up at both ends. Half roast or fry them; put them into good gravy or beef broth, with an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a slice of lemon. Let them stew very gently for twenty minutes ; strain the same and .skim off the fat; add to it pickled mush- rooms, hard yolk of egg balls, and forcemeat balls. Larding the pigeons improves tliem. I