808 HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. Book XIL ordinary days is simply and plainly served, but -which is distinguished when dinner parties are given by more display and by choicer cooking and arrangement. _ 4907. Tlie style of the daily table in families of the middle rank is determined often by circumstances of choice, convenience, and economy, rather tlian by considerations of elegance and style, although in many cases attention to these might be given without additional expense being incurred ; and by increasing the comfort and refining the habits of a family circle, it might be one means of giving a tone to its taste and manners con- sistent with the cultivation of mind now generally attained. Attention to the every-day style of the table is an improvement to servants also, rendering less instruction and prompting necessary when any extra attention to propriety and nicety is called for. Order of the Courses. 4908. Dinners in good style consist of either two or three courses : the first fish and soup ; the second of meats variously prepared, and of which the side and corner dishes are called entries; the third of game when in season, with flank and corner dishes, called entremets by the French, consisting of jellies, creams, pastry, and other confectionery : vegetables dressed d, la Frangois are also sometimes introduced as entremets. 4909. In a dinner of two courses fish and soup are often brought in with the entrees at the flanks and corners, and are removed by dishes of meat or poultry. In the most fashionable dinners there are generally two removes of the principal dishes in each course ; each must consist of the same number of dishes ; for instance, if in the first course there are six entrees, in the second there must be six entremets. 4910. In the first course the principal dishes are usually of English cookery, the entries of French. A centre dish, such as cold game pie, or other savoury pie, may, without impropriety, remain on the table till the removal of the second course ; when it is to be left during the course, it is called in the bill of fare a dormant. Symmetry in the order of the dishes must be preserved. Thus puff pastry on one side should have a corresponding dish on the other of short pastry. In all cases opposite corner should have corresponding dishes. 4911. In second courses the flank or side dishes may have vegetables prepared in the French style, and be removed by fondus souffle, &c.; or in smaller dinners, when flank dishes are omitted, two of the comers may consist of vegetable entremets, the other two of sweet dishes. 4912. The bill of fare of each course should be neatly drawn up on a porcelain slate, and placed at the head of the table for the convenience of the presiding lady. 4913. The butler should also be provided with a biU of fare, as on him devolves the charge of removing and placing properly each dish.