406 ON FOOD. Book VII. Sect. XXXII. EGGS. 2105. Eygsform aii important article of food, and they have been chemically examined by several analysts, particularly Dr. Prout and Dr. Bostock. The eggs of birds are com- posed of several distinct substances; as the shell, the white, and the yolk. 2106. The ahcU, or external coating, is formed chiefly of carbonate of lime. It consists in 100 parts, of carbonate of lime, 72 ; phosphate of lime and magnesia, 2 ; gelatine, 3 ; the remainder, perhaps, water. It is supposed that birds pick up carbonate of lime with their food to sujjply materials for the shells of their eggs ; for it is remarked, if care be taken that their food shall contain none of this earth, they will lay eggs without shells. Egg-shells, on account of their calcareous nature, are often employed for the same pur- poses as chalk or lime, in correcting acidities, &c. They are observed to be filled with nmuerous minute pores, which should be closed by rubbing some substance over them when the eggs are to be preserved. The thin membrane immediately beneath the shell is in some eggs much stronger than in others, and is considered to be coagulated albumen. 2107. Tlie white of egg is generally mentioned as being composed only of albumen, and indeed is referred to often as an example of pure albumen ; but Dr. Bostock has given the most complete analysis of it, from which it is shown to consist of 80 parts water, 15 albu- men, and 4'5 mucus. It is a glairy insipid fluid that mixes readily with water when raw, and is often used as a varnish, like gum ; it is also employed to clarify liquors. It much resembles serum of blood in its composition and properties. The white of the egg has been found by accurate observation to consist of two parts: the external part, or that im- mediately under the membrane that lines the shell, is always most abundant in newly laid eggs. When the egg is raw, this part is almost as liquid as water, and evaporates by keeping. In eggs that have been long kept, it is scarcely observed; the inner white is by much the most considerable, and this sets, or acquires a firmer consistence, in boiling. New laid eggs are heavier than water, and sink in it; but in consequence of the evapora- tion of the internal white through the pores of the shell, they become lighter; hence old and bad eggs swim in water. Hens' eggs have the albumen, when coagulated by boiling, of a beautiful opaque milk-white substance, if they are quite fresh ; but if not, it is a dirty or yellowish white, and not firm. 2108. The yolk has a mild and peculiar taste, and appears to consist of a deep yellow coloured oil of the nature of fat oils, united to a portion of albumen sufficient to render it diffusible in cold water, in the form of an emulsion. It contains also a little sulphur and phosphorus, the former being evident from its blackening a silver spoon, the black stain arising from some of the silver uniting to the sulphur, and forming a sulphuret of sUver, which is naturally of a black colour; consequently this stain cannot be removed without rubbing off this part of the silver that has been altered. The use of the phosphorus is supposed to be in order to supply that principle to the bones of the young chick. The yolk is concrescible by heat, and becomes solid by boiling. It is employed as a medium for uniting resins and oils with water. The yolk is itself surrounded by an extremely thin membrane which separates it from the white. 2109. The eggs of different birds vary much in size and colour. Those of the ostrich are largest. One laid in the menagerie in Paris weighed two pounds fourteen ounces, held a pint, and was six inches deep : this is about the usual size of those brought from Africa. Travellers describe ostrich eggs as of an agreeable taste : they keep longer than hens' eggs. Drinking cups are often made of the shell, which is very strong. The eggs of the turkey are almost as mild as those of the hen ; that of the goose is large, but well-tasted. Ducks' eggs have a peculiar taste ; the albumen is slightly transparent, or bluish, when set or coagulated by boiling, which requires less time than hens' eggs. Guinea-fowl eggs are smaller and more delicate than those of the hen. 2110. The eggs of wild fowl are general ly coloured, often spotted, and the taste generally partakes somewhat of the flavour of the bird they belong to. Those of land birds that are eaten, as the plover, lapwing, ruff, &c., are in general much esteemed; but those of sea fowl have more or less of strong fishy taste. The eggs of the turtle are very numerous; they consist of yolk only without shell, and are delicious 2111. As food, eggs are extremely nutritious. The qualities of those belonging to different birds vary somewhat. Those of the common hen are most esteemed as delicate food, par- ticularly when new laid ; the quality of the eggs depends much upon the food given to the hen. Eggs in general are considered as most easily digestible when little subjected to the art of cookery. The lightest way of dressing them is by poaching, which is efiFected by putting them for a minute into brisk boiling water ; this coagulates the external white, •without doing the inner part too much. Every one knows how much better they are when new htid than for a day or two after they arc laid. The usual time allotted for boiling eggs in the shell is three minutes, which should always be jneasurcd by a sand-