Book XXVL 1224 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. SuBSECT. 9. — Vapofur Bath. 7212. The vapour bath is more powerful than the warm water bath in exciting per- spiration, and is often very efficacious in cases of gout and rheumatism, and likewise in stiffness of the joints; also in diseases affecting the skin, in nervous complaints, dry catarrh and recent affections of the lungs, provided there be no active inflammation. If employed in time, it is found to ward off' the bad effects of exposure to cold; but it is improper for persons in a state of great debility. The vapour is certainly the most com- plete as a means of purifying the skin, combining the full effects of transpiration and opening the pores with ample lavation afterwards; yet it exerts so powerful an agency on the system as to be actually injurious and debilitating when frequently used. The Turkish baths, which have been frequently described by travellers, possess a completeness and luxury unknown elsewhere ; but they prove enei-vating, and are said to produce early senility. In this country the vapour bath is seldom used except medicinally. 7213. Warm and vapour baths have been icsed from time immemorial, either for purposes of hygiene, of luxury, or as remedial. By the eastern nations in warm climates they were, and still are, in high esteem; and as a means of preserving health were wisely enjoined by the laws of Moses and of Mahomet. Among the Greeks and Romans, who wore sandals and woollen garments, the use of the bath for mere ablution was more necessary than with the modems who practise a frequent change of linen ; and the mag- nificence and luxury of the public baths or Thermae, and even of the private baths of Rome, are attested by ancient authors, as well as by the ruins that remain of the baths : a description of these ancient baths may be seen in Vol II. " Pompeii," published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. Traces still remain at Bath, and other parts of England, of such baths, on a similar construction, erected by the Roman colonies in Britain. In modern Europe, the use of baths in general, and in particular that of warm baths, had declined, and almost become extinct, though it has of late been partially revived. Turkey and Russia form exceptions : in these countries, the vapour bath is still used nearly in the ancient manner, and in Petersburg the baths are on a scale of great magnificence; there almost every one, poor and rich, bathes at least once a week. 7214. There are two principal forms of the vapour bath : — 1. The free vapom- bath, or steam chamber as employed in Tui-key, the eastern countries, and in Russia : 2. The confined or solitary vapour bath as commonly used in this country. The first consists of a close room filled with vapour from water at a temperature varying from 160° to 180°, in which the bathers move about at pleasure. In these chambers there are benches along the walls arranged so as to rise one above the other as in an amphitheatre, on which the bathers sit, the heat being greatest on the uppermost seat. The vapour or steam is pro- duced by throwing water from time to time on red-hot stones. The bathers first enter an ante-room, in which they undress. On coming into the bath, they take their places first on the lowest benches, and move to the higher according to the length of their staj-. During the time of their remaining in this bath, the body is gently beaten with fresh birch twigs, and shampooed, by having the muscles gently pressed and kneaded ; they are like- wise rubbed with soap-suds, wheaten bran, &c. Cold water is also thrown upon the body by a douche tube. After being thus operated upon in various ways in the vapour by the attendants, they retire to another apartment containing only warm air, where they put on a flannel dress, and having drunk some warm fluid, they lie down to perspire ; after sufiicient time, they return to the ante-room, and di-css. It is a remarkable fact that the Russians, after having been subjected to the influence of the vapour bath, on coming out, expose themselves fearlessly to the cold, and even plunge into the snow without injury, which is supposed to restore the tone of the skin that had been relaxed by the hot vapour. ,,. J 721.5. A very simple kind of vapour bath, nearly resembling that used by the Hmdoos, is common in this country. The patient is seated naked on a chair, a, fig. 920., and a vessel full of boiling water is placed at his side. A large blanket is thrown over his body and head, together with the vessel of hot water : this confines the vapour that rises from the latter, when the vapour is to be breathed, or it is turned under his chin when it is not to be breathed. Perspiration is soon induced, and if it be necessary to keep up the action of the bath for any length of time, this may be done by dropping into the water bricks heated in the fire. . , 7216. A more elegant apparatus is formed by havmg a small steam boiler, bjig. 920., placed so that the smoke may be conveyed by an iron pipe into the chimney flue. The boiler must be furnished witli a safety-valve, and the fire is made below it; a small tube with joints, c, conveys the steam to the patient; and a basket, r/, is fixed at the top of the chair to give room for the patient's head, and prevent the blanket from collapsing. In some public bathing establishments a vapour bath is formed on a larger scale, and is supplied