DOMESTIC WINES. 627 Chap. IV. little, if at all, affected by the uncertainty -which attends the ripening the grape in our climate." He adds that " it i.s not too much to say that the use of this fruit is calculated to supersede that of all others for wine, and that its produce is almost tlie only species of domestic wine which is worthy of serious attention." 3525. It is necessary to observe, that in thus speaking of the possibility of imitating successfully wines of foreign growth. Dr. MaccuUoch alludes only to the light white wines of France and Germany, for he admits that it would be vain to attempt the manu- facture of such as the rich highly-flavoured Burgundy, or strong heavy wines like Port, Sherry, Madeira, &c. 3526. We have stated that the mode of proceeding in making wine must depend partly upon the class of wine to he produced; whether it is to be brisk, dry, or sweet, and no directions can be given of any use that do not take this into consideration, as upon this must depend the proportions of those principles which are to form the wine, saccharine matter, ferment, tartar, and water; and in these must be taken into account likewise the condition of the grapes, whether immature, or ripe and sweet. 3527. It may be convenient to the reader, who is supposed to have perused the previous : articles on fermentation, and the sketch of the general theory of wine-making, to re- : mind him that to produce a sweet wine, it is necessary that there should be more saccha- rine matter in the must than the ferment can act upon and decompose; consequently some ( of it remains in solution in the wine, being the cause of its sweetness. In dry wines, the ■ sugar and fenuent have been so exactly balanced, that both have been entirely decom- 1 posed by acting on each other during the fermentation, which has been carried on to its 1 utmost limit. In brisk wines, the fermentation has been interrupted a little before it was (Completed, by putting the wine into bottles, in which a slow fermentation goes on, pro- (ducing carbonic acid gas ready to escape with violence on uncorking the bottles. It is t therefore in the power of the operator to produce what class he thinks proper by managing tthe process accordingly. 3528. It is the usual defect of grapes grown in our climate to be deficient in sugar, and to I abound in the fermenting principle. This is sometimes the case even in the wine countries, :and there experience has taught to correct this defect when it occurs, by the addition of ssugar, of honey, or of sweet must evaporated by boiling until it has become a thick saccha- rrine fluid. With us sugar is the substance employed for this purpose. It is obvious that the sstrength of the wine must depend upon the quantity of sugar in the must, or rather the '[quantity decomposed in consequence of fermentation. But there is a limit to the addition .lof sugar: if too much is added, the ferment will not be sufficient to convert it into alcohol, aand the overplus wiU remain in the wine merely rendering it sweet; the water will like- i-wise then be in too small proportion, and the must will be too thick to ferment readily. IBut the whole of the sugar is seldom decomposed during the first stages of the fermenta- ition ; a portion is frequently attached to the wine, even those considered dry, long after tlthey are put into casks, and even after they are bottled. It is only by the slow fermentation iin casks and bottles, a process that often requires years for its completion, that the sugar ias entirely changed into alcohol and combined with the other ingi-edients of the wine. 3529. To make a brisk wine resembling Champagne, the grapes may be used in any sBtage of maturity in which they are most conveniently obtained. Those of different de- ggrees of maturation may even be mixed together, nor is it requisite to attend to the sselection of any particular variety. It is but rarely indeed that we are allowed any cbhoice in this matter. It is a great advantage, which affords greater facility in making this kind of wine, that it is not essential that the whole, or indeed any of the fruit should bbe ripe. Unripe grapes will in general be found equal, if not superior, to those which are ripe ; bbr, though the former are deficient in saccharine matter, the latter with us has seldom a 5^eat deal. Though our ordinary grapes, with the exception of those raised in hot- Mouses, are deficient in sweetness, this defect can be supplied by the addition of sugar to hhe must: the fermenting principle and the tartar are therefore of more value, which liliminish with the maturity of the fruit. The price of ripe fruit also is higher. The ikkins and stalks of the grapes may be subjected to the fermentation, or not: in making ^Dhampagne they are better separated : keeping them in will give an austerity which in Dome other wines is desirable: the seeds should not be bruised. In general, it will be mreferable to wait till the grapes exhibit the first tendency to ripen, or till the advance iff the cold season shows that no farther ripening can be expected : but a small propor- idon of crude grapes is useful; and where the vine is largely cultivated, fruit for this murpose may be obtained from the thinning usually practised. 35.'{0. The method of bruising the grapes to extract the juice is, in many parts of thfi {'Continent, extremely imperfect: treading with the feet effects it very unequally. A press ff some kind is preferable, and it should be one of considerable power, to extract per- ■ectly the tartrate which lies mostly in the skin. In the wine countries, the very best idne is sometimes made from juice obtained with scarcely any pressure ; this in Italy is S s 2