COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST. 939 Chap. I. 5494. Boasting parts of beef are the sirloin and ribs, and these bear in all places the hi'^hest price. The most profitable of these two joints at a family table is the ribs. The bones, if removed from the beef before it is roasted, will assist in forming the basis of a soup.' When boned, the meat of the ribs is often rolled up, tied with strings, and roasted; and this is the best way of using it, as it enables the carver to distribute equally the upper part of the meat with the more skinny and fatter parts at the lower end of the bones. .5495. Of mutton the leg and haunch are the most profitable joints, although m price higher than the shoulder or neck. But these last joints are sold at a less price per pound than others. Tlie loin and saddle (the two loins not separated) are expensive jomts, not m price only, but in the great proportion of fat and bone belonging to them. They are considered to be prime parts. 5496. Lamb. — The AM quarter is more advantageous in use than the/ore, but can scarcely be regarded as an economical part. In hot weather, and in a small family, the joints which the quarters form, when divided, are of so convenient a size as to render them much in request. j » ? • 5497. Of veal, the leg, from which the fillet is taken, the shoulder, the neck, and the loin, are all in turn serviceable in a family. When the leg is purchased altogether, without dividing the knuckle from it, the butcher usually considerably remits the price. In summer he is often willing to sell the leg altogether at twopence per pound less than he would sell the fillet alone. SuBSECT. 2.—Econmnij in the Use of Poultry, Game, and Fish. 5498. Poultry and game can only be considered as economical provisions in certain country districts. In town they are generally too dear to be often purchased by those who are obliged to study economy, and it may be well to remember, that, although useful as food for invalids, being light and not as stimulating as butcher's meat, these delicacies of the table are of less value in a family than the more substantial joints from the shambles. They are delicacies, but not essentials. Most of them require expensive gravies and sauces to render them agreeable as food. 5499. Fish may be occasionally useful in giving variety to the family table, but in London, except it be the most common kinds of fish, it cannot be regarded as amongst economical articles of food. It is not sufficiently nourishing to be employed as a substitute for animal food; and if it cannot be brought to table as a substitute, it is then a super- numerary dish, one that may be dispensed with, but which, when served, possess little in their flavour to recommend them unless accompanied with good and expensive sauces. In many maritime districts there is, it is true, such an abundance of fish, fresh, salted, and dried, as to render it the chief food of the immediate neighbourhood. SuBSECT. 3. — Hot Dishes prepared from cold Provisions. 5500. Cold meat goes further in use than hot meat, and by many persons it is preferred to the dishes prepared from them. But others, especially the aged, are better satisfied ■when the cold provisions are formed into warm and savoury hashes, minces, or ragouts. When the appetite begins to decline from the debility of increasing years, it is very de- sirable to tempt it by any of the wholesome arts of cookery. By such means as are here about to be suggested, with very little additional expense, one day's dinner may supply two or more dishes for that of the succeeding day. Roasted beef may be warmed again as, 1. Lobscous ; 2. Fodovies ; 3. Olives ; 4. Fried (as Staffordshire beef steaks); 5. Collops (with eschalot or walnut-pickle); 6. Hashed and prepared like haricot mutton (with carrotfl, turnips, and onions); 7. Slices put into a pie-dish with a gravy, antfseasoning of eschalots and pepper, then covered over with a coating of mashed potatoes, and baked before the fire. The fat of the inside of^ cold sirloin will make an excellent pie or pudding crust; the bones well stewed with peas and onions, .ind seasoned with pepper and salt, form sufiicient stock for old pea soup. .'■'.'jOl. Cold boUfd beef, 1. Minced and warmed up in fresh beef gr.ivy (flavoured with eschalot or onion); 2. Potted ; 3. Fried with cabbage (bul)ble and squeak) ; 4. Fried with a casserole of mashed potatoes. The water in which beef has been boiled, If not extremely salt, may serve as the stock of pea or carrot soup. .V)02. Veal m.ay be re-cooked, I. In thin slices with white sauce ; 2. Fried as cutlets (with egg and bread- crumbs); 3. As a ragout (with green peas) ; 4. As currie (with rice); 5. Made into rissoles with grated ham ; (). Patties with ham or oysters. hfyi}^. Catfs head, boiled, makes an excellent hash ; the gravy may be nrocured by reducing the liquor in which it was boiled. It is sometimes eaten cold with vinegar and mustnra, like brawn. .^r)04. Coid mutton m.ay bo hashed in several ways : 1. It may be cook(?d like venison (with red wine and sweet sauce) ; 2. It may be simplj' hashed, and flavoured with mushroom catsup ; 3. It may be made into ha- ricot with vegetables ; 4. Fried with egg .and bread-crumbs, and served with a made mutton gravy ; B. Broiled, ' and served on a rock of mjished potatoes. ."iSOS. Cold lamb may be,_l. Fried, and put into a hot stew of cucumbers for a short time previous to serving ; 2. Fried with epg an<l bread-crumbs and chopped parsh-y, garnished also witli sprigs of crisp parsley. Chops from cold loin may be fried and served on a dish of spinacli. Pork, of eold leg or loin, in slices or chops, will be excellent nicely fried In butler and surrounded with a thick pucee of apples. Pea soup may be made of the liquor In which a leg has been boiled, If not too salt.