1 :hap. VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUtLDING. 59 Nl^ot being necessarily connected with any particular style of architecture, they are capable 'ttf endless variety in their design. 248. Balconies are well known, and are made of stone or iron, and of various patterns. When of iron, it is an important precaution not to place the bars at such a distance that a .bhild coming into the balcony can get its head between ; since cases have occurred (and [!:he writer of this article was witness to one) where a child having put out its head between :hhe bars, could not by any means draw it back again, and a smith was obliged to file or s,>aw the bars through before the child could be extricated from this dangerous situation. SuBSECT. 14. —Decorative Sculpture and Carving. 249. There is generally more or less of these in every modern house. — The talents of the sculp- litor in marble are exercised occasionally in statues, bas-reliefs, vases, and other ornaments, as lilikewise in capitals and other parts of columns, and in chimney-pieces ; but this material ias too expensive to be in general use amongst us. Few of our native stones are fit for ildurable architectural sculpture, with the exception of one variety of magnesian limestone ilthat has been employed for the sculpture in the triumphal arch before Buckingham ppalace : Portland stone has been a good deal used; but it is coarse, and, except selected vwith care, not very durable, as may be seen in some of our public buildings. Bath stone iis easily carved, but is less durable than Portland. This deficiency in a good material lhas led to the invention of various kinds of artificial stone. 250. Coade's artificial stone was at one time much in use for architectural ornaments, lit is a sort of pottery, and easily worked, when soft, into any form : it is perfectly dura- !ble, but liable to warp in baking. 251. Ranger's artificial stone is composed of fresh burnt lime and sand, put into I moulds: this sets extremely hard, and has been employed with some success in building. 252. Atistin's artificial stone is excellent for architectural ornaments of aU kinds, as vases, ■ statues, chLmney-tops, &c.; and is now much in use. Ornaments in plaster of Paris we I have mentioned when describing the business of the plasterer : and those made in Parker's I cement when treating of stucco. 253. A great variety of ornaments, particularly light Gothic enrichments, are now made • with advantage in cast iron. 254. Carving in wood, at one time carried to such perfection, has declined through the inventions of a composition of whiting and linseed oil, in which ornaments are cast and fixed on to wood with glue ; and also by the employment now so very general, of papier tnachce. 255. A process for imitating wood carving may be mentioned as one of the novelties of the day. It is the invention of Braithwaite. The wood, instead of being cut as in the usual manner, has the pattern burnt out by the application of a heated metal mould, and the charcoal so formed is brushed out after each successive application of heat, until sufficient depth is acquired. Care, of course, must be taken that the wood does not inflame during the process : this is prevented by wetting the wood. 256. Papier machee is a very elegant manufacture, now much employed for forming ornaments, as a substitute for carving, and casts in plaster of Paris. It is made of'a pulp from rags or paper; which, being mixed with size and glue, and cast iu a mould, becomes extremely hard when dry. It is much used for flowers and other ornaments in the ceilings and various other places in apartments. There are several manufactories of it, one of the best of which is Messrs. Bickfield & Co., London. These ornaments are much less liable to break than those of plaster. If decorations of a sculptural kind are introduced, the design and execution should dis- play good taste; otherwise they are better entirely omitted. 257. Scagliola is a very beautiful imitation of coloured marble, and porphyries; so close an imitation indeed, that, without a near inspection, it cannot be distinguished from these stones. It is much employed in internal decoration, for columns, pedestals, and various supports of statues and vases, and sometimes to cover parts of the sides of apartments. It is composed chiefly of plaster of Paris, with colouring matters, cemented by glue, and having sometimes fragments of alabaster inserted, to imitate verd anticjue. From the nature of its composition, it is not fit to be exposed to the weather out of doors, and re- quires to be kept dry; but answers admirably in interiors, where great richness at a small expense is required. SunsECT. 15. — Watcrpipcs. We have already mentioned the necessity of an abundant supply of good water in every spot where it is resolved to build, cither from wells, rivers, or by some artificial means. In most cities of Kngland, this is now well managed by means of public water works, that supply every house with this great necessary of life. Tho disposing of the water pipes and cisterns in a building should not be left to the plumber only, however skilful; but all