SSa BEVERAGES USED IN THE BIUTISII ISLES. Book VIII. tub reached 94°. It is probable that the combination of the princijjles would be less perfect, and, therefore, the wine, on this account, would not be so good in the small vessel as in the large one; but the latter would have an advantage, that there being less heat produced, a smaller quantity of alcohol and aroma, upon which the excellence of the wine chiefly depends, would be lost by volatisation. The same observations apply to the fer- mentation of beer of any kind. 3114. The fermenting liquor becomes specificalh/ liijhter as the fermentation proceeds, a fact which is ascertained by an hydrometer, and this is called by brewers the attenuation; and they are in the habit of taking the specific gravity of the fermenting liquor frequently, in order to judge accurately of the degree to which the process has arrived, and regulating its management accordingly. The reason is this:—the specific gravity of alcohol is much less than that of water, which forms the principal part of every fermenting fluid ; that is, a certain quantity of alcohol will weigh less than the same bulk of water; of course a quantity of alcohol and water will weigh less than an equal quantity of water alone, and the greater proportion of alcohol which the water may contain, the lighter the fluid will be. Now, as alcohol is constantly generating during the process of fermentation, it is easy to see that any certain measure of the fermenting liquor will get lighter as the process of forming alcohol proceeds. 3115. The opinion ive have stated that sugar or saccharine matter is the only one capable of the vinous fermenta tion may appear to be con tradicted by some known facts. Uaw com, which contains much starch, and but very little sugar, is, when mixed with malted corn, found to ferment and aiibrd as much alcohol as if the whole was malt. Also alcohol may be abundantly obtained from potatoes, which contain much starch and scarcely any sugar, without any other preparation than boiling them in steam, breaking them into a fine paste with water, and adding a little raw wheaten flour and yeast. From these aud similar facts it might appear that starch may at once be converted into alcohol by fermentation, as well as sugai*. The observations by Kirchoif throw great light on this subject. He found that neither gluten nor starch, when kept in hot water separately, became sweet; but wlien a mixture of these two substances was put into similar circumstances, the starch was converted into sugar. Here it is plain, therefore, that this conversion of the starch was in consequence of some agency of the gluten. In the cases above alluded to, of raw corn and potatoes, there is some gluten present, by the action of which the starch might be changed into sugar -, and a very small quantity of gluten as a ferment is sufficient to produce this conversion into sugar. The mode by which raw grain is converted by germination into malt, which is a sweet substance, is a similar process ; and the production of sweet wort by the brewer or distiller from raw corn is another instance ; so is the sweet taste of bread. As soon as sugar has been formed from the starch by this means, it passes so rayidly into the vinous stage that the state of sweetness sometimes escapes notice. Thus it appears that not only do vegetables which contain actual saccharine matter pro- duce spirit, but those also which contain starch can be made to undergo the vinous fer- mentation, owing to the starch being converted into sugar, which we know it is capable of by several processes ; and that this newly produced sugar goes at once, and as soon as formed, through the vinous fermentation. 3116. The nature of ferments, we observed, was yet little understood ; but it would appear that various substances" are capable of acting as ferments, or exciting fermentation of some kind. This property appears to be possessed in the highest degree by vegetable gluten and vegetable albumen ; but caseous matter, fibrm, and gelatine, carbonic acid, &c., have also this power in some degree. But the substance which is usually employed to excite the vinous fermentation is the only one that has yet been studied with much attention, and it is much more rapid in its action than any other. That an acetous ferment exists is evident from the acetous fermentation being soon excited in a cask in which vinegar has been made. ACETOUS FEKMENTATION BY -WHICH VINEGAR IS PRODUCED. 3117. We stated, that if liquids which had passed through the vinous stage of ferment- ation were exposed to the air for some time, in a temperature between 40° and 80°, a new change took place, by which the alcohol disappeared, and was succeeded by an acid taste in the liquor. During this change, a slight intestine motion is perceived ; the liquid rises in its temperature about 10° or 1.5° ; it becomes turbid, and floating shreds appear, which subside at length into a gelatinous-like deposit. After some weeks, it becomes trans- parent, and is found to be converted into vinegar, which consists of acetic acid, wafer, and some impurities. This acid has been generated by this new fermentation; the alcohol produced by the vinous fermentation has been decomposed into its elementary principles and a new arrangement of them has taken place. 3118. Every liquor which has undergone the vinous fermentation is spontaneously and necessarily disposed to the acetous. Accordingly every vinoiis liquor continually tends to