BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 728 Sect. IV. GRAPE-SUGAR. 4153. The grape contains a large quantity of saccharine matter mixed with mucilage; and during the process of drying them into raisins, part of the sugar is seen to exude, and concrete spontaneously on the external part of the fruit, from which it might be supposed that to obtain this sugar in a purified state would be a work of no great difficulty. But the sugar of grapes is not of the same kind nor composition as cane-sugar, and therefore it cannot be made to imitate it. It agrees with sugar from starch or potatoes. It is not of so good a quality for domestic purposes as cane sugar, being soft, mealy, and liable to become damp; neither is it so sweet as that of the cane; that is, a greater quantity is required to produce an equal degree of sweetness, though the flavour is agreeable ; it is also very liable to curdle milk, and is, therefore, inapplicable to many culinary purposes ; and it does not answer for sweetening coffee. It is, however, made in some foreign countries, particularly in Hungary. 4154. Although it does not appear desirable to attempt making sugar from grapes, the rob or must of grapes, or the juice boiled down to the consistence of honey or syrup, has been long known, and is much used in some parts of France. The invention of this preparation is probably of great antiquity; and it was well known to the ancient people of Syria and Egypt, where it is still largely employed. Dr. Shaw, when in those countries, ascertained that two thousand quint.ils of tliis article are annually exported to Egypt from the neighbourhood of Hebron alone; and Dr. Kussell, in his" History of Aleppo," represents it as a common article of food at that IJlace. Tlie boiling of the juice destroys its liability to ferment; it is boiled to a half, and sometimes to a fourth part. Sect. V. StTGAR FROM TURNIPS, PAESNEPS, AND GRASS. 4155. Sugar from turnips. — During the continental system of exclusion, attempts were made in Germany to produce sugar from a variety of native plants, and according to Prof. Von Thaer turnips were found best adapted for that purpose. Sugar was made from them, equal in strength, colour, and hardness, to that from the sugar-cane. Carrots and parsneps have also been tried, and have yielded a considerable proportion of sugar. Many grasses contain sugar. A large grass (Holcus Cafer) brought from the south of Africa has begun to be cultivated in some parts of Italy, Bavaria, and Hungary for sugar; and what is made from it equals cane-sugar. But none of these vegetables yield sugar in such quantity as to render the manu^cture desirable. Sect. VI. STARCH-SUGAR AND SUGAR FROM POTATOES. 4156. The discovery that sugar can be made abundantly from starch is one of the most interesting in chemistry; the principle of which has been already described when treating " On Brewing." Wheat starch is not necessary; it may be made from potato starch: 100 parts of starch are to be mixed with 200 of water, and added gradually to another 200 of water, previously mixed with one of oil of vitriol, and brought to a boiling heat in a tinned copper vessel; the mixture is kept boiling for thirty-six hours, water being occasionally added to keep up the original quantity: some bone-black is then added, and also some chalk to get rid of the acid; it is afterwards strained and evaporated by a gentle heat to the consistence of a syrup, and set by to crystallise. This sugar resembles that of grapes, and not cane-sugar. If the quantity of oil of vitriol be increased to five or six parts, a few hours' boiling will suffice. It is said that eleven pounds of sugar may be obtained from 110 pounds of potatoes. From one to two parts of sulphuric acid is sufficient for each hundred parts of potatoes, if the heat be a few degrees above 212°. The heat may be applied in wooden vessels by Steam. Of late a manufactory has been established near London for making sugar from potatoes. The sugar is of the Muscovado kind, and is remarkably white, much resembling East India sugar. It is sold at a price considerably below that of cane-sugar; but it is im- portant to be known that it is entirely a different species of sugar, being much less sweet, and, therefore, in reality not a cheap sugar. There is great danger least potato sugars should be employed to adulterate the usual sugar from the sugar-cane ; indeed, we have reason to believe that this kind of adulteration is already put in practice. It is also em- ployed for distilling potato spirit, which is said to be used in the manufacture of home- made brandy, and for adulterating wines. Sago is employed in the same manner as potato starch.