EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY. Chap. XV. 297 position of felspar; the other is called retunze, ani consists of fresh or undeconiposed felspar ground very fine. Felspar in the latter state contains some potash, and is a sub- stance fusible in a considerable heat; but when the felspar has lost this ingredient in consequence of being decomposed by the weather, it falls into a earthy powder, consti- tuting the kaolin, and is then extremely refractory, not fusing in our powerful furnaces. By the union of two substances, one very infusible, the other fusible to a certain degree, the body of the porcelain ware is made : if the kaolin alone was used, the ware would have no transparency. The Chinese, likewise, occasionally employ another material instead of the kaolin, which they call hoaclw, and which answers to our soapstone, or perhaps agalmatolite. These materials being prepared with the greatest care, are formed into paste with water, moulded on the wheel, or cast in moulds, and the vessels so formed are exposed to a strong heat in a kiln, which produces the semi-vitrified appeai-ance which real porcelain always has. 1312. One of the chief properties of true porcelain is the great difficulty with which it is melted, being quite infusible in our ordinary furnaces; on which account, it is frequently employed in chemical experiments, to contain substances that are to be exposed to a degree of heat sufficient to fuse all metallic vessels except those of platina. Other properties are whiteness and semi-transparency, owing to the commencement only of vitrification in the process of baking ; and this latter quality is very often considered, though incor- rectly, as the distinguishing character of this ware, vulgarly termed china. But it is possible to obtain the whiteness and transparency of true porcelain in fabrics of the potter, without its infusibility and hardness; for if a species of pottery that is very fusible be exposed to a heat just sufficient to bring it to the commencement of vitrification, and then the fire be withdrawn, the transparency and appearance of porcelain will be produced : but such ware will vitrify by a degree of heat only a little higher than that by which it was made; yet articles manufactured in this manner are often called porcelain or china, and sold as such. 1313. From this account, there are two kinds of ware which receive the name of porcelain, and yet are essentially different; a circumstance that gives rise to very erroneous ideas on the subject. 1314. TJie genuine or true porcelain, like the Chinese, is called by the continental potters the hard porcelain; and is, as we have stated above, made entirely of kaolin or china clay, and petunze or undecomposed felspar ground to a fine powder; and the glaze of this is likewise felspar alone vitrified in the kiln. 1315. The false porcelain, called the soft or tender porcelain, is made of a vitriflable frit, composed of various ingredients, such as fine pipe-clay, calcined flints, bone ashes, with per- haps some china clay, and barilla, alum, &c., according to the particular practice and expe- rience of the manufacturer. The glaze of this latter kind is merely a kind of glass prepared on purpose, and made of siliceous sand, or flints, alkali, and oxide of lead; and is much softer and more easily scratched than the glaze of the true porcelain composed of vitrified felspar. This soft porcelain, likewise, is not only fusible in a heat not very considerable, and therefore incapable of being applied to the same uses as genuine porcelain, but it cannot resist the rapid changes of temperature like true porcelain, soon becoming covered with cracks even by the heat of boiling water ; it is generally more transparent than true porcelain, and, having some advantages in the processes of painting, is made so gay in its decorations that it easily imposes upon the inexperienced eye. It is this soft kind of porcelain that is mostly made in the English potteries, where, it appears, that compa- ratively very little true porcelain is manufactured. It was also the soft porcelain that was made in the manufactories established many years ago at Bow, and at Chelsea, where a great deal was formerly produced in imitation of the Dresden china. At that time, the true materials for porcelain, the china clay, which was employed in the continental pot- teries, was not known to exist in England. 1316. The first true porcelain made in this cownft'y was by Mr. Cookworthy, who, in 1708, discovered that Cornwall contained the earths necessary for that purpose : but although he had a patent for the exclusive right of using them, and succeeded tolerably well in the quality of his ware, which was confined to an imitation of the Chinese, the demand was not equal to the expense; owing, in a great measure, to the circumstance of Mr. Wedgwood having excited so much interest by the invention of several new kinds of pottery, foreign porcelain, or its imitations, became less an object of desire. 1317. Of late years, however, by the employment of the only true materials, together with great improvement in the painting, English porcelain has been made occasionally that scarcely yields to that of any other country. It is important to observe that there is a con- siderable difference in the quality of what is manufactured, owing to the various ingredients used. In the best English porcelain, the china clay from Cornwall is employed, and also the soap rock from the Lizard, together witli petunze, or ground compact felspar: but in several manufactories they content themselves with mixing with this a considerable pro- portion of i)ipe-clay, calcined flints, and bone ashes, with, perhaps, a little alkali to assist