Chap. VII. 995 LACE. ruented by a thread, called the gimp, much thicker than that of the net, -which is worked in among the meshes in the figure of flowers or of various elegant curves; and upon the taste exhibited in these much of the value depends. The various kinds of lace are deno- minated either from the places where they are manufactured, or from the particular manner of working: such as point net, Brussels or Flanders lace, made iu the Nether- lands ; blonde, made in France; pillow or bone lace, and bobbin net, made in this country. 5867. Not man;/ years ago, all lace ivas made by hand of flax thread; and as the process was extremely tedious, particularly when of great width, with complicated patterns worked by the needle, it was very expensive : at present, machinery is also employed to produce it from cotton thread; and the consequence is, that the price of lace has fallen in a degree of which we have scarcely any other example in manufactures. Lace made by hand, or, as it is called, jOi/fow lace and bone lace, is worked upon a pillow or cushion upon which a piece of stiff parchment is stretched, having a number of holes pricked through it to form a pattern of the intended lace. Through these holes, pins are stuck into the pillow; and the fine thread, wound upon small bobbins made of ivory or bone, are woven around the pius, and twisted round each other in various ways, to form the required pattern. Bedfordshire, Buckinghamshire, and Northamptonshire were the chief places in England where this kind of lace was made ; and it once gave occupation to multi- tudes of women in their own houses, till the machines deprived them of this occupation: at present still some earn a miserable subsistence by lace-making. 5868. The imitation of this manufacture by machinery was first attempted, at the close of the last century, at Nottingham. In 1809, Mr. John Heathcote invented and patented a machine for weaving the real twisted lace, like that made on the pillow : this was called the bobbin machine, and hence the lace produced by it is termed bobbin net. A consi- derable quantity of lace was made under this patent, which expired in 1824. Immediately a multitude of persons became desirous of embarking in a trade which had so lately yielded : a very large profit. " A temporary prosperity," says Mr. M'Culloch, " shone upon the trade, and numerous : individuals — clergymen, lawyers, doctors, and others, readily embarked capital in so I tempting a speculation. Prices fell in proportion as production increased: but the demand • was immense; and the Nottingham lace-frame became the organ of general supply, I rivalling and supplanting, in plain nets, the most finished productions of France and the Netherlands." The inhabitants of Nottingham look back to that period as to a sort of ! golden age, never equalled before or since. Dr. Ure remarks, that " it was no uncommon t thing for an artisan to leave his usual calling, and, betaking himself to a lace-frame of ■ which he was part proprietor, realise, by working upon it, 20s., 30.s., nay, even 40«. per day. In consequence of such wonderful gains, Nottingham, the birth-place of this new . art, with Loughborough and the adjoining villages, became the scene of one epidemic 1 mania." The lace-machines are of complicated and difficult construction ; but, to execute t them, journeymen clock-makers were brought from Birmingham, and afterwards master c clock-makers set about their manufacture ; in consequence of which a great many improve- imentshave been made, and some of them are among the most ingenious pieces of me- ichanism known. Competition and superabundant supply gradually caused this fever to f subside; but the manufacture has now taken its place amongst those of national import- . ance. From this invention, the most extraordinary changes have taken place in the prices ' of lace. It has been stated, that lace which was sold by Mr. Heathcote for five guineas a )yard, soon after the taking out of his patent, can now be equalled at Is. Grf. a yard ; that quillings, a narrow kind of lace, as made by a newly-constructed machine in 1810, and <8old at is. Gd. a yard, can now be not only equalled but excelled for Ijrf. a yard ; and that la certain width of net, which brought 17/. per piece twenty years ago, is now sold for 7s. lit is calculated that at present above 200,000 persons are employed in the manufacture ; one frame can produce 21,490 square yards of bobbin net annually; and about half of ^what is made in England is exported, in the unembroidered state, chiefly to the Conti- rnent; but it appears that, owing to smuggling lace-machines out of this country, manu- i factures are establishing there which bid fair to rival us, if not surpass us, on. account of : their lower prices of labour from cheaper living. It is remarkable, also, that, as lace- )imachines are now worked by steam power, they do so much more work than the first- : invented machines, that the possessors of the latter suffer as much as did the hand lace i makers when machines were first invented. There are in this country at present upwards "of 4000 lace-machines, and Messrs. Boden and Morley of Derby make 40,000 square ■ yards of lace per week, a quantity that would cover eight acres of land ; and it is calcu- lated that the value of the lace manufactured in England in a year exceeds two millions -sterling. After the lace comes from the machine, it has to go through the operation of hhaving the loose filaments burned off by singeing in a gas flame. 5869. The embroidering of lace, or working figured patterns on it, was at first all done tiby hand, in the tambour ; and many females still earn a miserable pittance by their labour .3 8 2