130 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. train oil is more diffioilt to bo procured. The polar regions in tlie southern hemisphere are now resorted to for the wliale fishery. The invention of gas light, however, for lighting the streets, has much diminished the demand for whale oil. 593. There are various other fish oils, used either for giving light, or for various manu- facturing purposes. Iceland whale oil, or fin-fish oil, from the Balana nordcaper, also'from the Balanoptera gib- da. Sea unicorn oil, from the Monodon vulyaris, finer than any other kind of whale oil. Por- poise oil, from the Delphinns Fhoca:na, of a fine quality. Sword fish oil, from the Dclphimis gladiator, of excellent quality. Sea lion oil, from the Phoca leonina. Seal oil, from the Phoca vilulina. Morse oil, or sea-cow oil, from the Triahicus rosmarus. For various manufacturing purposes, there are, shark oiV from the barking shark; cod oil, from the liver of the cod ; herring oil, obtained by pressing herrings when they are very plentiful; conger oil, from the conger eel ; pilchard oil, by pressing that fish. 594. Fish oil requires to be petrified, before it is fit for burning. At first it is very thick ; but on standing, a whitish mucilaginous matter is deposited, and the oil becomes trans- parent. It is then of a reddish-brown coloui-, and has a disagreeable smell. The modes of purifying it are in general kept secret by manufacturers : but the follow- ing processes have been practised with some success. If one or two per cent, of sulphuric acid be added, the mixture assumes instantly a dark green or brown hue, and when allowed to stand quietly for some time, deposits a dark coloured matter, which consists of a chemical combination of the sulphuric acid with a body thus separated from the oil, which becomes, in consequence, more limpid and burns with a brighter flame, especially after it is washed with steam, and clarified by repose »nd filtration. Any remaining moisture may be expelled by the heat of a water bath. Oil has been purified by agitating it violently with one sixth of spring water, and then letting it rest for 48 hours : the transparent oil will then be found swimming at the top, while all the feculencies will have subsided to the bottom with the water. Rape oil so treated has been found to burn as well as spermaceti. A chum answers the purpose of performing the operation, with a cock to draw ofp the oil. Some use lime water in pre- ference to that of springs. Whale oil may also be purified without heat, by filtering several times through char- coal. For this purpose some employ the long cylindrical bags used by the sugar refiners, which are made of stout canvass and lined with flannel, so as to admit of a thickness of an inch of powdered charcoal, which detains the impurities of the oil. After passing through this filter, the oU is put into a cistern containing water at the bottom to the depth of about six inches, in which blue vitriol is dissolved in the proportion of an ounce to every twenty gallons of water : this divests the oil of any remaining impurities, and like- wise of the greater part of its unpleasant smell. It is further cleaned by a second washing in another cistern of water, where it is allowed to remain for several days, and again it is filtered through charcoal, and lastly through flannel. A patent has been taken out for clarifying oil by means of heat: the oil is put into a tin kettle, which is fixed within another somewhat larger, and having water in the manner of a glue pot; or steam may be introduced between the two: a close case is fitted on, and openings are made for supplying water and oil, and also for placing a safety valve. By keeping the oil some time in a moderate heat, a portion of the mucilage and other useless ingredients rise to the surface as scum, and another coagulates and sinks to the bottom, the oil remaining pure. One advantage which this method has over that by exposure to the air and sun, is, that it can be practised at all times and states of weather. Dossie's process for purifying fish oil is as follows :—Add one ounce of pulverized chalk and half an ounce of slaked lime, to a gallon of crude fetid fish oil, then stir in carefully half a pint of water. The stirring is to be repeated after an hour has elapsed, and at other convenient intervals, for two or three successive days: then add an ounce of pearl ashes, dissolved in four ounces of water, and continue the stirring at intervals, for some hours. Next add a solution of two ounces of salt in one pint of water, and agitate the mixture occasionally during the next two days. Now the whole ought to stand still for several days, when the brine will separate from the oil, which will be greatly improved both in smell and colour. Should a greater degree of purity be required, the propor- tion of pearl ashes ought to be increased ; and the period intervening between the addition of the salt water prolonged : lastly, if the same operation be repeated, and the quantity of ingredients reduced one half each time, the oil may be brought to a very light colour, and its smell rendered equally sweet as the common spermaceti. By this treatment, it is said, the coarsest cod or seal oil may be made to burn well. The fullowinq process for purifying fish oil is given in " Brewster's Journal." Dissolve about one pouiid of chloride of Vime in about one gallon of water, draw off the clear solu- tion, and mix it thoroughly with about one hundred weight of the putrid oil; then add about three ounces of sulphuric acid, previously diluted with sixteen or twenty parts of water, and boil with a gentle heat, till the oil begins to drop clear from a spatula.