HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VL 352 Bugs often liarboiir in plaster-work; but, unless the paper be broken or loose, they cannot find their way through It. II it he suspected that the enemy is secreted under the skirting-lioard It mav be blocked up liy pasting, or by glueing strong brown paper over the chink between the skirting-board and the floor. SuBSECT. 2. — The Moth. 1706. The moth is a petty, yet formidable, enemy in a house. In all woollen manufac- tures, blankets, flannels, moreen curtains, carpels, as well as in furs, and amidst feathers, it seeks to form its nest and to deposit its eggs ; whence in the spring of the year issue the larvaj which from such substances derive nourishment. In this stage of the insect's existence the ruin takes place of the fabrics upon which it feeds. This is visible in the innumerable small circular holes through which it has eaten, and which, destroying the strength and tenacity of the material render it worthless. Many persons suppose that moths are produced in clothes that are laid by, merely by their being shut up in closed places ; but this is an error. None of the little larva; or caterpillars of the moth, that really do the mischief, ever appear among clothes or articles of any kind, provided none of the winged moths can have access to them to lay their eggs there, for no insects can be engendered otherwise than by the usual method of propa- gation. The moth is an insect that, like all other winged insects, goes through three A transformations. The winged moth, that flies about in the dark, does not, cannot, eat or I destroy cloth of any kind: but it lays its eggs in woollen articles, upon which alone nature I dictates to her that lier young must feed. These eggs in time produce little caterpillars, I and it is they that eat holes in and destroy clothes, Sfc. After a time these caterpillars assume " the pupa state, out of which burst forth tlae winged insect, to proceed, as before, described, in laying eggs. Fi'om this account it is easy to see that, provided you car?* prevent the winged moth from having access to what you wish to preserve, no injury^ by moths can happen to them. For instance, if you tie up any article that is quite free from moths in a bag of linen, cotton, or paper, no winged moth can enter the bag to lay its eggs, and therefore the bag will be a perfect security. But it is to be observed the winged animal is very cunning, or ratlier instinct impels it to search with great care for suitable places to lay its eggs; and, therefore, simply putting things into drawers, however tight, or cover- ing them over with paper, will not be sufficient: if there are chinks by which the winged animal can insinuate itself, such places will not be safe from moths. Nature has likewise given the instinct to moths, not to lay their eggs in places liable to be often disturbed : therefore, if you shake any articles very frequently, it is not likely that moths wiU ijleposit their eggs there ; and if not there can be no caterpillars to do mischief. Thes'^ facts being clearly understood, the means of guarding against these destructive insects will be comparatively easy. Should any articles of wool appear to be beginning to be attacked by moths, beating and brushing should be resorted to, and, if possible, they should be put into hot water to destroy the young larvae. It sometimes happens that on' discovering the winged moth in some places, they are driven out to fly M about, when they resort to some other part of the house, where they will be more safe. I This must, if possible, he prevented; otherwise they will continue to propagate some- I where, and the breed will be kept up. Even if driven out of the house they have been f known to enter again at the windows. 1707. Curtains of moreen or cloth, when taken from the windows for the summer season, should be well cleansed (by brushing and shaking in the open air) from every particle of dust, and then folded and enclosed in strong unfractured linen, or brown holland wrappers, and laid away in some drj- airy room or closet. If the moth have not previously deposited its mischievous embryo, the curtains so enveloped may be considered as safe, without further notice, for the summer. But if any doubt be entertained on this point, it will be requisite to open the envelopes once or twice during the three or four months of the summer, and to take out and shake well in the open air, if the weather be dry, the curtains or other articles enclosed. 1708. // is said that the cloth moth declines as a receptacle for its eggs any spot in which it c^n detect the I odour of the wood of the cedar, or camjihor, Russia leather, black peppercorns, and the taltoxv of a rush- light. It is, therefore, very usu.al to enfold woollens and furs with one or other of these supposed specifics. But it is a fact that furriers adopt no other me.ins of s.iving their stores of furs from the moth than that of frequently shaking each article in the open air and in the sun. | SuBSECT. 3 TTie House Fly. 1709. The common house fly it would be vain to attempt to exclude from our houses entirely. Wherever there are food and warmth there wiU they find entrance. The only remedy for the injuries they inflict on clean paint work and whitewash, or on the cook's bright dish covers, is to wash and clean them as often as the spots become very apparent, and to cover over such articles as do not admit of being so cleansed. Kitchens are the favourite resort of the common fly. In these a fly trap, as it is called, may be used to attract the fly to settle upon it rather than upon the walls or ceiling. Flics seem to incline to settle more on suspended objects than on any other; and thence the use of "the fly trap," which is tisually formed of papers of various colours cut out fancifully, in order to render them somewhat ornamental as well as usefiil. Fly poison is to be procured from chemists; hut there seems little advantage to he