Book VIIL BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 712 serving as a filter. The objection to this method is, that the water remaining but a very short time in contact with the coffee cannot extract from it the -whole that is required. Any cofiFee-pot with such a bag fitted into its mouth is termed a coffee biggin. 4073. Evans's apparatus for malting coffee is intended to let the coffee soak longer in the water, and thus extract more of its principles, a b, fig. 590., is a tin cylinder with handles and a cover, which is neai'ly filled with water, and placed upon a stand, c d, containing a lamp, e is a low cylinder made of two circular tin plates at a small distance apart, and closed all round ; this being filled only with air will float upon the water, and will bear to have the bag with the coffee, suspended to it beneath in the water; after the latter has boiled long enough, the decoction of the coffee will mix with the water, but perfectly fine, and may be drawn fit for use by the stop- cock. 4074. Count Rumford's percolator is an improvement upon this, and is in very general use, under the name of coffee filterer. a a, fig. .')91., is a cylin- drical vessel of metal of any kind, silver or tin japanned on the outside ; this vessel fits into another, b b,'m the form of a tea-pot or any other. The cylindrical vessel has a bottom that is per- forated with numerous very small holes, and into this, the lid being taken off, the coffee is put resting on the perforated bot- tom. To press the coffee as compactly as possible, that the water may not penetrate so quickly as in the bag, a cylindrical plate of metal, also perforated, is forced down, guided by a metal stem ; and this stem passes through another perforated plate at top to keep it steady. The coffee being packed close, by pressing the stem down hard several times, water is poured upon the upper- most perforated plate, and it passes through the perforations to the coffee, through which it makes its way slowly, dissolving the Fig. 591. soluble part which descends very slowly into the lower vessel. Fig. 592. b b. This infusion of the coffee, which may now be poured out, is perfectly transparent, and the whole of the aroma is preserved. There are two objections to this apparatus in its original form. It does not entirely ex- haust the coffee of its virtues; and conse- quently, as it requires a greater quantity of coffee than the common method, it is not the most economical, although a very convenient and elegant mode. But the greatest objection is, that if there be much thickness of coffee, or it be pressed very hard, the liquid requires so much time to percolate, that it is too much cooled before it can be poured out. This last objection is removed by placing the percolator over a spirit lamp, as in fig. 592., or it may be placed on a small vessel containing an iron heated; but care must be taken to have some method of fixing securely the percolator to this stand, after the heater is put into it, that the latter may not drop off in carrying. For this ^ purpose there should be handles to the percola- tor; and in this form, or with a lamp, it is at present much used, and is, perhaps, upon the whole, the best apparatus for the table, when a small quantity of coffee only jg wanted. 4075. When much coffee is required for parties, the way is to make and clear it in the kitchen, and send it up in a coffee urn with a lamp,./?<7. 593. 407G Mr. Jones of the Strand, London, /wrs nn n/);j(ir«<M.? for makmg coffee: a, fig. 504., is a vessei placed over a lamp, into which the proper quantity of water is put; b is a double vessel, the internal one consisting of a perforated metal cup, to hold the ground coffee ; c is another vessel fitting on b, and having a valve at d. AVhen the water in a boils, the steam ascends amongst the coffee in b; and when it accumulates in sufficient force, its pressure upon the surface of the water in a causes the boiling fluid to rise in the pipe c c, and to be discharged in the vessel c ; the lamp may then be blown out, and the liquid will