OF ANIMAL FOOD. ::hap. II. 365 n'c perceive that the greater part of a portion of flesh consists of water, and tliat tliere Is not an ounce in a uound of solid matter that can be assimilated ; but this ounce, it may be supposed, is extremely nutritive. 1782. The solution of the gelatine of flesh forms sonp by boiling, and, from its presence, iiiquid soup is liable to become sour in keeping, acetous acid being formed. 1783. Tlte flesh of various animals, as is ivell knoicn, differs in flavour, and, in a slight L en-ree, in composition. The quantity of blood in it augments with the age of the animal; 1 .nd the flesh of young animals contains more gelatine than of old : that of the same j.pecies varies, as has been observed previously, by the circumstances of sex, feeding, age, Uc. The digestibility is likewise much affected by the modes of cooking. 17S4. 77ie muscular fibre is likewise possessed of a property called contractility, that is, it aas always a tendency to contract in length. This is shown when a muscle is divided across miring the life of the animal, or soon after it is dead ; for the wound opens very wide, r.-om the contraction of the part on each side, and this is the basis of the operation called <-imping in fish, which is cutting across to cause the fibres to shrink and become firmer, "i'he state of the fibre after death is also influenced by the manner in which the aaimal las been killed. If it be killed suddenly while in full health, the muscles are firm and ^Dntracted, and they remain a long time rigid without undergoing putrefaction ; whereas, 111 the contrary, if death ensue after violent exercise, the muscles are relaxed and soft, nve lost all their contractility, and much sooner become putrid. This is the origin of me barbarous practice of baiting cattle previous to slaughtering them, in order tojnake me flesh tender. 1785. The liability of flesh to become putrid, Hatchett supposes, is chiefly owing to the 'latine; for, when this is removed, the remainder of the fibres, if dried, is not liable to iitrefy. When flesh is submitted to combustion by fire, all the proximate principles are ^composed, and the elementary principles are dissipated, except perhaps the carbon, which "jnains in the form of a black cinder. :1786. Tendons consist chiefly of gelatine with a little albumen; consequently, they -•ssolve partly in long boiling. SuBSECT. 6 Bone. 11787. Bones compose the solid frame-work of the body : they are the fixed joints against haich the muscles act to produce motion. When a bone is divided longitudinally, so as disclose its internal structure, we observe that the external part is the most compact, lid "the interior more cellular or spongy. The proportion of the compact to the cellular rrt depends upon the particular bone and tlie species of animal, as likewise upon its I'B, the bones of young animals being softer, and those of older animals becoming more iinse. Certain parts of bones also are hollow, or filled up only by a very open texture nasisting of minute fibres crossing like net-work. In the cavities of bones the marrow icontained, and aU through the spongy or cellular substance there is dispersed more or -s of an oily matter, very analogous to marrow, but more fluid. 11788. When bones are examined chemically, they are found to consist chiefly of an ■thy base, called phosphate of lime, which is lime and phosphoric acid. Of this material, : ;ether with cartilage, the skeleton of the bone is composed ; and the numerous minute ■Is and interstices are filled up with gelatine, and the oily matter above mentioned, i 1789. The structure of bone and the existence of the phosphate of lime may be easily shown. aa bone be burned in the fire, it will generally at first flame and become black in the «ae manner as flesh ; this arises from the combustion of the oily matter contained in the 'ities or cancelli of the bone ; and, as the hydrogen of the oil is the elementthat affords 1 flame, when that is dissipated, much of the carbon is left, which gives the black colour iilialf-burnt bones ; but, by a continuance of the heat, the carbon likewise flies off, and bone will become red-hot; in this state it consists only of phosphate of lime, deprived j'all the animal cement. When the bone cools, it will be of a white colour, and then internal structure may be easily obsei-ved by breaking it across, and viewing it through DQagnifying glass. This white substance, when ground to powder, is called bone-ash, I. is used for various purposes ; among others, polishing, under the name of burnt • tshom. :7yo. When bones are broken to pieces and boiled for a considerable time in water, the aitiue and oily matter are extracted, the latter rising to the surface as fat, leaving only cartilage with the earthy matter, which are not soluble in water or scarcely so; and rry cook knows how to procure a certain portion of gravy by this means. The ex- "tion of the .soluble part is much promoted by rasping the bones, since thus all the -s in which it is contained are laid open ; while the bones are only broken in pieces, the later part of the gelatine remains still locked up in the hard substance of the boue. A : hod of extracting the whole of the gelatine for the purpose of soup will be shown when lUting of " Soup from Bones." 01. T/w/jonrs of ciittii'slaui^btcn-d in London ssary to consume them from lUnc to time. Tliis process was reserved lor some lioly tlay, or period of