322 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. StafFordsliire. The edge given by the grindstone is exceedingly rough ; and although it may serve for many coarse purposes, it is too uneven for the nice cutting tools, and therefore a smoother edge must be obtained by a finer grindstone, and then by setting on a hone. Hones are of diflFerent kinds, for grinding down quicliiy, or for giving a very fine edge. Of the former is the Turkey stone, which comes from Smyrna, much used iu sharpening carpenter's tools ; as also the Ayr stone, and a few others, found in N. Wales and Devonshire. The best hone we have for giving a fine edge to razors and similar instruments is the German hone, a cream-coloured stone that comes from the slate moun- tains near Ratisbon in Germany, and is sent all over Europe. Oil is generally used in setting, but those who dislike the dirt of this may use soap and water with the hone, which answers nearly as well as oil, and is more cleanly. A certain dexterity is essential in attempting to give an edge on the hone, which it would be vain to describe in words ; and we would therefore recommend any one wishing to acquire the power of setting their own razors or other tools, to see the process performed by one who has skill. Sect. III. KEMARKS ON POLISHING METALS. 1431*. The following remarks upon the polishing of metals are given, not so much from their connection with the cutler's business, as for their application to various cases in domestic economy. The polishing of metals differs according to the kind of metal, and the kind of manufacture ; nevertheless, there are some general principles to be attended to as being common to all, of which it may be useful to have a clear idea. All polishing is begun in the first instance by rubbing down the surface by some hard substance that will produce a number of scratches in all directions, the level of which is nearly the same and which obliterate the marks of the file, scraper, or turning tool, that has been first em- ployed. For this purpose coarse emery is used, or pumice and water, or sand and water, applied upon a piece of soft wood, or of felt, skin, or some similar material. AVhen these first coarse marks have been thus removed, they next proceed to remove the marks left by the pumice stone by finely powdered pumice stone ground up with olive oil, or b}' finer emery and oil. In some cases, certain polishing stones are employed, as a kind of hard slate used with water. To proceed with the polishing, still finer powders are used, as Tripoli, and rotten stone, which is still finer, and is found only in Derbyshire. Putty of tin, and crocus martis, are also used for high degrees of polish. But the fact is, in respect to polishing, that the whole process consists merely in removing coarse scratches by substituting those which are finer and finer, until they are no longer visible to the naked eye; and even long after that, if the surface be examined by a microscope, it will be seen that what appeared without any scratches is covered all over with an infinity of them, but so minute that they require a high magnifier to be discovered. The operator, therefore, who understands this principle, will know how to vary his polishing substances according to the nature of the article he wishes to polish. It is quite evident that his polishing material must be able to scratch in a coarser or finer manner the substance he is desirous of polishing, for wearing down is only effected by producing minute cuttings or scratches. It is evident also that great care must be taken to have the last polishing material uni- formly fine; for a single grain or two of any coarse substance mixed with it wiU produce some visible scratches instead of a perfectly polished surface. See remarks on polishing materials in Sect. XVII. Book V.; the coarsest being emery, sand, glass-paper ; the next in degree, brickdust, washed emery, tripoli; and the finest, rotten stone, whiting, or chalk, putty of tin, and blacklead. Oil is generally used in giving the highest degree of polish ; and the greatest care is necessary to prevent any of the coarser particles getting mixed with the finishing powders.