541 CUAP. I. WATEK. Fifi. 542. water was shown in Book VIII. Chap. I. Sect. V. Two methods iire resorted to for reaching it ; digging wells, and boring the earth. 3040. Considerable difficulty is experienced in fixing upon the spot where it is likely that water may be obtained by sinking a well; and much judgment is required, as the operation is very expensive. 3041. Well-digging is performed by persons who pursue this avocation exclusively, as it demands peculiar knowledge and practice. The form of wells is always circular. If they should happen to be formed in chalk, no stone or brick lining is necessary ; but if made in soft strata, which is most frequently the case, to prevent this from falling in, they are lined within with bricks ffli',^->r<Pd=s=;=sa5;:3^>a ^^'"^ without mortar, which operation is termed ll' c ^^^^^T T^^^r: „ steening. The steening of a well is a mode of " IhnTI I inrl building rather curious, as the internal wall is built and sinks down as the well proceeds. In beginning it, a few feet from the surface a ring or circular curb of wood, called a barrel curb, a bed, fig. 542., the size of the well, is laid on the bottom of the digging, and bricks built on it, shown at c a, all round, to a considerable height; the well is then proceeded with, and the well-digger cautiously digs away the earth at d and b, from below the curb, which, by degrees, sinks down from the weight of the brick- work upon it. When the curb has got to the lowest part of the well that is being formed, the latter is again carried some way further down, and again the curb and the steening is lowered by the same process as before. This curb is left in the well. K the depth is very great, and the steening will not sink any further, sometimes they form a new curb within the first, and cause that to sink as they proceed. '\^^len they arrive at a spring, it will sometimes burst out with great violence, so as to endanger the safety of the well-diggers, who are then drawn up with all expedition. The depth at which water is found varies in every situation according to the geological struc- ture of the country. This latter branch of knowledge affords the only clue by which the probabiUty of finding water, and at what depth, can be conjectured upon rational grounds; and well-diggers, unacquainted with thia useful science, can prognosticate only from a kind of knowledge and practice of a very limited nature, and are extremely apt to mis- lead their employers, not always from dishonest motives, but frequently from a total mis- conception of the true principles upon which they ought to proceed. The thickness of the steening is generally four inches, or half a brick, and the well should be domed over with brickwork, leaving a man-hole twenty inches square, covered with a Yorkshire stone, having a strong iron ring let in in the top to lift it out by. It is usual to contract with the well-digger for a certain depth, that at which water is expected, paying him as extra, if the depth should exceed, or deducting if it should fall short of, what is supposed. 3042. Boring the earth to obtain water has of lute been practised with great success, not onl)- in tliis coun- try but on the Continent, and in many other parts of 1 Q the world; and it is found to be a very great saving of 0 IT expense. In consequence, many places are now sup- A ini plied with this useful fluid where formerly it was entirely wanting. The operation is extremely simple. It consists in fixing an auger, or other boring instru- ment, to long iron rods screwed on to each other, which are turned by the action of men with a cross- bar. The operation is usually begun by digging a well six or eight feet deep, in the centre of which the boring instrument is placed. The nature of this in- strument depends upon that of the stratum to be pene- trated, and it is changed accordingly when a stratum of a different degree of hardness is arrived at. Soft clay, or loose sandy soil, is penetrated by an auger in the form of a hollow cylinder, with a longitudinal slit, a,fie. 543., or without a slit. This auger is screwed into the rod. with a cross handle turned by the men. If the ground is very hard, a chisel, b, is screwed to the rod, and is turned round in the same manner. But to assist the action of this tool, an elastic pole, c, is connected by a chain with the borer, and made fast at one end, while a labourer keeps continually giving to the other end an up and down motion, which, corresponding to the beating motion of the men below, helps to diminish their labour. When the ground is thus perforated, as far as the chisel and its rod will go, they must be with- drawn. In order to introduce a cylindrical auger, ef, which has a v.ilve within opening upwards ; this, Eassing through the rubbish loosened by the chisel, rings It up, as it rises up through the valve but can- consisting of a hollow cone having a spiral cutting edge Fig. MS. not return. Somctimct an auger like c is used,