i02S ARTICLES CONNECTED WITH DRESS. CUAP. IX. G070. The process of pin-making, as it h.is been usiiiilly practised, is the following: — The brass wire, of which pins .ire ni;ide,'is piirciiased by the manufacturer in (?oils of about 22 inches in diameter ; and the first operation, after drawing it to the proper thickness, is to render the wire thoroughly straight, and it is then cut into lengths of five or six inches ; and the operation of pointing is similar to what we have described in making needles. It used to be a very unhealthy employment from inhaling the brass dust; but, by particular contrivances lately introduced, this evil is obviated. A lad twelve years of age will point 16,0(10 in an hour. When the pointing is fniished, the pieces are put into guages, and the pins cut oH' to the proper length ; and the process is repeated upon the rem.ainder of the pieces of wire. The next process is m.nkiug and putting on the heads. The head of a pin is made of a piece of smaller wire, twisted about the end and riveted on. The first thing is to convert a piece of small wire into a spiral by wrapping it round another piece of wire the thickness of the pin; and that having been d ine, the workman divides this spiral with a pair of shears into pieces of two turns each, with surprising dexterity, letting them fall into a basin. Fixing these on the pin is performed by women and children. Dipping the pointed end of the pin into the basin containing the prepared heads, they get one of them on, and move it along to the other end where it is to be fixed. Kacii ojierator sits before a steel stake having a small cavity, into which one half of the new head will fit; immediately above is a steel die, having a corresponding cavity for tlie other half of the head ; tliis latter die can be raised by a pedal moved by the foot, and it falls through a very small space, perhiips from one to two inches, the weight being from seven to ten pounds. There is a cavity in the centre of these dies, to admit the body of the pin, and to prevent its being injured by the blow of the die which is produced by raising it and letting it fall upon the he.ad. for the purpose of tightening it A single person will head from 10,000 to 15,000 pins in a day. The pins are now ready to be whitened or tinned. To remove any grease or dirt which may adhere to their surface, and also to make them a little rough, which facilitates the adherence of the tin with which they are to be covered, they are placed in a boiler with a pickle consisting of water and cream of tartar; after this they are kept for an hour in a boiling strong solution of tartar in which grain tin is put, an operation which is repeated once or twice. By an exchange of chemical affinities the tin is transferred to the surface of the brass pins, which are then removed to a tub of water into which some bran has been put, in order to wash off ihe acid liquor. The pins, though tinned, are not yet bright; and they are next put into bowls, with hot dry bran, and well shaken ; by this they are thoroughly cleaned .and dried, and also polished. The bran is sepa- rated by winnowing, and the pins remaining in the bowls are ready for papering. This last process is per- formed by women and children. The papers are channelled by a sort of crimping-iron, and the pins, taken from the howls by means of a comb wliich places all the heads in one direction, are pushed through the paper with great expedition, a little iron lever being used for that purpose. All the processes employed in the art of pin-making, if added together for one pin, would occupy rather more than seven hours and a half of time ; yet by the division of labour, and by making so many at the same time, it is possible to manufacture them with profit for the small price at which they are sold. The most ingenious machinery for the manufacture of pins is that patented by Mr. Wright, of Wellclose Square, London ; by this the whole of the above processes are performed without the assistance of any manual labour ; and it has been stated that if all the establishment were at full work, it could supply the consumption of the whole kingdom, estimated at 16,000,000 pins per day. 6071. The various sizes u/ carmiion pins, as thej- are found at the haberdashers', are — Lillskins, short whiles, gilt short whites, gilt middlings, gilt corkings. 1 hese are made up in papers. Pound pins are sold by weight in sorted sizes or not. Lace pins are very long and slender, for fixing any thing on to lace. Black pins, and white pins with black heads, are of various sizes. A new pin has lately been patented by Taylor and Co., which has the head maiie out of the same wire as the body of the pin ; not put on, as is the case with common pins. The patent pins, made by Durnford and Co., are much superior to the common pins, being of stifier wire, and having the heads Hat and better fixed on : their stitlliess makes them much more agreeable to use: they are not retailed in less than sixpenny papers. Thimbles arc well-kno-wn guards for the tip of the finger in sewing, and to push tlie needle readily through; they have either a closed end, pitted, or they are without one, and called the open thimble, used by needle-men, as tailors and upholsterers. They are made of brass, silver, and steel, or gold and steel. 6072. Thread. — It is the usual custom with many haberdashers to describe by the term thread only that which is made of flax, or linen thread ; and young shopmen have often no idea that anything else is entitled to this name ; whereas it is proper to know, that every small line made of fibres of any kind for the purpose of sewing with, or for the rudiments of cloth of any sort, is a thread, whatever may be the material : thus, pro- perly, there is not only linen thread, but -woollen or worsted thread, silk thread, cotton thread, and even gold and silver thread. In some countries thread is made of a great many other materials, as of the fibres of various plants, and the sinews of animals. Although we have observed that linen thread is the usual distinctive term for that which is made of flax, yet the term flax thread would be more appropriate, though this is not in use, since linen is the cloth made from flax, and not the material of thread. When thread is spun for weaving, it is termed yarn; when two of these are twisted together for sewing, it is called sewing thread, or twist, as it is twisted less or more. 6073. Thread made of flax, or linen thread. — Much of this was formerly imported from the Netherlands, as Bruges thread. Lisle thread, &c. used for sewing cambric; but these are now superseded by our own manufactures. The greatest quantity of sewing thread is made in Scotland. White or stitching thread is used for sewing white articles where great strength is required ; but in general, sewing cotton is now so well made, that it is very generally employed instead of thread of flax. Wire thread is a kind much twisted, used by bonnet makers. Patent or Shrewsbury thread is of various colours, and is sold in pound papers for sewing strong coarse articles. Scotch thread is of all colours and thick- nesses. Lace thread is for mending lace. 6071. The different kinds of cotton thread arc chiefly divided into twist, yarn, and sewing thread. The first IS either water twist or mule twist. IVater twist, which we have mentioned in describing the m.anufacture of cotton, is so named because chiefly made by water mills, is used for weaving calicoes ; it is spun hard with a great deal of twist. Mule twist is m.ide by steam engines for weaving nmslins and the finest cotton goods, and is somowh.nt softer than the former. ■Stijcking 1/arn, fnr slocking weaving, is spun softer than twist, antl two threads arc afterwards doubled together, and then slightly twisted round each other. 3 U