1228 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVr. on which all the refuse of a ueighbourhood is thrown; or, if there be drains, tliey are uncovered, and their contents stagnate, from want of sufficient stream to carry them away. Such a state of things renders those exposed to the effluvia liable to dysentery, diarrhoia, and other bowel complaints ; it produces fever, or at any rate it aggravates this wl)en present; and, by depressing the general health, it renders all complaints more severe and fatal. In districts in which drainage is very imperfect, fever is seldom or never absent, and at particular seasons it rages like a pestilence. These matters have lately occupied much of public attention, and will doubtless soon be remedied the knowledge of them, however, and the necessity of reform, cannot be too widely ditfused. 7232. The exhalatiuns from decomposing vegetable subsUinces are evidenced in the effluvia from marshes ; they produce agues and remittent fever; it is necessary for the decompo- sition of plants that there should be a certain degree of moisture, heat, and, of course, atmospheric air; if there be too much moisture, decomposition cannot occur; and very wet places are not so liable to ague as places sometimes wet and sometimes dry •, for example, a place in which ague prevails will become free from tliis when a marsh is con- verted into a lake ; again, a certain degree of moisture is necessary to produce the malaria ; and if this be lessened by draining the marsh, agues cease, as in the former case. 7233. The effluvia from plants is most abundant in spring and autumn, and for this reason :—towards the end of summer, plants lose their foliage and their flowers, and scatter their seeds ; an immense quantity of dead vegetable matter is thus distributed on the ground; and if the requisite degree of moisture be present, the heats of autumn soon cause deeaj', and extricate the peculiar substances which produce ague when distributed through the air. Marshes, again, towards the end of summer have lost much water by evaporation, and the water-plants which grow in most marshes in prodigious quantity are in a position the most favourable for decomposition. The extrication goes on all the autumn, but is arrested by the frosts of winter, which congeal the water, and render decay impossible; but in the spring, when the sun again acquires power, the remnants of the vegetable matter which have escaped decomposition the previous autumn, and which have lain dormant all the winter, are speedily acted upon, and a great quantity of miasma is evolved. When marshes existed over large districts, all complaints were aggravated at these times ; and even now it is not uncommon in country places to hear poor people anticipating an increase of their complaints " at the spring or fall of the leaf." 7234. The "malaria" is rather peculiar in its transmission ; sometimes it is conveyed great distances, at other times it infects only a limited district. In all marshy countries, as a general rule, it is more liable to attack those who are nearest to the marsh; some- times, however, it will pass over a particular village, and this may sometimes be traced to the presence of woods and foliage between the marsh and village, for it is singular that thick foliage seems occasionally sufficient to arrest its course. Malaria is more liable to attack new comers, and those unused to it, than inhabitants of fenny countries ; it will sometimes not excite ague till the strength of the individual has been accidentally lowered by some cause or other; it seems more powerful in the evening than in the middle of the day ; it will attack those sleeping on the ground floor, and pass over those who are at the top of the house; sleeping on the ground in the open air is almost sure to give an attack. 7235. Touching the means of preventing the action of malaria, some have fancied that smoking has much power as a securitive ; and in fenny countries some people always take spirits before going into the air in the evening; but it is doubtful if these do any good ; the best thing is to take two or three grains of sulphate of quinine every four or six hours, directly any symptoms of an attack are perceived. Sect. VII. TEMPKRATURE. 7236 Tlie human frame is capable of a considerable power of accommodation, and can sustain without inconvenience the extremes of temperature: as a means of preserving health, however, a temperature moderate, and not suddenly changeable, is «ie best; hut on this subject we refer the reader to what we have said on " Warming, Book II., and " Ventilation," Book III. Sect. VIII. EXERCISE. 7237. Exercise is absolutely necessary to preserve the health; most people will admit this statement, but few know exactly what proper exercise is: by P'-opf "e^-f';^^ meant the use of all the muscles in the body, not m an immoderate degree, but enough o keep them in full play, and render the discharge of their office easy and pleasant to the