742 Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. good bread, without an addition of wheat flour: and yet the people -who live upon it are as strong and healthy as any; and horses and other domestic animals feed well upon it. The American and West Indian labourers think no bread so strengthening as that which is made of Indian corn ; and the athletic peasantry of the Tyrol sufficiently demonstrate its wholesomeness. 4222. The American are the largest varieties; one is generally four or five feet high, but sometimes acquires the height of seven or ten feet in favourable situations, and has been seen even fourteen feet high. Its spike or ear, called the cob, {Jig. 614.) containing the seeds, is eight or ten inches in length, and five or six in cir- cumference. A second smaller variety is cultivated in Spain, Portugal, and Lombardy, and partially in France, forming a principal food on all the shores of the Mediterranean. These two varieties will not come to maturity in England ; but a third sort, still smaller, will ripen here in ordinary seasons, and, it is supposed, might be cultivated, its growth being so rapid that it escapes the frost of spring and autumn. This last is partially used in America and Germany for making malt and feeding animus. 4223. Cobbett spoke highly in its praise, but he was probably too enthu- siastic ; and upon the whole, our summers are scarcely warm enough for its successful cultivation. In America, the tender young ears in their milky state are roasted and eaten with butter and salt as a delicacy, or boiled with meat. When green, they are pickled as cucumbers ; dried, they keep all the year. When the grains are ripe, the skin is taken off, and the farinaceous part is boiled whole, or ground into meal, and made into puddings or cakes. 4224. The meal or flour is inferior to that of wheat; but mixed with it Fie. 614. makes good bread ; it is seldom used alone. In Brabant it forms the ordi- nary food of the peasants, fried with fat bacon. The tops, when dried, serve as fodder for horses, cattle, and sheep ; and the stalks afibrd a sweet juice from which the Indians of America make a variety of fermented liquors. The cob, after the seeds are taken off, is used as fuel, makes excellent corks, and forms, when bruised, a useful kind of chaff for stuflSng mattresses or other purposes. Maize is far more pi^ductive than any other grain. SuBSECT. 7. — Millet. 4225. Millet (Panicum Sorghum, Lin.) is the smallest seeded of the com plants, being a true grass, but the number of the seeds in each ear makes up for their size. It grows in sandy soils that will not do for the cultivation of many other kinds of grain, and forms the chief sustenance in the arid districts of Arabia, Syria, Nubia, and parts of India. There are several kinds of millet. 1. Great Indian millet, or Italian millet {Sitaria Italica). This is cultivated in Egypt and Nubia, where it is called dhourra, and is used as human food, as well as for the fer- mentation of beer. It wiU grow on poor soils, and is extremely productive. It has been introduced into Italy, where they make a coarse bread from it, and it is also em- ployed in pastry and puddings : they also use it for feeding horses and domestic fowls. It is the largest variety, growing to the height of six feet; but it requires a warm climate, and wiU not ripen in this country. A yellow variety, called golden coloured millet (Sor^/ium saccharatimi), is sold in the grocers' shops for making puddings, and is very delicate and wholesome. 2. German millet {Sitaria Gemianica, Lin.) is cultivated for bread in some of the northern countries of Europe. 3. Common millet (^Panicum miliaccum, Lin.) is the variety usually cultivated in England. There are two kinds, the brown and the yellow. The first is sometimes used as a sub- stitute for sago. 4. Polish millet {Panicum sanguinalis, Lin.) grows abundantly m Poland, and is a native of England, but is not common. When it is cultivated, it is employed as a substitute for rice and sago, or for puddings. SuBSECT. 8. —Buck-wheat {Polygonum Fagopyrum, Lin.). 4226. This plant does not properly belong to the class of the cerealia, notwithstanding its name which, though English, is taken from the German beechwaizcn, beech wheat, from the'resemblance which the seeds bear to beech-mast. Its leaves nearly resemble those of the ivy ; its flowers are purplish, and the seeds are triangular and of a brownish black colour. It is not cultivated in England as human food, but it is raised partially in Norfolk, and cut, when green, as fodder for cattle. Nevertheless it is employed as a valu- able bread corn on the Continent, and in some other parts of the world. It contains some gluten and starch, though much less than wheat, and consequently it is not so nutritive ; but it has more sugar than even barley, and the cakes made from it are sweet and agree- able.