1151 Chap. II. MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Kicking is another fault for -which there is rarely any cure, particularly if not taken in time : it is very bad in the stable, but kicking in harness is much worse. Irritability in cleaning is most generally the consequence of a tender skin and bad management. Viciuus- iiess to shoe is likewise usually owing to want of skill in managing, but should be corrected, since owing to it lameness is often occasioned, and not by any fault of the smith. Crib- biting is a troublesome fault and difficult to prevent: the horse will not only bite and destroy his wooden manger, but if it is lined with iron he will bite it and injure his teeth, as well as disperse and lose his corn. The best remedy appears to be muzzle sufficient to enable him to pick up his food, but not to allow him to lay hold of the manger. Some horses will not readily lie down at night, and stand till their legs swell: sometimes a fresh well-made bed and casting him loose will tempt him. Pawing is a bad habit which some horses have in the stable, by which they desti'oy their litter and also the floor: shackles are the best remedy. Boiling in the stable is another bad habit, which must be prevented by not allowing him sufficient length of collar-rein. Shying is a vice which may be cured by a good horseman, except it be owing to a defect of sight. Slipping the collar in the night is a trick that some horses are very clever at; by this they sometimes get at food and gorge themselves, or do some mischief. Tripping is a dan- gerous fault, sometimes owing to lameness; a known stumbler is never safe to ride. Sect. XI. CRITERIA OF THE QUALITIES OF HORSES. * 6829. The criteria of the qualities of horses are derived from inspection and trial. To judges their outward appearance affords a pretty just indication of their powers, and a moderate trial usually enables the same judgment to decide on the disposition to exercise such powers. The qualities indicated by colour have been already noticed. The strength may be judged of by the general form. The spirit, vigour, or mettle, as it is termed, are best ascertained by trial. A horse of vigour and true courage is highly valued, and shows his mettle only when it is required of him. He walks securely and deliberately, and moves with readiness as well alone as in company. Without requiring the whip, he will go from the walk to the gallop, and as easily from the gallop to the walk again, champing the bit and trotting glibly. He is attentive and cheerful, loves to be caressed even when on his journey. He is easily managed, good-tempered, and quiet under difficulties. A hot fiery horse is as objectionable as one of true courage is desirable : he is known by his disinclination to stand stUl, and by his mettle being raised by the slightest exercise, especially when in company. Such horses are not safe ; they are impetuous, difficult to manage, and are easily frightened. 6830. A hackney should be well-formed behind, to give him strength ; and to propel him forward, it is even of more consequence that he be well-formed before. In this kind of horse the hind parts are in some measure subordinate to the fore, as safety, or freedom from stumbling, is preferable to speed. The head in the hackney should be small, and well-placed on a neck of due length and substance to make an " appui" for the bridle, and that proper resistance to the hand so pleasant to the feel, and so necessary for ease and safety. The shoulders should be oblique, and well furnished with muscle, but not heavy ; and the withers in particular should be high for the comfort of the rider. The elbows should be turned rather out than in ; and the legs should stand out straight, and by no means fall under the horse, or it betokens a stumbler. The pasterns should be neither too oblique, which bespeaks weakness, nor too straight, which wears the horse out, and is unpleasant to the rider. The carcase should be round, or the horse will be weak ; the loms straight, wide, and ribbed home ; the thighs of good substance; and although the being cat-hammed, or having the hocks turned mwards, is defective in beauty, it often bespeaks a good trotter. Many, who consider themselves as judges, are in error respecting the action of the road horse. They say " Let him lift his legs well, and he will never come down." But, in proportion as he lifts his legs well will be the force with which he puts them down again, the jar and concussion to the rider, and the batterinc' and wear and tear of his feet. A horse with great "knee action " will not always be speedy; he will indeed seldom be pleasant to ride, and not safer than others. It is a rule, confirmed by experience, that the safctv of a horse depends more on the manner in which hp puts his feet down, than on that in which he lifts them up ; more on the foot being placed at once flat on the ground, or perhaps the heel coming first in contict with It, th.in on the highest and most splendid .iction. When the toe first touches the ground it mav ha easily supposed that the horse will occasionally topple over. An unexpected obstacle will throw the centra of gravity forward, .and down he will come. If the toe dig into the ground before the foot is firmlv nl irp.l very little will occasion a trip .and a fall. To detect a stumbler, look at the shoes to discover where is the wear. If, after the shoes have suffered a week's or a fortnight's riding without being unusually worn it tho toe, and it is perceived th.at the horse puts his feet flat on the ground, tho probability is tliat he is' ^'ife although his .action m,ay not be the loftiest. A hackney for a gentleman should be in fine condition and 1 co.it should be kept up fine by good grooming, food, and exercise!, and not by heat, clothes, and cordials. 68.31. Quick draught horses, or those for the coach, chariot, post-chaise, and other travelling carriages, must have forms suited to the several purposes for which they are intended, as requiring either strength or speed in the greatest proportion. To make