PRESERVATION OF HEALTir. Hook XXVI. 1230 taken, consisting of a mixture of blue pill (about two grains) and James's powder (about three grains). If the cold be very severe, if there be considerable fever present, indicated by a hot skin, quick pulse, furred tongue, and thirst, the patient should retire to bed; a brisk aperient should be taken, and at night the warm foot-bath used, and the pill above-men- tioned. After two or three days the violence of the cold subsides, and the cough left is often troublesome : the following draught is useful : — Take of wine of ipecacuanha, 10 or 15 drops; camphorated tincture of opium, 20 drops ; camphor mixture, 3 table-spoonfuls. Draught to be taken night and morning. Or this draught is often efficacious, viz.: Take of tincture of balsam of tolu, 20 drops ; compound powder of ipecacuanha, 5 grains ; mucilage of acacia as much as may be sufficient; water, 2 table-spoonfuls. Draught to be taken every night for 3 nighH running. For measuring the drops it is advisable to use a little graduated glass called a minim measure, and which can be bought at any druggist's shop. Sometimes a cold is arrested by a plan altogether the reverse of this, viz. eating as usual, and taking a glass or two of wine more than ordinary; and this plan is chiefly successful when there is but little feverishness attending the cold. Another plan, by which a cold can sometimes be at once arrested, is taking a dose of tincture of opium (about 20 minims of the tincture) at bed-time, and following it up next morning with an aperient mixture, such as the fol- lowing : — Take of sulphate of magnesia (epsom salts) from 2 to 4 drachms; infusion of senna, 3 table-spoonfuls; tinc- ture of senna, 1 drachm (60 minims). Draught to be taken the first tiling in the morning. However, if this plan do not stop the cold it will increase; and we do not recommend it unless there be some particular necessity for speedily getting rid of the cold. Another plan has been much recommended by Dr. C. J. B. Williams, and which seems really to be beneficial, particularly in cases where colds are very severe, lasting for 2 or 3 weeks ; we allude to the total abstinence from fluids of all kinds for 48 or CO hours; the lips may be wetted, but no fluid should be swallowed. In 46 or 43 hours the severe symptoms disappear, the eyes no longer smart, the discharges from the nose cease, and the cougli disappears ; one great advantage of the plan is, that it permits the individual to pursue his ordinary avocations : it does not confine him to the house. But this plan greatly augments fever when it is present. SuBSECT. 2. — Influenza. 7245. This in many respects resembles a severe cold, but with more fever, with greater headache and loss of appetite ; the cough is also often very severe, and there is a remark- able loss of strength ; the general indisposition is very distressing ; there is great thirst, white tongue, with heat of skin and quickened pulse. 7246. Treatment. — This is a much more serious complaint than cold, and almost always demands medical aid; the warm bath should be used, the patient should go to bed, and take the pill formerly mentioned (viz. blue pill and James's powder); and next morning an aperient: if senna be very disagreeable, Epsom salts may be taken in an effervescing draught. SuBSECT. 3. — Sort Throat. 7247. This often accompanies a cold. In a severe form it requires medical attendance ; when not so severe, however, it is often relieved by simple gargles, such as solution of gum, with barley water, and by the inhalation of warm watery vapour. Individuals are sometimes annoyed with constant recurrences of sore throat. When examined, the throat is seen swollen, but not very red ; in fact, it is what is commonly called relaxed sore throat; now it is in these cases that gargles of capsicum, and of port wine are useful, but it should be remembered that these gargles, if there be much inflammation, are likely to do more harm than good; and instead of them, we beg to re- commend a gargle of alum, directly the soreness and feeling of relaxation begin to appear. This gargle must be saturated with alum, and is best made in the following manner : —a piece of alum is pounded finely in a mortar, and then boiling water poured upon this, and rubbed with the alum, or the ahun when powdered may be put out of the mortar mto a glass, and boiling water poured upon it, and the two stirred together with a spoon ; then the water must be poured off and left to cool; if any alum is deposited as it cools, it proves that the solution is saturated ; the gargle thus prepared should be used every hour or two, for several successive times; after the few first tmies the pam and difficulty of swallowing subside, and gradually altogether disappear. It is a good plan, when sore throat is a common occurrence, to gargle every mornmg, or every other morning, with this solution. Solution of salt and water is also a good eargle in such a case.