BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 606 France in the greatest abundance, but likewise in the greatest vai-iety, from the light Champagne and Burgundy to the luscious sweet winds of the south, and the vins ordinaires . of the several districts. 3425. But notwithstanding the celebrity of French wines, which are transported to every part of the world, and the acknowledged skill of the manufacturers, it must not be supposed that they are to be indiscriminately approved of. A large proportion of French wines is of a very inferior character, and it is only from the first establishments that the finest wines are to be procured. Although in France there are only a few departments in which the vine is not culti- vated, yet certain wine districts have acquired greater celebrity than others, either on account of the superiority of their produce, or from their being more conveniently situ- ated for exportation. Those departments which compose the ancient provinces of Champagne, Burgundy, and the Bordelais, at present furnish the greatest abundance of the best French wines. Some of the sweet wines of the southern departments are excellent; but the wines of the northern parts of the kingdom, as those of the Moselle, are, in general, very indifferent. 3426. It is generally supposed in England that French wines are too cold for the con- stitution, and particularly for those who have been accustomed to port and sherry. There is probably some truth in the observation, when the ordinary French wines are taken into the account; but the objection will not apply to the stronger wines of that country, even when they are quite free from brandy. It is observed by Dr. Henderson that France furnishes some of the best wines in each class; and imquestionably excels every other region of the globe in the manufacture of red wines in particular. 3427. During the period when England had possession of several provinces of France, French wines were imported into this country in great abundance from Gascony, Guienne, Touraine, Anjou, and Poitou; and in the beginning of the reign of Henry II. a consider- able trade in wine with Bordeaux commenced; but the Gascon wines exceeded in quantity all the others. It would appear, from the large quantities imported, and the low price at which they were obliged, by royal enactments, to be sold, that foreign wines must have been pretty generally drunk in England at that time among the wealthy classes. The province of Guienne remained in our possession near three hundred years. Richard II. was born in Bordeaux, the capital, while it belonged to England; and the province was given up only in the reign of Henry VI. So cheap were French wines in England in the reign of Henry VIII., that those of Gascony and Guienne were forbidden to be sold at above eightpence the gallon. The wine trade with France was in the most flourishing condition,under Edward III., when, as Froissart relates, upon one occasion, a fleet of above two hundred merchantmen came for wines from England to Bordeaux, then the seat of the Black Prince's government. In the same age the wines of the Rhine and Moselle appear to have been largely imported. It was upon Gascony that the English chiefly depended for their favourite supplies of clarets and other light wines, which seem to have resembled generally the modem growths of the same country. 3428. Champagne wines. — This, the most celebrated of French wines, is the produce chiefly of the province of that name, and is generally understood in England to be a brisk, efiervescing, or sparkling white wine, of a very fine flavour ; but this is only one of the varieties of this class. There is both red and white Champagne, and each of these may be either still or brisk. There are the sparkling wines (mousseux), and the stiU wines (non-mousseux). The brisk are in general the most highly esteemed, or at least are the most popular in this country, on account of their delicate flavour, and the agreeable pun- r gency which they derive from the carbonic acid they contain, and to which they owe their briskness. There is a great difference in the quality of these wines, according to the particular t vineyards at which they have been made. The finest wines are produced in the sloping ;j grounds on the north bank of the river Marne, where the soil is extremely calcareous ; and they are mostly white wines. _ ' 3429. The very finest of the sparkling Champagne is that of Ai/, five miles south of I Rheims ; its delicious aroma has been compared to that of the pine-apple. This place has i- long been highly distinguished, and our ancestors took no small pains to secure to them- selves the choicest productions of the vineyard; for it is said that Francis I. of France, t Pope Leo X., Charles V. of Spain, and Henry VIII. of England, had, each of them, a »^ vineyard at Ay, their own property, and on each vineyard a small house occupied by a i superintendant. Si7/en/is a white Champagne, and the best of the still kind ; it has more t body and spirit than the sparkling varieties, and is very highly esteemed. This wine 4 derives its name from tlie Marquis of Sillery, the original proprietor of the soil, and is |^ produced from vineyards not far from Rheims; it is perhaps the wholcsomest of all the J, wines of Champagne, the fermentation being more perfect. It will keep for years, ^.