Book XXVI. PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1220 excited by wine ; before using it, the heat of over exercise, or much excitement of mind, should be suffered to pass off Water by itself, warm or cold, is but imperfectly cleans^ ing, as the perspiration cannot be readily dissolved and carried oft by water alone ; hence the advantage of employing soap of some kind when mere cleansing is required. SunsECT. 5. — Douche Baths. 7194. The douche bath is a powerful agent, and consists of a stream of water, cold or warm, directed with considerable force from a tube upon some particular part of the body, and varies in its power, according to the diameter of the stream, the temperature of the water and the force with which it strikes the body. The cold douche is employed in inflamma- tory diseases, such as that of the brain, and in mania. The water is sometimes made to fall through a pipe from a reservoir placed at some height; and pouring water from a large tea-kettle, or other vessel, may be used as an inferior kind of it. The douche is much employed in the Oriental vapour and Russian baths in conjunction with vapour. There are natural douching baths of warm water in many parts of the world, as at Aix les Bains in Switzerland, which are well described by Mr. I5akewell in his " Travels in the Taren- taise." The water at a temperature of 110°, but somewhat reduced before it reaches the patient, descends upon the patient in columns as large as the arm, from a height of eight to ten feet. Tliis is described as an operation unpleasant and exhausting, but it produces a profuse perspiration on the patient's being put into a bed. It is found to be relaxing and beneficial in chronic rheumatism, sprains, and stiifness of the joints. It is supposed that much of the advantage derived from the douche depends upon the percussion upon the part affected by the descent of the stream of water, since the height of the fall is important. Wlien a sufficient height cannot be obtained, it is stated that the effect may in some degree be imitated by striking the part of the body to be douched with a hammer made of caoutchouc while the stream of water is acting upon it; but it is evi- dent that this process can be practised only under the immediate direction of the medical attendant. SuBSECT. 6. — Shower Bath. 7195. The most convenient form of cold bathing is the shower-bath, already much in use. By this the water may be easily adjusted to the necessities of the bather as to its temperature and quantity, and whether it be fr§sh or salt. The bath takes up little room, and it may be placed in the bed-room or dressing-room. The effects of the sho^ver-batll are, upon the whole, nearly similar to those of the plunge bath, but there is some difference between them. The shock from the shower- bath is, in general, felt to be greater than that from simple immersion, particularly if the quantity of water be great, its temperature low, and the fall considerable. It sometimes happens, too, that a patient can bear one better than the other. Its effects are more speedy, and extend more to the internal organs than those of the common bath ; conse- quently when recourse is had to it, the patient should withdraw immediately after the shock ; the glow felt is almost immediate when it is beneficial: if its use is prolonged, it quickly lowers, and at last destroys, the sensibility, being then highly injurious. It should seldom be resorted to without medical advice, and it may be used either cold or tepid. When cold water is used, the effect as a tonic is very advantageous, provided the habit is sufficiently vigorous to produce the proper reaction and glow on the surface immediately after the shower ; but for delicate persons, the tepid shower-bath is preferable. Salt added to the water is an improvement. In certain affections of the head, the cold shower- bath is found useful; if required, the feet may be immersed in warm water, while cold is applied to the head and body. Some recommend promoting the reaction by the friction of horse-hair or coarse flannel gloves. The best time for using the shower-bath for hygeian purposes is immediately after rising in the morning; but in weakened habits, an hour after breakfast is better. 7190. Fi;/. 912. represents the form of shower-bath as it is usually sold by ironmongers. The water is forced up into a cistern, a, with a perforated bottom, by a syringe, b, and the bather, by pulling a string, opens a valve, which causes the water to descend sud- denly in a shower on his head and body through the perforated bottom. A receptacle at the lower part receives the water, iind curtains confine it from splashing about. To prevent the dampness in the room occasioned by wetting the curtains, they may easily be made to take off, and may be dried elsewhere. The whole is made of tin-plate painted, one of the upright supports being lioUow, to allow the ascent of the water. The usual price is from 3/. to 5/. 7197. An apparatus for this purpose, fig. 913., much cheaper, and answering nearly as •well, has lately appeared in the shops, a li, is the cistern to hold water, and it is suspended from the ceiling by a line, c, and balanced by a weight, d. The valve in the interior is on