020 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL 3493. One of the great evils in many of the foreign wines imported into England is tlie large addition made to them of brandy, which all physicians who have written on this suh- jcct consider to be injurious to health. It was at one time supposed that alcohol did not exist ready formed in pure wine, but only the elements of alcohol; and it was imagined that these combined and produced the alcohol during the process of the distillation. This opinion was rendered probable by some curious facts. It is found that the chemist can obtain, by distilling Madeira, Port, or Sherry, nearly one-fifth their bulk of alcohol ; so that a person who drinks a bottle of either of them wUl swallow nearly a quarter of a pint of pure spirit as strong as brandy ; yet every one knows that the latter would produce a more intoxicating effect than a bottle of wine. It was agreed, therefore, that, according to chemical language, alcohol was the product, and not the educt, of the distillation of wine ; that is, that it had been produced, or actually formed, by the process of distillation which had been employed in analysing the wine, and had not been merely extracted ready formed from the wine in which it existed. This opinion had originated with Rouelle, a French chemist, and had been supported in this country by Dr. MaccuUoch and others. It was, therefore, very important to determine wliat was the fact; for if this opinion is well founded, it would .nccount for the difference of effect obviously produced by taking a bottle of wine, or a quarter of a pint of brandy ; and it would follow, thai if no alcohol ready formed really existed in wine, this beverage did not, and could not, produce the same injurious consequences on the stomach as spirits and water. Careful ex- periments upon wine were, therefore, instituted a few years back to determine this interesting question ; but, unfortunately for the theory, the result of these was unfavourable to it. Guy Lussac separated the alcohol from wine at a temperature of 66°, which was considered as too low a heat to effect that combination of prin- ciples that had been supposed to give rise to the alcohol; and since that time, the same thing has been done even at 56°, and in a vacuum. It has been therefore concluded, that wine does contain alcohol already formed in it; and this conclusion has been confirmed, and the question nearly set at rest, by experiments made by Professor Brande, who, without any additional temperature, anti by other chemical methods which, it is thought, cannot possibly cause the formation of alcohol, has separated this liquid from a great variety of sorts of wine. Notwithstanding this decision, however, the fact of the difference in the effect on the constitution which we have mentioned, between a quantity of ptire brandy or brandy diluted with water, and an equal quantity in wine, remains unaccounted for. There must, therefore, exist some cause that modifies the intoxicating power of alcohol in wine, so as to occasion it to produce less effect than when taken itself, or with water only. Physiologists are .ilready well acquainted with the extraordinary effects of chemical combination, and even of mixture, in modifying the activity of substances upon the living system : that the alcohol in wine is combined in some though unknown manner, is rendered probable from the fact, that if brandy be added to wine during its fermentation, it is not so easily separable as if it be added when the fermentation is completed, entering into union with some of the principles of the wine. Thus brandy added to wines after they are brought to England is much more easily perceived by the palate, and is more injurious to the stomach, than when it has been added during the fabrication. Some imagine that the acids contained in wine modify the effect of the alcohol. In the practice of Oporto, the complete fermentation of the must takes place in the vat; the wine is then introduced into large tuns capable of holding twenty-five pipes each ; and at this stage the brandy is added, according to the discretion of the maker. In Madeira, the second or insensible fermentation is carried on in pipes, and the wine is racked from them at the end of three or four months, at which time a portion of the brandy is added ; the remainder is reserved to be mixed at the lime of exportation. The process followed in making sherry is rather more complicated, and appears to afford some useful hints relative to the disposal of the brandy which fashion has introduced into the composition of this, as of the former wines. The grape."! are first slightly dried, and sprinkled with quicklime ; they are then wetted with brandy on being introduced into the press, a further portion being added to the must before the fermentation commences. By this pro- cedure the brandy is better enabled to combine with the wine, so as to form a fluid more perfect than when it is merely, as in the former cases, mixed with the wine after that is completed. The subsequent process consists in repeated racking, at intervals of a month or two, till March, brandy being added at each of these operations. 3414. Still, in whateverway the brandy is added, the result is injurious to the human constitution ; and such brandied wines are relished only by those whose palates are accustomed to them. The diseases which destroy spirit drinkers, chiefly liver complaints, are frequent among those who are in the habit of using constantly the strong-brandied wines ; and sncli ill health is to be attributed to the alcohol with which the wuie is adulterated rather than to the wine itself, such complaints being rare in those countries where pure unadulterated wine alone is drunk. These observations apply, as we shall afterwards show, equally to the .iddition of brandy to our domestic wines, which arc supposed, erroneously, to require this addition, but by which they are ren- dered extremely unwholesome. SiTBSECT. 10.—Table of the Quantity of Alcohol in several hinds of Wine and other Liquors analysed by Brande, Prout, §-c. Port Colares port Madeira . Red Madeira Cape Madeira Sherry Teneriffe . I,achryma Christl White Constantia Red Constantia . Calrabella VIdonia . Roussillnn Shiraj ItuceMaii . I,ish(m Malaga White Hermitage Alcohol in 100 parts by Measure. . from 2,5 S.3 to 19-00 — 19-7.^ _ 2I-42 to 19-24 — 22-30 10 18-40 — 22-94 to 18-11 _ 2.-) 80 to 18-25 — 19-79 _ 19-70 — 19-75 — 18-92 _ 11-20 to 18-10 — 19-25 _ 19-00 to 17-26 — • 19-80 — 18-49 _ 18-94 _ 18-94 to 17-20 — 17-43 Cl.-iret Zante Marsala . Burgundy. Alcatico . Malmsey, Madeira Syracuse . Lunel Nice Hock Sauternc . Constantia Tent Barsac . . . Vin de Grave Champagne (still) Champagne (sparkling) Champagne (red) Alcohol in 100 parts by Measure. . from 17-11 to 1291 _ 17-05 — 17-26 _ 16-60 to 11-95 — 16 20 — 16-40 — 1.5-28 _ 15-52 — 14-6.3 — 14-37 to R-88 — 14.22 — 14.50 _ 13-20 _ .13.86 _ 13.94 to 12-80 — 13-80 — 12-80 _ 12-56 to 11.30