1088 Book XXII. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. Fig. 819. occasionally as the iron cools. To keep this heater in its place, an iron slider is made to shut down in front. Acci- dents of burning have sometimes happened by lifting these irons negligently, without seeing that the slider was down, so as to allow the heater to fall out. 6.506. The proper degree of heat in the smootldng iron is very necessary to attend to, and which can only be learned by practice. Before using it, it is proper to try its effect upon a piece of blanket kept on the table for that purpose ; if the iron be too hot, it will scorch the linen, and if not hot enough, it will not properly perform its office. In the first case, it may be proper, not to lose time, to iron some coarse thing that a very hot iron will not injure. The best manner of heating the irons will be described under " Construction of the Laundry." 6507. The use of the iron in the various articles of wearing apparel can be learned only by practice under a skilful instructor; no verbal directions can be sufficient. A few hints, however, may be given. Things that require to be very flat, as shirt collars, are best to be covered by a towel in the first ironing, and then gone over on both sides with the box-iron. Laces and worked muslins require a very soft and good ironing blanket, and they are to be dried by rolling them up, and to be unrolled as they are ironed. When silks are ironed, they should be covered over with paper to prevent the iron from touching the silk itself, which produces a disagreeable glossiness. Great care must be taken not to scorch any thing, for this is in fact reducing a portion of the surface to char- coal ; and though receipts are given for restoring the colour, the^e are nearly, if not quite, useless. 6508. The Italian iron (fig.820.), afifbrds a very neat and expeditious way of ironing certain articles, as frills, that require to be puffed. It is a hollow tube, and is heated by a cylindrical piece of iron made red hot and inserted in it. The articles to be ironed are drawn over the ii'on, instead of passing the iron over them. 6509. Plaiting is used in frills, breasts of shirts, and similar parts of dress, and is either smaZ/plaiting (fg. 821.), or box plaiting (^jr. 822). The plaits are first folded with the fingers, and then ironed down flat with the box heater, or a heavy common iron. If any part of the articles to be ironed have become too dry, they must be re-damped ; and should the iron stick to the linen, it should be well rubbed with a coarse cloth; and should that not be effectual, it must be rubbed upon a board on which a little brickdust or powder of cuttle-fish bone has been scattered, wiping the iron afterwards. 6510. Crimping machines {fg. 823.) are for performing a kind of plaiting or fluting on Fig. 820. Fig. 821. Fig. 823. frills, with much greater regularity and expedition than could be practised by hand. This is done by grooved rollers, heated like the Italian iron ; the process is performed merely by putting the articles between the rollers, and turning the handle. 6511. Gauffering machines difi'er from those used for crimping only by having the grooves much larger, and less regular. nr i 6512. Tlie folloiving method of gauffering by means of straws is given m the " Work- woman's Guide :" Procure a board about a yard long and six nails broad ; cover it with flannel, and fasten two tapes lengthwise, leaving about a quarter of a yard between them ; then pin the net to the flannel at one end, and place a straw over the tapes (between which the net is lying), and under the net; the next straw is laid under the tapes and over the net, and so on alternately, taking care that the upper straws are put close to each other upon the under ones, forming two layers of straws, men all the net is folded, dip a coarse cloth in water, and wring it as dry as you can; lay this upon the net, and iron it dry, pressing on the board as much as you can, without splitting the straws; remove the cloth, and place the board before the fire for "half an hour, when you may