Book XVII. FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. 986 briefly the following: 1. It may be twisted in the single thread of raw silk ; it is then called singles, and is used for some kinds of weft, as in ribands and common silks. 2. Two or more singles may be twisted together, but not very closely ; this is called tram, which constitutes the usual weft or shoot of the best woven goods, such as gros de Naples, velvets, and flowered silks, &c. 3. Organzine, or hard silk, which is the strongest and most valuable sort, used for the warp of such goods as have tram for the weft. 4. Sewings are compound threads of silk, wound, cleaned, doubled and thrown, with especial refer- ence to their ultimate use as sewing silk. 5797. Organzine is used for the warp of the best quality of silk, and is of the utmost importance to the manufacturer, as none of the principal articles can be fabricated ■without it; it usually contains from two to four threads of raw silk twisted, and so combined as to be of the greatest strength ; for this purpose, each thread of raw silk is twisted sepa- rately by a mill, and then two of these are twisted together, forming a thread Like a rope. The Italians, from whom we formerly imported silk in the state of organzine, kept the art of forming it, called throwing, a profound secret. The throwing of silk was introduced into this country in 1719, by the enterprise and skill of Messrs. Thomas and John Lombe, the latter, who was a good mechanic, having, at the risk of his life, and with wonderful ingenuity, taken a plan secretly of one of these complicated machines in the king of Sardinia's dominion, from which, on his return, he established a similar set of mills in the town of Derby. Lombe lived only a few years after he obtained his patent, being succeeded by his brother William j but the construction of the mills, and the instruction of the various workmen employed, occupied so much time, that the speculation was unprofitable ; on which account, the cousin, afterwards Sir Thomas Lombe, to whom the property descended, in 1718, petitioned Parliament for the renewal of the patent. This was refused, but the government granted him the sum of 14,000?., upon condition that he should deposit a complete set of all his machinery in the Tower of London for the inspection of the public. 5798. The mills for throwing silk dire oiten of most elaborate construction. Lately they have been re-modelled by various ingenious mechanicians upon the cotton throstle plan, driven by steam-engines; and these are incomparably superior to what were formerly used in this country, and still are upon the Continent. The machines which they employ abroad for this purpose are small, and are turned by hand, containing about a dozen spindles each. In consequence of these improvements here, little thrown silk is now imported, that produced at home, chiefly at Derby, being sufficient. 5799. Marabout is a peculiar kind of thrown silk, often made of three threads of raw silk. Being white as it comes from the worm, it takes the purest and most delicate shades of colour at once, without the discharge of its gum. 5800. Floss silk is that portion of waste silk which is drawn from the cocoons that are reserved for breeding, and from which the moths eat their way out by holes, which cutting the silk into pieces, renders it impracticable to wind it, together with such cocoons as will not wind off. This silk, when carefully spun by a spinning-wheel in the manner of flax, is termed spun silk, the thread of which is little inferior for some purposes to the regular silk which is wound off from the cocoons. It is often made into stockings, which are very durable ; also into shawls, handkerchiefs, and other articles. Sect. IV. BLEACHING AND WEAVING SILK, AND PREPARING IT FOR THE DTER. 5801. Raw silk is bleached white by first immersing it in a solution of good soap in river water. After boiling for two or three hours, the silk is taken out, beaten, and then rinsed in cold water. It is then wrung, dipped in soap and water, and boiled again; after which it is suspended in a kind of stove constructed for the purpose, containing burning sulphur ; the fumes from this give the last degree of whiteness to the silk. Were it not for the dearness of spirits of wine, silk might be bleached by it, according to M. Baume, and thus made to rival the finest specimens from Nankin. xr ..v 5802. Silk is woven chiefly by the hand-loom, as power-looms do not offer the same advantages in the weaving of this material as they do of cotton ; from the delicacy of its texture, it is continually giving way. and requiring repair m some part or other; a con- siderable portion of time is also employed in removing all roughness of the warp, during which the actual weaving must be suspended. The saving of time which a power-loom would give would therefore be small, and ceases to be an object of ^eat importance. Figured silks are now woven by the admirable Jacquard loom ; and patterns which formerly required the greatest skill, and the most painful labour, are produced by this machine by weaver! of ordinary skill, and with little more labour than that reqmrcd in weavino- plain silks. This loom has been much improved in England. ^BOrMZomotimes embossed, by passing the plain stuff between rollers, the surfaces