706 Book Vlll. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Fig. 582. which sometimes does occur, and which is very dangerous, particularly where there are children. 4045. A tea-kettle, fig. 582. invented hi) Count Eumford, and exhibited at the Royal Institution, has since been lately introduced as a novelty, perhaps without the second inventor knowing that it was not new, although the principle is described in the Count's essays. IS a common tea-kettle be placed upon an open fire, the heat and flame that rises round the sides has little effect, and it is only that which strikes the bot- tom that acts considerably in heating the water. By surroimding the body of the tea-kettle with a cylinder or cone of sheet iron, a h, extending deeper than the bottom of the kettle, and soldered tight round the top, there will, of course, be a cavity between this casing and the kettle. The heat, whether that of a fire or lamp, will not only strike the bottom, but will accumulate to a considerable degree round the sides, and occasion the water to boil much sooner than in the ordinary way. One of the objections to this is the weight of the whole. 4046. Fig. 583. is a tea-heille fitted up on the same principle with a lamp for the table, with a cock like a tea-urn. 4047. The best tea-kettles have handles turned of wood or ivory. One with a metallic handle cannot be touched when filled with boiling water, without using a kettle-holder, made of some non-conducting substance, as cloth of some kind, or by wrapping a piece of paper round it; while a wooden handle, being itself a bad conductor, may be used without inconvenience. Glass, being a very bad conductor, is now sometimes employed for the thick part of the handles of tea-kettles. 4048. It is said that tea-kettles have lately been made, which appear to be all of copper, but which are only iron covered over by a thin coating of copper by means of the new electrotype process. We mention this particulai'ly, because, if such kettles have been manufactured, they may be oflfei'ed for sale, and the copper will of coui'se very soon wear off by cleaning. 4049. Tlie tea-urn is certainly the most elegant mode of supplying water for tea. It is made in the form of a vase, but in a great variety of patterns. Fig. 584. repre- sents one of the usual kind. In the centre there is a ver- tical tube, into which a cylinder of iron heated red-hot is slipped down, and covered by a little lid, and that by the cover of the urn. This keeps the water in the urn at a boiling heat. Some tea-urns have lamps below them, instead of iron heaters, which have the advantage of keeping the water hot any length of time. Fig. mi.