Book XXII. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 1074 BOOK XXIL ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 6420. Under the title of this branch of domestic econoviy, we propose to take an extensive view, not only of the ordinary processes of -what are termed " washing and getting up linen," but likewise of the theoretical principles upon which complete success depends, and likewise to give a short description of the nature and manufacture of the materials employed. In addition, we shall treat of the art of scouring, which, though it does not strictly belong to the ordinary business of the laundry, yet is intimately connected with it, and materially elucidates the modes of managing the restoration to a condition fit for use of the various articles of wearing apparel and furniture ; confining ourselves, how- ever, to such facts as are useful to be known in domestic economy, and omitting those which concern the manufacturer only. 6421. It is unnecessary to remark upon what is so well understood, the importance to health and comfort of cleanliness in dress and furniture; and custom now demands, not only that this shall be effected in the requisite degree, but that it shall be made apparent by the purity of their colour and appearance. We shall begin by explaining in a general way the rationale or theory of ordinary washing, or in other words, the reasons why soap and other detergent substances are generally used. CHAP. I. THEORY OF WASHING. 6422. The primitive mode of performing this operation, before detersive or cleansing substances were known, was, no doubt, washing clothes in simple water, and this method is still practised in many countries. The Hindoos carry their clothes to the Ganges, where they undergo the necessary purification in water alone. But this requires much labour ; and to remove with greater facility the discoloration of linen occasioned by being worn, which is partly of an oily nature, and therefore very difficult to destroy by water only, certain substances, called detersive, have been introduced which assist in the process. Of these the principal one is soap ; and it is requisite that we shall first take some notice of this material, and show in what manner it is so efficient. 6423. It is well known that oil or grease is not soluble in, and will not unite rvith, water; a greasy spot cannot be washed out completely by water only, unless such a degree of rub- bing be employed as will injure the cloth in some degree. But if oil be united to an alkaline substance, the mixture of the two is soluble in water; hence, if the greasy spot be touched with an alkali, as potash or soda, the latter will unite with the grease or oil, which being then soluble in water, rubbing in that fluid, or washing, will cause it to dis- appear. If, then, soiled or greasy linen be washed in water containing potash or soda, the labour of cleansing is much less than with water alone, and the fabric, not being necessarily subjected to so much rubbing, suffers less wear. 6424. All the ashes of burnt vegetables contain more or less of the alkali called potash; hence wood ashes was one of the most aucient detersive substances, and is still occasion- ally employed for that purpose. But alkalies, when used alone, have this inconvenience, that although they are extremely effective, yet if employed in too great a quantity, they are capable of corroding the clothes to be cleansed, and likewise of acting in the same manner on the hands. The difficulty of regulating properly their strength has led to the invention of soap, which consists of alkali already imited to a certain proportion of oil or fat of some kind, by which its power of corrosion is so much diminished as not to destroy the texture of the fabric; and yet the alkali in the soap is capable of taking up a little more oil or grease, such as may be found in soiled linen ; and that is likewise converted into soap. Now, all soap being soluble in water, the whole of the impurities may be thus re- moved by rubbing the linen between the hands "in that fluid. In fact, then, in employ- ing soap for washing, we make more soap ; though the newly-foi-med material is in very minute quantity, and does not become solid. Soap is not necessarily solid ; if oil and any solution of alkali in water be mixed in a small phial and shaken together, liquid soap will be the result. Soap is made solid by certain processes of the manufacture, on account of the greater convenience in using it, than if it were in the liquid state. It will be easy to perceive from this explanation, that the strongest soaps have the most alkali in their composition, since it is by the abundance of this ingredient that the cleansing cfTcct is