CDhap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 407 2494. Tlie acid juice contained in the common sorrel just mentioned, and likewise in lanother variety called wood sorrel {Oxalis acelocella), is what chemists term an oxalate of wotash, or more strictly a binoxalate of potash; that is, it consists of potash combined •ivith the oxalic acid. This salt, existing ready formed in the plant, though in a state of solution in the juice, may be procured in a dry state by evaporation; and it is then popu- larly named salt of sorrel. Large quantities of it are prepared from wood sorrel in Swit- (tserland and other neighbouring countries; sixty or seventy pounds of leaves yield about live ounces of the crystallised salt. With sugar and water the salt of sorrel forms a ibleasaut beverage; and in consequence of its having been substituted for lemons for lourposes of this kind, it has obtained the very absurd name of essential salt of lemons, khough having nothing to do with the lemon. But it is proper to state that one ibf the component parts of this salt, namely the oxalic acid, is a deadly poison; and hhat although the oxalate of potash is not so dangerous, it is by no means safe to use it an any quantity, and therefore very improper to employ it in any way in drink, though 11 has been ignorantly recommended to make a refreshing beverage in febrile diseases, or las imparting flavour to punch. If the result has not proved fatal, it has probably beau aecause the quantity taken was small. 2495. The most useful properly possessed by the salt of sorrel is that of taking out spots 6f ink or iron moulds from linen : it is also used by the cook in flavouring, instead of khe leaves. The process by which the salt of sorrel is obtained is very simple. The expressed juice of the leaves, being Uiluted with water, is suffered to remain at rest for a few days until the feculent parts have subsided ; or, if r;reater dispatch be necessary, it is clarified with the whites of eggs. When the hquor is sufficiently clear, it ■ 8 drawn on and evaporated by boiling, until a pellicle appears on the surface. It is then set in a cool place 1 o crystallise. When the first crop of crystals has been obtained, the liquor which remains is again evaporated ::ind crystallised ; and so the process continues until no more of the salt can be separated. In the late Professor Burnett's Botany it is stated that since Scheele discovered that oxalic acid may be ormed by acting on sugar with nitric acid, his process, being far the most economical, has in general super- •eded its extraction from the plant. SuBSECT. 4 Patience Dock (Bumen patientia. Linn.). 2496. This is called by the Germans winter spinach, and is a hardy perennial plant, tihe leaves of which may be cut several times in a season. It was formerly much used mixed with sorrel, but is now neglected. Sect. VI. ALLIACEOUS PLANTS. 2497. This tribe, which takes its name from allium, the onion, is distinguished by their (jvdbous roots, and the high pimgent flavour of their bulbs and leaves. They consist of jhe onion, leek, chive, garlic, and shallot. These plants are perhaps more generally liffused all over the world as an article of food than any other ; and from the Indus to ;;he northern tribes of Asia they were always held in high estimation. SuBSECT. 1. — Onion (^Allium Cepa, Linn.). 2498. The onion was cultivated in very remote times, having been known to the ancient ^Sgj'ptians, who worshipped it under some mystic signification 2000 years before the Christian era. It forms a favourite food in Egypt and in various other parts of Africa, rVhere it is distinguished by its delicate flavour. It is not known when onions were first sntroduced into England ; but they have been long used, and esteemed chiefly as a season- nng for'various dishes. 2499. The onion contains much nutritive mucilage. It is much more succulent, and ■"f a milder flavour in warm climates than with us. Those imported from Spain and '*ortugal are large and mild, and those from Strasburgh are much esteemed. These rarieties when planted in England degenerate, and become smaller and more pimgent. 'Onions are wholesome employed in any way ; they are eaten raw by labouring people, and in this state are strongly stimulant. When young they are sometimes introduced : nto salads. The large mild kinds, called Spanish onions, are often boiled or roasted, and ".re considered as an agreeable and nutritive food. They become much more succulent, i.nd their peculiar smell and taste is nearly destroyed, after having undergone culinary ^reparation. They form one of the most essential productions of the kitchen garden ; but he odour which they communicate to the breath is a great objection to their use in the ■ aw state : the best way of removing it is by chewing a little raw parsley. a.^OO. The potato onion is a curious variety, multiplying by numerous bulbs, like the 'wtato. 2501. The Cihoule or Welsh onion never forms any hulb at bottom, and is only cultivated H h 2