Chap. VII. 671 ON THE PRODUCTION OF COLD. known what quantity they may still contain after these experiments. Intense degrees of cold like these act with tlie most destructive and rapid eliect upon the living body ; and to handle frozen mercury is described by those who have attempted it like touching red- hot iron; the skin would be destroyed, and the part become frost-bitten. ;i787. In using a freezing mixture for ordinary purposes, it is sufficient to put it into a wooden vessel as a bad conductor, and then to place in that the vessel containing the Fig. 5G7. liquid to be cooled. But when the most intense cold is wished for in an experiment, the vessel containing the mixture should be placed within another a little larger, being supported by corks, as in the -n ooi-cut, Jig. 567., (where the front of the outer vessel is supposed to be removed) and covered over with woollen cloth : the air in the space between the two vessels, being a non-conductor, prevents the heat of the apartment from finding its way to the mixture, which, therefore, is obliged to rob the liquid to be cooled of its caloric. This mutual action of snow or ice and salt upon each other is well illustrated by the common practice of sprinkling salt upon a pavement that is coated with ice. The salt and ice soon dissolve and run olf as liquid brine, or it may be swept off. 3788. Mr. Walker of Oxford made a number of experiments in the production of cold by various frigorific mixtures, and the results are published in the " Philosophical Trans- actions" for 1795 and 1801. Mixtures. Muriate of ammonia Nitre Water Muriate of ammonia Nitre Sulphate of soda . IValcr Nitrate of ammonia Water Nitrate of ammonia f'arbonate of soda . IVaiir Siilpliate of soda , Diluted nitrous acid Mixtures. Muriate of soda Snow Muriate of soda Muriate of ammonia Snow Muriate of soda Muriate of ammonia Nitre Snow Muriate of soda Nitrate of ammonia Snow Mixtures of Salts without Snow. Parts by Weight. : n . laj . 5' . 51 . 81 . 16. : 1] . 1 Temp, falls from 60° to 10° 4° 4° _7o —30 Mixtures. Sulphate of soda . Muriate of ammonia Nitre Diluted nitrous acid Sulphate of soda . Nitrate of ammonia Diluted nitrous acid Phosphate of soda . Diluted nitrous acid Pliosphate of soda . Nitrate of ammonia Diluted nitrous acid Sulphate of soda . Muriatic acid Sulphate of soda . Diluted sulphuric acid Parts Weight. Temp, falls from 1)0° to -10° 5i Mixtures of Salts with Snow. Parts by Weight. : ii ■i? . 243 ■.n . 12i Temp, falls to —12° —18° -25° Mixtures. Diluted sulphuric acid Snow Concentrated muriatic acid Srww Concentrated nitrous acid Snow Muriate of lime Snow Crystallised muriate of lime Snotv Fused potash Snow Parts by Weight. : U ■ II n 5 4 u -14° -12° -21° 0° 3° Temp, falls to —23° -27° —30° —40° —50° —51° The snow should be just fallen, dry, and uncompressed. By first cooling the materials before they were mixed, thro\igh immersing them in other frigorific mixtures, Mr. Wallter obtained a degree of cold 100° below zero, the greatest degree of cold ever produced. 37H9. A viclhod invcntcri liy Proft'ssor Leslie of producing nrtijicial cold, and freezing water, depends upon the principle tliat water cvaporjites mucli more rapidly when the pressure of the atmosphere is withdrawn, as in the exhausted receiver oi' an air-pump. If some material be included in tlio receiver that absorbs vai)o»ir, the evaporation will proceed with still greater rapidity, and consequently a greater degree of refrigeration will take place. Sulphuric acid, which has a great al>sorbent power, is poured into a shallow dish to the depth of h.ilf an inch, in which is placed a small vessel with water that has lust its air by boiling ; the whole is then placed under the receiver, and most of the ai^ extracted. By the rarel'uction of the air, the water evaporates very quiclcly, and its vanour is absorbed as it forms by tile acid, so that, in a few minutes, the re- maining water is frozen Into a solid ma.ss. Tlie loss iif water seldom amounts to a liltecnth part, nor is it (ill after repeated use that the sulphuric acid becomes so weak as not to effect tlie absorption. The acid can thus effect the congelation of more than twenty times its wi'iglit of water. Mr. Leslie varied this process by substituting poiuuled trap-rock, well dried before the fire, instead of the sulphuric .icld. This powder, by the same property of absorbing aqueous vapour, was able to freeze the sixth part of its weight of w.'itcr. He also found Ih.it parched oatmeal was a convenient and poiverful ahsnrbent; and by means of the air-pump with a body of oatmeal of a foot in diameter, and ratlier more than an inch deep, he Iroze a |iound and a quarter of water contained In a hemispherical porous cup. The oatmeal, wiii('h is less hazardous than acid to those little used to experimenting. Is easily di led and restored again to tlie same action. It would appear from this oxiierimeiit, that, with an air-pump, it would bo easy to procure ice in a hot climate, or at sea. 3790. This method of keeping the air in a vo8.sol constantly dry by an absorbent substance is not only useful in producing cold, but also in drying many articles ; and it has lately been ill much use for the latter purpose.