HHAP. II. ICES AND COMPOTES. 933 h64i3. Gimblelles The ingredients are: 3 eggs, 6 oz. of flour, 4 oz. of sugar, and a little rasping of lemon- »el. Break the eggs, and add to them the sifted sugar and rasped lemon-peel; work them together Jd then add flour until the paste is neither too stiff nor too soft for rolling. KoU it and cut it in form of cpgs about the sizeof a five-shilling piece ; dip these rings into boiling water, taking them'out as soon as they irte to the surface ; drain them on a napkin, and put them on paper or plates to bake, in an oven moderately Mated. When nearly done, with a brush lightly wash them with white of eggs, put them into the oven for a li'.nutes to dry. ^5444. Scotch short bread The ingredients are: 1 lb. of butter, 2 lbs. of flour, J lb. of good brown sugar, J . of blanched almonds cut small, and i lb. of candied peel. Beat the butter to a cream, and add it to the flour kid sugar with the other ingredients. When well kneaded and incorporated, roll it out into cakes about an tih thick. Bake it in a moderate oven. .'5445. Macaroons. — The ingredients are : \ lb. of sweet almonds, 4 spoonfuls of orange- 'Wer water, 6 whites of eggs, and 1 lb. of sifted sugar. Blanch and pound the almonds ;dth the orange-flower water, or with some of the whites of eggs, if the flavour of orange ii)wers is not approved of. Whisk the whites and add them gently to the pounded nmonds, lest they should not be properly incorporated with it and should " oil," as the lonfectioner would say. Sift the sugar into the almonds till the whole forms a paste, not Kio stiff to be dropped on wafer paper, which must be spread ready to receive them on an Vt'en plate. When dropped wet a spoon that the paste may not adhere to it, and flatten Slid round each macaroon tiU of a good shape. Bake them in a very slow oven. (Bitter tiacaroons are made in the same way, but with bitter instead of sweet almonds.) .'^46. Light macaroons. — The ingredients are: J lb. of bitter, and J lb. of sweet almonds 1 lb. of sifted sugar, lid 4 whites of eggs. Blanch the almonds, but insteadof pounding cut them into small pieces, and moisten them itlth the white of one egg, and sift the sugar over them ; then put them into the oven till they brown. Beat la froth the rest of the eggs and add them to the paste, whisking the whole together; drop them on wafer ipper, spread on the tin oven plate, and shape them with a spoon dipped in cold water. Bake them in a very c»w oven. Cut the wafer paper round each macaroon, but leave it on the under surface. "5447. Ratafia biscuits.—The ingredients are: ^ lb. of bitter, audi lb. of sweet almonds. Ubs. of sugar, and 7 whites of eggs. Blanch and pound in a mortar with the whites of the reggs, the bitter and sweet almonds. They must be finely pounded before the sugar is idded, which must be sifted into the mortar, and then worked in very thoroughly with lee pestle for a quarter of an hour. These biscuits will not be good unless the sugar be :rry well incorporated with the other ingredients. Wash a bladder very clean, cut a DaaU hole at one end of it, and fasten a glass tube to it, of the size of the biscuit required; ken put into the bladder the ratafia paste, and press it gently through the tube in distinct riTops on a thick white paper ; drop the biscuits so that they do not touch each other, aake them on tin plates in a warm oven. If the paper sticks to the biscuit when baked, cmust be slightly wetted, when it can be easily removed, but the ratafias must in that L-se be put into the oven again to dry. : 5448. Almond wafers. — Ingredients: 1 lb. of sweet almonds, J lb. of sifted sugar, 1 oz. of Duur, and 2 eggs. Blanch and cut the almonds small; moisten them with the yolks and htiites of eggs previously beaten. Sift into them the sugar and the flour, and mix the hbole together with two drops of essence of lemon peel. Lightly butter a clean tin, and )rread the mixture over it as thin as possible. Bake it of a light brown, and cut it with kknife before it is cold into long squares j roll them immediately on pieces of wood, to aake them round and hollow. They are usually served to garnish creams. 56449. Dry merinques. — Ingredients : 12 whites of eggs, and 1 lb. of sugar. Beat up the 12 whites of eggs; h ien they are of a stifl'froth add to them the pound of sifted sugar, with some essence to flavour, either that 0 cloves, cinnamon, or lemon peel. Lay out the paste on paper in the form of large eggs halved ; cover them lith sugar, sifted through a silk sieve, and remove with a feather the surplus sugar. On a board two inches i\ick put the merinques to bake, for they must have no heat but from the top ; when of a fine colour, remove f; papers from them, and beat in with the back of a spoon the liquid part to form a hollow. Put them back t>ain into the oven, to dry the inside, which is to be filled at the moment they are to be served, either with cream or a jelly. Merinques are varied in colour and form, and may be ornamented with currants or naonds. y, CHAP. n. ICES AND COMPOTES. '5450. In this chapter, tmder different sections, will be found some suggestions con- rrning ices and computes, and some receipts for the guidance of novices in either branch confectionery. Those of computes are introduced in this chapter as being generally ' Companiments of ice*. Sect. I. ICES. .:5451. Ices are composed, it is scarcely necessary to say, of congealed cream or water, nmbined sometimes with liqueurs or other flavouring ingredients, or more generally with ' e juices of fruits. At desserts, or at some evening parties, ices are scarcely to be dis- 3 O 3