Chap. I. 537 WATER. It may be supposed that the quantity of metal thus dissolved, and still more the portion that is actually taken into the stomach, must be too minute to deserve serious attention, and that its eft'ects cannot be appreciable. But considering the complicated nature of the human frame, it is neither impossible nor improbable that a very minute portion of a deleterious substance taken with our aliment for a length of time may exercise an injurious influence after a series of years, although this effect may not be perceived in a short period. We find this to be the case in the use of spirituous liquors, and in other destructive habits. From a passage in Vitruvius, an architect of the time of Augustus, •\ve learn that the ancient Romans ^yere acquainted with the deleterious effects of lead; and he condemns the practice of conveying water in leaden pipes, as this metal, he observes, renders the water insalubrious; but it is observed that water has no action on lead pipes if they are kept always full, since thus the air is excluded. It would appear, therefore, to be a matter of common prudence to avoid as much as possible the use of a metal so dangerous as lead in forming cisterns and reservoirs ; or at all events, if it is employed for this purpose, care should be taken to clean such cisterns or other vessels frequently and not to suffer any water to remain long in them without being changed. It has indeed been confidently stated by physicians that a dangerous, and even fatal, colic has attended persons who have been obliged to use for some time water which has been contaminated by lead from pipes and cisterns; and that when pipes of wood, earthenware, or iron, were substituted, the water ceased to produce these dreadful effects. Dr. Paris mentions several cases of this kind. 3015. A very delicate test for the discovery of lead in water is sulphate of potash or sulphate of soda, which. Dr. Thomson informs us, will detect it, even should it not exceed one part in 100,000 parts of water. A drop or two of this test in a glass of water will show the presence of lead by a cloudy precipitate. Notwithstanding, however, the opinion which we have just expressed on the impropriety of using lead in general for conveying and preserving water, there is one case which forms a remarkable exception to the principles we have stated. It was first shown by Guyton Morveau, and afterwards more particularly by Dr. Christison of Edinburgh, that the presence of saline matter of some kinds in water retards the oxidation of lead ; and that some salts, even in very minute quantities, prevent it altogether. Such waters, therefore, as have dissolved in them a portion of these salts may be safely conveyed and kept in that metal. Thus a small quantity of muriates and sulphates, which exist in many kinds of spring water, preserve lead from corrosion. " In water containing these," observes Dr. Turner, " the metal gains weight during some weeks, in consequence of its surface gradually acquiring a superficial coating of carbonate, which is slowly decomposed by the saline matter of the solution. The metallic surface being thus covered by an insoluble film composed of the salt and the lead, adhering tenaciously, all further change ceases." The water of Edinburgh has this property ; and likewise all waters which are hard through containing sulphate of lime. But no soft water, such as rain water, possesses this advantage. In recommending that lead cisterns should be frequently cleaned, we must remark that we do not advise that they should be scoured bright; for this would, by exposing the pure metal to the action of the water, occasion it to be more readily dissolved, and destroy the protecting crust; but by cleaning we mean only removing the mud and other loose impurities that may have settled to the bottom, or be attached to the sides, for which brooms and brushes are sufficient. 3016. In treating of rain water we mentioned the possibility of obtaining a sufficient supply by means of a roof properly constructed,— a circumstance of great importance in places where wells or springs are scarce. 3017. Tanks for rain water have been long employed in some parts of England, particularly in the Isle of Thanet and in Berkshire. They are sunk in the ground, and are of a cylindrical form, resembling a shallow well. The best lining is brick laid in Parker's cement, or very strong mortar, and covered with a coat of cement half an inch thick. It will be best to cause the water to run through a large filter of sand and char- coal previously to passing into the tank. The tank should be arched over with a flat dome of brick, having an opening : to clean it out when required, which may be closed by a >^ stone. If the water be first filtered, there will be very little deposit. A pump may be fixed in tlie tank to raise the ^ water. By means of such a tank almost every house might be supplied with soft and pure water. 3018. The annexed wood-cut (^y. 539.) exhibits a sec- tion of the arrangement of this tank with its filter, a is the division of the filter into which the rain water is conducted from the roof by a pipe; from this it passes below the par- tition in the middle between a and i, rises through the ^^^^