I Chap. V. ILLUMINATION BY MEANS OF GAS. lagain placed over it, signs of recovery will appear, the light will resume its former brlght- imess, and, after a short time, even the dew will disappear from the glass, and all this in .consequence of the proper ventilation of the light. These effects, though striking, may leasily be understood by any one who will think of the difference of lighting a fire in the nmiddle of a room, instead of under, or in right juxtaposition to a chimney. " Then came the desire of modifying the system, by removing the ascending tlue from its place over the lamp, not from any deficiency in action, but for appearance sake only ; iand finding that there was sufficient ascension power in the main part of the metal i chimney to allow of a descending draught over the lamp, the tube, in place of going Jdirectly upwards, was made to turn short over the edge of the glass, to descend to the aarm or bracket, to pass along it, and then ascend at the central part of the chandelier, or '.against the wall, if applied to a single light. To this succeeded another form, which is rexceedingly beautiful, and appears to be the perfection of lamp ventilation. It is, in fact, aa beautiful application of the principle of a descending draught to a lamp-burner. The cgas-light has its glass chimney as usual, but the glass-holder is so constructed as to sus- tain not merely the chimney, but an outer cylinder of glass, larger and taller than the lifirst; the glass-holder has an aperture in it, connected by a mouthpiece with a metal tube which serves as a ventilating flue, and which, after passing horizontally to the centre oof the chandelier, there ascends to produce draught and carry off the burnt air. " Fig. 153., a, is the burner ; b, the gas pipe leading to the burner ; c, the glass holder. f9 i with an aperture in it, opening into the mouthpiece d, which is attached to the metal chimney ; e, the ordinary glass chimney ; f, an outer cylinder of glass, closed at the top by a plate of mica, g; or, still better, by two plates of mica, one resting on the top of the glass, and the other one, h, dropping a short way into it. They are connected together by a metal screw and nut, which also keeps them a little apart from each other ; thus forming a stopper, which cannot be shalten off the glass chimney, but is easily lifted on and off by the small metal ring or knob at the top ; /', is the metallic tube chimney ; k, a ground globe, which may be applied to the lamp, and which has no opening, except the hole at the bottom, where it rests on the glass- liolder: but any other form, as a lotus Fig. 153. ; glass or vase, may be substituted at pleasure. " A, Jig. 153., is a plan of the glass-holder, showing the burner, a, in the centre, perforated with jets, with openings round it to allow of a free admission of air to the flame— and the aperture, d, which opens into the mouthpiece connected with the metal chimney, i. " The burnt air and results of combustion, take the course indicated by the arrows, and .1 are entirely carried away by the chimney. " Now, with a lamp burning in the ordinary way, the products of combustion issue out 1 as a torrent of aerial impurity from above ; but if the above arrangement be applied, on ■ closing the top of the outer glass cylinder by a plate of mica, all the soot, water, carbonic ! acid, sulphureous and sulphuric acid, and a portion of the heat, are entirely carried away ' by the aerial sewerage, and discharged into a chimney or the open air; and the air in rooms may thus be kept in the same sweet and wholesome condition, and as fit for the purposes of respiration, as if artificial light were not being used. " A curious but important result of the enclosed lamp, is the increase of light produced, amounting to from 10 to 20 per cent., according to circumstances, the same quantity of gas being consumed as before. If the current of air through a lamp glass, when the gas is burning in the usual manner, be diminished, the flame rises in height, and the light is increased in amount; the combustion, in fact, is not so intense, because the access of air is retarded, the particles of carbon which give the light are not so highly ignited, but are more abundant, and are ignited for a longer time, thereby causing an increase of light " The advantages of this invention are many ; it is not objectionable in architectural appearance ; the ventilation is perfect; the heat given to a room is modified and pleasant, and may be either sustained or diminished at pleasure ; the light, for good philosophical reasons, is increased considerably for a given portion of gas; and additional safety from accidents is obtained, as in the event of any leakage from the pipes, or from a gas-cock being inadvertently left open, the gas, instead of mixing with tlie air of the room and be- coming explosive, would almost inevitably be carried off by the metal tubes.