278 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. structed, they are a nuisance ; but we can recommend the following, patented by Wiss, near Charing Cross, London. Fkj. 4.^)4. a, n, is the cistern for water, surrounding the three sides of a box which holds the pan b; the cistern is filled by lifting up a small lid c, and by pull- ing the handle of an engine, by which the water is forced into the pan through the washer. This water, by its weight, opens the hinged valve at the bottom of the pan, and carries the contents into a pail, e, placed beneath. This pail has a cover with a projection that dips into a groove containing a little water, that effectually prevents any effluvia from coming out. The pail can be removed to empty it. This apparatus may be made in a variety of forms; as a seat, an arm- / Fi 454 1 cliair, a commode, settee, &c. The same ■ moveable box, with the cistern and pan, may be used without a pail, and be more complete, where there is the convenience of connect- ing it with a pipe to go into a drain or cesspool. In this case there is a curved tube, /, to be joined to the pipe ; which, being always full of water up to the dotted line, stops any smell from ascending. Sect. V. WARDROBES. 1238. Wardrobes are far more convenient for keeping apparel than the chests of dratoers formerly in general use. In wardrobes, the dresses are hung up, or laid on shelves which draw out, and are therefore not injured by folding: also, by unlocking one or two doors, the whole is exposed to view, or secured by locking them, without the trouble of employ- ing the lock and key of each drawer. Wardrobes are made of various forms and sizes, according to the particular uses for which they are required, or the expense to be gone to, and they are accordingly constructed of various woods, as mahogany, wainscot, or deal painted. Fig. 455. represents one of the simplest and cheapest wardrobes, being a press with Fig. i!>5. Fig. 459. Fig. 458. folding doors and sliding shelves. At the bottom is a deep drawer for holding bonnets and caps : these are best placed upon bonnet holders within the drawer, ^(;. 4C)Cy., or hung on hooks fixed in the inside of the drawers, as mfg. 457. Drawers certainly exclude the dust better than sliding shelves; and they may be equally convenient if the fronts are made to fold down in the manner of a piano forte : this is shown just above the deep drawer in Jig. 455. ... But the most complete mode of excluding all dust from delicate things is to have each drawer covered by four pieces of paper fixed by paste to the upper edges of the drawer. Two of these papers, which must be in width more than half that of the drawer, and consequently lap over each other, are first folded down, and over them the other two. as shown in fig. 458. In many cases two ouly will be found sufficient. The paper should be rather tiiin and pliable.