Chap. III. 567 BREWING. modes of proceeding, the choice of which will depend upon the kind of malt liquors required. If both ale and good table beer be wanted, the first wort alone may be reserved for the ale, as containing the most valuable extract of the malt, and the second and third mashings may produce the wort for the table beer, which is the usual practice ; or these two last may be made into separate beers, the last being of very inferior quality. If it be required to make as much as possible of tlie best ale, then a certain quantity of wort may be still obtained from the malt of a quality nearly equal to the last, which may be added to it, by the following process. Pour or rather sprinkle water, of the temperature of about 170°, on the surface of the malt in the mash tun, without stirring it, by means of a watering-pot having the holes in the nose larger than usual: or any kind of vessel, as a pail with holes in the bottom, may be suspended over the mash tun, and the water being poured into this, it may be moved about by hand and directed to every part of the mash. The tap hole of the mash tun being left open, wort nearly of the same richness as that at first obtained will flow, tiU the whole residue of the first wort which had been detained in the malt had run out. To know when to stop pouring on water, which should be done gradually, and at intervals, taste frequently the wort that rims out. When its sweetness diminishes greatly, which will take place almost suddenly, the tap hole is to be closed, and no more water is to be added. This wort is to be added to that already drawn. If any more water be added in the above manner, it will give a wort only fit for the table beer; its odour will be inclined to sourishness, although it be not, in fact, acid. This process is termed by the brewers sparging. But if it be required to maike a good deal of weaker beer, as, for instance, table beer, then this last process may be omitted, and the second mashing gone on with immediately. Before we proceed, it may be proper to mention that in the mash tun, provision is made to prevent the malt which has been employed, now called grains, from coming off with the wort, either by a strainer in the inside, or by a double perforated bottom for this purpose, which will be described when we treat of the construction of the appai-atus used in brewing. 3188. Second mashing. — There being still, as we have said, much of the extract re- maining in the grains, warm water is again poured upon it in the mash tun, to make a second infusion. As there appears to be some difference of opinion with regard to the degree of temperature at which the water should be employed, it is necessary that we should resort to principles in determining this point. Richardson and other eminent brewers recommend that the heat of the water in the second mash should be 5° more than that of the first, and that of the third mash increased by 5° farther, raising the temperature in each succeeding mashing, in order to extract more from the malt. The reason for this is, in the first place, that all risk of setting is over after the first mash, and because it is desirable in the succeeding ones to obtain as much soluble matter as possible from the malt. But it has been observed by Dr. Thomson, Mr. Aikin, and other eminent chemists, that by far the greater part of the richest and most saccharine or fermentable part of the malt has been already extracted in the first mashing, which is reserved for the most delicately flavoured liquor; and that although by this mode of proceeding, namely, in- creasing the heat in each mash, the second worts will acquire a greater specific gravity, yet that this gravity does not arise from saccharine matter only, but chiefly from starch and mucilage, substances which, when in excess, greatly deteriorate the quality of the liquor, and are liable to occasion failure by their turning acid. It is certain that the wort of the second mashing has but little sweetness, and a flavour and odour rather unpleasant than otherwise. 3189. Third mash. — The wort of the third mashing is of a greatly inferior quality, containing little else than mucilage, which, although by hopping may be made into a very indifferent small beer, is extremely apt to turn sour. Some, therefore, recommend that the water for the first mash should be 180°, that for the second 170°, and that for the third, if taken, 160°. With respect to the heat used in the first mashing, if it be too low, there is considerable risk of the wort contracting a sourness in the beginning of the brewing. In general, therefore, as Mr. Donovan admits, the higher heat is preferable. On these and similar subjects the judgment of the brewer must be exercised with reference to the object he has in view in brewing, and it is possible only to lay down principles for his guide. 3190. In great breweries, they sometimes make a fourth mash, but this is only used in what they call a return, which is merely used instead of water in the next brewing. 3191. The whole of the kernel of the malt is never enlirely dissolved by the hot water, even by the last mashing ; the husks, called grains, still contain a certain quantity which is more or less according to the process, and form a nutritious food for cattle, pigs, &c. Grinding the malt finer would be favourable to a more complete extraction, but we have already stated the objection to this, from the difficulties of getting the water to pass through it in mashing without the aid of machinery. 3192. The cimsliluenls of wort have been examined by Dr. Thomson, Professor or O o 4