Ai>. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC. BUILDINGS. 73 Mdest upon the floor. Whate-ver, therefore, will warm the floor most, -will have most iifect in wanning the air of the apartment. Keeping the fire low must have this effect ore than if it is higher, since the radiant heat must strike most upon the floor : ud the difierence is very remarkable in the warmth which our feet experience whether we fire be low or high up. Keeping the mantle low in proportion is likewise useful for larmth ; for the air beloto the level of the mantle is liable to go off" into the chimney and ; I carried up the flue ; but whatever is above the mantlfe cannot escape. It is evidently isirable that no air shall go up the flue, except what has been rendered unfit for •v-eathing, by passing through the fire and serving the purpose of combustion. This we lipght do by shutting up the whole front of the chimney except the place where the bars F ' the grate are: but we should thus convert the grate into a furnace, and the draught would c! too strong: the fuel would be rapidly consumed, and the rush of air towards the rfe would be in proportion. ; 328. The ividth of the throat of the chimney has a great ivfluence, both on the draught, ud on the escape of warm air. For as no fire can burn without air, and as there must ti always a quantity going up the flue, just in proportion to the combustion, when the mroat is narrow, the current must be more rapid than when it is wider, just as the current f' a river wiU become more rapid in the part where the width of it is suddenly con- aacted : hence the reason why contracting the throat, by making the ascending current f " air in that spot more powerful, enables it to overcome any downward puff's that would cccasion smoke. : 329. The proper height of the mantle above the fire is an aff'air of nice adjustment: for 'lit be too low, it will cause the current of air towards the fire to be too rapid, and the fire lill burn away too fast without giving out much heat; and if it be too high, the current Ey be too little in the throat, and much of the warm air of the room will escape. No e can be laid down for this that will suit all cases : much will depend upon the parti- ar form of the grate, and it must be determined by the skill of the person who directs work. In the best gi'ates now made with frames, this height is generally well adjusted. 530. Although the farther out the back of the grate is brought, the more heat will thrown into the room, yet this should be limited by the proper construction of the oat of the chimney; and bringing it too forward is liable, in many cases, also to occasion oke as well as the annoyance of ashes. 331. A small flue for carrying off the dust made by the ashes which fall from the grate was Bae of those numerous little inventions made by Count Rumford, which, though ingenious, Bad promising at first to be useful, was laid aside after repeated trials ; and it would not I03W be mentioned, had it not lately been published as a novelty, although it had been xsecuted in England in hundreds of places thirty-five years ago. It is obvious, that r^henever any ashes fall from the fire upon the hearth, particularly when the fire is inirred, a certain portion of them, from their lightness, rises in a little cloud, and is dis- persed through the air of the apartment, settling at last upon the furniture. To obviate hbis inconvenience, the Count made a small flue to ascend from below the bottom of the TTate, passing behind the back of the fire-place, and terminating in the smoke flue just bbove the throat. The air in this little flue being heated by the fire, a current is always cBt up through it from the back of the hearth, so that when any ashes fell they were airried sharply under the grate and up this flue, instead of coming into the room. This fsrtainly had the desired effect in a great measure ; but several inconveniences attended liae contrivance. Its construction required great depth in the chimney, which was not Hways sufficient without bringing the grate too far forward. The ash-flue was very aable to be choked up by soot falling from the smoke-flue, and this soot was very liable to ve inflamed, and set the chimney on fire, being at the same time rather troublesome to clean out ; also, this flue occasioning a current of air to pass up, it was supplied by the cold inr rushing towards the fire; and it thus increased sensibly one of the greatest inconve- 1 iences of an open fire, the current of cold air striking upon our legs and feet. It was chiefly useful when, as formerly, the bottom of the grates had been kept at a great height above the icearth; but since grates have been kept low, the necessity of this ash-flue has disappeared. SuBSECT. 3 On Grates. 332. The grate has become an essential part of our chimney fire-places, since coal has Deen the general fuel ; but the forms of these now made are so various, that it would be iimpossible to describe all in a work like the present; nor would it be useful to give many •xamples, since every manufacturer has his own patterns, which are therefore now lilmost as numerous as those of the calico printer. It will be more useful to lay down come principles by which the choice may be directed in the show-room. We must there- I'ore refer the reader to all that we have said on the essential improvements by Count iilumford, which must form the foundation of good rules. 333. The register stove, fig. whicli was much in use about forty years ago, was con- ; idered as a great improvement upon the open chimney before its introduction. This grate