INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. Chap. IV. 1233 The excitement of mixed soclet}' must in many cases be avoided, but the presence of friends is often singularly beneficial, by withdrawing the mind from constant attention to its own thoughts. Too mucli sympathy must not be given; and, especially in the middle classes, one must guard against that strange fanaticism, which, under the semblance of religion, is too frequently an attendant source of hysteria. Improvement in bodily health will often remove hysterical affections ; hence country air, plenty of exercise, on foot as well as on horseback, and sea-bathing, are of essential use. Plaiu food and warm clothing are also essential. SoBSECT. 9.— WJiithws. 7254. These are extremely painful affections, arising from the formation of matter under some of the dense structures of the end of the fingers and thumb. Cold lotions, or a bread poultice, may be applied ; but the most effectual, and after a time, if the case be severe, the necessary treatment is letting out the matter with a lancet; and though this little operation is somewhat painful, yet it is much less so than the torment which often attends the disease. 7255. Severe Whitlow. — In commencing, laudanum applied constantly by means of a rag dipped in it, and put round the finger, is a good and soothing remedy. SUBSECT. 10. — Boils. 7256. These are painful Swellings of a hard dense structure, slowly increasing in size, till sometimes they become as large as a pigeon's egg, or larger; after a time, matter forms and discharges itself, then the core, as it is vulgarly called, comes away, and the boil heals up. They should be poulticed, and balsam of Peru applied twice a day ; when matter forms, the surgeon's lancet will expedite the cure. SuBSECT. 11.— Carbuncle. 7257. This is a large swelling, occurring chiefly on the back, very painful, and often four or five or more inches in circumference ; matter gradually forms and discharges itself by several openings. It is a serious disease and requires prompt medical aid. Poultices must be applied twice a day. If the patient be old and feeble, the strength must often be supported by animal food, malt liquor, and perhaps wine and Peruvian bark administered. SuBSECT. 12.— Chilblains. 7258. These generally arise from sudden variation of temperature, particularly in delicate and loosely-clothed children ; they are most common on the feet, but may occur on the hands, nose, ears, or other parts of the body. There is a red painful swelling, which itches very much when in bed ; ice or cold water is the best thing, and should be used two or three times a day, or various stimulating applications are resoited to, as campho- rated spirits of wine, tincture of myrrh, or spirit of turpentine. The part should be well clothed, and changes of temperature guarded against. If chilblains are not arrested in this way, the red colour becomes blue, and after a time a vesicle rises, which opens, and leaves a sore and painful place. To this a poultice should be applied, or linen rags covered with some simple ointment. If the sore do not improve, certain applications are necessary, but which must not be used without the sanction of the medical attendant, SuBSECT. 13 — Piles. 7259. In many instances this troublesome complaint arises entirely from a want of due attention to the state of the bowels, conjoined with sedentary habits, fleficicncy of exercise, and over-eating. In many cases the patient receives great relief from gentle exercise on foot and horseback, unU ss there be so uuich pain as to render this painful, in which case medical advice is necessary ; otherwise inflammation of the parts may ensue, and cause excruciating torment. With regular daily exercise also, a diet light and digestible must be used, and the bowels kept in a lax and proper state by a mixture of nuignesia and sulphur, or a tea-spoonful of the confection of senna, taken every night: if this be not active enough, a drachm of powdered jalap may be added to every ounce of the confection, and a tea-spoonful of this taken. 'J'he parts should bo well washed once or twice a day with cold soap and water, and afterwards an ointment may be applied, nuide of a drachm or two of powdered gall-nuts with an ounce of lard or any simple ointment: it is better to begin with a small quantity of gall-nut and gradiuilly to increase it. If the confection of senna be not strong enough, half a tea-spoonful of sulphtir may be added to every dose. Sometimes, and particularly in sedentary individiuils, the lower part of the bowels gets tinged with blood and relaxed, giving rise to the idea of piles being