WATER. i525 CHAP. I. iiontain, the nature of which -will depend upon the season of the 5'ear, and whether iihey have been increased by snow and floods, or whether from the heat of the summer, they are more or less impregnated with animal and vegetable matter. Another . ource of the supply of rivers, but one much less considerable, is derived from springs, tV-hich, consisting of water that has long filtered through different strata, is sometimes ■extremely pure, and in other places highly charged with mineral salts. The proportion iff these last, however, being comparatively small, river water is, in general, remarkably noft, and next in purity to rain water. 2936. After storms rivers become muddy from the earthy and boggy matter through which ihey pass, and which they sweep away as they swell above their ordinary channel. It is fi-vident, also, from what has been said, that the water of rivers must be purer the more fire advance towards their sources; and that the greatest quantity of contaminating matter ir-HU be found where they nearly reach the sea, the water in their mouths being brackish. 2937. Some streams that flow over a rocky or pebbly bed, particularly those in a moun- aainous country, as in Wales and Switzerland, are remarkably pure and transparent, laaving been filtered by the clean siliceous pebbles and sand through which they pass; iivers that wind through plains composed of soft strata are often extremely muddy, hhough they may be free from saline contents. 2938. It is here important to notice and explain the difference between impurities being mchanically suspended in water and being dissolved in that fluid. If fine sand or clay he iTgitated in a glass of clean water, a turbid mixture wiU be produced; but if the water be. ■juffered to rest quietly for a day or two, all the sand and clay will settle to the bottom, nnd the water will remain perfectly clear as at first. The particles of the sand and clay rt^ere merelj' suspended for a time in the water, in consequence of the motion given to it, ■aeir extreme minuteness rendering them easily disturbed: but when that motion has .eased, these particles being specifically heavier than water, that is, fragments of sub- ::tances that would sink in water, they fall to the bottom, or subside by their superior -ravity : rest, therefore, for a certain time, is alone suflicient to separate such substances, iilut the case is very different with what is actually dissolved in water. Take as an \xample some common salt. This, in dissolving, disappears entirely: it does not cause lae water to be muddy, and if the fluid stand quiet ever so long, not a particle will fall ') the bottom. The salt is here chemically united to the water, and no rest can have any Effect upon it so as to separate it. This is the case with all the salts which are held in .'ater; and likewise with some other substances, as mucilage and gelatine, or gum and lilue, which will dissolve in the same manner, and will not fall down in consequence of rest. 2939. Though the water of rivers is produced from the union of that of springs with rain later, and hence must contain the salts of the former, together with a variety of matters collected by the rivulets and streams which flow over the surface of the earth, yet in teneral, as we said before, it possesses considerable purity. Much of the carbonate of nme is deposited during its passage through the water, being exposed to the air; and the rreater part of the animal and vegetable substances carried down into it is held merely 11 a state of mechanical suspension, and is not dissolved ; for while the water is in con- .:ant motion, the putrefaction of these matters does not take place, or in a small degree; •ence the greater part may be separated by subsidence when the water is suffered to be at •est, or by filtration. 2940. Bui it should be remarked that though river water, even when originally extremely foul. My be purified by means of filtration to a very considerable degree, yet it can scarcely be (xpected that it can thus be deprived entirely of all impurities, since, notwithstanding all 'ossible care, some small portion will escape the best filters. If the filters, however, are tood, the quantity of these will be extremely small; but the impurities which have been •issolved in the water cannot be separated by ordinary filtration. See farther, Sect. X. Filtration." 2941. River water is almost always soft, because the principal portion of it has been 'ollected from rain water that has never passed through the strata, but flowed only upon ihe surface, and because the greater part of the earthy salts have had time to be deposited: )ut from the most noxious impregnations consisting of animal and vegetable matters which .lave been carried into it, or which have been generated in the rivers themselves, by rarious aquatic insects and plants, and which have been partly mechanically suspended, r.nd partly dissolved in the water, it is never quite pure. If such river water be suffered 10 rest, part of this matter will subside, but some will still remain, and though putrefaction lid not take place while the water was in motion, yet this effect will happen whenever the vater becomes stagnant. 2942. For this reason it is very desirable that artificial pieces of water employed to orna- ment pleasure grounds should, if possible, have some motion, to prevent the bad effects i.lways produced by stagnant water. What has been said of artificial lakes and ponds applies likewise to reservoirs of cverv sind. ^