344 HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND TUEIll DUTIES. Book V7. the umber js most commonly used ; with new oak floors, the ochre. After the scouring ami tlie washing witli the coloured water has been done, the most laborious part, that of polishing, called dry rubbimj, the boards, remains to be accomplished. For this work, the housemaid must have a large, heavy, hard brush, in length, one foot or more, in width, about eight inches, affixed to a long stake, or handle. With this brush and a little hot, dry sand, she must scrub the floor to and fro the way of the grain, until the polish, destroyed by scouring, be i-estored. Sometimes bees' wax is used to accelerate the re- appearance of the bright surface ; but bees' wax, in restoring the polish, at the same time renders the boards so slippery as to make walking on them scarcely less dangerous than on ice. Friction alone will, by frequent repetition, brighten the boards sufficiently without the inconvenience of making them slippery also. After the dry ruhbitig is over the sand is swept away, and for the next ten or twelve months, these boards will only require sweeping every day, and a little dry rubbing once a week. 1617. In Prance, where carpets .ire less commonly used than in Kngland, oaken Doors are seen in most of the great houses and in hotels. They are kept in a liighly-polished state by men — the work being there considered as too laborious for women. The men perform this duty with their feet, to one of which they fasten the brush ; and with great activity, and without much apparent fatigue, they soon bring a glass-like surface to the lloors. They employ wax and other polishing substances to hasten their work. 1018. Fur removing spots of grease from boards, take equal parts of fullers' earth and pearlash — a quarter ol a pound of each —and boil in a quart of soft water, and, while hot, lay it on the greased parts, allowing it to remain on them for ten or twelve hours, after which it may be scoured off with siind and water. A floor much spotted with grease should be completely washed over with this mixture the day before it is scoured. Pullers' earth .and ox-galt boiled together form a very powerful cleansing mixture for floors or carpets. Spirits of turpentine, rubbed for a short time forcibly on grease spots, dissolve the gre,ise in the floor, and make it readily unite with ijeaiiash or soap, with either of which the parts should be afterwards washed. Di-ops of tallovi may be scraped oil'. Stains of ink, dried in on floors, are difficult to eradicate. Strong vinegar or sajts of lemon will remove them. Red teine stains on boards may be removed by laying on thein a strong solution of soda. If this be not sufficient, t/ie chloriUe of. lime or bleaching liquid, sold by chemists iu half- pint bottles, will remove them. SuBSECT. 3.— Cleaning the Sides of Apartments. 1G19. As oil paint is injured by too frequent scouring, it is necessary to use every means which may render the scouring of paint rarely needful; first, by cleaning the walls, edges, and mouldings from all lodgements of dust, frequently sweeping and daily dusting them with the proper hair broom, called the Turk's head, over which a clean linen duster should be tied. Every angle, the favourite nook of the house spider, should be cleared, as well as the panels and ledges of doors. In sweeping the mouldings of the ceiling cornices, great care must be taken not to break them, they being made of plaster, and consequently brittle. 1620. Partial washing of spots and stains on oil paint may prevent the necessity of more frequent general scourings. Every week the housemaid should examine the paint, and remove with a flannel and soap and water any spots upon it, finger marks, &c. within her reach ; having wiped them away with the flannel, taking care to wipe those parts dry, so as not to leave it visible where the cleaning has been done. 1621. In washing or .scouring paint little soap should be used, the alkali of the soap having a tendency to injure oil paint. But water alone is not sufficient. After scouring with the brush and soap, plenty of water should be used to wash off what remains of the soap ; otherwise, if left on the paint, it will cause its decay. 1622. Oak wahiscot should, when necessary, be washed only with a sponge and warm water; after which it should be rubbed with a brush, like mahogany. 1623. Stairs in towns are frequently painted in oil either white or of stone colour. The parts which are not covered with carpet should be washed weekly with warm water and two sponges ; one to wash, the other to dry, the stairs with : by using sponges the edges of the stair carpet are not so likely to be injured, as by a brush or scouring flannel. Painted stairs look clean and neat while the paint remains on them; but the paint requires to be renewed almost every second year. 1624. When walls are painted in distemper (see Book I. Chap. VI. " Painting"), they will not bear the application of water, and therefore admit of no cleaning except that of sweeping down gently from them all the dust that may adhere to them. 162.';. Paper-hangings of walls also admit of very little cleaning except that of sweeping them down with the hair broom, covered with a clean linen duster. Stains by smoke may sometimes be cleaned by rubbing them with the crumb of a loaf. Grease can scarcely, by any means, be removed from paper hangings. 1626. Whenever a room is fresh papered it is desirable to reserve small pieces of it, that repairs may be made in the case of any part being torn off or injured. SuBSECT. 4. — Cleaning Marble and Stone Work. 1627. Marble floors, chimney pieces, and hearths, are simply washed with a flannel or sponge and soap and water, and wiped dry with linen cloths. If stained either with oil, wine, or discoloured with smoke, other means must be employed to clean them.