U7 I Chap. IV. LAMPS. Fig. Il.'i. sometimes used as a common passage lamp to hang on a wall. Fig. 115. CHAP. IV. LAMPS. Sect. I. THE SIMPLEST KINDS OF LASfPS. hniip. 682. The most siviplc lamp consists in a vessel of any shape, filled with oil, or other ; inflammable liquid, and having a short depression or spout on one side, on which lies a iwick composed of any fibrous substance capable of imbibing the oil by its capillary : attraction. The oil thus raised and diffused through the wick, when set fire to, admits of ':being heated to such a degree of tempei-ature as is capable of volatilising the oil; the vapour of which, in a state of combustion, constituting the flame of the lamp. 68.3. The wick of a lamp serves only for the purpose of raising up the oil, and thus 'giving a constant supply of just the necessary quantity to the flame. It furnishes no part of the light by the combustion of its own substance ; for the quantity <consumed is too small to desei"ve notice, and it is usually coated over with a hard deposit 1 of carbonaceous matter, which cannot burn for want of the access of air; the flame in fact I keeping the wick from it. 684. Fiy. 112. represents a lamp nf thesimplesi Aindmadeofhammered iron, still used in the Orkney and Shetland islands for burning fish oil, procured by melting the livers of a small fish caught there in abun- dance. The wick is of peeled rush. The upper vessel holds the oil, and the lower one is to catch the drippings. The lamp is fixed in the walls of the cottages by the bent top. The Esquimaux make their lamps of a kind of pot stone, and use them not only for getting light during the long, dark, and dreary winter months, but also for boiling their kettles. Their wicks consist of moss laid in the oil. 685. Fig. 113. is an exuinplc of the common Greek and Roman lump made of terra cotta. Such are found in great numbers in Herculaneum and Pompeii. ^'V- "- 686. Several improvements have been made in the simple The size of the wick is a circumstance very important to attend to. We have already shown how essential it is that the air shall have access to every part of the flame, in order to insure complete /p^^ combustion: if the wick be large, a great deal of carbon v^0^-7^^CI__^^—vapour remains unburnt in the interior of the flame, and breaks out at the top in the form of smoke : and the flame appears yellow, or even brownish. This is the case with I'ig. 11^. torches which always give a great deal of smoke. The - smaller the wick, the clearer and whiter wiU be the flame ; because, from what has just been said, it is obvious that there will be less unconsumed carbon in the interior of the flame: but a very small wick cannot give much light, as it diminishes with the superficies of the flame. The inconvenience of thick wicks has been long observed, and many attempts have been made to remove it. 687. It was first noticed by Dr. Franklin, that two small wicks placed close together gave more light than one equal in qiiantity to both : the air being admitted between them, there is more surface of flame than in one only ; see fuj. 114. a. Three wicks, b, for the same reason, give still more light, but consume.oil in proportion. But it is rather difficult to keep several wicks always at the same height, and there is a good deal of trouble in adjusting and trimming them. 688. A flat wick is found to obviate this inconvenience, and to give a much better and clearer light, with less smoke, than a round one that consumes the same quantity of oil. Tliese are consequently now much used. By making the lamp of metal, and attaching an upright cylinder to the cistern, which is covered, and causing the wick to rise vertically through small tubes, greater cleanliness is insured; this lamp is 689. aand b, fig. 116., represent lamps made in the form of candle-tticks, with the wick FiR. 114.