i:nAP. VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. 35 Fig. 32. eess than 135 degrees, unless the same shall be iiin-coui-sed, the stones are used of all sizes as they jome out of the quaiTy, the interstices of the large Hieing filled up with smaller ones (see a, fig. 31.), land sometimes they are hammer dressed on the face. When the wall is coursed, the stones for each course loeing selected of the proper size, and rough dressed, they are laid as at b. This mode of hiiilding is much ased in country places, where stone is plentiful; and hhe mason's work may be covered with stucco or roughcast. 115. Pise, or earth compressed in mould, is a ma- eerial very common in some parts of France, and mouses. built in this way are both warm and com- fortable ; but it is little employed in this country. Walls of mud and straw are confined to cottages, umd are not to be recommended. SuBSECT. 7.—Chimneys. 116. The situation of all the chimney fire-places having been determined in the ground oilan, the bricklayer proceeds to set them out with care, and the carpenter to lay his joists iaccordingly. 117. The building act requires that there shall be no timber over the opening of any cbhimney for supporting the breast, but that there shall be an arch of brick or stone, or an irron bar ; and no timber shall be laid in the wall under the hearth of any chimney nearer thhan eighteen inches from the surface of the hearth. The hearth of every chimney shall boe laid on brick or stone ; and the chimney shall have a slab of stone, marble, iron, or tile, cat least eighteen inches broad, and one foot longer than the opening of the chimney ; such F ilabs shall be laid upon brick or stone trimmers. In party walls there is to be thirteen ianches of brickwork between the backs of chimneys on each side of the wall. 118. a b c (Jig. 32.) represents the plan of a r'lhimney; d ghi are the joists, and / is a short joist ;alled a trimmer let into the trimming joists g and I, at the same distance from the wall as the marble ;i.lab is to come into the room. This trimmer is ■hhown at m, in the section above supposed to be laken through the dotted line in the plan. The ase of this trimmer is to support the end of a very Mat brick arch, seen in the section, extending 'rrom the wall; this arch must be so flat as to be »vholly included, together with the thickness of hhe hearth, in that of the floor. The breadth of hhe brickwork of the chimney at 6 and c is ibbliged, by act of parliament, to be such that no »TOod-work may lie nearer to the flues than nine nnches. The whole of the hearth and slab thus tests upon bricks as a security from fire. The leepth of the chimney in the wall is left to the iTTChitect; but it is generally from 2 ft. 6. in. to •8 in. The thickness of the brickwork of the rhiraney breast n has been usually 4 in. ; and it >3 supported upon a slightly cui-ved iron bar. Wo flue is now permitted to be built with an angle provided with proper openings, not less than 9 in. square, and proper close iron doors, and frames inserted in such openings, whereby such flue may be swept by machinery; and every salient or projecting angle within such place shall be rounded off 4 in. at least, ond shall be protected by a rounded iron bar. See Sect. 10. Book II. 119. Perhaps no parts in building, requiring great care, have been constructed with less tare than chimneys, fire places, and flues. The inside of the latter has been daubed over pith a kind of mortar, having in it a mixture of cow-dung to prevent its peeling off, but iHiich is liable to come off in sweeping. Were the form of flues circular in the plan, instead of being rectangular, as they almost always are, they would be more easily cleaned, were being then no angles for the soot to lodge in, and they would likewise draw better ; lint, in that case, a particular form of bricks must be employed, except the bricklayer could manage with the ordinary brick and Parker's cement, with which the inside should be made perfectly smooth. But since the practice of sweeping cliiraneys by climbing boys D 2