Chap. IX. FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. 489 has had down on one side, and the other smooth. The trees are almost exactly alike as well as the blossoms. 2676. Pliny states that the peach was originally brouglit from Persia, where it grows naturally, from which the name of Persica was bestowed upon it by the Romans ; and some modern botanists apply this as the generic name, separating them from the Amyg- dalus or almond, to which Linnaius had united them. 2677. Although they are not tropical, they require a great deal of warmth to bring them to perfection ; hence they seldom ripen in this country in ordinary seasons without the use of walls or glass; consequently they bear a high price. 2678. In a good peach, the flesh is firm, the skin thin, of a deep bright colour next the sun, and of a yellowish green next to the wall: the pulp is yellowish, full of highly flavoured juice, the fleshy part thick, and the stone small. Too much down is a sign of inferior quality. This fruit is much used at the dessert and makes a delicious preserve. 2679. Both the peach and the nectarine are separated into, 1. the free stone or melting peaches, those in which the pulp or flesh separates easily from the stone ; and 2. the clingstone varieties, in which the flesh clings or adheres to the stone ; the first are gene- rally the best flavoured. There are above two hundred varieties enumerated in the cata- logue of the Horticultural Society. 2680. Peaches are often cultivated in large quantities. At Montreuil, a village-near Paris, almost the whole population is employed in the growing of peaches, which has maintained the inhabitants for ages; and the consequence is, that they raise better peaches there than in any other part of France. The best in Europe are Italian. In Maryland and Virginia, peaches grow nearly wild in extensive plantations or orchards resembling forests, but the fruit is of little value for the table, being employed only in fattening hogs, and for the distillation of peach brandy. On the east side of the Andes, peaches grow wild among the corn fields, and in the mountains, and are dried as an article of food. 2681. The young leaves of the peach are sometimes used in cookery from their agree- able flavour ; and a liqueur resembling the fine noyeau of Martinique may be made by steeping them in brandy sweetened with sugar and fined with milk : gin may also be flavoured in a similar manner. The kernels of the fruit have the same flavour. 2682. The nectarine is said to have received its name from nectar, the particular drink of the gods. Though it is considered as the same species as the peach, it is not known which of the varieties came from the other : the nectarine is by some considered as the superior fruit. SunsECT. 2. —Almond (Ami/gdalus). 2683. The almond tree is a native of warmer climates than Britain, and is indigenous to the northern parts of Africa and Asia; but it is now commonly cultivated in Italy, Spain, and the south of France. It is not usually grown in Britain, and the fruit seldom ripens in this country ; it is much admired for the beauty of its blossoms. It strongly resembles the peach tree in the form of its leaves and blossoms, and is included in the same genus by botanists ; but the fruit, instead of presenting a delicious pulp like the peach, shrivels up as it ripens, and becomes only a tough coriaceous covering to the stone inclosing the eatable kernel, which is surrounded by a thin bitter skin. It flowers early in the spring, and produces fruit in August. 2684. There are two sorts of almonds, siveet and hitter, but they are considered to be only varieties of the species ; and though the qualities of the kernels are very diff'erent, they are not distinguishable by their appearance. 2685. The siveet almond {A. communis. Linn.) is much used at the dessert and in con- fectionery. The Valentia almond is sweet, large, and flat pointed at one extremity, and compressed in the middle. The Italian almonds are not so sweet, smaller, and less de- pressed in the middle. The Syrian or Jordan almonds come from Malaga, and are the best sweet almonds brought to England. They are longer, flatter, less pointed at one end, and less round at the other, and have a paler cuticle than those just mentioned. Almonds are not considered to be very digestible. The brown skin easily comes ofi" by pressing with the fingers when they are put into boiling water: they are then dried till they are brittle, and the interior part being white, they are then said to be blanched. This skm or pellicle sometimes disagrees with the stomach, and, on that account, almonds, when brought on the table as dessert, ought to be blanched. 2686. Wlien analysed, 91 parts of sweet almonds are found to consist of .54 parts of fixed oil; 3 of gum ; 24 vegetable albumen; 6 saccharine matter; 4 woody fibre ; 3 of water, and a trace of acetic acid. 2687. The bitter almond {A. amarus, Linn.) has, like the sweet, no smell when entire; but when bruised in a mortar it has the odour of the peach blossom, and the taste is the pleasant one of the peach kernel, a property which occasions its use in flavouring many preparations. 2688. Though bitter almonds do not contain prussic acid ready formed, they contain two principles, amygdaliii and emulsin, which, when acting on each other by means of water during distillation, produce prussic acid and a volatile oil, both violent poisons: and when