VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Chap. VII. 453 combustible, giving out much smoke, swims on water, and is scarcely dissolved by it, though it is easily by alcohol. Camphor exists in a greater or less quantity in the roots, branches, and leaves of many plants, particularly in the essential oils, as the oils of rosemary, marjoram, sage, and lavender. But what is brought to this country, and used in medicine, is procured by distillation from the roots and smaller branches of the Laurus camphora and Suma- traisis. From its volatility it is soon dissipated when exposed to the air ; and if inclosed in a glass vessel, its vapour crystallises on the inside. When thus diffused through the air, it acts as a poison to many insects ; hence its use in defending clothes from moths. It is poisonous to all animals taken into the stomach in large quantities, although, like many other poisons, it is useful in very small quantities when employed medicinally. Sect. XIV. TANNIN, OR TANNIC ACID. 2377. Tannic acid has been frequently named the astringent principle, and is very abun- dant in the barks of trees, and in all plants that are of an astringent nature. It exists abundantly in the bark of oak, and in large quantity in the excrescences called gall nuts on several species of oak. It is found also plentifully in tea, sumach, and whortleberries; but in these it is always associated with gallic acid: in catechu and cinchona bark it exists in the greatest abundance, and without gallic acid. When tannic acid is prepared quite pure, it is highly astringent, and soluble both in water and alcohol. It is white, and without odour, but on exposm-e to air it becomes brown, as it is generally seen. Though it is itself soluble in water and alcohol, it has the useful property of forming with gelatine a compound not soluble in water; in fact, rendering gelatine, which is a very soluble sub- stance, insoluble ; hence the use of bark in making leather. 2378. To make leather, skins, which consist almost entirely of gelatine, are steeped in the tan pit with a quantity of bark chiefly of the oak ; they thus become converted, by com- bination with the tannin, into a substance insoluble in water, and this, after going through certain operations, constitutes that useful material leather, which is no longer liable to putrescence. A great deal of tannic acid exists also in red port and in coffee. Dr. Thomson is of opinion that tannic acid, like most other vegetable substances, is suscep- tible of difl'erent modifications, and that what is procured from different plants is not exactly of the same quality independently of the quantity. 100 parts of tannic acid are composed of carbon, 52-69 ; oxygen, 43-45; and hydrogen, 3-86. By some it is ai-ranged among the vegetable acids. Sect. XV. COLOURING MATTER. 2379. Peculiar substances exist in vegetables called colouring matter ; but this rarely or never occurs in an insulated state, being always attached to some other proximate principle, such as mucilaginous, resinous, or other substances, by which their solubility is affected. For these see Chap. XI. Book XVII. " Dyeing." Sect. XVI. VEGETABLE ACIDS. 2380. Acids form a class of substances having peculiar properties. They are sour to the taste, and iheij change vegetable blues to red. The latter property is the surest and most delicate test, for it may happen that an acid may be diluted so much with water, that its soui-ness is not sensible to the taste ; but if a little of the decoction of red cabbage, which is blue, be dropped into it, the colour will instantly be changed to red : or if pieces of paper dyed with vegetable blue be dipped into a liquid supposed to contain an acid, the same change will be eflfected. Paper coloured blue by litmus is kept by chemists for this purpose, under the name of litmus test paper. 2381. Another property possessed by acids is, that when they are united to an alkali, salts are formed that are neither acid nor alkaline, and hencd called neutral salts. The acid and alkali in this case are said to neutralise each other. 2382. Of acids, some are formed by chemical action among mineral bodies, as nitric acid, sulphuric acid, &c.; these are called mineral acids; but at present we propose con- sidering only sucli of the vegetable acids as exist ready formed in plants, and which enter mto the composition of materials employed as food. 2383. The researches of modern chemistry of late have greatly added to the number of vegetable acids ; but some are extremely rare, and could only find a place in a system of G g 3