1009 DYEING. Chap. XI. to 100°, when the silk, previously aliimed, should be dipped in, and continued till it has acquired the proper colour. Chalk or pearlash -will deepen the tint. 5946. Cotton and linen are dyed yellow by a mordant of acetate of alumina, prepared by dissolving one part of acetate of lead and three parts alum in a sufficient quantity of water. The cloth is to be soaked for two hours in this solution heated to 100°, wrung out and dried, and the soaking and drying may be repeated; it is then barely wetted with lime- water, and dried. If the colour is wished to be very bright and durable, the soaking and wetting with lime-water should be repeated several times ; the lime makes the dye more permanent. The dyeing bath is prepared by putting quercitron bark into cold water with the cloth, then bringing this gradually to a boiling heat; but after this the cloth must only remain a few minutes, lest the colour should acquire a shade of brown. 5947. Nankeen yellow is dyed by a solution of red sulphate of iron, which is combined with the cloth by carbonate of potash. ScTBSECT. 7. — Dyeing red Colours, 5948. The colouring matters employed for dyeing red are, kermes, cochineal, archil, madder, carthamus, Brazil wood, lac, and logwood. Kermes is a species of insect, but it does not afford so fine a colour as cochineal, another insect; both are from America. Cochineal is the most precious of all our dyeing drugs, affording the scarlet crimson, and from it the finest carmine is obtained. It was found in use among the Mexicans, on the discovery of America; and it was the beauty of its colour, as displayed in their furniture, ornaments, and cotton cloth, which attracted attention. At first it was supposed to be the seed of a plant, appearing in the form of small shrivelled grains ; but it was afterwards ascertained to be a species of insect, called Coccus cacti, from its feeding on the Cactus opientia, or prickly pear. The best cochineal is still produced in Mexico, though it is now also brought from India and other tropical countries. There are varieties of the insect, affording dyes of different qualities ; the dye from the wild insect is inferior to what is produced from those kept in gardens. Lately it has been introduced into Cadiz, where it is reared in a botanic garden, and promises to succeed in that climate. Archil is a paste made by pounding a species of lichen (^Rocella tinctorial with stale urine. Madder is the root of a well-known plant. Carthamus is a flower cultivated in Spain ; and the Levant. It contains two colouring matters ; one yellow, which is soluble in water; the other red, which is insoluble in water, but soluble in alkaline carbonates, as I carbonate of soda. Brazil wood is the wood of a tree growing in America and the West Indies; its decoction is a fine red colour. Lac is the production of an Indian insect. The decoction of it gives a fine deep crimson. Lnywood, called also Campeachy wood, grows in the bay of Campeachy and Jamaica. It gives out a colour to alcohol, but sparingly to water. None of the red colouring matters have so strong an affinity for cloth as to form ; a dye without a mordant. 5949. Wool may he dyed red by any of these, according to the shade required. Cochi- neal gives the brightest crimson; the best mordant is nitro-muriate of tin (chloride of 1 tin). Scarlet is a compound of crimson and yellow ; and to produce a bright scarlet, the I cloth must first be dyed yellow by means of any of the yellow dyes, and then plunged i into a bath of cochineal with tartar and nitro-muriate of tin (chloride of tin). For 1 common crimsons, alum is used as a mordant, and the dye cochineal; or if pale crimson, ; a little madder may be added to some cochineal. 5950. Silk is dyed red, with cochineal, carthamus, or Brazil wood ; madder is not bright > enotigh. Archil is used when the colour is to be lilac. Silk cannot be dyed a fiill scar- 1 let; but a colour approaching to it may be given, by first impregnating the silk with I murio-sulphate of tin, and afterwards dyeing it in a bath composed of four parts cochineal, and four of quercitron. Crimson may be given by cochineal alone ; and poppy and rose Iby an alkaline solution of carthamus, to which lemon-juice has been added. 5951. Cotton and linen are dyed red with madder. The colour is called Turkey red, I because first brought from the Levant. It was introduced into Glasgow in 1810 by a Frenchman, M. Papillon, and that city has ever since been famous for dyeing that colour. The cloth is first impregnated with oil, then with galls, and lastly with alum ; it is then 'boiled for an hour in a decoction of madder, and plunged into a ley of soda to heighten ■ the colour. The application of the mordant is difficult, but the colour produced is per- manent. Cotton may be dyed scarlet by means of murio-sulphate of tin, cochineal, and quercitron bark, but the colour is fading. StmsECT. 8. — Dyeing black Colours. 5952. The substances employed to give a black colour to cloth arc red oxide of iron and tan, which have a strong affinity for each other. Logwood is used as an auxiliary, as it adds to the fulness of the black. Cloth, before it receives a black colour, is usually dyed 3 T