ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 796 Book X. Sect. II. PHESERVING FRUIT AND VEGETABLES BY SCALDING, AND BY M. APPERT'S METHODS. 4563. Scalding fruit has been employed with success to render their keeping more certain, and is therefore very useful in preparing them for house or sea store. Ill 180B, the Society of Arts gave a premium to Thomas Saildington for communicating the following procesB for preserving fruit without sugar: —Fill some stone wide-mouthed bottles with tlie fruit picked carefully, and set them in a copper or large kettle, then fill the kettle with cold water nearly up to the mouths of the bottles. Corks should be prepared to fit the bottles, and a cloth should be put under the bottoms of the bottles to prevent their breaking with the heat. Light the fire under the kettle, and heat the water to 160° or 170°. This heat should be continued for about half an hour, when the fruit will be sufficiently scalded. After that, fill up the bottles with boiling water to within an inch of the cork, and cork them tight The bottles should now be laid on their sides, where they are to be kept. During the first month or two it will be necessary to turn the bottles round once or twice a week, and occasionally afterwards to prevent the fermentation that will take place with some fruits from forming into a mouldy crust. Fruit preserved in this manner will keep at sea, even in hot climates. I'he fruits that may be preserved in this way are apricots, gooseberries, currants, raspberries, cherries, plums, Orleans, egg or damson, greengages, and also rhubarb cut into small square pieces- But the most juicy fruits, such as currants, mulberries, strawberries, and raspberries, are not so well calculated for this purpose. In this process the heat seems to act by coagulating and rendering insoluble and inactive a kind of gluten, which is a principal agent in the commencement of fermentation. In the old proces.'i, we are sometimes directed not to cork or tie up the vessels till they are quite cool, by which it now appears a very great advantage was lost. 4564. Some fruits may be preserved in a succulent state by being kept in water with- out boiling. This is practised with regard to the cranberry ; it also succeeds with the smaller kinds of apples. 4565. But the method used by M. Appert, and which we described as the most per- fect mode of preserving animal food, succeeds equalhj with vegetables and fruit of all kinds. There is only this diiference, that the vegetables and fruit need not first be parboiled as in the case of animal food ; as they are not dressed, they must be treated in cooking them as raw vegetables. 4566. The following fruits and their juices are preserved in this manner ; white and red currants in bunches or stripped ; cherries, raspberries, mulberries, &c. apricots, peaches, nectarines, and plums of all kinds; likewise pears peeled and cut in quarters with their pips taken out. These fruits are put into strong wide-mouthed glass bottles, corked with the greatest care, and luted over with a cement made of lime and soft cheese, spread on linen, and bound down with wire. The bottles are then inclosed separately in canvas bags and put into a kettle of water, which is gradually heated till it boils ; thej' are thus kept until it is presumed that the fruit is as it were boUed in its own juice ; the whole is then left to cool, and the bottles are examined to see that they are secure before they are put away for store. 4567. Gay Lussac had found before M. Appert that the juice of the grape, or of any other fruit, may be preserved by boiling it for a short time without sugar, and secluding it from contact of air. This prevents fermentation. Grape syrup is much used on the Continent. ■■)4G8. M. Appert's vielhod of preserving the following vegetables : Asparagus—They are first plunged into boiling water, and then into cold water, to take away their peculiar sharpness. The stalks are placed in the jars with great care, the heads downwards ; the jars put into the water-bath only till the water boils. Windsor beans are gathered when small, and put into bottles immediately, as th"; skins turn brown by keeping; one hour in the water-hath. They may also be stripped of their skins, if that is preferred. French beans The pods put into bottles; if very large, cut in pieces ; an hour and a half in the waler- ' Artichokes The stools and very few leaves first plunged into boiling, and then into cold water; after draining, they are h.nlf dressed by being placed over the fire in a saueepan with butter and seasoning herbs. When cold, they are bottled, and placed in the water-bath half an hour. Carrols, cabbages, turnips, piirsneps, onions, potatoes, celery, shardoons, jrrffipo(, and generally all vege- tables, may be preserved, cither simply scalded or parboiled ; put into bottles, and then into the water-bath °^Grce^n'peas may also be kept fresh by M. Appert's method ; but they are the most difficult of all the ordinary vegetables to preserve completely. If gathered too young, they dissolve into water; and if they are kept several days before they are bottled, they lose all their flavour, become hard, and ferment, sometimes so as to burst the bottles. They are often very well preserved simply by putting them into well-corked bottles and burying them in a trench in the ground, taking care to invert the bottles. Sometimes they are scalded, drained dried in cloths, spread in plates. nnA put into a cool oven, and afterwards hung up in p.ipcr liag.s to harden ; in which case they must be snaked before they are used. Rut no method will preserve entirely the sweet n.'ivour and marrowy substiince of the young pea. ]\I. Appert's method, however, is the best. 40(i!). The following fruits arc usually kept in shops preserved in bottles : — Cherries Moselle cherries Red curr.ants Black currants Raspberries Gooseberries Russian and Swedish cranberries American cranberries Greengages Damsons Preserved green peas in tins. Sect. III. PRESERVING VEGETABLES BY DRYING COMPLETELY. 4570. Many vegetables, except those which are extremely succulent, may be preserved by drying. For this purpose they should be well cleaned and spread upon the floor of an oven or kihi and dried by a gentle and gradual heat, taking care that the heat be not so great as to scorch them. Tlie thicker sorts of roots, as carrots, turnips, potatoes, &c. should be