41'* ON FOOD. Book VII. lowers plaice being chiefly caught in the Dowers, or on the flats in the sea between i'olkestonc and Hastings, weighing from one to live and six pounds. On the coast of Holland they are obtained considerably larger, and are known here as Dutch plaice • some ot them have been even eighteen pounds. Like all ground fish they are verv tenacious of life, and therefore keep well. SuBSECT. 7. — The Hollibut {Plcuroneclcs hippoghssus, Linn.). 2150. This is the largest of our flat fish, being sometimes found of the weight of two or three hundred pounds, and in the seas of Iceland and Newfoundland much larger. Its flesh is extremely white, and, when small, they are thought by some to be nearly as fine as turbot; but when they are large, the flesh is coarse and dry, and is not much esteemed having little flavour. In some parts of Scotland this is called the turbot, which often occasions mistakes with English people. In the London market it appears in March and April, and its flesh is sold in slices by the pound at a low price. StTBSECT. 8.— The common Cod (Gadus Morhua, Linn.). 2151. This is one of the most important of the finny tribe, from the excellence of the food which it supplies, and its prodigious abundance. It is an ocean fish, confined to cold climates, and found only in the northern parts of the world. It is supposed to reside chiefly between the latitudes of 66° and 45°. Those taken north and south of these lati- tudes are either few in number, or bad in quality. As far north as Greenland they are small and emaciated ; and they do not reach so far south as the Mediterranean, where they are unknown. The great resort of this fish is on the banks of Newfoundland, and the other sand-banks that lie ofi' the coasts of Cape Breton, Nova Scotia, and New England, where they find food in the worms produced in these sandy bottoms. They are also taken on the south and west coasts of Iceland, on the coasts of Norway, in the Baltic, and ofl" the Orkneys and western islands of Scotland. The principal fisheries which at present supply the London market with fresh cod are hollows between the Dogger bank, the Well bank, and Cromer on the east coast of England. The fish caught there separates, when cut, in fine large flakes; it is brought alive to London in well-boats. The fishermen seldom find any cod or other round fish on the bank itself, but upon the sloping edges and hollows con- tiguous to it. The shifting sand on the top of the bank affords them no subsistence ; and the shallow agitated water allows them no rest. Inhabiting deep water, they are taken only with lines and hooks. A great deal is caught ofl' Scarborough. They are also taken in great plenty on the coast of Scotland, and the north-east coast of Ireland. Mr. Yarrell, in his " History of British Fishes," mentions the two principal varieties of cod in the market, as Dogger bank and Scotch cod. The first has a sharp nose, with the body of a dark brown colour ; the second has a round blunt nose, and the body of a light yellowish ash green. The first is most esteemed. 2152. In our seas the cod fish begins to spaivn in December, and they continue to deposit their eggs on rough rocky ground till the end of February, when they become poor. Some continue in the roe till the beginning of AprU ; they are, therefore, a winter fish, being in high season about Christmas. They recover from their spawning sooner than any other fish, and it is common to talce some cod all the summer. They are amazingly prolific. Leewenhoek counted several millions of eggs in the roe of one cod fish of middling size, a degree of increase that must render them inexhaustible by human means. They are in highest perfection in the winter, and they keep well ; but the glutinous parts about the head, so highly prized by gastronomes, lose their delicate flavour after the fish has been twenty-four hours out of the water. The cod is sometimes found of a very large size, weighing as much as sixty poimds ; thirty pounds is not uncommon, but about twenty- five pounds is the usual size of a well-conditioned fish ; about six or eight pounds is the best for the table ; but they are taken of all sizes from that to one pound, ^^^len below a pound they are called codlings; the smaller ones are apt to be soft and watery. They are selected by their plumpness and roundness, especially near the tail; by the depth of the pit behind the head ; and by the regular appearance of the sides, as if they were ribbed. 2153. The cod is particularly finn and rich when in season, which is known by layers of white curdy matter between its flakes when boiled. It is likewise extremely nutritious and light. When just killed, and in season, the gills are red, the neck thick, the flesh firm, and the eyes bright. The firmness of the fish is much improved by crimping. The milt of the cod, or soft roc, is brought to table as a garnish, but, from its oily nature, is not fit for delicate stomachs. 2154. What is called the sound in cod-fish is the air-bladder, or swimming-bladder, bj means of which the fish is enabled to rise or sink in the water. The fish has the power of compressing this bladder ; and then the air within it is condensed, in consequence of which its specific gravity, and therefore that of the whole fish, becomes heavier than