BREWING. (Chap. III. 585 ; appearances he may observe those scientific principles which he has learned, and not whinnsical and unfounded r reasoning. SuBSECT. 6. — Receipts for Domestic Brewing. 3300. TTie follotoing are receipts hy which domestic brewing has been successfully per- i formed on a small scale, and which will help to illustrate certain variations in the methods I employed by different persons. 3301. To bretc three bushels of matt into ale alone This quantity of malt will make thirty-six gallons of ale. Procure a cask that will hold thirty-six gallons, or a little more, and put as many pails as will equal that quantity into the copper to boil. When brought to a proper heat, put half of it on the malt in the mash tub, and let it remain the proper time, having covered up the tub. When the mash has remained about three hours, run the wort off. Put the rest of the warmed water on the mash to extract a second quantity of wort; let this remain an hour, and run off the wort. Add some more water to allow for what has been lost by evaporation, and what has been absorbed by the malt, to make up the quantity of thirty-six gallons. Mix the worts together; boil the usual time, and add the hops. When the wort has boiled sufficiently, cool, and having added a quart of yeast put the whole into the fermenting vat. The time of fermenting must depend upon the weather, and other circumstances. When the fermentation is over, put the ale into the cask for slow fermentation; when this is finished, the cask must be bunged. 3302. To make ale and table beer from four bushels qf malt— The first mash will make the ale, and the second and third the table beer : these are to be fermented separately. To the mash for table beer ten pounds of sugar may be added. The ale may be boiled with four pounds of hops, or more if it be preferred rather bitter, and to be fermented the usual time according to circumstances The table beer is to be treated in the same manner. After this they should be put into casks to cleanse, which will probably require fourteen hours or more. About two pints of yeast will be sufficient for the whole of the fermentation. When the cleansing is over, the casks are to be bunged. 3303. To make ale ami weak table beer from two bushels qf malt. — Choose pale malL Add about twenty gallons of water sufficiently warmed to the malt in the mash tub. Stir well, and let the whole remain quiet for an hour. Run off the wort clear, and it is to be observed that the quantity of wort will not equal the quantity of water poured on the mash, much being retained by the malt. Make a second mash by adding fifteen gallons more of water. Mix the two mashes together for the ale, and add twenty gallons of water for a third mash for the beer. The ale will require three pounds of hops to be boiled with it for twenty minutes or half an hour. The wort is then to be put into coolers cooled down to 96°, and then fermented by a quart of yeast. When the fermentation is finished, cleanse .is before; about twenty gallons of good ale will be obtained. The wort for the table beer must be treated similarly. 3304. One bushel and a half of malt is a convenient small brewing, and it will give eighteen gallons of ale, and also some table beer. Much smaller quantities may be brewed, and some have recommended even four ^r five gallons; but the trouble is the same, and the larger quantity will keep best. For this purpose,a copper will be required that holds at least twenty-two gallons, and a mash tub that will hold about twenty- eight gallons ; also three nine-gallon casks will be required. When two of these are empty, a fresh brewing may be begun. The expense of such a brewing has been calculated thus : — £ J. d. Copper and setting - - 2 10 0 Mash tub . . - - 0 14 0 Two pails . . - - 0 6 0 Sieve - - 0 2 6 Bowl . . . - 0 1 G Spigot, &c. - - . Three nine-gallon casks . 0 1 0 - 0 18 0 4 13 0 The mode of proceeding is so exactly the same as we have described that we need not repeat it; and the quantities of water, hops, may be in proportion. 3305. Brewing on a still siniUler scale may be effected ; such as was commonly performed by the agricultural labourers, before the present duty was laid on malt. A nine-gallon cask of beer may be easily brewed with very few utensils, all of which will not cost more than forty shillings ; a portable boiler, a mashing tub that answers also for a fermenting tub, and a shallow tub or two for coolers. If the boiler is portable, the whole of the brewing may be dune out of doors. Sect. V. OF VARIOUS INGREDIENTS SOMETIMES ADDED TO MAIT LIQUORS CHIEFLY FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADULTERATION. 3306. Mall, hops, and water are the only materials permitted by the legislature to be used in manufacturing malt liquor for sale : and this strict enactment was made, on account of a practice which had formerly prevailed of their employing various other ingredients, some of which were destructive to health. At present the introduction of any other substances than those named above is illegal, whether harmless, or highly deleterious. The public brewer is thus restricted from experimenting on various improvements that might he made ; nevertheless the regulation is salutary; since, were there no other reason, the ignorance of some brewers and retailers of the properties of the substances they might use would no doubt occasion our beverages to be converted frequently into poisons. 3307. From common report it is generally supposed that malt liquors which are retailed are sometimes adulterated by various illegal ingredients ; but whether introduced surrep- titiously by brewers or publicans it is impossible to determine. On the truth of this opinion, we do not pretend to decide, and we believe that many brewers as well as retailers are too conscientious to be guilty of such practices. Some substances prohibited are, in small quantities, useful in correcting defects in the liquors, and are innocuous ; others again, if introduced at all, ai-e so with fraudulent views, to save the expense of the proper materials or for other objects, and are exceedingly detrimental ; most of the latter are of an intoxicating quality and injurious to the human constitution ; these are of such a nature