Chap. III. CANDLES. 141 ■where economy is considered: mould candles, thougli having a better appearance, and being less liable to run, do not give quite so good a light. 659. TJie wicks of candles are usually made of cotton, which is found to be the best material: other materials have been tried, but -without producing any improvement. Some have thought it advantageous to steep the cotton previously in lime -water, in which there has been dissolved a considerable quantity of saltpetre. They should be well dried after this before the tallow is put to them. Candles so prepared are said to alFord a clearer flame, and give a more brilliant light; the combustion of the wick is so complete as to render the snuffing of them nearly superfluous : and they do not ran or gutter. 660. If a candle be kept inclining at an angle of 45°, fig. 104., it will require no snuffing, because the upper extremity of the wick, coming into contact with the atmosphere, as ;n the case of a wax candle, is burnt to ashes. But an objection to this is, that the candle is apt to run, and drop, except very well managed, and the unsightly appearance will prevent it from being adopted, except on particular occasions, when the fact may be made useful. 661. Snuffers, so essential a domestic implement for cleanliness and safety, in all classes of society, are, in the present day, of great variety of forms and prices. Some ancient snuffers, made of brass of very clumsy construction, have been preserved ; a figure of one of which may be seen Fig. 104. in Hone's" Every Day Book," and another in Hutchin's "History of Dor- setshire." At present, snutfers are made of brass, and of wrought iron ; immense numbers are also cast immediately from the pig-metal, which, being subsequently annealed to render them softer, are filed, polished with emery, or burnished, so as to look very well ; and as the cutting edge does not soon wear away, they are not ill adapted for use. The best polished snuffers are made of cast steel, which has been decarbonated that it may bear being worked with the hammer, and thus at the same time retain that compactness of grain which enables steel to take so beautiful a polish. Snuffers are, in reality, a kind of scissors, constructed to cut off the excrescence which accumulates on the wick of the candle during combustion, retaining the snuflf in a box or cavity. In the very cheap snufi'ers made of cast iron, there is no contrivance to prevent them from opening, and letting the snuflr fall out; but all the best sorts have a coiled spring fixed in a cell in the shanks where the rivet is placed, to keep the box closed by the cutter when it is not in use. This spring, however, is sometimes so unpleasantly powerful as to cause the snuffers to open with difficulty, or it becomes too weak to answer its purpose. There are many contrivances inventad to obviate these inconveniences. Hobday's patent snuffers, by the rising and falling of a steel slide or cutter, hides and retains the snuff in the box. The only objection to this ingenious method is the dis- agreeable snap of the machinery whenever it is used: it, however, effectually answers the intended purpose. 662. S7iuffer trays are made of various materials. The cheapest are japanned. They are also of silver, and plated, and of papier-machce. Some are made of polished steel, having various ornaments etched upon them. Sect. IX. KELATIVE QUANTITIES OF LIGHT FROM VARIOUS CANDLES AND LAMPS. 66.3. Various experiments have been made, with a view to determine the relative quan- tities of light afforded by the combustion of different materials in candles and in lamps. In these experiments economy has been chiefly considered ; but in choosing bet-«'een candles and lamps, many other circumstances present themselves to our notice: such as the great portability of the former, and their small heating power, as well as the small expense and variety of candlesticks compared with that of lamps. Lamps that burn the oil with smoke are intolerable in good apartments : and Argand's lamps, which consume their smoke, are too expensive for ordinary purposes. On the other hand, where much light is required, and portability is not an object, Argand's lamps have a decided advantage in giving no smoke ; and their light is then economical. 664. It was observed by Count Rumfurd that the relative weight of the undermentioned inflammable substances, required to produce an equal degree of light, is as follows : — A good wax candle, kept well snuffed, and burning with a clear bright flame - 100 A good tallow candle, kept well snuffed, and burning with a bright flame - - 101 The same tallow candle, burning very dim for want of snuffing ... 229 Olive oil burned in an Argand's lamp - - - - - - - - HO The same burnt in a common lamp, with a clear bright flame - - - . 129 Rape oil, burnt in the same manner -12.5 Linseed oil, burnt in the same manner - - - - - - - -120