1012 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. and quercitron bark, or weld ; various tints being produced by the mixture of these and the use of the various mordants. !i97\. Previous to the printing, the cloth as it comes from the loom is prepared by dressing, ■which consists in passing the cloth very rapidly over a cylinder of copper heated intensely, or over a broad flame of gas. It is next steeped for twenty-four hours in a weak alkaline lye, and then boiled in a solution of potash, which is termed ashing, and afterwards well washed. It is next subjected to the process called souring, which consists in immersing the cloth in water containing a twenty-fifth part of sulphuric acid. Singeing and calen- dering are rendered particularly necessary where the printing is by blocks, in order to render the surface smooth to receive a good impression. 5972. Inventing and drawing patterns for calico-printing employ artists of a peculiar class, who are continually engaged in this business, and the variety produced is immense, to satisfy the perpetual changes produced by fashion. Hitherto our artists have been inferior to those of France and Germany, where the arts of ornamental design have been paid more attention to ; but now that there is a national establishment for teaching design as applied to manufactures, it is to be hoped that we will no longer be reproached with inferiority. The designs, when finished, are cut on wooden blocks, or engraved on copper, according to the kind of printing. 5973. The blocks hij which the mordants are applied are usually made of wood, but some- times the pattern is cut out of thick plates of brass or copper, fixed firmly to the wood. The printer takes the block into his hand, and presses it down firmly upon the cloth, taking care to be very accurate, applying it regularly and to keep the pattern uniform and properly joined. Sometimes, instead of printing from the wooden blocks, stereotype casts are made from the blocks, and these are used for printing. Wlien several colours are required, so many blocks are prepared, each to print the separate colours ; when a small quantity of one colour is introduced, that is often added by a hair pencil. 5974. What is called resist work is another mode of conducting the process the reverse of what has been described. The pattern is then printed on the cloth with a paste which resists the dye colour, when the goods are immersed in the dye vat, so that the groimds only are dyed, the pattern remaining white. This process is practised in cases where the ground is intended to be blue. 5975. Discharge work is another variety of calico-printing. Here the cloth is first dyed uniformly with some vegetable colour, as Brazil wood ; it is next dyed black with an iron colour. The cloth is then washed and calendered, when it will appear uniformly black: but in order to produce a pattern, this is printed with a peculiar solution of tin, which has the effect of discharging the iron black dye, and rendering the crimson colour of the Brazil wood visible. 5976. Another method consists in printing upon Turkey red, or any dyed colour, some powerful acid, and then immersing the cloth in a solution of chloride of lime. Neither of these agents singly affects the colour, but those parts which have received the acid, on being plunged in chloride of lime, are speedily deprived of their dye, and made white by the acid of the liberated chlorine. An addition to this invention was made by Mr. James Thomson, near Clitheroe : the acid is combined with some mordant, or metallic oxide, capable, after the dyed colour was removed, of having imparted to it some other colour. This laid the foundation of that series of processes in which the chromic acid and its combinations have since been employed with such great success. We have mentioned the original method of printing calicoes by means of blocks, which is still practised to a certain extent: but of late many great improvements have been made in all parts of the processes, and particularly in that of printing. 5977. To produce more delicate patterns than could be produced by wooden WocAs, copper plates were engraved and calicoes printed by the usual process of copper-plate printing: but the mode of printing by these was tedious, as well as that by block ; in each, the patterns had to be applied 448 times in a single piece of calico that was twenty-eight yards in length. ...» 5978. The grand improvement in the art was the invention of cylinder printing in 1785. In this the pattern is engraved upon the surface of cylinder, which is covered with the proper colours, is rolled over the cloth, producing an impression in a rapid manner, and much more accurately than by blocks or plates. The detailed description of this process we extract from Mr. Raines's excellent work " On the Cotton Manufacture." A polished copper cylinder, several feet in length (according to the width of the piece to be printed), is engraved witli a pattern round its wliole circumference, and from end to end. It is then placed horizontally in a press, and as it revolves, the lower part of the circumference passes through the colouring mutter, which is again removed from the surface of the cylinder, except the engraved pattern, by an elastic steel blade, placed in contact with the cylinder, and reduced tx) so fine and straiglit an edge as to take off the colour without scratching the copper. Tlie colour being thus left only in the engraved pattern, the piece of calico or muslin is drawn tightly over the cylinder, which revolves in the same