Book VII. 308 ON FOOD. SuBSEOT. 11 Shell. 1808. Shells of eggs, of ot/sters, mussels, periwinkles, and other animals of the moUuscoiui class, differ from hone in consisting of carbonate of lime, or the same substance as chalk, witli a little animal matter: when they are burned in the fire they give a very pure qiiiekluue. A few shells contain also a little phosphate of lime. The crustaceous coverings of crabs, lobsters, &c., consist of phosphate of lime and car- bonate of lime, with a little animal matter. Sdbsect. 12.—Internal Organs. 1809. The various internal organs, as the heart, lungs usually called lights, liver, sweet- bread, kidneys, Sfc, consist of fibrin, gelatine, albumen, &c. in ditFerent proportions, according to the particular organs, which, intermixed with blood-vessels and nerves, are too various to describe in detail. The heart, liver, and kidneys, are not of such easy digestion as meat in general: but the sweetbread is a favourite dish for convalescents. Few things are so readily digested as tripe, which is the stomach of ruminating animals, as the cow. 1810. It is proper to mention that eminent physicians have stated it as a well-known fact that " the bodies of animals who are diseased are capable of communicating fatal diseases to the humau species; " and Dr. Paris observes, that "experience has shown that such animal poison is particularly energetic in those parts that are commonly called the offals, in which term are included the intestines." To account for the deleterious changes of which those parts appear to be occasionally susceptible, it is not in the least necessary to suppose that the animal died in a state of disease. We are informed by Dr. Kerner of Wurtemburg that the smoked sausages, which constitute so favourite a repast in his country, often cause fatal poisoning. In one instance thirty-seven persons died out of seventy-six who had eaten them ; and, though the most able chemists analysed the meats, no trace of any known poison could be discovered. The following details respecting this remarkable fact are from Professor Graham's work on " Chemistry." " In Wurtemberg the sausages are prepared from very various materials. Blood, liver, bacon, brains, milk, bread and meal, are mixed together with salt and spices ; the mixture is then put into bladders or intestines, and, after being boiled, is smoked. When these sausages are well prepared they may be preserved for months, and furnish a nourishing savoury food : but when the spices and salt are deficient, and particularly when they are smoked too late, or not sufficiently, they undergo a peculiar kind of putrefaction, which begins at the centre of the sausage. Without any appreciable escape of gas taking place, they become paler in colour, and more soft and greasy in those parts which have undergone putrefaction, and they are found to contain free lactic acid or lactate of ammonia, — products which are universally formed during the putrefaction of animal and vegetable matters. The death which is the consequence of poisoning by putrefied sausages succeeds very lingering and remarkable symptoms. There is a gradual wasting of muscular fibre, and of all the constituents of the body similarly composed. Sausages, in the state here described, exercise an action upon the organism, in consequence of the stomach and other parts with which they come in contact not having the power to arrest their decomposition: and entering the blood in some way or other, while still possessing their whole power, they impart their peculiar action to the constituents of that fluid." Similar effects have occurred in Paris ; and it has been conjectured that animal matter in peculiar states of disease or decomposition may constitute an actual poison, hitherto not understood, and only evinced by casual effects. Sir Benjamin Brodie has remarked that on several occasions he has met with evidence of the acrid and poisonous nature of " dog's meat," as sold in the streets of London, which manifested itself by producing ulcerations of a peculiar and distinct character on the hands, accompanied by swellings in the axilla. Sect. III. ANIMALS USED FOR FOOD CONSIDERED AS INFLUENCED BY SIZE, AGE, SEX, SEASON. MODES OF FEEDING, ETC. 1811. Size. —As a general rule, the flesh of the largest animals is, as might be expected, of a large fibre, or, as it is called, coarser in the grain, and less palatable than that of smaller animals. The flesh of the elephant and rhinoceros have been found to be very coarse, but we know little of their properties, being scarcely known as food. Even the larger kind of oxen afibrds coarser beef than the smaller breeds. Mutton is more delicate, in general, than beef: and, descending to much smaller animals, mice are said to be parti- cularly good eating. The same observation will apply to birds and fish; the larger, in general, being the coarsest food, and the smaller more delicate and tender: but it does not