I Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. 831 4720. Stewpans are likewise made of cast-iron; these answer for stewing as well as those 1 of copper, and are much cheaper at first, though they do not look so handsome in the 1 kitchen as copper kept bright. Many cooks dislike them, and the same observations ■ -which we made on iron saucepans apply to these. A certain thickness of metal appears to 1 be necessary for stewpans; for in a common tin saucepan, the cooks say it is very difficult t to prevent burning to. Stewpans are made a little rounded at the edges of the bottoms, I and not angular like tin saucepans, and therefore they are thus more easily cleaned out. 4721. Stock pots are strong kitchen boilers for stewing meat into gravies and broths in French cookery, 672. They are generally made of copper, but have lately been manu- factured of cast-iron rendered malleable ; these are blacked outside, well tinned inside, and answer the same purpose as copper vessels, with the advantages of greater cheapness and wholesomeness. They may be purchased of various sizes, price from 14s. to 36s. 4722. On the Cotilinent, earthenware vessels f'S 672. dj-g preferred for stewing, not only on account I of their low prices, but because, being worse conductors of heat than metals, they confine ! it better, and are less apt to burn to. Count Rumford endeavoured to improve cooking ■ vessels of this kind, and several specimens were deposited at the Royal Institution, but I from various causes, they have never found their way into common use ; and we are at ] present nearly destitute of earthenware vessels of the proper quality for stewing, and of : such price as would render them attainable by the poorer classes. 4723. The Bain Marie, or water bath, (in Latin Balneum marice) is an apparatus. Jig. 673., extensively employed in nice culinary 673. operations, particularly by French cooks, and now generally by English cooks, who have corrupted the name, oddly enough, into Bam- bury. It is made of copper, kept nearly full of water, and heated over a stove, or by steam ; it is thus described by the renowned M. Ude : " The bain marie is a flat vessel containing boiling water; you put all your stewpans into the water, and keep that water always very hot, but it must not boil. The effect of this is to keep every dish warm without altering either the quantity or quality. When I had the honour of serving a nobleman in this' ; country, who kept a very extensive hunting establishment, and the hour of dinner was consequently uncertain, I was in the habit of using the bain marie, as a certain means of preserving the flavour of all my dishes. If you keep your sauce, or broth, or soup by t the fire-side, the soup reduces and becomes too strong, and the sauce thickens as well as reduces." This is the best method of warming up soups and similar things. 4724. Hot plates are a modem improvement used for stewing and boiling. The hot plate is merely a large plate of cast-iron, a, b, Jig. 674., laid hollow on a raised hearth, and having a closed fire burning under it, and traversing in a serpentine manner, by which the plate is heated excessively, and indeed sometimes made almost red hot. Upon this plate the various stewpans, saucepans, &c. are set, and the heat is sufiicient to keep them stewing or boiling, a method which is found very convenient, and saving a great deal of trouble. With them coal may be used, and the smoke is carried off by a flue. They have, however, the incon- venience of heating the kitchen too much, except some contrivance is resorted to for I carrying off the hot air ; but they have not the evil produced by stewing stoves of ' creating the unwholesome charcoal gas. With respect to the heat, it must be observed, 1 that it is undoubtedly injurious to health, yet cooks do not in general complain of this : 80 much as we might suppose ; they say it is hurtful at first, but that in time they get : seasoned to it! To insist upon the bad effect of such heat, probably appears to tliem like : a slur upon their profession, as they imagine cooking and great heat to be inseparable. Jeakes's broiling stove may be made to form a part of the hot plate. In the kitchen of the ' City Club several of these broiling stoves, a, b, c, d, e,f. Jig. 67.5., form part of a very long ft O it~" ) Tigt 674. tl, < as