Book III. ON VENTILATION. 112 by respiration, and the burning of lights, first ascends to the ceiling in consequence of being ■warm; and although it must remain imprisoned there for a time, if there are no apertures for its escape, yet by being cooled gradually, it descends and mixes -with the rest of the air of the room ; and it then more or less falls into the current of air rushing towards the fire. Among the various kinds of air with which that of our apartments is contaminated, some are of different degrees of specific gravity from atmospheric air; and it might there- fore be supposed that we might find them at diff'erent heights. It might be imagined that the carbonic acid, from its greater specific gravity when cooled, occupies the lower part of the room, though, while warm as just escaped by the breath, it had risen to the ceiling. But this complete separation from each other of the diff'erent gases never takes place, for it is the nature of gases very soon to diff"use themselves and commingle, and the warm and cold portions soon change places by becoming of equal temperature : at least this is their constant tendency, and we cannot draw any line of separation between them, as if they were so many strata. All the time, therefore, while a fire is burning in an apartment, the air is constantly, though slowly, changing, by one part passing through the fire and going up the chimney flue, while fresh air to supply its place is forcing in at all the crevices in the apartment. Whether this change is sufficient, must depend upon the number of persons in the room who destroy the vital part of the air, and also upon the number of lights which . act.in the same way. 502. If the vitiated air be not removed with sufficient rapidity, by the draught of the chimney alone, then some other mode wUl be necessary in addition. Foi-merly in England, the dwelling rooms of the middle and lower classes were so low, that the air which was injured by respiration could scarcely ascend above the heads of the inhabitants, who were there- fore always immersed in an impure atmosphere: it is to be observed, that this must be the constant effect of low apartments, and is an evil which attaches to the habitations of our poor of the present day, and often to the bed chambers of the wealthy. A room only seven feet high cannot possibly be healthy to live in, as then there is not space for the expired air, which consequently becomes mixed with the purer air of the lower part of the room, and is breathed over again. As our best houses are now constructed, with the rooms lofty, and the sashes made to open at top and at bottom, or, as it is called, double hung, ventilation becomes com- paratively easy. The warm vitiated air ascending to the ceiling, finds there sufficient space above our heads, till it cools and mixes gradually with the rest, as we have shown ; and if we wish to change the air more completely, we have only to pull down a small part of the upper sash, that the hot air near the ceiling may escape. But this escape of foul air will not always take place, while a fire is burning, except we attend to some circum- stances. Should the aperture made by pulling down the top sash be greater than the area of the crevices in the apartments from which the fire was supplied, some cold air will come.in by the window, to supply the fire, instead of hot air going out, and the effect of this will be unpleasant. It is necessary therefore that some other apertures, at the lower part of the room, should furnish this necessary supply of air to the fire, and permit the warm to go off': opening a door for a short time will effect this, or lifting up the lower part of a sash. But this mode of ventilation, though perfectly eff'ectual and easy, cannot with convenience be always well applied while persons are in the room, on accoimt of the draughts of cold air which must enter, though it is quite sufficient whenever the room is empty : and this principle being understood, it is not difficult to modify to suit it to most occasions. Dwelling rooms which are only occupied during short periods, and thoroughly ventilated by the windows between those periods, seldom require any other systematic ventilation, than what we have just described. French sashes, which open like fold- ing doors, are the best for this purpose where they can be introduced, as the whole ex- tent of the window can be opened; whereas with double himg sashes only one half of the window can be open, though this half may consist of one portion at top, and another at at bottom. 503. The necessity for good ventilation in the basement story, and-offices of every house must appear evident, when we reflect how the air in the lower story ascends up tlie staircases, and that if there are any noxious effluvia; disengaged below, they are sure to contaminate the air of the whole house. It is in vain, therefore, that great pains are bestowed upon the upper apartments, if the lower ones are neglected. We believe there are few houses tJiat do not suffer more or less from this cause, and that many are rendered really unhealthy, though the occupiers never suspect the truth itself, nor the cause of it. It should be a constant practice of the principals to make regular descents inio these lower regions, and to examine with their own eyes the condition of things, in a case in which, not merely their comfort, but their health, and that of their family, are seriously concerned. Frequent thorough cleaning and scrubbing, whitewashing and painting, with regular visits, would do much to imjirove the atmosphere of every mansion, and care should he taken that every place should have proper openings for a free circidation of air.