PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. 1204 be described, yet peculiar, and-well known to experienced nurses; for example, slight twitchings of the mouth, and unsettled rolling or else fixed gaze of the eyes. Again, any, the most inattentive nurse, can scarcely avoid noticing any unusual flushing, or pallidity, or blueness or yellowness of the face. 7133. Alterations in the gestures. — Thus, a child will be observed to hang its head over the nurse's arm, as if too heavy for it; or to throw its head back, or to the side ; or to be constantly putting its hand to its head or neck ; or rolling its head on the pillow. Such symptoms should never be overlooked. A child may suddenly start, and this happens during attacks of spasmodic pain. In colic, the child draws its legs up to its body ; in debility, the extended position of the body indicates languor. 7134. Alterations in the cry.—It should be noticed whether it be feeble, or its note altered from the usual pitch ; whether there be moaning and sighing. In inflammatory diseases the cliild often abstains from crying, for fear of increasing the pain by movement. In commencing croup, the cry, as well as the cough, is harsh, ringing and metallic. In very severe cases of thrush ; the cry may become husky, but such cases are always under the care of a medical man. 7135. Alterations in the manner of sucking.—In thrush, in dentition, in fact in all cases in which there is soreness of the mouth, the child sucks feebly, with caution, and not long at a time, often leaving the breast for an instant and then returning to it. The manner of sucking affords a tolerable estimate of the general strength of the infant. 7136. Alterations in sleep.—The alterations particularly to be noticed, and reported to the medical attendant, are sobbing, sighing, starting, knitting of the brows, drawing of the mouth, grinding of the teeth, quickened breathing, increased perspiration, or heat and flushing of face or skin generally. 7137. Alterations in the mode of breathing.—It is to be observed whether it is quickened or difiicult, or more on one side than the other, or accompanied by moaning or rattling in the throat, whether the breath be foetid, or whether there be a cough. Under this head it may be worth while to mention, that sometimes from a violent fit of crying, from passion, the child's face gets quite livid, and it almost seems as if it would be choked: a simple and generally successful remedy is plunging the child's hand suddenly into cold water; this induces a convulsive sob or sigh, and air immediately passes into the lungs. 7138. Alterations in the skin.— These consist chiefly in eruptions of various kinds, which should always be attentively noticed; any unusual coldness, dryness, or on the other hand, heat or much moisture, of the skin should not be allowed to escape notice. A singular purple streak at the verge of the eyelids was considered by Dr. Dennan, as distinctive of the disease called " morbid shuffles," which usually appear after the first month. We have said nothing of alterations in the motions, the tongue, or the urine ; these are too obvious to be overlooked. We have said thus much on these alterations from the natural state, because we are convinced that the importance of early noting them cannot be overrated. They mark, in some instances, the commencement of diseases which, easily arrested b)' treatment in their early stages, may be in their developed attack intractable and danger- ous in the highest degree. Again, they are much more easily discerned by the mother or nurse than by the physician, because the former knows the natural state of the infant, of which the latter is necessarily ignorant; and it is not the mere presence of these symptoms, but their presence as alterations, which should excite alarm. Sect. III. DISEASES OF CHILDREN. SuBSEOT. 1 — Slight Diseases. 7139. In addition to diseases common to all. children are liable to some peculiar afi'ec- tions, as croup, water on the brain {Hydrocephalus acutiis of medical writers) : there are also some aff'ections more common in them than in adults, and which few children escape. 7140. The arrangement we shall adopt is recommendedi only hy its convenience, audit is void of all pretension to technicality. We shall consider, under three heads, 1. a few simple complaints, wliich are seen every day in the nursery; also dentition and its con- sequences ; — 2. the early symptoms of certain serious diseases, peculiar to, or more common in childhood, such as croup, convulsions, water on the brain, and the disease commonly called at the present day "remittent fever," and its consequence;—3. the commencement of certain diseases which commonly attack every one, as measles, scarlatina, small pox, and hooping cough. The first disease we shall notice is an extremely common disease of the skin ; it is generally called in common language, "red gum." It is often seen a week or two after birth ; red spots are seen on the breast, back, loins, &c. It is generally of little con-