1218 Book XXV i PIIESEIIVATION OV HEALTH. and be wiped dry with towels iu order to bring on the reaction. The water may be evui; dashed on, in the manner called the douche, which see. When the object is to obtain the refrigeratory action of the bath with as little as possibl.- of the nervous shock or vascular reaction, as in the case of febrile diseases and local inflammation, the water should not be applied at first at a low temperature, nor suddenly ; it should be only cool, and applied with a sponge, repeating the application till the desirod eifect is produced. 7184. It is chiefly in chronic diseases that the cold bath is employed for a length of tim^ and it is then principally the secondary effect, the glow or reaction, which is desired. T] rules to be observed in order to obtain this effect are founded upon the strength, which generally inferred from the age of the individual. The degree of reaction is for ihi- most part dependent upon the coldness of the water, and the length of time the perso: remains in the bath. Very cold water, in which the person remains but a short tiiii will, in general, produce a greater degree of reaction than a more moderate temperatan in which he remains longer. But here much depends upon the general power of the individual, the state of his system, especially of the skin at the moment of immersion, and the nature of the bath according as it is fresh or salt water, and also the season of the year. 7185. The effects of the cold bath have been described very differently hy physicians : some have considered it as a stimulant, others as sedative or tonic, or even debilitating; but the truth is, that its operation varies according to circumstances, namely, the mode of using it, and the condition of the patient. It may be debilitating in a case where the strength of the patient is exhausted, yet tonic in the highest degree in another when properly applied. As the reaction is commonly proportioned to the vigour of the cir- culation, particularly that on the surface, and to its warmth, it should be a rule, that persons with a feeble circulation and cold extremities should endeavour to invigorate the circulation, and increase their temperature previously to going into the cold bath. Many imagine that when they are made a little warm by walking, that they ought to wait till the body is quite cool before they go into the water ; but this idea has been shown to be erroneous, and Dr. Currie has recommended that a little exercise should be taken pre- viously to cold bathing. If after coming out of the cold bath, the person feels dull and chilly, or complains of headache or tightness across the chest, it is a proof that it disagrees, and it should accordingly be discontinued. 7186. With respect to the length of time to remain in the cold bath, from ten to txfentj minutes is sufficient even for the strongest constitution, and is too long in very cold weather. A cold bath in a cold place is far from being comfortable ; and after coming out of the bath, the body should be dried in a room or place tolerably warm, that the reaction may be encouraged. 7187. The morning is generally the best time for the employment of the cold bath, the temperature of which should bear a relation to the time of year and the temperature of the weather, as well as to the strength of the person using it. It is an error to use cold water at night; the frame, after the exhaustion of the day, is more in a state for the soothing influence of warm water. In some cases, however, it may be proper to use tepid water in the morning, and to avoid the relaxing effects of warm water in the evening. For persons of delicate constitution, it is best to fortify the habit with a good breakfast, which should be taken at least an hour or two before bathing. 7188. The reaction is increased by using some motion or exercise when in the cold bath ; swimming is therefore advisable when the bather has sufficient skill, and the bath is sufficiently large ; but care should be taken that the stay in the water should not be too much protracted. Friction of the skin after the bath conduces to a beneficial effect, by producing a healthy glow. 7189. The cases of disease for which cold bathing is a valuable remedy are, morbidly in- creased irritability and sensibility, accompanied with general debility. AVhen there is a tendency to colds and rheumatism, the cold bath is an excellent preventive; for this pur- pose it should be used continually throughout the year, and the chest should be sponged with cold water, or vinegar and water may be substituted in winter, when there are not facilities for using the complete bath. Delicate and feeble persons of all ages require a higher temperature of the bath, and a shorter stay in it, than others. It is proper for such persons to begin a course of cold bathing by the use of the tepid or temperate bath, lowering the temperature gradually ; or perhaps a glass of wine or a cup of coffee may be taken before entering the cold bath. It is a good rule to wet the head previous to taking the plunge. The cold bath is improper in chronic inflammation of the mucous membranes of the bronchi and intestinal canal, except when these are very slight; but it is beneficial in certain cases of chronic catai-rh, attended with little or no inflammation of the bronchial membranes, partioulnrly in the dry catarrh, and in those forms which seem to depend