Chap. 1. 331 DUTIES OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 1509. Jn EslablishmenI <if lite Fifth Rate, for an income of lOOU/. or 1200/. per annum. Cook. Housemaid. Uniler housemaid. Expected to assist the cook when serving her dinner. One man-servant. 1510. An Establishment of the 1.512. An Establishment of the Eighth Hate. Income 300/. to 250/. ?er annum. maid-servant. 1 girl. 1513. An Establishment of the Ninth Rate. Income 2001. to 150/. A maid of all work. Incomes still less will admit of a girl only, or with the occasional use of a charwoman. Sixth Rate. Income from 700/. to 600/. per annum. Cook. Housemaid. Footboy. 1511. An Establishment of the Seventh Rate. Income 500/. to 450/ per annum. Cook. Housemaid. Sect. V. DUTIES OF MEN-SERVANTS. SuBSECT. 1.—Duties of Vie House-steward. 1514. The house-steward is the representative of his employer in all matters of busi- ness connected with the house : he hires, discharges, manages, and directs every subordi- nate member of the establishment of men-servants, with the exception of the valet, whose conduct and qualifications come more immediately under his master's notice, and more materially affect his comfort, than those of any other member of the household. 1515. The steward purchases every article consumed in the house ; and it is necessary for him to have very sufficient knowledge of the qualities of the articles to be bought, and the right season for laying them up. He should never deal with any but tradesmen of known probity, whose interest it is to recommend to him only the best of their commodities. 1516. In accounts the steward must be ready, though domestic bookkeeping, not being of a very complicated description, requires great accuracy rather than proficiency in the science of figures. It consists chiefly in keeping a strict account of moneys received and disbursed. The mode in which his accounts are to be kept is sometimes directed by his employer. If left to his own arrangement, his desire should be to render 1 them simple, or he may give his principal unnecessary trouble at the periods of I their examination. Neither should he trust to memory, but make instant memoranda of all payments and receipts ; nor, if he regard his own interest, "will he pay any sum away without demanding in return a proper receipt. By not doing that, he may subject I his master to the liability of a second payment, and himself to the loss of his sitixation and , character. All current accounts are usually made up by the steward half-yearly; and ' -when examined by his employer and found to be correct, a receipt or acknowledgment I of their accuracy is given him by his master. 1317. In the room appropriated to his use the steward keeps his books and files of bills. In the room also I he makes a point of remaining for certain periods each day, that all the other members of the household may ! find him re.idy to hear their questions or complaints. Tliis done, he then proceeds to the different offices I to see that in each the duties of the day are properly engaged in. The house-steward, in some instances, has the general superintendence of the stables, 'seeing into the fair and honest use of hay and corn : but this duty is usually performed by tthe coachman. Whatever superintendence or investigation is usually given, in smaller establishments, by the principal thimself, the house-steward must consider himself as bound to do. These duties .ill inquired into, the uteward then examines into the state of the larder and stores, and prepares for market. Tlie purchases tare (;iven into the housekeeper's hand, who, after weighing and examining them, gives him in exchange • vouchers, which are afterwards compared with the tradesmen's accounts. SuBSECT. 2.—Duties of the Valet. 1518. The valet in small families is expected to assist as footman also; but his particu- lar province is to attend exclusively to the personal accommodation of his master. Upon him he waits during all times of dressing and undressing: brushes, folds up his clothes, or places them in readiness for him. AU repairs he sees done; and on putting away cloth clothes into a wardrobe, he uses the precaution of covering them with brown hol- IJand or linen wrappers, to secure them from dust. Boots and shoes (cleaned by the imder-footman) should be placed every morning ready lin the dressing-room. The valet should see that the housemaid cleans the grate, light; tthe fire, and sweeps and dusts the room, while he prepares the washing-table by filling; the ewer with soft water, and the carafe with fresh spring water, and by putting in theii rright places basins, towels, and brushes: hot water and the shaving apparatus should be at hand ; the linen and slippers airing at the fire; and the rest of the apparel to be worn hhung across the backs of chairs, and covered over with hoUand wrappers. 1519. After the dres-sing is oner, the valet sliould take the earliest opportunity of clean- ing and putting away the razors, and everything which has been used, in its proper place. •See " Cutlery," Chap. XVIII. Book V. I.'120. For wet weather, when his master may come in from riding, the valet should be always prepared, by .navmg ready the ricccssary changes of linen .ind clothing, .ind by being himself in waiting, to remove tlie l.imp clothing, and to prevent its being injured in the drying. 1521. Hijorc putting damp wonllen elalhmg to the tire, it shoulil he rubbod with a sponge, the way of the up. until the smoothness of the surface is restored. If dried witliout this precaution, brushing will not be '•ircclual m removing tlic rouglmcss.