1087 iChap. VII. IRONING AND MANGLING. are too -well known to demand enumeration, and even these vary somewhat with fashion ; :the process of starching consists merely in dipping the part into the starch, and "Squeezing it. 6497. 'WJiat is called clear starching is the starching of laces, muslins, and other trans- ; parent tissues, which requires to he done with peculiar care ; for these the starch is made thicker and hotter than ordinary, and the articles, after having heen well washed, rinsed, :and dried, are dipped into the thick starch previously strained, hefore it is quite cold. After squeezing them out they are clapped hetween the hands, to produce clearness, llnstead of clapping, which is apt to injure lace, some prefer, after starching and squeezing out, spreading them on a linen cloth, rolling them up in it, and letting them lie for an hour, \when they will he ready for the irons. Muslins and cambrics do not require the starch -so thick as net or lace. If the articles are too dry for the iron, they may be damped again, by rolling them in a damp cloth; but this should, if possible, be avoided. All I linen, after starching, requires to be made nearly, though not quite, dry before ironing. 6498. It is sometimes found that starched laces and muslins stick to the iron, and several 1 methods of preventing this are employed. Some recommend drying the things first, then dipping them in the starch before it is quite cold ; then dipping them in cold water and drying them again; once more dipping them in cold water, spreading them on a dry I cloth, and rolling up previous to ironing: by this process sticking to the iron is prevented. ;Some put a little tallow, hogs' lard, or olive oil in the starch ; but a lump of refined sugar i is preferable. In India all muslins are stiffened with rice water, which is said to be i excellent; and the rice starch is said not to stick to the irons. CHAP. vn. IRONIKG AND MANGLING. G499. Linen and cotton, or cloth of any kind, after being washed and dried, is full of wrinkles, and a beautiful smooth appearance is to be produced by ironing or mangling. ' The last is the most expeditious, and least apt to injure the colour, but can only be applied : to the large articles, the hot iron being necessary where there are many folds, or where the texture is too delicate for the mangle. 6500. .Previous to ironing, all linen and other articles, after being washed and well dried, I must be properly folded, and slightly damped by sprinkling water upon them just before I the application of the hot iron. The proper degree of dampness is a nicety learned only ': by practice, but it is essential to the success of good ironing. 6501. Ironing is a very important part of what is termed the getting up of linen ; bad iron- : ing is known by the creases left, and inaccurate folding, and sometimes by the marks left ' by ill-cleaned irons, or even iron-moulds. To iron well it is necessary not only to be I dexterous in the use of the iron implement, but also it is essential that the mode of heating I the irons should be effectual. 6502. Smootliing irons are employed to give smoothness to such articles of wearing : apparel as do not admit of being wound round a cylinder to be mangled. These imple- 1 ments are of three kinds ; the common flat iron, termed among ironmongers the sad iron ; ; the box iron ; and the Italian iron. The first is so named, because the word sad in the I north means solid. 6503. The common flat zVon 817.), which is most frequently employed, is well known. They are manufactured of various sizes, varying in length from four to nine or ten inches. The body is of cast-iron ground smooth at the bottom, and the handle of wrought-iron, turned round so as to be hollow. The larger the irons, the longer they retain the heat, and the greater the pressure they are capable of giving. Small irons are employed for more delicate articles. C504. TTie ovaljtat iron (fg. 818.) is sometimes employed for the cauls of caps, or such things as might be apt to be torn by the pointed iron. It is to be observed, that it has of late be- come usual to make the last iron (Jig. 817.) round at the point, instead of being sharp as formerly, and as represented in the cut. 6505. The box iron (fig. 819.), is an old-fashioned implement, less used than formerly, but ingeniously constructed. As con- siderable pressure is frequently useful, this iron is made large Pig_ 8|g. and heavy ; and to retain its heat longer, it is made hollow, tlie cavity containing an iron heater, which is made nearly red hot