BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 650 Book VIII, inferior French red wines, sold in France at a few sous a bottle, is frequently mingled with rough cyder, and coloured to resemble claret with cochineal, turnsole, and similar drugs • and IS then named aud passed off as claret on certain occasions, without the fraud being discovered. ° It is said, and with great appearance of probability, that some Frenchmen are equally ingenious with our own dealers ; they prepare wines from the refuse of their vin- tages, or what they call wine of the "third quality," much of which, being scarcely drinkable, would find no other market than the English, being bought up at the lowest price, to be converted into genuine " Vin de Bordeaux," by means of oyster shells or lime, to destroy acidity, with brandy, colouring and flavouring materials to complete the pro- cess. Abundance of cheap vin ordinaire of France is now sold here as the best, or is metamorphosed into claret, and offered for sale by fraudulent wine dealers. Cheap Moselle wines are sometimes sold under the specious name of white Burgundy, &c. It is no wonder, therefore, that such wines are found to disagree with the English constitution, and that they are complained of as too cold and acid. The only remedy, as we before stated, is to purchase such wines only of the most respectable wine-merchants. 3657. Adulteration of sherry. The delicious dry wines of Spain, though naturally strong, receive an addition of brandy in the manufacture for the English market, as we have already stated ; but it is said that " pale sherries " are frequently manufactured out of Cape wine, to which have been added what is called " brandy cowe," or the washings of brandy casks ; some extract of almonds to give the nutty flavour ; with cherry laurel water to improve the latter. Fictitious brown sherries, besides these additions, receive burnt sugar and gum, benzoin, or honey. 3658. Champagne is fabricated in England with more boldness than any other foreign wine, few persons being acquainted with the true taste of the first quality of this wine. One species of fraud is to substitute, instead of wine of the best kind, a very inferior ^d weak wine made in France, but which, until lately, was wholly consumed in the district where it was fabricated, and which would not keep more than a year. This has very little alcohol, and is without the flavour or bouquet of good Champagne, but exhibits abundance of frothing and effervescence from its carbonic acid. Large quantities of this, which in France does not cost ten pence a bottle, are passed off for the best at balls, masquerades, crowded public dinners, &c., or is offered for sale at a somewhat lower price. But a still larger quantity, perhaps, sold for Champagne, is entirely fictitious, being made from gooseberries, without any of the juice of the grape, and is worth scarcely one-fourth of what is paid for it. In this manner is the public plimdered annually of considerable sums of money that might be usefully expended. 3659. Madeira may be obtained genuine, called direct Madeira, by applying to the merchants to whom it is consigned by the manufacturers in the island of Madeira ; but the inferior wine of the north side of the island is sometimes sold for that of the south, which alone produces good wine. A wine from the Cape is also sometimes substituted for real Madeira, with some addition of flavouring ingredients. But veiy little actual Madeira enters into the composition of what is sold by the cheap advertisers and pla- carders: their manufacture is said to consist of a cheap Vidonia, with one-tenth of mountain, a fifth Cape, and a little port ; this is coloured, and fined. 3660. The Cape wines, which, when in a genuine state, are but indifferent and cheap, we might suppose would escape adulteration ; but this is not the case. Those which, from their flavour, have any resemblance to other wines, are selected and sold under the deceitful names of Cape Madeira, Cape sherry. Cape port, Pontae, and even Cape Her- mitage, or Burgundy, or passed off as the wines whose names have been borrowed. After that, the remainder goes by the simple name of " Cape extremely cheap;" and a great deal is mixed with cyder, and some of the adulterating materials we have alreadj' men- tioned, together with the " brandy cowe," strength being the chief quality esteemed by the class of purchasers for whom it is intended, the generally bad character of this wine serving as an apology for any defect that may appear in this manufacture. 3661. It can scarcely be necessary to enlarge upon the evils produced by the extensive frauds committed in the wine trade, which we have endeavoured to expose. 3662. It must be obvious how great the loss must be to the revenue, to say nothing of the injury done to health, as well as to public morals, fi"om the constant habit of practising imposition in all its various ramifications. Cape wine, which pays a low duty, is much employed in these sophistications, to the amount, it is said, of many hundred tuns annu- ally; but the quantity of fictitious liquor sold as wine with scarcely a drop of grape juice, it is impossible to calculate, although no doubt it is very considerable. 3G63. Formerly there were severe laws in England against the adulteration of wine. A company of vintners even took cognizance of such matters; and in 1426 the Lord Mayor condemned a hundred and fifty butts of adulterated wine to be thrown into the kennel. An act was jiasscd in the reign of Charles IL even prohibiting wines from being Intermingled. Of late, this subject seems not to be sufficiently attended to.