G02 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIT. of unripe fruit. For the rich sweet wines, the juice is concentrated by leaving the grapes exposed to the sun for a few days; but, in general, the fruit is taken at once to the press. In the richer and best wines also, where a very delicate flavour is expected, all the stalks are removed ; but in the strong rough wines, a certain proportion of the stalks are kept, as they give strength and astringency. In the preparation of port wine they are always used; but in the manufacture of the more delicate wines of Bordeaux they are generally excluded. The practice of different countries differs much in this respect, and in weak wines they are apt to communicate a harsh and austere flavour. 3398. The bruising the fruit, or pressing, is performed in various ways in different countries, according to the care bestowed in the manufacture. In many parts of France, the grapes are put into tubs with perforated bottoms, and men tread them with their sabots or wooden shoes, the juice running out into the vat or tub placed below. This mode is imperfect; and where the vintage is conducted in the best manner, presses arc made use of for this purpose, by which the process is performed more uniformly and completely. The skins and refuse, after the grapes have been pressed, constitute what is called the 7narc. 3399. But before we proceed to describe the manufacture of wine, we must explain the principles upon which its formation depends. StJBSECT. 3. — Sketch of the Tlieory or general Principles of Wine-making. The theory and process of fermentation having been already treated of at some length in Book VIII. Chap. II., we shall confine ourselves here to a concise recapitulation of those particulars respecting it which are requisite towards a connected view of wine- making. 3400. It was observed, that when any sweet vegetable juice, whether a decoction of malt, juice of the grape, or that of other fruit, is exposed to the ordinary temperature of summer, say from 50° to 70°, it soon begins to exhibit that intestine motion termed fermentation, and distinguished by the production of alcohol, which remains in the liquid, and of car- bonic acid, which chiefl)' escapes in the form of gas. 3401. If a decoction of malt be fermented, the produce is ale or beer ; but if grapes or other sweet fruits have been employed, wine is the result. 3402. It has been shown that the process of fermentation depends essentially upon the presence of two substances at least: saccharine matter, and another vegetable principle termed a leaven or ferment, the nature of which appears to be extremely analogous to, if not identical with, gluten or vegetable albumen. These two substances, which exist more or less in all sweet vegetable juices, act upon each other, and occasion a decomposition into their elementary principles; and when these unite again in other proportions, they give rise to the two essential products of fermentation above-mentioned, alcohol and carbonic acid. The phenomena of fermentation and the liquid resulting from it vary in some degree according to the relative proportions of the saccharine matter and the ferment. 3403. When the juice of the grapes, or must as it is termed, is put into the vat, at a temperature of 60°, it soon begins to ferment spontaneously: no yeast is added, as in the case of beer or ale, because the natural ferment contained in grapes is sufficient to excite and keep up a sufficient fermentation. We may mention it as remarkable, that although expressed juice ferments so readily, yet this process never takes place in the juice before the fruit is bruised. The fact is, the sugar and the ferment are contained in different parts of the grape, and they never come into contact, except the fruit is broken. 77ie general phenomena of fermentation have been so particularly described when treating on that subject at large, and again under " Brewing," that we shall not detain the reader by repeating it in detail. The appearance of air bubbles, and of a gentle ebullition, together with the turbid state of the fluid, are the same in all cases : a portion of the exhausted ferment, now rendered insoluble, rises to the surface with another portion not exhausted, constituting the yeast, the remainder falling to the bottom in the form of lees. The gas which escapes is known to be the carbonic acid. 3404. In the ordinary methods of making wines, there are two periods in the fermentation. The first or primary fermentation in the vat is the most considerable, in which the principal part of the sugar and ferment are decomposed; and of course alcohol produced. After this first effort of the fermentative process, the usual phenomena disappear, and the effects sensibly diminish ; the process should now be stopped, otherwise the liquor would advance to the acetous state of fementation. While this fermentation was proceeding, yeast being thrown up, and tartar and mucilage precipitated, the liquor had become muddy ; but as the fermentation lessens, and these impurities have gradually subsided to the bottom as lees, the new fluid or wine becomes clearer, and the vinous; taste is perceiv- able. But though the operation has apparently ceased, it has not in reality ; and it must