ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 164 Book IV. imitation of ancient customs, and the size and shape of some of these preserve a tolerably just idea of the ancient candelabra; but they differ essentially from them in having a socket for the candle, and still more in the choice of forms and taste of ornament. Of late it has been the fashion here, in the houses of the nobility and wealthy, to have can- delabra in elegant apartments to support lights of various kinds, and many of these are accurately copied from the antique, or designed in the same style. Sect. XX. VERT INTENSE LIGHTS. 723. The intensity of the light, in some cases, is very important: and this has occasioned some very accurate experiments to be made upon the various substances employed for producing light. The various animal and vegetable oils have been tried, of which spermaceti oil has been found to give the most light: cocoa nut oil is inferior. Gas has likewise been tried, but nothing was gained in intensity of light. 724. In lighthouses, it is not only necessary to have a strong light that may be seen at a great distance, but it is required likewise to have the lights varied, so that the light of one lighthouse shall be distinguishable from that of another. For this purpose, three kinds of lights are employed : a fixed white light : a revolving light, which shall appear and disappear for a minute or two alternately ; and likewise coloured lights: the latter are produced by the use of coloured glasses. 725. The concentric wick lump with a double current of air was first invented by the writer of this article, upwards of thirty-five years ago, and was announced by Sir H. Davy at the Royal Institution, as very useful for chemical purposes ; affording a much more intense heat and light than any lamp, at that time made. It consists of two circular wicks, like Argand's, one within the other, and, of course, two concentric flames. A great manj' of them were sold by Messrs." Accum and Garden, Compton Street, London, for chemical purposes. A lamp on the same principle, with four concentric wicks, has since been constructed by M. Fresnel for light-houses, which, according to Dr. Brewster, gives a light equal to forty common Argand flames. An inconvenience in the use of these double wicked lamps, when used for ordinary light, is the intense heat they produce, which is, however, very advantageous in a chemical laboratory. 726. The most intense light that can be produced is that knowTi here by the name of the oxy-hydrogen light. This method consists in projecting a stream of oxygen gas, and another of hydi'ogen gas brought into union in an ignited state, upon a small ball of lime. The light produced is, indeed, so intense as to be insupportable to the eye. By a small baU of lime, only three eighths of an inch in diameter, so brilliant a light is emitted, that it is equal to thirteen Argand lamps united, or 120 wax candles. This light has been successfully employed in various ways : as signals in surveying; in light-houses; and in illuminating the microscope, by which means an extraordinary magnif)'ing power can be used. Exhibitions of these microscopes are now well known : the light is in tbat case passed through a lens, and it throws the images of objects magnified from 10,000 to 500,000 times, in the manner of a solar microscope, upon a disk of fourteen feet in diameter. It is proper to mention that the original invention of this light does not appear to belong to Lieut. Drummond, as it has been claimed by Prof. Silliman of North America. 727. In the original'Bude light, invented by Mr. Gurney, the light was produced by passing a stream of oxygen gas through the wick of an Argand oil lamp ; in consequence a most intense and beautiful light was foi-med. But the light now known as the Bude light is stated to be " nothing more than an ordinary gas flame from three, or more, large concentric Argand burners, the air passing up through the centre being only atmospheric air, with chimneys and reflecting apparatus of particular construction." In this latter case, the principle appears to have been borrowed from the concentric wnck lamp described above. The Bude light has been found very advantageous in large interiors, such as the House of Commons, and churches. Sect. XXL MANAGEMENT OF LAMPS. 728. From the great heat which fixed oil gives out in burning, it scorches and chars the u-ich, changing its texture, so that it does not imbibe the oil so fast as at first. The oil also deposits, and particularly the impure oils, a quantity of carbonaceous matter upon the wick, which, constantly accumulating, clogs it to such a degree that the oil cannot ascend, causing the lamp to burn dim. On this account, after a lamp has burned a certain time, it is necessary to cut off the portion of (he wick that has been so acted upon, and to kindle the portion below it. This is called trimming the wich. A remedy for this has been atteinptod, by making the wick of incombu.stible materials, as asbestos or wire; but this has not succeeded. There is, however, a considerable difference in various oils, with