ON TEA. Chap. X. 701 black colour if this salt be present; but no change will happen if genuine green tea is used ; we have already staled that it contains no copper. Kreeu i ml black teas, are disposed of in this way. It is well known tliat vast quantities of bol ea are im- norted and as very little of this tea is met with in the shops of London, n is concluded, and we believe not w"thout good reason, that it is extensively mixed with congou. At present, there appears to be no method of Kuarding agidnst these frauds but by purchasing teas of the most reputable dealers ■ 40"l The Chinese mantifnctarers themselves sumelimes employ means oj ariulteratmg Iheii tens; and it is said that they dry vast quantities of the leaves of various trees for this purpose, borne tea was brought to this country from Sincapore, which was found to be mixed with other leaves ; and this tea had been carried to Sincapore in Chinese junks. Similar frauds had been practised previously ; but when discovered by the East India Company, who kept skilful inspectors for the purpose, such teas, when discovered, were never offered lor sale, but'were destroyed. Sect. VI. CONSUMPTION OF TEA. 4022. The following statement of the consumption of tea in Europe, America, and the colonies, is believed to come near to the truth. lbs. United States . . 10,000,000 ^ w'"! , 1,500,000 West Indies . J British India . . 1,000,000 Australia . . . 250,000 This vast quantity of the leaves of a foreign plant, imported in most instances from a distance of lifteen thousand miles, m.iycost in China, in round numbers, about four millions sterling ; and the total cost to the consumers, including duty, may be .ibout sixteen millions. The Chinese, .and the other Oriental nations, use scarcely any but black teas. In Britain, the black tea consumed is to the green as five to one. The Americans, on the contrary, use in gener.-il two parts of green to one of black. The English in Bengal and Australia use little else than green ; and at Bombay and Madras they drink chieny black tel. In Holland, more black tea is used tlian green ; and in Russia the consumption is almost all of black. lbs. Great Britain . . 43.000,000 Russia . . . 6,.'j0O,GO0 Holland . . . 3,000,000 Germany . . . 2,(100,000 France . .• . 2.'i0,000 Sect. VIL purchase of and keeping tea. 4023. Tea should be chosen by the agreeableness of its odour, and as whole as possible, in order that it may be easily examined as to its leaf; and the greatest care should be taken that it has not been exposed to the air, which destroys its flavour. The method employed by the Chinese to prevent this is extremely ingenious and effectual. It is i,VelI known that it is brought from China in boxes termed tea-chests, made of thin hard wood, and lined with extremely thin lead, tlie method of making which is as follows : — A man sits on the floor with a large stone slab before him, and a movable flat stone on its edge. His fellow workman, who stands by his side, pours .1 small quantity of melted lead on the slab, and the first workman instantly dashes down the movable stone on the melted lead, which presses it out into a fiat and thin plate, which he immediately removes from the sl.ib ; the rough edges of these plates are then cut off, and they are soldered together for use. Considerable dexterity is probably necessary in tills operation, which does not appear yet to be imitated in this country. The tea- chests are remarkably strong, from the great toughness of the wood, the manner in which their corners are joined, and their being pasted over with paper. When eniptied, they are sold by the grocers, and foria remarkably cheap and convenient packing rases for various purposes. Sect. VIII. CULTIVATION OF TEA IN OTHER COUNTRIES THAN CHINA. 4024. It had long .since occurred io intelligent per.ions that it would be desirable we should nut be wholly dependant upon so singular a nation as the Chinese for tea, which has now really become an article of necessity. Trials made in several other countries proved that the tea plant might be easily cultivated, the climate required not being tropical. From the variety of climate in that extensive portion of China where it grows, the tea ; plant would not appear to be a very delicate shrub, and there does not seem to be any 1 reason why it might not be raised in some of our colonies, among which may be found 1 every variety of climate. 402.5. In ITO,"? Lord Macartney procured some tea plants from. China, and .sent them to Bengal; and, at various times, experiments have been made with respect to the cultivation of the tea plant in India, for which, in many parts, particularly in the Nepaul country, I the climate and soil appear favourable. Mr. Roylc, in his " Illustrations of the Natural History of the Himala and Cashmere,"- 1 has publi.shed much collected information respecting the tea plant, and upon the conditions ' which relate to the vegetation and the cultivation of these plants in China : and, from the < whole, the author concluded that in the Himala country, wliere so great an analogy exists in latitude, elevation, soil, climate, and the course of the seasons, as well as considerable