Book VIII. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 684 pendcntly of the water with which they are diluted they contain other impurities. Brandy made from wine has a peculiar essential oil derived from the grape with some acid, &c ; rum is impregnated with another essential oil from the sugar-cane, together with other impurities ; malt liquor has the essential oil of barley ; in short, every spirit when first procured wiU have some impregnation of an essential oil, and some other substances in small quantity, but sufficient to communicate a peculiar flavour ; and this, independently of the strength, constitutes the difference between one spirituous liquor and another. 3865. The business of the rectifier is to deprive the spirit of the water, essential oU, and other impurities, which process is called rectification. It is extremely desirable to have a pure flavourless spirit, for various purposes ; as for instance in the case of making per- fumed essences ; for if the spirit in which the odoriferous oil is dissolved has in itself any peculiar odour, the perfume will be less i)erfect. It is also necessary to have a spirit as free as possible from peculiar flavour, when, as in the case of compound spirits, such as gin and cordials, certain flavours are to be imparted: hence rectifiers have had recourse to various expedients, and a great deal of their knowledge is kept secret. It is very important, that in the first distillation, particularly from malt or barley, the spirit should be drawn with a gentle fire, by which means great part of the essential oil will be prevented from rising and mixing with the spirit; and experience proves that it is much easier to keep asunder substances than to separate them when once they are mixed. But as it is almost impossible, with the greatest care, to draw over a spirit without its being at first impregnated more or less with essential oil, it is necessary to have some method of separating these: the best methods for effecting this are re-distillation and filtration. 3866. Spirits drawn from wine, such as French brandy, may in a great measure be purified or rectified by simple distillation in tall vessels or alembics, and gently distilled in a balneum marice or water bath ; the pure spirituous part rising first, a large proportion both of the oil and phlegm remains behind in the still. K French brandy be thus dis- tilled to one-half, the spirit obtained proves tolerably pure ; and it was in this manner pure spirit was first procured, called from thence spirit of wine ; this method is still em- ployed in France. But wine and brandy being articles too dear in this country, recourse is usually had to the common spirit from malt or molasses, termed in its first state raw spirit, which is rectified for spirit of wine. 3867. To separate the essential oil with whicli the raw spirit abounds, it is mixed with an equal quantity of spring water, and is put into a stili, and distilled with a very gentle heat. The first product of the distillation is the strongest and purest, and when it has come over, to the amount of one-fourth of the whole contents of the still, it forms the rectified spirit. If the distillation be continued, the spirit continues to come over, but weaker and weaker, till at length it is so watery as not to be inflammable. What remains in the still is water, the colouring ingredients, with any accidental impurities; the water is generally turbid, and very nauseous in smell. When the ardent spirits which have been employed contain much essential oil, the dis- tillation requires to be repeated, before it can be purified from all ill flavour; and as this process is tedious, to expedite it the distillers frequently mix with the impure spirit some potash, lime, or other alkaline sub- stance. When potash is used, the spirit has an urinous taste ; to free it from which, it is again distilled with the addition of a little alum and charcoal, the acid of the former attracting the small portion of potash which the spirit held in solution. Malt spirit, when properly rectified, yields as pure and as strong a rectified spirit as brandy. 3868. The raw spirit is sold to the rectifier in the state qf proof spirit, and when it is converted into rectified spirit, it is sold as spirit of wine, or it is made into compounds commonly called liqueurs or cordials, by being distilled with certain herbs and other ingredients. 3869. Rectified spirit or common spirit of wine, being spirit freed from the essential oils above mentioned, is in the highest state of concentration in which it can be easily pre- pared in the large way for the purposes of trade. 3870. Properties of spirit of wine.—It has a fragrant odour, a hot, highly pungent taste. It is colourless ; always fluid; cannot be congealed at any known degree of cold; eva- porates speedily at the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere ; boils at 163°, and is ex- tremely inflammable, burning with a blue lambent flame, without any sensible smoke. Like alcohol it combines with water in every proportion ; it is capable of dissolving many saline bodies, and is the proper solvent of the great number of the proximate principles of vegetables, particularly resins. Expressed oils which swim on water will sink in rectified spirit. It is composed of 85 parts of pure alcohol and 15 of water in 100 parts, when its specific gravity is -835 at a temperature of 60°. It is a powerful stimulant, but is never taken into the stomach in its undiluted state Diluted to the degree of proof spirit, it is still too strong for internal use. SuBSECT. 8. — Compound Spirituous Liquors. 3871. In treating of the business of the rectifier, we have hitherto confined ourselves to the art of depriving distilled spirits of the essential oils and other matters with which they are contaminated, in order to produce a pure spirit approaching nearly to the nature of alcohol. 3872. We have now to treat of those com])ounds which are produced by adding to pure