805 THE KITCHEN. Book XI. Chinols glacds Mirabelles de Metz Apricot, greengage, and pippin tartlets Preserved oranges and lemons, carved, in jelly Norfolk biffins and biffin paste Gelei'S dc fruit, dried in cakes Bottled fruits for tarts: — apricots, greengages, peaches, cherries, raspberries, strawberries, cur- If these are put into patent stone, rants, damsons, gooseberries, biiUaccs, rhubarb, American, Russian, and Swedish cran- berries. Marmalades, jams, and jellies. Apricot marmalade Orange marmalade, Dundee Greengage marmalade Quince marmalade llaspberry jam jars, they will keep very long. Strawberry jam Gooseberry jam Barberry jam Red currant jam Black currant jam Pine-apple jam Red currant jelly Black currant jelly Apple jelly Ditto, from Rouen. BOOK XL ON THE GENERAL ARRANGEIMENT OF A KITCHEN, AND ON THE CULINARY PROCESSES, AND APPARATUS FOR COOKING. CHAP. L INTKODUCTION AND GENERAI, REMAEKS. 4626. The situation of the kitchen with respect to the rest of the house demands the particular consideration of the architect. In London, and in many other large cities and towns, the great value of ground renders it desirahle to economise space as much as possible; and hence the kitchen is almost always placed in the basement story. In the country, however, this mode of arrangement is not so necessary, and the kitchen is often a separate, though attached building, which is better on several accounts, as will he per- ceived from the following enumeration of the requisites of a good kitchen. 4627. 1. It should he sufficiently large, and the parts conveniently distributed. 2. It should be lofty and well ventilated. 3. There should be good light, especially in those places where the cooking is immediately going on. 4. It should be well supplied with water and fuel. 5. There should be easy access to it, without passing through the house. 6. It should be so placed that the odour of the cooking should not he perceived in the house : nor should the latter be incommoded by the noise of the culinary operations and servants. 7. The appendages to the kitchen, as scullery, pantry, store-room, fuel room, &c., should be arranged near to it. 8. If possible some of the offices are best placed round a small court-yard, which would be very useful for many operations that are proper to be performed out of doors and out of sight. 4628. It may be sufficient at present to enumerate a few things in the interior that must be attended to in designing every large kitchen. There should be some good side lights as well as a skylight, if the latter be practicable. There must be a sufficiently large chimney, with a kitchen range, stewing stoves in brick, hot plate, roasters, ovens, and other fixtures for cooking, with proper flues independent of that belonging to the range ; dressers, plate-shelves, and other necessary furniture. The floor should be stone, and the skirtings stone or slate. The cooking is carried on by fires made with wood, coal, peat, or charcoal: steam, gas, and lamps are likewise employed; and also com- binations of several of these modes, each of which demand peculiar contrivances. 4629. In considering the form and general arrangement of kitchens, regard must be had to the nature of the establishment, and the kind of cooking to be performed, since the apparatus necessary for a small family, where economy of expense and house room is a material object, ought to be very different from what are required in the kitchen of a person of large fortune, or in a public establishment. 4().30. " T/ic dintribution of a kitchen," Count Rumford observes, " must always depend so much on local circumstances, that general rules can hardly be given respecting it: the principles, however, on which this distribution ought in all cases to be made, viz. con- venience to the cook, cleanliness, and symmetry, are simple, and easy to be understood: and in the application of them the architect will have a good opportunity of displaying his ingenuity, and showing his taste. Should he condescend to consult the cook in making these arrangements, he will do wisely, on more accounts tlian one." He ■ observes further, "Cooks in general are averse to all new inventions; and this is not surprising, and ought by no means to be imputed to them as a fault. Accuslomed to woik with their own tooU, they naturally feel awkward and embarriissed wlieu others aro :i V .3