439 VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Chap. VII. to supply the market as required, and there are few individuals who in the wmter season do not occasionally regale themselves with a few dozen of these reptiles, which are made into dishes hi°-hly prized by the gourmands. There are even some houses where they may always be had in the choicest condition, dressed with the greatest care, and sold at a great price. . 229-1. Tlie common frog is much inferior, but is also eaten occasionally, and is sometimes fraudulently substituted for the other species. 2295. The bullfrog {Rana taurina, Linn.) of warm climates is considered equal to the turtle. . . 2296. The toad is often here supposed to be poisonous, though this is doubtful: it is a very harmless creature; but, from its ugliness, excites disgust, and is not desired as food. Among the negroes, however, it is said to be eaten without any bad consequences. 2297. Insects. Few insects are used as food. The locust is, however, consumed in great quantities, which affords some compensation for the ravages it occasions. In Abys- sinia, and among the Moors of Barbary, they are eaten both fresh and salted, and some are di-ied in the sun. Niebuhr informs us that in Arabia they preserve them in the same manner, and they consider them a delicacy, their taste resembling that of a crayfish. Among the natives of South AfVica they are made into a kind of soup. Diodorus Siculus describes the natives of Ethiopia as feeding upon locusts. This explains what we are told of John the Baptist, who lived upon locusts and wild honey. Many insects, however, are of a poisonous nature, and it is remarkable, that as we descend in the grades or classes of ani- mals both of land and sea, the number increases of those which are unfit for human food. CHAP. vn. ON VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Sect. I. GENEKAX, VIEW OF THE CONSTITUTION OF VEGETABLES. 2298. The larger portion of the food consumed by the human race is, perhaps, derived from the vegetable kingdom. We learn from the sacred writings, that vegetable food was the first employed by mankind; and ancient prp/ane writers, as Diodorus Siculus, iElian, and Pliny represent the primeval races of mankind, as ranging over the fields and woods in search of fruits and wild herbs. Wild peas and acorns are mentioned as constituting the greatest part of the food of the first inhabitants of Greece. The cultivation of corn, which is by Hesiod ascribed to Ceres, was an important step in civilisation ; and divine honours were paid to her on that account. In warm climates, fruits and other kinds of vegetable nutriment are produced spontaneously in great abundance, and several nations at present subsist almost solely upon this diet. 2299. Only a small part of the numerous tribes of plants are, however, available for food in their natural state: unlike the animal kingdom in this respect, the greater number of vegetables are useless as food, and many are extremely deleterious. The choice of vege- tables, therefore, for this purpose requires more precaution than that of animals. Bota- nical knowledge can often, point out those which may be considered as poisonous, and ' those which may be safely eaten; but in meeting with new or undescribed species, great caution should be used, and it may be prudent first to try their effects on quadrupeds. Although nature supplies the inhabitants of tropical regions with abundance of vege- table food, almost without the trouble of cultivation, yet that is not the case in temperate , climates. Almost all the esculent vegetables which are found in Europe have been intro- duced from other regions by the industry of man, and many of them may almost be con- sidered as the produce of art, since they have been gradually brought to the state in which we now see them by the gardener and agriculturist, who, by cultivation, have metamor- ■ phosed certain wild and unsavoury herbs into the delicious and varied produce of our gardens. Many of these changes have been brought about at a very early period in the history of mankind; for instance, the originals from which the varieties of cerealia, or corn plants, have been derived, cannot now be traced by the botanist in their wild state; and yet corn supplies all the civilised world with its chief article of food. Here we per- ceive the advantages which have accrued to mankind from the employment of their reasoning faculties. The whole of our cabbages and cauliflowers, whose leaves alone often weigh several pounds, have been acquired by the gradual transformation of the wild colewort, a plant of scanty leaves, not weighing more than half an ounce. From the sour sloe has been produced the delicious plum, and the austere crab has been transformed into an almost endless variety of apples, possessing the richest flavours, and the utmost beauty of colour. 2300. Some vegetables undergo extraordinary changes at diflFerent periods of their growth. F f 4