1234 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. present; the best treatment is the avoiding constipation by taking the confection of senna mentioned above, and using exercise, gentle at first, and afterwards more active. Respecting the limits of domestic and medical treatment, this must be left to the dis- cretion of each particular person. It is certainly better to be now and then alarmed unnecessarily than to overlook an important and latent disease : even a common cold, if suffered to run on without checking, brings no inconsiderable evils in its train, and the slightest chilblain, if treated improperly, may become an obstinate and unmanageable sore. SUBSECT. 14 • Cortis. 7260. These are chiefly caused by tight shoes ; the best plan is to soak the feet in hot ■water, and then for a corn-cutter or chiropodist to cut out the nucleus or core. Sdbsect. 15.— Warts. 7261. These are got rid of in various ways: some tie a thread round their base; but a. better plan is to have a piece of thick paper with a hole cut in it, the size of the wart; this is put over the wart, and then every morning a drop or two of the strongest acetic acid dropped through the hole upon the wart; if this do not succeed, dropping oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) in the same way will perhaps answer. SuBSECT. 16.—On the Limits of Domestic and Medical Treatment. 7262. Although disease in many instances cannot be effectually treated without pro- fessional assistance, yet the greatest aid in many cases is afforded to the physician by proper apprehension of his treatment, and by judicious fulfilment of his advice : we do not exaggerate when we say that in many severe diseases the prompt and skilful attention of a nurse or mother is of incalculable importance ; without it, the best directed efforts of medicine are rendered nugatory, while possessing it, the physician knows that all his endeavours are seconded in the most eflBcient manner. But this subject will be enlarged upon, when we detail the "Management of the Sick Room — Severe Diseases." Sect. II. COMMENCEMENT OF CERTAIN SEVERE DISEASES. 7263. It would be of little use to enter upon the detail of all the multitudinous Uls which demand medical assistance: we shall select a few of the more important, and bring these only under the attention of the reader. The commencement of the different eruptive fevers (small pox, scarlatina, measles, &c.) have already been mentioned. SuBSECT. 1.—Ague. 7264. This disease, extremely common in some districts, is scarcely known in others. It is caused by the exhalations of decomposing vegetable substances, and therefore is chiefly witnessed on the borders of marshes and low countries imperfectly drained, or occa- sionally flooded. In its severe form, it is a dangerous disease, as in the fevers of the Campagna of Rome, where a failing civilisation has suffered marshes to lie undrained, and has thus produced in modern Italy an intensity of disease unknown in the days of ancient Rome. The attack of an ague is unfortunately but too well known. At first the patient feels chilly and cold, heavy, and sleepy ; then speedily the cold feeling increases, until it becomes intense : the lips and cheeks become blue ; the skin becomes rough, (goose skin as it is called) ; rings drop off the fingers, which as well as the whole body are shrunk and diminished in size; there is shaking and trembling. After a variable time, the coldness diminishes, and is succeeded by flushes of heat, -which speedily become general; the skin is now as hot as it was before cold ; the face is red and swollen ; the pulse full, quick, with a degree of hardness ; the eyes are dry and red ; there is often intense headache and pain in the back. These symptoms, having continued at their acme for some time, gradually lessen, the skin becomes moist, and at length there occurs an universal and plentiful per- spiration, which reduces the heat of the skin, and, gradually ceasing, leaves the patient free from pain and fever, but languid, inert, incapable of bodily or mental fatigue. Siich is a description of a well-marked attack of simple ague ; there are numerous variations, which it would be useless to introduce. The course of an ague is as follows.—It has a disposition to return periodically, that is to say, at a determinate period : thus its attack comes on in the morning, and ceases after some hours; but recurs on the following morning, at the same hour; then again departs, and again makes its appearance at the same hour on the third day, and so on. Such a