423 FISH. Chap. VI. ■ 2202. The lesser weaver is more comuion on our coasts than the great weaver, and having the faculty of striliing -with its sharp spines is often called the sling Jlsli. SuBSECT. 32. — The Wolf Fish, or Sea Cat (Annarrkichas lupus. Linn.). 2203. This is almost exclusively a northern fish, taken in the north of Europe, the Orkneys, and the coasts of Yorkshire ami Norfolk. It h;is a ferocions-looking head, rcsemliling a cat, and is furnished with strong teeth with which it indicts severe wounds. Udoes much mischief to the Bshermcn's nets. Those who have eateii'it describe it as delicious; but few can overcome the |)rejudice excited by its appearance. The skin is very thick and strong, and is converted by the northern people into very durable bags. SuBSECT. 33. — T7ie Basse. 2204. T/ie basse is a marine perch, found along the whole line of the southern coast of England, and in the Bristol and St. George's channels ; also occasionally on the coast of Scotland. The ordinary size of this fish is from twelve to eighteen inches in length, though it sometimes attains fifteen pounds in weight. They- feed upon small fish and Crustacea;, and are caught by angling as well as the net. On the Kentish coast they are known by the name oS sen-dace. They generally spawn near the mouths of rivers, and live very well In Mr. Arnold's fresh water lake in Guernsey. They are fish of a good flavour, although by some reckoned coarse. SuBSECT. 34. — The Sea Bream (Pagellus centradontus, Cuv.). 2205. This is not an uncommon fish on the south coast of England, and may be fre- quently seen during the summer in the fish-market of Hastings : they are abundant in Cornwall. The young fish are commonly known by the name of chads; and it is said that the fish spawns twice in the year. It is not much in esteem for the tcble. Mr. Yarrell recommends the following as the best mode of dressing the sea bream : —" When thoroughly cleaned, the fish should be wiped dry, but none of the scales should be taken off. In this state it should be broiled, turning it often, and if the skin cracks, flour it a little to keep the outer case entire. When on table, the whole skin and scales turn off without difficulty, and the muscle beneath, sat\irated in its own natural juices, which the outside covering has retained, will be of good flavom-." StTBSECT. 35.— The Lump Sucker (^Cyclopterus lumpus. Linn.). ' 2206. This fish is sometimes seen at the fishmongers', hung up as a curiosity. It is ' eatable, but has no particular good quality. SuBSECT. 36. — Dog Fish (Squalus canicular, S. Catulus, Linn.). 2207. These fish belong to the shark tribe, and several species aboimd on our coasts, where they are very destructive to the fish, being extremely voracious. They are taken I frequently in the nets with other fish, but are seldom used as food, being very full of oil, : and strong tasted ; nevertheless, in the northern parts of the kingdom, as in the Orkney : and Shetland Islands, they are dried in the smoke, and even looked upon as dainties by I the poorer sort of inhabitants. SdBSECT. 37. — TJie Whale. 2208. The whale being the largest of all animals, we miglit suppose that its flesh is too coarse for food : I that, however, is not the case. This animal, being one of tlie mammiilia, suckling its young with milk, and I breathing air without separ.ating it from the water hy means of gills, is not properly a fish, and its flesh is 1 much like beef. Parts of the animal, particularly about the tail, are said not to be contemptible as food even 1 by those w'bo are not pressed by hunger; and some species, as the spermaceti wliale, are very generally ( consumed by the Greenlanders, and other inhabitants of the arctic regions. ^ SuBSECT. 38. — The Porpoise. 2209. The porpoise was once a favourite at the tables of the great in this country, and was eaten with 1 a sauce composed of vinegar, bread-crumb, and sugar. The flesh of the young has been compared to vcal; 1 but at present, instead of its being *' food for kings," not a beggar will touch it. ' SuBSECT. 39. — The Dolphin. 2210. The dolphin, though celebrated by the poets for its gambols, does not appear to be at present as much iTalued as formerly, when we read of an English feast consisting of a " roasted dolphin with proper sauce." Sect. III. I-RESH-WATER FISH. SuBSECT. 1 The Salmon {Salmo sulur. Linn), 2211. The salmon is styled by M'alton, the celebrated angler, " king of fresh-water fish." lit is to be found all over the north of Europe and Asia, from Britain to Kamtschatka I but never ventures into the warm latitudes : it has been met with on the coasts of Green- E e 4