BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 628 called vino virgine. In England the quantity employed and the state of the fruit ■will ren- der this impracticable. 3531. It is essential to the success of the fermentation that the -water should he added in the right proportion, in order that the fluidity of the must may be sufficient. When Champagne is intended, there should be equal quantities of water and grape juice. 3532. The proportion of sugar added to the must will in some degree determine tlie strength of the -wine. Two pounds of sugar to a gallon of the mixture will yield a light wine of no great durability, resembling the lighter sorts of Champagne ; and three pounds of sugar will give a strength equal to the best sorts. Sugar from the cane is not exactly of the same species as that from the grape, as we have shown in another place ; but thb difference is not appreciable in the spirit produced from each of them. Yeast is not neces- sary ; but it is too common to add it. The phenomena of fermentation having been amply described in previous^ parts of this work, we need not repeat what has been said. 3533. For brisk wine the must should be put into the cask at once, as the fermentation there will be sufficient. The best temperature is about 62°. The time employed in the fermentation must depend upon a variety of circumstances, as the weather, the composition of the must, and the sort of wine to be made ; of course it must be regulated by a know- ledge of general principles and experience. 3534. The practice followed in France is described as follows : — " Tiie fermentation will sometimes not begin so soon as might be expected ; but the operator must not be impatient; it will not linally be less effectual because it has been more tedious ; and increasing llie temi)erature a little will generally produce a commencement, and continue it. If tlie fermentation should be too languid during its progress, it may be increased by agitating the cask, or by omitting to replenish it to the bung, so that the scum or head may be compelled to remain in the liquor. The first fermentation in the castas is violent, and the discharge of the yeast is encouraged for ten or twelve days by keeping tliem full to the bung-hole; it then becomes more moderate wheathe bung is put down, and a gimlet bole fitted with a spile is made by the side of it. When the cask is thus closed, the vent-hole is opened every day or two, according to the state ol the fermentation, for a space of eight or ten days, to allow the carbonic acid to escape. When this state is passed, fresh wine reserved for tlie purpose is poured in at the vent-hole about once a week for the first three or four weeks, according to its waste, so as to fill the cask; this operation is then performed at longer intervals, of a month or more, till the end of December, when the w ine usually becomes clear. It is afterwards decanted from the lees into a fresh cask, where it is fined with isinglass, in the proportion of half an ounce to a pipe : and this process of decanting is carefully executed in dry, clear, frosty weather. A new iermentation is now excited, by which the wine loses a portion of its sweetness, and becomes farther ameliorated. If it sliould prove too sweet, this first operation of decanting is not performed until the fermentation in tlie first cask has been rendered more vigorous, which is done by stirring up the lees, or rolling the cask ; and by this the sweetness is overcome, and the wine strengthened and improved. To insure the fineness of this wine, which is one of its essential properties, and to render it at the same time durable, it is, at the end of six weeks, decanted a second time into a fresh cask, and once more lined with half the quantity of isinglass ; it is then completed, and is put into bottles in March, clear dry weather being also chosen for this purpose. In the bottles the further fermentation will go on in a very slow and almost insen- sible manner, because the carbonic acid whicli is produced will be confined and absorbed and condensed by the wine, as it would be in water, by means of pressure, but will escape on decanting, with the appearance and noise which brisk wines exliibit, upon the same principle as when it escapes from soda water. This gas, being itself an acid, communicates an agreeable and peculiar acidulous taste, which constitutes one of the most valuable qualities whicli these wines possess. It can scarcely be necessary to observe, that this abundance of gas, though it adds to the briskness, is no proof of the strength of the wine, as this depends upon another principle, the alcohol. Tlic production, therefore, of brisk wines must be effected by so contriving the pro- cess, that a great quantity of carbonic acid gas shall be inclosed with the wine in the bottle. For this pur- fiose two fermentations are necessary ; the first, by which the juice of the fruit was converted into a vinous iquor, and during which tlie carbonic acid th.it was generated escaped ; and the second, much slower, which takes place in the bottle itself, and where the gas in consequence is retained, and constitutes the briskness of the wine. Notwithstanding all the above-mentioned care, a fresh deposit is sometimes formed in the bottles, from a renewal of the fermenting process which goes on in them. To remove this, and to render the wines perfect, those of the best quality in Cliampagneare sometimes decanted clear into fresh bottles in about fifteen or eighteen montlis, when the wine is complete. A certain loss, amounting to about ten, thougli sometimes to twenty per cent, on an-average, is sustained by their bursting previous to this last stage. The brisk ones will be drinkable as soon as they have been six months bottled, or even less; but if of good body, they are better in the following, or even in the third year. After this, or should they from any cause lose their brisk- ness, they generally become dry wines resembling some of those of France, or of the Rhine and Moselle, while in this case they keep indefinitely, and proceed in improving." It is easy to perceive from this description of the mode of manufacturing brisk wines in Champagne, that our grapes, though the produce of a country not sufficiently warm to have this fruit of the first quality, may yet be quite sufficient for the purpose of making brisk wine, or even dry wine of good quality, if great strength be not required. Those wines only which are capable of continuing in a state of slow fermentation for along time can be bri.sk. The richest juices, therefore, which contain the greatest quan- tity of saccharine matter, are not calculated to form bri.sk wines ; on the contrary, these are prepared best from fruit that lias not quite ripened. For the fabrication of such wines, much of the natural fermenting principle is necessary, which is most abundant in unripe fruits, a fact which must be well known to those who attempt to imitate Champagne wines by gooseberries, since the object, however easily attained by using the immature fruit, is nearly unattainable with the ripe. 353.'). A few ndriilionnl ili reel ions respectine the Jermenlalion of brisk wines may be useful. If tlip tempera- ture be less than 02°, the fermentation will be too feeble; and if much higher, it will be too r.ipid, aii<l there will be Kreat danger of its running into the .icotous stage. If the quantity of must be small, a gre.-itpr degree of heat Is necessary than when it is large, because the heat excited by this process mrrcases with the quantity of the Huid .Strong musts will also bear a higher temperature than weak ones, as the alcohol produced has the power of checking fermentation, and also of preventing the wine from hocoming acid. It is not uncom- mon in the manufacture of domestic wines, that, from not attending .iccuratoly to the temperature, it is suffered to rise too high, and, consequently, some acetic acid is generated, which cannot afterwards be got rid