CANDLES. 133 I Chap. III. sstated to be used in Moldavia for making candles ; but it is inferior to bees' wax, and is cof a brown colour, but may be bleached. 609. The turpentine of fir trees is used for burning in lamps in countries where it is ! plentiful, and where the people are unacquainted with the manufacture of candles, as is I the case in the Landes in the south of France ; but it gives a great deal of smoke. 610. The essential oil of turpentine gives also too much smoke and smell to be used in 1 lamps by itself, and is likewise too inflammable and volatile : but a mixture of turpentine uund alcohol gives a dense and brilliant light, although alkohol by itself yields a feeble t flame. This mixture has likewise been used for lamps under tea-kettles and tea-urns, \with incombustible wicks of asbestos, or fine wire, or cotton : it is cheaper than spirit of \wine alone, and gives no stains ; but it is not altogether free from smell. 611. Large splinters of resinous wood are used in many countries, and have been used, tno doubt, from the earliest periods, among the lower classes, instead of candles. This is t frequently done in Ireland, where, in the bogs, large quantities of pine are found deeply t buried, and which have lain there for many ages: when dug up, these are rended like I laths, and dried, when they burn readUy, giving a good deal of flame and light, and are I used in their dwellings by multitudes of the peasantry, particularly in the province of 1 Ulster. Similar slips of resinous wood are used also in North America, and in the High- ; lands of Scotland. Sect. VI. BITUMINOUS SUBSTANCES USED FOR LIGHT. 612. Bituvien is a very inflammable substance, and is extensively employed in some I countries for procuring light by burning it in lamps. It is a natural substance found • in two states, petroleum and naphtha. These issue from the eatth in springs, and are col- 1 lected in wells. Petroleum is blackish brown, about the consistence of common tar, and 1 has a strong disagreeable odour. Naphtha, when pure, is colourless, and thin as water, t but having the same bituminous odour as petroleum. It is more rare than petroleum: : and the latter is supposed to proceed from the naphtha having imbibed oxygen from the :air. Pure naphtha consists of only hydrogen and carbon, without any oxygen ; but the : latter element is one of the constituents of petroleiun. Naphtha is highly volatile and 1 inflammable; it may be procured from petroleum by distillation, and appears to have the ! same relation to it, as the essential oil of turpentine has to the crude turpentine as it I comes from the tree. Both these fluids are found in vast abundance in Persia and the IBirman empire, where they are the only substances burned in lamps for light. They : are likewise met with in some parts of Italy; and are employed for this purpose in the (city of Genoa, Modena, &c. The wells of petroleum in the Birman empire are said to }yield 400,000 hogsheads annually. Naphtha aifords a bright white flame, but the bitu- I minous odour is unpleasant. 613. Lately a liquid has been procured by distillation from coal tar, having most of die ipropertics of naphtha, and which is, indeed, nearly identical with that substance : it is I employed as the solvent of caoutchouc, and it is likewise used for burning in a peculiar 1 lamp; but it has a disagreeable bituminous odour. This coal naphtha must not be con- ! founded with the true naphtha mentioned above. Another substance is frequently sold under the name of naphtha, which is procured oy the (distillation of wood, in the process of making acetic acid or wood vinegar, and is known tto chemists by the name ot pyroligneous ether, and sometimes by that pyroxilic spirit. lit is highly inflammable, more volatile than spirits of wine, and burns very well in a 'spirit lamp: being cheaper than spirits of wine, it is sometimes used instead of it for 1 lamps; but what is advertised as naphtha, at 7s. 6c?. a gallon, is said to be a mixture of tthis with oil of turpentine. It affords a flame clear and brilliant; and has the advantage f of not giving any smoke, nor causing greasy stains by dropping. CHAP. in. CANDLES. 614. Candles, from their portability and other qualities, supply, upon the whole, the I most convenient and the most general mode of obtaining artificial light for domestic I purposes. Until lately, two substances only, wax and tallow, were known as materials I for candles : spermaceti was next introduced, and at present various substances, as stearinc, ■ &c. are added. K 3 .