Chap. IV. DOMESTIC WINES. C25 The taste for sweet wines was considerable, and we find that the malmseys of Candiu and the ricli^wines of Greece and Spain were much in request. 3515. In the time of Queen Eliznlieth, no less than fijhj-si.v kinds of foreign wines irere im- ported, French, Italian, Spanish, Canary, Cyprus, Malmsey, &c.; and this profusion dis- played on the table was not confined to England, but was seen in Scotland also. Most probably the dissolution of political bonds between England and the French pro- vinces which she lost might have diminished the facility of importation, and the consumption of Bordeaux wine ; we find that afterwards the strong wines of Spain came more into use; and early in the sixteenth century, they had almost superseded the milder growths of France. In the reign of Elizabeth and James I., " your sack was the only drink;" and there has been much diversity of opinion as to the class of wines those called sackS"ljelonged. It appears that the name was originally applied ta certain white wines of Spairi,"and was a corruption of seek, or sec, signifying a dry wine. The original sack was probably not unlike sherry ; and this name came afterwards to include similar wines, as those of Malaga and the Canaries, with malmseys and other sweet wines, which probably had at that time the same character by which they are at present distinguished. But although these wines were held in the greatest estimation, the light wines of France and the Rhine were still much in use, until all commercial intercourse with France ceased during the long wars with Louis XIV., which gave rise to the introduction of the wines of Portugal, the history of which we have already given when describing the wines of that country. Nevertheless the cultivation of the vine was continued in England during the reign of Queen Elizabeth ; and Barnaby has pointed out the vineyards of Lord Cob- ham and Willienus of Thames as eminently productive. 3516. About the end of the fifteenth century agriculture teas more attended to, and malt became more plentiful; the hop was likewise introduced into the country, which gave rise to a great improvement in the ale, and rendered it a beverage accessible to the people .generally. From this, and the high duties laid on wine, the use of the latter gradually declined, and malt liquors were more used. 3517. We have several well-authenticated accounts of wine having been made in England at • a period not very far back. In the " jSIuseum Rusticum " it is stated that at Arundel Castle iin Sussex, the Duke of Norfolk had a vineyard which annually yielded considerable I quantities of wine ; of which there were in His Grace's cellar, in 1763, above sixty pipes 1 of wine resembling Burgundy. Bradley informs us that Warner, a gentleman of Rother- Ihithe, made good wine from his own vineyards. Switzer mentions several instances, and aamong others that of Rocque, of Waltham Green, who made wine for thirty years from a \ vineyard he had planted in a common field garden. Hanbury and Hales confirm these laccounts, and cite others. It is said that Dr. Ralph Bathurst, president of Trinity College, Oxford, made as good claret in 1605 " as could be wished for." But the best account we have of an English vineyard of modern times is that by Sir IE. Barry, the author of a work on wines, in which he describes a very productive one fformed by the Hon. Charles Hamilton at Painshill in Surrey, about sixty years ago, from which excellent wine was made. We shall give the whole account as an authentic docu- nment when we treat of the practice of making English grape wine. Besides those eexamples on a great scale, abundant instances occur at present where individuals have imade for their families, and from their own grapes, wine equal to the generality of iimported table wines, and at less than one-third of the expense. 3518. The cultivation of the vine in Britain, though at present carried to a high degree of jperfeclion in hothouses for table fruit by the professed gardener, has been much less attended I to for the purpose of making wine than might be expected from what we have stated of tithe history of British wine. Mr. Iloare, to whom we are indebted for an excellent work oon the " Cultivation of the Grape Vine," and to which we refer the reader who wishes to iattempt it, observes that " vines are now cultivated in this country only under glass, upon Ikhe roofs of buildings, and against walls. The expense of growing the grapes under glass las such as obviously to place that method out of the reach of the mass of the people ; and rvineyard culture, now that it has fallen into disuse, is, perhaps, considered so nmch in the might of a commercial speculation, that those who possess the means of practising it are ddeterred from employing them, from an apprehension that the risk and uncertainty lattending it would prove more than sufficient to counterbalance its advantages. But the ccaltivation of vines on open walls being free from these and all other objections, presents lan advantageous method of producing grapes, which may be embraced by every person who has at his command a sufficient number of square feet of the surface of a wall." 3519. It has been supposed that the established fact <f numei-ou.i vineyards having (iformerly existed in England, demonstrates that our climate has deteriorated; but this opinion B«fi wholly without foundation : on the contrary, there is great reason for believing that Bkhe climate of Europe has for several centuries past been rather in a state of amelioration Bfrrom the clearing of woods, draining of marshes, and agricultural improvements. It must Bioe admitted, however, that from the uncertainty of our climate sucli crops would be