BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VHI. 710 common, wliicli is useful on occasioTi, but too tedious for a large family, as it holds so small a quantity. The portable coffee mill consists of a square box, either of mahogany or iron japanned, containing in the interior a hollow cone of steel with sharp grooves on the in- side ; into this fits a conical piece of hardened iron or steel, having spiral grooves cut upon its surface, and capable of being turned round by a handle. The coffee is put into a hopper, which conducts it into the hollow cone, where it is crushed by the motion of the solid cone as it revolves. The powder ground in this manner falls into a drawer below. 4062. When large quantities are wanted in a family, a coffee mill of a larger kmd, re- quiring less labour, is fixed against the wall; but the construction of the mill is generally the same. This is a necessary machine in every family, as the goodness of the coffee depends much upon its being fresh ground, which can only be insured by grinding it at home. Coffee ought to be ground fine, in order that the water may be enabled to pene- trate to the centre of the particles, and extract those parts upon which the valuable quali- ties of the beverage depend. It is not in general ground fine enough. \Vhen coffee is very highly roasted, so as to develope the greatest quantity of bitter aroma without burn- ing, it is rendered more difiicult to grind, for it then acquires an oily surface which causes the kernels to slip over each other, and hence they are not caught so readily by the teeth of the mill; but the powder, when obtained, is finer than if the coffee had been less roasted, because it is rendered more friable. Sect. V. PRESERVING COFFEE. 4063. Roasted coffee loses much of its flavour by exposure to the air; on the other hand it is said, that while raw it not only does not lose its flavour for a year or two, but im- proves by keeping. That the fine aromatic flavour of good coffee, and which is one of its chief recommendations, depends upon some principle that is extremely volatile, a little observation will render evident. If a cup of the best coffee be placed upon a table boiling hot, it will fill the room with its fragrance ; but the coffee when warmed again after being cold will be found to have lost most of its flavour. The fragrance diffused through the air is a sure indication in what manner it was dissipated ; and therefore it is evident that in preparing coffee every possible endeavour should be made to presei-ve this precious part of the beverage. To have coffee in perfection, it should be roasted and groimd just before it is to be used, and more should not be ground at a time than is wanted for im- mediate use ; or, if it be necessary to grind more, it should be kept close from the air. 4064. Count liuinford's apparatus for preserving the aromatic fragrance of ground coffee may sometimes be useful. It consisted of a cylindrical box made of strong tin, four and a half inches in diameter, and five inches in height, formed as accuratelj^ as possible within, to which a piston is so adapted as to close it very exactly, and when pressed down into it, to remain in the place where it is left, without being in danger of being pushed upwards by the elasticity of the ground coffee which it is destined to confine. This piston was com- posed of a circular plate of very stout tin, which was soldered to the lower part of an elastic hoop of tin, about two inches wide, which was made to fit into the cylindrical box as exactly as possible, and so as not to be moved up and down without employing some considerable force. This hoop was rendered elastic by means of a niunber of vertical slits made in the sides of it ; on the upper side of the circular plate of tin, which closed this hoop below, and in the centre of it, there was fixed a strong ring, of about one inch in diameter, which served instead of a piston rod, or handle for the piston. The cylin- drical box was closed above by a cover, which was fitted to it with care, in order that the air which was shut up within the box, between the piston and the cover, might be well confined. We may observe, that a wide-mouthed glass bottle will answer tolerably well, if a good cork, having a piece of gold-beater's skin, or leaf India rubber, on the lower side, be well fitted into the neck; or the lower part of the cork may be covered with wax. 406.'). Coffee readily imbibes exhalations from other substances, and thus often acquires a bad flavour : brown sugar placed near it will communicate a disagreeable flavour. It is stated that the coffee in the West Indies has often been injured by being laid in rooms near the sugar works, or where rum is distilled ; and the same effect has been produced by bringing over coffee in the same ships with rum and sugar. Dr. Moseley mentions that a few bags of pepper, on board a ship fi-om India, spoiled a whole cargo of coffee. Sect. VI. PREPARING BEVERAGES FROM COFFEE. 4066. The best method of preparing a beverage from coffee, or as it is termed, mailing coffee, is a subject that has received a good deal of attention, even from persons eminent