BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 524 82°; it is perfectly transparent and colourless, and only differs in its temperature from any ordinary spring. When the spring is warmer than the heat of the body, but not so warm but that the hand may be borne in them, they are called warm springs, as those of Bath, which are about 116°; above that' point, and to the boiling point, they are hill springs. Of the latter there are none in Britain. Thermal waters are generally pure, seldom saline ; occasionally, however, they are so, as at Carlsbad in Bohemia, where they have the temperature of 165°. In Iceland, there are several large springs which issue from the ground boiling hot, the most remarkable of which is that called the Geyser. Sect. V. WELL WATER. 2928. T7te water of wells, sometimes called pump water, when the wells are of great depth, is derived from springs ; therefore it is essentially the same as spring water, and like that must vary with every locality, being hard or soft, according to the various impregnations it has received. 2929. We stated, when treating of the choice of the situation for a house, the importance of having an abundant supply of good water. Frequently, to procure this, a well is to be dug, and upon tlie success of this experiment sometimes the decision on the situation depends. 2930. The probubility of finding water in any spot depends upon the geological structure of the surrounding district; and as this varies in different places, no rules followed by well-diggers in one district will apply to another. The experience of the well-digger is generally limited to a certain district, and he too often thinks that the observations which he has made in one spot will apply to all the world ; and this is very apt to mislead. 2931. The study of geology furnishes the only true guide Ln the search after the proper spots to sink wells in ; therefore the geological examination of the surrounding country should precede every other step to be taken with respect to sinking for wat-er. 2932. Wells are always sunk till they penetrate some loose stratum which is charged with water, and which is placed between two other strata impenetrable by it. 2933. Wells are of two kinds : 1. common shallow wells, wluch are often only reservoirs : 2. Artesian wells, or constantly flowing wells depending upon a high source. Shallow wells often penetrate a thin stratum or two, a, a, fig. 524. and enter another of ^.^liSiAuu. ^si^^ixui^ sand or some porous substance, b, b, in which water is con- ■ r-i-5Sira -^^----fL tained. When this stratum is pierced, water appears, and is _- called a spring. Should this not communicate with any ' —higher source, the water that drains into the well sunk down yyi-^.': to c will not rise upwards, and therefore it is necessary to sink this well deeper, so as to form a reservoir for the water that runs into it from the stratum b. In some cases, the well is a mere tank into which the water may ooze from the =" gravel on the surface. This is the case with most of the f shallow wells round London. The water of such weUs of no great depth are very apt to be contaminated by the various Fig. 624. substances in the soil, as iron, lime, and even putrid matters ; the two first would give them inconvenient properties, but the latter would render the water highly prejudicial. Many instances have occurred of disease being produced from bad water, and particularly in cases where churchyards have been suffered to contaminate the sources from which wells have been supplied, a circumstance which does not appear to excite so much alarm as it ought to do in the English metropolis. 2934. An Artesian well is a deep well sunk down as at ffiy. 523. to some stratum fed by a high source. When the stratimi with water is arrived at and pierced, the water suddenly rises in the well as high as the source of the spring, e, which may even be higher than the ground where the well is sunk, and then the water will pour out as a fountain or flow over. The deep wells in London are of this kind, and the water in them is remark- ably pure. The name Artesian is derived from the province of Artois in France, where, it is said, they were first executed. Wells of this kind are now become extremely common, since the operation of boring is often found suflScient. Sect. VI. RIVER WATER. 293.'). Biver water is composed partly of spring water and partly of rain water. The principal source of the water of rivers is mist and rain. The former, consisting of the masses of vapour called clouds, are condensed upon mountains, whence a thousand rills of transparent soft water which unite together into streams and rivulets, either flow into lakes or by their union compose great rivers. Since rivers wind through various regions of the earth, their waters will necessarily vary considerably in the substances which they