Book VIII. 674 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. account it is that water freezes sooner for liaving been boiled. Boiled water affords tlie most compact and beautiful ice. 3803. IVater which has just been producedfrom melted snow or ice is very nearly as cold as the ice itself before it began to tliaw ; for although it may be easily supposed that it must have imbil)ed much heat in order to tliaw, yet, by a singular fact in the economy of nature, this quantity of heat is not rendered sensible to the thermometer —a fact not only extremely curious, but very important to be understood. It is well known that ice may be mucli colder than the freezing point, but that, when its temperature rises to 32°, it begins to melt: it melts very slowly, and is imbibing heat the whole time ; and yet, if the thermometer be put in among the thawing ice or snow, it will still indicate only 32°, nor will any difference be perceived until a short time after the whole has been thawed ; so long as any ice remains unthawcd, no addition of heat will be ])erccived : what, then, has become of all the heat that iias undoubtedly been absorbed by tlie ice ? — that heat has entered the ice, but only for the purpose of converting it into water; and it remains in the water in what is called a latent state, so Ultimately combined with it that it cannot be separated, and is, in fact, essential to keep the water in its fluid condition: if the water be deprived of tliis heat it freezes; but, though the heat is given out again while the water is freezing, it is immediately carried off by the atmosphere, and diffused, so as not to be felt. It is this gradual absorption of so much heat by melting ice, that makes a thaw often colder than a frost. 3804. Cold has been imagined to be something positive, like heat, and that there are rays of cold like those ol heat; but this is an error. Cold is, in fact, notliing more than a very low degree of heat or temperature. CHAP. vin. ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 3805. The term spirit was formerly applied by chemists to all volatile substances collected by distillation. Three principal kinds were distinguished: inflammable or ardent spirits ; acid spirits ; and alkaline spirits: at present the name of spirit is almost exclusively confined to the first. 3806. The formation of ardent spirits {fortunately, we were about to say) cannot be considered as a necessary part of domestic economy, in its ordinary state in this country; and therefore, perhaps, the following account of it would not have found a place here, but from the obvious utility of understanding clearly the nature of all articles of domestic consumption, which it is impossible to do without referring to their mode of manufacture, and to the principles upon which their production depends. By this alone, likewise, we can be enabled to judge of the goodness or the bad qualities of tlie several articles. Sect I. HISTORY OF ARDENT SPIRITS. 3807. Although.the ancient nations were sufficiently acquainted with the art of pre- paring fermented liquors of various kinds, which necessarily contain alcohol or ardent spirit, and though they used many methods for rendering their wine more potent, yet they did not possess the means of procuring from it, in a separate form, the pure alcohol in which the intoxicating property resides. Neither Pliny, who left a treatise on wine, nor any others of the ancient Greek and Roman authors who have written so much in praise of the fermented juice of the grape, make the least mention of its spirit, which certainly would not have escaped notice had it been known in their time. Galen, a century after Pliny, speaks of the aroma or essential oil obtained from fruits and flowers, but is silent on the distillation of ardent spirit. The discovery of the art of distillation, which may well be said to form an era in the history of mankind, appears to have been made by the Arabian alchemists of the twelfth century, in their search after the elixir of life. The art of extracting a spirituous liquor from wine was long kept a secret, and was in the sole possession of the physicians, who em- ployed it only as a medicine, ascribing to it the most extraordinary properties, and among others that of prolonging life — hence the name of aqua vita. Brandy, or the spirit dis- tilled from wine, was first produced, according to Le Grand, by Arnold de Villeneuve in Languedoc, as early as 1313, and it was then made into a liquor with aromatic spices. The art of distilling a cheaper spirit from malt was afterwards discovered, and seems to have been better understood, and more extensively practised, in Ireland, at an earlier period than in England, where ale and mead were the favourite beverages; but the Irish " usquebach " appears also at first to have been a sort of liquor with aromatics. AVliiskey is a corruption of usque, and in 1560 was made in the Highlands of Scotland as well as in Ireland.