74 ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. was not invented by Count Rumford, as has been erroneously stated by a late popular author ; on the contrary, he considered it as extremely faulty as it was then executed, its name was derived from a moveable plate of iron a little way above the fire, by which tlie draught could be regulated, and which could be shut down altogether in summer to keep out the soot or dust. These grates were frequently got up in an expensive style, with much polished steel and other ornaments. They had the effect of preventing smoke, bu: with the inconvenience of throwing out little heat in proportion to the fuel which they consumed. "We have already described the principal improvements made by Count i Rumford in our chimney fire-places; and several small grates were cast and put up under his direction. But he was not a manufacturer ; and though he gave to the public, in his " Essays," the philosophical principles on which they should be constructed, he left it to the manufacturers to invent beautiful forms; and had the first been as well understood as the latter, we should have reason to be better satisfied. I 334. The best of our modern grates are combinations of the old register stove, and the Rumford improvements. They have always an ornamented frame to fit the inside of the marble chimney-piece, and a register in the throat. The fire is brought low, or near to the hearth. But the fenders are frequently made preposterously high, which stops much of the heat from that part of the floor where it would be the most useful. 335. It was a doctrine first taught by Count Rumford, that the great quantity of iron usually put into grates abstracts much more heat from the fire than it can give out to the apart- ment, and therefore occasioning a loss of heat and consequently a waste of fuel. This is certainly quite true in principle; and it is by reference to principles, that the merits of inventions or constructions are to be determined. But it must in candour be admitted, that in our houses we have other circumstances to consider besides economy, or even the most efiective sort of fire. A great attention to elegance in fiimiture is now the order of the day : this is considerably influenced by the nature of materials; and many persons will give up something of economy for the sake of appearance. Here is therefore another principle involved besides the saving of fuel. Besides, what would be extremely proper for a person of small income, might not be suitable for the drawing-room of a person of fortune; even in the houses of the latter class, fire- places for the various apartments require to be fitted up on principles suited to their situations. Various materials are used in our best grates, cast iron, wrought iron, polished steel, brass, and bronze ; and several of these are often happily combined. Iron has undoubtedly many bad qualities when used in great quantity about a fire ; and were economical principles alone considered, the less of it employed in a grate the better. But it can easily be cast in a great variety of ornamental forms ; and it has the advantage of great neatness and durability, qualities which generally weigh against every thing that can be said against it. Brick or stone cheeks in the grate are by much the best for the fire to burn against; and those who are anxious to have the best possible open fires, we advise to have them. But the ironmongers abhor them ; verj' few will keep them ; and still fewer recommend them. Hence they are difficult to procure ; and to adapt them to grates, is expensive on this account; nor are they so durable as iron. Replacing them when they crack and burn out is attended with trouble ; and most persons will rather waste a few coals with grates having iron sides, than follow advice which few imderstand. Besides the great trouble of keeping polished steel in good order, there is an objection to having much of it in a grate, founded on a physical principle discovered by the late Pro- ifessor Leslie ; which is, that bright polished metallic surfaces, though they reflect heat well, throw it off by radiation very imperfectly ; but if the same surface be rendered dull or rough, the radiation is immediately augmented. According to this principle, it has become a practice to grind flat with emery certain parts of the surfaces of the best grates, and to leave them in that unpolished state. : 336. Improved register grates of Itumford forms, with frames, are also now made entirely of cast iron at very reasonable prices. j The smaller grates, called Bath stoves, the hobs of which are so convenient, are too well i known to require illustration, and though wholly of iron, are yet useful from their cheap- ness and portability. Upon the whole, though excellent fires may be made in some of the best grates now to b<j seen in the show-rooms of the ironmongers, yet we are much afraid that the prevail- ing rage for novelty, causing good models to be laid aside, which have been improving for years, may occasion new forms to be attcmi)ted without sufficient knowledge of prin- ciples. We are led to make these remarks from the disappearance of many grates of excellent construction and good taste, to make way for others loaded with the now fasliionable ofnaments of the time of Louis XIV. It should never be forgotten that the real use of a fire grate is to warm the room ; and if it fails much in this essential, the deficiency will be ill compensated by any other quality which ought to be subordinate to the main object. 337. In common language, the necessary distinction between a fire grate and a stove is