HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI 346 by raising the dust from one lodgment only to send it into another, instead of rolling it gently along until a mass is collected sufficient to be swept into the dust-pan and carried o£F. Before beginning to sweep, the housemaid should close the doors and windows ; and, by throwing sheets over the furniture of the room, protect it from any lodgments of dust! The floor, whether carpeted or uneovercd, must be witli prodigal hand sprinkled over with moist tea leave? Let the housemaid remember that the tea leaves should nut be mouldy, or tliey will impart no pleasant fresh ness to the air of the room, nor dried, or they will bo useless in catehiUK the dust. TakinL- her broom she must hrst sweep gently the dust collected under the furniture, b(!ds, drawers, &c.; and, when sweepine in the open room, she should avoid lifting her broom hastily or high above the ground, which would impel the dust upwards, but she should endeavour to check its rising, while she quietly and gently rolls the mass of leaves and dust into one spot, from which she can most readily sweep it into her dust-pan. IG.i*. Alter sweeping, the essential work of dusiing siiould be done. The window-curtains, which had been lifted up considerably above the floor during sweeping, should now bo released, opened, shaken brushed with the proper brush, and properly arranged over Ihe hooks or bands for the d,iy. Tables, sofas, with all the varieties of chairs and seats now in use, are then to be carefully dusted and arranged. Ledges of wainscots panels of doors, and window panes, innst be swept with the snudl bi ush called the banister brush. Mirrors' and pictures with gilded frames, must be brushed wMhJfalhers or sitk dusters. A linen rubber spoils them ' 1G39. Cliimney-piece ornaments must be carefully removed, and the mantel-piece either wiped free from dust, or washed with cold soap and w ater; the ornaments, before being replaced, must be carefully wiped with a fine linen duster. l(il(). Sweeping is in most country plai'es a d^iily business, neither bed-room nor parlour being considered as properly done if this be neglected. In Loudon, where the necessity for sweeping daily is still more urgent it is customary to sweep the bed-rooms twice, and the sitting rooms only once, a day. ' 1641. Under beds, wardrobes, and other immovable furniture, every particle of dust should be cleared away each day, either by employing a clean damp mop kept for the purpose, or a damp scouring flannel. 1642. For sweeping hoarded floors, tJie common hair broom is used, ■which, costs in pur- chasing from 3s. to 4.s'. 1643. The carpel broom, or whisk brush, is made of the dried leaves of a tough grass. It is not desirable to sweep the carpet with this broom more than once a week, being rather too harsh for daily use. But after a carpet has been well swept with it, the common hair broom will keep it sufficiently clean for several days. The drugget brush, a short-haired broom, answers for stair carpets, and for rooms covered with drugget. SuBSECT. 2.— Cleaning and Preservation of Carpets. 1644. Carpets, thirty or forty years ago, were regularl}' taken up during the summer months, and, after being well beaten, were rolled up and deposited in some convenient part of the house till autumn ; the floors, in the meantime, being only partially covered with oil cloth or matting. This custom rendered scouring and dry-rubbing matters of more importance than they are at present, when sitting and even bed-rooms are generally entirely covered with carpets, at all seasons during which a house is occupied by a familj'; but it is requisite to have them occasionally taken up from the floors and well beaten, if possible, in a field. 1645. The periods at which this beating of carpets should occur must depend on the convenience of every family. 1646. D7-awing and dining-room carpets are, in some houses, taken up and beaten twice in the year, in the spring and autumn; in others only once, under the idea that the frequent beating weakens the texture of the carpet. The best mode by which frequent beatings might be avoided would be to turn the carpets up once a week and sweep under them ; but the manner in which they are now uuiversally fastened down renders this next to impossible. 1647. In former days, carpets were not made to cover the whole room, as at present, and which renders it necessary for them to be closely and firmly nailed to the floor, but were wove, as the Turkey carpets and Axminster still continue to be, square, or nearly so; and, being loose, could, without much additional trouble, have the dust which collected beneath them frequently cleared away ; which, with the floors being oftener washed than at present, tended materially to preserve cleanliness in the texture of the carpets. 1648. Bed-room carpels it is desirable to have made in such a manner as to admit of being frequently taken up and shaken well in a yard or garden. When this can be done, it should be as frequent as twice a week. In fine weather, bed-room carpets should be occasionally hung out on cords and beaten with small sticks or canes. 1619. Orense in carpets may be removed with spirits of turpentine, as well as by fullers' earth, or by soda, ox-gall, and pipe-clay ; carpets cleaned by the dyer cost from 6rf. to 8d. per yard. (Sec more on the subject of cleaning carpets in Chap. II., Book XXII.) SuDBECT. 3.— Cleaning Grates, Fire-irons, Fenders, ^-c. 16.50. Parlour and drawing-room grates, being of various kinds and forms, require difTercnt modes of cleaning. Fire-irons and fenders, of polished steel, and such parts of grates as are of the same material, should never, in cleaning them, be touched with any substance that has sufiicient roughness to scratch their surface : to preserve their polish