ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 46 IIOOK 1. smoothed -with a flat tool of wood called a float, is termed Jloatimj. The setting, or third coat, is done with fine stuff, to which is sometimes added a little plaster of Paris, to make it dry quicker and be firmer for the paper. The lath and plaster for partitions of quartering, likewise for ceilings, is done in the same manner. It is to be observed that, previously to the plasterer beginning to lay his several coats of plaster on walls, the joiner must fix his grounds, which are pieces of wood nailed to the bond timber and wood bricks, projecting as far from the wall as the finishing of the plastering ; and to these grounds he afterwards naUs his skirtings, architrave mouldings of doors, windows, &c. 164. Stucco for inside walls or partitions is composed of fine stuff with fine washed sand, in the proportion of one part of the latter to three of the former; and sometimes, if it is required to dry in a short time, it is gauged, by mixing a little plaster of Paris. The best stucco for apartments and staircases is laid on a floated ground, and is worked very even with a large trowel, till it is as smooth as glass: if the stucco is not perfectly flat, the irregularities will appear where it is painted in oil: this is called trowelled stucco, and is the fittest for painting upon. 165. Cornices, if they are large, are first begun by fixing wooden brackets in the angles, and covering those with laths which receive a coat of common plaistering: afterwards the mouldings are run in a fine mortar by a mould made of a piece of wood cut out to the profile of the drawing given; and they ai-e finished by fine stuff. When there are ornaments in the cornices they are cast in plaster of Paris, in short lengths, and fixed up by the plasterer in the places aUotted for them. The modelling of these ornaments in the first instance, from drawings made by the architect, requires to be done by persons of great skill and practice, who have devoted themselves to this branch of art. 166. Ceilings were, some years ago, very much enriched with paintings and ornaments in plaster; but much labour appears to have been thrown away in this practice, as it is painful to look up at such ceilings. There is now seldom more done than to put a large flower in the centre to hang the lustre or lamps from ; and this flower is best made of papier-machee: between the leaves of this ornament there may be apertures for ventilation. Cornices are likewise much reduced from what they were in old houses; and friezes below them are in general totally omitted: all which adds much to the apparent height and lightness of the apartment. 167. Whitewashing, or colouring, is the last operation on ceilings, and this is sometimes used in other places. Whitewashing is done with whiting made from chalk. Balls of whiting are broken in water; and this is best done over-night. To take off from the glare of the white, a little blue-black is sometimes added for ceilings. A quantitj' of warm dissolved size is put to this, and the whole is well stirred in a pail. The white- washing is laid on with a large flat brush. AVhen old ceilings are whitewashed, it is difiicult sometimes to hide the stains ; the best way is first to wash and scrape oS with a troweU the old whiting and dirt, the surface being wetted with a flat brush, and to stop up all the cracks and defective places in the old work. In cornices, some pains is neces- sary in scraping out the leaves and ornaments. The celling must dry thoroughly after this operation before the whiting is attempted. If no size can be had, a little carpenter's glue, boiled to the consistence of size, will serve as a substitute: or potatoe starch will answer. SuBSECT. 2. — Floors. 168. The flooring boards are never put down tUl the carcass and roof are quite finished, and the temporary windows put up to keep out the weather; but the boards are sawn, rough planed, and set up to dry and season thoroughly, which generally requires a year. Oak was formerly used for the best floors, and was often laid in curious patterns, called marquetry ; but this is now out of fashion in this countr}', the universal use of carpets having superseded it, and indeed rendered the appearance only of the boards of less con- sequence, regard being had chiefly to the floor being perfectly level and tight, on which account it is essential that the boards do not warp or shrink after they are put down, either of which circumstances proves injurious to the carpets. The best wood in general use is yellow deal; white deal is softer, and does not wear so well. It is also required in the best floors that they shall be of clean deal, that is, without knots, sap, or other blemishes. The boards are laid down and put together in various ways, according to the kind of apartments and the expense to be incurred. In the commonest rooms they are simply nailed to the joists ; but in better apartments, to prevent water from passing through to destroy the ceilings of the rooms below, they are rebated, that is, the edge of one board is ploughed with a groove, into which the rebate of the next board is inserted. See fig. 46. Wlien the boards are not all of one width, and are laid down in a particular manner several at a time, the floor is called folded: this is only practised in the cheapest and commonest floors. _ When the joints of the boards are all continuous, the boards being all '''H-