lira POULTRY. JUAP. VI. 1 ocality. They have sometimes been fattened in the same manner as green geese, by tliose ,vho choose to try them at table ; in severe weather, in winter, they require being fed. Sect. VIII. PEACOCKS AND PEA-HENS. 6983. The pea-fowl require the same treatment as turkeys. Though formerly brought I ;o table, they are not eaten now, their flesh being coarse and ill-flavoured; they a,re ! ;herefore kept only for ornament. The tail, which is so eminently beautiful, comes to its ; ;ull size when the bird is three years old ; and some peacocks live twenty years. They ^ iubsist on the same food as domestic fowls, but "prefer barley ; and though they are very I'ilestructive in gardens, yet they are useful in destroying all kinds of reptiles. In her 1 latching, the hen has the same habits as the turkey, and the pea-chicks are extremely icender. It is necessary to keep the peacock from having access to the young, as he is apt I -.0 kill them; and he will kill young chickens in the same way. Sect. IX. PHEASANTS. 6984. As this bird has not hitherto been perfectly domesticated, and as the flesh of ihhose brought up in the house is much inferior to that of the wild pheasant, they are bred i bhiefly for show only, for the park, or for very recluse scenes, .which they will not r -eadily leave if well fed and not much disturbed. Their beautiful plumage renders them A pery interesting. 6985. To stock a pheasantry the general mode is to procure eggs from some establish- iment of this sort, or sometimes they are found in the woods: these are set under a hen i! hat has kept the nest three or four days; a bantam is best. When the hens have sat i .heir full time, which is from twenty-three to twenty-seven days, the young pheasants ;ns they are hatched should be put into a basket with a piece of flannel; after the first day tihey should be put under a frame with a net over it, with a separate place for the mother; ibhey should be fed with boiled eggs cut small, boiled milk and bread, alum curd, ants' i sggs; a little of each sort, and often. After two or three days they will be acquainted iiwith the call of the hen that hatched them, and may have their liberty to run about, I sbserving to keep them out of the sun and the cold winds. It is proper to choose I: I situation for a pheasantry where they may be well protected from dogs, foxes, &c. IThose young birds that are intended to be turned out wild should be taught to perch, by Hying a string to the hen's leg and obliging her to sit in a tree all night tUl she becomes aiiccustomed to this situation. The young birds will follow the hen and perch with her. IThose for breeding are to be put into a pen, having their wings clipped : such as are to be tcurned out are put into another pen netted over, and having their wings untouched. When liirst penned, the birds must be fed with dough of barley meal, corn, and plenty of green icuiTiips. As the birds are fond of ants' eggs, some should be procured if possible ; and some poersons make artificial ones by rolling flour beaten up with an egg. Great cleanliness naiust be observed with respect to pheasants. Hen pheasants seldom succeed in rearing their brood through their extreme shyness ; ^^ut to induce them to do so a retired place must be provided, well sheltered by trees, and Iriaving a supply of water. Pheasants appear to show great partiality for marshes near ihhe sea, or cliff's with any furze or cover for them and which join the salt water; for, like I'pigeons, they are great lovers of salt. In such advantageous situations Mr. Daniel says ikhey can be retained plentifully, provided they have abundance of food with perfect ijjuiet; and that, when reared with common fowls, they sometimes become very tame. Sect. X. AVIAKY. 6986. This is a house for keeping birds that do not come under the description of ppoultry : such as gold and silver pheasants ; partridges; quails; red, black and wood ggrouse ; turtle-doves and the rarer pigeons ; Muscovy ducks ; Canadian geese ; bustards ; pguUs; curious varieties of the fowl, &c.; also singing and other small birds. A large aiviai-y requires an inclosure of some extent — perhaps an acre or two — and in this must tibe the various houses for the different kinds of birds : these may be small rustic struc- ttures, provided with the conveniences of roosting places, nests, &c. Elegant aviaries may Hbe seen at Woburn Abbey, Bedfordshire; Cobliam Hall, in Kent; and Knowlesly Hall, nnear Liverpool. Some of the birds that are wild require to have small nests or inclosures ccovercd with netting to prevent their flying away, and to protect them from birds of prey. TThe construction of aviaries on a small scale is too evident to require particular descrip- lition : tliey must be inclosed with wire netting, and have the usual contrivances for liold- iiing food, drink, &c. ,