554 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL Sect. IV. AIXOHOL. 3126. AYe have mentioned that alcohol is the chief product of fermentation, and that it is the intoxicating principle in all fermented liquors; hut it is never produced in a free state hy this process. It is at first always mixed with water, mucilage, and some other of the constituent principles of the vegetable matter fermented, and from which it has been procured, as is the case with respect to wine, ale, or beer. 3127. We likewise stated that pure alcohol is exaclhj the same from whatever vcgetahlesit has been produced by the process of vinous fermentation, all that is necessary being that they should contain saccharine matter. For this purpose, a vast variety of saccharine vegetable substances are employed in different parts of the world, each country making use of those which it has in gi-eatest plenty, in order to produce a fermented liquor. Thus, in the south of Europe, the grape is chiefly used; in the East Indies, the juice of the palm affords an intoxicating beverage called toddy ; in the AVest Indies, the sugar- cane supplies rum ; with us, malted corn is the chief material. After the alcohol has been formed by fermentation, another process is necessary to separate it in a pure state from the substances with which it is combined in the fermented liquor; and this process is distillation, for the nature of which see Book VIII. Chap. VIII. Section 3. " Distillation." 3128. When the produce of fermentation is distilled, the spirit, being extremely volatile, rises in vapour, and is condensed by cold into a liquid : this, however, is not pure alcohol, for a quantity of water and other impurities rise with it. It is necessary, therefore, that this should be re-distilled, and go through other operations, before it arrives at that state in which it is called rectified spirit, or common spirit of wine, the purest condition in which it is manufactured on a large scale. By another distillation it becomes rectified spirit of wine. But this still contains some water, which must be separated in order to obtain pure alcohol, which, however, is never employed in beverage; it is only required hy chemists for pharmaceutical compounds, or for experiments, and other nice purposes. 3129. The method which chemists itsually employ to get rid of the water to procure alcohol is to mix the rectified spirits with a quantity of carbonate of potash heated to redness to expel all its moisture. This salt has a strong attraction for water, and the greatest pai-t of it is insoluble in alcohol. It accordingly combines with the water of the spirit; and the solution thus formed sinks to the bottom of the vessel, and the alcohol itself, which is lighter, swims over it, and may easily be decanted off; or, what is perhaps better, the solution of potash may be drawn off from below it by means of a stop-cock placed at the bottom of the vessel. The alcohol thus obtained contains a little pure potash dissolved, which may be separated by distilling it in a water-bath with a very gentle heat. AVhat now comes over is alcohol very nearly pure. Instead of carbonate of potash, substances having a strong attraction for water may be employed to purify alcohol, for instance, muriate of lime. The specific gravity as usually obtained is 0 800 ; but by great care, alco- hol has been obtained so low as 0 796, at the temperature of 60°, that of the least specific gravity being always the purest, as having the smallest quantity of water; equal quan- tities of water and alcohol constituting what is called proof spirit, the specific gravity of which is 0-917. 3130. The properties of pure alcohol are the following. It is perfectly colourless and limpid. It has a burning taste and peculiar, rather agreeable, odour. It is highly volatile, and it boils, or is converted into vapour, at 176°; consequently it is easily separated from water by distillation, as the latter does not rise into vapour till heated to 212 -. Like all volatile liquids, it produces a considerable degree of cold when any body is wetted with it, on account of its rapid evaporation: if the finger be dipped in it, on drying, the cold will be felt. It has been found impossible, hitherto, to freeze it with the greatest degree of cold that can be produced ; it has been tried by a cold 91° below the freezing point without rendering it solid ; hence it is employed for constructing thermometers. It is highly inflammable, burning with a lambent yellowish blue flame; the colour varying with the degree of strength, the bluish tint prevailing when its strength is greatest, and the yellowish as it is weaker. Its combustion is attended by no smoke, the only products being water and carbonic acid. When burning, it gives an intense heat, though the flame is so faint as scarcely to be distinguished in daylight. It unites with water in every proportion ; and the union is attended with a slight diminution of bulk and consequent increase of temperature. It acts as a powerful solvent on many of the substances belonging fo the vegetable kingdom; hence it is extensively useful in preparing liqueurs for the table, and in many processes in the arts. The principal substances which it dissolves are resin, sugar, manna, camphor, balsams, essential oils, the vegetable alkalies, tannin, and extractive matter. It also dissolves the deliquescent salts : but generally those insoluble in water are so in alcohol.