947 COOKING FOR THE INVALID. 3 P 2 EHAP. II. irevent the flour from settling at the bottom. When cold, add to it the yolk of an egg, rt-ell beaten, with a very small quantity of salt; tie it up very securely in a buttered teacup rr small f udding basin ; plunge it into a saucepan of boiling water and let it boil fast for aalf an hour, ft should be just firm enough to stand when turned out of the basin. 5569. Bread pudding. — Pour a cup of boiling milk on two table-spoonfuls of bread irrumbs ; when cold add the yolk of a beaten egg to it, and boil in a basin for a quarter of mn hour or twenty minutes. Cinnamon boiled in the milk, or a bruised bitter almond, ppgether with lemon-peel, may be employed as fliavouring ingredients. Arrow-root vuditine is made by mixing a table-spoonful of it in fold milk, tlien pouring it into boiling milk. Ii - must then be allowld to cool, when the yolk (well beaten) of an egg must be added, and the pudding must L-enut into abasin and boiled for ten minutes. All puddings for invalids, having eggs in them, should be boiled n 1 preference to being baked. Baking is supposed to render eggs less easy of digestion than boiling. ■ 5570 Tapioca. — This vegetable gelatine requires to be soaked very long in water, and afterwards steeped 111 milk In all other respects it is prepared like arrow-root, whether in the lorm of pudding or jelly. Sect. IX. I BLANCMANGES AND JELLIES FOR INVALIDS. 5571. Rice blancmange.— Steep a table-spoonful of rice in half a pint of milk for seven )rr ei^ht hours. If the milk dries up too much, more must be added, but it must be no more ;hhan'sufficient to make the rice soft and moist. Any flavour, either of almonds, lemon- poeel, cinnamon, or nutmeg, may be added. Wh^n the rice is entirely pulped it must be puut into a mould imtil cold, when it will turn out. 5572. Isinglass blancmange. — An oimce of isinglass dissolved in a pint of boiling milk irjid flavoured with bitter almonds, lemon-peel, &c., if boiled for some time together, will ["orm an agreeable nutritious blancmange for a convalescent. When put into a mould it thhould be stii-red occasionally until it begins to stiffen. 5573. Savoury meat jellies for convalescents. — Take the bones and gristle of a knuckle of veal, with about 1 ■• pound of the meat, the scrag end of a neck of mutton, half an ounce of isinglass, two blades of mace, a little ! alt, and a gallon of water. Boil it gently (scumming it very carefully) for five hours, or longer, if not re- iiuced to about a quart. Do not put the isinglass and mace in till the scumming is done. Strain the jelly i«way from the ingredients, and when cold remove the fat from the surface. A stiff jelly is thus procured, iishich is agreeable if eaten cold ; if warm, milk or wine may be mixed with it. ■5571. Another savourymeat jelly Chop a knuckle of veal and. a scrag of mutton, so that they may be plilaced one bone on another. Scrape and slice three carrots and two turnips, cut small a head of celery, Mutter slightly the bottom of a stone jar or a well-tinned saucepan. Lay in L-iyers the meat and vegetables (.Iternately, packing them closely together. Sprinkle over each a very little salt; cover the jar closely, and I put it into a slow oven for half an hour, then open it .nnd pour in as much hot water as will rover the ingre- II iients. Cover the jar again closely, quicken the oven, and let it remain in it for five hours. Strain the liquor I .way from the meat and vegetables ; when cold remove the fat from the surface, and the sediment from the I lott'om. The jelly will then be ready for use. It will not keep long unless boiled up again about the second L lay. 5575. Dr. Denman's receipt for Gloucester jelly. —Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of spring »vater ; bruise and add to the jelly half an ounce of nutmeg and half an ounce of cinnamon ; let all simmer in P.. new pipkin until the isinglass be perfectly dissolved ; strain it off, and set it in a cool place to jelly ; cut it Irn pieces, add a bottle of good old port, and the spice before boiled in it; sweeten it to the taste, and let it dimmer until the jelly be again dissolved, when it may be bottled and kept for use. Half a wine-glass may be laken at bed-time. — Observe, the wine must not be simmered in a saucepan, but in an earthen jar, put into II saucepan of cold wiiter, and set over the fire to warm gradually. 5576. Another wine jelly One quart of sherry, in which dissolve two ounces of isinglass (picked and Iwoken into small pieces), two ounces of white sugar candy (pounded), one nutmeg grated, one pennyworth >i>f gum Arabic finely pounded. Put these ingredients together in an earthen jar, and the jar into a vessel of • viiter, which must be suffered to warm gradually. When the isinglass and gum Arabic are dissolved, strain ihhe whole into a basin or deep dish ; keep it dry and cool, and let the invalid have a piece about the size of 11 nutmeg a few times in the day. .5577. It must be here remarked that these strengthening wine jellies are very much in disuse; isinglass, «ne of the animal gelatines, is no longer regarded as nutritious, and strong foreign wines are much more warely administered in the different stages of convalescence than they were a few years ago. 5-578. Carroeeen, or Irish moss jelly— Wash and nicely pick an ounce of this moss ; boil it in a pint and a f-jialf of water for twenty minutes ; strain it and nour it into a basin to jelly. For invalids, and for children ■ vhen weaned, it is an excellent food, mixed with warm milk. 5.579. Arrow-root jel/y—Put into a saucepan and boil together half a pint of water .ind one glass of ihherry, or a table-spoonful of brandy, a little grated nutmeg, and fine sug.ir. When boiling, mix with them lipv degrees a dessert-spoonful of arrow-root, previously nibhed smooth in a table-spoonful of cold water ; boil illll together for three minutes, and theti pour it into glasses or small cups. If the invalid is not .allowed to l^ake wine, the jelly may be flavoured with lemon or orange juice, or with the juice of any of the fruits which nnay be in season. 5.580. Tapioca jelly— Wash a table-spoonful of large tapioca in two or three waters; then let it soak tan fresh water for five or six hours ; in the Siime water simmer it till it becomes a clear jelly; and to Wavour it and render it palatable, any of the ingredients may be added to it with which arrow-root jelly is WaTourcd. 5581. Fruit jellies—Take the juice of three sweet or.inges and of twelve Seville oranges, and boil it with iiit« wcii^ht of sugar, and put it into jars or glasses for use. If required to bo very firm, dissolved isinglass may !■» put into the quantity required at a time for use. I'hc juice of bottled damsons added to dissolved isinglass makes an agreeable change occasionally for 'invalids.