Book XXV. 1158 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. at noon, and a little before sunset, leaving sufficient time for the animals to lie down and ruminate. 6860. The water given to cows should be of the purest kind ; and if taken from a cold spring should be warmed till it is of the temperature of the air in summer. Some recom- mend stirring a handful of meal in each draught occasionally. Having described the general principles of feeding and managing cows, it may be proper to state what has been found to be a judicious daily routine in the cow-house. 6807. The. daily business of the cow-house should commence at five in the morning, by removing the soiled jitter, cleaning out the manger, and putting into it the food to be given first, whether grass mixed'with a little h.iy, or any other ; the door should now be shut, and the cows left for an hour to eat their meal undisturbed. At SIX the milking may talce place, tiiking care to follow tlie directions to be afterwards given. After this is finished, the cows may be turned out into the yJird, or wherever they can take exercise, and have access to plenty of good water; and in the meantime the cow-house can be cleaned out thoroughly, and the manger scalded. At nine o'clock, when the cows are again put into the house, a mash may be given, consisting of half a bushel of grains to which has been .added a sulhclent proportion of water at asciilding heat in which has been boiled a quart of barley meal and a pint of malt dust; a table-spoonful of salt may be added, and the whole sull'ered to cool a little below blood-heat before it is given. At two o'clock the cows may have a second feed of the green food and any other vegetables with water, which may have a little meal stirred in. At four the second milking takes place, and at six a masli as before. At eight the litter is maile up for the night, and the manger, and rack, if any, supplied with green food and h,ay. The above-mentioned is the usual summer treatment of cows kept wholly in the house ; the winter treat- ment only differs in substituting various roots sliced, raw or steamed, with some hay, for the green food. The roots must be laid up in store in a cellar or some dry place where frost cannot touch them, in sufficient quantity to last for the season. A moderate-sized cow will consume from 80 lbs. to 100 lbs. of green food per day, and a bushel of roots per day in the winter. She will eat a truss of hay a week in winter, and half as much, if on the grasses, in the summer. 68 G8. 77ie cow goes between nine and ten months with young, and rarely produces more than one calf at a time. She should be dried off at a reasonable distance of time before the expected time of gestation be completed. If she be continued in mUk too long, it will injure her health as well as that of her progeny ; but this time will depend in a great measure upon her keep. In some cases they are run dry six weeks or a month before calving, while in others, where they are very well kept, they may be continued in milk without injury until a fortnight before the time ; when dry, they should be suffered to remain quiet, and should be well attended to. The time when thej' are near calving may be known by what is termed springing at the udder, or a collection of liquid in the bag, which assumes in some degree the appearance of milk and may be drawn from the teats. 6869. When the time of gestation draws near, the cow should be placed apart from other cattle for a week or two previous to her calving, and where assistance can be had when needed. Should this be neglected, the progress of the birth should be left as much as possible to nature, but in difficult cases we refer the reader to Mr. Youart's " Account of Cattle." In ordinary cases, he recommends that "a pint of sound warmed ale should be given in an equal quantity of gruel; warm gruel should be frequently administered, or at least put within the animal's reach; and access to cold water should be carefully prevented." Parturition having-been accomplished, the cow should be left quietly with her calf, which she then licks and cleans. A warm mash and gruel should be put before her, and slightly ■warmed. Two or three hours after, it will be prudent to give au aperient drink con- sisting of a pound of Epsom salts and two drachms of ginger; the calf should be suffered to remain with her, otherwise fever and inflammation of the udder may ensue; in case of the teats being sore, they should be fomented with warm water. In general things go on regularly, but should it be otherwise a cow-doctor or other skUful person should be called in. When from neglect a calf drops in the yard or field, there is a great hazard of its perishing, and this may considerably endanger the life of the cow. Should this happen, and the mother take cold, (which may bo known by her shivering and refusing her food.) she ought immediately to be driven into a warm place together with her calf, and fed with sugar sops and ale, and with the best and sweetest hay, and should not be sufi'ered to drinlc cold water. By this treatment she will most likely recover in a few days; but should the disease continue, recourse must be had to balls composed of aromatic cordial substances. CHAP. II. mLKING AND MANAGE5IENT OP MILK. 6870. Cows arc getieralli/ milked at stated intervals, twice in twenty-four hours, throughout the year. In some districts they are milked three times ; but though by this more milk is obtained, it is of poorer quality. Milking in some parts of England is