Book I. 54 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. and in many rooms the whole of the woodwork is now grained in imitation of some wood or other. 214. Marbliny is allied to graining, and both are generally performed, when in the best manner, by painters who confine themselves entirely to this branch of the ti-ade. There is much skill and ingenuity shown in imitating the various marbles and porphyries by the study of good slabs of these materials ; and when the selection of colours is judicious, the effect is certainly extremely rich, and much preferable to the quantity of cold white once almost universal in ordinary houses. But when the imitations of wood or marble is badly performed, the effect is, on the contrary, particularly disagreeable. In rooms where there ai-e many pictures hung up, the walls sliould be painted with a l)lain colour, as any printed paper injures the effect of pictures: and, in this case, the colour should be that which will suit tlie pictures best. 21.'). The pamtiny of untamenls is a distinct branch of the business, and is practised only by persons who have learned to draw, and who devote themselves entirely to this art. The name of Decorator is now assumed by persons who either paint ornaments, or, more frequently, undertake to get them executed. 216. When woodwork is to be re-painled, it should be first well dusted down and cleaned, stopping all the cracks and defects with putty ; after which it should receive two coats of paint, either white or coloured, as may be required. Should any parts be greasy, the paint will not dry upon it, except the grease be first scoured off with pearl-ash, or turpen- tine be mixed with the paint: the first is the safest method. 217. What is called clearcoat and finish is a cheaper but less perfect mode of painting. First the cracks in the woodwork are stopped: then it is gone over with a coat of size only, with a little white lead, which fills up the pores of the wood, and prevents its farther absorption : the next and last coat is of white lead and oil, constituting the finish. This is a bad method, and altogether unfit for outside work, as the size prevents the perfect adhesion of the paint, causing it often to scale off. Dishonest painters, who undertake work by contract, sometimes practise this instead of painting in a proper manner, when they suppose their employers to be ignorant of the processes of painting; and it is some- times not easy to detect the fraud when the work is finished. In some cases, however, this coat of size and white lead is almost necessary, where old work to be re-painted is so greasy and dirty as not to take the oil paint. 218. House-painters are liable to be affected by a disease peculiar to them, called the painters' colic, which sometimes becomes fatal: and, if not removed in time, it often termi- nates in nervous apoplexies or palsy, first of the hands, then of the lower extremities, or depriving them of the use of their limbs. These diseases are owing to the white lead, or carbonate of lead, of which they use so much. Dr. A. Thomson observes, in his " Materia Medica," that, when colic only is present, castor oil combined with opium are the best remedies; but, if there is reason to suspect that a portion of the carbonate still is present in the stomach, sulphates of magnesia and soda should be administered: these salts con- vert the carbonate into a sulphate, which is inert, and is carried off by the remaining part of the salts. This author considers carbonate of lead as the only salt of lead that is directly poisonous, and that, with painters, the disease is frequently induced from want of cleanliness in not sufficiently washing their hands before taking their food. It acts however, probably also, upon the nerves of the skin. Of all the artisans who work in lead, the manufacturers of white lead are the most in danger from the colica pictorum : and, before the present mode was adopted of grinding the white lead under water, they suffered much from the dust of this material which filled the air of the grinding-houses; but, since this improvement, very few cases of the disease occur. 219. Painting in distemper is mixing the colours up with size instead of oil as a vehicle. Some balls of fine whiting are laid to soak in water over night; and the size, rendered liquid by warming in a pipkin, is poured in, and well stirred up with the whiting. Some colours, finely ground, are added, according to the tints required. This kind of painting IS much cheaper than oil colour, and has no gloss whatever; but, though it looks ex- tremely well if kept clean, it has the inconvenience of being easily stained; and, as it docs not bear washing, any foul marks cannot be removed, neither can they be painted over, as the colour cannot be exactly matched again, and any attempt to touch them with paint would only increase the evil. It nmst be done upon very smooth and dry plas- tered walls, or upon papered walls. Woodwork is never painted in distemper, as it would not form a good preservative ; nor can it be employed in outside work. It demands, like flatting, to be laid on with dispatch and dexterity — not to be streaky and uneven. If possible, the whole side of a room should be covered before any one part has quite time to be dry ; for this, sufficient colour should be mixed up, and a sufficient number of hands employed. 220. Various tints in distemper may be made as follows:—Straw colours; with whitinfi. inasticot, and Dutch pink ; or with" whiting, yellow ochre, and a little Venetian rod. Fawn colour; whiting, Venetian red. and a little black or burnt imiber; or with white and