205 I Chap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. 941. Alloys are formed for various reasons. Some metals that are too soft, as gold, are aalloyed to render them less liable to lose weight by wear. Some alloys are made to procure ai hard or tough metal; others for the beauty of their colour ; others, again, to prevent onxidation. In short, almost all the mixtures of -various metals with each other have par- liicular properties that render them valuable for some purpose or other ; and thus the Euumber of the metals appear as if they were increased, although it is not so, in fact. The changes in the properties of metals by alloying are sometimes very remarkable. TThus gold and lead, and gold and tin, metals extremely malleable, form brittle alloys. IThe alloy of copper and gold is harder than either of its component parts. A minute qquantity of arsenic added to copper renders it white. The fusibility of an alloy is generally ggreater than that of its components. Thus, an alloy of lead, tin and bismuth, melts with tlhe heat of boiling water. 942. The alloys in common use, are, — 943. Standard gold, which consists of 11 parts pure gold, 1 part copper ; of this, 1 pound ttroy is coined into 46 sovereigns. 944. Ring, or jewellers' gold: 1 ounce 5 pennyweights gold coin, 6 pennyweights 12 ggrains fine silver, and one pennyweight of copper. 945. Standard silver > 11 ounces 2 pennyweights of fine silver, and 18 pennyweights oof copper. 946. Brass is a mixture of copper and zinc in various proportions, but generally in the pproportion of seventy-five of the former to twenty-five of the latter. The colour, and some oother properties of the brass vary according to the quantities of copper and zinc, the paler kkinds containing most zinc. In some kinds the colour approaches very near to that of ggold, and is extremely beautiful. Brass is more fusible, but less malleable when cold, lithan copper; and is not only capable of being easily cast in moulds, but can also be rolled oout into sheets. It is less liable to rust and to be acted upon by acids than copper—a property that rrenders it more useful for cooking utensils; and, before tinned iron came into use, brass \-vessels were much employed in the kitchen. At present, the superior malleability of c copper has almost driven brass out of the field for saucepans and stewpans, though copper :ds more difiicult to clean and more liable to tarnish. These ancient brass vessels were all ocast: some are now made of sheet brass. But, notwithstanding that brass is not so liable to be acted upon by acids and other ccorrosive substances as copper, this danger is far from being entirely removed, as may hbe easily seen by the green carbonate of copper which is formed on it by acids and by ffat or oil. Brass vessels, therefore, require the same precautions as copper, and should nnever be employed to keep food in for any length of time. Next to iron, brass is the most useful metal in the modern arts and manufactures. As idt is variously compounded or alloyed, it is more or less adapted for that amazing variety oof purposes to which it is so extensively and profitably applied. When in its purest state ffrom the foimdery, it is so soft and malleable as easily to admit of being spread out into ssheets under the rollers; and,it may be beaten out into tinsel with the utmost facility. IBrass in this state admits of being stamped or embossed with a degree of ease which rrenders it valuable for cheapness and beauty, in numerous useful and ornamental ar- titicles. When properly made, it has a considerable degree of ductility and tenacity, and nmay be drawn into very fine wire : a slight degree of heat will increase its ductility ; but, when heated to about 300°, a smart stroke of the hammer will reduce it to powder. 947. Pinchbeck consists of 1 ounce of brass, from 1 to 5 ounces of copper, and 1 ounce oof zinc. 948. Tombac has more copper, and is of a deeper red than pinchbeck. 949. Manheim gold, or similar; 3 ounces of copper, li ounce of brass, 15 grains of pure titin. 950. Or-molu is the name given to a particular alloy of 52 parts zinc and 48 copper. 951. Bronze is a mixture of tin and copper, sometimes with the addition of zinc; but tithe proportions vary. It is tougher and harder than copper, and does not rust so soon »when exposed to the air; but in time, and particularly by being buried in the ground, it :-is covered with a dark green rust. It was much employed by the ancients for a variety "of purposes: Homer describes most of the arms, offensive and defensive, as brazen, or of ^ bronze, and doe.s not mention steel: most of the arms and instruments found in Hercu- Uaneum, Pompeii, Stabia, &c. are of bronze or brass, among which there is even a com- ;plete set of surgical instruments. Bronze was also extensively employed for statues, sandelabra, candlesticks, lamps, and a great number of domestic utensils and articles of : furniture, of which a vast variety may be seen in public museums. No doubt the facility •with which It can be cast, and the sharpness of the impression which it receives, together ■with Its great durability, were the causes for its preference. It is at present employed to a ' considerable extent for similar purposes, although the modern improvements in casting iron, 'which IS a much cheaper material, has superseded the use of bronze on many occasions. '