SCOURING, REMOVING STAINS, ETC. IIAP. XII. 1097 : them -without injurmg the cloth. Fat, oils, and grease are dissolved by ether, essential oil I of turpentine, soap, ox-gall, and solution of alkali; or they may be absorbed by blotting I paper, chalk, fullers' earth, &c. The choice of these will depend upon the nature of the , cloth that is stained. Soap, or alkali, for instance, will remove grease with ease, but they will also destroy the colours of many dyed stuiFs. When staiits are occasioned by acids, alkalies, or any liquids containing these, the . colour of the stuff is acted upon and changed. The colour may sometimes be restored by the application of something that would have a neutralising effect; for an acid an ; alkali, and for an alkali an acid; but this can happen only in case of the acid or alkali havino- been very weak. The fixed alkalies can unite with oily substances, and, by con- vertinn- them into soap, render them soluble and easUy washed out, but it exercises a powerful action upon wool and silk, so that it cannot be used on them, particularly the latter, except with the greatest care. The volatile alkali, ammonia, has not the same inconvenience as the fixed alkalies. Wlien the oil or grease in a spot has been converted into soap by the application of an alkali, this newly-formed soap may be dissolved by spirit of wine. The absorbent earths, such as chalk, fullers' earth, and French chalk, which contains much magnesia, are employed to remove grease, where an alkali would be dangerous. Ox-gall dissolves the grease, without injuring the stuffs or affecting the colours generally. To produce the desired effect better, several of these substances are sometimes mixed together to form a material for removing spots, as for instance soap, gall, and absorbent earth, and are called scouring balls. Sulphuric ether is a powerful solvent for oils and resins, and does not attack the colours, but it is so volatile, that it leaves what it has dissolved too soon. The essential oil of turpentine is, in general, the most convenient agent for combining with and dissolving oil or grease, wax and resins, while at the same time it does not affect the stuffs nor the colours : and the disagreeable smell it leaves may be overcome by another essence more agreeable. Some fat substances, and pitch, may be removed by blotting paper, and a hot iron to absorb them. Particular receipts will be given for each of these cases. 6550. White silk or satin may be cleaned thus : — Dissolve some of the best curd soap in boiling water, and, when the solution is as hot as the hand can bear, pass the silk through it thoroughly, handling it gently, not to injure the texture. If there are any spots, these may be rubbed carefully till they disappear. The article must then be rinsed in luke- warm water, and dried by stretching it out with pins. If satin, the glossy or bright side must be well brushed with a clean clothes-brush, the way of the nap, till it shines ; it may then be calendered ; or it may be finished by dipping a soft sponge in a little isinglass dissolved in boUing water, and rubbing the wrong side of the satin, which must then be again pinned out, and again brushed and dried. Plain silks do not require brushing. If the satin is not much soiled, the brightness may be restored by strewing on it some French chalk in powder, and then brushing it off with a hard brush ; if once is not suffi- cient, the process may be repeated. When the silk is large, it may be laid smooth upon a board, and a little soap spread upon the dirtiest parts ; then, having made a lather with fine white soap, this may be passed over the silk on one side with a brush, and then upon the other side. It must then be put into hot water, and afterwards rinsed in cold water ; it must next be dried, and smoothed on the right side with an iron not too hot, or calendered. If the white silks are flowered, the best method is to clean them by sifting on them some crumbs of stale bread, which must be rubbed on with the hands, and then thoroughly shaken and brushed off. If a very little powder blue be mixed with the crumbs, it will be advantageous for some shades of white. 6551. Black silk is best cleaned by some ox-gall put into boiling water. The silk must be laid out smooth on a table, and have both sides sponged with the gall liquor ; it must then be rinsed out well in clean water. A little gum arable, or glue, must be dissolved in water, and passed over the wrong side of the silk with a sponge, when the silk may be stretched out with pins and dried. In many cases it is necessary to unpick the seams of articles of dress, in order to lay each piece quite flat upon the table. Gall is a fluid in an animal likewise termed bile ; and is chiefly collected into a receptacle named the gall-bladder, from which it is procured. It is a liquid of a yellowish- green colour, about the consistence of thin oil, and extremely bitter. It contains a good deal of soda, hence its use in removing grease from clothes, &c. When agitated with water, it froths like soap and water; when fresh, its smell is somewhat like musk, but it very soon putrefies, and becomes offensive. G552. Culotired sillis require a different treatment, on account of the risk of discharging the colours. For common colours, the silk may be immersed and rubbed gently in a so- lution of soap, as described above, and afterwards rinsed in lukewarm water, taking care to be expeditious, lest remaining too long in the soap should affect the colours. More effectually to prevent this accident, the silk should afterwards be immediately dipped in water slightly acidulated with oil of vitriol, if the colours are bright yellow, crimson, maroon, or scarlet; orange, fawn, or brown, of any shades, do not require such precaution.