514 Book VIL ON FOOD. Sect. VII. GINGER (^Zingiber officinale, Linn.). 2869. Ginger is the tuber, or rather the rhizome, of a plant which is a native of the mountain of Gingi in Hindostan, whence the name. It was carried from India to Cayenne and the West Indies, where the greatest part of the ginger of Europe is cultivated. There are two kinds of ginger, but the difference consists chiefly in the mode of preparing it Wliile ginger consists of tlie best pieces, of which the outer skin has been scraped off; they are tlien well washed and dried in the sun : it breaks with a fibrous fracture, and is the strongest and best flavoured: good ginger should be compact and heavy. Black ginger is the inferior kind, which has only been scalded before it was dried. 2870. Ginger is one of the most agreeable and wholesome spices: it is much used in culinary operations and likewise in beer and other beverages. It is stimulating to the digestive organs, and is less hurtful than pepper ; but, like all excitants, it should be used with great moderation. The constant use of any kind of spices is, as we have stated, to lessen in time the nervous irritability and weaken the digestive function; for this reason gingerbread, which contains a great deal of ginger, is very injurious to the stomachs of children. As a medicine it is occasionally highly useful; and an essence or essential oil of ginger is prepared as a more convenient mode of applying it. 2871. Preserved ginger comes to us from the West Indies. It is made by scalding the roots when they are green and full of sap ; then peeling them in cold water, and putting them into jars with a rich syrup, in which state we receive them. It should be chosen of a bright yellow colour, with a little transparency : what is dark coloured, fibrous, and stringy is not good. Ginger roots, fit for preserving, and in size equal to West Indian, have been produced in the Royal Caledonian Horticultural gai-den in Edinburgh. When analysed, ginger is found to consist chiefly of starch; besides which it contains a resin soluble in ether; another insoluble ; a volatile oil; a vegeto-animal matter; acetic acid ; potash; gum; sulphur, and lignin. The pungency consists in the oleo-resin coin- bined with the starch. Sect. VIII. ALLSPICE, PIMENTO, OR JAMAICA PEPPER (Eugenia pimenta. Linn.). 2872. This well-known and useful spice is the berry of a handsome tree that grows to the height of twenty feet in the West Indies and South America. It belongs to the natural order of the Myrtaceffi, and as it grows spontaneously in Jamaica, the seeds are supposed to be sown by bu'ds. The fruit is not sufifered to ripen, but is gathered while yet green ; when dried in the sun it becomes black. It is less expensive than the oriental spices, and as it combines the flavour of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves, it is known here popularly by the name of allspice. It is a very agreeable aromatic, and is considered as the most mUd and innocent of the common spices ; hence it is much employed for domestic purposes. Its active principle resides in an essential oil, which it gives out readily to water and spirit. The essential oil, or essence of allspice, is of a deep reddish-brown colour, and extremely pungent; a few drops is sufficient to give a flavour to gravy, or to mulled wine. The best pimento is from Jamaica ; an inferior and larger kind grows in Tobago. It may be proper to observe that it is the practice of London shops to sell what they call mixed spice, which consists of a portion of all the above mentioned-spices ground together; this is much used about Christmas time, and is convenient for many purposes. Sect. IX. LEMON AND ORANGE PEEL. 2873. Among the aromatic condiments may likewise be reckoned the rinds of the lemon and orange, called lemon and orange peel, which owe their high flavour to the essential oil they contain, which is extracted and sold as the essence of lemons and oranges ; a few drops of this essential oil is equally efficacious with the peel itself, and has the advantage of being easily preserved, whereas the peel when dried loses most of its flavour in time, from the essential oil escaping.