Book VII. 500 ON FOOD. SuBSECT. 3. — Hazel Nuts and Filberts (^Conjhs Avellana, Linn.). 2761. The covimoji hazel is the wild, and the filbert the cultivated state, of the same tree. The hazel is found wild, not only in forests and hedges, in dingles and ravines, but occurs in extensive tracts in the more northern and mountainous parts of the country. It was • formerly one of the most abundant of those trees which are indigenous in this island. It is seldom cultivated as a fruit tree, though perhaps its nuts are superior in flavour to the others. The Spanish nuts imported are a superior kind ; but they are somewhat oily, and rather indigestible. Filberts, both the red and the white, and the cob nut, are supposed to be merely varieties of the common hazel, which have been produced, partly by the superiority of soil and climate, and partly by culture. They were originally brought out of Greece to Italy, from whence they have found their way to Holland, and from that to England. It is supposed that, within a few miles of Maidstone, in Kent, there are more filberts growing than in all England besides; and it is from that place that the London market is supplied. The filbert is longer than the common nut, though of the same thick- ness, and has a larger kernel. The cob nut is a still larger variety, and is roundish. Filberts are more esteemed at the dessert than common nuts, and are generally eaten with salt. They are very free from oil, and disagree with few persons. SuBSECT. 4. — Cocoa Nut. 2762. This magnificent nut is the produce of one of the palms (_Cocos nuci/era) which grows wild abundantly in the eastern parts of Asia and the islands of the Indian seas, from which it has been introduced into every part of the tropical regions, the property which the fruit has of not being destroyed by sea water favouring its transportation. The tree, like the rest of the palms, is tall and straight, being from thirty to sixty feet in height, and sometimes more, having the leaves only at the top, and the nuts hanging in bunches of about a dozen each under the leaves: one tree, in a good soil, has sometimes a himdred cocoa nuts annually. Some trees will bear■ blossoms every four or five weeks; hence there are generally fresh flowers and ripe nuts on the tree at the same time. The tree will continue to flourish for a century. 2763. The fruit is covered externally by a thin tough rind, of a brownish-red colour. Immediately within this is a quantity of tough fibres, (fig. 516.); and in the midst is inclosed the nut itself, which consists of a very hard shell, containing a kernel of a white substance, being itself hollow. The kernel in its fresh state is very nutritive, containing a good deal of fixed oil: it is eaten raw, or made into cakes or fritters when rasped; but, when it arrives in England, it is generally dry and indigestible. While the nut is green, the whole of the shell is filled with a juice called the milk, which is agreeably sweet and refreshing. When this can be procured, in its native country, it forms a delicious beverage ; Fig.5\G. it is used as milk with cofi"ee, and is employed for custards, blanc- mange, &c., but it is seldom found in any quantity in the cocoa nuts brought to England: a large nut, when fresh, will give half a pint of milk. WTien it is very young, the pulp is so soft that it may be eaten with a spoon, and, with a little Madeira wine and lime juice, is excellent. When about a quarter ripe, the shell is thin, and so transparent that it is used to hold a light by way of a lantern : there are three holes in it, which gives it somewhat the appearance of a monkey's head ; from one of these the germ or young plant rises when the nut is planted in the ground. The oil obtained by pressure from the kernel is used for burning in lamps. '2764. Perhaps no tree furnishes so mnny useful pyorlticts as the coe.na, .mil, where it exists in abundance, it seems to supply almost all the necessaries of life. The wooiiy shell of the trunk, when of ccmsiderablc age, is tough and durable, and is employed in building huts ; it is sometimes so hard iis even to be capable of receiving a very fine polish. The terminal leaf buds .it the top of the tree are very tender and delicate, and, when boiled, resemble cabbage : they are pickled with vinegar; but they can be had only at the expense of the tree, which dies if they are cut off. The bases of the leaf-stalks afford a reticulated sulistance, like gauze, th.at is used by the Indians for coverings for cradles and for strainers. The leaves themselves .-ire used for thatching houses, and ceilings .are formed of them. V.irious articles are also manufactured from them, as baskets and wicker-work ; also masks to protect tlie face from the sun: when young they are tr.ansparent, have a fine texture like satin, and .are used for making lanterns; they are also employed for writing upon by Bcr.itching with a pointed iron iiistnunent. Of the smalll eaves baskets for catching fish .are m.ade: also combs and brooms. They serve also for fuel, .and for torchiis in travelling, and to keep olT wild bi'.asis ; their .ashes, which contain much alkali,.are useii for washing or for makiu;,' snap. Tlie centred rib of the leaf is employed for oars • and the end of it, well bruised, answers as a broom or a brush for whitewashing. The fibrous coverings of the blossoms are made into aprons or petticoats for women. The fibres in the nut afford a mate- rial of which ropes and strong cables .ire twisted, which endure in salt water much better than those of hemp, aiid are even employed in manufacturing coarse sail-cloth: they are likewise used for slufling mattresses, cushions &c 'i'he iTiarc, or reluse of the nut after the oil is expressed, serves as food for rattle; .and the roots of the tree are sometimes chewed bv the Indians instead of .areca or beetle m.t. Of the shell of the nut n great variety of drinking-cups, ladles, spoons, and vessels of various kinds ;ire made, rrom the sap of the tree railed toddy arrack, a ferment"d li(pior, is produced, superior to that from rice. W lien fresh toddv is boll' d over a slow lire It thickens into a sweet luscious substance, named Aimri/; and, if this is farther l>oiU-d. it ft.rms a coa se brown sugar, cMvAjannenj, which is ofteu dried into round cakes for keeping. In short.