372 ON FOOD. Book VII. an offering for the promise of a son. This animal was held sacred by the Egvptians and elevated mto one of the twelve signs of the zodiac (Taurus); a representation of the ox became an object of idolatrous worship, as in the golden calf erected by Aaron At this day among the Hmdoos in India the cow is sacred, and held in the highest vene- ration ; the flesh is forbidden to be eaten. All these instances prove the value and great importance of this animal in the earliest times ; nor is this to be wondered at when we consider the various advantages we derive from this useful animal. The flesh afi'ords the most nutritive, wholesome, and generally used animal food ; and every part of its body is applied to some economical purpose. The bide is tanned into durable leather ; even the hair is employed to mix with mortar ; the tallow affords us artificial light; tbe'horns are manufactured into a variety of useful and ornamental articles, and the refuse of these and of the skins are made into glue; the intestines and the bladder are brought into use in domestic economy : the bones are formed into various implements, being a substitute for ivory, and are employed as a valuable manure. The female supplies us with milk, the most nutritious of aliments ; and as a beast of burden and draught, or even for riding, the ox is employed in many countries, where its patience and docility are acknowledged! Another of the advantages of this quadruped consists in its being so readily acclimated in almost every part of the world: in the northern parts of Europe, and also under a tro- pical sun, the ox is found domesticated and the servant of man. 1828. The earh) lustonj of the ox in this island partakes of the same obscurity with that of its human inhabitants. Cajsar describes the Britons in his invasion as subsisting chiefly on milk and flesh ; and this animal is doubtless indigenous here. There are several varieties, usually termed breeds, of it in the domesticated state ; and, although they are all descended from one common stock, it is now uncertain what was the original, if indeed it still exists. These varieties have been produced by cultivation ; and care is still taken to preserve the different breeds as perfect as possible ; yet by intermixture, and various improvements, the varieties have now become numerous. Of late great improvements have been made in cattle, both for the dairy and the butcher. 1829. The different breeds are chiefly distinguished by the-presence or absence of horns; or by their length and flexure ; and by the various proportions of the parts of the body. It is observed in general, that long-horned cattle give beef of the finest grain, more mixed and marbled than the short-horned, but affording less tallow. The short-homed give the richest milk ; a cow of the short-horned Yorkshire breed will yield twenty-four quarts of milk per day. The Galloway breed, which is without horns, and small, affords beef of the finest quality; and many of these are annually driven to England, four hundred mUes from their native pastures, and sold to the butcher. The Ayrshire breed appears to be the most improved in this island, not only for the dairj', but in feeding for the shambles. The Alderney cows, with the crumpled horn, give the richest milk, though small in quantity. The Hereford cow gives a large quantity of milk. 1830. Tlie quality of the beef depends upon a variety of circumstances, such as the breed, the sex, the age of the animal, and likewise upon the food with which it has been sup- plied. Bull beef has a strong disagreeable flavour ; dry, tough, and diflicult of solution ; it is rarely eaten except in sausages.' The flesh of the ox is more soluble ; the fat is better mixed; the meat is more sapid; it is highly nourishing and digestible, if the animal was not too old. The flesh of the cow is sufficiently fit for nourishment, but it is inferior to ox beef; heifer beef, or that of the young cow, is much esteemed, but that of an old fatted cow is bad. The larger varieties of the animal are inferior in the delicacy of their beef to that of the smaller breeds, when the latter have been properly fattened. The beef of the larger breeds of oxen is in pei-fection when the animal is about seven years old: that of the smaller breeds a year or two sooner : cow beef, on the contrary, can scarcely be too young. It is remarkable that a tendency to fatten, and to give a large quantity of milk, are never united in the same animal. As marking the distinctions among domestic animals, they are often denominated neat cattle, and sometimes black cattle. 1831. The food upon, which cattle are fatted in summer is grass, commonly on pastures, but in some instances cut and consumed in feeding houses or fold yards. In winter, by far the greater number are fattened on turnips and other roots, as carrots and potatoes, along with hay and straw. Oil cakes, and other articles, are used occasionally. A con- siderable number of cattle are also fatted on the grains from distilleries. There is a \er\ large establishment for this purpose at Booth's distillery in Brentford, calculated to hold six hundred head of cattle, that are fattened upon grains and mashes of barley meal and clover chaff with a little green food. It is said that a very large proportion of the beef sold in the London markets is from stall-fed cattle living upon oil cake and grains, a sort of food that is well known not to produce meat of the finest flavour, though it may in this manner be made sufficiently or even extremely fat London is partly supplied by cuttle which has been brought in a lean state from Scotland, Wales, and Devon, and fattened in the rich pasture of Essex ; but there is a great quantity of dead meat sent up from the country, generally speaking perfectly wholesome, and fairly and honestly slaughtered,