1170 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Book XXV. Fig. 90G. 1 d *——B=-flB —— a work, each for a cock and four or five hens to be in during the day to enjoy the fresh air, and yet be protected from bad weather; and these may serve instead of a poultry yard, when but a few fowls are kept. Places for shelter in case of rain are necessary to be pro- vided, and^f/. 90G. represents a portable shelter which can be placed where it is most convenient. In short it is of great use to make their abode not only healthy, but agreeable to them, in order that they may remain stationary and quiet, and lay and sit when it is desired ; as fowls, if they are dis- satisfied with their position, are apt to lay in secret places, where it is not always easy to discover their eggs. Among other conveniences in the' poultry-yard, there should be small plots of grass or clover planted here and there, if there is space enough ; and a few heaps of gravel, sand, or ashes, for the fowls to roll themselves in and cleanse their feathers from vermin. 6934. Fkj. 907. is a transverse section showing the interim- arrangement of a poultry-house, on a moderate scale, which is found convenient. A row of laying nests c, arranged along the wall is shown in perspective at d, with a shelf before, and a sloping board to ascend to them, and there may be breeding-boxes beneath. The perches or roosting places are several bars, a b, suspended from the timbers of the roof, and a sloping board may assist the fowls to get up to them. The door, d, may be high, for the benefit of ventilation when it is opened, and there should be an aperture in the opposite side, immediately below the ceiling, with a regulator. The door should have an opening also at the bottom for the egi-ess and ingress of the poultry, but only just large enough to admit them. Sometimes the place for roosting is distinct from that where the laying and breeding nests are put. 6935. Poultry eat a great variety of food; all kinds of grain and seeds, and preparations made from them ; also Fig. 907. most sorts of vegetables, raw or boiled ; and they are fond of a certain quantity of animal food, raw or cooked ; insects and worms, grubs and maggots, they search for and devourwith avidity, and some persons collect these on purpose for them. Potatoes form some of the most economical food, but it is essential not only that these should be boiled or steamed, but that they are given warm, for fowls dislike them if cold. In many houses there are many well-known scraps and refuse that will serve for fowls, such as crumbs of bread, fragments of pies and puddings, and even bits of meat and fish, and vegetables, such as lettuce, endive, cabbage, spinach, turnips, carrots, chickweed and grass. It is generally necessary to give them some kind of grain, as wheat, barley, oats, rye, buckwheat and maize, or meal made from them made into a paste with water. Rice they are fond of at first, but soon tire of it; and much oats, Mowbray says, is apt to scour. Peas and beans are best boiled; and some recommend boiling barley also, but that does not appear to be necessary. Fowls do not judge so much by taste and smell as by the eye in distinguishing their food, which, when first swallowed, passes into their crop, and after being there macerated goes into the funnel stomach, and then into the gizzard, in which, being a strong sac of the nature almost of gristle, the food is subjected to a powei'ful trituration, as in a mill; this appearing to answer the same purpose as the teeth of quadrupeds. To assist this effect, fowls pick up and swallow many small pebbles and stones ; and it is proper to lay some of them about in the place where they are kept. It is proper likewise to scatter some lime rubbish, as this earth is necessary to supply the calcareous matter which forms the shell of their eggs. The water given to them should be of the purest kind, for foul or bad water is sure to cause disease. 6930. The c:rpcnsc of feeding chickens to a condition fit for the table, .iccording to a statement in the Ctli vol. of the " Agricultural Magazine " would appe.ir to be very inconsiderable, intiependently of the trouble and attention required. It is there stated, that three pounds of meal of any kind, that will not cost above a penny a pound, made Into a paste with water, is sulhcicut. witli such scraps and crumbs as may be easily set aside in a house, to feed and fatten a chicken from the time it l)ursls its shell till it is fit for the table. It is also said that old fowls, even though fed with food for which money proportionate to the just market value must be paid, will, by their egg's, pay annually at least three times the cost of their subsistence, besides the adv.an- tago of the m.inure which is alibrded. If highly fed from the nest, chickens will he always fit for the table; and pullets which have been hatched In March Avill lay plentifully through the following autumn and winter, and may be got ready for the t.ible in February, when their laying is linit.Iied. High feeding shows itself not only in the size and flesh of the fowls, but in the weight .md substantial goodness of their eggs. 6937. The fattening of poultry, like that of all other animals, depends upon receiving more nourishing food than orilinarilj'. In a farm-yard, they will thrive upon the com- mon run of the yard, with such off'als as may occur from the house or stables. At threshing