iJAP. I. 123 ON LIGHT AND FLAME. htiole of the wax is consumed. What is sho-wn here of wax is true also of all the other I itbstances commonly used for producing light, as spermaceti, tallow, oil, resin, &c. They :!ill not afford flame until they are first reduced to the state of vapour. ;553. The flame of a common lamp, or of a candle, is produced in the following manner. idl and tallow, we have stated, do not take fire, unless previously volatilised by heat; and mJs is etfected by means of the wick of the candle or lamp. The oil or melted tallow ■ses between the fibres of the wick, in consequence of what is called capillary attraction, \ the same manner as water would rise up in a piece of the wick suspended in it. The flame ;■' another body being applied to the extremity of the wick, so as to set it on fire, the oil is csated to the state of vapour, which then inflames ; the oil first raised is dissipated by ■jmbustion, and another portion is attracted upwards by the fibres of the wick, and becom- i:g vapour, is burned likewise, and in this way a constant combustion is maintained. A undle, however, differs from a lamp in a very essential circumstance. The oil of the inmp is always fluid, and only requires to be boiled into vapour by the heat of the wick; ujt the tallow, being at first solid, has first to be liquefied and brought into the state of oil. What is in the vicinity of the wick is first melted, and the external rim of the i} I candle not being rendered fluid, a cup is thus formed which contains the melted portion. This circumstance will be adverted to again more particularly when we treat of the management of candles. The melted tallow or oil being boiled by the flame into the state of vapour, ascends in the form of a column, and, being heated to a high temperature, it combines rapidly with the oxygen of the surrounding atmosphere, the heat evolved being so gi-eat as to cause the vapour to be white hot and very luminous, thus constituting visible flame. But the combustion that occasions this can only take place in that part of the column of hot vapour which is in contact with the atmosphere, namely, the exterior surface. The flame of a candle or lamp, then, ^^.96., is not solid throughout, but only a thin film of white hot vapour, inclosing a quantity of heated vapour, which, for want of oxygen, is incapable of attaining the greatest degree of heat in burning ; that is, only the vapour which rises from the outside of the wick, and which is in contact with the atmosphere, can burn by imiting with oxygen : but what rises from the centre of the wick, not being in contact with the air, cannot bum, and rises, of course, unburnt. The flame of a lamp or candle is, therefore, in fact, hollow; the dark in the figure representing the hollow part, lithe upper part tapering to a point. 554. That the flame is really hollow can be proved by several experiments. By looking attentively at the flame of a candle just snuffed, it will be seen that imme- diately above the wick, there is a part darker or less luminous than the rest, as in fig. 96.; this is the hollow part, full of unburnt vapour. If a piece of paper held horizontally be quickly introduced across this part of the flame, Fig. 07. and held for a few seconds, the paper will be found to be scorched only in a rr'mg, fig. 97., where the circular film of flame was below it, and the centre part will not be scorched. The scorching will be best seen upon the upper side of the paper, as the lowest side will be too much blackened by the smoke. By a pretty experiment, it is possible to extract the imburnt vapour from the centre of the flame, and to inflame it. Procure a piece of a small glass tube, having a bore of an eighth of an inch ; insert the end of it dexterously into the dark part of the flame where the hollow is supposed to be, holding the tube as at a., and the unburnt vapour will ascend through the tube, and may be set fire to at the top by a piece of lighted paper, forming a smaller flame of the same kind as the first. 555. It is necessainj now to refer the reader to ivhat ice have said in Book II., on the chemical nature of combustion. We there slated that the usual substances employed for giving heat and light, were of vegetable or animal origin, as wood, coal, wax, tallow, spirit, &c., the chemical constituents of which are oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon, in variable proportions; and that, in the process of combustion, a complete decom- Pig. 98, position of these, or a separation from each other, was effected. This takes place in all the oil buraed in lamps, and the wax, tallow, &c. in candles. , 556. We must trace the progress of this decomposition, in order to explain the phenomena which occur in artificial illumination. When any of the substances employed for giving light is heated so as to inflame, a portion of the carbon and hydrogen unite, forming car- bonated hydrogen, which is detached, and becomes luminous by uniting with oxygen in the manner described above. Another portion of the hydrogen alone combines with o,xygen, and forms water, this fluid consisting of these two gases in combination. The water thus formed is dissipated through the atmosphere, being so heated as to be in the state of vapour, on which account it is not obviously visible. The light, therefore, proceeds from the combustion of the carbonated hydrogen. Another portion of the carbon of the