1039 Chap. VIII. COSMETICS. 6157. Balsam of Peru is a resin used in perfumery, and is obtained by making incisions in a tree which grows in Peru and Mexico {Myroxyhn Cerifcruvi), or by evaporating a decoction of its branches and barli. It is brown, and of the consistence of turpentine, has an acrid bitter taste, but an agreeable colour. It is high priced, and consequently often adulterated. It contains a portion of benzoic acid. 6158. Balsam of Gilead is a turpentine, not a balsam : it is a perfume much esteemed by the Turkish ladies, but scarcely known here. It is obtained from a tree, the Amyris Gileadensis, a native of Abyssinia; but the balsam is generally procured from Gilead in Judea, whence the name. 6159. Gum elemi is a gum-resin procured by incision from Amyris elemifera; yields a sweet odour when burnt. 6160. Labdanum is an unctuous resin, of an agreeable odour, found upon a plant {Cystus creticus) which grows in Candia and Syria. The genuine sort is rare, very heavy, and light brown ; the impure kind is generally darker. 6161. Dragon's blood is used in tooth powders. It is obtained by macerating and steaming the fruit of the Calamus draco. It is in round masses of a brownish red. 6162. Gum copal is a resin which exudes from two trees, of which one grows in India and the other in America. It is used in pastiles. Sect. II. AROMATIC LEAVES, FLOWERS, ROOTS, AND VFOODS. 6163. Orange flowers cannot be had in sufficient quantity in this country, but are abundant in the south of Europe, and are also procured in tolerable quantity in the vicinity of Paris, where they are collected every morning from private and public establishments. They should be made use of immediately they are gathered from the tree, as they very soon lose their fine odour. 6164. Rose leaves. — The flowers of the damask and the red rose yield a strong perfume, either dried or by distillation. They should be gathered in dry weather; and if they are to be salted for winter use, this should be done as soon as possible after they are picked from the stalks. 6165. Lavender flowers. — These are used for making oil of lavender, and lavender water. They should be gathered dry, and kept in paper bags ; if put into boxes they are apt to heat and spoil. Their use, put among linen, is well known. 6166. Jessamine flowers are abundant only in warmer climates than ours : the odour of what grows here is sweet, but not powerful. They are so delicate that they will not bear the heat of distillation; and their perfume is collected by means of wool in the manner described under " Still Room." They do not preserve their perfume long when dried. 6167. Violet floivers. — The same observations apply to violets as to jessamine. 6168. Rosemary. — The leaves and flowers are used in making Hungary water and oil of rosemary. Young plants produce the best flowers. 6169. Marjoram, lemon-thyme, and basil should be preserved as lavender. 6170. Myrtle leaves and peach leaves are used in herb snufF. 6171. Tonka bean, properly Tonquin bean, is used here to perfume snuiF; but in the West Indies and America it is employed to put among clothes and to keep away moths. The aroma of the seed is owing to a volatile oil which it contains. 6172. Orris or Iris root comes chiefly from Florence. It is white, and has a fragi'ant smell, very like violets. It is used in various ways. 6173. Calamus roots belong to the Acerus Calamus, or sweet flag. It grows in this country in ponds. The smell is powerful, but coarse. 6174. Cypcrus root—The best kind comes from Florence ; one kind, nearly equal to it, long-rooted cyperus, is found wild in this country. When first powdered, the scent is weak, but by keeping it becomes stronger. It is used in making the cyperus powder of the perfumers. 6175. Cedar This sweet-smelling wood is in great request for drawers for wearing- apparel ; and the shavings are used to keep away moths. 6176. Rhodium wood is said to be the wood of a Chinese rose-tree; its perfume is similar to that of roses, and is sometimes used with orris root. If bought rasped, it is probably adulterated. 6177. Yellow Sanders wood has a smell resembling that of a green citron; from it an oil is prepared having a powerful odour. 6178. Cinnamon and cloves may be reckoned among the perfumes. 6179. Various mixed odoriferous .substances powdered, called sachet powders, are put as perfumes among linen and other articles of dress in wardrobes or drawers ; one of them is the following : — Take the dried leaves of roses, pinks, hyacinths, lavender, balm, stock, gilliflower, or any other sweet-smelling flowers; dry them in the shade; then powder