Boor II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. 62 edifices ; and while their ecclesiastical buildings, their palaces, and castles, displayed tlie skill of the architect, the habitations of private individuals were, in general, only woode n buildings of mean appearance and inconvenient arrangement. The habits of modern life require the interior of our houses to be objects of more attention, and the infinite number of pursuits causing a great part of our time to be passed within doors, make it necessary, both for health and the advantageous employment of our faculties, that we should not suffer from cold or deleterious air, while deprived of that bodily exercise which imparts warmth and animation to those whose employments carry them chiefly into the open air. 272. In the southern parLs of Europe, indeed, artificial warmth is so seldom required, that the means of obtaining it are even now exceedingly rude and imperfect, frequently amounting to no more than introducing a charcoal .stove, or rather a brazier, or open vessel filled with burning charcoal, into the apartment, a practice which would be ex- tremely injurious to health, if continued for any length of time. But in this country, where the cold season is not only more severe, but of much longer duration, various modes are adopted which are much less objectionable. Still, we are far from being under the necessity of employing the methods used in the north of Europe, where nothing less than close stoves, which produce no change of air in the apartments, are sufficient to insure the degree of warmth essential to comfort. 273. When we treat of Ventilation, we shall explain particularly why this change of air is so important to health : at present, we shall consider this to be admitted ; and we may do so the more readily, as the subject is beginning to be generally attended to. It is desirable, therefore, in the method we may adopt for waj-ming our buUdings, to contrive not only the most economical, but also that which will secure to us the enjoyment of a salubrious atmosphere. But as the subject of warming and ventilating cannot be understood without an ac- quaintance with the properties and laws of heat, we shall inquire into the nature of this agent previously to pointing out the most judicious manner of directing and employing it. Sect. I. ON HEAT. 274. IJeat is recognised as a principle rather by its effects than by any fmowlcdge we pos- sess of its essential nature. Every one experiences the presence or absence of it in the sensations of warmth and of cold ; and we all witness the changes produced by it on other bodies, in causingthem to expand, or to melt; and likewise in the process of combustion. But if we inquire, what is this heat, the effects of which are so evident ? the answer is not so easy. By some, heat has been considered as an extremely subtle fluid, capable of insinuating itself between the particles of all bodies ; of remaining there in a donnant and inactive state, or of being put in motion or activity, by which only it is rendered sensible. This supposed fluid has been named caloric. By others, the existence of any such peculiar fluid is denied, and heat is said to consist merely in a rapid motion of the solid particles of bodies that are heated. A third opinion is, that heat depends upon the rapid vibrations or waves of an inconceivably subtle fluid, or ether, which fiUs all space, and is quite independent of the ordinary matter appreciable by our senses. Since all these opinions are hypotheses only, and as neither of them can be completely proved in the present state of our knowledge, we may speak of heat as a distinct sub- stance, which is the doctrine that can be most easily adapted to the explanation of the usual phenomena we shall have to consider ; observing, that we do so for convenience only, without intending to express any opinion as to its absolute truth; and we shall pro- ceed to describe some of the properties of beat, which are essential to our present subject, as they have been deduced from experiment, and entirely independent of every specuhi- tion respecting its essential nature. 27.5. Heat has a strong tendency to diffuse itself equally through all adjoining bodies; so that if several bodies, heated to different degrees, are brought together, either in contact, or near one another, those which have most heat will give out some to those which have least, until they have all an equal quantity. This is one of its most important properties, and is usually expressed by the term propagation of heat. 276. Ileat is propagated in two wm/.s; by conduction, and by radiation. When bodies are actually in contact, the superabundant heat of the one passes directly into the other, and diffuses itself through it until the quantity in both be equal: this is propagation by conduction. When heat is propagated by radiation, a heated body sends out invisible rays of heat in all directions through the air, which strikes upon and enters into all adjoining solids : tending, in like manner, to equalise their temperature. 277. An increase of heat causes all bodies to expand, or become larger in their dimensions. This is easily shown" by a few simple experiments. 1. AVith regard to solids : procure a small cylinder of metal, a, and also a plate of metal, b, {fig. .'52.) having a notch cut in it *