Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 320 furcifir, only for using a foi-ke at feeding, but for no other cause." It would seem, from the foregoing passage, that for each guest to put his fingers into the dish was no " cu- riosity " in England years ago, any more tlian it is at present in Turkey and all parts of the East. We read still in the accounts by travellers of Arabian manners, of the host expressing his attention to his guests by helping them with bis fingers to choice morsels of meat, even from his own plate. 1410. The most ordinary and cheapest table knifes viva made of common steel: but the best table knives are made/)f slicar steel; and the words "shear steel" are generally stamped upon the blades. The tang, or part that goes into the handle, is made of iron welded to the steel blade, which, when finished by the smith, is heated red-hot, and plunged into cold water to harden it. It is afterwards tempered down to a blue colour, and is then ready for the grinder. 1417. Forks are generally a distinct branch of mamifactme. The prongs are first formed by a stamp that cuts them out, and they are afterwards filed up, and then hardened and tempered. The forks are purchased from the fork-makers by the manufacturers of table knives, who put them into handles. 1418. Handles of knives and forks are made of wood, ivory, box, horn, silver plate, silver, &c. Stags' horn make very durable handles, the surfaces of the horn being left in its natural state ; these are often used for large cai'ving knives. Handles made of the horn of the ox are generally dyed black, and ornamented with a great variety of patterns by means of pressing them between two dyes, after having been softened with -hot water. They are liable to injury from being dipped in hot water, as the grain rises, and com])letely spoils their beauty. Bone handles are made of the shank bone of the ox, and the thickness of the solid part of the bone is never sufiicient to make the handles equally thick with those of ivory. Some of the bones are very dense and hard, but they do not keep their colour like ivory. To correct this defect they are sometimes dyed green. The best handles of knives for common use are made of ivory ; and the beauty, durability, and comparative cheapness, of the material may well recommend it to those respectable tables where silver is not always used. Handles of wood are now very little used. 1419. Handles of table knives are made in two ways, either by drilling a hole in the handle, and cementing into it the tang of the knife ; or by making the handle in two parts, each of which is laid on the sides of the tang, in that case made flat, the whole beiug riveted together to form the handle, this is called scale tang. In the first mode the tang is simply cemented in with melted resin mixed with fine ashes, as in the case of the best ivory handles, where there is no appearance of pins or rivets; or a stronger method is to drill a hole quite through the handles, and to run the tang through and rivet it on the opposite end : this is called thorough tang, and is the best for^ use, as the blade then rarely separates from the handle. There is an improvement made lately called balance knives ; in those the haft is perforated considerably deeper than is required for the reception of the tang of the blade, and a piece of lead is inserted in the bottom of the hole, the blade having at the same time a projecting shoulder near the handle. By this contrivance the knife, when laid upon the table, rests upon-the handle and shoulder, the blade never touching the cloth, as in common knives. 1420. To guard the hand against any accidental slip of the knife in carving, modern carving forks have a very useful addition, which consists of a small spur working upon a spring in the swell of the shank, and capable of being thrown up at a right angle with the instrument, so as to catch the knife should it slip. 1421. Tlie blades of fruit knives, instead of being made of silver, are often of steel plated with silver : and these of course are much cheaper. In plating these the steel knives are first scoured bright and dipped into melted tin, being in fact tinned. Silver foil is folded round it and rubbed down close, and made to adhere by passing a soldering iron over it: after this the whole is exposed to heat over a clear fire to flux the tin. Lastly the surface is cleaned and polished. Electro-plating will probably be applied to this. 1422. Forks are now, at the best tables, generally of silver, except when they are plated on steel, which latter is far preferable in appearance to the British plate or German silver, but does not wear so well. * 1423. Knives and forks are frequently too much worn in the cleaning by the common methotl. A lathe and wheel, charged with kniife-cleauing coi'nposition, would insure a saving of time in the proportion of five-sixths; that is, an hour's work might with this machine be done in ten minutes, and, if care be used, with less wear. 1424. Knife sharpeners. — Every person accustomed to carving must have felt upon occasion the great inconvenience of a blunt knife, and the advantage of one that ha;; a good edge. The common steel used by the butchers is well known ; but it is an inelegant instrument to be seen at table, and requires groat dexterity to use it effectually. Several attempts have been made to invent a method of sharpening a knife expeditiously, and without producing any annoyance. 142.-). Felton's patent sharpener consists of two steel cylinders, placed parallel to cn^ h