43 vi>. VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. I k ofiug. Good slates should be thin, dense, and of a smooth surface. Balance one on the ager, and strike it -with a hammer; if the sound is clear, the slate may be considered as ri-m, if dull, the slate is less dense, and should be rejected. 153. Before the slates are put on, the rafters are covered with boarding, and on this the I aates are fastened with nails, being laid over each other, so that the water falling on any ! 'lint, instead of«eaching the boarding, falls on another slate beneath, there being, in fact, Jdouble thickness of slates. I : Slating should be pointed on the inside, or plastered with a coat of lime and hair, to keep i.at the wind and snow effectually: this keeps the ceilings dry, and the house warm. 154. Patent slating is done by laying large slates side by side on the rafters, without 'Oarding, and cementing, and screwing fillets of slates over the joints. This kind of bating may be laid with a pitch of only ten degrees ; whereas ordinary slating requires at •iast twenty-five degrees. It is little used, the cement being apt to decay. 155. The rain ivaler is carried away from the roof in several modes. The simplest and Most ancient mode, which is still practised, is by dripping eaves; but these, in the old laanner, had the great inconvenience of keeping the wall wet, besides the annoyance to ersons walking near. When the eaves project considerably, in the manner of Italian uuildings (a mode that is frequently imitated here in small houses), the appearance is pic- uiresque fi'om the deep shadow thrown oil the wall ; and the disagreeable eft'ect of the fj'ater dropping is obviated by placing a small leaden trough, as at a, Jig. 41., at the extremity, I)) catch the water before it drops; from this hae water is led into a perpendicular pipe; rr, for very small roofs, a semicircular lead rfough may be placed as at b. But for large icouses, and for all those in the streets, the Monstruction of gutters and parapets is used, i.^-y which the rain and snow water is let down '«y a pipe into the street drain. Great atten- lidon must be paid to these gutters on the roof, nnot only with regard to their first construc- tion, but that they are always kept in proper vepair; otherwise, if they are improperly iibrmed or neglected, the water will penetrate rmto the houses and injure the apartments, an Mccident to which eaves are not so liable. It Pfs- 41. unay be proper to notice a few circumstances on this subject. All lead gutters must have u small degree of slope to give the water a current, which, particularly in those of con- siderable length, increases the width of the gutter at one end, and therefore demands a r^reater quantity of lead. Speculators, to avoid expense, are apt to make this slope too Email. The sheets ought never to be joined by solder, because, if confined, the expansion ::n warm weather would cause the lead to crack; but they are connected by drips, a kind of step of two inches, made in laying the boards for the lead. The lead over this is only ihaniraered close, as in the black line, afg. 42., and not soldered. For the same reason of saving lead, builders sometimes make this Step too little; and when this is the case, Ihe snow, in thawing, is liable to rise up in Ithis joint, and to damage the ceilings. The ■lead of the gutter is also made to pass for seven or eight inches up under the slates d d, to keep out the wet, as is shown by the dark line at be; and when the lead is not cut wide enough to admit of this, the snow water, in hca\7 falls, will also gain entrance under the slates. At the other edge the lead of the gutter turns up against the parapet, as at i; and a slip of lead called a flashing, as /, is let into the brickwork, and turns down over the lead of the gutter, to prevent the rain insiimating itself between it and the brickwork. When wet appears in the ceiling of the upper story, it is frequently owing to some of these circumstances having been neglected; or, perhaps, from some crack in the lead. The whole should therefore be carefully examined by the plumber; but if the defect arises from the lead of the gutter having been originally cut too narrow, there is no effectual remedy but taking it up and putting down wider lead — an operation both tedious and expensive. It must be evident, therefore, that, in a new building, these points demand particular attention. We may here observe that, in very heavy falls of snow, the wet will sometimes rise under the slates, even when the lead is of the proper width, if the precaution he neglected of throw-