CULINARY APPARATUS. Chap. III. 825 best for the purpose. This was put up by Mr. Jeakes, and the circular aperture is closed by several rings of iron of different sizes, by which the size of the opening may be varied, and adapted to different vessels. There is likewise a narrow chink or crevice immediately beneath the top plate, marked in the woodcut by a black ^"^'^f^^^^ line, which admits cold air, and prevents the plate from ever being too hot for the sugar ; this "chink has a register to regulate the air admitted. I? Fig. 651. There are ; ig. 652. 4693. A small apparatus /(»■ broiling or holding anj^ thing over the fire to warm is sold in the streets of London for a penny; and is interesting from its extreme simplicity. It consists merely of a piece of iron, which has been cut an eighth of an incli square, bent as In Jie- 651., anci having a handle, formed by binding the two ends with some wire or a strip of tin. no leet; but its use is to put between the bars of a grate, when the fire is low, or over the fire. The size of the gridiron part is usually about nine inches long, and six or seven %vide. Some are made with more and closer bars. 4694. An apparatus called a new kind of gridiron has lately appeared in the shops, and we give it, because it may have its use on particular occasions, without pro- nouncing upon its general utility. Fig. 652. represents this apparatus, which resembles a frying-pan in shape; but it has cross partitions, on which the meat is laid. It is evident that the broiling is effected by the heat radiated from the iron. By this means the fat is prevented from falling into the fire, and causing the flare so troublesome in ordinary broiling. A hint may be taken from this for improv- ing the triiveller's frying-pan, or, rather, for converting it into a gridiron. 4695. Perpendicular gridirons, made of a strong kind of wire, and double, so as to inclose the meat to be dressed, are sometimes convenient; they hang before the fire, and the meat is turned merely by turning the implement; but though this is strongly recommended by Dr. Kitchener, on account of the smoke being quite avoided, the meat is rather roasted than broiled. They may, however, also be used horizontally, without the dripping-pan, over the fire, and the turning is then performed with the same facility. 4696. Braising pans, fig. (>t)Z., are copper vessels much used in French cookery for performing the operation termed braising. The lower vessel, which holds the meat, is covered by another, a, that fits quite close, so that there can be no evaporation ; and it serves also, by means of a raised rim, to hold burning charcoal, by which the meat is browned. Fig. 653. Sect. IV. APPARATUS FOE FETING. 4697. The common frying-pan is too well known to require any thing being said about it. It affords the readiest mode of dressing meat on many occasions ; a few sticks, and a stone or brick or two, being all that the traveller or soldier requires or can procure for the operation. The frying-pan is made of wrought-iron, and is frequently tinned inside, but that is not necessary, if it be well cleaned out. Count Rumford shows that by cover- ing the frying-pan with a deep earthenware bowl, it may be converted into a vessel for cooking partly by steam. 4698. The Saute-pan,fig. 654., is a shallow copper vessel with two handles, used in French cookery to .muter, which is a term of art nearly but not quite analogous to frying; for in this operation the fillets of meat are frequently turned or tossed over with great celerity as soon as they are affected by the heat; hence the term sauter, " to jiunp ;" it is a mode of frying with very great ^'B- 654- nicety. The name is corrupted by English cooks into sooty-pan. See explanation of the terms in French cookery. Book XIV. Chap. I. Sect. V. APPAEATUS FOE BAKING. 4699. For various kinds of ovens, we refer the reader to the description of bakers' ovens under " Baking Bread," Book IX. Chap. III. Sect. IX. Some other contrivances of this kind will here be noticed. We have mentioned that ovens are now very generally attached to kitchen ranges; some of these perform very well, while others have been found almost useless. They seldom answer well if the heat comes to one side only from the fire ; to be complete, the heat should be made to pass quite round the oven, and also over the top. When a separate fire is made below the oven, there is danger lest the heat on the bottom should be too great; in that case, it is generally necessary to put a tile or a dish with some sand on the bottom, to prevent the bread or meat from being burned. 4700. PnrlaMe ovens are occasionally very useful. Fig. 6.5.5. represents a portable oven of sheet iron, of a convenient form. The oven itself is placed upon a sheet iron German