296 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. design. They are not aiFected by frost or rain, and are certainly a great improvement on the common forms of garden pots; they are employed in ornamenting balconies, conservatories, &c. The clay bakes to an agreeable red, and some of the articles are embossed; others are painted or coloured in imitation of the Etruscan. Specimens of this manufacture are to be seen in the Pantheon bazaar, London. 130G. Rockingham ware is a coarse strong ware, lately introduced, capable of standing the fire, and resisting changes of temperature. It is covered with a dark brown glaze, and is employed for tea-pots, and various vessels liable to be exposed to heat and cold. It is manufactured at Rotherham, in Yorkshire, and derives its name from the Marquis of Rockingham. 1307. Tobacco-pipes of the common while hind are made of best potter's clay, such as that found in Dorsetshire, hence called pipe-clay, which burns perfectly white. After the clay has been formed into a ductile paste, it is rolled out into portions the length of a pipe, and perforated with a brass wire rubbed over with oil. The heads are made in a mould, and fixed on to the tube. The pipes are then dried and are piled in furnaces built for the purpose, where they are baked. The Dutch pipes are glazed with a varnish made of soap, white wax, and gum arable, which is rubbed on with a cloth. These pipes, as is well known, are capable of sustaining a red heat without injury. Some tobacco- pipes are made of red clay, and others of Meerschaum which are imported- 1308. The produce of the English potteries have found their way into every part of the civilised world ; and it is a remarkable fact, that they have even penetrated into countries to which our most enterprising travellers have scarcely had access. Captain Clapperton, in the account of his journey into the interior of Africa, states that, when on a visit to the court of Sultan Bello, " provisions were regularly sent me from the sultan's table on pewter dishes with the London stamp; and I even had a piece of meat served up on a white wash-hand basin of English manufacture." It is estimated that the value of the various sorts of earthenware produced at the potteries may amount to about 1,500,000/. a year, and that the earthenware made at Worcester, Derby, and other parts of the country, may amount to 7.')0,000/. more, making the whole of the manufacture 2,25O,000Z. or 2,350,000/. a year. The consumption of gold for gilding, &c. at the potteries is about 650/. a week, and of coal about 800 tons per week. Sect. IIL porcelain. SuBSECT. 1.—Historical Remarks. 1309. Porcelain is the most perfect production of the potter's art, and had its origin among that extraordinai7 people the Chmese, who were in possession of the art of fabncatmg this beautiful ware before the Christian era : and a coarser kind of it was made also by the Eo-yptians. Vessels of porcelain occasionally found their way into ancient Rome m the first century, probably from China or Japan, a certain quantity of trade havmg been car- ried on then as now, between nations very distant from each other, by means of caravans. It appears that the Portuguese, in trading with China, were the first to brmg porcelain into Europe in considerable quantities; and they gave to it its present name, it is said, from the resemblance of its glaze to the natural polish of a sheU caUed by them porcetla. The Chinese name is tse-ki. , • , i, ^ 1310 Dr. Anderson, in his History of Commerce, says, that the first porcelam brought to London was in a Portuguese ship taken as a prize in 1593. Its beamy soon caused it to be in great request among the great and wealthy ; and the emulation of European artists to imitate it was soon excited. Of the various attempts made in different parts of Lu- rone the most successful was at Dresden ; afterwards, some Jesuit missionaries, who were permitted to penetrate into the interior of China, learned something of the manufacture there They contrived to procure specimens of the materials, and transmitted them to Europe, with some accoimt of the processes employed. These materials were analysed by Reaumur and other chemists, and it was soon discovered that the same substances existed in France, and in many other parts of Europe. In consequence of this, several European soverergn , anxious to possess manufactories of so beautiful a ware, formed estobhshments for that^mirpose. Tha? of Dresden was the first to make porcelain hke the Chmese and t has ever since been famous for the beauty of its productions. A magnificent establish- Lnt was lilcewise formed at Sevres by the French government, and others in Vienna, Berlin, Bohemia, and several even of the smaller states in Germany. SuBSECT. 2.—Distinctions of Porcelain, and Manufacture of English China. 1311 Two maleriah arc necessary to form die true porcelain of the Chinese: one is named by them^«o/t«, and is our porcelain or chinaclay, which results from the decom-