4 Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. eminence is generally dry, or at least it is usually capable of being rendered so by draining, which can scarcely be effected in a valley or very low situation. But a spot may be rather elevated, and yet neither be dry nor healthy; for there may be hills of greater height in the vicinity, or it may be backed by or surrounded with thick woods, that render it liable to springs of water and stagnant air impregnated with noxious exhalations from decayed leaves. A strong clayey soil is retentive of surface water, and difficult to drain ; hence it is unpleasant to walk upon after rain, and is easily broke up by horses and cattle: it is also the worst for gardens, for which the best is a loamy soil. A gi-avelly soil on an eminence is dry; but on a flat it is apt to generate damp in the lower parts of a house, because the water finds its way from all parts of the gravel into the hollow made by the foundation. The richest soil on an estate is not always the most suitable for the mansion, though the most valuable for agriculture. 17. The subsoil is sometimes of more importance than the soil; for though the latter may be improved, the former scarcely ever can. A bad subsoil is extremely injurious to the thriving of trees, which constitute one of the greatest ornaments of a country. 18. Trees near a mansion are agreeable, forming a pleasing composition with the archi- tecture, affording shady walks in summer, and sheltering the house from high winds; but if near the house, and too tall or too close together, they obstruct the light, prevent the free circulation of air, and render the ground damp : also the decaying of the leaves in autumn, and the rank vegetation under them, sometimes give rise to unwholesome exhalations. • 19. In general fine prospects from the house are desirable ; but tastes differ in this respect, some preferring that the place of residence should be rather secluded, and that the prospects should be at a little distance to be reached by a short walk. It is agreeable if the views from the house have a kind of intricacy by which successive distances may be marked, and prevent any positive limit from appearing, the boundary of the property being surrounded by a haha instead of a wall. 20. A good supph/ of water is essential to the comfort of every residence, and should be one of the first things inquired about in choosing a spot to build on : the supply should not only be abundant, but the water should be of the best quality. The water of a river or stream is, in general, the softest; though sometimes that of wells or springs is equally so. If there is no water apparent, it will be proper to try by boring whether a well can be sunk with advantage ; but on no account should any building operations for a dwelling house be commenced imtil the existence of good water at the place be ascertained, or the means of transporting it from a convenient distance. Artesian wells may sometimes be formed. When no other supply can be obtained in a spot where it is resolved to build, recourse may be had to the rain water collected on the roof, and conveyed, after having been filtered, to well-constructed tanks. It has been calculated b}' Waistell that the average quantity of water which falls on a square yard of surface in Britain, in a year, is 126 gallons ; consequently 100 square yards of roof will give 12,600 gallons : this will serve to show what roofing will be required. For further information on the subject we refer the reader to Book viii. chap. 1. "On Water." 21. TTie best situation for a mansion is, in general, on the south side of a gentle eminence, as the soil is most likely to be dry, or capable of being rendered so by draining. This situation is also most likely to be free from noxious exhalations and mists, and to enjoy the full advantage of the sun's rays. We may observe that the above hints for assisting in the choice of a situation will apply equally in the case of a house already built, as to that of selecting a spot to build upon. CHAP. II. CLASSES OF DOiMESTIC BUILDINGS. The subject of situation having been discussed, the attention will now be directed to the kind of domestic building required. In the following considerations we will suppose that a new house is to be erected, since it is evident that by this means alone all the varied wants of different individuals can be completely supplied. 22. The kind of house must evidently be determined by the rank and wealth of the person who is to occupy it, the extent and habits of the family, their tastes, and indeed all those circumstances in private life that are too well known to be enumerated. Domestic residences in this country vary in size and style by an infinity of shades; but in ordinary estimation they are divisible into several classes; as the palace — the ex- tensive town and country mansions of any of the royal family, or of noblemen — the town house or villa of the wealthy commoner— the residences of an almost infinite variety of