Book XXI. DIAMOND. 1063 viewed in air, if they are plunged into water ; but still more so, if they are immersed iu some denser fluid, as Canada balsam, oil of sassafras, fluid oil of anise seeds, &c. 6367. There is much confusion in the common mode of naming the precious stones used in jewellery; and many jewellers themselves are ignorant of their proper names, as distin- guished by eminent mineralogists. These valuable substances were formerly classed and named according to their colours; hence all red gems possessing a certain degree of hardness were called rubies ; the blue, sapphires : the yellow, topazes ; the purple, ame- thysts, &c. But at present gems are not classed by mineralogists merely according to their colours, but according to the nature of their crystallisation, their chemical compo- sition or the earths of which they consist, and their specific gravity. The true classi- fication of gems or precious stones, according to the modern system of mineralogy, is into the diamond ; the varieties of corundum ; the sapphire ; the emerald ; the topaz; the spi- nelle; the garnet; the tourmaline, &c. Each of these differs from the rest in their crys- tallisation, hardness, and chemical composition, forming a separate and peculiar mineralogical species; and as each of these appears imder various colours, colour alone cannot be considered as a complete distinction. Besides the stones just mentioned, there are a few others of less value which we shall also describe. We shall treat of these according to their mineralogical distinctions, at the same time mentioning the popular names used by jewellers. Sect. I. DIAMOND. 6368. The unrivalled brilliancy of this gem has always attracted universal admiration, and among ornaments it has ever occupied the highest rank. No other substance, natural or artificial, can rival its lustre, rich with prismatic colours. The beauty of other gems is almost lost to the distant beholder; the diamond alone diffuses its starry radiance to the most distant parts of the assembly, and has acquired, by common consent in all ages, a prodigious value that continues undiminished. But notwithstanding the immense value of diamonds of large Size, small stones are sufiiciently abundant to be within the reach of most persons in easy circumstances, and are therefore in very general request. 6369. Large diamonds have ever been extremely rare ; and a few celebrated for their magnitude and beauty are in the possession of sovereign princes. 1. The largest diamond on record is mentioned by Tavernier the traveller as having been in the possession of the Great Mogul; it weighed 296 carats, and was found near Golconda in 1550. Its size is about half of a hen's egg. 2. Avery large diamond, weighing 193 carats, is said to have been the eye of an idol, and about the size of a pigeon's egg. It was stolen by a French soldier, who escaped with it to Madras ; and it came subsequently into the hands of Prince OrlofiF, of whom the late Catherine, Empress of Russia, purchased it for 90,000/., an annuity of 4000/., and a title of nobility. 3. The Pitt or Regent diamond is said to have been found in Malacca, and was purchased by a Mr. Pitt for 20,000/. ; it weighed 410 carats. He brought it to London, and had it cut, which reduced its weight to 136i carats, and he then sold it to the Duke of Orleans for 100,000/. It is now in the crown jewels of France, and may be said to be the finest brilliant in Europe. 4. The Emperor of Austria possesses the largest yellow diamond known, weighing 139J carats ; this formerly belonged to the Grand Duke of Tuscany. 5. The Pigot diamond is valued at 40,000/., and is said to have been sold lately to the Pacha of Egypt by a jeweller in London. It is of the finest water. 6. A green brilliant of exquisite beauty and great size, but of irregular form, is worn by the King of Saxony, when in court dress, as a button to the plume in his hat. 7. Several fine diamonds are among the crown jewels of our royal family. Models in glass of the principal diamonds in Europe may be purchased. 6370. The Greek and Latin names of this precious gem is adamas, invincible, in allusion to its extreme hardness, whence is derived the English adjective adamantine. 6371. It differs from all other gems in not being composed of earth, but of carbon : and it is remarkable, that Sir Isaac Newton conjectured that it was a combustible body long before it was discovered by experiment to be so, from observing its great power to refract light. The colours of diamonds are various. The finest are colourless in themselves, and have only what they derive from refracting the rays of light. These are sA'ld to be of the purest water. Some have a tinge of pink, red, blue, or green, which arc next in estimation. Yellow diamonds are common, though much esteemed. Brown diamonds are less valuable, and still less so are those which are cloudy or have flaws. 6372. Diamonds arc alwai/.sfound in the loose alluvial soil, and not embedded in ancient solid rocks like the other gems. India and Brazil are the two chief countries which pro- duce them: in the former, Golconda, Visapour, Bengal, and Borneo, are the principal diamond districts. What are called diamond mines are places where the loose sand and other stony materials arc washed in water, to separate the precious stones : a great 3 Y 4