BATHING. 1227 HAP. III. f^. &2i: the sea beyond the autumnal months, and some even in winter; but it will scarcely ever be proper to commence bathing at the latter time. 7228. Tlie time of day for bathing in the sea must depend partly upon the locality and state of the tide ; but independently of these considerations, the best time, either as a measure of hygiene or as a remedy will be about noon, that is, two or three houi's after breakfast, when the system is sufficiently recruited by the morning's meal : but, should the sun be very powerful at this time, an earlier hour should be chosen. When the con- stitution is strong, the temperature of the surface high, and the person refreshed and active when he rises from his bed, the bath may be taken before breakfast. The tempe- rature of the water on the sea-shore will vary with the locality, the hour of the day, and the time of high water. If the shore consist of level sand or shingle, the tide which flows in the afternoon over a large expanse of surface is somewhat heated. 7229. In cases of relaxed habits, when there is a tendency to perspiration on slight exertion, or to cold clammy perspiration in bed, the salt-water bath proves eminently useful, particularly when combined with dry pure air and a bracing climate, such as is found on the airy downs along the southern shores of our island. It acts as a preventive of the numerous family of catarrhal diseases which are the result of debility : and it strengthens in a peculiar manner the skin and mucous membranes of the air-passages, the relaxation of which are so productive of catarrh on the least change of temperature. With this view, sea-bathing should be practised for some time during the summer season, and afterwards the shower-bath : during the winter it will he proper to employ sponging OQ the chest and trunk. When considerable irritability of the system is shown by the state of the mental functions, and the hypochondriasis of literary persons, cold sea-bathing is particularly useful: but in a state of actual indigestion, especially if complicated with sub-acute inflammation of the mucous membranes of the stomach or intestines, cold bathing is very injurious. It is serviceable in cases of torpor and loss of power, and in weakness of the limbs, and after spasms and paralysis. Simple as the cold bath appeal's, yet, like all other remedies, it requires caution; in infancy and old age it is less admissible than at other times, and it is quite improper if the debility is great; and hence, previous to entering upon a course of sea-bathing, it is prudent to consult a physician resident upon the spot. 7230. Warm salt-water bath.—Saline impregnations modify the effects of the warm bath. The warm salt-water bath is sensibly more stimulating than the warm bath of fresh water. Accordingly, to those who are strong, after fatigue, much more refreshment is conveyed by a warm sea-bath than by an ordinary warm bath ; and many of those who are of that exhausted habit that they would be enfeebled by the latter, take the former with benefit, and sensible improvement of strength : hence some of the contradictory ac- counts sometimes given of the effects of warm bathing. Baths with saline impregnations can be borne for a longer per iod, and are followed by less exhaustion, than those of pure water ; and patients are less liable to take cold after the former. Sect. VI. AIR. 231. The subject of the necessity of breathing good air has been already treated of in Book III. "On Ventilation." We may here state that the air is chiefly contaminated by exhalations from decomposing animal and vegetable substances; the exhalations from animal matters are most abundant in towns, pnrticularly in large manufacturing towns, where there are numerous poor; in such places not only are the habitations uncleanly, but the system of sewerage is imperfect; matters are left to accumulate instead of being carried off, and poured out into rivers or reservoirs ; large dunghills are sometimes seen