GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XL 844 4769. Towel rollers, fig. 716., are generally fixed in kitchens, to hang kitchen towels on, and frequently the door is selected to contain theui, as saving the wall for something else. The roller takes out to put on the towell. 4770. Hot closets.— One of the improvements in modern kitchens, is the facility with which the va- rious dishes are kept hot when they are ready before they are wanted ; this is effected by means of hot closets, which are indispensable when large dinners are prepared. A hot closet is merely a closet with shelves, "•Kfig- 718., of a size proportioned to the number of dishes kept very warm in the inside by flues or steam. Several examples of these may be seen in our subsequent representa- tions of kitchen arrangements. They are sometimes made of cast-iron and placed in a recess over the kitchen oven or Fig. 7)7. roaster, and heated by the smoke and heat that has come from the oven. They may also be heated by steam after it has served to heat boilers. The smoke or steam circulates in a space around the outside of the closet, c, U, e,f, coming in at one point and going out at another ; the doors, which are not represented in the woodcut, being kept shut. The dishes are placed upon the shelves. 4771. Fig. 718. is a portable hot closet, heated by steam, made entirely of tin plate. The outer case consists of two thick- nesses of tin plate, having the steam between : a pipe from the boiler con- veys the steam to the apparatus and the condensed water runs oS by a pipe with a stop-cock at the bottom. 4772. A hot closet may-also be made in the screen that stands before the kitchen range, by various modes. A screen with a closet within being con- structed on the principle of the above figui'e, steam is conveyed by a pipe in the floor and introduced into the space between the closet and the outside casing, the condensed water passing off by another pipe. Sometimes, when more heat is required, steam is not only carried all round the hot closet, but even in the shelves, as in fig.719.; these being of tin, and double, with the space between about an inch and a half. 4773. An economical and excellent hot closet is formed by taking a common screen for m It Fig. 718. Fig. 720. placing before a kitchen fire when meat is roasting, and closing up the front or side next the fire, with sheet iron blacked; forming a door at the back for putting in and taking out the articles to be kept hot. As black iron absorbs the heat power- fully, the air inside, not being able to escape when the doors are shut, becomes very hot. When it is desired to use this hot closet as a hastener in roasting meat, it is only necessary to hang in front, before the black iron, a covering of tinned sheet-iron, which may be in two or more plates, according to the size of the hastener, for convenience of lifting on and oif. Fig. 720. is a back view of such a movable hot closet, with the door open, showing the shelves, &c. In many cases, white sheet-iron will be preferable to black iron, because, while it reflects the heat, and hastens the meat, it will con- duct and radiate quite enough into the hot closet; and what is collected there will not so easily escape again as through the black sheet-iron ; this kind of hot closet, it should be observed, is liable to an inconvenience; the wood shrinks so much by the great heat of the fire, that draughts of cold air penetrate into it; these openings, when they occur, must be stopped up by the carpenter, except he is in- genious enough to provide a better remedy. It may not be necessary to have the whole of the screen converted into a closet for keeping the cooked dishes hot; the upper half alone may be found sulficient, and the lower part may be used as a plate wanner, in which case two sets of doors will be proper. 4774. Plate warmers are quite necessary in establishments where hot closets are not used in the kitchen, and frequently in the dining room. Those used in the kitchen may be fitted up in the fire-screen on a small scale, as \nfig. 721.; these are made of wood lined with tin, and may have a door in the back to take out the plates and dishes.