1232 PRESERVATION OF lIIiALTII. Book XXVI. SuBSECT. 7. — Headache from Ind'igcsliuii. 7251. Headache may arise from numerous causes, with which at present we havd nothing to do. We speak now of that kind of headache whicli people know arises from indigestion ; the bowels being a little more costive than usual, the food having been different from the accustomed routine, are circumstances which in particular individuals are often followed by a heavy, tense headache, situated oyer the eyes, or over one e)e and over one temple, or else extending all over the head. There is often a difficulty in casting the eyes up suddenly to the ceiling ; the eyes look heavy, and under them is a darkened circle ; there is also present a feeling of sickness, uneasiness and weight in the stomach, particularly after meals ; the bowels are costive ; there is flatulency ; the urine is turbid ; the tongue is white ; the mouth parched or clammy ; the breath is often a little foetid, and the food may be tasted for several hours after it has been taken. 7252. Treatment. — If there be much nausea, and feeling of weight and distension, an emetic of ipecacuanha becomes necessary. To an adult of twenty years and upwards from fifteen grains to one scruple will be a good dose: for a boy of twelve years, half a scruple will be sufficient. Warm chamomile tea may be drank afterwards ; it keeps up the sickness, and effectually dislodges all offending matter from the stomach. After the emetic has fully acted, an aperient mixture should be given. To avoid these headaches, attention to diet and the state of the bowels are the great points to be regarded. The diet should be simple, without fermented liquor; animal food should be taken once a day. To regulate the bowels, nothing is better than dinner pills, containing a little rhubarb, aloes, and compound extract of colocynth; when the bowels are got into a regular state these should be discontinued. SuBSECT. 8. — Hysterical Fits and Affections. 7253. An hysterical fit, although generally a very innocent thing, is sufficiently alarming when seen for the first time. Although most usual in excitable and ill-regulated minds, it may occur iu the most sensible and calm-judging person. Sudden shocks, fright, great mental emotion, grief, joy, anger, will produce in any one an hysterical fit of more or less violence. The fit is often preceded by a feeling of faintness, and of choking, as if a ball were rising in the throat, interfering with swallowing, and even with speech. Then comes on a violcut fit of screaming, sobbing, mingled with wild bursts of laughter: the eyes are closed ; the breath is drawn with labour ; the face becomes red ; and the limbs perhaps convulsed ; the throat is grasped violently, or the hair is torn, or the hands or feet are beaten violently against the ground. In fifteen or twenty minutes the fit goes off, and the patient comes to herself, having been unconscious the whole time, or more often retaining a distinct recollection of the occurrences around her, although she may pretend not to do so. During the fit all that is necessai-y is to see that the patient does not receive any injury by rolling violently off the bed or sofiu She should be prevented striking and injuring herself, but beyond this, there is no reason to employ force to restrain her movements. The sudden dashing of cold water in the face is often of service ; some advise salt to be put into the mouth. K hysteria always assumed this form, it would be a mild and tractable affection, instead of being, as it is, one of the most difficult to treat in the whole range of medicine. But the social position of women diversifies this disease in a hundred different ways. The conventionalities of society; the strife after fashion; the desire of approbation; the intense longing for sympathy ; the mortification of failure ; the excessive cultivation of the intellect as compared with the physical frame and strength; the excitation of the moral faculties by theatrical exhibitions, and by the innumerable works of imagination which derive their interest from delusive views of life and actual society, all tend to create a struggle and mental contest, which, in the susceptible organisation of the educated woman, ends in many instances in one of the numerous forms of hysterical disease. We make these remarks, not in the shape of a crusade against the present system of female education, for this, as far as we know, has improved and will improve still more ; but we wish to point out to the parents of an hysterical patient, how valuable and indeed indispensable to the medical man is their assistance in the treatment of the complaint. What advantage can medicines give, or the professional attendance for ten minutes a day, if the cause of all the disorder, the important mental process, be left unremedied.^ If parents will not a.ssist in the treatment of these complaints, the physician cannot restrain them, nor are they " curable by any herbs." The mind must not be left to itself, nor must works of imagination and of absorbing interest be allowed, under the idea of amuse- ment. If possible, some pursuit, interesting yet not exciting, should be inculcated —some plan by which the intellectual and moral faculties are gratified, but not roused into violent and opposing action.