1 '106 CARRIAGES. Book XXIII. axles, having wheels on each end, in a similar manner to some of those first used on the railroads (Jiy. 840.). But the construction at present of carriages for pleasure, which are drawn by horses, is much more complicated; and to explain the origin and nature of their structure requires that we should enter into some previous details. When four-wheeled carriages / .J^xC^-^^zfTvz^ZZ ^^^^ ^^^^ ^^'^^ simple form we have mentioned, it .V-4==^^^^^ would be found that they would go perfectly well upon straight v«: roads, or where there was very little bend ; but that it would be difficult to make them turn in a confined space, because, while turning, both axles being fixed, the fore wheels would partly drag along the ground, instead of revolving like the hind wheels. This inconvenience is now obviated by a very ingenious con- trivance, which is adopted in all four-wheeled vehicles. 6611. Although, in covinwn language, the term carriage is applied to the whole vehicle, yet, among coach-makers, it is more limited in its application ; according to them, the vehicle consists of two parts, the body, and the carriage; the first being the receptacle for the passengers, and the second the system of frame-work with the wheels, to which the body is fixed or suspended. The carriage part is also divided into two, called the upper and u?ider carriage, these being separate and distinct framings. The upper carriage or framing, remains either attached to the body, a a (see fig. 841., which represents the under side), or at least always remains in the same relative position with respect to it, and it contains the hind axle with its two wheels, b b. But the under carriage or framing, which contains the axle w ith the fore wheels, c c, is so contrived that it is movable on a centre, d, i ^f^- ■ ■ into oblique positions, the use of which is, that being / y ' " by its movable property always at right angles to the Fis- direction of the road, represented by the dotted lines, its wheels can revolve instead of dragging along the ground, as they must have done if fixed to the body like the hind ones. Thus though both axles are parallel while moving forward in a straight line, they are no longer so while the carriage is turning. The fore wheels may be con- sidered as the conductor of the carriage, and their axle is turned by means of a long horizontal lever attached to it, called the pole, passing between the horses. This taming of the fore axle is termed " locking." If the body be considered as a large open box, having the hind axle fixed on the under side, and the fore axle turning on a pin in its centre, we shall have the construction of the ordinary four-wheeled carts, and perhaps of the most ancient carriages. But the introduction of the present manner of hanging the body by straps or braces, to lessen the concussion from rough roads, caused the carriage part to be detached from the body, and the hind and fore axles, with their wheels, to be connected together, not by the body, but by a separate long piece of wood or iron, d e, called the pe7-ch of the carriage. The under carriage turns upon a pin, called the perch bolt, passing through it and the perch, thus con- necting them together, while the perch is fixed immovably to the hind axle. The two axles with the perch now become the proper carriage part, and, if detached from the body, may be drawn together alone by the horses, as may be frequently seen when repairs or alterations are being made, and in breaks for horses. This construction, however, of au upper and an under carriage, though productive of so much advantage in turning, has given rise also to some imperfections. It is obvious that if the body be as long as the distance between the axles, when the fore axle is turned into an oblique position, it will come into contact with it, and be prevented from moving farther round, except the body be placed so high that all the wheels may pass beneath it: but this great elevation of the centre of gravity would be unsafe and inconvenient, and has led to making the fore wheels smaller than the hind ones, that they alone may pass beneath the body in turning; or that the body should be modified so that the fore wheels shall not interfere with it, which is sometimes effected by cutting away a portion of the front under part, called by the coach-makers, technically, a " step piece." These considerations have been the occa- sion of the custom that has long been universal, of making the fore and hind wheels of carriages of different sizes; and some have erroneously imagined that a mechanical advantage has been thus obtained; whereas, on the contrary, the fore wheels, being smaller than the hind ones, lose somewhat of leverage, and, besides being obliged to make more revolutions in the same time than the hind ones, have increased friction, and wear out sooner: but, notwithstanding these defects, the great accommodation in turning has caused the practice to be continued. 6612. Having now given the simplest ideaof the principles hyrchich a modern four-wheeled carriage is enabled tn turn easily, and which is essential to its perfection, we shall proceed to describe the actual structure of the carriage of a coach, as this will enable the reader to understand more clearly that of any other travelling wheel vehicle.