ON LIGHT AND FLAME. IIHAP. I. 121 iilished, much more is reflected; and this quantity is in proportion to the degree of I Moothness; for this reason all reflectors should be kept highly polished, which will be lown by their appearing bright. : 540. Curved surfaces reflect light according to the same law; viz. that the angles of icidence and of reflection in each ray are exactly the same. To illustrate this, suppose iconcave mirror, fig. 90., of which the centre of concavity is at a : or, in other words, lat a is the centre of the circle, of which curve of the mirror B C is a portion: if a lamber of parallel rays, d e, such as those of the sun, strike upon the mirror B C, each parate ray will be reflected so that its angle of reflection will be equal to its angle incidence ; but, from the nature of the curved surface, the result will be, that all the cflected rays will meet together in one point; and this point will be exactly half way stween the centre, a, and the surface of the mirror: such a mirror, if of sufficient size, ould collect the sun's rays so as to burn at the point f. Now suppose that an arti- cial light, as a lamp or candle, was placed in the point/, the rays will diverge towards lie mirror, and they will be reflected so as to be parallel in the direction de. It is poon this principle that a light may be sent to a vast distance ; and thus the light from lee candles in coach-lamps are confined to the space along the road. If the light should ' via % I '—'^^-^ Fig. 90. Fig. 01. oe placed between a and /, as at k, fig. 91., then the rays will be collected in a point mrther ofiF than a, as at g; and if it is placed nearer to the mirror than f, as at m, the cfeflected rays wUl diverge, as h, i. 541. Reflectors are sometimes made by placing a number of small flat pieces of mirror so that the middle of each just touches the curve of a circle, as in fig. 92. This arrange- ment of mirrors, though less perfect than a single curved mirror, acts nearly in the same manner, each small piece throwing its rays to the centre of the circle. Here the greater the number of pieces the better, so that they are set accurately. This kind of reflection is often used, where the size is vei"y large, or where economy is much an object, no grinding to a curved surface being necessary. Fig, 92. 542. Light may be also collected and concentrated by means •if glass lenses. This depends upon a very different principle from the reflexion of light. ! t is caused by what is termed the refraction of light, which is the change in their direction ifhich rays undergo when they pass out of one transparent substance into another of a lilifferent density ; but for the laws of refraction we must refer the reader to some work on 'pptics, as our limited space will not admit of its explanation in this work. We shall 'lontent ourselves with giving some of the most useful practical results. 543. A lens is a piece of glass ground with one or both surfaces spherical. A com- plete sphere of glass, or a hollow globe filled with water, is sometimes employed to collect the rays of light into a point or focus. If a candle or lamp, a, be placed near to such a globe, b c, fig. 93., the rays, after diverging, will, by passing through the globe, be made to converge to a point d on the other side of the globe; and since all the light that falls upon this globe will be collected into a very small spot, this will, of course, be strongly illumi- nated. This contrivance is often used by jewellers and others for procuring an intense light to be thrown upon their work. 544. A plain convex lens is a circular glass flat on one side, and ground spherically on the other, as in fig. 94. This col- lects the rays into a focus, which is more distant than in the case of the globe; and the curved side may be either the half or a segment of a sphere. It is used in some lamps, and the focus may be farther off or nearer, according to the place of the light. 545. A double convex lens, fig. 95., is likewise employed for a similar purpose, and is Fig.9i.