UEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL 542 n>^ r,wi ,„iM, ,'i ''""o'^"'' Other forms are likowise cinployccl (o suit particular purposes. lu order to rniso 5'"= "'■e'^'-. wlien requireJ, either to chaiiKe or to tali.- out the loose matter, a standard is ,n"^o winding round the rod with tl with three poles over the W(dl, to which a tackle is fixed. ^ „>. and lengtli upon length are screwed together as the horing proceeds, inches wide, and the gouge three inches and a quarter. Haising the i every time the auger has to be withdrawn, which occupies a considerah abour is much increased, as they can get through only by repeated beating the toolup anXdown to purverUe them. When tliey arrive, at the spring of water which has been expected" the hole is made smooth by paw! The usual length of each rod Is about seven feel • " The chisel is generally about four . . rods and displacing them is effecUid which occupies a considerable time. If they meet with rocks, the Pipe made of tin or other metal is forced down This keeps the , , . - n lengtlu hole open, and prevents the .nlmixture of iiig up and down a rod for this purpose, and a which are soldered together as they go down. water from any of the small springs in the side. Upon the whole, the bbring is peVfirmed with'mo'rc-facUUy than could be imagined by those who never tried it. ■"<-...ij. Borings are now made to the depth of several hundred feet, which supply a plentiful stream of w.iter If the original source Irom which the water comes be higher than the surface of the ground where the bo'rinir IS made, the water will overllow ; but if the source be at a lower level then the boring th.m the water will not rise to the surlace of the ground, .ind it will he necessary to dig a well to the depth to which the sprine pump ' ^'^"'^^ " reservoir to contain the water, which must be raised to the surface by a 3043. When a well is formed, it seldom happens that the water rises quite to the surface of the earth • and It is then requisite to have some contrivance by which it is made to reach that level. ' A great variety of methods of raising water from wells has been practised at different times and in various countries, each of which may have some convenience or advantage according to the locality, and other circumstances. 3044. The lever and biwhct {fig. 544.) is one of the most simple of these. A long pole, supported by a post, acts as a lever to raise the bucket, and from the end of the lever the water may be raised even by a child, by a very trifling exertion. This method is common among the market gardeners near London : but it is only calcu- lated for those cases where the water is very near the surface. It has the advantage of the greatest simplicity, as it can be con- structed by any person that can make the lever and upright 3045. The next method is the bucket raised by a windlass, fig. 545. When the well is very deep, or a great supply is wanted, this may be assisted by machinery turned by any of the ordinary powers. 3046. But the most convenient method of raising water is by means of pumps, which will be described imder " Kitchen Furniture," Book XL Chap. IIL 3047. An old, but ingenious mode of raising water from a well to the upper part of a house is sometimes adopted on the Continent. A post is fixed close to the well; this is connected by a fixed cord with the window or other open- ing in the upper part of the house where the water is to be introduced. On this cord a wooden collar is placed, ^'S- s-is- and slides ft'eely from one end to the other: the bucket rope is put through the hole in the collar, and over a pulley in the window, and thus the bucket is raised, first perpendicularly from the water in the well till it comes in contact with the collar, when, the power being continued, the collar slides along the fixed rope, till, together with the bucket, they reach the operator in the window. 3048. It may be proper briefly to notice a few other simple methods of raising water from one level to another, which are occasionally employed. 3049. Chain of buckets. — This consists of a number of buckets fastened to a chain or rope, the two ends of which are united ; the chain goes over a wheel, and hangs down into the well, with its buckets having their mouths downwards as they descend. On arriving there the buckets become filled with water, and by the turning of the wheel and the motion of the chain they are brought up, while those on the other side of the chain go down empty. 3050. The Spanish noira is a chain of buckets or earthen jars, generally worked by an ass. 3051. When large buckets arc used for deep wells, they are often made to descend with their mouths upwards, and made heavy to sink in the water. They have a valve in the bottom, which rises upwards as the bucket sinks, but shuts again when the bucket is raised. 3052. The Persian wheel is a large wheel with buckets suspended from the circimiference, but so swung that they always hang perpendicularly ; of course one half comes up full, while the other goes down empty. 3053. The chain pump is a very simple mode of raising water. It consists of a square or round barrel, placed perpendicularly. A chain is made to pass through this barrel, having on it a great many flat pieces of wood very nearly of the same shape and size as the inside of the barrel. The lower end of the barrel being immersed in water, and the wheel turned round, the cfuiiu, with its floats or valves, forces up a body of water that fills the barrel. These pumps are found very useful on shipboard, and for draining ponds, &c. Sometimes stuff"ed cushions are used instead of the boards. This pump is often placed in an inclined position.