Book XXM 1250 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. is best done hj having two large pieces of flannel, and dipping one into water as hot can be borne, then wringing it quickly out, placing it on the bowels, and in the course a few moments, when it begins to cool, changing it with the other flannel, also dipped in wrung out, and this should be repeated for an hour or more. 7324. The clothes on the bed should not be too thick ; the physician will of course sn. to this ; if the patient appear cold, hot bottles should be put to the feet ; if there be any accumulation of blood in the head, the feet are often cold; in this case they should be wrapt up in flannel, and hot bottles constantly applied. SuBSECT. 1. —Early Stages of Fever. 7325. During the early stages of fever there are certain symptoms which must be par- ticularly noticed, and reported without fail to the physician. It should be noticed how much sleep the patient gets, whether this is deep or disturbed, whether there is any con- fusion or forgetfulness on awakening ; this does not of itself prove that delirium is coming on ; but as it is really often the commencement of it, it should not be overlooked ; during sleep, too, it should be noticed whether the breathing is regular and deep, or whether it is quick and shallow. Any little cough should not be overlooked. 7326. Again, the nurse should observe whether there is an increase of fever at any particu- lar time of the day ; such increase is denoted by the skin becoming hotter, the pulse quicker by from six to twenty beats ; by the face flushing, the eyes becoming more sparkling, and by the patient being thirstier, and complaining more of headache. The number and kinds of the stools, &c. also should be examined into. Patients are often exceedingly thirsty at this period of the fever ; they may drink as freely as they like, and of all beverages cold water is the best. Lemonade is not so good, as in such large quan- tities it tends to disorder the stomach. The patient usually refuses to take any food, and it should not be pressed upon him from any mistaken idea of giving strength, for it is the fever which exhausts as much as the starving, and it is the former which is to be dreaded; get rid of it, and the debility is generally easily remedied ; besides, if food be pressed upon a stomach not demanding it, it will do no good; it will not be digested and assimilated properly, but will pass down into, and perhaps stimulate the intestines, and cause diarrhoea, with certain formidable ulterior consequences. In addition to what has been now said, it is of course essential that such medicines as are ordered should be given regularly at the appointed times, both day and night. SuBSECT. 2. — The latter Stages of Fever. 7327. In the latter stages of fever, the weakness is the thing with which the nurse has most to do. It is of the highest importance to give the food which is ordered regu- larly. The patient is perhaps dreadfully emaciated, weakened to the last degree, and if left without nourishment for several hours together would perhaps fall a victim to debility alone. It is during the night that a person requires most support; it is during this time that such support is most likely to be forgotten. The food should be given fre- quently, and in small quantities; the exact quantity of food, and time of taking it, depend upon the weakness and the appetite of the patient, and necessarily vary in each particular case. If wine be ordered also, it should be given frequently, and in small quantities mixed with water. It should never be forgotten by nurses, that wine by itself has no nourishing power; it is only employed by the medical man to sustain the failing strength by its exciting agency, till such time as the food taken may have in some degree restored the tone of the body. If therefore wine flushes the face, quickens the pulse, and excites headache, it is doing too much ; the body is over excited. 7328. With regard to the kind of food: at first it must be simple and farinaceous, and afterwards a transition may be made to beef tea, veal and chicken broth, &c., to prepare which we refer to the article on " Cooking for Invalids." Also, during the latter stages of fever, great care should be taken to preserve perfect cleanliness—often a very difficult matter, for the discharges are often somewhat decomposed, and of a bad smell; the sheets should be changed every day, or more often if necessary, and when taken off should be immersed immediately in a pail of water ready at the bed-room door, and to which sonic of Labarroque's disinfecting liquid shoiUd be added ; some of this should also be sprinkled about the room. 7329. The patient should not be suffered to lie too long in one position, but should be gently moved from one side to another, because in these long illnesses, if parts be too much pressed upon, they become sore ; therefore, towards the end of a severe fever, the physician generally examines the lower part of the back and the sides of the sick man. to see if there be any appearance of a sore place ; if he does not do this, the friends should see to it ; this examination should never be left to the nurse alone. Directly a part appears discoloured, you may be sure it is too much pressed upon : tlu patient should be placed in some other position, and propped up by pillows ; pillow- should also be put above and below the part, to take off the pressure. Certain application^