Chap. T. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 903 5174. Forcemeat for veal or turkey roasted. — A forcemeat for roasted veal or turkey sliould be made of equal quantities of finely minced suet and grated bread, somewhat less than a quarter of a pound of each. About two ounces of each will be enough for a turkey poult. Some add, finely chopped, some parsley, sweet marjoram, lemou thyme, some grated lemon-peel, a very small slice of onion (minced extremely fine), a little pepper and salt. When these are mixed equally together the whole must be united by adding an egg to it, or, if insufficient, two eggs, previously -well beaten, must be employed to bring it into one consistent mass. Forcemeat for boiled turkey. — Chop half a pound of lean veal, two anchovies, the same quantity of beef suet, a few oysters (bearded), some bread crumbs, incorporated together with yolks of eggs. To these some cooks add a flavour of herbs. Stuff the crop of the turkey, and prepare it for boiling. 5175. Sttifflngjor goose or ducks Chop onions very small, with half the quantity of sage leaves. To these add a tea-cnpful of grated bread, a small lump of butter, some pepper and salt, and incorporate the whole with the yollt .md white of an egg beaten up. , ^ . ^ , , Another w.iy Boil the onions and sage, and then chop them very small, and put into the goose or ducks without any other addition except that of pepper and salt. 5176. Sltifflng for hare or roasted rabbit. — If the liver be perfectly fresh, parboil it, and mince it very fine ; add to it a small tea-cupful of beef suet chopped fine, the same quantity of grated bread, a bunch of parsley also finely chopped, some marjoram, lemon thyme, and grated lemon-peel, together with a shred or two of eschalot, and a little pepper and salt Mix these together with an egg into a tolerably stiff mass ; put them into the hare, and sew up the skin. 5177. Stuffing for roasted pigeons, the same as for veal. For stewed pigeons, boil and bruise the livers, .-ind add to them a little butter, a few bread-crumbs, some pepper, salt, pounded cloves, chopped parsley, and sweet herbs; mix these ingredients together, and put a portion into each pigeon. 5178. Forcemeat for pies. — A pound of lean veal trimmed of all the sinews and skins, and chopped with lialf a poimd of fat bacon, some powdered herbs, a little salt, two eggs, and a little mushroom catsup ; these mixed together may be used roUed up with best olives, or made into balls, and added to pies or some made dishes. 5179. A forcemeat of rabbit. — Take a pound or more of the meat of wild rabbits; add to it two pounds of fat bacon, chop both together, and afterwards pound them with a fla- vouring of herbs, a little salt, two yolks and one white of an egg. SuBSE^T. 2.—Flavouring Ingredients. We may remind the reader that the several spices, and mustard,* have been described in Book VII. Chap. X.; and salt is treated of in Book X. Chap. III. Sect. III. 5180. To prepare mustard for use. — In this country mustard is simply made with milk, water, vinegar, or wine. The flour of mustard should be kept dry in a bottle properly corked. First method.—When made with water in the usual way, it has for some little time a bitter taste. To avoid this, rub in a mortar one table-spoonful of the flour of mustard with two of milk or cream, half a tea-spoonful of salt, and the same of lump sugar powdered. Secmid method. — Made with vinegar, they should be rubbed together smooth for upwards of seven or eight minutes, and when done should be of the consistency of thick cream. Put it into a stone jar, and closely stopped it will keep good for a fortnight. That which is put into the table mustard-pot should not be more in quantity than what will be con- sumed in one or two days ; the air soon causes it to turn sour if it be exposed. Third method, according to Dr. Kitchener. — Boil three ounces of salt in a quart of boiling water or vinegar, and pour it hot on two ounces of scraped horse-radish. Closely cover the jar, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Strain and mix it by degrees with the best Durham flour of mustard; beat well together till quite smooth and of the thickness of cream. Put it into a wide-mouthed bottle and stop it close. 5181. The French flavour their mustard with Champagne, Madeira, or other wines ; or with vinegar flavoured with capers, anchovies, tarragon, elder, basil, burnet, garlic, escha- lot, celery, adding cayenne or various spices, or sweet savoury, or fine herbs, truffles, catsup, &c.; in short, considering mustard only as a vehicle for flavours. Some of these are to be had in the London shops, as Moutarde de Maille, de Bordui, &c. Spices, such as nutmeg, mace, allspice, should be powdered and kept dry in bottles. When powdered these ingredients go much farther, and more readily give out their flavour, besides being more ready at the moment they are wanted. SuBSEcr 3. — Sweet and Savoury Herbs, dried. 5182. As the various herbs used as condiments cannot be had at all times of the year in a fresh state, means have been found for preserving their flavours. Drying and reducing them to powder is one of the methods practised. The common method of drying is to put them into paper bags, and lay tliem on a shelf in the kitchen exposed to all the fumes, steam, smoke, &c., by which they soon lo.se their flavour; but the following method is greatly preferable. The substances to be preserved should be gathered on a fine day, at 3 M 4