911 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Chap. I. •of an egg and some cream into the sauce; put in the pieces of asparagus, and let them boil two or three minutes. Serve it up in a dish garnished with fried toasts. You may occasionally vary this dish by adding green onions and chopped parsley to the asparagus. 5253. Cucumbers.— A fresh-gathered cucumber requires to be pared and thinly sliced; put the slices for-about a quarter of an hour into cold spring water. Before you dress them, take them out, and let them drain on a napkin for a minute ; put them into a dish and add oil, vinegar, and plenty of cayenne and black pepper. Sprinkle them of course with a little salt. Cucumber thus dressed is now eaten with boiled fish ; as turbot, salmon, and mackarel. Another way of dressing cucumbers is to cut them into slices about the thickness of a crown piece, and let them soak in vinegar and salt for half an hour. When taken out dry them with a napkin, and fry them in butter of a very light brown ; take them out of the pan when sufficiently done, and let them drain before the fire. To the butter in which they have been fried, add some flour, and incorporate them well; moisten this with veal gravy and the yolk of an egg; work the sauce well, and when reduced to a proper consistence, season it, and pour it over the fried slices of cucumber. 5254. Green peas. — According to the English fashion, they only require to be gathered yoimg and dressed on the same day. They ought to boil fast; mint may be put with them or omitted, as it may be most agreeable. A few taken out of the pot with a spoon and tasted wUl indicate when they are done enough. When properly drained in the cullender, have ready a couple of pie-dishes made hot, into one of which put the peas with some pieces of butter, and cover it with the other ; then invert the dishes four or five times, that the butter may be equally distributed among the peas, and serve them up hot. 5255. Windsor beans, when young, are to be simply boiled, and served up with parsley and butter. When old, the external skin may be taken off after they have been boiled, and the green part well mashed over a gentle fire, adding butter and a little flour, chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. You may cover the top with grated Parmesan cheese, and apply the salamander, or you may include in the mashed beans some pieces of boiled bacon, cut into such shapes as may be most approved. 5256. French beans. — In order to have them gi-een at table, they should be gathered young, and trimmed, stringed, and divided. Boil them fast in water with some salt. Do not divide each bean into more than four pieces, as they lose their flavour when shred, and become watery. All French beans should be of the same growth ; for if the young be mixed with the old, they will be unequally done. 5257. Salad. — The component vegetables of a salad are very numerous, and there are various modes of dressing it. Whatever may be selected should be fresh gathered, scru- pulously washed, and it should lie for some time in cold spring water. Let it be trimmed for the table, so that there may be no cutting off any refuse parts when brought to it. To be in perfection, a salad should be eaten the moment it is dressed: if it soak in the materials, it becomes vapid and flaccid. It is always best to have the materials ready mixed to pour on the salad. If mustard be employed as one of the ingredients, it ought to be made the day before. The vegetables, when taken out of the water, should be properly drained : this is best effected by swinging them in a clean napkin, together with gentle pressure ; when dripping wet, they dilute the vinegar, which should be strong and sparingly used. As many persons cannot digest a mixture of boiled egg with mustard, oil, and vinegar, the two former may be omitted: indeed, the best and most elegant salads are composed of two parts of oil, with one of strong vinegar, and a sprinkling of salt; in winter, a small quantity of cayenne pepper may be added. Sect. X. PUDDINGS, TARTS, AND SWEET DISHES. SuBSECT. 1.—Puddings. 5258. Plain family rice pudding, baked. — Put into a pie-dish rice washed and picked, in the proportion of a quart of milk to four table-spoonfuls of rice, one of moist sugar, some grated lemon-peel, a stick of cinnamon, and two or three small pieces of cold butter. liCt this bake in a slow oven for three or even four hours. The milk must be new, or it will curdle. 5259. Another receipt for baked rice pudding. — Boil for a quarter of an hour a pint of milk and half a pint of cream, with a piece of lemon-peel and cinnamon ; sweeten it with powdered loaf sugar; strain it, and set it on to boil for the same time, with two ounces of ground rice. When cold, stir into it three table-spoonfuls of oiled butter, four eggs beaten, a glassful of Noyeau, and some grated nutmeg; sheet some puff paste round the rim of the dish, and bake it gradually. 5200. Hire pudding, boiled.—Take half a pound of Carolina rice ; steep it in milk for half an hour; that is, put it into cold milk, and set it by the fire to warm gently and