760 Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. begin to acquire a brown colour on the lower side, they are turned and baked on the other. 4326. Crumpets are made thus. The usual ingredients are one pound of flour, three table spoonfuls of yeast, and a sufficient quantity of milk or water to form a fluid paste. After having been suffered to rise, a portion of the fluid is poured on a heated iron plate, and baked quickly on either side successively, like a pancake. 4327. Gingerbread is made from .i dough composed of one pound of fine pollard, tliree-qnarters of a pound of treacle, half an ounce of the sub-carbonate of potash, lialf an ounce of butter, with waj m » ater sufScient to make it knead. Several spices are added, as ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, Cayenne pepper, or black pepper. The dough is kept for several days, sometimes nearly a fortnight, till a rising or fermentation is pro- duced by the action of the acid of tlie treacle, and of the sub-carbonate of potash, by which carbonic acid gas is disengaged very slowly ; it is then baked. A'i'lti. Jiesides the various preparations which we have described, and which go under the general denomi- nation of bread, a great many others are made by the confectioners and biscuit bakers, which are not fer- mented, but are rendered either brittle, or short, by the admixture of various substances, as milk, eggs, sugar, butter, and seasoned with seeds, spices, currants, &c. These will be treated of under " Coafectiouery," Book XV. Chap. I. Sect. VIII. RECEIPTS FOR MAKING YEAST. 4329. The difficulty of procuring yeast for baking, particularly in country places, at a dist.ance from brew- eries, constitutes, sometimes, a great inconvenience. Many endeavours have therefore been made to obvi.ate this difficulty, by the discovery of an easy mode of forming or of preserving yeast. We shall describe some of the best of these. 4330. The following method is slated by Mr. Fownrs in the " Philosophical Magazine." If common wheaten flour be mixed with water to a thick paste, and exposed, slightly covered, to spontaneous change, in a mode- rately warm place, it will, after the third day, begin to emit a little gas, and to exhale an exceedingly dis- agreeable sour odour, much like that of stale milk ; after the lapse of some time, this smell disappears, or changes in character ; the gas evolved is greatly increased, and is accompanied by a very distinct, and some- what agreeable vinous odour; this will happen about the sixth or seventh day, and the substance is then in a state to excite fermentation. A quantity of brewer's wort is next to be prepared in the usual manner, by boiling with hops; and when cooled to 90° or 100°, the altered dough above described, after being tho- roughly mixed with a little lukewarm water, is added to it, and the temperature kept up by placing the vessel in a w.irm situation. After the lapse of a few hours, active fermentation commences ; and when that is com- plete, and the liquid clear, a large quantity of excellent yeast is found at the bottom, well adapted to all pur- poses to which tliat substance is applied. 4331. Another method. — Take sixteen parts of ground malt, and add to it five parts of honey and one of powdered tartar ; mix the whole with water warmed to 122°, and place it in the proper temperature for fer- mentation ; yeast will be produced, which must be taken off in the usual manner. 4332. Method qf making yeast by the late Dr. Henry Boil flour and water to the consistence of treacle, and when the mixture is cold, saturate it with carbonic acid, or fixed air. Then pour it into large bottles ■with narrow mouths, which should be loosely covered with paper, and a weight to keep it douTi. Place them in the temperature of 70^ or 80° for twenty-four hours, stirring it two or three times. At the end of this time it will have fermented so much as to be of the consistence of yeast. Incorporate the dough to be made into bread with this artificial preparation, in the proportion of six pounds of the former to one quart of the latter, and a due quantity of warm water. The whole must now be kneaded together, covered with a cloth, and suf- fered to stand till it be sufficiently fermented, which perhaps may require twelve hours, wlien it should be formed into loaves and baked. Dr. Henry proposes this as a method that might be useful in making yea^i for baking at sea. In order to produce the carbonic acid in this way of making yeast, some have used the com- mon soda powders, and have proceeded in this manner. Some flour and water are boiled into thin paste, and a little of the soda powders (carbonate of soda and tartaric acid) mixed together stirred in ; tiiis will produce the carbonic acid gas, and the whole should be well stirred with a whisk, and kept in a warm place; it will soon ferment, and be a strong yeast. It is necessary that the two powders should be in such proportions as to neutralise each other, otiierwise the dough will taste acid or alkaline. The salt will give tiie bread some- what of an aperient quality, but it will be perfectly wholesome. 4333. Dr. Lettsom's method of making yeast—Thicken two quarts of water with four ounces of fine flour; boil it for half an hour, then sweeten it with three ounces of brown sugar ; when almost cold, pour it with four spoonfuls of baker's yeast into an earthen jug, deep enough for the fermentation to go on without running over ; place it for a day near the fire, then pour off the tliin liquor from the top, shake the remainder, and close it up for use; first strain it through a sieve. To preserve it sweet, set it in a rool cellar, or hang it some depth in a well. Keep alw.ays some of this to make the next quantity of yeast that is wanted. 4334. Yeast from potatoes:—Choose some potatoes of the mealy kind that are quite sound, and boil them; skin .and mash them very smooth, with boiling water; add water till they arc of the consistence of common beer yeast, not thicker ; then .idd two ounces of treacle to every pound of potatoes, and while tlie whole is yet warm, stir in for every pound of potatoes, two table spoonfuls of yeast. Set this before the fire, and it will soon begin to ferment, and in twenty-four hours, perhaps, tlie fermentation will be at the greatest height, when the yeast will l)e fit for use. Some add a little honey or other saccharine matter to the mashed potatoes. 4.33.5. Yeast cakes are made in America for the purpose of baking, and are tlius described by Cobbelt, in his " Cottage Economy: "—" The people of I>ong Island make a parcel of these cakes once a year, .and when they bake, tliey use them instead of leaven. To make them they use three ounces of good hops, three pounds and n half of rye flour, seven jiounds of Indian corn meal, and oiic gallon of water. Rub the hops so as lo separate them. Put them into the water, which is to be boiling .it the time. Let them boil half an hour; then strain the liquor through a fine sieve into an earthen vessel. While the liquor is hot, ^ut in the ryo flour, stirring tlie liquor well, and quickly, as •the rye flour goes into it. Tlie day afler, when it is working, put in the In- dian meal, stirring it well as it goes in. Before the Indian meal be all in, the mass will be very stifl"; and it will, In fact, be dounh, very much of the consistence of the dough th.at bread is made of. T.ike this dough, knead it well, as you would for pie-crust, roll it out with a rolling-pin, as you roll out pie-crust, to the thick- ness of .about a third of .an inch When you h.ave it, or a part of it at a time, rolled out, cut it up into cakes with a tumbler glass turned upside down, or with something else that will answer the s.ime purpose. Take a clean board, a tin may be better, and put the cakes to dry in the sun. Turn them every day ; let them receive no wet, .and they will become as hard as ship liiscult; put them into a bag or box, and keep them in a place per- fectly free from <lamp. wjicn you bake, take two rakes, of the thickness above-mentioned, and about tliree Inches In diameter ; put tlicm in hot water over nlghl, having cracked lliem first. Let the vessel containing them stand near the fire-place all night; they will dissolve by the morning, .and then you use them in setting your sponge, as it is called, precisely as you would use the yeast of beer. White pea meal, or barley meal will do .as well as Indian meal." 4330. Methods preserving yea.fl. —For this purpose it may be pressed in a bag, so as to separate the chief (i.art of the water, and then exposed to a gentle heat on a sieve; by this It will bo dried into a hard