1049 ClIAP. II. APPARATUS FOR DISTILLATION. and iramediutely introduced into a metal mortar, and rubbed to powder. Camphor lias a toui^hness under the pestle, but is easily reduced to powder when moistened with a few drops of alcoliol, or almond oil. Gum and resin, when pulverised, should be kept per- fectly dry, or they will concrete again; they are best pulverised in cold weather; in summer they get too soft. 6240. Tyitiiration and levigation mean a very minute division of substances in mortars of agate, or some very hard material, by a rotatory motion given to the pestle, or on a levi- gating stone, as a slab of marble or porphyry, or thick ground glass, rubbing or grinding the substances on it with a muller. In some cases it is necessary to add a little spirit or some liquid during the levigation, or reduction to an impalpable powder, to prevent its flying about. 6241. Granulation is the reduction of substances to visible grains. Salt may thus be made finer by rolling it with a rolling-pin. Jiasps are necessary for reducing to powder woods, barks, horn, ivory, bone, &c. Chipping and scraping ai'e likewise employed for the same purpose. 6242. The emulsive seeds cannot be reduced to powder, except some dry powder be added to them. For the aromatic oily substances, sugar is the best addition. 6243. Grinding with a mill is also employed for many things, chiefly seeds, as cofiFee pepper, &c. 6244. Solution. — In many operations it is necessary first to dissolve some of the sub- stances. Every one knows that salt will dissolve in water, but that sand or flint will not; this may give an idea of the distinction between soluble and insoluble substances ; but every substance, though insoluble in water, is soluble in something else ; and that some- thing is called its solvent or menstriium. Thus, limestone will not dissolve in water, but it will in strong acid like oil of vitriol ; likewise all the metals are insoluble in water, but they are all soluble in some acid or other ; thus, oil of vitriol will dissolve copper easily, but lead scarcely at aU, except it be heated. Resins are not soluble in water, but they are so in spirits of wine. Salt is soluble in cold water as well as in hot ; but water can dis- solve only a certain quantity of it, and then the solution is said to be saturated. Hot water dissolves more of some salts than cold, and when the hot water cools, it lets fall all the salt above the quantity that it could hold in solution when cold. On the contrary, water will dissolve sugar without any limit, until it becomes a syrup. Solutions are said to be concentrated or inspissated, when some of the water is driven from the solution by evaporation. This process with most animal and vegetable matters is best performed in a water-bath, to prevent burning, as in the case of portable soup. 624.5. Infusions are made by pouring water, either boiling, merely warm, or even cold, upon vegetable substances, and letting it stand for some time, without farther boiling. It is evident that the water here can only extract such matters as are soluble in that fluid. The ordinary beverage called tea is an infusion of tea leaves. 6246. Maceration differs from infusion, in being continued for a longer time, and can only be employed for substances which do not easily ferment or spoil. 6247. Digestion, on the other hand, differs from maceration and infusion, in the water or other menstruum being kept in a state of continued heat over a fire, but gentle, and not boiling. 6248. A decoction is the extraction by water of certain principles in vegetables, by subjecting them to boiling for some time. Many parts of vegetables are not soluble in water, as the resinous substances ; but others, as mucilage, are entirely soluble in that fluid. Decoctions, from the nature of their constituents, very soon ferment and spoil; consequently they should be prepared in small quantities only, as they are wanted, and never used, particularly in summer, forty-eight hours after they have been made. The well-known beverage, barley-water, is a decoction of barley. 6249. Coagulation is a thickening of a substance that has been fluid, as the formation of curd from milk when rennet is boiled with it. 62.50. An extract consists in dissolving by water, spirit, or any other menstruum, such parts of vegetables as are soluble, and afterwards inspissating this by heat. 62.') 1. A tincture is a solution of any coloured substance in spirit of wine ; when not coloured, the solution is called a .spirit. 6252. Precipilaiion is the reverse of solution. It is the falling down in a solid or powdery state something that had been dissolved, in consequence of the addition of some other body to the solution. Thus iron may be oxidised and dissolved by diluted sulphuric acid, and the solution will be transparent ; but if an alkali be added, the oxide of the iron will fall down, or be precipitated, in form of a greenish powder. 62.53. A sediment, on the contrary, is the falling down of a substance that had been mereli/ tnired with water or other fluid, but not dissolved, and all that is necessary to pro- duce it is rest for some time. Thus, water may be muddy, that is, contain various mat- ters in a state of mechanical suspension, not chemical solution ; but if that water be suf- fered to rest long enough, all these matters will subside to the bottom as a sediment,