806 Book XL GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. put into their hands : and to this we may add, that there is always a degree of humiliation felt by those who, after having been accustomed to consider themselves, and to be considered by others, as masters of their profession, are required to learn any thing new, or to do any thing in any other manner than that in which they have been always accustomed to do it, and in the performance of which they have acquired praise. It will not, however, be difficult to convince those of the profession who are possessed of a good understanding, and are above low and vulgar prejudices, that certain alterations proposed will meet with their approval when they become better acquainted with them." 4631. With respect to the various operations of cooking. Dr. Prout observes, that "they are preparatory to the solvent action of the stomach. Of these operations, man's nature has taught him to avail himself, and they constitute the chief means by which he is enabled to be omnivorous; for without such preparation, a very large portion of the matters which he now adopts as food, would be completely indigestibTe." The same eminent physician considers cooking as operating upon our food much in the same way as the digestive organs in the commencement of their operation: and he says further, that " in some individuals the powers of digestion are so weak, that the stomach is almost incapable of dissolving solid food of the most simple kind ; and that a crude diet of the flesh of animals in a hardened state ' from bad cooking,' is little else than poison." He adds, " the culinary art engages no small share of attention among mankind ; but, unfor- tunately, cooks are seldom chemists ; nor indeed do they understand the most simple of the chemical principles of their art. Hence their labour is most frequently employed, not in rendering wholesome articles of food digestible, which is the true object of cooking, but in making unwholesome things palatable." 46.32. As an illustration of the power of coohei-y, it may be observed that the alteration pro- duced in the qualities of substances by the application of heat is remarkable. The cassava root, when raw, is a fatal poison to man and beast, but prepared by fire it is not only innocent, but forms the common food of West Indians. The strong odour of the onion is destroyed by boiling. The root of the wake-robin has a juice that will blister the skin ; but when boiled it is as mild as the potato. Mushrooms have little taste when raw, but become very savoury when cooked. The raw potato is ill-flavoured, extremely indi- gestible, and could not be eaten as human food unless it was cooked; but by roasting or boiling it becomes farinaceous, sweet and agi'eable to the taste, wholesome, digestible, and highly nutritious. Coffee is disagreeably bitter in its raw state, and the fine aroma for which it is distinguished is entirely the result of the process of roasting. When, in the preparation of bread, considerable heat is applied to the dough, a complete change is pro- duced in its chemical properties : the raw substance differs entirely from the flour: it no longer makes a tenacious paste with water, nor can starch and gluten be any longer extracted from it. 4633. TTie application of considerable heat to raiv animal food by any of Uiese processes produces in it several chemical changes. Much water is evaporated, the muscular fibre is rendered opaque by the coagulation of the albumen, and it becomes likewise more tender; the gelatine, which is never liquid in the raw state, is rendered soluble ; the fat is partly liquefied, without being melted out of the cellular substance. 4634. By applying heat to vegetables the more volatile and watery parts are in some cases dissipated, "rhe different principles, according to their peculiar properties, are extracted, softened, dissolved, or coagulated ; but most commonly they are changed into new combinations, so as to be no longer distinguishable by the forms and chemical properties which they originally possessed. Raw vegetables contain much free acid, a great part of which counteracts the digestive functions : the heat of the cooking processes destroys this acid, partly by extraction, and partly by altering its nature : boiled vege- tables, therefore, contain little or no acid. By heat, sugar is often formed, as in the case of apples, and new and agreeable flavours are developed : the alimentary properties have been improved, the farinaceous matter is rendered soluble, and the vegetable fibre is softened. Numberless other instances might be mentioned of the influence of heat upon the nutritive properties of substances employed as food. 463.'5. The whole subject of food, and its preparation by pooAcry, is, as we have before more than once stated, so dependent upon the chemical liistory of the various substances employed, that it is impossible to study them advantageously without reference to that science ; and it is for that reason we have endeavoured to prepare the reader for our present section by some preceding ones. Cookery, indeed, may be considered, in some respects, as a branch of practical chemistry. On a general view, we may divide the various processes of the cook, as generally practised in England^ into roasting, baking, broi-ling, frying, boiling, and stewing.