263 BED-ROOM FURNITURE. llUAP. Xll. laiperors, were of the most surprising magnificence ; and we are informed by Pliny, uat they were frequently formed of ivory, adorned with plates of silver and gold, and -Dvered by the softest mats and counterpanes. The use of feathers for beds is not modern, irr Pliny informs us that they were in use among the Roman gentry, and at the inns beds i cre filled with the soft leaves of reeds. In the houses of the wealthy, and even in the royal chambers of England, beds stuffed with rraw or chaff were used so-late as the close of the 13th century ; the bed-furniture was of vvery costly description, and made of such durable materials as to last for many years ; a :vw have descended down even to the present tunes, and are preserved in old manor oouses. The hangings were sometimes of silk damask, or of velvet, and embroidered with i.bloured silk, or of rich stuffs. The testers were generally low, the necessity for plenty of ir.r not having been then understood: the valances were generally plain, but scollopped with aarious forms at their lower edges. Some were surmounted with feathers. The effect of we whole was heavy, but calculated to have an air of gloomy grandeur suited to the tunes, i'heir great expense prevented their frequent removal, and the nature of the materials oollected dust, and rendered it diSicult to clean them so often, or so eifectually, as might te desirable. Our modem light furniture is much preferable, and with care may last lafficiently. Among the eastern nations, beds are seldom raised from the ground. In the evening uattresses stuffed with cotton, of which they keep a considerable number in gi-eat houses, -fe brought into the room, and laid down on the floor: often they have no other beds than hae divan used in the day. The poorer people lie only on mats spread on the ground. 1185. German beds differ remarkably from our mode in England. They make the ppper part so high by means of many pillows placed underneath, that they rather sit than ice in bed; some do not use blankets, but instead of them, have a wadded counterpane vver the sheets; and in winter, a light feather bed, sometimes of down, is added as coiwre-pieds. This custom, though sometimes spoken of with ridicule, is said to be vxtreraely comfortable in very cold countries. 1186. In England and Scotland, during the feudal period of our history, the pro- irrietors of land lived in castles, which were not always accommodated with a number of "ooms; and when it was necessary for the greater number of the inhabitants to sleep together, in the great hall, straw was brought in for that purpose, and was swept vway next morning. From the following account given by Hollingshed, we may judge iff the mode of sleeping in England at a later period. " Our fathers, and we ourselves, laave lain full often upon straw pallettes, covered only with a sheet under coverlets made of I .ogswain or hoperlots (I use their own terms), and a good round log under their head anstead of a bolster. If it were so, that the father or the good-man of the house had a imattress or a flock bed, and thereto a sack of chaff to rest his head upon, he thought nimself to be as well lodged as the lord of the town. So well were they contented, "illows (said they) were thought meet only for women in child-bed. As for servants, if they aad any sheet above them, it was well: for seldom they had any under their bodies, to iieep them from the prickling straws, that ran oft through the canvass, and razed their uardened hides." 1187. General observations on beds. — In the present day, when the study of physiology, ir.nd the importance of pure air, and great cleanliness, are beginning to be understood, ■vvery thing relating to our places of repose during the night receives particular attention Vrom persons of intelligence ; and yet much of this knowledge, so important to our health, ss not suflBciently diffused. In treating on ventilation, we pointed out the necessity there »vas for breathing good and wholesome air; a necessity which exists in the strongest Uegree during the night, when we do not change our situation for many hours together. Kt can scarcely be necessary to repeat how pernicious to health are very small bed-rooms, -rom the vitiation of the air by constant breathing ; but the same reasons will apply to all lircumstances which prevent the change of the air round about us when in bed, and tivhich compel us to breathe over again a portion of that air which we have expired. Tfhis principle being kept in view, and thoroughly understood, it will be easy to com- jorehend in what manner this part of our domicile must be treated. In small bed-rooms tt is best to do without curtains, or at least to have them only partial, and not inclose the boed. When curtains are drawn close round a bed, it is in fact nearly equal to sleeping itn a small room. It has been for some time the fashion to raise beds high above the flfloor; but in low apartments it is particularly improper to do so, since this lessens the .listance from the ceiling, and keeps the person immersed in a bad atmosphere, since the 1 jxpired air rises to the top of the room. In low chambers, therefore, the beds should be uas near the floor as possible ; but where the apartments are lofty, there is no occasion for tithis, and keeping the bed at a moderate height has the convenience of admitting sweeping lundcr it. The comer of a room is a bad situation for a bed, as it cannot be got round without moving it. It should he placed, if possible, nearly at the middle of the side, but sfehould not ciuite touch the wall. S 4 .