209 :ap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. ^ifore it is bumed, is not at all caustic like lime, and is extremely useful, not only for mrkiug, but for scouring and cleaning various articles, and for many purposes in the |ss. p)77. Whiting is chalk entirely freed from the small quantity of sand which is some- fcaes in it, consequently it does not scratch any thing cleaned -with it,-as chalk may rbhaps do. In every other respect it is the same thing as chalk. The French Meudori iiite is the same ; but the substance called French chalk is very different: it is a greenish rsy stone, translucent, and of an unctuous feel, used to mark woollen cloth, and to take I; grease: it is not calcareous, but is a compact kind of talc, consisting of silica and lignesia. ;')78. Putti/ of tin is a powder which consists of the oxide of tin, much used in polishing L\ss and other hard substances, and quite different from glaziers' putty. ',079. Butch rushes, commonly used for polishing wood and ivory, are the stems of itnts, called by botanists Equisetum hyemale. This plant owes its polishing property to i ircumstance that would not be suspected, to the edges observed in its sides being wered with a series of little points of flint set on like the teeth of a saw. This may be iiide evident by burning a piece carefully, and holding up to the light what remains (consumed: the little silicious points will be found to be arranged spirally and syme- ically. 5)80. Wheaten and oaten straw reduced to ashes are also found, by the experience of our ■jd housewives, to be good polishers of their brass, mUk, and other vessels, without the j3se being at all suspected by them. It is a curious fact that this is owing to an actual mting of flint that covers the outside of the straw, like a varnish, and which gives its litre; and this flint coating is not destroyed, but remains after the combustion. iiSl. The process of scouring pans will be described under the article "Cleaning the itirtments." Soap will be treated of under the "Laundry." yiS2. Fuller's earth, a substance useful in removing greasy spots, was formerly con- fered as indispensable in the process of fulling or thickening of cloth, usually termed ling, and for scouring them and worsteds, and on that account the exportation of it was i'bidden ; but lately they have contrived means of effecting the same purposes by soap 11 other substances, and fuller's earth is less used. It is, however, a material employed in iiinestic economy, for removing spots of oil from boarded floors, and cleansing greasy ves- s 5 of various kinds, &c. Although usually spoken of as being of a saponaceous quality, it ■ 1 none of the ingredients of soap in its composition, consisting almost entirely of alumina Sfine clay, and silicious earth ; the latter in the largest proportion. Every clay that has BQe unctuosity, that is, which will receive a polish when the nail is rubbed on it, will, ssome degree, answer for fulling ; but not so well as proper fuller's earth, which is dis- cguished from common clay by its falling to pieces in water with a slight crackling -se, instead of making a paste with it, as clay does. When good, it is of a dull greenish •ly colour, and the best is dug in Buckinghamshire and Surrey. The detersive or ab- bbing power of fuller's earth, consisting chiefly in the alumina, this ingredient ought to !im one fifth of the whole ; but not more than one fourth, lest it should be too tenacious. '•)83. Sponge is a marine production, now classed as belonging to the animal kingdom, haough this was for a long time doubted. It is composed of minute, elastic fibres, in- '.Jaced together, somewhat like a felt. From its property of readily imbibing water, il parting with it as readily when squeezed, it is particularly useful, and is well known aan instrument for cleaning. It is brought from the Mediterranean and other seas, in ;ich it grows at the bottom, and is dived for. When it first comes over, it has often a •aat deal of sand in it, which must be carefully cleaned out. The best is extremely soft il fine to the touch, and sells for considerably more than the common kind. If care- ivy used, sponges are very durable. 't84. Black-lead is a well-known substance, much employed for giving a black shining iface to cast-iron grates, fenders, and other articles of furniture of this kind. Notwith- jQding its name, it has no connection with the metal lead, nor is there any lead in its aiposition. It is, indeed, a mineral substance dug out of the earth in many countries, luumps, which are reduced to powder when sold for the use of the chambermaid. It Insists essentially of carbon with a little iron, and the finest varieties are employed for kking the black-lead pencils for drawing ; the best of the latter kind is dug at Borrow- in Cumberland ; but the common black-lead is found in many other places ; a good 11 comes from Germany and Spain. There are several qualities of it: the best is the lapest in the end: some is much adulterated. The goodness is known by observing 1 brightness of the polish it will give with the least trouble ; for though nuiny things yy increase the apparent quantity, there is no known addition but what must impair • i quality. '"S.O. Sulphur, called also brimstone, is an extremely inflammable substance, dug out of ti earth in various countries, and considered as a volcanic production : or it is procured m mineral substances, of which it is a constituent. The most usual employment of