1208 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH, Book XXVI. hurtful by irritating the lining membrane of the bowels; the diet, therefore should always be most carefully attended to, even if the fit should have proceeded from some other cause. Before the accession of small-pox, and sometimes measles, one fit or more Jill occur, and so far is this from being dangerous, that popular opinion regards it as tavourable, and as indicating a mild attack, and certainly there is no reason for thinkins that It foretells any particular severity of disease. In these cases the feet may be bathed , - may be bathed in warm water, and a warm water injection may be given. In mentioning this, we may take this opportunity of recommending the warm water injection as a most useful assistant in securing a due regulation of the bowels in children. We conclude this short account of convulsions by recommending in all cases the free use of mild aperients, particularly of castor oil, in doses proportioned to the age of the child. 7154. Croup (inflammatory). — Were medical aid sooner sought for in cases of croup, the mortality from this formidable disease would, no doubt, be very much lessened; but,' unfortunately, few parents or nurses are sufficiently acquainted with those slight yet'often distinctive symptoms which mark its early stage. At first the symptoms are those simply of a common cold; and at this time the dangerous sequence cannot always be perceived : but very often, in addition to the quickened breathing, there is an unusual resonance in the cough — something like a little metallic sound or barking; and, when the child draws in its breath, there is a roughness in its sound, heard distinctly by the nurse when she places her ear close to the mouth of the child. Even in this stage the windpipe is often painful; the child raises its hand to its neck, as if to invite attention to the seat of its uneasiness. If proper measures could be taken in this stage, most children would doubtless recover ; but if the parents wait till the breathing becomes much hastened and hoarse, and the cough hard and brazen, and till fever has set in, then the disease is much less easily subdued. It is much better to be deceived half a dozen times than once to overlook a case of croup; and we earnestly recommend all parents, immediately they perceive a roughened breathing and a resonant cough, and particularly if there have pre- viously been symptoms of a cold, to lose no time in sending for medical advice. One of the best remedies in the early stages is an emetic; and this may be given without waiting for the physician: for a child of a year old, two grains of ipecacuanha is a proper dose ; for two years old, four or five grains ; for three years old, six grains ; for four j-ears old, seven grains; for five, six, and seven years old, eight or nine grains. An aperient may also be given, and the child should be placed in the warm bath. The other treatment must be left to the medical attendant. Croup is more common on the eastern than on the western coast of England: it prevails most in damp situations, and in those exposed to the keen east or north-east winds. It is rai'ely met with before one or after eight years of age. Before leaving this subject, we shall notice one circumstance in the history of croup, which is calculated to excite fallacious hopes, and to lessen the assiduity with which remedial measures are employed—we allude to an apparent alleviation or remission of the disease which often takes place : for example, in the evening the child may be very feverish ; the voice extremely hoarse ; the cough violent, and loudly ringing ; the neck swelled and puffy ; the eyes watery ; the head thrown back; in fact, all the symptoms of severe croup present: these things last through the nf^ht, but in the morning a great improvement may seem to have commenced ; the fever has subsided, and the restlessness and anxiety have disappeared; the cough is lessened, and the breathing, though still roughened, is easier and more tranquil. But this improvement is temporary; with the evening all the severe symptoms return with augmented violence, and if the necessary measures have been omitted, much time is lost, which, in so rapid a disease, can never be regained. After an attack of croup, much care must be taken in avoiding cold winds and damp places ; change of air is often beneficial; from time to time there may be a little recurrence of the cough and hoarse breathing, but these symptoms seldom continue and need not generally excite alarm. 71.'55. Lijlammation nfthe brain (Jiydrocephahts acutiis of medical writers). The observa- tions made on the early recognition of croup are applicable also in this place. This disease, perhaps the most formidable and dangerous of all the diseases incidental to early life, and in its developed stage intractable in the highest degree, presents a short period only in which remedial measures can be used with any great chance of success. Fifty years ago recovery was rare; in the present day perhaps half of those attacked recover. This alteration is to be attributed, in part, to a more correct knowledge of the nature of the disease, and in no inconsiderable degree to the minute attention now paid to its early symptoms. Inflammation of the brain in children is generally seen between the second and tenth year : it is said to be most ft-equcnt in those distinguished for premature developement of the intellect; certain constitutions seem to be more liable than others to its attack, for sometimes it affects every member of a particular family. In cases in which two or three children of one fomily have suffered from it, every, the slightest, symptom must be noticed, and the signs which wc shall presently enumerate carefully