1190 Book XXVI. PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. seeking into the causes which have disturbed it. But if rocking cannot be eflFected but in her arms or on her knees, it will be for her own comfort as well as for the good of the infant, to ascertain, previous to any attempt to make it sleep again, whether its wakeful- ness arise from hunger or pain, from weariness of one posture, or from restlessness occasioned by too mucli heat of the room or weight of bed clothing, or tlie reverse, for children cannot sleep well when either too hot or too cold. To remedy any of these in- conveniences to the infant will be in the end less troublesome to the nurse than to hush in her arms the roused infant; but the case may be otherwise, and often has been, when the rocking-cot has been at hand; the poor child has been then less considered than it ought to have been, and for such reasons the swinging-cot as well as the cradle of old has almost fallen into merited disuse. Excess of rocking or swinging is on another gi-ound objected to; it is supposed to induce in infants water on the brain; whether this supposition is well founded or not, the other objection previously observed will be sufficient to keep in disuse all rockiug-cots and cradles. 7045. 77ie bedding of cribs should be soft and warm, and the covering as light as it can be consistent with the requisite wai-mth during cold seasons. After the first year a horse- hair or good flock mattress is better for children than feather beds, unless in cases of delicate thin children, whose feeble circulation seems to stand in need of more indulgence in warmth than the more robust. But soft feather beds, with high bolsters or pillows, are supposed to admit of children lying in positions unfavourable to the spine, the feathers being too yielding: a mattress, on the contrary, does not give way to any curved position of the child. In mentioning this evil of feather beds, it is proper to remark that curvature of the spine is less the result of position than is usually imagined; and even admitting that feather beds favour it, they do so rather by contributing to a general diseased system than by any facility which they afford to what might be regarded improper positions. The bodies of young animals, left to themselves, never can suffer from such a cause. The superiority, however, of mattresses over feather beds for children is undoubted. In all cases, in hot weather, mattresses must be preferable for children's use to feather beds: in winter only may the latter be more desirable, as befoi-e observed, for feeble infants. 70-16. Bhmkels for children should be light, soft, and woolly ; of such are those which go under the name of Witney blankets. Those of Lancashire manufacture are heavy and close in fabric. 7047. Sheeting for children should be of soft linen or fine calico. The latter is now more frequently used than linen ; it is less expensive in the purchase, but is not equally economic in regard to its durability. This can be of less moment in children's sheeting than in that for the family use. 7048. Counterpanes can scarcely be too light in texture. They should never be used for warmth, but merely as a protection of the blankets from dust and dirt during the day. When waraith is to be added to bed clothing, it should be by means of additional blankets. The weight of counterpanes is an objection to them in all cases, and particularly for children, whose breathing should not be oppressed by any external covering either by night or by day. 7049. Hangings and vallances to children's beds are not needful, if cribs are so placed as to be away from streams of air either from windows or doors. There should always be free circulation of air around the beds of sleeping children; and, so far from having vallances to the bedsteads, their cribs should stand on legs about a foot and a half above the floor, that the lower currents of air may pass under, and prevent any stagnation of air beneath the beds. Sect. III. DIET AND REGISIEN. SuBSECT. 1. — Food allowed during Infancy and Childhood. 7050. The food of children, in regard to its kind and quantity, must now come under consideration • and it is a subject of the greatest importance; for although, in subsequent periods of life health may continue unimpaired under deviations from the strictly whole- some diet,—may be preserved in one case under too good living, in another by equal abstinence,—may with impunity undergo any irregularity in regard to food, which plea- sure, convenience, or necessity may cause,—yet in early iuflmcy and during childhood such deviations and irregularities would lie often fatal to life, and generally arc mjurious to tlie vigour of the digestive organs The younger the child, the more urgent it is to take care that it has, at stated times, the food " convenient for it," but no more. To err in this respect, in the infant's case, is to run the greatest of risks in its rearing: r.nd in regard to children of older growth, if not equally hazardous, it is often the cause to them of great suffering and of retarded growth. 7051. Wet nnrsini/. The infant's food — that which nature provides for it imniedintoly on its entrance into' existence—-must come iiist under consideration. When a mother