772 ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. part comliines with the carbon, producing carburetted hydrogen gas; and the remainder unites with some phosphorus and sulphur which animal bodies contain, thus giving rise respectively to phosphuretted and sulphuretted hydrogen gases, which are in part the cause of the nauseous smell evolved by substances that putrefy, although this does not entirely account for the remarkable fetor which is diffused, an effect which is not perfectly understood. 4411. We observed that vegetable matter under favourable circumstances can go through a series of changes before they arrive at the putrefactive state ; nevertheless, there are some cases where vegetables decompose without experiencing all these. Sometimes they pass into the acetous state without perceptibly going into the vinous ; and sometimes the putrefactive alone takes place, as in the case of mushrooms. Vegetables which contain no nitrogen, particularly the ligneous parts, decompose much more slowly than animal matter. The juices which plants contain first enter into the acetous fermentation, and the acid thus generated destroys the cohesion of the ligneous fibre, and reduces the whole to a pulpy state ; but there is very little of that smell so remarkable in animal putrefaction, because the whole of the elementary principles necessary to form the offensive gases seldom exist in vegetables. When vegetables putrefy, their oxygen and part of their hydro- gen unite and form water, while another part of their hydrogen combines with carbon, and forms carburetted hydrogen; but the chief part of the carbon remains in one of the simplest forms of this element, and gives the black colour so prevalent in a rich soil produced chiefly by the decay of plants that have grown there. 4412. In dead animal bodies, it is the albumen that first begins the putridity, and serves as a ferment to the rest; and those plants which contain much vegetable albumen are most apt to become putrid, as mushrooms, cabbages, &c. 4413. The production of ammonia has been generally supposed to distinguish the putrefaction of animal from that of vegetable bodies, but although this is generally the case, there are exceptions. Such vegetables as contain nitrogen, as the gluten of wheat, also generate ammonia abundantly. 4414. In tlie putrefactive fermentation certain conditions are necessary, as is the case in the vinous and acetous, viz. 1. a certain degree of heat; 2. a certain degree of moisture. If we deprive animal and vegetable substances of either of these conditions, no change can take place. 3. The access of air, likewise, though not absolutely necessary, remarkably accelerates it. It is upon these principles that some of the methods of preserving food are founded. The process of putrefaction agrees also with the other stages of fermentation in this respect, that a small quantity of animal substance in this state will inoculate others with which it is in contact, and occasion them also to putrefy; even their effluvia will sometimes have this effect. 4415. We shall divide this subject into two parts. The first will relate to those precau- tions which are necessary to preserve meat and vegetables for a short time in a perfectly fresh state previous to their being subjected to the culinary art; and the second will describe the modes of preserving from decay the various species of food which are required to be kept as store for a considerable length of time. But as the difference in the nature of animal and vegetable food demands different modes of treatment, we shall consider each of these classes separately. CHAP. n. PRECAUTIONS TO BE USED IN KEEPING ANIMAL FOOD FOR A SHORT TIME PREVIOUSLY TO ITS BEING COOKED. 4416. In consequence of the changes to which we have alluded, it might be supposed desirable that all animal substances used as food should be dressed as soon as life has been destroyed. This, however, is true only of some kinds. The flesh of some animals which have been just killed is at first tough and diflicult to digest,—a fact well known to all butchers and cooks, who are not ignorant that the keeping of it for a long or short time, according to circumstances, previously to its being dressed, renders it more tender, palatable, and easy of digestion. Our object is to point out the principle upon which this depends. The fleshy fibre, or muscular part of livmg anmials, is endued with a property called irritability, and this does not cease the instant that life becomes extinct, but continues for a short time after death. The hearts of many animals continue to beat after being separ- ated from the body, and a muscle cut from a living creature trembles and palpitates for some short time afterwards. The bodies of animals that are slaughtered cool gradually, and when they arc quite cold, and irritability has ceased, the muscles begin to contract and