CONDITION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 323 Chap. I. Y 2 BOOK VI. ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS, AND THEIE. DUTIES. CHAP. L CONDITION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS, AND THE OBLIGATION OF THEIR SERVICE ; THEIR QUALITIES, ETC. CONSIDERED. Sect. I. CONDITION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 1432. Domestic servants are a class m society no less essential to its welfare and con- venience, tlian the equivalent in subsistence and money, which for service done that class receives, is essential to the well-being of each individual belonging to it. 1433. In no era of time, nor in any state of social life, has man been able to dispense ipith the aid of his fellow-creatures without losing ground in his progress towards civilisa- lion. Mutual assistance, co-operation amongst men, is the impetus to social improvement —the promoter of social convenience. So great has the necessity for it ever been, that in nountries and in periods in which this could not be the effect of mutual compact, the rtronger members of communities imposed it by force on the weaker ; and hence the origin and wrongs of slavery. 1434. Very different'from slavery is the condition of domestic servants at the present iiime, in most parts of the civilised world. It is respectable and creditable. It has its iights, its privileges, which give it a character of independence, notwithstanding the term ■ service" attached to it. Public laws protect this class of the British community from npjury and oppression, and the prevalent domestic regulations and habits all tend to secure 00 it every requisite comfort, and, even more, much enjoyment. Independence, like hap- ibiness, is always comparative. There is no class of society but has its power "to will and '10 do," restricted variously, and in different degrees. Each class and each individual ''X)mposing it is under subordination of some kind or other ; and each acquiesces in its k-ecessity, on perceiving it to be based on principles of general utility and security. When luubordination is so based, society must be both generally and individually benefited. IWithout it what would be the state either of public or private life ? The struggles and oontentions of ungoverned passions, the clashings of different interests, the wilfulness of bae powerful, would assail and overcome all the quiet and peaceful influences of domestic I'fe, and be in perpetual opposition to the order and justice by which society is held ijgether. 1435. Hardships, and the loss of independence, can scarcely be considered as charac- rnrising, in this country at least, the state of domestic service. If deficient in personal veedom, it is exempt from great anxieties and responsibilities ; and in admitting of change com one service to another, it fetters no individual to the permanent endurance of trials peculiar to any one situation. It compels no one to an undue devotion of his strength, rar to engage in any excess of duty beyond that which, on entering a service, he volun- mly, and for a stated compensation, engages to perform. It does, indeed, require from iim a diligent and a faithful attention to the duties which he has undertaken ; a strict ^gard to personal decorum, and to the moral obligations of temperance and honesty, rrials of patience and temper he may experience ; but not in a greater degree, probably, aan his superiors may have, in their sphere, to encounter. 11436. The principal of a family has a right to prescribe certain regulations, by which >s servants are to govern themselves. There can be in different families no complete liiiformity in these domestic regulations, while there is neither uniformity nor equality in ee circumstances and characters of those who form social communities : in every household, nme variations of habit and custom must be expected ; and servants, entering new situations, il 11 be disappointed if they expect to meet in each a counterpart of those which tliey had ftft They must conform to each variety, or submit to the penalty of frequent dismissal, hiere can be no proper notion of domestic subordination, when a servant permits himself reproach his employer, and which is not unfrequently the case, with some such 1 rpression as this : "I have never been used to that," or, "that work did not belong to 11; in my last place." Neither has he any right to object should his master prescribe the