:hap. v. BIRDS. 405 iiUrtand feathers, from which they arc cleared before they are ofTcrod for sale. It is said that Batavia alone •jxports annually 1,000,000 of these nests to supply the tables of the Chinese mandarins. The substance trhich the bird collects to compose these edible nests does not appeal to be yet clearly ascertained. Dr. Mayen, II his voyage round the world, states, that the swallow cats a species of marine fucus (Sparococcns carta- ^Agineus, var. cetaceus), which grows in great abundance in the Indian seas : and after permitting it to often for some time in its gullet, it disgorges the substance, now converted Into a kind of jelly, and uses ;: as a cement for its nest: and it has been said that the Japanese, who have long ago discovered this fact, ■repare the substance itself in an artist-like manner. The vegetable origin of the substance in question has ; owever lately been opposed in the " Journal do Pharmacie," August, 1836, by M.Virej', who manitains with vtumphius, that the swallow collects from the surface of the sea the gelatinous material of some species of c.iarine moUusca; from which it would appear that the edible nests consist of animal substances. Sect. XXVIH. wheat-eah. 2092. This is a delicate little bird of passage about the size of a lark, but difficult to be irrocured at the poulterers' in London, unless ordered. They visit us, and are in season n-om July to October; they are obtained chiefly on the South downs in the neighbourhood i f Brighton, Eastbourn, and other parts of Sussex, and may be had at Tunbridge Wells. I They are caught in nets and snares like larks, and are occasionally captured in immense luumbers. They are usually sold at a high price ; the larger are sent to London, and Kxjtted, when they are by many as much esteemed as the ortolan of the Continent; but rcom their fatness they will not keep long without spoiling, and can be had in perfection Eoly in the districts where they are caught. Sect. XXIX. LANDRAIL, OR CORNCRAKE. 2093. The landrail is known by its peculiar voice, like the sound of a watchman's ibttle; and it trusts more to its swift foot among the corn or long grass than to its wings, rbhich it rarely uses. It is seldom caught; but when in good condition, it is reckoned a iTst-rate delicacy. When fully grown, they weigh about half a pound. Sect. XXX. ORTOLAN. 2094. This small singing bird is considered one of the greatest luxuries of the table, t. is migratory, but is never found wild in Britain, though common in France, Italy, and itie warmer parts of Europe ; consequently in this country it is rarely procurable, and in 5 5 cost may rank with the turtle among the list of expensive delicacies. They are some- iimes bred in cages, and are kept in a dark room, where they can have no employment uat eating; in consequence they get inordinately fat, and would die of this disease, if the iinife did not interpose when they have arrived at the desired point of obesity. When veil fed, they weigh about three ounces each, and are roasted with the intestines in them, 'they are sometimes imported, potted, from the south of France and Italy. Sect. XXXI. VARIOUS BIRDS SELDOM EATEN. S2095. In Britain the interest caused by his familiar reliance upon the generosity of man has protected the *im redbreast from the epicure; but the "rouge-gorge a-la-reine'" is,in the season, enumerated among the liticles to be had at the Parisian restaurateurs. 1 his bird, however, in France grows to a large size, and is fnry bold, and even pugnacious. It is reckoned a very great delicacy. ;2096. The rook is eaten when young. Rook pie is well known, and somewhat resembles pigeon. When Id, the bird is not eatable. -'2097. The jay is thought by some superior to the rook. !2098. The crow is scarcely eaten in any part of the world, its flesh being tough and disagreeable, since it rces so much upon carrion. ;2099. The cuckoo is not eaten in England, but on the Continent is not uncommon as a dish'; and the Arabs Haider it as a great delicacy. I). The thrush is not brought to table in England, although it makes a favourite dish in France and lany. Vast quantities are caught for the table in Candia. 1. The parrot, while young, is delicate, and is generally eaten in Brazil. a. The nightingale has not been prohibited by his music from contributing to the luxuries of the gour- 1, but cannot be reckoned in the list of our dainties. We read, however, of them, as being on the 1. 5 of the ancient Roman epicures, ■.ilii.l. The fieldfare is a small bird sometimes taken in nets with the lark .ind thrush: it is excellent. '2104. The ostrich is the largest of all birds, ,-ind affords an abundant banquet to many savage nations of iifrica, where they arc sometimes kept in a tame state for breeding. Dd 3