Chap. I. MARKETING. 861 the hind quarter, if not recently killed, the fat of the kidney will have a slight smell, and the knuckle will have lost its firmness. 4841. Pork. — When good, the rind is thin, smooth, and cool to the touch; when changing, from being too long killed, it becomes flaccid and clammy. Enlarged glands, called kernels, In the fat, are marks of an ill-fed or diseased pig. 4842. Bacon should have a thin rind, and the fat should be firm and tinged red by the curing ; the flesh should be of a clear red, without intermixture of yellow, and it should firmly adhere to the bone. To judge of the state of a ham, plunge a knife into it to the bone ; on drawing it back, if particles of meat adhere to it, or jf the smell is disagree- able, the curing has not been effectual, and the ham is not good; it should, in such a state, be immediately cooked. In buying a ham, a short thick one is to be preferred to one long and thin. Of English hams, Yorkshire, Westmoreland, and Hampshire are most esteemed ; of foreign, the Westphalia. 4843. Venison. —When good, the fat is clear, bright, and of considerable thickness. To know when it is necessary to cook it, a knife must be plunged into the haunch ; and from the smell the cook must determine on dressing or keeping it. 4844. In choosing poultry, the age of the bird is the chief point to be attended to. 4845. An old turkey has rough and reddish legs; a young one smooth and black. Fresh killed, the eyes are full and clear, and the feet moist. When it has been kept too long, the parts about the vent begin to wear a greenish discoloured appearance. 4846. Comvion domestic fowls, when young, have the legs and combs smooth ; when old, they are rough, and on the breast long hairs are found instead of feathers. Fowls and chickens should be plump on the breast, fat on the back, and white-legged. 4847. Geese The bills and feet are red when old, yellow when young. Fresh killed, the feet are pliable, stiff when too long kept. Geese are called green while they are only two or three months old. 4848. Ducks. — Choose them with supple feet, and hard plump breasts. Tame ducks have yellow feet, wild ones red. 4849. Pigeons are very indifierent food when they are too long kept. Suppleness of the feet show them to be young; the state of the flesh is flaccid when they are getting bad from keeping. Tame pigeons are larger than the wild. 4850. Hares and rabbits, when old, have the haunches thick, the ears dry and tough, and the claws blunt and rugged. A young hare has claws smooth and sharp, ears that easily tear, and a narrow cleft in the lip. A leveret is distinguished from a hare by a knob or small bone near the foot. 4851. Partridges, -when young, have yellow legs and dark-coloured bills. Old par- tridges are very indifferent eating. 4852. Woodcocks and snipes, when old, have the feet thick and hard ; when these are soft and tender, they are both young and fresh killed. When their bills become moist and their throats muddy, they have been too long kUled. ' 4853. Turbot, and all flat white fish, are rigid and firm when fresh ; the under side should be of a rich cream colour. When out of season, or too long kept, this becomes a bluish white, and the flesh soft and flaccid. A clear bright eye in fish is also a mark of being fresh and good. 48.54. Cod is known to be fresh by the rigidity of the muscles (or flesh), the redness of the gills, and clearness of the eyes. Crimping much improves this fish. 4855. Salmon. — The flavour and excellence of this fish depends upon its freshness and the shortness of the time since it was caught; for no method can completely preserve the delicate flavour it has when just taken out of the water. A great deal of what is brought to London has been packed in ice, and comes from the Scotch and Irish rivers, and, though quite fresh, is not quite equal to Thames salmon. For many particulars respect- ing this excellent fish, see Book VII. Sect. III. 4856. Mackerel must be perfectly fresh, or it is a very indifferent fish ; it will neither bear carriage, nor being kept many hours out of the water. The firmness of the flesh, and the clearness of the eyes, must be the criterion of fresh mackerel, as they are of all other fish. 4857. Herrings can only be eaten when very fresh, and, like mackerel, will not remain good many hours after they are caught. 4858. Fresh-water fish.— The remaxks as to firmness and clear fresh eyes apply to this variety of fish, of which there are carp, tench, pike, perch, eels, &c. See Book VII. Sect. III. 4859. Lobsters, recently caught, have always some remains of muscular action in the claws, which may be excited by pressing the eyes with the finger ; when this cannot be produced, the lobster must have been too long kept. When boiled, the tail preserves its elasticity if fresh, but loses it as soon as it becomes stale. The heaviest lobsters are the best; when light, they are watery and poor.