ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 52 Book I. coat absorbs a good deal of colour ; but it is important for the durability of the paint and the preservation of the wood, that the priming be executed carefully. 203. The second coal, of paint is put on when this is dry, consisting of white lead and oil having an addition of a little oil of turpentine. ' 204. Stopping is the next process ; but previously, the work should be smoothed over with pumice stone, to take down any little prominences or minute chips that become apparent when the paint comes on. Stopping is filling all the nail holes, cracks and irregularities of any kind, so as to make the surface close and regular. This is done by a putty made of oil and whiting. 205. The third coa<, which, in common work, is the last, consists of the same materials if the colour is to be white ; but as a perfect white is not always agreeable, nor likely to be durable, it is generally lowered, either by a little ivory or lamp black if a silvery white be wished, or a little yellow ochre and burnt umber, or some such colours, if a stone colour be required. This finishing coat should be laid on with peculiar care and in a work- manlike manner, not to show streaks or marks of the brush, nor leaving some places uncovered, while others are clogged with paint. In new work of the best kind, it is usual to give four coats of paint, particularly in outside work ; but in this latter, the use of tur- pentine is to be avoided, as rendering the paint more easily affected by water. K any other tint than white be intended, the second and third coats have the proposed colour made up, which demands good judgment, and a practised eye in the person who mixes up the colour. 206. Oil colour executed in the manner just described will have a gloss when finished and dry, resembling an imperfect varnish, which is no inconvenience, but rather an ad- vantage, in ordinary places, as this kind of painting will bear to be cleaned with soap and water, without disturbing the paint; but in the best apartments this gloss has an unplea- sant effect, and therefore it is destroyed by mixing a considerable quantity of oil of turpen- tine in the last or finishing coat, which occasions the paint to dry without gloss, or be a dead white, or " flat," as it is called. This part of the process is accordingly termed flatting. 207. The Jlattitig is more difficult to do than any other coat, and requires a more dex- terous workman; for the turpentine evaporates so quickly that the work dries in a very short time, and the whole side of a room must be executed very quickly not to show marks of joining. More hands are therefore required if the work be large, or greater execution and despatch if small. From the quantity of vapour from the turpentine, this part of the process is often both troublesome and unhealthy to the men employed. Flatted painting, though more elegant and ornamental, does not admit of being cleaned or scoured so often as common paint, since the quantity of oil in the paint being small, the colour easily comes off: it will bear cleaning once, and perhaps, with care, twice or thrice ; but common paint may be cleaned repeatedly, if done with judgment. Flatting is also much more expensive. Large surfaces sometimes require to be flatted twice, to render them complete. It is scarcely necessary to observe that each coat must be suffered to dry before another is laid on : but it may be too dry ; and there is a point of time, which the painter knows, that is best suited to make the several coats adhere together firmly, and prevent scaling off. It must be observed, that in all the above operations it is necessary to add some sort of dryer. A certain proportion of boiled oil is added to the raw, and sometimes a little sugar of lead ground in oil. 208. Painting in oil on inside stucco demands some further precautions. It is absolutely necessary that not only the surface of the stucco should be quite dry, but likewise the walls upon which it is laid ; otherwise, if there be the least dampness in the stucco, it is sure to cause the paint to scale off; and if the walls themselves be not dry before the stucco is put on, this also will frequently separate and come off in flakes. In general, in new houses, two or three years are not too long for the stucco to remain unpainted, though in houses got up on speculation, it is not unfrequent to allow scarcely as many months. It is said to be best to lay on first a coat of linseed oil with proper dryers, that the stucco may absorb a sufficient quantity, and to follow this by three coats of oil paint, made up as before, allowing two or three days between each coat: at the third coat the ground colour may be laid on to receive the finishing colour, which is usually flatted. If it be ne- cessary to make use of apartments before they are sufiiciently dry to receive the oil colour properly, they may have a coat or two of distemper of any colour, which must be removed by washing, when the walls are to be painted in oil. 209. The process of sanding is frequently used to outside paint. This is dusting white sand on the last coat "of paint to imitate stone ; and, when done well, this has an excellent effect, and is durable. . ... 210. The most usual colours or pigments employed in house pamtmg, to uiix with the white lead, are the following: — lieds. Vermilion, a bright scarlet prepared from sulphur and quicksilver, being a sulphuret of mercury. lied lead is lead calcined till it becomes a red oxide. Venetian red is a native