730 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. poisonous flowers grew there. Dr. Barton mentions a poisonous honey in Pennsylvania and Humboldt met with one on tlie Oronoeo. o^ivauia, 4164. It has been observed indeed, that, with respect to the wholesomeness of honeii many persons can eat one kmd with impunity, but not another. j j j _ The different species of heath which cover large tracts of hilly country in our own island, and overspread the sandy wastes of Brandenburgh, Pomerania, and, generally of the north of Germany, afford a considerable quantity of reddish-brown honey, of a strong odour and flavour, and very liable to disagree with those who are unaccustomed to it. In the market it bears the lowest price, and little or no demand exists for it in London. It is, probably, the same as the heath honey (Ericaeum mel) of the Romans, which, according to Pliny, is the worst of all. 4165. Honey is a species of sugar consisting of two varieties ; one part of it is always liquid like syrup, and cannot be rendered solid or crystallised ; the other may be separated, granulated or crystallised, and made into a solid sugar. These two substances are always mixed together in honey, but in variable proportions, and the quality of the honey depends much upon the quantities of each of the two sorts of sugar. The best honey is that which contains the largest proportion of the crystallisable sugar. Bo.th are soluble in water, but the syrupy part only is dissolvable by cold alcohol, which leaves the other untouched. To separate them, mix the honey with alcohol, and after it has had time to dissolve, put the whole into a linen bag, and press the liquid part through ; a granular mass will remain behind; to crystallise this, it must be boiled in alcohol, which will dissolve it, and then by slow evaporation it will crystallise into sugar. By evaporating the other solution in alcohol the syrup may be obtained in a concentrated state. Besides these two kinds of sugar, honey contains also a free acid matter not yet well understood, mucilage, and some- times a little wax, together with colouring and odoriferous matter. 4166. New honey appears an uniform transparent syrup, varying considerably in colour from nearly white to a yellowish brown, intensely sweet to the taste, but having always more or less of a peculiar flavour, and an aromatic odour ; and besides its sweetness it has a sharp acidulous taste ; by keeping, the colour becomes deeper, and it acquires more sharpness. It is laxative, and, when indulged in freely as food, it is liable to induce colic in some habits. After a few weeks, it generally grows thick, from the formation of small soft crystalline grains, which remain mixed with the fluid parts. The same effect is pro- duced by a cold temperature. The lighter coloured honeys are the most liable to granulate. 4167. In tahing the honey from the hives, a slice is cut off from the surface of the comb, so as to unseal the cells ; after which it is laid on a sieve to allow the honey to drain out. The honey obtained in this manner is the purest and best flavoured; but sometimes a little warmth is employed, which injures the flavour. Generally, pressure is employed, to save time ; by this, a greater quantity of honey is obtained, but as it is then mingled with some wax, and fouled by the juice of those bee-maggots which happened to be in the comb, and which are crushed by this process, the taste of the honey is deteriorated. Virgin honey is what is first made in a clean new hive by bees that have never swarmed. The honey made in the spring is preferred to that of the autumn. 4168. To prevent the practice of destroying the bees, to obtain their honey, several plans have been tried: that lately put in practice by Mr. Nutt appears to be quite successful. By the method which he employs, he procured 296 lbs. of honey from one stock of bees, the usual product being from 100 to 190 lbs. 4169. Honey was much in request before the discovery of sugar; at present it is little in demand, except for the purposes of medicine ; the finer kinds, however, as articles of luxury, still bear a high price ; that of Narbonne and Minorca are most in estimation. 4170. Honey is sometimes blanched. Dr. Bright, in his " Travels in Hungary," informs us, that the Jews bleach common honey to such a degree of whiteness as to sell it for Kowno honey, which is very fine, and exclusively made from lime-tree blossoms. They do this by exposing it to the frost for three weeks, sheltered from the snow; the honey does not freeze, but acquires transparency and hardness. Both honey and wax may be bleached by steam, or by exposing them to a humid atmosphere ; in frosty weather the operation is rapid. 4171. Honey is clarified by melting the best kind with water over a water-bath, adding the white of egg, and boiling it to throw up the scum ; when the scum is removed, the water must be evaporated, and the honey brought to its former consistence. 4172. Honey enters into the vinous fermentation without the addition of yeast, and yields the liquor called mead, of which formerly vast quantities were made before so much land had been brought into cultivation for grain. See " Mead," Book VIII. Chap. V. Sect III. The noted Italian liqueur rosoglio, which is also made at Dantzic, is prepared from a spirituous liquor and honey blanched by the Jews in the manner mentioned above. 4173. A substance much resembling honey may be made by boiling the must of grapes to a syrup, and the sugar of honey resembles that of grapes more than that from the sugar- cane.