'.mAP. IV. ARRANGEMENT OF THE VARIOUS APARTMENTS. 17 iqually desirable in a villa; on the contrary, the picturesque, as well as utility and con- venience, demand more variety. Perfect regularity,—that is, one half of the front corre- fnionding to the other half, as in Jigs. 18. & 19.,—appeared to our architects of fifty or sixty raaxs ago indispensable in every considerable mansion, and any deficiency in such jTmmetry -was looked upon as an egregious error in a design ; yet that this is not iccturesque is demonstrated by such foi-mality being shunned by all painters. Nothing 11 more enibarrassing to the architect than the necessity of preserving this perfect uni- jprmity in the principal fronts, at the same time with the most useful and convenient isstribution of the interior : many plans, that might otherwise have been made excellent, aave been cramped and injured, by endeavouring to attain the qualities of perfect regu- irrity with that of great convenience. It would seem to have been forgotten, that the n'incipal use of a house is to live in with comfort: and that, consequently, the interior hiould be planned first; the elevation, or exterior, arising out of it as circumstances admit, 'this practice, if followed, would introduce many improvements into our domestic dis- ■i'ibutions,—would free the architect from his present trammels, and would lead naturally ) that picturesque irregularity which is so beautiful in the hands of a tasteful designer, "the formal symmetrical manner, so much esteemed some years ago in every architectural esign, does not appear to have been considered so desirable by our ancestors ; for in cQcient works we often see a departure from it not easily accounted for, except by sup- nosing some view to the picturesque. It must be observed, however, that when mere reduction of cost is considered, or how much space can be inclosed by a certain quantity f ■ walling, that the perfectly symmetrical form has the advantage : indeed, it is easy to eemonstrate that a cube will inclose more space than any other figure with plane surfaceg, wen more than one the plan of which is a rectangle; and hence it is, probably, that we aave seen of late so many English houses erected in the form nearly of cubical boxes, or hhinese tea-chests, every idea of picturesque beauty being entirely out of the question. ' The species of architectm-al design we are now advocating as peculiarly suited to the mglish villa embraces equally every class of building, from the humblest cottage to the irrgest mansion, and is consistent with the greatest economy or the highest luxury and. s^penditure. It admits of vast variety of forms, with every sort of decoration from aiiinting and sculpture ; and affords room for the exercise of endless invention, even nordering upon the capricious. Although, being founded upon Roman architecture, it does not admit of an evident mixture of any other positive style, yet it is not so exclusive rat it may borrow from other styles various details, even of the Lombard style, if so i-odified that their origin is not recognisable. But in selecting parts not strictly Grecian r • Roman, to give a wider range and more variety than if confined to the antique, we do nnt recommend introducing many of the gross productions of the old Italian school, which aive, to a certain degree, vitiated modern architecture throughout Europe. On this alibject it is unnecessary to enter more into detail: those who- have made architecture lueir study will understand the points to which we allude ; and to teach those abso- 11 tely unacquainted with the science, a work expressly intended for that pui'pose is lecessary. Meanwhile, the above hints may afford some assistance, and therefore will DOt be misplaced. CHAP. IV. ARRANGEMENT AND DESCRIPTION OF THE VARIOUS APARTMENTS. KncH of the comfort of a house depends upon the judicious arrangement of the several f .)artraents, and this is the first thing that usually occupies the study of the designer. The Tcound-plan of a house in every country must vary with its habits and customs, and what 11 excellent in one may be extremely unsuitable in another. This subject has been much liudied by English architects, and various collections of plans have been published, Ihich niay assist in designing a new one. We may here observe, that it is not our in- nntion, in this work, to give a collection of plans for domestic dwellings, since that would cmand more space than would be consistent with our numerous subjects. When we con- ■Ider the great variety of plans to be adapted to the various classes of society, and the rants and tastes of individuals, it must be obvious that this can be exhibited only in ■ orks devoted expressly to that object. The specimens of architecture given above in Lie woodcuts are not intended as examples to be followed, or as designs for imitation, but aoly to illustrate what has been said on the subject of style. The plan of the interior