1038 SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. Book XIX. or sandal wood. It is difficult to distinguish these among the specimens kept in shops; and the vendors themselves only know the articles by the beauty of the colour, and the prices. It requires different tints to suit different complexions; and trial alone can determine which ought to be preferred, if any should be used. 6146. Portuguese dishes or rouge dishes are small dishes containing paint of a very pale pink hue, said to be a beautiful application; but what is made in London is of a dirty colour. The genuine dishes are rough on the outside. 6147. Chinese wool contains a very lovely colour; but an inferior kind is generally mixed in a parcel with the best. The colour is very fugitive. 6148. Spanish wool. — Of this there are several sorts. The best comes from Spain: an inferior kind is made here. The colour is from cochineal. 6149. Chinese boxes of colours.—Little japanned boxes are sometimes brought from China, containing materials for adorning the face—black for the eye-brows ; red for the face ; and a white powder, said to be real pearl powder. 6150. With respect to red paints, vegetable reds alone are safe to use ; they are dyeing substances, and are harmless ; such as those made from cochineal, safflower, carthamus, sandal wood, and Brazil wood : but the mineral reds, such as minium or red lead, and vermilion or cinnabar (a sulphuret of mercury), are poisonous, and ought to be entirely excluded from the toilet, together with every composition into which they enter as an ingredient. All these metallic preparations, and also ceruse or white lead, destroy the texture of the skin, cause wi'inkles, and compel those who begin their use to continue the practice, although dangerous. The consequence of this is nervous affections, and perhaps palsy. CHAP. IX. SUBSTANCES USED AS PEKfUMES. 6151. The use of perfumes is of eastern origin. They were much used among the Hebrews and Persians, and likewise among the Greeks and Romans- In eastern coun- tries, at present, it is the custom to compliment distinguished guests by sprinkling them with rose and other sweet-scented waters ; and to burn incense, aloes wood, and other perfumes in silver censers ; or to tlirow them on a tripod with burning coals ; and this is sometimes done as a sign that it is time for strangers to take leave. As the nervous system is strongly affected by the volatile drugs made use of as per- fumes, medical men now condemn their general use as prejudicial to health; and they are among us limited to particular occasions, or to be employed in dress. 6152. The substances used as perfumes consist of aromatic gums, resins, and balsams; aromatic leaves, flowers, fruits, and roots of plants, or woods ; also animal perfumes : and the art of the perfumer is the preparation of various products from them, as pomades, essential oils or essences, distilled waters, pastes, pastiles, &c. We shaU first describe the substances themselves from which these are prepared. Sect I. GUMS AND BALSAMS. 6153. Frankincense, sometimes called oUbanum, though the last is somewhat different, is the incense used in Roman Catholic churches, and was used for the same purpose by the ancient Egyptians and Israelites. It is a gura-resiu that distils from a tree, the Juni- pcra Lycia. The best comes from Syria and Arabia. It is in pale yellow drops like mastic, and when laid upon coals or red-hot iron it gives out a sweet-smelling odour. It is employed in pastiles. but is very liable to be adulterated with turpentines. 6154. Myrrh, an ingredient in many tooth-powders, is a gum-resin that exudes from a small scrubby tree that grows in Arabia Felix, the Balsamodendra Myrrha. 6155. Gum Benjamin, or benzoin, is a resin extracted from a tree called Styrax benzoin, which grows in Siam and the Indian islands, Java, Sumatra, &c. It has an agreeable smell, somewhat like vanilla. It is much used in fumigating pastiles, and in certain varnishes which exhale an agreeable odour when heated by the hand. It is the perfume used in court plaister and in perfumed sealing-wax. 6156. Storax is a gum-resin that exudes from a tree called Styrax officinale that grows in countries bordering on the Mediterranean, and likewise in America and India. It is a valuable perfume for some purposes, resembling benzoin, of which it contains 1 -4 per cent. Genuine storax is very difficult to procure ; what is usually had is an inferior kind that comes from Holland.