Chap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 471 SuBSECT. 2. — JEiuUve {Chicorium End'wia, Linn.). 2527. The history of this plant is little known. It is supposed to have come originally tfrom China and Japan, and to have been introduced into England about 1548. It is re- imarkable for its elegant leaves, which are much divided at the edges. When suffered to I remain green by exposure to the light, they are harsh and bitter, but by tying them up ' with bass, and keeping them well earthed, they become blanched and succulent, and lose [ the greater part of their bitterness, retaining only enough to be agreeable. It is grown in ; abundance in the neighbourhood of London, and is much used as a winter salad, and i likewise in soups and stews. The French consume a great quantity of it, raw in salads, i boiled in ragouts, fried with roast meat, and as a pickle ; they esteem it a wholesome 1 esculent. By judicious culture it may be obtained through the winter, when other salads : are not easily procured. 2528. Chicory, or Succory, called also wild endive {Ckicorium Intybus,l,mn.'), is a native I of this counti7, growing wild by the road side; and, though little regarded here, it is much 1 cultivated on the Continent. Its leaves, in the natural state, are bitter; but by steeping t them some hours in water, this bitterness is removed, and still more when blanched. ' They are used as endive in the Netherlands, and particularly the blanched leaves are sold ; in the markets as an early spring salad. The roots are scraped and boiled, and eaten 1 with sauce and potatoes. As chicory is very hardy, easily cultivated, and grows upon very poor land where s scarcely any thing will thrive, chiefly dry calcareous soils, its cultivation has been strongly t recommended by Arthur Young, and other writers on agriculture, as a food for cattle. 2529. Mr. Loudon states that an acre of chicory might be easily grown upon cheap land t five or ten miles distant from the place of consumption. The roots may be brought to- 1 gether early in the autumn, and planted and packed close together in a few hundred feet of : garden ground to defend them from the frost of winter; then by laying on some earth and 1 manure early in the spring, the leaves will push into it in a blanched state, and form a \ very crimp and early salad, the new leaves being derived from the stock of sap elaborated : in the preceding year. The adoption of this plan of cultivating chicory may be recom- : mended to many great towns in the north of England, where anything in the shape of a - salad is rarely seen until the end of April, and then only tough green lettuces, far more ' bitter than this invitingly white chicory. Its growth is so rapid that it may be cut three i or four times every year. 2530. Its roots may be laid up in a warm cellar, and if kept from the frost, it will then ssoon send out a crop of blanched leaves, from which a salad may be obtained in the ^ winter. This property is also taken advantage of on ship-board ; the roots are put into ,ia cask with sand, having the sides pierced with numerous holes (or a hamper will do), ;iand the leaves make their way through the holes ; this method of forcing is carried on e extensively in France. 2531. But there is another use to which the roots of this plant have been applied. Dried .land ground, they are employed to a great extent in Holland and Flanders, and likewise in t France, as a substitute for coffee. See Chap. XI. Book VIII. " Coffee." SuBSECT. 3. — Celery {Apium graveolens, Linn.). 2532. Celery is also a native of Britain : the wild plant is known by the name of ssmallage, and grows on the side of ditches, and in the neighbourhood of the sea ; but lalthough it resembles the cultivated plant considerably, it has a rank, acrid, and disagree- aable taste, and is even narcotic and unsafe ; yet it has been converted by cultivation into t the mild aromatic flavour of the garden celery. 2533. The blanched foot-stalks of the leaves are eaten raw, and great care is taken to lihave them in perfection on the table. The blanching of celery is a striking instance of I the effect of the want of light in vegetation. All the colouring matter in plants is deve- ! loped or assisted in its formation by the sun's rays ; heat alone will not produce the same V effect: it is light that causes the colour, and hence plants that gi-ow in a dark place are aalways white ; it may be observed that the part of the stem of all plants just below the -surface of the ground is white, and that the green does not commence till above the sur- •face. To procure the stalks of the celery as white as possible, they are kept almost entirely covered with earth while growing, and only the tops of the leaves suffered to appear • above ground. This management also increases their crispness, and renders them milder •'flavoured. In Germany celery is boiled and served up as a dish, and the Italians use the -green leaves in soup. With us the flavour of celery is employed in the culinary art; and when it is required, and neither the leaves nor stems can be had, the seeds bruised are sometimes employed as a substitute. In the neighbourhood of Manchester celery is grown ■of an enormous size. 2531. Celeriac is a variety of celery having the root of a turnip form, the only part that llh4