521 Chap. I. WATER. We must observe that water never contains so much sulphate of lime as to be per- fectly hard, or to destroy altogether the action of soap ; therefore we find water more or less hard ; and to a certain degree it may do for washing, though badly. 2912. Carbonate of lime is another sidistancc very commonly dissolved in water, and which occasions hardness, as well as being otherwise inconvenient and prejudicial. Carbonate of lime is composed of lime united to carbonic acid, which has been described when treat- ing of " Combustion," Book II. Chap. II. 2913. Common carbonate of lime not being soluble in water, it is natural that one should inquire, how it can be occasionally held in solution in that fluid ? That the carbonate of lime in hard water is dissolved is evident, since water of this kind is perfectly transparent, and not cloudy as if chalk were mixed with it. It is not possible to account for this cir- cumstance, nor to explain distinctly the mode of remedying this defect in water by ■ depriving it of its carbonate of lime, without entering into the following details, which, . although a chemical subject, we shall endeavour to render very simple, at the same time recommending every one to cultivate chemistry so far, at least, as to be able to understand I explanations of this nature, — a task which is far from being difficult, and perfectly within I the easy attainment of every person who has had the advantage of a liberal, or even an I ordinary, education. 2914. Every kind of limestone or carbonate of lime, of which chalk is one, is insoluble • in pure water; therefore pure water, running over chalk or other limestone rocks, cannot ' be impregnated with lime. Were not this the case, we should have no water free I from this earth, as it is so abundant in nature; nor should we have springs of water issuing so pure as they do frequently from chalk rocks. But springs of natural water are 1 often impregnated with carbonic acid, which they receive in the earth by means not well I understood; the fact, however, is certain ; and when such water is exposed to the air, but : still more when boiled, the acid gas flies ofi', and leaves the water free. Now, common 1 carbonate of lime, as, for instance, chalk, is, as we observed, united to carbonic acid, but to : a certain determinate proportion only of this acid ; it cannot take up any more as common 1 carbonate : no chalk or limestone contains more than this fixed quantity; and we have ! said that in this condition it is not soluble in water. But, if common carbonate of lime ■ should meet with water holding carbonic acid without lime, the lime of the carbonate will I then receive an additional quantity of the acid gas, and thus become doubly carbonated, or ' what is called a bi-carbonate, or, as some say, a super-carboTiate; and this bi-carbonate of I lime is soluble in water. 2915. Upon these facts the explanation of the phenomenon in question depends. In I order that water should have carbonate of lime in solution, it must first have been impreg- 1 nated, by some means or other, with carbonic acid; how that has happened we cannot ; always say: we know that this gas issues in abundance from the interior of the earth, as I in the case of the famous Grotte del Cane, and nvmiberless other instances. Water greedily ; absorbs this gas, and by its means, in the way just mentioned, it is rendered capable of 1 holding abundance of lime in solution. But what will be the natural consequence of 1 exposing such water, now impregnated with lime, to the air, and still more of boiling it? We have said that the carbonic acid will be driven off by exposure; that is, so much car- Ibonic acid as was sufiicient to convert the common carbonate of lime into bi-carbonate of 1 lime — but no more. By boiling, therefore, the bi-carbonate is reduced to common car- ! bonate. Now what must follow ? Bi-carbonate of lime is a soluble substance, and the •solution of it in water is transparent: but common carbonate is not soluble, that is, water I cannot retain it in solution ; consequently the newty-formed carbonate falls down as a cloudy I precipitate. Every one knows that if a common carbonate of lime, as powdered chalk, or 1 limestone of any kind reduced to the state of a powder, be mixed with water, they will mot dissolve; but, after causing at first the fluid to be turbid, will, after some time, settle I to the bottom as a pow dery or pasty mass, leaving the water quite free. This is exactly ■ what happens in the case we have mentioned, with this difi'erence, that the precipitated ■ carbonate does not fall down in the state of a loose powder or soft pasty substance, but I forms a hard crust; and it is this crust which we call furr, and which lines the insides of I our tea-kettles. All waters that deposit furr in kettles or boilers must have had in solu- Ition bi-carbonate of lime, which has been thrown down in the state of common carbo7iate, i in consequence of the boiling of the water sending off and dissipating part of the carbonic : acid. 2916. From this explanation, the remedy for water having carbonate of lime in it will be ' easily understood. Boil the water for some time, and the carbonate will separate and fall down. Some waters clog the kettles and boilers much faster than others, owing to their i having a very large portion of carbonate of lime. It is well known that this is a serious I inconvenience in steam boilers ; and, when tea-kettles become much furred, they do not 1 boil water so readily. The remedy just mentioned, of precipitating the carbonate of lime, by boiling, is I tedious, and can only be effected on a small scale -. another method has been suggested,