RATIONALE OF THE PROCESSES IN COOKERY. Chap. 11. 811 well known, unite readily to water; by means of mucOage or starchy matter, however, oil and water are made to unite, as happens in what is termed by apothecaries an emuhion. Thus almond emulsion is formed by beating up almonds with water or some other fluid ; the oil of the almonds is made to combine with the water by means of the mucilage and starch of the almond. In the same manner, much of the dissolved fat in soup is made to unite, and prevented from rising to the surface, by means of thickening added, which con- sists of flour, rice, oatmeal, or some such material, containing starch and mucilage ; and thus a good deal of the fat is made to unite with the soup ; what refuses to do so, and rises to the surface, should be skimmed off. Dr. Kitchener recommends, in order to save time, that the soup should be made the evening before it is wanted, and when it is cold the fat may be removed from the surface, which, when clarified, is useful for all the pur- poses of dripping; and Beauvillier observes, that this is the best of all the fats used for 4653. In making soup the operation should be conducted very slowly, to give time for the above combinations to take place ; and the heat should always be under the boiling point of water, or what is termed simmering. 4654. // is the opinion of physicians, that the nutritive pmvers of sovp had been over-rated by Count Rumford and others, and likewise those of jelly prepared from animal sub- stances, which consists of coagulated gelatine. A very small quantity of solid gelatine, when dissolved in water and cooled, causes it to gelatinise, or set into a jelly; and an erroneous estimate has been formed of the strength of soups by observing their forming a jelly when cold. Gelatine likewise is considered by Dr. Prout and others as less nutri- tive than albumen ; but it is the fii-st only that is found in soups, as we have stated ; the albumen is retained in the meat. Hence soups, generally speaking, cannot be considered so nourishing to stomachs that can digest solid food; but as gelatine can be digested by persons of weak stomachs, who cannot take more substantial sustenance without incon- venience, soups are very proper for certain invalids. Notwithstanding these medical opinions, which are no doubt correct, we have the examples of France, Germany, and other Continental nations, as well as Scotland, in favour of the nutritive power and whole- someness of this Itind of cookery, and there is no doubt that the converting a small quan- tity of animal food into soup with vegetables is by far the most economical way of using it; and it is to be wished that the strong prejudice that prevails in England against it, particularly among the working classes, was removed. 4655. Tlie bouillon of France is a kind of soup or stew, well known to every family there by the termpo* au feii, and forms the dinner, and often the breakfast, of a large proportion of the inhabitants of Paris. The manner of preparing it is as follows:—An earthen pot, with a cover, called a marmite {fig. 627.), is provided, made to hold from one to seven pounds of meat. A sufficient quantity of lean meat (bceuf maigre), usually part of the leg or shoulder, according to the family, is put into this vessel, which is then filled up with cold water, say about five pints of water to one pound and a half of meat. The pot is then placed on the hearth close to the wood fire, and generally upon the hot ashes. When it begins to simmer. Fig. 627. or boil gently, the scum which is thrown up is carefully removed from time to time with a spoon, which requires three-quarters of an hour before the whole is thrown up, and the meat and water cleansed from every impurity. A carrot, half a parsnip, a turnip, an onion, a little celery, or, in short, any vegetables in season, are then added, together with salt and spice. After these additions, the pot remains covered at the fire, and is kept just simmering for six hours more, hot water being supplied in the room of what is evaporated. Length of time appears to be essential to the perfection of this soup ; and all who are acquainted with French soups acknowledge their excellence. 4656. Soup can be made from bones alone ; and though this information may not be of much importance in English domestic economy, where it is seldom practised, still it is an interesting subject, and some useful application may be made of it in certain situations. The composition of bone has been described in Book VII. Chap. II., as consisting of a solid form of certain earthy salts, chiefly phosphate of lime, inclosing a little cartilage and abundance of gelatine. 4657. Cold water has scarcely any action on bone; but by maceration in water a long time, the texture becomes more loose and open, and the gelatinous part becomes gradually softened. 4658. Boiling water acLi considerably upon ione, when reduced to small pieces by rasping or bruising. The first effect is to dissolve and separate the natural oil, which rises to the top, and when cold, concretes to a stiety fat. The water dissolves a portion of the gelatine, which composes a very considerable part of the substance even of the driest and most compact bones. M. Pelletior iiuiile somo .iiicur.itc nxprrhncntpi nil tliis Bubjcct. He m.iccratrd six pounds of dry bone ahavings, procured at the button-moulu iiiakera, fur twudnys, in cold water, and then boiled tliem fur nine