ON THE MAKING OP MEAD. Chap.V. 659 U u 2 de"Tee, driven honey out of the field, and the production of corn has given rise to the manu- facture of ale. Of late, mead has been little used in England, and is now scarcely known. Though mead and metheglin appear to have been the same, yet some have drawn a distinction, considering the latter to be the superior beverage. It is said that Queen Elizabeth was so fond of metheglin, that she had some made for her special drinking every year. 3715. The composition of honey will be stated in our account of that substance. Book X. Chap. XIV. Diluted with water, it is susceptible of the vinous fermentation without the addition of yeast: but mead, when made from honey and water only, is flavourless and heavj'; it is much improved by the addition of fruit-juice and spices. 3716. The method of making mead without fruit, as commonly practised in England, is as follows: — Boil honey in water for an hour, in the proportion of three to four pounds of honey to a gallon of water. Skim it carefully, draining the skimmings through a hair sieve, and returning what runs thi-ough. When of the proper coolness, stir in yeast, a tea-cup full for nine gallons, and let it ferment. Some add half an ounce of hops to pre- serve it; but this is not usual. Tun or transfer it to the cask, and ferment it in the usual manner. Put it in a cool cellar, and in a year it will be fit to bottle. Strong mead, if ■well made, will keep many years, and, indeed, requires to be kept one or two before it is sufficiently meliorated; it improves by time. Some put two lemon peels to each gallon while it is fermenting; others add cinnamon, ginger, cloves, mace, and rosemary. It was formerly a custom to add some ale-wort, and it was then called Welsh braggart. Mead may be made into a very agreeable beverage, not inferior to many foreign wines. 3717. Macquer^ in his Dictionary of Cheviistry" directs to choose the whitest, purest, and best tasted honey, and to put it into a Itettle with more tlian its weight of water; a part of this liquor must be evaporated by boiling, and the liquor scummed till its consistence is such that a fresh egg shall be supported on its surface without sinking more than half its thiclcness ; then the liquor is to be strained and poured into a barrel, which, when nearly full, must be kept in a warm ])lace, taking care that the bung-hole be slightly covered, but not closed, 'the fermentation which ensues will subsist during two or three months, according to the degree of heat. During the fermentation the barrel must be filled up occasionally with more of the same kind of liquor of honey (some of whic h ought to be kept apart) to supply what works out of the barrel. When the fermentation ceases, and the liquor has become vinous, the barrel is to bo put into a cellar, and bunged up. In about a year the mead will be fit to be bottled. 3718. Mead is still a favourite beverage among the northern nations, and is still drunk in large quantity in some parts of Europe, particularly in Russia, Poland, and Lithuania, where a vast deal of honey is produced in the forests. " The process of brewing mead in Poland is very simple ; the proportions of the ingredients are three parts of water to one of honey, and .50 lbs. of mild hops are used to 163 gallons. When the water is boiling, and it is kept stirring till it is milk-warm, it is then put into a large cask, and allowed to ferment for a few days ; it is then drawn off into another cask, wherein there has been aqua vitas or whiskey, bungi-d quite close, and afterwards taken to the cellars, which, in this country, are excellent and cool. This mead becomes good in three years' time ; and, by keeping, it improves, like many sorts of wine. The mead for immediate drink is made from malt, hops, and honey in the same proportion ; anfi it undergoes a similar process. In Hungary it is usual to put ginger in the mead. There arc also various other sorts of mead in Poland, made of honey, wild cherries, berries of the Cornus mascula, and raspberries; they all undergo the same process, and are excellent after a few years' keeping." — Loudon's Encyclop<Edia of Agriculture. 3719. Medd is made in Russia in great perfection. It is there, according to Mr. Tooke, of two kinds, white and red. To make the first, two poods of white honey are mixed in five ankers of clear river or soft water, and boiled and skimmed till nearly an anker is boiled away. The liquor is then strained, through a fine sieve or piece of linen, into a broad open vessel, and mixed with a couple of spoonfuls of beer.lces and a pound of white bread, Icalatsch. .\rter it has stood in this vessel in a moderately warm place, and fermented for thirty- six hours, it is poured through another sieve or piece of linen into a cask in which has been previously [int a pound of small-shred isinglass for clarifying it. For red mead, to one pood of honey they add eight vedross of w.iter, and reduce them by boiling to six vedross. When cold, the juice of about half a chetverick of pressed or bruised cranberries, strained through a sieve, is mixed with it. A small complement of yeast is then added, and some isinglass or whites of eggs are thrown in to fine the liquor. Cinn.amon, cloves, ginger, mace, and other spices are infused. It is then placed in a cool cellar, and, .after standing there for some %veeks, it is cither bottled for use, or drawn from the cask direct. .Strawberries, raspberries, and cherries are sometimes mixed with the mead to improve its flavour. Honey is so abundant in some of the forests of Kussia as to form a consider.ahlc article of trade ; and some tribes scarcely follow any other employment than the rearing of bees. Some individuals ])osscss thousands of hives of wild bees which are formed in the trees. 3720. Mead is made loilh a mixture of fruit juice in a variety of ways. Together with honey, white and red currants and raspberries are employed ; likewise the rinds of oranges and lemons are added. Aroniatics and spices are used occasionally ; as the leaves of rosemary, lavender, and sweet briar; and cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg. These addi- tions are made towards the end of the fermentation, and are suspended in the cask, before it is bunged, in a muslin bag, which may have a piece of flint in it to weigh it down. The mead should be kept in the wood from six to twelve months, and from nine months to two years in the bottle. 3721. White currant »nr<j(/. —Infuse two gallons of white currants bruised, thirty pounds of honey, and three ounces of tartar, in Hlteon gallons and a half of boiling watcT. Stir this together lor a quarter of au hour and then set it tolermi^nt. When the ferment.atiou is complete, and the liquor clear, add one gallon of brandv' and bottle it immediately. A slow fermentation will go on in the bottle, and in a few months it will be brisk and fit to drmk. If it requires to be still, the fermentation must be continued longer, accorduig to the nrln- ciples already laid down. ' 3722. lied currant mead. — Instead of the above mentioned quantity of white currants, use six quarts of red currants and two of black, with twenty-live pounds of honey, and a pound of red beet root cut into thin slieps Proceed as before.