1123 PARTS OF A CARRIAGE. Chap. VI. '4. TTie jaunting car, fi(j. 885., is a common travelling vehicle cheap, safe, Fig. 8S5. in Ireland, and is and convenient, though not elegant. They are much employed as stage con-- veyances, and are likewise kept of a handsomer construction by private individuals. Fig. 885. represents one of the latter in a plain style, and calculated for six persons, drawn by one horse ; the wheels are low, and the feet of the passengers come within a foot of the ground. Between both the seats is a space called the well, for luggage. Be- sides this, there are several other constructions. In some the wheels are outside, and the passengers sit face to face, instead of back to back, as in this figure; and these have some- times the addition of upright standards and canopies for defence in case of rain, forming an economical summer carriage, extremely agreeable. The best kind are put upon springs, lu the common country cart, which is smaller, there is no separate driving seat, but the driver sits on the same seat with the passengers, or often runs before. Another modifica- tion, called " Bianconi's jaunting car," is on a larger scale, carrying four or five passen- gers on each side, has four wheels, and is drawn by two horses. .CHAP. VI. VARIOUS DETAILS RESPECTING THE PARTS OP A CARRIAGE. 6675. The body of a carriage is composed of a framework of ash, filled in with pannels of soft straight-grained mahogany, usually Honduras. The roof in close carriages is made of deal well blocked underneath, and covered externally with hides stretched and dried on, being afterwards blacked. In some carriages the coach box and boot are connected with the body ; in others they are detached and supported by the carriage part. At the back of the body, there is a projection called the sword case : but in light carriages this is often omitted. In open carriages, a jointed hood or head covered with leather is sometimes attached, and this is either permanently fixed, or made to take away if required. The most complete method of excluding the rain was described in the " Britzschka." To give the body greater depth inside, without injuring the symmetry of the exterior, two pieces of wood, called rockers (because shaped like the rockers of a child's cradle) are fixed on the bottom angles, and to these the floor-boards are nailed. These pieces being painted black are scarcely seen on the outside. The bodies of open four-wheeled ccarriages, as a barouche or a britzschka, must be made stronger with iron plates at the bottom than those of a close carriage, which require none. The varieties in the forms of bodies is considerable, and chiefly characterises the kind of vehicles. Open bodies have this advantage, that three persons can sit with tolerable ease on the same length of seat as would accommodate only two in a close carriage. A full- sized seat for a close body to contain three persons is about four feet two inches ; that of an open body, three feet five or six inches ; the seat in a close carriage for two persons is 'three feet five or six inches ; in an open body two feet eight or ten inches. The width across the seat is never regular, but generally from fourteen to eighteen inches ; the liheight of the seat is usually fourteen inches. The height inside the body varies; from the top of the seat to the roof from three feet six inches to three feet nine inches, or more. 6676. The doors are framed double to admit of the glasses sliding down between the Uwo thicknesses ; in the best carriages the hinges do not appear on the outside. It is important that the doors should fit well; should they stick a little by swelling at first with hhe wet, it is best not to be in haste to have them reduced, as they will probably shrink in warm weather so as to be too little. The windows are of plate glass for strength as well ■IS appearance. The glasses are inclosed in frames of wainscot, covered with cloth or velvet. The door handles are of brass or of plated metal, generally plain, but sometimes ;nchly chased in dress carriages. 6077. Venetian blinds for excluding the sun in hot weather, and yet admitting the air we added; and shutters of mahogany in pannels, for shutting up the windows and ex- liluding dust are necessary when the carriages are not in use. 6078. The steps are made of iron to fold up double or treble, according to the height, and fill recesses in the insides of the doors when they are closed. They are covered with- 4 C 2