848 Book XI. GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. 4794. Brushes are smaller, and have the hair shorter than brooms; tliey are usually made of hogs' bristles of different degrees of coarseness and fineness, and of various lengths. The hair is doubled and fi,\ed into holes by wire, which is usually concealed by a thin plate of wood that covers it. In ill-made brushes, this covering is apt to come off and expose the wire, and when this fails the hair comes out; should this accident happen, the wood covering should be fixed on again securely. In some brushes the hair is merely fixed into the holes by some cement; these are generally worthless. The various brushes in common use may be enumerated as clothes brushes of various kinds, hat brushes, coarse and fine, shoe brushes, nail brushes, tooth brushes, crumb brushes, bottle brushes, scrubbing brushes, dry loaded rubbers for floors, black lead brushes for grates, furniture brushes, dusting brushes, water-closet brushes, and filtering stone brushes. 4795. TIlb common warming pan for beds is filled with live coals, and it requires care not to leave some smoke and suffocating fumes, independently of the danger of scorching the sheets. A superior warming pan, fig. 740., is filled with boiling water, which is perfectly safe from all these accidents. 4796. Tubes for speaking through, so as to communicate between different apartments at some distance from each other, are at present much employed in shops and manu- factories, and, as they instantly convey intelligence or orders to the remotest parts of an establishment, save an immensity of fatigue, and produce a great economy of time. They have not yet been much introduced into domestic establishments; but they would be found extremely advantageous in large houses, in conveying orders from the nursery to the kitchen, or from the house to the stable. Mr. Babbage observes, " their convenience arises, not merely from saving the servant or workman useless journeys to receive direc- tions, but from relieving the master himself from that indisposition to give trouble, which frequently induces him to forego a trifling want, when he knows that his attendant must mount several flights of stairs to ascertain his wishes, and, after descending, must mount again to supply them. The distance to which such a mode of communication can be extended does not appear to have been ascertained; but it is probably much greater than is required in the largest mansion." The tubes are usually made of tin, and about an inch and a half in diameter, with a conical piece at the end for speaking into; the person spoken to puts his ear to the other end of the tube; and a bell is used, the ringing of which is a signal to listen. Tubes for this purpose have lately been made of India rubber. 4797. These speaking tubes first came into use here in consequence nf the singular exhibition, about thirty- five years ago, of what was called the Invisible Girl. In an empty room was seen an apparatus resembling a large ball, having four speaking trumpets attached to it, the whole being suspended by silken strings in the middle of a framework, nearly of the form of that of a tent bedstead, Jig. 741., in no part of which was it pos- siijle for a human being to be concc.iled. Tf a visitor applied his mouth to either of the trumpet mouths, and asked some question, a reply was given bv a voice which seemed to proceed from the ball, wliicli occasioned the nnmc, the invisible Girl. Although Ibis illusion rrea(ed much curiosity in the public, and the apparatus w.as examined for months liy numerous Ingenious persons, yet no one hit upon the mode in which the effect was produced it not being then gencrjilly known that sound could be conveyed through tubes, and the tube throuKli which the sound was really conveyed bnng concealed. The following, however, w.is the construc- tion of the aiiparatns : the fr.imework, contained a metallic lube indicated by the dotte<i lines, and this tube passed under the floor into an .adjoining .apartment. The person who gave llic answer to a question put at the trumpets, applied bis nioulh to the end of this tube, and the sound Avas conveved by its means to the poinu in the frame oi)posite to the trumpet mouths, which they entered and were reflected back, and seemed, Fig. 740.