1154 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Book XXV. Spain, where great attention is paid to the breed of mules, they are used to draw carriages, and for riding, and there is a royal stud of asses for breeding them at Ileynosa in the Asturias. It is thought by some persons that their employment might be usefully ex- tended in this country. 6844. The domestic ass is comparatively of recent adoption in Europe. It appears that they were scarce in England in the time of Queen Elizabeth. Little or no attention has been paid to the common and inferior breed here. There are several others of different qualities, as the Arabian race, chiefly used for the saddle; and a fine sort are reared in the Isle of Gozo in the Mediterranean, &c. Asses are little employed, except by the poorest people, and arc tlien chiefly supported by the pickings of lanes and by-ways, and yet they carry heavy loads, and might be rendered very useful in many ways. Their employment for riding and drawing small vehicles is well-known. BOOK XXV. DAIRY, AND THE MANAGEIVIENT OF DOJIESTIC AmMALS. CHAP. I. TIIE MAIfAGEMENT OF COWS. 6845. It can scarcely be necessary to point out the advantages to many private families in the country of keeping a few cows, particularly where the distance from a town is con- siderable, and the facilities for obtaining milk few. Besides the gratification of having cream unadulterated, butter churned fresh for breakfast, syllabubs, and other prepara- tions, the possession of a supply of the most nutritious food for the younger members of a family is of great value. In the following observations, we propose confining ourselves to directions for keeping cows for the domestic dairy, and for making butter and cheese ; but we do not intend to go into all the details necessary for a dairy farm, where the manufacture of those articles is carried on with a view to profit. 6846. Cows may always be purchased at the markets and fairs in the vicinity of large towns, the price varying from 7/. to 20/. Certain characters or marks of a good cow have been given by -STriters on cattle; such as wide horns, a thin head and neck, large dewlaps, full breast, broad back, large deep belly, the udder capacious, but not too fleshy, the milk veins prominent, and the bag tending far behind, teats long and large, buttocks broad and fleshy, tall long and pliable, legs proportioned to the size of the carcase, and the joints short, &c. But these descrip- tive indications will be of little or no use to a person Inexperienced in the purchase of cows ; and as much imposition is frequently practised in markets, it would be advisable to have the selection made through the medium of a person skilled in this matter, in whom confidence can be placed. Some recommend, as the most certain waj- of knowing how long a cow may be presumed to continue in milk, to purchase one which has a calf a fortnight old ; the calf may be disposed of immediately, as the feeding it up to a state fit for the butcher will scarcely compensate for the loss of the milk. 6847. It is of importance to select cows of a proper breed, as there is a great difference in their qualities as to aflbrding quantity as well as richness of milk ; some are also of a quiet and docile temper, and others more or less wild and unmanageable. It is observed, as a general rule, that the cows of the short-horned or hornless breed afford milk of the best quality, while they are less dangerous to the milkers than the long-homed. The cows that afford the greatest quantity of milk are the large breeds of Lancashire, Yorkshire, and Staffordshire ; but they require much food, and would starve on land where a smaller kind, as the Scotch or Welch cows, would find an ample supply. The Suffolk duns and the Ayrshire cows, both small breeds, unite in a useful degree quantity and quality of milk ; and the Devonshire and Welch thrive under ordinary keep, and stand the winter season well. But the Alderncy cow is superior to every other for the richness of its milk and butter, though the quantity is small; it will yield only two gallons of milk a-day, •while the Suffolk dun will give more than double that quantity. The Alderncy is small and gentle, but looks always poor ; they are now dear, and are only found in private establishments.