It HAP. II. 945 COOKING FOR THE INVALID. lauccpan. By repeating this process, the oatmeal will be soon washed into the saucepan, then it must be boiled twenty minutes, or even more, and strained off for use. 5546. Common groat gruel. — Wash three ounces of common groats, and add to them tio quarts of water ; put the mixture into a well-tinned saucepan, and after it has boiled pp, draw it to one side of the fire and let it simmer until it be reduced to half the quan- rty. Stu- it frequently, and strain it through a sieve when done. Gruel soon becomes sour, hence it should be made in small quantities at a time. For ina invalid, or for a child fed upon gruel, it should be made daily. 554". Caudles. — A caudle is made of fine, smooth, yet thick groat gi-uel. While it is nooling it should be occasionally stirred with a spoon. When it is wanted, it should be rs-arraed up in small quantities, with enough of white wine, lemon-peel, and nutmeg to liavour it, and of sugar to sweeten it to the taste. 5548. Ale caudle. — To a quart of thick groat gruel add a pint of home-brewed ale, nome allspice, and sugar. Boil altogether for the space of five or six minutes, then strain t,, and put it in a cool place till wanted. This caudle is frequently made for poor country iteighbours in their confinement. It is useful as a nourishment for them at that period, iiind sometimes prevents them from resorting to stronger and more stimulating liquors. '5549. Flour cmirile This is for tliose who st.md in need of astringent food. Put into a pudding basin iiklf ,1 pound of flour ; cover the basin and set it in a kettle of boiling water. Keep it boiling for two hours : hae flour will be converted into a hard ball enveloped with a brown crust, which must be removed. The Irour is then grated and put into a jar for use ; and it is formed into a caudle by rubbing a dessert-spoonful of I i into five table-spoonfuls of the purest cold water that can be procured. Set over the fire to boil five table- woonsful of new milk, with two lumps of sugar ; when the milk boils pour the flour and water into it at that very moment. Stir tlie whole over a slow fire for twenty minutes ; it is then ready for use. Made in this r.iay it forms a good food for young children. .' 8550. Bice cmirile. Boil a quart of water ; mix one table-spoonful of ground rice with cold water, and Hour it into the boiling. Continue the boiling until the caudle thickens, stirring it all the time. When it I. e"ins to thicken add to it a wine-glass of brandy, some grated lemon-peel, sugar, and nutmeg. Boil it a little lunger, until perfectly smooth, and then strain it into a basin. Without brandy or spice, but with the addition II Tmilk, this caudle forms e."ccellent food for very young children. Sect. IV. MILK NOURISHMENT FOR INVALIDS. 5551. Milk porridge is sometimes made by adding milk to fine groat gi'iiel. Another rjay is to mix a table-spoonful of oatmeal in a basin with cold milk, and to pour it, when X'crfectly smooth, into a saucepan containing half a pint of boiling milk. If this does not liaicken it sufficiently, it must be boiled a little longer. '■ 5552. Scotch porridge Stir oatmeal and water together, and let it settle. Pour ofT the water and add T'-esh to it. This must remain till the next day, when the water is strained away from the oatmeal and ► oiled. Milk is added while the porridge is boiling. The milk must be in the proportion of two parts of miilk to one of water. .' 55.53. Onion porridge. — Boil an onion, sliced, in water for half an hour ; pour away the water and add to liie onions half a pint of new milk. Boil together the milk and onions for half an hour, and serve altogether n I a basin. This taken at bed-time inclines a patient to sleep and to perspire. 5554. Ground rice milk Rub a spoonful of ground rice very smooth in a little cold liiilk; add to it three half pints of milk, some cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmegs ; boil ililtogether for a quarter of an hour. Sweeten to the taste. 5555. Sago milk Wash in cold milk a table-spoonful of sago, pouring off the milk, tuut adding to the sago a quart of new milk. Let both boil slowly together till reduced 05 a pint. Cinnamon may be added if required ; but neither sugar nor spice is usually iddded to this food. 5556. Arrow-mot and milk. — Mix smooth, with a very little cold milk, one dessert- ppoonful of arrow-root. Boil half a pint of new milk, and the moment it rises to the "loiling point, stir in gently the arrow-root and cold milk. It should be very thick when rrst made, or on becoming cool it will be too thin. If it does not thicken sufficiently at irrst, it must be boiled until it does thicken. But when milk and arrow-root are boiled r jigethcr, it is supposed that it becomes of a more astringent nature than it is desirable it Miould be for invalids, generally speaking. Sect. V. MEAT AND VEGETABLE TEAS. 5557. Beef tea should not be made like common gravy or broth, but by a process ithich will prevent the fat from mingling with it. Cut half a pound of nice gravy meat unto thin slices and lay them in a hollow dish, pouring over them a pint and a half of "oiling water ; cover the dish and place it near the fire for half an hour; remove it into ' saucepan, and boil it for ten minutes over a quick fire ; remove the scum which has isen in boiling; let it stand covered for ten minutes longer ; strain off and season it with 3lilt only. Beef tea thus made is a light and useful nourishment to tliose whose stomaciis 3 P