928 FRENCH COOKERY. IJook XIV. i- salt and \vater; into a little velouto throw half a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, some chopped parsley and winter savoury; after draining the beans, toss them in this sauce, and serve under ham or bacon. 6401. Windsor heans d la poulelte The beans must be young and fresh-gathered; boil thetiLin salt water: drain them, and stew them in sauce toumec (see '* Sauce ") with some parsley, green onions, a little chopped savoury, anil a lump of sugar. When the beans are reduced, throw in a thickening of the yolk« of two eggs and cream. Send them up in a short sauce, and properly seasoned. 5402. Peas. —Take two quarts of green peas, put them into a pan with cold water, and three ounces of butter ; handle them in the water, so that the butter may be equally dis- tributed over their surface, in order that they may adhere together; drain off the water, take out the peas by handfuls, and put them into a cullender. In this state, equally smeared with butter, stew them over a moderate fire, with a bunch of parsley and some gi-een onions ; dust a little flour over them, and stir them carefidly; next pour over the peas sufficient boiling water to cover them, but not more ; let this boil fast to evaporate the water quickly; when it is dissipated, put in a lump of sugar, moistened, that it may be more speedily dissolved, and a little salt; have ready mixed two ounces of butter with some flour, which stir into the peas, and let it be so equally distributed among them that none remain at the bottom of the pan. .5403. Green peas d la paysanne Prepare the peas as in the preceding recipe; take a few cabbage and cos lettuces, a liandfid of parsley, and a few green onions ; wash them, and instead of cutting, break them ; drain them from the water, and put them with the peas over a very slow lire. No other moisture will be required than the butter; stir the contents of the stew-pan repeatedly, that they may not burn. When done, add pepper and salt, but no thickening. 5404. French brans d la puzilelle Boil them in salt and water^to preserve their colour ; take some sauce tournee, reduce and thicken with the yolks of two eggs, to which add finely-chopped par>ley; work into the thickening a lump of fresh butter, pepper, salt, and the juice of half a lemon ; drain the beans well, and dish them iTghtly, that the sauce, which must cover them, may also penetrate to the bottom of the dish. 540,5. Artichokes in white sauce.—Pare the bottoms, and take ofiF the points of the leaves of three or four artichokes; put them into a large pot of boUing salt and water; after boiling them well, throw them into fresh water; take away the small leaves with care, that the choke may be entirely removed; replace the leaves, and put them again into hot water. Drain and serve them with sauce as before. ■'i406. Cf/pjy wilh sauce blanche. — Cut into lengths twelve heads of celery; stew them in a little water, butter, and salt. When done, drain them, and serve with sauce blanche. If the celery is somewhat green, blanch it with boiling water, putting it into a blanc as for celery sauce. SuBSECT. 3. — Entremets of Sweet Dishes. 5407. To prepare the rice for curry The object to be attained in this preparation is to bring the rice to table sufficiently done and swollen, without sticking together. Take half a pound of rice picked clean and washed; throw it, a little at a time, into a large quantity of boiling water, and let it simmer till three parts done ; take it out cautiously, and place it on a hair sieve to drain, and pour plenty of cold water on it, that .ill the vegetable glutinous matter may be washed off. Put it into a stew-pan with a cloth at bottom and another at top, and set the stew-pan in a gentle heat (that of an oven is best), that the moisture may be exhaled from it, and imbibed by the upper cloth. 5408. Casserole of rice.—Take a pound and a half of Carolina rice, wash it in warm water and put it into an open stew-pan: cover it with stock in this proportion : if the rice lie one inch deep in the pans, let the stock rise two inches above it, and so on : boil and skim the surface as the impurities arise, then withdraw it from the fire and set to simmer only : in twenty minutes stir it, and let it simmer on twentj' minutes longer; stir it again, and, if the rice be perfectly soft, take it ofi^; if not, add more stock, and continue the simmering until it is done sufiicieutly. Drain away the fat, by setting the saucepan aslant, and before the rice is cold, work it well with a spoon or spatula into a fine smooth paste ; it can hardly be worked too much; every grain of rice should undergo the pressure, and more stock should be worked in if it appear too dry. Form your casserole of this paste, by laying it in a heap four or five inches high and about seven in diameter : work it with the hand as if for a raised pie, or pat it on a mould, and ornament it on the outside with cut carrots, not pressed into the rice, but standing out from it like the bds- relief of ornamented vases. Then mask the whole surface with clarified butter, and place it in a hot oven for an hour and a half: when of a fine yellow colour take it out, remove the top of the casserole, and clear away the rice that docs not adhere to the crust, which should be as clear as possible. Mix some bcchanielle or Espagnole with the rice, and put it again into the casserole with such ragouts as may have been prepared for it. Glaze the outer ornaments, and serve it. Water, butter, and salt, are often used in preparing the rice instead of stock, as preserving better its colour. A casserole may contain either white or brown ragouts, blanquettes, minces or fricassees of poultry, scollops of fish, maccaroni, &c. 5409 Turban rie riz. — Wash a quarter of a pound of rice in two or three waters. T.ikc a quart of good cre.-im' boiling it to see that it will not curdle ; iufu.<iO some lemon-peel in the cream for a quarter of an hour; take it out, and put In the rice ; lay it on a very slow fire till the rice bursts, and when swollen, add « very little salt and some sugar; when done enough, add the yolks, well beaten, of eight eggs. Next beat he whites, and add thorn to the other Ingredients, mixing them slowly. 1 hen have some apples ready peeled