THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. IChap. III. 767 ..'generally brought to table dressed with Parmesan cheese ; it is likewise used in thick- tening soups and in puddings. Since it is very wholesome and nutritive, it appears ddesirable that it should be brought more into general use. 4379. Vermicelli is a preparation very similar, and of Italian origin; it is made in the ssame way as the last; only to the paste are added cheese, yolk of eggs, sugar, and saffron. TThe name means little worms, from its form. 4380. Semolina is the heart of a kind of Italian wheat, called gram duro, remaining in igranules like coarse sand, that resist the action of the mill-stones, which are soft, blunt, 'land not set very close. It is imported for making the best vermicelli, and is also used in >soups, and may be purchased at some of the Italian shops. It is called also soojee : and a sstill smaller kind, called semoletta, is sifted out of the other. 4381. The polenta of the Italians is made from maize, by roasting it when half ripe. 4382. Fictitious sago, salep, macaroni, vermicelli, semolina, and tapioca are manu- ffactured from potato starch. 4383. Rice boiled to a kind of paste, and drawn out into threads, forms a transparent fsubstance used to thicken soups, and is known by the name of China lock soi/. There is aa kind that is opaque, and which is less esteemed. 4384. Sago is the produce of the sago palm (S'ajius farinifera, hmn.), yvhich grows jspontaneously in the East Indies, as well as in the islands of the Indian Ocean j in the IJatter it supplies the principal farinaceous food of the inhabitants. The part which affords the sago is the pith, and to procure this, the body of the ttree, when it is full gi-own, is sawn into pieces, and the raw sago cut out and put into a ttrough with water, in which it is well stirred to separate the flour from the filaments. IThis is now suffered to rest, and the flour or meal subsides to the bottom. The water is I then poured off, and the wet flour laid upon wicker frames to dry. To form it into the rround grains in which we have it, the sago, when moist, is passed through a cullender, aand rubbed into little balls like small shot, and then thoroughly dried. A single trunk oof the tree will furnish 600 pounds of sago ; and Mr. Crawfurd has calculated that in one aacre of ground 430 sago trees can be planted, producing 120,500 pounds of sago. The ! trees require seven years to be fit to cut down. Our sago has sometimes been stated I erroneously to be the produce of the Cycas circinalis, or revoluta, but that yielded by the i cycas is inferior to the other kind. The best sago is of a slightly reddish hue, and readily (dissolves in hot water to a jelly, but differs from wheat starch in being likewise soluble iin cold water. A superior sort is imported from China which has a pearly lustre ; Several other trees yield sago besides the above, but in less quantity. 4385. Cassava.— South America is the native region of a plant of this name (belong- ijng to the tribe of Euphorbiacese), and the roots of which formerly afforded the chief ■sustenance to the Indians of that continent; it is still extensively used there, as well as i in the West Indies. There are two varieties of cassava: the Jatropha Manihot, or bitter cassava; and the . Jatropha Janipha, the sweet cassava. They nearly resemble each other, and both are used i as food. The first in its natural state is so highly poisonous, that the Indians employed its j juice for poisoning their arrows ; the second is not at all hurtful. The roots of the bitter (cassava are nearly of the shape and size of parsnips; and to prepare them they are grated, i and the pulp is subjected to pressure to deprive it of its poisonous juice, which is of a milky (colour: by allowing this to rest a white starch subsides, which is separated from the clear j juice, and reserved for use as food. What remains after pressure consists of the same I kind of starch mixed with the woody or fibrous part of the roots ; when this is dried by (exposure to the heat of a fire, it is poimded and sifted, to separate the fibrous matter from I the starch. The latter is made into dough, which is formed into cakes that are afterwards 1 baked. It is supposed that what may remain of the poisonous juice in the starch is • volatilised by the heat employed. The original inhabitants of America had employed I this process for the preparation of cassava; and it is singular that they should have I found out the means of separating an excellent food from a substance known to be a : malignant poison. The sweet cassava plant, of which bread is also made, is free from : any noxious property; its stalks are green, whereas those of the bitter cassava are rather ' of a purplish hue. 4380. Cassava bread, though not relished by those accustomed to wheaten bread, yet is in such repute with some Creole families who have settled in Europe, that they have sometimes been at considerable trouble and expense to procure it. 4387. Tapioca is made from the finest part of the farinaceous pith of Jatropha Manihot, or cassava tree, by washing the root and preparing a fccula or starcli from it, which when dried, is sprinkled with a little water, and steamed, so as to form irregular massesj when dried in the sun, or on plates of hot iron; these are afterwards broken into the small grains, in which form we have it. A considerable quantity is imported from Brazil, and it is also made in the East Indies. It is extremely nutritious, and forms an excellent food for children, and persons whose powers of digestion are weak.