745 Chap. 11. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. in order to suit the tastes of different customers; at present the following is the practice of the miller. 4237. After the com is ground, the separation usually made for the bakers is as follows. When, as formerly, it was intended merely to separate the husk from the meal of wheat, as is the case in barley and oats, a sieve only was used, and only one quality of meal was prepared. But as we have stated that in wheat there are two kinds of farina, the coarse immediately imder the skin of the grain, and the interior white part in the centre, means have been devised for separating these also from each other. Instead of a common sieve, a cylinder of wire-work is employed for sifting or dressing, as it is called, and this is placed sloping so as to incline about 40° to the horizon. This cylinder has likewise the wires in- the upper half closer together than in the lower half, so that only the finer parts of the flour can go through the first, and not through the second. The cylinder does not turn round, but, instead of that, hair brushes are made to revolve inside, and, by rubbing against the wires, force the flour through. When the whole meal or produce of the grinding is put into this wire cylinder or dressing machine, the very finest part of the flour goes through the closest wii-e-work, which has sixty-four wires to an inch, into a binn below, and con- stitutes the finest or best flour used for pasti-y, and is known by the name of Hertfordshire whites. What is too coarse for that is called middlings, and falls through the next or more open wire-work into another binn, leaving the bran and pollard to fall out at the bottom. The middlings are sometimes used for household bread, but it is occasionally reground in the miU, the stones being set closer than at first; this, in like manner, is then passed through another dressing machine called the bolting cloth, which separates a portion of flour called seconds. What remains, consisting of bran and pollard, is put into the cleai-ing off machine, which is a coarse wire cylinder, and by it the bran is separated from the pollard, the latter being used for sea biscuits and gingerbread, and for fattening hogs and poultry. A quarter of wheat, or thirty-two pecks, yields, in the London mills, 38.\ flour, 8 pollard, and 12 of bran ; the bulk being doubled by the grinding into flour. It is obvious from this enumeration, that so many varieties of flour, formed by the dressing, afford the miller and the baker more opportunities of dealing unfairly than if there were fewer kinds. 4238. These various qualities are employed for different purposes. The best and whitest wheaten bread ought to be made from the finest and whitest flour, called firsts, obtained from the first grinding. 4239. Ordinary bread is usually made from a mixture of firsts and seconds ; but pro- bably too often from a large proportion of the latter. 4240. The best brown bread is made of what is called ivhole meal, or grist flour, that is, meal or flour which has had only the bran taken from it, the pollard and the fine flour being ground up together. This flour can only be had by those who purchase their own wheat, and either grind it at home, or send it to the mill. The expense of the latter is Is. 6c/. or 2s. per sack, and the bran is sent home as well as the flour; and one of the advantages of private or domestic grinding is, that the flour may be dressed in any manner that may be wished, without trusting to the miller. A bushel of wheat produces 60f lbs. of meal and bran, 1^ lb. being lost in dust. A sack of wheat weighs 240 lbs. ; and this produces from 178 to 190 lbs. of flour, together with from 40 to 45 lbs. of bran ; some mix with the grist flour a little firsts or seconds. For an inferior broivn bread, some mix one-fifth of pollard with the grist flour; and the common brown bread of the farm-houses is made from country household flour, or wheat of which the bran is retained in the. meal, being ground down extremely fine. This bread is considered as possessing, for some constitutions, a laxative quality. 4241. Domestic jnills are sometunes employed to grind corn, either in cases where a public mill is not accessible, or where it is wished to take certain means of preventing the possibility of any adulteration of the flour. Various contrivances have been made for this purpose : and it may be pi-oper to state what they are capable of effecting in general. The grinding of oats and barley is easy ; and there is no difiiculty in separating the husks from the meal by the sieve : but the grinding of wheat, and the separation of the flour into the different sorts, is much more difficult; and it is scarcely possible to efi'ect this in a private family so perfectly as it is performed by the skilful miller. Whether all the popular charges against the millers and bakers, of adulterating flour, are true or false, we do not take upon ourselves to determine ; but the nuiin object pro- posed by the use of domestic mills, namely, to secure an unadulterated material for bread, may unquestionably be obtained, although it will seldom be practicable to do much more than to separate the greatest part of the bran by the sieve, leaving a flour perfectly whole- some, but from whicli the best sort of brown bread only can be made. The proper grinding and dressing of wheat flour, with the view to obtain that of the whitest kind, will in general be found to fail for want of the necessary experience which can only be expected from those who are millers by trade. Those domestic mills which act by means of stones are tlie best: but with the imperfect skill of those who will generally have to