1073 CORAL. — ORNAMENTS. 1 Book XXL I have been diluted with ■water: and it would only have affected her as so much chalk in ' vinegar would have done. 6417. Artificial pearls were invented by a French bead maker, of the name of Jacquin, : about the time of Henry IV. This man observed, that, on soaking and washing the : scales of the fish called the bleak, a most beautiful silver coloui'ed powder -was obtained; . and it occurred to him, that, by introducing this substance into the inside of finely blown . glass bulbs, slightly tinged with opaline hues, a perfect imitation of real pearls might be :made. The experiment succeeded, and these pearls came much into fashion for neck- : laces, ear-drops, &c., and continue still to be manufactured in Paris by the descendants of t the original inventor, as well as in other parts of Europe, for various parts of dress. The • silvery powder is fixed upon the inside of the thin glass globules, by gum; and if necessarj-, tthe hollow is filled up with wax. It is said that white bait affords a still more beautiful ;powder; and roach and dace have been tried, but they are inferior. So great was the demand formerly for these ornaments, that the price of a quart of fish scales was from (one guinea to five. The price of real pearls has fallen much since this invention, which i imitates them very exactly. Sect. XXIV. CORAI,. • 6418. This beautiful material, of a fine red colour, is the production of minute insects tthat inhabit the sea, and which consist of a fleshy substance, surrounding asolid calcareous tbody which is called the coral. The species of red coral, used for ornaments, in form rresembles a small branched shrub, and is attached to rocks at the bottom of the sea, from iwhence it is taken by divers. The finest coral is found in the Mediterranean; it is pro- i cured on the coast of Provence, and there is a considerable manufactory of necklaces, (crosses, and other ornaments of this substance at Marseilles. Sect. XXV. various obnaments. 6419. With respect to the various articles made by the jnaeller as ornaments in dress, or tthe infinite variety classed as trinkets, their description would far exceed the limits of this ^work. The most important of the former are necklaces, which are made of gold and gems, I pearl, beads of stones or coloured glass, satin spar, amber, jet, or coral: bracelets are !formed of gold, or velvet with clasps of gold, or copper gilt, plain, or set with stones, f cameos or other ornaments. The term cameo is applied to gems or stones worked in -relievo ; that is, where the objects represented are raised above the plane of the ground ; but the stones on which the objects (generally figures) are cut consist of several layers of I different colours, of which the most valuable are the oriental onyx in black and white I parallel layers, and the camelian in brown and white. Some are cut on agates, and some s stones of four layers of different colours. The ground is of one shade, and the relief of aanother. Antique cameos are valued at an immense price; and some modern Italian ccameos are extremely fine; a single cameo of a good brooch size will sometimes cost t twenty pounds. They are worked by a lathe and pointed instruments of steel with odiamond dust. A cheaper kind of cameos have been made lately, cut from large shells ffound on the African and Brazilian coasts, which have two layers, the ground being teither a pale coffee colour, or a deep reddish orange ; the latter is preferred. Copies from I the antique are made in this manner, in Rome, of exquisite finish; and some very good sare now done in this country. A cheap imitation of cameos is also made in glass enamel. lEar-rings are of gold, or copper gilt, plain, or with gems, or pebbles; the gold is made rremarkably thm, for lightness, as well as on account of the expense. To these may be inAded brooches, and ornamental pins, together with various ornaments for the head-dress; lalso rings, which are plain hoops of gold, or with gems as single stones, or in clusters ^varied in numerous ways, or with engraved stones, antique or modem. All those in gold aare now so successfully imitated in gilt brass, that it is difficult to distinguish the latter ffrom the precious metal. 3 Z