668- Book VIII, BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. putting the beverage into a vessel of thin glass or metal, and surrounding this with the snow. 3771. hi the south of Italy and Sicily at present, iced water is become an article of prime necessity, and is sought for at all seasons, both in summer and winter, with an avidity which, to a native of a northern clime, appears, at first view, (luite unaccountable. Snow for this purpose is preserved in several caverns in Etna, and is brought down from the mountain to be sold in the shops, which are often surrounded by a clamorous mob of purchasers, who express an eagerness to procure it that naturally excites the astonish- ment of an Englishman. Ice is now transported in ships from cold to tropical countries ; and a cargo of it carried to India or South America is not uncommon. 3772. Various methods have been employed for the production of artificial cold. The methods at present in use may be reduced to three : 1. the application of some body natu- rally colder than that to be cooled ; 2. by evaporation ; 3. by the solution of certain saline substances. Sometimes two or more of these methods are combined to increase the effect. 3773. For the first method, the use of ice and snow is the most generally practised; and for this purpose they are preserved in ice-houses, or other proper places for cooling liquors in the summer, or during the whole year. A little ice, placed round a bottle of water or wine, in any convenient vessel (wood is the best material, as being the worst conductor), soon cools it to the desired degree ; and if the effect is to be increased, so as to freeze creams, fruit, &c., by breaking the ice into small pieces, or pounding it, and mixing common salt with it, the desired end will be accomplished. This method is employed by the confectioners. The principle upon which ice cools any liquor is, that it abstracts heat from every body surrounding it, till the temperature of the whole is equalised; and of course it melts itself in cooling other bodies, the heat which it takes from them being necessary to render it fluid ; this heat becomes latent in the melted ice. See " Heat," Book II. Chap. I. 3774. When ?ce is Mserf to coo? z«me, it will not be very effectual, if applied, as is sometimes the case, only to the bottom of the bottle ; for the coldest part of the liquid, being already at the bottom, cannot ascend; nor can the upper part, which is the wannest, change places to be cooled; therefore no motion can happen in the wine, and the cooling will therefore be very imperfect. To cool the wine effectually, it is necessary to plunge the whole bottle in ice ; but before this is done, it is proper to decant it into a fresh bottle for the following reason:— If there be any sediment in the wine that is of the same specific gravity, it will mix with it as if it had been shaken, from the up and down currents that always take place during the cooling. 3775. When ice cannot be procured, well-water forms a useful substitute to a certain degree. A well of about forty or fifty feet in depth constantly preserves the mean tem- perature of the country, and consequently is colder than the summer heat of the place; hence, if a paU of water be drawn, and a bottle of wine or other liquor be immediately placed in it, it may be cooled considerably. In London, where the heat of summer may be above 65°, or even 70°, the temperature of well-water will always be 50°; therefore by this alone, liquors may be sometimes cooled 12° or 15°. 3776. One of the most general and useful modes of cooling is by evaporation. "\ATien any liquid is converted into vapour, a certain quantity of heat to be combined with it is neces- sary for .this purpose, and the portion which rises in vapour abstracts caloric from the mass, which is consequently in proportion cooled. Any substance which is wetted with water, and kept in the air, will therefore be cooled by the evaporation of the water, and the more rapidly if it is held in the wind, because then the evaporation will be greater by the succession of particles of air each carrying off so much heat. Take two thermometers, and wet the bulb of one, and not the other; hold them in the air, and the mercury in that only which is wetted will fall, through the cold produced, as the bulb dries. If a liquid be used that evaporates more quickly than water, as spirit of wine, and still more, ether, the cold produced will be more considerable. Cooling by the wind is a method that can be employed only occasionally. If any part of the naked body, as the hand, be exposed to the wind, it will be cooled, because there is an evaporation from the surface. A practice among sailors, for telling which way a very gentle breeze blows in the night, is founded upon this foct. They wet a finger all over, and hold it above their head; the side that is most cooled is that which the wind blow's upon, and of course points to the quarter from whence it comes. Should, however, the current of wind be warmer than the body it blows against, the latter will be heated, as is the case with the hot winds from sandy deserts. - . ■ 3777. As an example of the various degrees of cold occasioned by the evaporation of dij- ferent substances, we may cite the result of some experiments made by JI. Cavallo, and 'described in the "Philosophical Transactions," 1781. A small stream of several liquids was poured upon the Inilb of a mercurial thermometer when the temper- ature of the alntosphci e, and consequently of I he thermometer, was at (14°. Water lowered the tlicrmometer to .MP : spirit of wine to 48° : spirit of turpentine to 01" ; olive, .md other ods that do not evaporate, did not affect the tlicrmometer; ether reduced the thermometer to 20° below the freezing point; and with a smaU