ON THE MAKING OF VINEGAR. Chap. VI. 665 3-54 Distilled vinegar is colourless, and of an odour somewhat different, but less aoreeab'e than that of' common vinegar. It may be preserved for any length of time ■without alteration, in close vessels. When exposed to a moderate heat, it evaporates completely, and without undergoing any change in its properties. By the action of severe cold the watery part congeals, and separates from the pure acetic acid, which may thus be obtained in the highest state of concentration. Chemists have also other modes of preparing the pure acid, but these are of a nature rather complicated. Distilled vinegar is only employed for pharmaceutical purposes and for perfumes ; for it would be too expensive in domestic economy, neither would its flavour be agreeable as a condiment. It is sometimes improperly called acetic acid, for the latter contains no water. 3755. Pure acetic acid is prepared from distilled vinegar. It has an extremely pungent odour. Its taste is eminently acid, and it excoriates and blisters the skin when applied to it. It is so volatile, that it is converted into vapour at a very moderate temperature without undergomg any change ; and its vapour is inflammable, and burns with a white lio-ht. "^It is pure acetic acid that gives sourness to every kind of vinegar -which consists of water, mucilage, and a certain quantity of this acid, greater or less according to its degree of sourness; and it is this which is always generated by the acetous fermentation. It exists ready formed in the juices of many plants, combined with potash and lime : but the quantity is never sufficient to render it available for domestic purposes. The strongest kind of common vinegar contains about five parts acetic acid in every hundred parts. By its flavour, odour, and volatility, it is easily distinguished form all other acids: when diluted with water, it is the same tiling as distilled vinegar ; its chemical con- stitution is, that it consists of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon ; the latter element in the proportion of 47 per cent., and the other two in the exact proportion necessary to form water : but we must not consider it as consisting of carbon and water ; for oxygen and hydrogen compose water, only -when they are conibined together in a certain pro- portion, without any other element. SuBSECT. 6. — Wood Vinegar. 3756. It was fonnerly thought that acetic acid could only be prepared from liquors which had undergone the acetous fermentation ; but it is now known that fermentation is not essential to its formation by art, since it can be procured by the destructive distil- lation of any vegetable matter, such as wood. But it must not be supposed that vinegar exists ready formed in wood, though we have stated this to be the case in small quan- tities in many sour plants. 37.57. The formation of wood vinegar depends upon principles which can he explained by chemistry, and furnishes an interesting instance of its application ; for it must appear ex- traordinary to those hitherto unacquainted with the fact, that an acid such as vinegar can be distilled from an insipid material like common wood. But the theory of it will be easily comprehended by those who have perused what we have said upon the component parts of vegetables, and the possibility of the conversion of one proximate principle into another. Vinegar or acetic acid consists of certain proportions of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon; these elements are contained in wood ; and it is obvious that if they could be detached from their combinations in the wood, and re-combined in that particular proportion requisite to constitute acetic acid, we should procure this liquid. Now this is effected simply by the application of a considerable heat to the wood confined in a closed vessel having a tube proceeding from it in the manner of a retort, or a distilling apparatus. In this, when placed in a furnace, the wood is decomposed into its elementary principles, which then re-combine in another manner; one of the products of this new,combination being acetic acid. The process is extremely simple, and is employed to a very great extent. Nor is this, although but lately put in practice for making vinegar for common use, a new discovery ; for it was known two centuries ago to Glauber, the chemist, whose name is attached to a well-known salt; and as this is a curious example of discoveries made and neglected, we may quote his account of wood vinegar in his work entitled " Miraculum Mundi;" " If the juice of wood be rectified, it may be used in the preparation of good medicines ; iu mechanic arts; in the making of many fair colours from the extraction of metals, minerals, and stones ; and for all things for which common vinegar is used; yea, far more comniodiously, because it much exceedeth common wine and beer vinegar in sharpness." Apparatus of a great variety of form have been constructed by various nianufa(;turers of wood vinegar for the purpose of producing it; but the principle of all is the same. The wood is put into a cylindrical iron retort laid horizontally, placed in brick-work, and with a fire beneath ; from this vessel proceeds a tube, which terminates in a worm placed in a cistern of cold water ; when the fire is lighted, and the wood heats, the water which