Chap. III. 821 CULINARY APPARATUS. the processes all accidents by cinders, ashes, or other things falling into the gravy are pre- vented, and that, instead of the kitchen being made very hot by a large fire, the heat from the roaster is not even felt; it is surprising that cooks have not been delighted with an invention that had so many advantages in its favour. Nevertheless, it must be admitted that many servants who know very well how to roast with a range would be at a loss at first to manage this machine properly : like the use of every new tool, they must have sagacity and patience enough to discover the best practice, or submit to be taught. 4679. Apparatus of an analoyous hind are at present made by variuus ironmongers, and termed roasters, which, though a departure from the best construction of Count Rum- ford's, are, however, an imitation of them, and depend upon his principles partly for the advantages they possess over a common oven. They are always square, and of cast-iron, containing a great deal of metal, and consequently expensive, though durable ; and they are usually connected with some other apparatus, as a hot plate, liot closet, &c. These, in modem kitchens, of which we shall give a few examples, are executed by manufac- turers in various forms, each having his own arrangements, and are better or worse, as the makers are more or less acquainted with the principles on which they ought to be constructed. Some of them, denominated roasters, are not so in fact, thei-e being no cir- culation of hot oiV within, and having merely an aperture in the door closed by a register, which does not answer the purpose. Others have been invented evidently without the maker understanding the use or intention of the circulation of air. In short, as each manufacturer describes his peculiar machine as his own invention, and as the public has no prototype to refer to for comparison, criticism is evaded. These machines really belong to a class which Count Rumford also invented and described in his " Essays," under the name of roasting ovens, which, however, perform vei^y tolerabl}% and are much em- ployed at present, being found extremely useful in economising both fuel and labour in public or large kitchens. Fig. 640. represents a general section of the roasting oven as it is now usually executed, in which many details are left out, and only suf- ficient is shown to explain the principle, abed is the body of the iron roaster, which is of a square form, larger or smaller, and set in the brickwork with a fire, e, below it, bd being the front of the roaster. The fire which burns on the bars e ascends round both sides of the roaster in a cavity left between it and the brickwork, passes over the top in a similar cavity, and then descends by the back of tlie roaster a b, in the direction of the arrows, making its exit by the horizontal flue, n, that goes at last in the perpen- dicular flue to the top of the house. It is to be observed that the fire is stopped from passing at once into this flue by the brickwork, o. p is the fire door, which is of iron, and kept shut, the fire bfing fed with air from the ash-pit, the door of which has a regulator. Within the oven abed are two shelves, /, g, also of iron, the lower one being near the bottom. For the circulation of hot air, when required, h is an aperture beneath the door of the roaster, having a register to close it when it is not wanted. When the hot air is to the air which is heated by the bottom of the roaster turns out at the furthest end of the lower shelf, as represented by the arrow, passes over the meat placed in its pan and gridiron, k, ascends through the vacancy occasioned by the upper shelf not reaching to the front, and finally passes off into the tube, II, which can be closed by a register, m, movable by a small rod coming to the front. This hot air then joins that from the fire, and passes into the flue. 4680. In the management of all the varieties of the roaster, care must be taken not to employ too much fire, — an error which those who are not accustomed to them are apt to commit at first, not imagining how small a fire is sufficient. It is likewise requisite fre- quently to sweep out, with a wire-handied brush, the flues round them, for which purpose proper openings are left by the bricklayer who sets them, if they are set in brick, or by the ironmonger, if the whole is made of cast-iron, which tliey frequently now are, and •which, if not the most economical mofle at first, is iierhaps so In the end, loss repairs being necessary. The inside of tlie roaster sho\ild be kept perfectly free from grease, otherwise the burning of this will give an unpleasant taste to the meat. Since the differ- ence between baking and roasting is, that the latter demands a circulation of hot air round the meat, whereas the former does not, it is obvious that if the apertures in the square 3 G 3 Fig. 640. circulate, this register m is opened, and