' CuAV. XVI. 305 GLASS. . degree of pvessui-e : and we mention this fact the more particularly, because many persons : suppose that some fluids can pass through glass under certain circumstances ; but this is : an error. What has led to this erroneous idea has probably been observing that drops of I liquids sometimes appear upon the outsides of vessels, and the supposition that they must 1 have passed through the glass : but in such cases these drops are generally precipitations . of water from the atmosphere upon the cold glass in the manner of dew, or some of the 1 liquid having got through the cork. Another valuable property of good glass is, that i it cannot be corroded by any liquid except one, the fluoric acid: hence vessels formed of iit are capable of containing all kinds of fluids, even acids, without any injury, which is 1 not the case with metal and other substances : and its transparency enables us to judge I of the state of the fluid within. As it is not acted upon by any ordinary liquids, it i imparts no taste of any kind to what is kept in it, and from its smooth unalterable surface i rt is easily cleaned, and its transparency enables us to see whether the vessels are perfectly : so. No other substance has these valuable properties, from which, however, it must be : admitted that its great brittleness is & considerable drawback. It may be observed that i glass, when well made, although so easily broken by mechanical violence, is absolutely 1 unchangeable by decomposition in the greatest length of time. It is therefore now used. I for enclosed medals and other objects that are placed in the foundations of buildings, for I the information of remote posterity. Many attempts have been made to destroy the ! brittleness of glass, and to render it malleable, but without the least success. Glass, I though brittle, is considerably hai-d, but not so much so but that it can be ground by > other substances harder than itself, as sand, emery, &c., and it is polished by using finer : and finer powders. This property renders it capable of admitting of much ornamental • work, by cutting in vessels of various kinds, which very much increases its beauty ; and i it may thus also be formed into lenses for spectacles, telescopes, and microscopes, instru- I ments which have enlarged the bounds of human knowledge to a most extraordinary degree. 1347. Glass is one of the most elastic bodies in nature. This elasticity may be well seen i in a bunch of spun glass used as ornament, and, on account of its great elasticity, it has 1 been even employed as a watch-spring. This elasticity may also be perceived in the well- 1 known musical glasses, which consist of goblets filled partly with water ; when the ' wetted finger is drawn over the edges of these glasses a musical note is produced, and the ' vibrations of the glass may be distinctly seen by means of the water. 1348. Silica and alkali are nut the only substances from which glass may be made. 1 Borax has long been known to be the most powerful flux for silica, and its high price in I this country is the only objection to its general use ; but a certain quantity of it is always I employed in the finer kinds of plate glass, and those other kinds of the manufacture that , are required to be absolutely free from specks and bubbles. Glass made with it flows I remarkably thin, and fit to be cast into a mould. In consequence of various experiments I made lately to improve the glass for optical instruments, boracic acid has been substituted I for alkali, and glass has been made of that and silica, which is more free from imper- t fections than flint glass. The composition of some made by Mr. Faraday is boracic acid ;24, silica 16, protoxide of lead 112. Sect. V. VARIOUS KINDS OF GLASS IN COMMON USE. 1349. There are several different kinds of glass in common use, manufactured for ■ various purposes. I. Flint glass; 2. Window glass ; 3. Plate glass ; 4. Bottle or common I gi'cen glass. We shall consider each of them separately. 1350. Flint glass derives its name from having been made originally from flints calcined ; and ground, and then fused with alkali. Flint, it must be observed, consists wholly of i siliceous earth. But it is now found that fine vehite sand, which consists of small grains i of quartz, also siliceous, answers the purpose better, and the flints are laid aside, although 1 the name is retained. The very white sand found at Alum Bay, in the Isle of Wight, ; and at Lynn, in Norfolk, are made use of instead. Flint glass is the most beautiful kind, ;and is that which is always used where cutting is required. It is distinguished from the I other kinds of glass by having in it a certain proportion of oxide of lead, to which it 1 owes some of its most valuable properties, particularly its greater density, by which it 1 refracts the light more strongly, and consequently exhibits more beautifully the blue, red, ; and yellow rays in cut ornaments. It is also softer than other glass, which renders it ' easier to cut and to polish. 1351. Every manufacturer has some particular ideas respecting what he thinks the best j proportion for his materials; but the usual mixture for flint glass is, fine white sand 120 1 parts; well purified pearlash 40; litharge, or red lead, 35 parts; nitre, and a small quan- I tity of the black oxide of manganese, 13. Some flint glass analysed by Mr. Faraday ! gave, in lOO parts, silica 51-93-, oxide of lead 33-38, potash 13-77, with minute portions of I other substances. X