211 liHAP. VI. JAPANNING AND VARNISHING. iilding, useful wliere durability is not required, and is that -which is used so profusely at rresent in our paper hangings. Silver leaf is prepared in the same manner as that of gold, uat it is liable to tarnish, except it be well secured by varnish. It' covered with a trans- aarent vellow varnish, it has much the appearance of gold. Japanncr's gilding is where maments are drawn in gold upon japanned work, and is often seen in folding screens, iiad cabinets, &c. The ornaments are formed by a camels' hair pencil, with japauners' gold i:ze, made by boiling linseed oil with gum animi, and a little vermilion. When the size 11 nearly dry, gold powder or gold leaf is applied. It is to be understood, that in all cases hhere gold has been fixed on by means of linseed oil, it will bear being washed without pnming off. i 991. Burnished, or water gilding, is much more difficult ; and as it cannot bear being eetted, is only fit for work to be always kept within doors. For this method of gilding, lee wood is first covered with four or five coats of whiting and size ; and that the gilding ic.ould be perfect, it is necessary that there should be a sufficient body of whiting. When eese are dry, they are laid over with a coat of gold size made of Armenian bole, a little aax, and some parchment size. When the size is dry, a portion of the surface is wetted eentifully with clear water and a soft brush, and a leaf of gold is dexterously applied, so : almost to float on the water, when it instantly settles down and adheres to the size, rreat care must be taken not to suffer any of the water to come over the gold, or a stain il U be produced. When the whole is cpvered with gold leaf, the elfect is what the IJders call matt, or the natural colour of gold not burnished. Such parts as are required Ihe burnished are rubbed over with a burnishing tool of agate. Ornaments executed rrtly matt, and partly burnished, have a very rich effect, which is seen in most picture mmes. ,1992. We have stated that burnished gilding cannot be cleaned with water, though oil gold my; but the matt portion of water gilding is so like oil gold as not to be distinguished by ; inexperienced eye : and it may be very desirable to know, in that case, by which of I'5 two processes it has been executed, with a view to cleaning it when soiled by flies or tiaerwise. This may be ascertained by observing in some crack or crevice whether the Idd is laid on a coat of whiting ; and if there be no other method, a small scratch with a itife may be made in some unimportant part to ascertain the fact. On account of the ppossibility of washing water gilding without injury, it is necessary to take great care pprotect it from flies, or other causes of soiling it, particularly in the summer season, by vvering it over with some fabric of threads woven like a very fine net, as it is observed lat flies instinctively avoid any thing in the shape of a net. Frames which have been eecuted in water gilding are sometimes required to be regilt: this cannot be done with- I; taking off the whole of the whiting, and commencing the process again, which is ex- >3sive. When this is done, the frames may be either re-gilt in the water or in the oil mner ; and as the last is much the cheapest, it is sometimes preferred. We have ob- vved that oil gildmg cannot be burnished. CHAP. V. BRONZING. 1993. Bronzing is a method of colouring wood or plaster of Paris, so as to imitate bronze, tst, the article is to be painted of a dark colour, such as bronze acquires when it has im very long exposed to the air, or when buried under ground. This colour is produced ^grinding a mixture of Prussian blue, verditer, and spruce ochre, in oil. What is ieed bronze poivder, sold in the shops, is now to be applied, just before the oil paint is We dry, to the prominent parts, where the metal is supposed to have acquired some ixe by being rubbed against. The bronze powder may be rubbed on by a ball of cotton [>bl, or in a similar manner. Bronzing has the advantage of wearing well, keeping uin, and giving effect to other colours. CHAP. VI. JAPANNING AND VARNISniNG. 994. Jajmnning is a very hard kind of varnishing that derives its name from being an klation of what we see on the cabinets originally brought from the island of Japan. i)9.5. The true japan, as practised in Japan and China, is produced by a kind of liquor ryarnish peculiar to those countries ; and it is said, that it is of a poisonous nature, and larious to the persons using it. It is the juice of a tree which has the appearance of P 2