Book XIII, 892 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 5060. Stewed soles. — 1 ake tlie fillets of Boles (the Hoshy parts on both sides of the flsh removed are so named), rub thein over with beaten egg; and strew on tliem, fniely chopped, .ind mixed togi-thcr, parsley eschalot a little thyme, and button mushrooms. When covereil with these, roll the lillets round and retain them in that position with a piece of thread. Fry them of a light brown ; drain the fat from them, and keep them hot. 1 he sauce should consist of the yolks of two boiled eggs, pounded witli a little butter and llour ; dissolve tins in veal consomme over a gentle fire, and when of a proper consistence, add some cavice, lemon- juice, and cayenne pepper. Pour this sauce into the dish, and arrange the fried fillets. 5001. John Dory.—This fish is best boiled and served with lobster or shrimp sauce ; but if brought from a distance, and rather stale, it should then be marinated in oil, salt, and pepper, and afterwards broiled ; it then requires Dutch or Quin's sauce, with melted butter. 5062. Crimped skate is to be boiled in salt and water, to which some vinegar may be added. When the pieces are of unequal size, the thicker may be put in before the others, that they may be done together. Shrimp sauce is the usual appendage. 5063. Skate fried. — Divide pieces of skate in fillets, and dry them on a clean cloth : beat the yolk and white of an egg thoroughly together, and dip the pieces of fish into it, and then into fine bread-crumbs. Fry them in hot lard or oil till delicately brown ; lay them to drain on a sieve ; garnish with crisp parsley; serve with caper sauce with an anchovy in it. 5064. Salmon must be boiled with the same precaution as directed for turbot. On account of its thickness, it is more equally dressed when split, or cut into moderately-sized pieces. When boiled, it is accompanied with lobster or shrimp sauce. Put some salt into the water ; when it boils, take ofi" the scum ; boil it very gently. Salmon requires almost as much boiling as meat, viz. a quarter of an hour to a pound offish ; but the thickness must be considered. 5065. Salmon broiled. — Cut slices of salmon an inch and a half thick ; marinate them in oil, and have a clear fire, and the gridiron rubbed over with lard. Turn the salmon on both sides, as in broiling meat. 500G. Fn'id salmon may be eaten with a sauce composed of finely chopped eschalots, catsup, and vinegar, highly seasoned with cayenne. To these, fried smelts, when in season, form an elegant garnish. 5067. Mackarel may be plain boiled, but caution must be used that they do not boil too violently, as they are easily broken; when the roes are very large, especially the hard, they will frequently be underdone when the fish are suSiciently : a small aperture made in the belly, with slow boiling, will remedy this inequality. They are served up with parsley and fennel sauce. This is best prepared by washing these herbs well, and chopping them un- boiled, when they are to be added to the butter while melting, and allowed to simmer for a couple of minutes. In this manner the sauce wUl be strongly impregnated with the flavour of the herbs, and also come up beautifully green. 5068. Mackarel, broiled. — The fish should be split down the back, and a little salad oil be laid on the inner surface with a feather, to prevent it sticking to the gridiron, and to retain the salt and pepper with which it must be seasoned. Serve with parsley and fennel sauce, or with boiled green gooseberries. The acid flavour is given sometimes by the juice of lemon squeezed on the fish at table. 5069. Fillets of mackarel fried. — Take the fillets of four mackarel, remove the skin, dip them in beaten egg, strew on them some chopped parsley and fennel, and afterwards some bread-crumbs ; fry them. For the sauce, pound the soft roes with some thick cream, which afterwards pass through a tamis. Melt some butter with a little flour and some veal consomme, stir in the strained roe and cream, season with salt and cayenne, and then add some catsup, or a little cavice and lemon-juice, and while hot pour it over the fillets. .5070. Oilier ways of dressing mnckarrl When mackarel are abundant, choose a dozen with soft rocs, which t.ake out aiid preserve. Six of the fish ni.iy be boiled in as much water as will cover them, putting in some allspice, a bay-le.if, whole pepper and salt; when done, take them out .and pl.ace them regularly in ,i deep dish. Add a cupful of strong vinegar to the liquor in which they have been boiled, and while hot pour it over them. They are to be eaten cold, as pickled salmon. The other six may be nearly split on the inside. Contrive to keep tlie sides extended by a S|)linter of wood, and when sprinkled with salt and pepper, let them hang a day in the sun ; afterwards remove them into the shade. In this state, when brushed over with a little salad oil, they ma) be broiled and eaten witli caper sauce. The reserved soli roes will make patties in the following manner: I'ound them with a fourth part of their weight of butter, .and .add sutficient cream to give them a proper consistence; season this well with salt, black and cayenne pepper; distribute it into the patties, and gradually bake them. 5071. Bed mullet are not to be emptied, but broiled as fresh as possible in buttered paper, and served very hot. There is but one sauce for them, and this is made at table by mashing the liver on your plate with some oiled butter, likewise very hot, cayenne pepper, and the squeeze of a lemon. 5072. Herrings must be perfectly fresh : the soft roes are esteemed most delicate. They are to be broiled, and sent to table as hot as possible. Their sauce is melted butter, inr corporated with mustard, salt, and pepper. In order to eat them properly, cut oflf the head and tail, pinch the middle, and at the head-part draw out the bones. SuBSECT. 2. — Frc.ih-ivalcr Fish. 5073. Trout.—The sooner a trout is dressed after it is caught the better : its firmness is improved by crimping. A large trout should be boiled in salt and water, but not with ^^ne-