ON FOOD. 482 Book VII. Edible Leguminous wild Plants. 2G29. Sea peas (Pisum maritimum. Linn.). — These peas have a bitterish disagreeable taste, and are tliere- fore rejected wlien more pleasant food is to bo got. In the year 1555, however, when tliere was a great famine in England, the seeds of this plant were used as food, by which, according to Turner, thousands of families were preserved. 'I'he bitter of these seeds migiit in all probability be removed by steeping and kiln-drying, as in preparing for the mill peas that are to be split. 2G30. Wild vetches {Lalhyra vicia and ervmn, Linn.) The seeds of all the British species of these genera may bo used as peas. They are found in hedges, woods, and corn fields, and are most prolific in dry seasons. Wild Plants that may be used as Salads. 2631. Ladies' smock (Cardaniinc pralensis. Linn.).— The leaves of this plant afford an agreeable acrid salad, greatly resembling the American cress. 2632. Stonecrop, or orpine (Srdum telephium, Linn.). — The leaves are eaten in salads like those of purslane, to which the French consider it equal. 2633. Sea bindweed [Convolvulus soldanella. Linn.). — This plant abounds on the tea coasts, where the inhabitants gather the tender stalks, and pickle them. It is said to have rather a cathartic quality. 2634. Dandelion (Leontodon Taraxacum, Linn.) The dandelion is a hardy perennial, a native of Britain, well known among gardeners as a troublesome weed, but which may be used as salad: and the root, as a substitute for coHee, is much used by the poor at Gottingen. The French sometimes eat the young roots, and also the blanched leaves, wliich considerably resemble those of endive, with thin slices of bread and butter. It may be stored in cellars, like chicory, for producing a winter salad. Though regularly produced in the London market, it is seldom or never cultivated, being generally found in sufficient luxuriance by the sides of hedges and ditches. Its bitterness in this state is too powerful to allow it to be a pleasant food. It is more useful as a medicine, being a tonic, and affording relief in hepatic complaints of persons long resident in warm climates. 263.'>. Sweet Cicely (Scandix odorala. Linn.)— The leaves of this plant used to be employed like those of chervil. The green seeds ground small, and used with lettuce and other cold salads, give them a warm agreeable taste. The smell of the plant attracts bees ; and tlie insides of empty hives are often rubbed with it before placing them over newly-cast swarms, to induce them to enter. 2636. Bucks/torn plantain, or star qf the eart/i (Plantago Coronopus, Linn.) This is a hardy annual, a native of Britain, found in sandy soils. It is a low spreading plant, with linear pinnated leaves and round stalks, producing short spikes of starry flowers from May to August. It was formerly cultivated as a salad herb, and used like the common cress, but is now neglected in English gardens, perhaps on account of its rank and disagreeable smell. 2637. One eye daisy (Chrusanthemtcm leucanthemum, Linn.) This is a perennial plant, common in dry pastures. The leaves which spring immediately from the root are obovate, with footstalks; from these a stem arises, from two to three feet high, furnished with oblong pinnatifid leaves. The flowers are large, with yellow disks and white rays, and appear in June and July. The plants are easily propagated by dividing the roots after the flowering season. To produce succulent tender leaves, it should be placed in soft, rich, moist earth. Sect. XV.' POISONOUS PLANTS THAT GROW WILD IN BRITAIN. 2638. Every gardener should be acquainted with the following plants, that he may point them out, and enable such persons as are in searcli of edible wild plants to avoid them. Atropa Belladonna Datura Stramonium Hyoscy.imus niger Solanum dulcamara Solanum nigrum Lactuca virosa Apium graveolens (The two last plants,.in a culti- vated state, afford lettuce and celery ; but wild, in hedges and ditches, they are poisonous) Conium maculatum Professor Burnett observes th.at. Lately, seventeen convicts at Woolwich were poisoned by citing the roots of tknanthe crocata, wliich grows wild near Woolwich, and four of them died. Other similar instances are recorded in the Reports of the IMedico-Botanical Society. A variety of QJnanthe, though dangerous when wild, is innocuous when improved by cultivation, and is eaten at Angers in France. Chelidonium majus Cicuta virosa Colchicum autumnale QSnanthe crocata The leaves of Prunus Lauro-cera- sus, though the berries are used in puddings Aconitum Napellus Aconitum lycoctonum Aetata spicata Rhus Toxicodendron .ffithusa cynapium Digitalis purpurea Helleborus fetidus Juniperus Sabina Scrophularia aquatica Asclepias syriaca Bryonia dioica Euphorbia Lathyrus Euphorbia amygdaloides Mercurialis perennis IVIercurialts annua Periploca Graeca Veratrum album. Sect. XVI. ESCULENT FUNGI. 2639. Fungus is the botanical name for a very numerous tribe of plants, TiThicli are dis- tinguished from other vegetables, not only by their singular forms, but by their chemical composition, yielding, upon analysis, not only the usual components of the vegetable kingdom, carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, but likewise a large proportion of nitrogen, by •which they approach more nearly to the nature of animal flesh. Dr. Darwin observed long ago that all the mushrooms cooked at our tables, as well as those used for ketchup, possessed an animal flavour; and soup enriched by mushrooms only has sometimes been supposed to contain meat. 2640. In this numerous tribe, a large proportion are poisoyious, a few are wholesome, and a vast number are still unknown as to their action upon the human constitution. The poisonous and wholesome species are often very similar; and as it is difficult to distinguish between many of them, even by botanical characters, the use of wild mushrooms is very unsafe. The few that it is customary to eat and to cultivate are known to those who are in the habit of collecting them, and no one should venture upon eating a species they do not understand. It is a remarkable circumstance that certain species that are eaten as