596 Book VIH. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Fig. 561. clmnBetn the beer <s perceived before it lias gone too far, ,ind wlien but a Bm.ill quantity of acetous acid or vuiegar is lornied, it is possible to neutralise this, and to prevent for a time the formation of more 1 he substances proper for neutralisiuB acids are alkalies ,ind alkaline earths. The alkali usually em- ployed for destroying the acidity of beer is carbonate oi soda ; .ind c.-irbonate of/f»«c is the only alkaline carlh made use of. If carbonate of soda is used, it should be added very gradually, otherwise the eftervesceiicc will be too violent; its .iction may be observed by putting a little to some of the beer in a glass. The quantity must depend upon the degree of acidity of the beer ; too much will communicate a very unpleasant taste. Marble reduced lo hue powder (which is carbonate ofliine) answers better ; it dissolves slowly in the beer, of course giving out its carbonic acid ,is slowly. The lime dissolved forms with the acetous acid of the beer, acetate of lime, which is slightly bitter, but harmless. There is another advantage in marble powder, which is, that there is no danger of putting too much, for no more lime will be dissolved th.in the acetous acid can take up, and the remainder will lie at the bottom of the cask without producing any effect. Egg shells, and pounded oyster shells, have been recommended for this purjiose ; and they answer equally well, for these substances are likewise carbonate of lime, and ex.ictly of the siune composition as marble. 33f)8. The machines now so much used for raising beer Jrom the casks in the cellar, by the working of a piston and handle in tlie bar of a public-house, are a great imjirovement; they prevent great waste from spilling and from pilfering, and might be advantageously employed in large domestic establishments ; but care should be taken that their pipes are not made of lead, since, when that is the case, and beer should remain in them, it would dissolve some of the lead, and produce a poisonous liquid. Pipes of pewter are safe. 3369. The late Mr. Br amah had a patent for a method of keeping beer or other liquors from the contact qf air while on draught, which deserves notice among the methods of preserving beer. This invention was intended for public-houses of extensive custom, and was combined w ith the plan of elevating the liquor as it was w.nnted from the cellar by mechanical means, which is now practised so generally by other contrivances. To effect this purpose, a cylindrical cask of wooA, Jig. 561., was fitted with a piston, secured like tliatof a steam- engine ; and on the top of the piston rod was placed a box lieavily loaded with stones, so as to press the piston down with force to the bottom of the vessel. The liquor was forced into this cylindrical cask, beneath the piston, from another vessel by a small . forcing pump, till the piston was elevated to the upper part of the cask, and then the ' weight at top, re-acting on it, forced it to ascend in the jiipes to the bar of the public- house, where, on turning a cock, it was drawn as required. The piston in tliis appa- ratus, being always in contact with the liquor, preserved it eifectually from the air till drawn off to the dregs. The chief difBculty in the construction of this apparatus would be the getting the piston to fit tight against the sides of the cylinder. It is evident that a common cask would not answer, not being perfectly cylindrical. Means have been invented of late for turning casks inside by a hithe prepared for the purpose, and have jp been used in some manufactories ; and the cylinder or cask might be prepared in this ^ way, or it might be made sufTiciently round and smooth by a good joiner -, but a cooper is not used to work of this kind. Some cork fitted round the edge of the piston would probably keep it sufficiently air-tight. The round form is not necessary, square or any other shape would answer. 3370. A method of preserving malt liquors in the cellars was patented by Mr. Wynn, and is now sold by Thorn and Pedley, Castle Street, Leicester Square, London. This consists in an apparatus for generating carbonic acid gas from marble and sulphuric acid ; this gas is tlien conducted into tiie upper part of the vessel from which the malt liquor Is drawn for consumption, and the space in the vessel, left vacant by drawing the beer, is kept constantly filled with the carbonic acid gas, and of course all the common air is excluded. Such beer or ale will continue to the last as brisk as it was at the beginning of the draught. 3371. A va-y useful contrivance has lately been made, by which one may see. by simple inspection, how much liquor of any kind has been drawn from a cask, and how much remains in it, wliich can save all the trouble of gauging. A glass tube, fig. 562., is fixed in a perpendicular position, and connected with the lower part of the cask ; and it is obvious that the surface of the liquor in the cask and in the tube will .always be exactly level. This tube is graduated so as to show the quantity of liquor at any time in the cask. To graduate the tube, a certain quantity of liquor or water is put into the cask, and a mark made on the tube where the fluid stands ; then another similar qu.intity is added, and another mark made on the tube; and in this manner, by pouring in equal quantities into the cask, and marking the place where the fluid st.mds in the tube, a scale is got on the tube which will correspond with the equal quantities in the cisk. 3372. For transferring beer or other liquor from one vessel to another, a syphon is sometimes found conve- nient, as by it the liquor may be decanted without disturbing the sediment, and also the liquor can thus be transferred without making any aperture in the lower part of the vessel. A syphon is a bended pipe, whose legs are of unequal lengths. For common purposes the syphon of the form a, fig. 563., may be employed. To use it the short end must be placed in the liquor to be decanted, and by sucking with the mouth, or other method, through the other end, it must be raised in the tube so as to run out; and it will then continue to run of itself, until the vessel is emptied. But as sucking Jjy the mouth is on many accounts inconvenient, the same cfl'ect may be produced by inverting the syphon, and filling it with the liquor; then keeping the two ends stopped with tlio finger or otherwise, introduce the short end into the liquor; unstop the ends of the syphon, and the liquor will flow. Some- ., times the syphon is made of the form 4, with an additional small \\v. tube to suck out the air by at first; a cock at c is then necessary, N to shut till the tube is full, and it is then opened to allow the liquor to flow. Syphons of this kind are much emjdoyed by brewers and distillers. In the syphon it is essential that the leg through which the liquor flows shall be longer than the other, as the whole action depends upon this ; for it is he greater weight of the fluid in tlie longer leg that overbalances that of the shorter leg. Small glass syphons are sold of both forms, a and b, and are found extremely useful for decanting manv liquids, where it is desirable to draw the fluid from the top instead of the bottom, and where any disturbance would be injurious. Fig. 562. Sect. IX. FINING BEER. 3373. Wien malt liquor, propcrh/ made, is left to itself, all the footing imptirities ijcnerally subside in lime, and the fluid remains clear and transparent. But sometimes this does not happen, or not sufficiently soon. In this case it is necessary to employ some method of