' PREFACE. vii \Work itself, as to render it superfluous to enlarge upon it here. The >3ubject of "Warming is not so well understood, even by men of science : nand though the limits of the work precluded the possibility of entering so t'fuUy into the subject as the Editor could have wished, yet he trusts that his 03pinions, being the result of long experience, will be regarded as sound and itrustworthy. Ventilation is now beginning to be considered important; but it is evi- (flent that to practise this with effect, a knowledge of the theory is indis- ipensable. Artificial illumination is more witliin the power of persons of little science, but valuable improvements, as abeady remarked, are seldom Iperfected by them alone. In this part, the Historical Account of Lamps, aand the description of the most important Appai'atus for Artificial Light, nmay claim some attention on the score of originality. The subject of ordinary Fui-niture is better known ; and indeed it may aappear to some little necessary to have collected so much matter in this Itbranch of the work : but the Editor was of opinion that collecting in one \work the vai'ious articles of household furnitui-e would be useful to those mho are beginning house-keeping, to whom the greatest part of the work iis particularly addressed. < The subject of Food is one of the most important and interesting in [Domestic Economy, and can never be treated satisfactorily without alluding \to chemical and physiological science. The Editor has endeavoured to steer nil medium coui'se between what might be considered as scarcely intelligible tto the general readei", and the mere form of receipts. He has endea- wom'ed, indeed, to tempt the reader to an investigation of what has hitherto libeen much neglected by the public in general, and left almost solely in the lihands of medical men. On the subject of Beverages, many erroneous oopinions prevail, and health demands that it should be better understood, nt may, perhaps, be supposed that he is an alarmist with respect to adul- tterations, and that he has followed the example of the author of " Death in tthe Pot; " but he has carefully avoided stating any thing for which he had mot sufficient authority; and he has, in many cases, suppressed what he bbelieved to be true, lest it should appear to throw some doubt upon the rest. The description of the materials for the cook, and the philosophy of the (■2ulinary art, have been kept distinct from the mere practice of cookery, libecause many might be desirous of understanding the first without wishing ito go into the details of the latter; and likewise because the Editor was 'Ideficicnt in the practical knowledge which has been supplied by a lady, whose experience in this part of Domestic Economy enabled her to treat it with propriety. And here it may be proper to state exactly what por- itions of the work were executed by the late Mi-s. Parkes. To her are due ilthc whole of Book VL, "On the Duties of Household Servants;" Books XII., XIII., and XIV., " On English and French Cookery; " and Book >XXVI., " On the Preservation of Health with Hints on Domestic Medicine," I the latter being principally supplied by her son, Mr. Parkes, a surgeon, and 'the article on "Bathing" by the Editor. For all the rest of the work 'the present Editor is alone responsible. "With regard to Dress, he has contented himself with describing the usual A 4