C52 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. exceptions to this general rule, and flourish most in hot shallow soils, on a limestone or sandstone. In the cyder counties, as Herefordshire, Gloucestershire, Somersetshire, Devonshire, &c., apple trees for cyder are planted in orchards; but in some places they occasionally grow in hedge-rows, and in pastures moderately sheltered ; and these might easily be multiplied in many parts of the kingdom. The fittest for such purpose are those which grow tall so as not to overshadow the crops. 3672. Sea air, and situations exposed to high winds, are unfavourable to the apple. In the cyder countries, where the climate is more certain than in some others, it is the custom to plant but a few good sorts, and not to mix above one or two sorts together in the making of cyder. 3673. The principal part of the cyder made in England is manufactured by the growers of the fruit, though much of what is sold in London is made by professional men, who, like brewers, devote themselves to this branch of industry, and who conduct their operations more or less on scientific principles. The varieties of apples which are cultivated for this purpose in the various fruit districts of this kingdom, are extremely numerous. It is not often, however, that the maker of cyder has it in his power to choose the fruit which he em- ploys, as in most cases he is restricted to the produce of his own orchard; but as he may' occasionally have an opportunity of purchasing fruit, the following particulars will be of use in directing his choice. No juice can be depended upon for making good cyder that does not possess at the same time body and flavour ; the former depends on the juice contained in the pulp or flesh of the fruit, and the latter on the juice (probably an essential oil) contained in the external skin or peel, and in the seeds or pips. The apples the most agreeable to the palate are those which abound in a juice at once sweet and acidulous, whereas those which answer the best for cyder have the juice both sweet and acerb, with little mixture of acid. Hence the best cyder fruits, with few exceptions, are too astringent to be fit for the table. 3674. Mr. Knight supposed, that a particular variety of apple, as well as of most other plants, has only a limited duration ; and th.it those plants which have been propagated by grafting from one stock partake in some degree of the same natural duration of life, in their youth, maturity, and decay, and hence he accounts for the apparent decline of some of the most valuable varieties, as the golden pippin, and red streak, which were favourite old cyder fruits. He conceived therefore that since no variety can be preserved for an indefinite period, that it is absolutely necessary to seek for new varieties by sowing the seeds, and selecting such plants so produced as possess valuable properties. Though the utility of the latter practice is acknowledged, some persons doubt with respect to the validity of his theory of the decline of a variety from the cause which he assigns, and rather attribute any decay which may appear to climate or other circumstances. However this may be, it is certain that some varieties of apples formerly abundant are now propagated with difficulty, and are affected with diseases formerly less frequent. 3675. Two qualities are particularly required in the fruit proper for cyder. One is the presence of the substance called tannin, or tannic acid, without which, neither cyder nor perry are capable of keeping beyond the first summer. This, although indicated by the acerb flavour of the fruit, is still more correctly demonstrated by pressing the juice out of an apple or pear, and then dropping in a solution of glue or isinglass : the tannic acid combines with the gelatine, forming a precipitate, the quantity of which indicates that of the acid. The other quality is the specific gravity of the juice ; if that of water be considered as 1000, that of apple juice will be found to vary from I'O.'iO to 1-080, and the greater the specific gravity of the juice, the greater will be the strength of the liquor which it affords. 3676. The juice of apples consists of a considerable quantity of mucilage, saccharine matter of the same kind as that of grapes, malic acid, acetic acid, tannin, a fermenting matter, and much water. The parenchyma, or cellular membrane of the pulp, in which the above is contained, constitutes about two per cent, of the whole mass. The seeds con- tain a bitter principle, and an essential oil. 3677. When the fruit is gathered, each variety should be laid apart, and formed into heaps a foot or more in thickness, in order to maturate or become mellow. It is not ne- cessary, for this purpose, that they should be laid up under cover, or even protected in any degree from the weather, except during severe frosts ; for apples in a loft, unless laid very thin, and carefully attended to, are apt to contract a musty taint which commuicatcs itself to the cyder. The process of mellowing has this farther advantage besides maturing the juice, that the texture is greatly softened; and thus the operation of grinding and pressing are more easily and effectually performed. The mellowing may, in general, be known to be completed, when the texture has so far given way that the thumb may without difficulty be thrust through one of the apples of an average quantity selected for the trial ; it should not, however, be carried too far, as is sometimes the case. Previous to grinding, the fruits should be carefully looked over : those which are rotten are to be rejected ; and those which are partially so should have the decayed part cut out. 3678. The next operation is grinding or mashing the apples into what is technically called pommage: by this the fruit is reduced as nearly as possible to a uniform consistence, in such ai manner that the rinds and kernels may be scarcely discernible from the general