STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. Book XX. 1044 Another. — Warm in three separate vessels two ounces of sweet almonds blanched and pounded, three drachms of fine white wax, and three draclims of spermaceti. When these are melted, pour them together, and stir them well with a wooden spatula, and throw them into some water ; keep stirring in the water, which you must change frequently till the ixjmade becomes very white. Keep it in rose water, or spring water, which must be changed every day. Liquid almond paste.— Mix six pounds of honey, six pounds of paste of bitter almonds, twelve ounces of oil of bitter almonds, and twenty-six yolks of eggs. The honey should be heated apart and strained ; then the almond paste kneaded with it; and lastly, the eggs and almond oil by degrees. 6213. Bean Jloiir is said to he an excellent detergent for the hands. Take half a peck of white and well-dried split horse beans ; having separated them from theii- shells, or skins, beat them as fine as possible in an iron mortar, or have them well ground in a mill. Pass the powder through a fine sieve. About four pounds of powder will be ob- tained from the above quantity of beans. 6214. Paste for chapped hands. — Wash a quarter of a pound of fresh hogs'lard in water, beat it up with the yolk of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much almond paste, or fine oatmeal, as will work it into a paste. 6215. Almond oil is procured by expression from bitter almonds, or from old Jordan almonds, by heat. Cold-drawn almond oil is obtained in the same way from fresh Bar- bary almonds. It keeps longer than the common oil. 6216. Milk of almonds is used to bathe the face, and is made thus. Bruise some sweet almonds in a mortar, and add water by slow degrees in the proportion of a pint to twenty or thirty almonds ; put to this a piece of sugar, to prevent the separation of the oil from the water, rubbing assiduously. Pass the whole through a flannel, and perfume it with orange-flower water. BOOK XX. STILL-ROOM, XWD THE MANNER OF FITTING UP A DOMESTIC LABORATORY. 6217. Time«was, when in the still-room " strong waters," " distilled waters," and " cor- dials," were drawn and dispensed as specifics for maladies to guests and dependents, as well as to poorer neighbours. Many of these preparations have gone out of use, and others may be purchased mo*e conveniently, and even cheaper, than they could be made at home. We are far from recommending the complete revival of this part of domestic economy; yet we cannot, with propriety, omit the still-room altogether, since it may be extremely useful on occasion to certain families residing in the country, at a distance from medical practitioners, and where economy is an object; but the information we give is rather with the same view as that with which we have explained the manufacture of spirits, and not to teach accurately the art of preparing what is now seldom attempted at home. We might observe, however, that a still-room might be more elegantly consi- dered as a species of chemical laboratory, or a private culinarjf room where certain pro- cesses may be carried on that woidd not agree with the bustle of the kitchen, and where the superiors of the family might make experiments and trials without infringing upon the convenience of the cook, or interrupting her regular avocations. With this view it might be fitted up in a very neat and useful, though not extensive, plan, with conve- nient apparatus, so as to furnish a source of amusement and instruction ; and we shall proceed to describe the principal apparatus required for such an apartment, as well as to explain some processes which are likely to be performed there, and the usual terms used in speaking of them. All this may, to some persons, appear to be encroaching too far upon the province of the chemist and his laboratory ; but it should be recollected that many processes in domestic economy are stricllij chemical, and that it is only by bor- rowing a little from practical chemistry that they can be improved. AVe wish to see our improved still-room become the dome.'itic laboratory; in which, likewise, such operations as pickling, preserving, &c., may be carried on by the housekeeper and still-room maid. Adjoining to this might be the medicine closet. Some of the principal operations in the still-room were, the making of liqueurs and the preparation of distilled waters. The first-we have already described in the Chapter on Spirituous Liquors, Book VIIL Chap. VIII. ; and we shall presently treat of what are called distilled waters, and the essential oils of plants, wliich contain the perfume or