475 Chap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. Garden thyme {Thymus vulgaris. Linn.) is a native of the south of Europe ; it is a shrubby evergreen about a foot in height, and is more delicate in its aromatic flavour than wild thyme ; its young leaves and tops are used in stuffings, soups, and sauces. Another smaller species, lemon thyme, {T. citriodorus. Linn.) has a strong perfume, like the rind of lemons, and is used for some particular dishes. A variety called Frankincense thyme is cultivated in Norfolk. Thyme was used by the Romans to flavour cheese. SuBSECT. 2. — Sage (Salvia officinalis. Linn.), 2563. Sage is originally a native of the south of Europe, but has been long an inhabitant of our gardens. There are several sorts, as the red, the green, the small leaved, and the broad leaved balsamic. Its chief use in cookery is in stuffings and sauces, to correct the too great lusciousness of strong meats, as goose, duck, or pork : its taste is warm, bitterish, and aromatic, qualities which depend upon an essential oil. The red has the most agree- able and fullest flavour for this purpose; the green is the next; the two last are used in medicine. Sage had great reputation formerly on account of its medicinal qualities ; but at present these do not appear to be much regarded. It possesses, however, some aromatic and astringent powers ; and a decoction, or sage tea, is found serviceable in debility of the stomach, and in nei-vous cases. The. Chinese sometimes prefer it, it is said, to their own tea. It is useful as a gargle in sore throat, and it is grateful and cooling. The broad leaved balsamic species is the most efficacious for its medical qualities, and as a tea herb. It is also introduced into cheese. SuBSECT. 3.—Mint (Mentha, Linn.). 2564. TTiere are several species of mint that grow wild in Britain, found chiefly in low moist situations, and they are likewise cultivated. They are all distinguished by a well- known and peculiar aromatic flavour, and some are employed in culinary preparations; others yield a highly odoriferous and pungent essential oil by distillation. None of them are in the least poisonous; but they are very different both in appearance and their uses. Spearmint (Mentha viridis. Linn.) — This is the common mint cultivated in our gardens and employed in different processes of cookery, as having the most agreeable flavour; the leaves are sometimes boiled in certain dishes, and afterwards withdrawn. They like- wise form an ingredient in soups, and are sometimes used in spring salads. They are also dried for the winter, and in this manner lose none of their flavour. Mint is stomachic and antispasmodic, and is useful in flatulencies; these qualities probably led, indepen- dently of its agreeable flavour, to its universal use in pea soup, in which it is a valuable ingredient. Peppermint (M. piperita. Linn.).—-This is cultivated entirely for the essential oil distilled from it. Its taste is stronger, warmer, and more pungent than spearmint, and leaves a sort of coolness on the tongue after tasting it. It yields a little camphor, to which its taste is partly owing, and its medicinal uses are well known. Pennyroyal mint, (M. pulegium. Linn.), has a warm pungent flavour, but less agreeable than common mint. It is employed in some particular dishes in cookery, and formerly chiefly for medical purposes, but is now little used. SuBSECT. 4. — Marjoram (Origanum, Linn.). 2565. There are several species of marjoram, but that which is preferred for cookery, and which is cultivated in our gardens for this purpose, is the sweet marjoram (O. mar- jorana. Linn.), also called knotted marjoram. It is a native of Portugal, and the seeds seldom ripen here; they are brought from France. The leaves are dried as a sea- soning herb, having an agreeable aromatic flavour. There is also a winter sweet mar- joram (O. heracleoticum. Linn.), a native of Greece, used for the same purposes. Pot marjoram (O. onites, Linn.) is another variety originally brought from Sicily, which does not ripen its seeds here. Common or wild marjoram (O. vidgare, Linn.) is found growing in our fields, chiefly among copse-wood on calcareous soils. This has nearly the same flavour, but is inferior, and is only used when the others are not at hand. All these are favourite ingredients in soups, stuffings, &c. SuBSECT. 5.— Savory (Satureja, Linn.). 2566. Of this aromatic herb there are two varieties, the summer and winter savory, from the time of year when they may be gathered. They are natives of Italy, but are cultivated in our gardens for the use of the cook. The leaves are gathered and dried.