HINTS ON THE PBACTICE OF BUILDING. liiHAr. VI. 45 nafrequently, much useless expenditure is occasioned, witliout corresponding advantage, u the modern style of finishing our apartments, it must be admitted that vast improve- ments have been made of late. The use of oil paint, and the invention of paper hanging, awe given a lightness and airiness to our apartments, strongly contrasted with the heavy fffect of the dark-coloured wainscoat and dust- collecting tapestry of fonner times; -while Kie abundant introduction of light, by means of large panes of glass, adds a cheerfulness iprmerly unknown. 160. The finishing of all the apartments may be designed and exhibited previously to xtecution, by drawings made in the manner shown in fig. 45,, where the four sides are r 1 1 □ □ o 1 oj Fig. 45. lilid down round the plan. On each of these the several details may he inserted; and wen the window-curtains and furniture may be shown. SuBSECT. 1.—Plastering the Walls and Ceilings. 161. Tlte business of the plasterer commences as soon as the brick-work is thoroughly Irry, and not before, otherwise there wiU be danger of the drying and finishing of the I' ouse being protracted,' as we have stated. The name of this trade is derived fromplaster if Paris, the substance of which all plaster ornaments and cornices are made, and which Si sometimes employed likewise to mix with mortar for the plastering on walls to cause I; to set sooner. It is produced from a stone or mineral, called gypsum, in the following manner. The gypsum is broken into small lumps, and submitted to the action of a heated iwen. When cold it is ground to a fine powder in a mill, and is then fit for use. A paste made iff plaster of Paris and water, of the consistence of thick cream, has the peculiar property ii'f setting, or becoming solid, in a few minutes; and upon this property depends the method if.f making plaster casts. The moulds for these casts having been previously oiled, the iiiquid mixture is poured into them, and when it is hard the casts are taken out. This nnaterial is so called from its having been originally imported from Paris, where it is nnade plentifully from the gypsum of Montmaitre ; but what we now have is prepared from ijypsum found in Derbyshire and other places : this is brought to London, where it is ■calcined, ground, and sold in brown paper-bags. But the business of the plasterer is I'lot confined to plaster casts: he likewise lays on the coatings of mortar to walls, parti- idons, and other places; and he also does the stucco, white-washing, and some kinds of riolouring. 162. Brick-walls to be plastered ought first to be perfectly dry ; and the process of r'rovering them with plaster is termed rendering. The first coat laid on consists of good - common mortar, having hair from the tan-yards mixed with it, to prevent its cracking. The ■tiecond coat, called setting, is done by a finer mortar, made with lime and fine sand. The li ime used in this case is called fine stuff, and is prepared by slaking quicklime with very I: ittle water, and afterwards saturating it with water to excess, putting it into tubs, to settle und cause the water to evaporate: by this means a fine material is procured; a nicer kind if it is called putty. The use of the second coat of plaster is to give a perfectly smooth ■ iurface for colouring or papering. Sometimes, if the work is required to dry or set veiy - ioon, a little plaster of Paris is mixed with it, and it is then called guaged stuff] 16.3. In order to secure the perfect dryness of plastering or stucco in good apartments, the t'brick-walls are generally baUened. This is fixing on them long upright slips of wood foalled battens, on which laths are nailed close together horizontally, thus leaving a cavity bbetween the laths and the walls. The plastering being laid upon these laths, no wet that "may penetrate the wall can reach the plaster : this kind of work is termed lath and folaster. The first coat laid on consists of lime, sand, and hair, which is termed by the pplasterer pricking up. This next coat is of a finer material, and being laid on and