Chap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. 191 for making waistcoats, and in other places for jackets : also for covering trunks ; but are nearly laid aside for the latter purpose, as an insect breeds in them very frequently that attacks the hair. 862. Parchment is a very ancient preparation from skins, used for writing upon ; and, ffrom its great durability, is still employed for the same purpose in the case of valuable rcecords. It is made of the thinnest sheep or goat skins. After the hair and flesh are cleaned off in the lime pit, the skins are soaked, drained, stretched upon frames, dried, aand rubbed with pumice stone and chalk, and then pared to bring them to the requii'ed ihinness. It is sometimes dyed of various colours. 863. Vellum is a superior kind of parchment, not passed through the lime pit, and is iimade of thinner skins. It is finer, smoother, and whiter than common parchment. LLately, several machines have been invented for splitting hides, by which one half is converted into leather, and the other into vellum or parchment. Shagreen is a valuable material, used often for spectacle, instrument, and other cases, and is a singular manufacture, brought chiefly from Astracan. To make it, they choose Ihe strong skin that covers the crupper of the ass or the horse. This is soaked in water, aand the hair taken off. It is then cut and scraped till it is extremely thin, and in this state, while wet and soft, small round hard seeds are strewed over it, and are trodden deeply into the soft, yielding skin. The skin is then dried and the seeds shaken out: the surface is rasped down till the whole is nearly, but not quite level. It is then again soaked, and the parts which were depressed now rise above those parts which had been rasped. TThe skins are now dyed of a green colour, and allowed to dry. Lastly, the grains or 1 projecting warts are rubbed down till the whole is completely level, when the shagreen ppresents the beautiful appearance of white dots on a green ground. Sect. VII. PAPIER-MACHEE. 864. Tliis substance, as its name imports, is made from paper reduced to a pulp with gum nor size, pressed in moulds, and aftei-wards dried : it is at present very much employed in vrarious ornamental works, which were formerly executed in plaster of Paris or carving, inch as the enrichments in cornices and ceilings, picture frames, &c. It is originally a French invention, and was much in use sixty years ago, but had been almost laid aside "or the above purposes ; it was revived a few years ago. It had, however, been always !niployed for largo tea-boards, trays, &c. for which it is admirably adapted from its o-reat ightness and strength. The black varnish for trays, &c. is prcpai-ed in the following manner. Some ;olophony, or turpentine is boiled down till it becomes black and pliable ; this is v. etted iin a glazed earthen vessel, and then as much amber in fine powder is sprinkled in by Mogrees, with the addition of a little spirit or oil of turpentine now and then : when the ;imber is wetted, the same quantity of sarcocolla is sprinkled in and stirred ; then more pirit of turpentine is added, till the whole becomes fluid. The mixture is next strained -hroiigh a coarse hair bag, by pressing it gently between hot boards. This varnish, mixed 9ith ivory black in fine powder, is applied in a hot room on the papier-machce, which is :hus set in a gently-heated oven, next day in a hotter oven, and the third day in a very lot one, and suffered to stand each time till the oven is grown cold. The article so Tarnished, is hard, light, and durable, with a fine gloss, and bears liquors hot or cold vithout injury. Sect. VIIL textile tabrics. 865. These materials, which form so great a part of furniture, as silk, cotton, linen, and "'^Yll^' treated of among the substances employed as clothing or dress, in Book Sect. IX. HAIR. 866. TJie hair of animals is emphijed in various articles of furniture : when it is very iLne and soft, it is termed fur, (which see in Chap. IX. Book XVII.) Hair is used for itufling mattresses, sofas, and chairs, and making sieves, and it is woven into a cloth for oovermg chairs and sofa.s. The best for all purposes is horse hair ; but that from tails of lonllocks IS also good; the shortest hair taken off skins being only fit for being mixed ifith mortar for the plasterer, although a good deal of this is introduced among better 1 inds in inferior and cheap manufactures. When hair is to be prepared for mattresses ; IS twisted round wooden cylinders and boiled, and then baked in an oven, to give it -i iiurly and springy form. The long straight hair is reserved for weaving into cloth for