CONSTRUCTION OF STABLES. 1131 Chap. I. walls quite white, but -with a tinge of brownish yellow or stone colour, this being less glaring for the horses' eyes. 6718. For nkjht, the best lights are candles or lamps in lanterns. The gas lights, which are sometimes employed to burn continually in stables, are extremely prejudicial, as they consume much of the vital part of the air, and sometimes suffer the carbonated hydro- gen to escape unburnt, which is exceedingly injurious. 6719. Stalls. All good stables are divided into stalls, one for each horse, and these are separated from each other by wooden partitions (see plan of a four-stall stable. Jig. 888., and the view of the interior, 889.). If horses are placed together, they are ' ii ' \\ ■ • . ii 1 a 1 11 Fig. 888. Fig. 889. apt to do each other mischief, or are in some way inconvenient to the other. In some stables they are separated only by wooden bars; but these are not enough, for one will sometimes rob the other of his food, or do him harm by biting or other annoyance. Good stalls require to be six feet wide in general, and should be eight or nine feet in depth; that is, the partition should be of this length to prevent one horse interfering with another; the height of the partition should be seven feet at the head and five at the heels. Ponies will do with stalls five feet wide, but large dray horses require six feet six inches. When the stall is too broad, the horse will stand across it; when too narrow, he cannot lie down, which is a necessary position for his repose after having been hard worked. It ruins a horse's legs and feet not to allow him to stretch his limbs in the stall. Of the paving of the stall we have already made mention. The stall posts are uprights at the bottom of the stall to stay the par- tition (see fig. 890.); they should be round or octagonal, not square ; some- times they only rise a little above the partition, and sometimes they extend to the ceiling which is firmest. Each side of this post should have a ring for pillar reins, which are used when the horse is required to stand reversed in his stall, as he is occasionally when cleaning. The top of the partition is generally covered with iron. In some stables, there are, besides the stalls, some compartments much wider, called boxes, for such horses to be in tliat are ill, or which require much rest. When horses are worked daily, it is proper to hang the harness of each on pegs in the wall opposite, to lose as little time as possible in putting or keeping in the harness-room that which is used only occasionally. (1720. Haji-raclt.'i are usually made of wood, but they are now beginning to be made of cast-iron, which, though more expensive at first, are much more durable, and are more easily kept clean. The front of the rack usually slopes forwards, as mfig. 889., that the horse may draw the hay more easily from it, and that it be more easily filled. But there are some objections to this form, and dust and seeds of the hay sometimes fall into the horse's eyes, and on this account some prefer having the bars or spars (as they are called) perpendicular, as in fig. 891., but this requires greater depth of the stall, because a partition must be run up at a little distance from the wall as in the section fig. 890., and the hay is thrown into the space between, either from the hay-loft above, or from an opening just under the ceiling of the stable. In this space, below the rack, there is a bottom with bars closer to let the seeds and dust fall through, which are collected by a door below. The spars should be round, two feet and a half high, an inch and a quai'ter thick, and