856 Book XI. GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. some degree rarefied, and consequently the pressure upon the water at 1, in the inside of the suction pipe, is not now so great as before, and is less than that upon the surface of the water at h and i, on the outside, which has the undiminished pressure of the atmo- sphere. The consequence of this unequal pressure on the water within and without the suction pipe is, that water is forced into the interior of the latter, and rises at each stroke of the piston until it reaches it. On the next action of the piston, it works in the water, and tlie efifect is the same as was described in the lifting pump, the piston lifting at each stroke, the water above it ; but as the piston is made to work near the top, and near the place of delivery, this weight is very little, the pressure of the atmosphere now always keeping up the water as high as the piston. The water so raised now runs out by a short pipe at the side, m. To provide for the constancy of this stream, a small reservoir, n, o, is formed upon the top of the pump. It is scarcely necessary to observe that the piston rod is usually moved up and down by a lever called the pump handle. 4822. The operation of the common forcing pump is the following, a, b, Jig. 758. is a suction pipe descending into a well, tank, &c. containing water, and having in it a valve, k, opening upwards. The piston or working barrel, c, d, Jig. 758., contains e, a solid piston without any valve, moved up and down by the rod,y. We will suppose that, at first, all these are full of air only. When the piston, e, descends, it will condense the air below it, which will cause the valve fi, to shut; but the condensed air will find its way out through the valve, t, placed iu the branching pipe ■, as soon as the piston rises, the spring of the tion pipe, a, b, will force up through the valve, k, to supply the partial vacuum between the piston and this valve, the air being now rarefied in that place. When the piston next de- scends, the same effect will be repeated, and more air will be driven out through the valve, i. But the result of rarefying the air in the suction and piston barrels at each stroke of the piston will be, that the pressure of the atmosphere on the surface of the water outside the suction pipe will force the water up into it until it rises as high as the piston, in the same way as in the suck- ing pump ; when this happens, on the next stroke of the piston downwards, it w'ill force the water through the valve, i, in the same manner as it before did the air, and by using sufficient force, and proportioning the size of the barrels and the pipes properly, the water may be forced as high as is desired through the pipe, /. 4823. A better construction of a pump, to answer the same purpose as the last, is in this manner, a b,Jlg. 759., is the section pipe with its valve, e, and erf the branch pipe. .758. Pig. 759. Bg. 760. J f ' // with its valve, f. The top of the working barrel, g h, is closed, but allowing the piston rod to work through it in a collar of leather, so as to be air-tight. The piston here has a valve in it opening upwards, as in the sucking-pump. It is obvious that this piston, with its valve, and the pipe, a b, with its valve, e, is really a sucking-pump, and acts as such, raising the water by the pressure of the atmosphere till it reaches the piston; but when