468 Book VIL ON FOOD. to be drawn as young green onions for salad in the spring: its taste is, however, stronger than the garden onion. It is very hardy, surviving the severest winter, in which, tiiough their blades be cut off, the roots remain sound, and shoot out vigorously in the spring. 2502. The onion hem been analysed by Fourcroy and Vauquelin ; and found to contain water, sulphur, phosphoric and acetic acids, some vegeto-animal matter, and a little manna ; to the latter is owing the sweetish taste observable in onions, particularly in pickled onions, when the acrimony has been extracted by the vinegar. SuBSECT. 2.—Leek {Allium poirum, Linn.). 2503. The leek is supposed to be a native of Switzerland. Shakspeare, in Henry V., mentions it as the badge of the Welsh before his time, and derives the origin of this from the battle of Cressy. Its hardiness and pungency have recommended it in cold mountain- ous districts, and it was an ingredient in two very old Scotch dishes, " Cock a leekie," a great favourite with James I.; and in the famed " Haggles." The leeks which are cultivated in the colder parts of the Highlands of Scotland and in Wales are more pungent than those of England. Worlidge observes of Wales, " I have seen the greater part of a garden there stored with leeks, and part of the remainder with onions and garlic." Tradition says it was introduced into that country by St. David. 2.'j04. Many prefer its flavour to that of the onion in broth ; and, as it stands the winter, it is a very useful potherb. Leek porridge is a very ancient dish. The whole plant is used in soups and stews, but the blanched stem is most esteemed: these are very good boiled, and served up on toasted bread, and white sauce. Notwithstanding its unpleasant odour it is very wholesome, but requires to be well boiled that it may not taint the breath. SuBSECT. 3.— Chive (^Allium Scheenoprasum, Linn.). 2505. This is the smallest of the onion kind, rising but a few inches high : it is a native of Britain, and is found occasionally in our pastures. Its taste much resembles that of the onion, but is milder. The bulbs are extremely small and in clusters. Both these and the leaves are employed as a potherb, and as they are very hardy and easily cultivated, they would be very useful in the garden of the cottager, were he accustomed to live more upon broths. The leaves rise early in the spring, and are sometimes employed in spring salads, and also in omelets and soups. SuBSECT. 4. — Garlic (^Allium sativum, Linn.). 2506. This gives its name to the alliaceous tribe ; it possesses the most acrimonious taste of the whole, and a smell that is considered by most persons as offensive. It grows naturally in Sicily, the south of France, and other countries bordering on the Mediterra- nean ; it was introduced into England in 1548. It is extensively used as a seasoning herb on the Continent, particularly in Italy, and was more relished by our ancestors than in our times. The root, which is the part made use of, consists of a group of several bulbs called cloves of garlic, inclosed in a common membranous skin. In foreign cookery it is seldom employed in substance, but introduced for a short time only into the dish that is cooking, and withdrawn when it has communicated a sufficient flavour. At present the French use it much, and consider it essential to many dishes. SuBSECT. 5. — Shallot (Allium Ascalonicum, Linn.). 2507. This was originally found growing wild near Ascalon in Palestine, whence its botanical appellation, and is supposed to have been brought to England by the Crusaders. It is a bulbous root, resembling the garlic in being divided into several cloves inclosed in a skin. The leaves wither in July, when the roots are full grown: the latter are taken up in autumn, and are dried and housed for use: they will keep till the spring. Its flavour is more pungent than that of the garlic, but more agreeable. It is employed in soups and made dishes ; also in sauces and pickles ; and it forms a favourite accompani- ment to steaks and chops. It was called by old authors the barren onion, from the circumstance of its scarcely ever sending up a flower stalk. SuBSECT. 6.—Rosambole (^Allium scorodoprasum. Linn.). 2508. This bulbous root has a flavour between that of the shallot and garlic, and, like them, is divided into cloves: its uses are also similar. It is a native of Denmark, but is cultivated here occasionally.