462 Book VII. ON FOOD. Sect. IV. ESCULENT ROOTS. 2452. The roots of many plants supply food, and hence are called esculent. Those culti- vated in Britain may be divided into two groups ; the farinaceous, as the potato and the Jerusalem artichoke, to which may be added the yam; and the succulent, as the tuniip, carrot, parsnep, beet, raddish, and a few more of less importance. This class of culinary vegetables is that on which the British people chiefly depend; and it is that which is decidedly the best suited to the climate. The potatoes and other esculent roots grown in the British islands are very far superior to those of the Continent in quality ; and the quantity consumed is much more considerable. SuBSECT. 1.— The Potato {Solanum tuberosum). 2453. The potato, a well-known tuber, popularly, though not with botanical correctness, considered as a root, may be ranked next in importance to corn as a vegetable food. There is no doubt that it was originally brought to Europe from South America ; but its early history has been involved in some obscurity, partly from there being another root very similar, the sweet potato (^Convolvulus batata), with which it had been confounded, and from which it appears to have received its name. 2454. The batata was originally a Malayan plant, and was imported into England from Spain and the Canaries long before the introduction of the potato. It was esteemed a great delicacy, and made into a confection, and is still partially cultivated in Spain and the south of France. It was this that was alluded to by Shakspeare in his Merry Wives of Windsor,—" Let the skye rain potatoes, and hail kissing-comfits." 2455. The true potato is said to have been first brought into this country from Virginia by Hackluyt in 1584, and planted by Sir Walter Raleigh on his estate at Goughall, near Cork, in Ireland, where it was cultivated to a considerable extent before its value was known in England. Gerarde, in his Herbal (1597), mentions it as "a delicate dish;" and Parkinson, in 1629, says that they were roasted, and then steeped in sack and sugar, or baked with marrow and spices. For many years afterwards they were considered as inferior to the Jerusalem artichoke ; and, indeed, it was not till the middle of the eighteenth century that they came into general cultivation. Even so lately as the beginning of the nineteenth century, a strong prejudice against potatoes existed in France, though now they are cultivated there to a^reat extent, and a market in Paris is exclusively devoted to their sale. 2456. The question as to what is the indigenous country of the potato is now set at rest, by its being found abundantly in the wild state in the highlands of Chili and Peru, from whence tubers were sent by Mr. Caldcleugh in 1828, and planted in the garden of the Horticultural Society. Potatoes in their wild state in America are of a very small size, and by no means of an agreeable taste. The varieties which we now find in the markets are entirely the result of cultivation. 2457. The potato has now been introduced into almost every quarter of the globe, and its cultivation has made the most rapid progress of late. It is the more valuable as it grows readUy in almost every climate, and its culture is extremely easy : it has also this grand advantage, that it will succeed on land which wiU not produce grain, and may be raised at a small expense. A given quantity of land planted with potatoes will produce as much food as twice that quantity sown with wheat. 2458. It forms a wholesome food, and, having no great peculiarity of taste, is relished by every palate ; hence it is now a regular standing dish at every table ; with many, particu- larly in Ireland, it serves as a substitute for bread. The most correct opinion respecting the nutritive properties of potatoes will be obtained from the consideration of their constituent principles. They have been analysed by various chemists: the analysis by EinhofiF, which is generally received as the best, is, in 100 parts, water, 72-6 ; starch, 15-0 ; fibrous matter, 7-0 ; albumen, 1-4 ; mucilage, 4-0. Here it is essential to observe the large proportion of water, and it is only the remainder that is to be considered as farinaceous. Tartaric acid is abundant in the potato apple; and it is important to notice that the young shoots of the potato yield Solanea, an alkali which is, to a certain degree, poisonous. The fibrous part appears to be a peculiar modification of starch, which, as well as that substance, may be employed for food ; but it is to be noticed that there is no gluten, except the albumen may be considered as nearly the same thing. Various kinds of pota- toes afford these constituents in proportions a little different; but the above may be con- sidered as the average of the best mealy potatoes, the nutritive part being about twenty- seven per cent., of which the starch is the principal portion. No doubt can be entertained of their wholesome nature, when we consider the numerous hardy peasantry of Ireland,