751 Chap. III. THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. Perhaps the most ancient mode of using oatmeal in Britain, and which it still kept up in the northern parts of the island, is by making it into pottage or porridge: this is stirring meal among boiling water or milk in a pot over the fire with a little salt, till it grows thick or sets. This dish is eaten with milk, butter, or ale. An ancient variety of it is called brose, which is made by roasting the oatmeal in a frying pan till it is a little brown, and pouring over it the liquor in which beef has been boiled. 4274. Sowans is a species of food little known in England, but much used in Scotland. It is prepared from the husk or bran from which the oatmeal has been sifted, much in the same way as starch is from wheat. The husk of the oats (called sids) is mixed with water, and suffered to remain until it sours a little. The whole is then thrown upon a sieve, and water passed through. By this, all the fine starchy matter is carried down into a tub with water placed beneath, in which it subsides to the bottom ; the sour liquor is decanted off, and the sediment, still moist, is put into a vessel for use. To prepare it for food, equal parts of sowans and water are boiled till they thicken into a gelatinous substance, which is very wholesome and nutritive, and when fresh is very agreeable ; by keeping it acquires a degree of tartness, but which is still not unpleasant. It is much used as a light supper dish, and is eaten with milk, cream, or butter, sweetened or not with sugar. 4275. It is a general idea in England that the me of oatmeal bread heats the blood, and occasions cutaneous eruptions. Witli respect to the first of tliese opinions, Sir Humphry Davy states (rigric. Cheni. 138.) that he was informed by Sir Joseph Banks, " that the Derbyshire miners, in winter, preferred oat cakes to wheaten bread, finding that tliis kind of nourishment enables them to support their strength and perform their labour better. In summer, thej say, oat cakes heat them, and they then consume the finest wheaten bread they can procure." With respect to the supposed effects of oat cakes upon the skin, Mr. Loudon tells us {Encyclo. oj Jg.) "that the labourers in Angus and Forfarth, who live almost entirely upon oatmeal, are as free from complaints of this kind as they are in other places ; and that when these do occur, they are to be ascribed rather to want of cleanliness th.in to their food." 4276. Bread qf oatmeal and peas. — In some parts of Lancashire, and also in Scotland, they mix oatmeal and peas-meal, and make bread of these in the following manner. A peck of oatmeal and another of peas meal are mixed well together, by passing them through a sieve; and to these are added three or four ounces of salt; the whole is then kneaded into dough with warm water. The dough is next rolled out into thin cakes, or made into flat rolls, which are baked on a hot plate or in an oven. 4277. Unfermented bread may be made from any other grain by a similar process; but as they are not in common use amongst us. we need not mention them. 4278. Biscuits belong to the class of unfermented bread, and are perhaps the most wholesome of that class ; in cases where fennented bread does not agree, they may be re- commended : in many instances, they are considered lighter, and less liable to create acidity and flatulence. The name is derived from the French bis cuit, " twice baked," because originally that was the mode of entirely depriving them of all moisture, to ensure their keeping : and although that process is no longer employed, the name is retained. The use of this kind of bread on land is pretty general, and some varieties are luxuries : but at sea, biscuits are articles of the first necessity. 4279. Sea or ship's biscuits are made of wheat flour from which only the coarsest bran has been separated. The dough is made up as stiff as it can be worked, and is then formed into shapes and baked in an oven; after which they are exposed in lofts over the oven until perfectly dry, to prevent them from becoming mouldy when stored. One hundred and twelve pounds of flour produce one hundred and two pounds of dry biscuits. The method of preparing them for the use of the Navy has long been admired for its simplicity and expedition; and lately, much adulteration having been detected by the con- tractors, the method has been still further improved by the application of machinery em- ployed by government. No salt is put into sea biscuits, that they may not attract moisture. The French sea biscuits are made with leaven: they are very brittle, and dissolve very easily. But as these biscuits are never made in private families, it is unnecessary to describe the mode of their manufacture. A variety, of biscuit, called captain's biscuit, is made in a similar manner, only of fine flour. 4280. Abernethy biscuits, so called from a town in Scotland where they were first made, Lave a little milk and some carraway seeds, and are more brittle than the last. Both these are now made by every biscuit baker. The mode of making other varieties of biscuits and cakes will be described under the heads of " Pastry" and " Confectionary," Book XV. Chap. I. Sect. II. THEOnY OF THE FERMENTATION OF BREAD. 4281. All kinds of meal and Jlour contain more or less of a peculiar substance that ferments of itself; but a mixture of flour and water alone will enter into fermentation only very slowly. Four ounces of wheat flour with a pint of water, kept in a temperature of 70°, took four days before it began to ferment. 4282. By the addition of either leaven or yeast to the dough, the whole mass is made to fer- ment more rapidly; and in consequence, a quantity of fixed air or carbonic acid gas is formed, as in the brewing of beer: but this air being in small quantity, and generated in