."575 Chap. III. BREWING. Fig. 550. ScBSKCT. 2. — Description of the Vessels and Instruments used in Brewing. 3240. There are certain vessels required in every brewery; but the exact kind will depend pai'tly upon the opulence of those who brew, and partly upon the scale on which the operations are to be carried on. When economy is not so much an object as to have every thing very complete, considerable ingenuity may be employed in fitting up the brewhouse, for which many hints may be obtained from the practice of professional brewers. In smaller establishments more simple apparatus will be found suiEcient, and in many cases it may be an important consideration to reduce these to the greatest sim- plicity possible, and to show with how little expense and trouble brewing may be effected. The several modes have their particular advantages, and every individual must choose the style of the various implements which best suit his circumstances and convenience. In our description of the apparatus, we shall include the cheapest as well as the most complete kinds for private brewing. 3241. Copper, — The water is heated in a copper fixed for the purpose, if the brew- ing be on a tolerable scale, or in a portable one, if the brewing be very small; in short, the size of the copper must depend upon the extent of the establishment, and what is required. Fig. 550. is a copper set of the smallest kind. In the best arranged breweries, the copper and reservoir of water are placed at the upper part of the building, for the convenience of the liquids descending lower and lower, from one stage of the process to another, thus avoiding the labour of raising them up. But this great convenience, the advantage of which will be easily comprehended in following the various parts of the brewing processes, cannot always be obtained ; and the mode of arranging the vessels must depend very much upon the situation. There is sometimes considerable difficulty in preventing the contents of the copper from burning, which, if it should happen, will give a disagreeable taste to the beer; an improvement has been employed in great breweries, of boiling by means of steam, which obviates this inconvenience. 3242. Tlie mash tub, or tun. This is the vessel which is to hold all the ground malt or grist, and water enough to make the infusion of sweet wort for ale. It should be large enough to hold the whole of the wort of which the ale is made, and all the malt: there should likewise be room enough besides to mash in, which requires at least five or six inches in depth, that is, the liquor should not reach above five to six inches from the edge of the mash tub. It is generally made of wooden staves fixed by hoops of iron or wood. Jig 551., or a porter barrel may be sawn in two to make this and the fermenting tub. All that is essentially necessary is to have a tub or other vessel capacious enough to hold the malt and water to be infused, with a contrivance at the bottom to let off the in- fusion or sweet wort into another vessel. For this purpose some have a cock fixed near the bottom ; but in cheaper apparatus a spigot and faucet, a b, fig. 552., is found sufficient for those who cannot afford the other. This, in the common one, is merely driven tight into the hole in the lower part of the tun, and the peg takes out; but this simple contrivance has several defects which a cock is free from : the wood is apt to swell with the hot liquid, and then can scarcely be moved ; also in attempting to draw off the wort, it will sometimes issue suddenly and scald the operator. An improvement is to have a screw cut upon the faucet, as ai (/. Sometimes, to keep hack the