FISH. 413 Chap. VI. Sect. II. SAXT-WATEE FISH. Sdbsect. 1. — TTie Turbot (Pleuronectes maximiis, Linn.). 2144. This is the most highly prized of our flat fish. It inhabits the northern and : Mediterranean seas, and is taken on the south coast of England in great plenty. It ; grows to a large size, sometimes even to weigh thirty poimds. The flesh is white, firm, • rich, gelatinous, and of a fine flavour; but being a ground fish, Ude, the celebrated French tcook, says, that it is better for keeping a day or two; since, when just caught, it is apt to ! be not merely firm, but a little too hard. They are often brought to London alive in ' well-boats ; and as they do not all spawn at the same time, some are in season in every ] part of the year. The London market is chiefly supplied by the Dutch fishermen, and a 1 preference is given to those caught on the coast of Holland ; but a great many are like- iwise taken at the Dogger bank, and on the coasts of Cornwall and Devon. Those sent I up from Scotland packed in ice are very inferior, and may be purchased for a fourth of the [ price given for the best turbots. From the great demand for this esteemed fish, not- 1 withstanding its price, vast numbers are brought to London, so many as 87,958 in one ; year. SuBSECT. 2. — The Sole (^Pleuronectes Solea, Linn.). 2145. The sole is well known to be, next to the turbot, the best of our flat fish. It i inhabits the sandy bottom on all our coasts, but is finer in the west and south than in t the north and east. It is an inhabitant of the northern seas, the Baltic, Mediterranean, : and America. Great numbers are taken on the south coast of England, by the boats from 1 Dover, Folkestone, Brighton, and Hastings, and brought to the London market alive by 1 well-boats, or by land carriage. The finest are caught off Plymouth and in Torbay ; t they frequently weigh eight or ten pounds per pair, and have been seen two feet in 1 length, but the smaller are preferred. They are likewise taken off Yarmouth. They are full 1 of roe at the latter end of February ; for a few weeks after that they are soft and watery, 1 but they soon recover. Some of them are in season all the year round ; but they are in ! highest perfection about midsummer. As they are an excellent, firm, white, and delicate t fish, they are frequently seen upon the London tables. It is essential that they should be ] perfectly fresh, or the flesh loses its firmness, and thickness is desirable. Those from the (deep water are superior in quality. They have been kept alive in fresh-water ponds; in I Mr. Arnold's pond in Guernsey the sole becomes twice as thick as one of the same length t from the sea, and they are known to breed there. They are taken, also, in the Anin in : Sussex, five miles from the sea, where they remain all winter, burying themselves in the imud. ScBSECT. 3. — TTie Brill (Pleuronectes rhombus, Linn.). 2146. This is somewhat like the sole, but broader, and is intermediate between that : and the turbot. It is a fine fish, and, when large, not much inferior to the latter, though I much cheaper. It is brought in abundance to the London market. Sdbsect. 4. — The Flounder (Pleuronectes Jlesus, Linn.). 2147. The flounder is generally the least esteemed of our flat fish. It is smaller than t the plaice. It inhabits both the seas and rivers, coming into the latter to breed ; and they ' will thrive in fresh-water ponds. It is very abundant on our coasts, and they also fre- quent our rivers at a considerable distance from the salt water. Great quantities of them ; are brought to the London market, and are sold at a cheap rate. They are in season t from January to March, and from July to September. It is considered as a light food, ! being sweet, and easy of digestion. The Thames flounder is a delicate and esteemed tfish. - . SuBSECT. 5. — The Dab (Pleuronectes limanda, Linn.). 2148. This is very similar to the flounder, but smaller and thinner. It is out of season I in May and June. StTBSECT. 6. — The Plaice (Pleuronectes platissa, Linn.). 2149. This flat fish is extremely abundant on our coasts, and is also found in the Mediterranean and the Baltic. It is inferior to the sole, the flesh being less firm and white, and not so well flavoured ; but when they are of a large size, and just caught, they are by no means despicable. They are sold at a low price, and are generally purchased by the poorer people. The best of those brought to the London market are called