Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 775 " While meat remains in a thick piece, it is impossible to get the middle dried before putrefaction com- mences ; but if tlic meat be cut into slices, its desiccation may be easily effected. The fleshy parts of the hind quarters are cut into very thin slices, dried in the sun or before tlie fire, and pounded. Two parts of the pounded meat are then mixed with one of melted fat, and packed into a bag formed of the hide of the animal. A bag weighing ninety pounds is called a taureau by tlie Canadian voyageurs ; and, in fact, only one bag of pemmican is generally made from each bison cow. Two pounds of this kind of food are sufficient for the daily support of a labouring man, though, when the voyageurs first commence upon pemmican, they will each consume three pounds, or more. In the spring, they generally boil the young shoots of the Epilobium angzisti/'olimn along with it; .ind some Scotchmen in the service of the Hudson's Bay Company add flour or oatmeal, thus rendering it more palatable. The best pemmican is made of finely- pounded meat, mixed with marrow, and further improved by the addition of dried berries or currants. If kept from the air, it may be preserved sound for several years, and being very portable, it might be used with great advantage in provisioning troops that have to make forced marches. It may be eaten raw, or mixed with a little water, and boiled ; and although not much relished by those who taste it for the first time, the voyagittr, with the single addition of the luxury of tea, requires nothing else for breakfast, and dinner or supper." — Back's Journal. 4427. The Moors of Africa preserve meat in t/ie following manner: — They cut into thin slices, beef, mutton, or camel's flesh, and after salting them well, sufler them to lie in the pickle twenty-four hours. The meat is then removed from the tubs or jars, and put into others filled with fresh water; and when it has remained there a night, it is taken out, and hung on ropes to dry in the sun and air. When thoroughly dried and hard, it is cut into pieces two or three inches long, and thrown into a pan, or cauldron, which is kept ready with boiled oil and suet sufficient to cover it; thus it is boiled, till it be very clear and red on cutting it, when it is again taken out and set to drain. After having undergone this process, it stands to cool, while the jars are getting ready for storing it; at the same time, the liquor in which it was fried is poured upon it, and as soon as it is thoroughly cold, the vessels are closely stopped. Preserved in this manner, it will remain h.ard,and keep two years ; indeed, the hardest is considered the best and most palatable. It it brought to table sometimes fried with eggs and garlic, or stewed with a little lemon-juice poured on it. 4428. Jerked betf is a name given to a method of curing beef in the West Indies and South America. It is there difficult to preserve beef by pickling ; but they cut the meat into slices, dip it into sea-water, or brine, and dry it in the sun. In this manner they preserve the flesh of the wild cattle at Buenos Ayres, from whence a great deal is exported to Brazil and Havannah for the slaves, and is found to be excellent food. Sometimes, also, they pound this dried meat in a mortar into a uniform paste, which is pressed into jars ; and if required for travelling, they beat it up with maize meal and press it into leather bags ; prep.ired in this way it is eaten without further dressing by fire. Captain Owen, in his late " Survej' of the East Coast of Africa," mentions American ships hound for India being supplied with jerked beef at Madagascar. 4429. Some kinds of fish are dried, -when they are below a certain size, merely by slit- ting them and by exposure to the air, so as to evaporate their moisture ; these will pre- serve fresh perfectly well if kept from damp. Small cod and haddock are often treated in this manner, and the stock-fish of the north of Europe. In the large kinds of fish, how- ever, the desiccation seldom proceeds with sufficient rapidity, and the addition of salt is found necessary to prevent putrefaction taking place before they can be sufliciently dried in the air. 4430. Bi/ drying meat from air alone, a great part of the nutritive juices are dissipated, and its flavour considerably impaired, which forms a great objection to this mode of pre- serving. 4431. Portable soup comes into this class of substances preserved as food by drying. The principle upon which it is made is the same with that of manufacturing glue. The gelatine of meat is dissolved by boiling water ; and the water being afterwards evapo- rated, the gelatine is left in a solid state. Any fresh lean meat will answer for this purpose, but the fat should be cut away. Portable soup, made in large quantities, forms a valuable acquisition to the traveller, and to those engaged in naval and military duties. 4432. Dr. Kitchener endeavoured to ascertain by careful investigation the best and cheapest mode of making this soup. The legs and shins of beef he found to ans%er better than other meat, both in regard to quantity and flavour. If expense is not a principal object, the addition of other meat, and the trimmings of poultry and game, together with lean ham, in the proportion of one pound to eight of beef, will greatly improve the flavour. Made without ham, the price of this essence in the shops is from lOj. to 12s. the pound : made in a private kitchen. Dr. K. estimates the expense to be scarcely more than 3s. Cd. per pound. One ounce of this (2J(<.) will make a pint of broth ; double that quantity with the addition of either thickening or flavouring ingredients, the same quantity of soup. 4433. To make portable soup.— Take a leg or shin of beef weighing about ten pounds; have it from a bullock recently killed ; break the bones, and put it into your soup pot; just cover it with water, and set it on the fire to heat gradually till it nearly boils. It should boil for nearly an hour. When scum rises it should be carefully skimmed off, and a little cold water be poured in once or twice, which will cause more Bcum to rise on the surface, which must be again removed. When the scum has ceased rising, let it boil for eight or nine hours, and then strain it through a hair sieve into a stone jar, and place it where it will quickly cool. The next day, after removing every particle of fat, pour it quite through a very fine sieve, or tamis, mto a stew pan, taking care th.it none of the settlings at the bottom go into the stew pan. After .adding a quarter of an ounce of bl.ick peppercorns, let it boil briskly, the pan uncovered, until it begins to thicken, and is reduced to about a quart. All scum that rises must be removed fis in the preceding process, but without adding water to it. When it begins to thicken, withdraw it from the brisk fire, and place it where it can continue to boil gently until it becomes a very thick syrup. Great care must betaken to prevent it burning, which would in one instant destroy the whole. Pour out a little in a spoon, to ascertain if it will ■i^ Ir. " ""'' " '°"K<'^ ■'"I'l ft length pour it into a little potting jar, .ibout ,nn inch and a half in depth and perfectly dry. These pots Dr. Kitcfiiner recommends, if the soup is intended for home consumption, and is sufficiently concentrated to keep for six months. If to be longer preserved, it may be put Into bladders such as are used for the german sausages : or It may be dried in tlie form of cakes, by pouring It at first into a dish until cooled. When cold enough to turn out, weigh the c.ike, and divide It into pieces of an ounce or half an ounce each ; place them in a warm room, and turn them twice a day for a week or ten days, by which time they will be thoroughly dried. If kept in a dry place, they may bo jireserved for years. 4434. Portable soup, besides being very serviceable to travellers, is also very conve- nient in country places, where it is difficult to have a supply of fresh meat, for making extempore broths, sauces and gravies for hashed or stewed meat, &c. When they are to be used, half an ounce is put into a vessel with half a pint of boiling water, which is to be covered and set upon hot ashes, or put into a water-bath, for a quarter of an hour 3 D 4 '