838 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. Fig. 692. and any vessel with water placed over it, having its bottom about two inches above the flame, will be made to boil. Cases or tubes of two or three inches in diameter will boil a tea-kettle, saucepan, or stew-pans ; one of nine or ten inches' diameter will boil a fish- kettle, or joint of meat, or heat water for a bath. The gas pipe should be furnished with two stop-cocks, one for the workman who fixes the apparatus, to regulate the greatest quantity of gas admitted, to which the cook should not have access, and the other by which the cook can diminish or shut off the gas. The point for regulating is the commencement of the appearance of the yellow flame on the top of the blue flame. If more gas be admitted after this, soot is deposited on the bottoms of the cooking vessels, from the combustion of the gas not being perfect ; while, if due proportion be observed, the cooking may be performed without soiling the vessels, which may even preserve their original brightness, no soot being formed. It will be proper to enclose the sides of the table round the bottom of the thick tube, to prevent currents of air from disturbing the gas. It is necessary that great care should be taken not to injure the wire gauze, since, should it get bent or broken, the flame would then communicate to the mixed gases in the tube, and perhaps a dangerous explosion might take place. To prevent this accident, by protecting the wire gauze, some strew over it a layer of fragments of pumice-stone, which, being incombustible, protects it from any blow or other injury. A hot plate has been heated by this gas; and it has also been employed to heat an oven. It is obvious, that it is only where gas is supplied regularly for illumination, that it can, in general, be available for the purposes of cooking ; and that where no contrivances are employed to carry off the noxious gases generated, this use of coal gas must be more or less prejudicial to the health of those exposed to them. It cannot, therefore, be expected to succeed, except in the hands of persons whose scientific knowledge enables them to employ it with safety. Sect. X. PORTABLE COOKING APPARATUS. 4742. Various portable apparatus for cooking have been invented, some of which are useful on particular occasions, but none of them are equal to, nor ought to be described as perfect substitutes for the contrivances of an actual kitchen, although the inventors often hold them up to public notice in this point of view. The situations where they may be found useful and convenient are, when cooking is required in an apartment where there is no regular fitting-up for this purpose, in travelling, in camps, at sea, in pic-nic parties, and similar cases which may be easily imagined. 4743. The conjuror or camp kettle. — Some years ago, an apparatus of this name was very generally sold in London, where some may yet be found at the ironmongers', and is remarkable for the expedition with which a small piece of meat may be dressed in it; sufficient for one pei'son may be done in less than five minutes ; and a pint of water can be boiled in the same time ; the only fuel being half a sheet of thick brown paper. In the interior of a cylinder of sheet iron, an iron cone like an extinguisher, perforated, is placed over a hole in the bottom, c, fig. 691., which represents a section of the apparatus. A shallow dish of tin, b, with its cover, holds the meat, suppose a beef steak, and fits exactly into the top of the cylinder. There is a little door on the side, through which the paper wrapped round the cone is set fire to; the door is then shut. The heat of the flame being confined altogether within the cy- linder, very soon cooks the meat, an effect which is assisted by the steam being con- fined by the cover of the dish. The smoke passes off by a pipe. Fig. Fig. 692. exhibits a view of the apparatus, with its tea-kettle to fit in the cylinder: c is the cover of the round dish mentioned above. This little machine has been found extremely useful, not only in fishing or shooting parties, and other occasions where a dinner might be required at a distance from home, but likewise in numberless instances in the house, where cooked meat or hot water may be wanted quickly, and when it is inconvenient to light a fire, particularly in summer. It is perhaps impossible to carry economy, convenience, and expedition farther than by this appara- tus ; but it must be admitted, that by this process the meat is neither roasted, fried, baked, nor stewed; but it is completely done, and with proper management very palatable for those who have a good appetite.