mAv. XII. BED-ROOM FURNITURE. 279 iFig. 459. is another wardrobe, with an upright partition in the middle : the space on ide side lias no shelves ; but instead, pegs at the top for hanging cloaks, dresses, coats, &c.; ad cloak pius are also placed on the inside of the door to hang more things on. On the bher side of the partition are sliding shelves or drawers. .Fit/. 4G0. is a wardrobe of a more elegant design, executed in fine mahogany, and ffeuch polished. This is teriiicd a winijcd wardrobe from the pieces on the side of the cen- Fig. 400. rral one. The central part contains sliding shelves or drawers, as may be found most con- enient, or the upper part may have sliding shelves, and the lower part drawers ; and the 'ffings are for hanging dresses in ; the most perfect mode of doing this is to put the rresses on the apparatus of brass represented sliding on a rod, and consisting of a handle and cross piece, sometliing like a cross bow. The cross piece goes into the arm holes of Khe dress, and several may be suspended on the same rod : by this means each dress may ^je easily seen and got at without disturbing the rest. One or two of the panels of the liioor of this wardrobe may be filled with mirror. 1239. Fig. 461. is a dwarf wardrobe, proper when a small one is sufficient, or where hhere is not room for a larger. Fiy. 462. is a small wardrobe of a very plain kind. ^■'^■•461. 1 ^ o o o o o o 0 o Fm. «2. 1240. Small boxes are likewise found convenient, in addition to a wardrobe, for holding various parts of dress or soiled linen. They may be fitted up to hold bonnets, caps, &c., innd may be made of light materials, or strong, of wood: in the latter case they may be bf the size proper for a seat, for which they may be used, having a sf ufiFed cushion on tiie ■:op, and the whole being covered with chintz. A settee or ottoman made to open is useful ••.o keep ladies' dresses in, when there is not a wardrobe or room for one. Sect. VI. CHESTS, DIIAWEHS, ETC. 1241. Chesf.1 or coffers, often curiously carved in oak, and ornamented with hinges escutcheons, &c., were among the most ancient articles of furniture in England, and were T 4