Chap. IV. INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. disease occurring daily is called in medical language, a " quotidian ague ;" if instead of returning every day it comes on every other day, it is a " tertian ague ; " and then the attack is usually about noon; if it returns every third day, it is a " quartan ague," and the attack occui's principally towards evening. 7265. Treatmenl.—The treatment of ague is very successful; the influence of Cinchona bark has been known for a long time. It is usual now to prescribe not the bark itself, but its active principle, quinine, extracted by chemical agency, and united with sulphuric acid, fonning the salt called disulphate of quinine. The dose of this is from two to eight grains. It should be given between the attacks in the following form : — Take of the disulphate of quinine, 2 grains; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 minims (or more, if necessary) ; diLited nitric acid, 5 minims ; infusion of roses, 1^ ounces. Make a draught. To be taken every three or four hours. The attack of ague may sometimes be arrested by giving an emetic. To adults such as the following : — Take of powdered ipecacuanha from 15 to 25 grains. Mix with a little water, and take. For a child, Ipeca- cuanha wine may be given, or 3 or 4 grains of ipecacuanha itself. Sulphate of quinine, being an extremely expensive salt, charitable individuals living in aguish districts are usually anxious to obtain some substitute equally efficacious and less expensive. The active principle of willow bark, termed by medical men " salicine " (from Salix, the botanical name of willow), has been used for this purpose, and may be procured from the London druggists. It has certainly very considerable powers, but as it is seldom obtained at all pure, its employment has not hitherto been extensive. Arsenic is another medicine which has a great influence over ague ; it forms the chief ingredient in the " tasteless ague drop " of some districts, and has the advantage of being much cheaper than sulphate of quinine. We do not, however, recommend its employ- ment in non-medical hands, as so powerful a remedy may, if overdosed, lead to dangerous consequences. If it be given, it should be in the form of the Liquor arsenicalis, or Fowler's solution, as it is often termed ; and this may be procured from any druggist. Its dose is at first four or six drops ; if it cause any pain in the stomach, or sickness, it must be instantly discontinued. When neither cinchona bark nor willow bark can be obtained, as, for in • stance, when travellers are attacked in out-of-the-way places, other substances must be had recourse to; thus, chamomile flowers, infusion of marsh trefoil, buck-bean, pepper with rum, and the rhizome (underground stem) of the sweet flag (Acarus Calamus) have all been celebrated for curing agues, and all seem to possess powers able to do so, though not equal to cinchona bark. It is a good thing to take an emetic about half an hour before the attack comes on ; such as ipecacuanha, 20 grains, or sulphate of zinc, 20 grains. The root of the common Avens (Geum urbanum) also has been used in ague with success ; it enters into the composition of the Augsburg beer, which in some parts of Germany is • considered a preventive of ague. The root is boiled in water, and three table-spoonfuls of the infusion given every four hours. Cascarilla bark has also been employed in agues with advantage, when cinchona bark I could not be got. SuBSECT. 2. — Continued Fever. 7266. This disease has received various names according to intensity and modifying I circumstances ; popularly it is often termed, low, nervous, and in the worst forms. I putrid fever. Of all the common diseases, it is at once the most complex to observe and the most I difficult to treat. It has imprinted on it various forms by the season, climate, and epidemic agencies ; by 1 habit of body or mode of life; by cleanliness, or the reverse; by good living, or by 'scarcity of food ; by mode of employment and means of subsistence. It is sometimes a I mild disease, sometimes most severe and fatal. The early symptoms present to the un- Ipractised eye nothing distinctive. There are at first various feelings of languor, feeble- mess, and general illne.ss, with cold shiverings, loss of appetite, constipation and disturbed 'sleep, and two or three days afterwards, headache, pain in the back, and aching in the 1 limbs. In the course of a day or two, or not for a week, there ensue certain symptoms vwhich are often the first to be observed by the individual himself or his friends ; these ^are nausea and sickness, heat and dryness of skin, great headache, and pain in the limbs la dry and furred tongue, quick and full pulse, restlessness, and often a great feeling of tdistress, and with all this often a remarkable trembling, which causes the limbs to shake land totter during walking, and the tongue to quiver when protruded from the mouth. These symptom.s, popularly termed feverish, are by no means distinctive ; they may ^accompany almost any acute inflammation, and, though the educated eye of the physician ■ may be able to form a tolerably correct guess as to the nature of the case, we caunot ex- ppect, by any description, to enable our readers at once to distinguish the disease. We can 4 K