415 FISH. iChat. VI. vwater, and the fish sinks ; when it desires to rise, by relaxing the muscles connected witli ttbis bladder, it suffers the air within it to be expanded, and the fish becomes specifically Uiahter than the water, and ascends. The sole, flounder, and other flat fish, have no air- tbladder, and are therefore always at the bottom. 2155. Cud is brought from the Dogger bank and other places, and kept alive in the well- boats, or store-boats; some stout vessels, of eighty or a hundred tons burthen, having a ! large tank for preserving the fish alive. These boats remain as low as Gravesend, because ■ the water there is sufficiently salt; if they come higher up, the fresh water would kill the cfish; from the store-boats a portion is sent to Billingsgate by each night tide. 2156. Cod has been kept in salt water ponds in dift'erent parts of Scotland, and found to nmaintain their condition unimpaired. Of these ponds, there is one in Galloway, another I in Fife, and a third in Orkney. In these preserves the fish is regularly fed, and some- t times take the food from the hand. Vast quantities of cod are taken on the banks of Newfoundland, and brought to us ssalted, for an account of which, as well as the other method of curing fish, by di-ying, ^smoking, and pickling, see Book X. '• Preservation of Food." By all these methods of icui-ing fish, the digestibility is much impaired, and they are rendered unfit for invalids. SuBSECT. 9. — 77ie Haddock (^Gadus j^glifinus. Linn.). 2157. This fish is an inhabitant of the northern seas of Europe ; but it is remarkable I that it does not enter the Baltic, and is not known in the Mediterranean. It appears on I our coasts in December, and is then full of roe. Some are in season from August to 1 February. The haddock resembles the cod in some of its properties. The small ones, vwhen boUed, are less firm than the cod, and rather watei-y, but the larger fish are firm jand of a fine flavour. In general they do not exceed the height of ten or twelve inches, 'weighing two or three pounds, but they are known sometimes to grow to the size of three tfeet; when large they are coarse. They are better for being himg up for a day or two >with a sprinkling of salt. They are sometimes cured with salt, and dried ; and this is done [■particularly well at the fishing village of Findhom, near Aberdeen, by hanging them a iday or two in the smoke of peat. Firman haddocks (a corruption of Findhom) broiled aare much used at breakfast by the Scotch, and are esteemed a great delicacy. An imita- t tion of these, it is said, may be made by laying the fish in salt for two hours, letting the swater drain from them, and then washing them over with pyroligneous acid, and, lastly, 1 hanging them in a dry place for a few days. Haddocks have been kept in salt-water ponds, or preserves, and will become so tame as ! to feed from the hand. They are in season during the three last months of the year, SuBSECT. 10. — The Whiting {Gadus merlangus. Linn.). 2158. This fish is tender, delicate, extremely light, and easy of digestion ; perhaps the I most so of any of our salt-water fish. Whitings appear in large shoals in our seas in the ■ spring, keeping at the distance of about half a mile to that of three miles from the shore, 1 where they appear to come to deposit their spawn. They are taken by the line. Their 1 usual length with us is ten or twelve inches, and they seldom exceed a pound and a half i in weight; but on the edge of the Dogger bank they are found to weigh from four to t eight pounds. They are in highest season during the first two months of the year, though tthey are occasionally taken all the year round. They are not allowed to be caught when 1 less than six inches in length. The spawning season extends from March to September, s and towards the end of the year they recover and become good. In Cornwall whitings are salted and dried, and in winter sold in the markets under the t name of " Buckhom." 2159. The whiting pout (Gadus luxus. Linn.) is common about the mouth of the Thames, and generally all round our coasts; it is caught also in the northern seas. It much resembles the whiting, and is an excel- lent fish. It is most in season in November and December. 21G0. The whitingpoUach (Gadvs pollachiiis. Linn.) is caught all round our coasts, and is very common ; being somewhat like the whiting, it is sometimes mistaken by the inexperienced for that fish. Its flesh is delicate. SuBSECT. 11.— The Ling (Gadus Milva, Linn.). 2161. This fish is an inhabitant of the northern seas, and but little used in Britain as food. The ling in form nearly resembles the cod, but is more slender, and grows to the length of six or seven feet. It is taken in vast quantities off the Orkney, Shetland, and Western Isles, and is found also near the Scilly Isles, and off Flamborough Head. It only inhabits deep water. It is in perfection from February to the end of May; and they spawn in June, depositing their ova in the soft bottom. When they are less than twenty-six inches in length, they are called drizzles on the Yorkshire coast, and are consumed at home, being an excellent fish ; but when larger they are coarse ; they are salted, dried, and ex-