G72 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 3791. The pn'nciple of preserving ice itself depends upon suiTounding it with what are termed rion-cunducting substances, or substances which heat cannot pass through, for au account of which we refer the reader to Book 11. Chap. I., " On Heat." This is neces- sary in order to defend it from the common air of a temperature above the freezing point, and from moisture or water, which must necessarily be warmer than 32°. If ice could be kept always from the contact of other bodies of higher temperature than itself, or be surrounded by substances which beat could not pass through to reach it, it nmst always remain in the same state. But we know of no substances that are absolute non-conductors, and certain bodies receive that name only because heat passes them with very great difficulty. The substances of this kind are chiefly air, water, and materials of loose and porous texture, as wool, straw, charcoal, cork, wood, &c. Metals and hard stones allow heat to penetrate them with most facility, and consequently they are con- ductors of heat. 3792. The method of transporting ice and snow to a distance is very simple; it is only necessary to inclose them in some substances that are good non-conductors, as chaff, straw, woollen, &c. ; and if the package be put into a box an inch or two larger, and wedged in with pieces of cork, this would be a still farther security, when the quantity is small. It is in this manner that the Neapolitan peasants carry snow from the repositories on Vesuvius to Naples during the heat of summer. 3793. Jce preservers are chests of stout deal lined within with cork, as being a bad conductor of heat; into these a quantity of ice is put, to prevent going frequently to the ice-house. Ice may be kept in them for three weeks, in summer. If cork cannot be got easily, the sides of the ice preserver may be made double, with a space of two or three inches between, which space should be filled with charcoal reduced to powder, than which no better non-conductor is known. 3794. Ice pails are likewise kept for iceing creams, cooling wines, butter, &c. 3795. Ice may be kept in the open air for a year, by making a pile of it on dry ground (the north side of a hill is the best place) in a steep conical form of considerable size in winter during a hard frost, and covering it over, first a foot thick with a layer of fagot wood, then with another layer of straw, and lastly thatch. This should be placed on an elevated mound, or platform, raised on purpose that the water may drain off from it. If shaded by trees, or a shed roof, so much the better. If the pile be sprinkled occasionally with water while it is building, in frosty weather, the water will, by freezing, cement the masses of ice together, and make them last longer. The steeper the conical pile is made, the better. 3796. Ice may also be preserved in cellars, which should have no windows, and be pro- vided with double doors. The floor and sides of the cellar should be lined with straw; or a better method would be to form a framing of bars of wood for the floor and sides, insulated, and covered with straw. ICE-HOUSE. 3797. It has long been the custom here to connect the subject of an ice-house with that of the dairy ; and where the former is entirely detached, and at some distance from the house, the two may very properly be associated. The most usual mode of constructing an ice-house is the fol- lowing. A well is sunk in the ground in the form of an inverted cone, a b {fg. 568.), — which is lined with brickwork of a brick and a half thick, and arched over. Into this the ice is put, through an opening g, left in the top of the arch. A door is made on one side, c, for taking out the ice, or putting things in, and a drain, d e, is constructed from the bottom to carry off the water which is formed by the melting of the ice in summer. The advantage of the co- nical form of the well is supposed to be, that as fast as the ice thaws, the remainder slides down the sides of the cone, and still keeps in a compact body. Another advantage is, that the circular form of the cone is stronger than a square or any other shape, thus resisting better the pressure of the earth.