IJOOK 1. 14 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. besides causing much expenditure. If pointed arches are employed in the apertures, they create considerable embarrassment in the finishing of the interior; and even if thi windows are rectaugiJar, which they may be consistently with the style, yet these can scarcely admit of all the modern improvements in glass without destroying the ancient character which is wished to be kept up. If the house is to be Gothic, the furniture, or great part of it, should be in the same style, and generally must be made expressly for the place; hence another considerable source of useless expense, added to the giving up numerous modern improvements in so important a point of comfort. To this it may be added, that the designing all the details throughout of a Gothic mansion ought to be in- trusted only to architects who have made this style their particular study, otherwise the incongruities produced may be numerous. But notwithstanding what we have said, we are free to admit that, under the most favourable circumstances, Gothic architecture has a charm quite its own, but which it depends upon the architect to develop. Where ex- pense is not an object of consideration, and where certain associations of ideas give rise to its preference, it is far from being impossible for the skilful artist to unite much domestic convenience with agreeable and tasteful forms. Our arguments militate against its general, rather than its occasional introduction; but we consider it as a " sine qua uon," that if the style is to be Gothic, it should be so strictly, othenvise disgust and ridicule may be the result, which may be illustrated by the effect produced when ignorant persons attempt to imitate ancient costume. 40. The Tudor Style. — It has been often regretted that we have not amongst us a style of architecture that might be considered as peculiarly national. The high-pointed Gothic is common to Central Europe, and no country can claim it generally as its own. Although scarcely any remains exist of private domestic architecture of this style prior to the reign of Henry VIII., yet we have, as before mentioned, many manorial residences still tolera- bly perfect, and other examples of civil arcliitecture of the time of the royal race of the Tudors. Although some peculiarities may be perceived in the Gothic of each countrj-, this is, perhaps, more strikingly the case with respect to what has been teinned Tudor architecture, which is, upon the whole, much better suited for domestic buildings than the high-pointed and earlier Gothic; and for those whose associations of ideas incline them to wish for a style that may be considered as purely English, perhaps this has higher claims than any other, for it does not appear that it has been obsei-ved in other coun- tries precisely the same as with us. But we must confess that our own taste does not lead us to recommend it, either as peculiarly beautiful, or as being well adapted to convenience and comfoi't; in short, as having all those qualities of the first importance which we should desire in a private residence; and we think that the loss of, or any great deficiency in these, is too great a sacrifice in favour of any associations, or the mere revival of a style not in itself of a superior kind. But as this is only individual opinion, we of course leave every one to adopt or reject it; and we must likewise state that our objections are limited to erecting an entirely new house in that style ; for in the case of repairs of, or additions to, old mansions of Tudor times, the style should be strictly pre- served ; admitting, at the same time, that there are certain parts, as the oriel windows, which have great merit in every respect.