ClIAf. VI. FISH. 433 a parlen ; there is another much smaller, and without hairs (^Cancer mcmces), more frequent about the shore ; but this is a very poor watery animal, of a greenish colour, and eaten only by the more indigent classes of people. Orabs arefouud under large stones at low water, and are taken with a long stick having a hook at the end. Hut on a larger scale they are caught on the coasts of England and Scotland in water from three to five fathoms deep, by sinking wicker traps containing bait, consisting of heads and entrails of lish. Many are brought from Norway. The male crab has the claws larger than the female, and is therefore of greater value. The female has the apron large, broad, and easily opened: that of the male is much smaller ; and narrower. The best crabs have a considerable roughness on their claws ; those with smooth shells ; are not so good. The crab is peculiarly tenacious of life, and is capable of exerting a I considerable degree of muscular power after it has been removed two days from its : natural element. It is often alive and fit for the table, when, to all appearance, it seems to 1 be dead, if any spark of life remain, it will be exhibited by the creature's exertions to 1 keep the apron closed with its claws. Crabs, as well as lobsters, are apt to throw off their claws on the stimulus of any sudden 1 fright or pain, and therefore it is the practice, though a cruel one, in boiling them, to put I them into cold water, by which they die gradually as the heat increases. Crabs are in season all the year, except the months of May, June, and July ; and a few 1 may be had good at any time of the year. Our English crabs are entirely marine ; hut in other countries there are also fresh-water ! species; and in tropical climates land crabs are plentifiil. The land crab of the West Indies { (cancer ruricohi) lives in the mountains, and inhabits clifts in the rocks, hollow stumps Of t trees, and holes which they dig in the ground. Once a year they march down in a body tto the sea side for the purpose of depositing their spawn in the sea, and having accom- 1 plished this object, they bury themselves in holes in the ground and cast their shells. They are often found in this condition, and in a fattened state, and arc then highly prized . as a wholesome and delicious food. There are two varieties of the land crab in Jamaica, one white, and the other black. The black crab is found abundantly in the eastern and r northern marshes of the island during particular periods of the year ; it i^ of the blackness c of the lobster, and of a very light and handsome shape, as compared with any other -species; it is very active upon its legs, and runs fast. The white land crab is very J abundant in the low districts of the south side of the isLand: it is not so active in its [ movements as the black. SuBSECT. 3.— The Shrimp (Cancer crangon, Linn.). 2262. This lively little animal inhabits most sandy shores in Europe. It is too well liknown to the cook to require any description. As they are sold in London, they have ialmost always a great quantity of salt to make them keep, which overpowers their delicate Aand fine flavour. The Isle of Wight is famous for shrimps, where they are potted : but 1 those prepared for London are generally too much salted. 2263. The Frawn (Cancer squilla, Linn.) is very analogous to the shrimp, but larger, lifiner, and less common. SuBSECT. 4. — The Oyster. 22G4. Oysters are almost universally distributed near the shores in all latitudes, and .labound on the coasts of Britain and France, where they form a very important article ' of food. There are a great many species of oysters in other countries, but all those on rour shores that go by the name of the common oyster belong to one species, the Ostrea 'cdidis of Linnaius. The nervous system of the animal is limited to the facultit s of sense and touch, no • especial organs for seeing having been yet discovered. Each oyster is perfect of itself, liiiat is, capable individually of reproducing its kind. 2265. In the breeding season, which is in May, June and July, the ovary is filled with aa milky fluid, which contains a great number of ova or eggs, of a whitish colour. Oysters aare extremely prolific, and the young ones in the ova may be seen by the microscope lifloating in a viscid liquid. In May or June the young have reached their full size, Heave the ovaries, and are then called by the fishermen spaicn or spat. Oysters adhere not only to rocks, but to any solid bodies that their spawn may light iiupon when cast, as small stones, wood, sea plants, old oysters or other shells, and a thousand tthings which are found at times with oysters growing in them. The spawn appears at fifirst as a viscid matter, and is in great abundance ; but much of it is destroyed by fish and cirabs. The material at the bottom of the sea, to which the spawn adheres, is called by lithe fisherman cultch; and they are careful not to destroy it. Places that abound with F f