BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL 682 is fermented; after fermentation the liquor is distilled; and the spirit thus produced is the best arrack. 3852. Arrack from the juice of the palm is made in the following manner. The' species of palm from which the juice is obtained are the Borassus flabelliformis, Cocos nucifera, or cocoa-nut tree, or the date tree. The juice, when fresh drawn from an incision made in the stem, is a sweet, cooling, and wholesome beverage, called toddtj, and by the natives fan. It contains much sugar, which, when separated by boiling, is called jaggery. The sap in its natural state is brought to market in large quantities, but it becomes sour in three or four days. When fermented into an intoxicating liquor, it affords one of the best kinds of Indian arrack by distillation. The trees from which the toddy is obtaLaed are not suffered to bear any fruit. There are two ways of obtaining the toddy. One method is this: the person provides himself with a sufficient number of small earthen pots, resem- bling in form our glass bottles : he fastens several of these to his girdle, or to a belt across his shoulders, and climbs up the tall trunk of the cocoa tree, or other palm. Having reached the top of the tree, where the large leaves form a great bunch, he cuts off with a knife the small buds or monthly shoots from which the fruit would be produced, and applies immediately to the wound one of his bottles, which he fastens on with a string. In this manner he proceeds, till he has fixed the whole number of bottles in his girdle, which serve to receive the juice that flows out. This operation is generally performed in the evening, a greater quantity of juice flowing from the tree in the night than during the day. Another method is to make a perforation in the trunk of the tree, which is kept plugged up, unless when the gatherers are about to collect the sap. When put into vessels and kept out of the sun, the toddy undergoes the vinous fermentation, and is fit for distilling into arrack ; but if it be exposed to the sun, it passes into the acetous fermentation, and is changed into vinegar. 3853. The best arrack is the Batavian, called knap; next is the Madras : the Goa and Columbo are inferior. The common Pariah arrack is often made from jaggery, rendered more intoxicating by hemp leaves, the juice of stramonium, and poppy heads, and is dangerous to Europeans. The consumption of arrack in India is very considerable, although the Hindoos as well as the Mahometans are forbidden by their religions to use ardent spirits. Besides arrack, the natives of India distil intoxicating liquors from various plants ; one made from the date palm is of great antiquity : Herodotus mentions it as one of the principal articles of commerce in Babylonia. A very lad imitation of arrack, made out of rum, is recommended by Dr. Kitchener, in his " Cook's Oracle," (p. 497.) under the name of "mock arrack." " Dissolve two scruples of flowers of benjamin (benzoic acid) in a quart of good rum, and it will imme- diately impart to it the inviting fragrance of " Vauxhall nectar." Whether " Vauxhall nectar" was so composed, we have no means of determining. SuBSECT. 6.—Proof Spirit. The mode of judging of the strength of spirituous liquors by the taste is not always to be depended upon, as a false appearance of strength is sometimes given to a weak liquor by the infusion of acrid and pungent substances. 3854. By the excise laws at present existing in the British islands, a duty is paid on spirituous liquors, such as brandy, rum, arrack, gin, whiskey, &c., in proportion to their strength; and the strength of these liquors depends upon tlie quantity of alcohol which tliey contain. Pure spirit, or alcohol, is considerably lighter than water; a mixture of alcohol and water will of course be lighter than water alone ; from which it is evident that the more alcohol any liquor contains, the lighter it must be. Hence, the quantity of alcohol in a mixture of it with water, or, in other words, its strength, may be determined by its com- parative weight, or specific gravity. See Alcohol in " Fermentation," Book VIII. Chap. II. .1. 3855. In order to compare the degrees of sti-ength of various kitids of spirit, the excise has established one degree of strength as a legal standard, and this they call proof or proof spirit. " This liquor (not being spirit sweetened, or having anj' ingredient dissolved in it to defeat the strength thereof), at the temperature of 51° Fahr., weighs exactly \l of an equal measure of distilled water." Its specific gravity is -930. 3856. The strength of spirituous liquors, when greater or less than tliis, is said to be above or below proof; and, iii the latter case, is estimated by the quantity of water which would be necessary to bring the spirit up to the weight of proof. 3857. As it is necessari/ to have an accurate mode of ascertaining the strength of spirits, particularly in case of piirchasing a large quantity, various means have been resorted to, to determine this. Tlie most accurate mode, and the only one to be depended npon, m by the instrument called the hydrometer, which ascertains the specific gravity of the liquid.