966 Book XVII. FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. curtains, covers for sofas, chairs, &c. It is in ricli and elegant patterns in imitation of sillc damask. 5682. Bomhazet is plain and twilled, with warp of single thread, pressed and finished without glazing. Width, 21 or 22 inches. 5683. Tammies, or durmits, with single warps, are twilled, and generally coarser than twilled bombazets. Width from 32 to 36 inches. They are highly glazed : mostly used for women's petticoats. 5684. Callimanco is nearly the same ; plain, highly glazed, twilled, or raised in stripes: used for petticoats. 5685. Shalloon is a loosely woven stuff with a twill, much used for lining various articles of dress. Width from 32 to 36 inches. The name is probably derived from Chalons in France. It is of various colours. 5686. Cubica is a very fine kind of shalloon. 5687. Serge is a twilled stuff, of various colours, manufactured in the manner of ratteen; much used for linings of clothes, particularly cloaks. One sort has one side smooth and the other woolly. The longest wool is chosen for the warp, and the shortest for tlie woof; the former being more twisted than the latter. 5088. Plaid.— This term is often applied in England to the colour of stuifs, whereas the term means a peculiar ancient dress worn in the Highlands of Scotland, and was merely an oblong piece of stuff wrapped round the body to defend the wearer from rain. It is always made of a checkered pattern of various colours, there called Tartan. Tartan is the name of the colour; plaid is that of the dress. Instead, therefore, of saying "plaid ribbands," we should say " Tartan ribbands." The true Scotch plaid is a coarse strong stufl^, well calculated to keep out the wet, and is still used by some persons in Scotland, and particularly by our Highland regiments. The stripes and squares formerly varied in their patterns and colours according to each clan; but this distinction is now little attended to. Modern luxury has imitated the pattern of tartan in silk. Tartan, or, as it is called, plaid, of worsted, is made in various parts of England, and is occasionally used as a cheap and useful material for cloaks. 5689. Camlet was originally an oriental manufacture, a stuff made from the fine hair of the camel: but another material is also used, the hair of the Angora goat, which is of remarkable beauty, being milk white, glossy, formed into long spiral ringlets, and ex- ceedingly soft. Angora is a district in Asia Minor, where almost all the inhabitants are employed in the manufacture and commerce of camlets. We have no camlets made in Europe of goat's hair alone. In Brussels, which excels in the manufacture of this article, they find it necessary to mix woollen thread with the hair. Camlets in imitation of the genuine are made all of closely-twisted worsted yarn, or of worsted and silk, or of these with hair. In some, the warp is silk and worsted twisted together, and the woof hair. It is both plain and twilled. What is known here by the name of mohair is made of worsted and hair : it is superior to the common, and is used chiefly for military cloaks. An inferior article, made all of worsted j'arn strongly twisted, is also called camlet, and is used for ordinary cloaks. Camlet was formerly much in wear; and, from its thick- ness and warmth, is well calculated for winter clothing for females. It turns the wet better than any other unprepared stuff. 5690. Mousseline de laine. — This is anew species of woollen fabric, of an extremely light texture, first introduced into this country about three or four years ago. It was at first wholly imported from France on payment of a heavy duty, and was sold at a price only within the reach of the wealthier classes ; it is now manufactured in this country at a much cheaper rate. It possesses an advantage, that with great elegance of appearance, it does not ignite on coming into contact with flame, like muslins or chintzes. A mixed fabric is likewise made in imitation of it, composed of cotton and wool. 5691. Challis, an elegant, twilled, fine woollen fabric, used for ladies' dresses, orna- mented with coloured flowers, which have much the eflbct of velvet painting. 5692. Carpets and druggets have been described under " Furniture," Book V. Chap. X. Sect. III. 5693. Shawls are an important jiart of eastei-n dress, and in Asia, among the Arabs, people of FgypN and Persia and other countries, are woi-n by men as well as women. The finest shawls in the world are made in Cashmere in India: the genuine Cashmere shawl of the finest quality is very costly, and sells in London for from 100/. to 200/. The material of which they are made is a .species of fine hair or wool that giws on a goat which is a native of Thibet, a region which, though situated between the tropics, is yet extremely cold, from its height above the sea. The animal has two kinds of hair ; one long and coarse, and another extremely fine, soft, and silky, like down, close to the skin ; of the latter the shawls are made. The down produced by a male is about four ounces, and by a female about two ounces. It is estimated that one shawl fifty-four inches square requires two pounds of down, and will therefore require the produce of ten goats. The real Cashmere shawls are woven by the natives of the country, and by the Hindoos, in a very simple manner, but become expensive from the slowness of the opera-