863 SI YLE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE TABLE. Chap. I. be fairly suspected that they are of the last year's importation, or are of Spanish growth, and not the product of the genuine vines of Zante or Ceplialonia. 4869. Arrow-root.— In the purchase of this article it should be observed that "when very smooth and floury it may be suspected to contain some portion of the starch either of wheat or potatoes; which, although not injurious, does not possess all the valuable qualities ascribed to the genuine arrow-root, in thickening and jellying properly the liquid with which it is prepared for use. A tea-spoonful of real arrow-root will thicken a tea- cupful of hot water or milk, while double the quantity of adulterated arrow-root would be required to jelly the same quantity of liquid. The pure arrow-root is from 2a-. erf. to 3s. 6rf. per lb. 4870. Ginger is of two kinds; the superior is called white ginger, the inferior black. (For the difference between them, see Book VII. Chap. X.) 4871. Pepper should not be purchased in large quantities by any one who has not a quick consumption of it, as the strength of it, especially when ground, is constantly lessened by exposure to the air. Cayenne pepper is sometimes adulterated; see Book VII. Chap. X. Of cloves, such should be selected as have a strong fragrant odour, and a hot, aromatic, yet pungent taste. Nutmegs are chosen by weight, the heaviest being the best. Mace, when good, is very unctuous to the touch, flexible, and thin; it resembles the nutmeg (of which it is the outer coating) in odour and taste, but is not equally pungent. In the purchase of cin- namon it is necessary to know that a spurious kind is often sold called cassia. The distinctive marks between cinnamon and cassia are chiefly these : cinnamon is pliable, and breaks in long splinters ; cassia is brittle, and when broken, the fracture is not splin- tered, but closes, and reveals two distinct coatings, the inner one of which is dark, and possesses a fragrance similar to that of the cinnamon, the outer coating being paler in colour, and utterly tasteless. Cinnamon is thin as paper, the cassia thick and spongy. 4872. Candles, excluded from the light, and stored in a cool yet dry place, are generally improved by a year's keeping. Moulds are of various thicknesses ; thi-ee to the pound are the largest usually made for domestic use; short fours are the next size ; then follow in thickness long fours, short sixes, middling sixes, long sixes, and eights. These last are chiefly used as bed-room lights, or to carry about a house. The dips are from four to sixteen to the pound. The moderate size of the tens or twelves are such as serve best for kitchen and pantry use, and to carry about a house where oil and lamps are not used. Wax candles improve by keeping; and exposure to the light, which is injurious to taUow, blanches them. Spermaceti candles are considerably cheaper. See the different kinds of candles described in Book IV. Chap. III. 4873. Soap is an article better bought wholesale than retail. It improves in quality by being kept. It is seldom bought in a dry state. The dealer in soap is aware of the advantage he gains by storing it in damp places from the moisture, which adds materially to its weight. Soap, when in a proper state, should contain no more than thirty parts in a hundred of water : by nefarious management, an unfair dealer will make it to hold sixty ; consequently, when the purchaser has it cut into pieces and laid on open shelves to render it dry and hard, it sustains a considerable loss in weight. For the laundry and household use there are three kinds: the hard yelloiv, the soft, and the haid mottled soap. On the subject of Soaps, see Books XIX. and XXII. Sect. II. STYLE AND MANAGEMENT OF THE TABLE. SuBSECT. 1 Carving. 4874. Carving in primitive, as in modern times, was the olEce of the master of a feast. In the days of Roman refinement, carving became a distinct office in each distinguish^ family. In modern times the office of carver has not been unknown ; and in Royal establishments it has, in some instances, been hereditary. In France, skill in carving, from the description of the dishes served, is scarcely necessary ; and thence the task has fallen on the principal attendants at table, a custom gradually finding its way into dis- tinguished and fashionable circles in this country. Fifty years ago the art of carving was regarded by the most polished society in this country as the indispensable accomplish- ment of every lady who had to preside at the head of her table. It was a reflection upon her fitness for that post to say that she managed the carving knife with little skill, or was ignorant of the choice parts of each dish. A dillerent opinion has since been introduced by fashion ; and the oiiice of carving assigned to gentlemen chiefly, on the ground that in good society, of which right feelings should be the spirit, all trouble and inconvenience ♦3 I 3