Book VII. 434 ON FOOD. sea-wec'ds or mud are not favourable to the propagation of oysters. It is conjectured that in twenty-four hours the spat begins to have a shell. If an oyster happens to be cast on shore, it soon dies; but if deposited in places -which are flooded at high water, they will keep their shells closed when it ebbs, and thus preserve their existence. When oysters are recently taken up from places that are never left dry by the sea, they open their shell, lose their water, and die in a few days ; but if kept iu reservoirs in which they are left occasionally by the sea, exposed to the rays of the sun, or to severe cold, or when they are disturbed in their beds, they acquire the habit of keeping the shell close when they are uncovered with water, and exist without injury for a long time. 2266. Oysters, being fixed to the roch or some solid body, are usually supposed to have no power whatever of locomotion; nevertheless, it is said that they do possess this iji a s-niall degree, by means of an organ called the foot, which is composed of various layers of fibres, that by their contraction bestow on it the power of motion. A very strong muscle, which is always cut across when the oyster is opened with the knife, named the adductor muscle, is attached to the interior opposite sides of the valves or shells; when this muscle is in a state of contraction, the shells are kept closed, and when the muscle relaxes, the shells open. When the animal dies, this muscle, of course, loses its power, and the shell gapes. The oyster has many enemies which prey upon it, notwithstanding its shelly defence : the asteria, or sea star, clasps its arms or rays round the shell, and forces it open: crabs and lobsters are also destructive to a bed of oysters. 2267. Oyster shells are composed of carbonate of lime, cemented by animal matter of an albuminous nature : in some places they are burned for lime. A century ago they were employed medicinally calcined, though they are now considered as no way different from any other carbonate of lime. 2268. The oyster fishery is so important in Britain, that it is regulated by the Admiralty Court. In the month of May, the fishermen have liberty to take every kind of oyster, whatever be their size. When they have collected them, they gently raise with a knife the small brood from the cultch, and then they throw the latter in again, to preserve the ground for the future, unless they have so much spat that they cannot be severed from the cultch, in which case they are permitted to take the stone or shells which the spat is upon, one shell having often twenty spats. The spat is then carried to creeks of the sea where the water is stLU, and thrown there in order that they may grow large and fat, and that they may be easily obtained when wanted. In eighteen months they are grown sufficiently to be brought to market, but are not in perfection untU about two or three years. The oysters are sick after they have cast their spawn in May, and they are then unfit for food ; in June and July they begin to mend, and in the beginning of August they are recovered : on the fourth of that month they are pennitted to be brought to the London market. All the winter they continue to be taken, and the oyster season terminates on the 12th of May. 2269. TTie oysters fattened in artificial beds are young, and generally reckoned the most delicate; but some persons prefer those that grow upon their native rocks, as having a higher flavour. Although oysters are among the natural productions of our coasts, yet this source is not entirely depended upon; but young oysters, of a size not exceeding a penny piece, are obtained from various parts, and carefully planted in the artificial beds. The method of forming these artificial oyster beds was known to the ancient Romans, who were exceedingly fond of this fish. The beds are mentioned by Pliny as the invention of one Sergius Orata. It is not a little remarkable that the finest oysters eaten in ancient Rome were fed in the channel which then separated the Isle of Thanet from England, and which has since then been filled up, and is now converted into meadows. It is extremely probable that the custom of forming oyster beds has been continued on our coasts ever since. Oysters have been reared in beds ever since the times of the Romans in the Lake Facino, on the coast of Baia near Naples, as described by Count Lasteyrie ; this lake communicates with the sea by a narrow passage ; along the margin of the lake are placed circles of reeds with their summits above the water; the spawn of the oyster attaches itself to these reeds, and grows there till of an edible size; the reeds are pulled up and examined, and the full-grown oysters are removed, and put into the reserve till wanted : the small sized and spawn are with the reeds put back again. It requires two years before the oysters come to their full size. 2270. The means adopted for fattening oysters, when transplanted, is one of the chief causes of their excellence. Nearly all the oysters brought to London have been so im- proved. The breeding places are generally held on leases by a copartnery, consisting of a considerable number of individuals ; and disputes often occur between the lessees of an oyster bed and the fishermen. In some places, the latter contend that imfair modes rtf dredging are practised ; and also, that from those parts of the coast where no peculiar rights exist, the brood is carried away, and planted in the beds, which are protected by