RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Chap. I. 893 gar, which would destroy the colour. It is served with lobster sauce. Small trout are better broiled, but served with the same sauce as the boiled. When trout have been kept for a davortwo, they are excellent if marinated, broiled, and eaten with Dutch or Quin's sauce. 5074. Eds. — The river eel is always to be selected, as those taken from ponds are muddy, and possess a disagreeable taste. They may be simply boiled, either whole or crimped, and eaten with parsley and butter sauce. Another method is, by placing them to the fire on a steel wire, or fine spit, usually called spitchcocked, — a term evidently cor- rupted from spit-cooked. With large eels, which always abound with oil, this is the preferable method, as the oil is drained out by the fire. When done in this manner they may be served with catsup, anchovy, caper, Dutch, or Quin's sauces. Eels are also fried, when they are to be dipped in beaten egg, and covered with crumbs of bread and chopped sweet herbs. These may be eaten with any of the above-mentioned sauces; but capers coarsely chopped and served in some of their own vinegar, without butter, is the most appropriate sauce. 5075. Matelotte of eels. —To prepare this dish properly, let the pieces of eel intended for the matelotte be spitchcocked till three parts done. In the mean time, prepare the fol- lowing sauce: Beat a couple of anchovies in a mortar with the yolks of two boiled eggs, a little grated lemon-peel, half a tea-spoonful of minced eschalot, and two tea-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms ; moisten this with veal stock or consomme till the mixture acquires the thickness of cream. Put this in the stew-pan, with sufficient additional stock to cover the eels, which are to be gently stewed till done. At the bottom of the dish lay pieces of fried bread, moistened with lemon-juice ; add to the sauce sufficient cayenne pepper and salt, a glass of port wine, and a table-spoonful of Quin's sauce ; pour this over the fish. — N. B. If any oily matter extracted from the eels should float on the surface of the sauce, let it be carefully skimmed. For ordinary occasions, eels may be stewed with less trouble and expense by boiling them in little water, till three parts done, and employing this liquor as the basis of the sauce ; to which may be added some chopped parsley and minced eschalot, a table-spoonful of reduced catsup, sufficient pepper and salt, with some thick- ening of flour and butter. 5076. Collared eels. — After large eels are skinned, take out the bones; season them on the inside with salt and spices, and strew over them parsley, eschalot, and lemon-peel, finely chopped : then roll them up, and bind them tightly with some tape. Stew them till sufficiently done in veal broth; aftei-wards reduce the broth, add some isinglass, two table-spoonfuls of white wine, and the same quantity of vinegar, with a little cayenne pepper. When the isinglass has dissolved, skim the liquor free from all fat, and clear it with an egg ; pass it hot through a strainer, and when cold it will be a savoury jelly. Remove the tapes from the eels, and serve them up surroimded and covered with the jelly broken into pieces. 5077. Pike may be plainly boiled, or cut into junks, marinated, and fried. They may- be eaten with any sauce. .5078. An excellent method of cooiing them. — Take two pikes, weipliing from six to eight pounds each ; after they are scaled and emptied, dissci't out Ilje flesh and bone, leaving the head and tail attached to the skin ; puk off the flesh from the bodies of both, avoiding all the small forked bones, which in this fish are very numerous. When this is done, beat the separated flesh in a mortar, with three anchovies, the yolks of four eggs, and a pound of butter ; mix in a good quantity of chopjied parsley, some few sweet herbs, minced eschalots, black popper and salt, and form the whole into a mass with sutRcient white and yolk of egg. In- troduce tins into the skin of one of the pikes, and sow it up neatly. I'rirk the skin in a ifcw places with a sharp fork, and roast it till done before a brisk fire; it will require nearly an hour. Put into the dripping- pan a pint or pint and half of cider, with which it is to be frequently basted, and the remainder of this will be the proper sauce for the fish, with a little cayenne. .5071). Perch. — Like all fresh-water fish, perch may be simply boiled and fried. They are, however, most esteemed when dressed as vater-souchi/. Where perch are abuntlant. pick out the smallest fish, and when they arc cleaned, cut them into pieces, and boil them slowly with some parsley roots, whole pepper, and salt, until you obtain a strong broth. Strain this through fine muslin, pick out tho parsley roots, slice them, and return them to the strained liquor, in which the larger perch, previously crimped, are to be boiled. Towards the end of the process introduce a few bunches of parsley that have been scalded in salt and water to preserve their green colour. They require no sauce, the broth being, with the addition of some salt and pepper at table, fully sufBcient. Serve them in a deep dish, .and send up with them slices of brown bread and butter. .5OH0. Flounders are prepared in the same manner as water-souchy. WHl. Carp—Carp, though occasionally simply boiled and served with a sauce of anchovy, parsley and butter, is considered to be a fish requiruig stewing in rich gravy to make it worthy of a place on the table. It must be first carefully cle.ansed through a small opening made in the belly without damaging the scales. The gills are then taken out, the tongue kept in its place. I'laee the carp in a kettleth.it will justhold it, and sprinkle it with hot red vinegar, to give it a blue colour. Fry with butter, and till brown, two or three carrots, two onions, and some parsley ; to these add a bottle of port, and half as much water. Tie up a bunch of parsley, a li:iy-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and some basil. Stew all together for an hour ; strain oil the gravy; dish the carp on a napkin, aiul serve it with anchovy sauce. 5082. Tench m.ay be cooked in the same w,ay. SunsECT. 3. — Shellfish. 5083. Lnhstr.rs. — Fill a fish-kettle with salt and water, the proportion of salt being a table-spoonful to a quart of water.; when boiling hot, put in the lobster, and, according to its size, boil it briskly from half an hour to an hour. Wlien it is done, wipe oft' the scum from the shell, and rub over it a little butter or sweet oil. When cold, break off the