FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. Chap. IX. 487 I i 4 26G4. Homer describes the apple as one of the precious fruits of his lime, and it was cul- tivated "and highly esteemed among the Romans, who brought it from the East, and set an extraordinary price upon fine bearing trees. The best varieties are natives of Asia, and have been introduced into Europe by grafting upon others. The only variety indi- genous to Britain is the austere crab apple of our hedges ; but the cultivated kinds were introduced at an early period. During the Saxon heptarchy Somersetshire and Devon- shire were called the apple country, and there were large plantations near Glastonbury. Some apple trees in Herefordshire now existing are said to be a thousand years old, and many varieties were vmdoubtedly brought over by the Normans in the time of William the Conqueror. The varieties of the apple have been prodigiously increased in this country, this fruit having a peculiar tendency to change by circumstances connected with its cultivation. Parkinson, in 1629, enumerates fifty-seven sorts. Evelyn, about thirty years afterwards, states that " it was through the plain industry of one Harris, a fruiterer to Henry VIII., that the fields and environs of about thirty towns in Kent only were planted with fruit from Flanders, to the universal benefit and general improvement of the county." Hartlet, in 1650, speaks of "one who had 200 sorts of apples," and "verily ' believes there are nearly 500 sorts in this island." Since that time there has been a continual accession of sorts received from the Continent, as well as numerous varieties raised from seeds. The last catalogue of fruits, published by the Horticultural Society of London in 1831, enumerates 1400 sorts of apples, and those which have been acquired since that time would extend the list to 1500. Of no other fruits are there so many excellent varieties in general cultivation, suited to almost every soil which our island affords. Some sorts are ripe in the beginning of July ; others ripen much later ; those which ripen latest are the best. 2665. Apple trees will not grow in tropical countries, but, like the oak, extend from the tropics to the latitude of 60°, and are not to be found in Lapland. The apple is there- fore the growth of temperate and rather cold climates only. It has been supposed, and the opinion was supported by Mr. Knight, that many of the oldest varieties of apples known to our ancestors are worn out, and others are now in a state of debility ; thus the celebrated golden pippin, which was fonnerly the common cyder apple of the Hereford orchards, is now preserved with difficulty in our gardens. This opinion, however, has been controverted. Apples are divided into those which, from sweetness, are fit for eating, called eating or table apples; those which are proper for pies, tarts, &c., termed kitchen or baking apples ; and those for making cyder, or ci/der apples. The best baking apples are the Colvilles, for early use ; the rpnnets and pearmains, for autumn ; the russets, and Padley's pippins, for winter and spring. For dessert apples, Margarets, for early use ; Pomeroy, summer pearmain, and Kentish codlin, for summer use; golden, Dowton, and other pippins, especially the ribstone, with the nonpareil, and other small russets, for autumn, winter, and spring. Some apples are not eatable until kept some time. 2666. All apples contain sugar, malic acid, or the acid of apples, mucilage or gum, woody fibre, and water, together with some aroma, on which their peculiar flavour depends ; and their different qualities may be traced to the different proportions of their principles. The hard acid kinds are unwholesome if eaten raw ; but by the process of cooking a great deal of this acid is decomposed, and converted into sugar. The sweet and mellow kinds form a valuable addition to the dessert, and they are employed in the composition of marmalades, jellies, &c.; and from the juice is prepared a drink useful in fevers. A great part of the acid juice of the apple is converted into sugar as the fruit ripens, and even after it is gathered, by a natural process termed maturation, an account of which is given in the article " Preservation of Fruit." On the contrary, when apples decay, the sugar is changed into a bitter principle, and the mucilage becomes mouldy and offensive. As in apples more than half consists of water, and as the rest of the ingredients are not of the most nutritive kind, this fruit cannot rank high as food ; it is chiefly useful as an agreeable acid-sweet summer fruit. When cooked it is considered as slightly laxative, and therefore a useful adjunct to other food: this is probably the origin of apple sauce so common with pork, ducks, and goose. The raw fruit is not advisable for dyspeptic persons. Old cheese has a remarkable effect in meliorating them when eaten, probably from the volatile alkali or ammonia of the cheese neutralising their acid. ScBSECT. 2.—Fear {Pyrus communis, Linn.). 2667. The pear, like the apple, is indigenous to this country; but the wild pear is a very austere fruit. The best varieties have been brought from the East by the Romans, who cultivated them with care, and probably introduced some of their best sorts into this island, to which others were added by the inhabitants of monasteries. The Dutch and Flemings, as well as the French, have excelled in the cultivation of the pear and most