DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. Book XVIIL 1024 6062. Formerly button motilils wore iisually covered with threads of gold, silver, silk, and other costiv materials, wound over the mould in a peculiar and ornamental way ; this employed a great many hands and when the present method of covering them with cloth or mohair was introduced, n great outcri-was ra'ibf'd on account of the number of persons which it threw out of employment; and it is not generally known that a penalty of from 40*. to 5/. per dozen attached to any person who shall cover button moulds w-iil the same cloth as the coat. 6063. Custom alone has made us consider the number of buttons with which our coats are studded as orna- mental ; but they are on many accounts inconvenient, particularly in brushing the clothes. Formerly when metal buttons were generally worn, their manufacture, particularly at Birmingham, was immense-'of the various kinds m use, it is still very considerable, but extremely variable from the inconsUncy of fashion CHAP. IX. VARIOUS OTHER ARTICLES CONNECTED WITH DRESS. 6064. Sewmg needles. —History is silent with respect to the invention of that useful im- plement, the needle : but it is said that those used at present, made of steel, at first called Spanish needles, were introduced in the reign of Queen Elizabeth. Whitechapel in London, Redditch in Gloucestershire, and Hatherage in Derbyshire, are the places most noted for their manufacture ; and, considering the excellence" of their workmanship, the small price at which they are sold is truly surprising. 6065. Needles are made of steel wire : a coil of such wire, in its soft state, is cut by a large pair of shears into lengths of four or five inches. The bundles of lengths are first to be made quite straight; which is done by putting a ring over each end, laying the bundle on an iron table, and rolling it backwards and forwards by a B it piece of iron placed upon it. The pieces, cut into the proper lengths for needles, are next to be pointed: this operation is performed by the workman holding two or three dozen at a time upon a dry grinding stone, each wire revolving while in contact with the stone. In consequence of the minute particles of steel which are evolved in a cloud during this operation, and which are necessarily inhaled by the workmen, needle grinding is found to be an employment extremely prejudicial to health. Of late years, several contrivances have been resorted to in order to remedy this evil; but it is said that it is dilBcult to persuade the sufferers themselves to use them. The eye of the needle is generally perforated by women : the end of the wire is flattened by the blow of a hammer, and the perforation is made by a steel punch, the groove where the eye is placed being made by a particular file. The needles, now i)erforated, again require straightening by a" process similar to what was described at the commencement. They arc next to be hardened, as hitherto the steel has been in the soft state. For this purpose several thousands of them are placed in a cast-iron receptacle, in n hich they are covered with ashes to prevent oxidisation, heated to a cherry red, and afterwards tempered to a blue colour. Again they require straightening, and then are scoured bright; tliis is performed by collecting them in regular tiers in a strong cloth, each tier being sejiarated by some fine emery, oil, and soft soap. Thn parcel, being then tied round with strings, is placed under a loaded box like a common mangle, by the motion of which backwards and forwards, for two or three da^'s, the needles are rubbed against one another, and the whole come out clean and bright. Lastly, they aro picked and sorted, the heads all one way, ready for 5.ale. 6060. Needles called gold-eyed, silver-eyed, and arilled-eyed, are recommended, as not being so liable to cut the thread. The first are gilt by dipping the heads and'eyes in an ethereal solution of gold. The so- called silver-eyed have not a particle of silver, but have their peculiar appearance from a particular kind of polish. The drilled-eyed alone constitute a real improvement, as the sides of the eyes are smoothed after punching, and tliese are really less liable to cut the thread : the eye is circular, instead of being rectangular as in common needles. The exquisite polish and sharpness of points which the best needles possess is the consequence of a still more careful operation, by polishing them upon a fine stone. The cheapness of the common sort of needles has often excited surprise, particularly when we consider the excellence of their workmanship ; but this is a striking instance of the advantage of a subdivision of labour, every sewing needle passing through the hands of 120 difl'erent operatives, during its manufacture, before it is ready for sale; whereas if each needle was begun and finished by the same person, the price of these useful articles would be immensely greater. 6067. The principal varieties of needles are — crown or common; Whitechapel; royal improved; best London ; best Chappie ; best sorted Chappie; bhtnts, used by glovers and tailors ; yarn, looping, and knilling needles; Il'illia9ns's, Davis's, Sheppard's, ;;iid Boullon's. (These are sold in ))apers containing 25 each.) Vorsled darners, stouter and longer, and the eye larger than the cotton ; packine needles. 6068. An instrument called a needle threader has been l.itely invented, which is found to be extremely useful to those whose sight is not very good. A small hole is' bored longitudinally in a piece of wood or metal.of theslzeof a thick black lead pencil (a, fig. 790.), into which the needle, 6, to bo threaded is placed with its eye downw.-irds: a hole, c, is m.-idc in the side of the threader just oppo-^ite the place where the eye of the needle will reach to; and this hole is made conical, spreading outwards. Although it might be difficult to see the eye of thb needle itself out of the threader, yet there can be no difficulty in seeing this conical aper- ture, and to direct the thread into it; but as soon as tlic point of the thread is pushed into it, it cannot fail to pass'through the eye of the needle, which may then be drawn out threaded. It is obvious th.it a single threader cm only suit one size of needle. This ingenious instrument is sold by Wilks, 186. Regent Street, London ; price two shillings. 60G9. Pins, .inch as we vow use, seem to have been unknown in England till about the middle of the fifteenth century. Previous to that time, pins were made of ivory, bone, box-wood, and a few of silver, and they were necessarily of large size; and brooches and hooks and eyes were much employed for holding together the parts of dress. In 1543 the manufacture of modern pins had become so considerable as to claim the attention of the legislature ; and in 1626 it was introduced into Gloucestershire, which is at present noted for it.