644 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII; stones of the size of shot, which would answer the purpose quite qs well. Sand or angular pebbles will scratch the bottles. Bottles are best if quite new ; but if thoroughly cleaned, they will continue to answer sufficiently. It is much best to wash them as soon as they are empty, and to drain them by hanging with the neck downwards. If they should have contracted a musty smell they may be fumigated by a lighted brimstone match put inside, first washing them ; after which they should be washed again. In bottling, the cork should be so long in the nose ■ as fairly to enter into the neck of the bottle to prevent spilling, or contact with the air. Nothing should be bottled that is not quite fine, and the fermentation over; otherwise the bottles may burst, particularly if they are not kept in a very cool place. 3616. For the process qj corking, when the wine runs clc-ir, place a shallow tub under the tap of the cask, a.nA take care that there be two or three small holes near the bung, or in it, to allow the air to enter to supply the place of the wine drawn. All being ready, hold the bottle close under the tap in a leaning position. Fill the bottle to within two inches of the top of the neck, so that when the cork comes in there may remain three quarters of an inch of space between the wine and the lower end of the cork. The corks should be dipped, not soaked in wine, and shoidd enter with difficulty ; they are driven in with a woodco mallet. If the corks are soaked all over before they are driven, they are apt to shrink too much in drying, and not be tight. If the cork is to be waxed, it must be cut off close or to less than a quarter of an inch. Champagne bottles sometimes have their corks driven but half-way, and are fixed down by a wire; this makes them easy to draw. It is best to cut off the cork close to the glass, and to cover the whole top with cement, to prevent'the air from passing between that and the cork. Insects also abound in some cellars, which eat through the corks. 3617. For the cement, resin, with half the quantity of Burgundy pitch, and a fourth of bees'-wax, with a small portion of any colouring substance, is used by the French manufacturers: or, melt carefully together a pound of resin, one of bees'-wax, and half a pound of tallow, and keep stirring all the while. Add to this red or yellow ochre, soot, or whiting, according to the colour required. If likely to boil over, stir with a candle end, which will check the ebullition. The end of the bottle-necks are dipped into this mixture melted. While a cask of wine is bottling off", it is impossible to exclude the admission of air to the surface of the liquor, except some particular method is employed ; and if the operation last some time, the wine, especially if it be of a very delicate or superior kind, is certain to be injured. To prevent this, a method is frequently employed on the Continent which enables them to draw off the last drop in full perfection, without hurrying the bottling ; and, indeed, by this method it may be drawn off slowly for drinking. A bottle of fine olive oil is poured into the cask, which, fioating upon the surface of the wine, totally excludes the air, and prevents any acidity or mouldiness for a whole year. In a similar manner the Italians preserve wine in flasks by putting a small quantity of olive oil in the necks of the flasks. 3618. The crust, or precipitation of wine in bottles is only the continuation of that which began in the vat, and which is called lees, and it varies according to the species of wine, and its age, from the coarse crust of port to the depot de pierre of Champagne, or the almost invisible sediment in some other wines. This deposit consists of tartar, either red or white, and colouring matter. Those wines which deposit freely are observed to be the most durable. When they deposit much they should be decanted into fresh bottles, in case of removal, or the deposit may mix with and injure the wine. 3619. TTie various operations in the cellar, as fining, bottling, corking, sealing the wine, and placing it in the blnns and entering it into a book, is the duty of the butler and his assistants. The business should be carefully arranged and divided, and the names of each sort of wine should be painted on the binn containing it to prevent mistakes. 3620. Wine, to be fit for bottling, must not only be separated from the gross lees, and have attained perfect clearness by fining ; it must remain for a certain time in the cask, to ripen, as il is called, by which its princi- ples are more intimately combined.. 3621. T/ie time which wine reqttircs to be kept in wood for its amelioration, and consequently the time when it is fit for bottling, differs with the character of the wine ; but no precise rules can be laid down ; the taste alone can determine the maturity of wines. They should not be bottled till they have lost their sharpness, and are no longer liable to fermentation. Age, therefore, is not a criterion for the excellence of all wines. When wine is bottled too soon, it often ferments, and remains alw.iys sharp ; and wine, in general, receives most benefit by remaining long in the cask before it is bottled. But though it improves likewise in the bottle, there is a limit to this term, and each variety has a period when it arrives at maturity, and when it should be drunk; after this it does not improve, but may be kept some time in the same conditmn, and .ifter this it de- teriorates. Some lose their strength .ind colour, others their fine bouquet and agreeable aroma, for which the highest class of wines are distinguished. ,. , . . . ■ 3622. Most of the French wines, .is Champagne, Burgundy, and Medoc, are short lived; but others, havmg more body, will keep for a long time. White wines may be bottled, for the most part, earlier than the red, and so may the light muscadines ; the latter may be bottled in a year after harvest: some of them lose their flavour by remaining longer in the cask. Light and fine wines, like those of Volney (Cote d'or), commonly rem.iin only a year in the cask before they are bottled. . 2623. The first class of the more delicate Burgundies should be bottled at the end of a year, are in perfec- tion when bottled two years after the vintage, and do not keep above twelve or fifteen years ; but the more generous and higher coloured, such as Pomard, Vosnes, or Chambertin, should remain in the wood for four or five years and will keep for twenty. , , . - ,v u 3624 Champagne, which requires to be bottled early, is generally m perfection the third year after bottling, .-ind the best wines will be found to improve for ten or fifteen years, .md will be sometimes good even at thirty or forty The Rhine wines should rem.iin in the wood for many years; the best Hock is said not to be in Dcrfccii'on until it is forty years old, and it will keep well four times that time. Claret should be kept seven or eight years in the wood to obtain its full qu.ility, after which it will keep a long time m bottle. The first clarets of Mafon, however, will not last above sixteen or seventeen years. Claret is apt m thecellar to change to a brick colour, the consequence, it is supposed, of its mixed composition. 362"). With respect to those wines imported in bottles, they should not be moved fi-om where they are first placed except for the table. Some leave them in the cases in which they are imported ; the upper side of the cases should be kept in the same position. SiUery is sometimes apt to cfForvesce after carriage ; in that case, the bottles may be placed on their bottoms for some time, and before drinking, the wine should be kept in