SICKNESS IN THE NURSERY. IIAP. II. 1213 her period that tlie well-directed attention of a parent becomes of the greatest value ; ' often with returning health come relaxing precautions; the danger is supposed to I ive passed; and yet at t''is time, as every medical man can certify, there is more real H'l il than during the height of the eruption ; that is to say, more peril than in common luld cases, which are imdistinguished by any malignancy of character, or any inflamma- ii 111 of internal organs. Exposure to cold draughts of air must be carefully shunned ; the kin at this time is usually very susceptible of impressions ; and by no means an unfre- ]iient follower of scarlatina is a kind of dropsy, appearing chiefly in a swelled face, and iilarged hands and legs; this almost always arises from exposure to cold and over-eating, nid, as after mild cases little care is taken, it is more common after slight than after i \ ere attacks. The diet, therefore, must be judiciously regulated ; fermented liquids -hould not be given to children, from a mistaken notion of quickly restoring strength; he food should be nutritious, yet simple ; country air is after a time very useful. "When )iie member of a family has been attacked, immediate separation of the remainder of the uvenile part of it gives them the best chance of escape. A child will communicate nfection to another after the eruption has disappeared, and sometimes even after the hrowing off the skin has ceased. We shall make some remarks on purifying and fumi- gating rooms after small-pox and scarlatina, when we have finished the subject of measles. 7160. Measles. — For several days before the appearance of the peculiar eruption of neasles, there are certain symptoms which often excite a suspicion of the impending lisorder. The child labours under a severe cold; there are watery discharges from the } es and nose; accompanying these are irregular chills and shiverings, with general inguor and appearance of illness. In the course of a day or two there is frequent ueezing, and a cough is generally heard of a hard, metallic, somewhat croupy character; he eyes are red, the tongue furred, and the breathing is often considerably oppressed. U will be easily obsei-ved that these symptoms differ considerably from those attending he early stages of scarlatina and smallr^ox: in the former, there is fever with sore throat; n the latter, there are the peculiar and severe pains in the back, stomach, and head; lilt in neither is there the hoarse cough, the sneezing, and the discharges from eyes and lose which prevail in measles. On the fourth day usually after the commencement of he attack, when the symptoms above detailed are at their height, the rash appears. It s fii-st visible around the head, behind the ears, and about the temples ; it then appears 111 the rest of the face, then on the tliroat and neck; on the rest of the body a few spots ike flea-bites may often at this time be noticed; but the eruption has not reached the lands and feet till two days after its appearance on the face. The colour is less bright han that of the eruption in scarlatina; the rash, also, is not so imiversally diffused, is II ore patchy, and the patches will frequently be observed to have a crescentic or some- -vliat semicircular shape. On the day after its appearance on the hands and feet, the ash on the face begins to fade away; there is itching and scurfiness of the skin: at this line the eyelids are often swollen, but this soon abates, and the watery secretion from hf eyes ceases. The chief danger in measles arises from the occurrence of inflammation of certain parts if the lungs, and this is more frequent at the decline of the eruption; therefore all liroughout, but more especially at this time, any increase in the cough, shortness of ii eath, or symptoms of fever, must be carefully looked out for, and their occurrence I ported without fail to the medical attendant. At the close of measles a diarrhoea is xtremely common. 7161. In the treatment very little can be done by the parent. Many writers advise an ■luetic, as in scarlatina; and if the child complain of sickness, it may be given. The cold fionging the body, so agreeable and efficacious in scarlatina, is not allowable in measles ;\ ithout medical advice. An aperient of castor oil or rhubarb may be given with one or 'vo grains of calomel, according to the age of the child. The apartment must be kept iiol, but free from currents of air, and cooling drinks may be allowed in abundance. 7162. Fumigation of bed-rooms after the foregoiny diseases. —We refer to the article on ■ Fumigation" for the detail of this subject. We may mention that during the course of he fever pure air should be freely admitted; and in bad cases it is often expedient to iprinkle a little solution of chloride of lime, or "bleaching liquid," as it is often called, ipon the floor, and in the utensils. After recovery rooms are fumigated in various ways; ' ime put a certain quantity of nitre in a hot saucer, and pour over it an equal weight of oil )f vitriol (sulphuric acid). A more powerful means is the extrication of chlorine ; this s done by placing in a vessel, heated to a considerable degree, equal weights of common ;alt, and of the black or binoxide of manganese, and pouring over them some sulphuric 1'id; all metallic fui'niture should be removed from the room, else they will be rusted. Nevertheless, often, after every means have been taken, the infection of scarlatina will idhere to a room for several months, even for a year; therefore, if possible, the room should be used by some one who has previously had an attack; as on the whole one attack 'certainly exerts a protective influence against a recurrence.