67 ON HEAT. '|!HAP. I. lormingtwo distinct sets of rays : but heated iron can radiate heat unaccompanied by light: and the rays of heat from a lire are not exactly of the same nature as those of the sun : i»r instance, the latter pass readily through a pane of glass, but the heat from the fire is lilmost entirely stopped by the glass. 298. When the rays of radiant heat strike upon the surface of a solid body, they are either . "fleeted from the surface, or are absorbed by it: in general, both these effects partly happen s. ':'he reflection of heat follows very nearly the same laws as those of light. (See the Chapter on Light.) The rays from the sun proceed in lines parallel to each other; and, as is well known, laay be collected into a focus by a concave mirror, so as to set fire to substances placed in bae focus : but the rays of heat, as well as of light from a candle or lamp, always diverge ; nnd the rays from a fire proceed from it in aU directions. We may observe, that the radiation of heat from the sun, when accompanied by light, aas long been known ; but it is a modern discovery that heat radiates likewise from every (X)t body, even if not luminous, as a piece of heated iron, in invisible rays, that are subject 1) the same laws of reflection as those that are accompanied by light. The reflection of hhis heat is practically well known in some cases to the cook, who places a tin screen to eeflect heat upon meat when roasting; but all bodies reflect, in a radiant manner, heat rbhich strikes upon them : polished surfaces reflect most heat as well as light. 299. Such part of the radiant heat as strikes upon a body and is not reflected, is hbsorbed by it, for no part of the heat is lost. The heat which is absorbed remains in the oody, and raises its temperature: and as it is the remainder after reflection only that is bbsorbed, it follows, of course, that those substances which reflect the most absorb the least; mus pieces of polished metal, as, for example, fire-irons, placed near the fire, will reflect laore heat than equal pieces not polished, but will not themselves become so warm in the same time as if they were not polished, and, of course, can be more easily handled. 300. It has lately been discovered that heated bodies radiate heat very differently, according ' > the nature of their surface. If a surface be polished, it will radiate less when heated, liaough it wiU reflect more heat, than if it be rough : thus a polished tea-pot full of boiling i.'ater will radiate heat, or in other words, part with its heat, more slowly than if it is not oolished ; and, of course, vessels of polished metal are more effectual in keeping things hot ban those of any substance not polished. This principle has been applied practically in laany ways, which may easily suggest themselves. A tea-kettle or a coffee-pot kept bright, fi ill preserve their contents longer hot than if suffered to become duU ; and, on the con- rary, an iron stove, to warm an apartment, should always be dull and not polished, since ; is to give out heat, and not to retain it. It is observed that metals are the worst aadiators. 301. Colour has a considerable influence upon tlie absorbing poiver of bodies, and, of course, ppon the degree to which they are heated by calorific rays. Black colours absorb most l^eat, and white the least. To show this, pieces of cloth of different colours have been siiid on snow, and it was found that when the sun shone, the snow was melted most imder liae black cloth, and least under the white ; the other colours absorbed in the following iwder next to black, blue, green, red, and yeUow. Hence a black hat, or coat, will become narmer in sunshine than a white one. The degi-ee in which these colours reflect heat ri iU, of course, be in the contrary order to that in which they absorb. 302. Transparent bodies are scarcely at all heated by the rays of heat in their passage \mrough them : thus those from a fire do not warm the air of the room immediately. The naanner in wliich heat is communicated to the air from the fire is the following. The rays iff heat proceeding from the fire, strike against some solid objects on the sides of the ppartment; and such part of them as is not reflected, is, as we have stated, absorbed, and »'Cts in warming what they strike upon ; the parts so warmed then communicate a portion iiT their heat to the air immediately in contact with them by the mode of conduction xxplained above. This portion of air becomes expanded, rises, as in the heating of water, nad is succeeded by another portion of air, which also receives heat by conduction ; and hius, as long as the fire continues, it first warms the solid bodies by radiation, and then the inr in contact with them, by conduction. In the same manner the rays of heat thrown ippon water from a burning-glass would have very little effect, if any, upon the water, ncept that it strikes upon the bottom of the vessel and warms it, the bottom communicating h'le heat so received to the water. 303. The sense of tmwh, which affords us the most obvious means of learning the presence If heat, is a very inaccurate measure of its quantity Whatever has a higher temperature liaan our hand at the time will feel warm on toucliing it, because heat will then pass from I. to us ; and, on the contrary, whatever has less heat than our hand will feel cold, i*ecanse, on touching it, heat will leave onr hand. Hence the ap|)arent temperature of inny body is merely relative to that of our bodies at the time, and not dependant upon its I ctual temperature. A good conductor of heat, as a piece of metal, will impart heat more r-feely, and absorb or abstract it more rapidly, than a bad conductor, such as a piece of wood j