523 WATER. ::hap. I. tre cannot introduce their explanation in a better place, as it will throw still further light .••■n what we have been discussing. The vulgar notion of a petrifying water or spring is, that it will convert into stone any substance thi own into it. This is, however, altogether jji erroneous idea; there is probably no such water or spring in this sense of the term. S'fo water in any country, as far as is known, has now the property of converting wood unto stone. Petrified wood is frequently found imbedded in ancient rocks ; but the date iff such petrifactions is entirely unknown, and is probably of incalculable antiquity. »Modern waters said to have a petrifying quality do not convert the substance of wood i;nto stony matter, but only Lncrust the wood with a deposition of carbonate of lime, pre- cisely analogous to the furr of a tea-kettle ; and the piece of wood so incrusted will be l ound within this incrustation perfectly unchanged. Several springs of this kind are well .mown in various parts of England, particularly at Matlock in Derbyshire, where many iiubstances, as birds' nests with eggs, branches and leaves of trees, &c., or, in short, any objects hirown into them, are petrified, as it is improperly called. These springs hold carbonate nf lime in solution, in the manner we have stated above, and when the water issues from tiie ground, and is exposed to the atmosphere, the excess of carbonic acid flies off, without moiling, and the bi-carbonate, thus reduced to the state of common carbonate, is precipitated AS a crust over any substances at the bottom. Such objects are therefore merely incrusted oith carbonate of lime, and are properly incrustations, not petrifactions,—the latter term being f.pplied only to the effect of very ancient and unknown operations, by which every par- uicle of the original body has been removed, and stony matter substituted in its place, ff a piece of really petrified wood, for example, be broken across, no wood will be per- I'.eived in the interior; the whole will be mineral matter. Science is yet unable to explain aatisfactorily this effect, as well as many others in the natural history of the earth; and lihe cause has never been seen in operation. 2921. Soft spring water is nearly the same as rain water ; it is indeed only the latter vhich has passed through the earth without meeting with any soluble substances to alter its [)urity: it is very seldom quite so pure as rain water. Some waters of this kind are so Dure as to possess even a medicinal celebrity. The waters of Malvern and of St. Winifred's HVeU in Flintshire are very pure waters, having no mineral impregnation ; and it is thought hhat their salubrity is owing to the great solvent power which water has when in a very Jure state. The sweetness of water is a term that merely expresses its purity. Although hard water is improper for many domestic purposes, yet there are many jases in which the hardness is no detriment, and there are several in which it is even ad- lantageous. Soft and pure water has, as we have stated, a much gi-eater solvent power lihan hard; therefore in culinary operations, where the object is to soften the texture of ::nimal or vegetable matter, or to extract from it and present in a liquid form some of its .loluble parts, soft water is the most eifective and to be preferred. In brewing, boiling, nr stewing meat, making soup, or any extract whatever, soft water is best. 2922. But if we consider the cooking of vegetables, we shall find that in some instances laard water is better than soft; and this the cook knows practically at least, by throwing .>.alt into the water, which makes it hard. Soft water without salt has too powerful a i lissolving effect upon green vegetables ; it makes them too tender, destroying that firmness essential to the preservation of their juices, which are thus dissolved and extracted, and the 'egetables consequently rendered insipid, at least to English palates. Together with the uuices the green colour is extracted, and the vegetables rendered pale and even yellowish. 2923. In boiling fish, likewise, the contrary to boiling meat, it is not required merely to i-ender the fish soft, but to preserve a certain degree of its firmness. Salt is therefore put mto the water in boiling fish; hence it is evident that in this case, hard water is at least as ri;ood, if not better, than soft. 2924. It may therefore be laid down as a rule in domestic economy, that when the object ss to dissolve substances, to render them soft, or to extract the virtues of any thing, as in 'loups, broths, stews, &c., then soft water is the best; but when the object is to cook the 'bod by preserving the juices as much as possible in the substances, hard water is oreferable. This, it is to be remarked, although correct, is not the prevailing opinion acquired from books on cookery. 292.'). It should be observed that the terms hard and soft, as applied to water, are only elalive: but water which contains as much as five grains in the pint of saline matter is :.;enerally regarded as too hard for washing and many other economical and manufacturing iorocesses. 2926. The iemper(iture of springs is uniformly the same all the year round; hence in I .ummer the water is considerably cooler than any other water : that coming to the surface -8 more easily affected by the change of season. 2927. Some springs are, however, naturally warm, and some are hot, and even boiling hot. When they are warmer than ordinary, they are called thermal springs. When a spring is «varmcr than usual, but still below the temperature of the human body, it is said to be tepid; II good example of which is the waters at Buxton, which arc always at a temperature of