1241 INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. Chap IV. these in the short manner which our space renders necessary : -we feel that much need- less anxiety may be caused, as every one of those early symptoms of consumption, recognisable by a non-medical person, may be present, and yet the individual be free from all taint of disease. Nevertheless, as consumption is so frequent and so fatal a disease in this country, we shall run the risk of occasioning sometimes unnecessary uneasiness in the niiuds of friends and parents, in order that we may in some instances afford assistance in the early detection, and consequent treatment, of this formidable malady. The per- sonal appearance, which has been described as indicative to a certain extent of scrofula is also a sign of consumptive tendency ; the age most liable to consumption is that between fifteen and thirty—perhaps its most frequent time of appearance is at the period of the cessation of growth. 7283. A short account of the nature of consumption will more clearly than any thing else prove to parents what great necessity there is for an early detection of the disease. The complaint consists essentially of the deposition of a new and foreign substance in the material of the lungs. This substance in an earlj- stage is often in the form of little grains of a whitish or pearly colour, and it is very remarkable that these are most usually in greatest number at the summit of the lungs; indeed, just at the part where, in young- women, the custom of society ordains that the dress shall cease. When these whitish grains are few in number and small in size, they produce no symptoms whatever which can be noticed by a bystander, except a little hacking cough, -o'ith trifling expectoration, and which is most noticeable in the morning, or may appear only at that time ; sometimes there are also slight pains in the chest, but not in every case, and occasionally there are feelings of languor and lassitude. Now it is at this time, during the presence of this little hacking cough, when the little grains are few and small, that there is the greatest chance of cure ; and it is precisely this stage which is most commonly overlooked. Sup- posing it to be overlooked, the deposition of these grains continues ; they become united, and form masses and knobs of a greyish, dense substance, which acts as a foreign body on the lungs, and causes inflammation, exudation of fluids, and ulceration ; the grey sub- .stance also becomes yellowish, or a yellowish substance is at once deposited, and this is known by the name of ^tubercle." At this period, there is the continued cough, the breathlessuess, the spitting of blood, and the loss of flesh and strength, which, perhaps, for the first time, attract attention, and medical aid is sought for; but it must be obvious to every one who has read these remarks or any others upon the disease, that medicine can have little power over a disease of such extent; the time has been overlooked during which skilful and prompt attendance would have been of the greatest service ; the phy- sician cannot undo that which inattention and negligence have suffered to proceed so far; he stands by, a spectator of events he cannot check, and has the additional mortification of hearing his art condemned for errors not its own. The symptoms which denote the earliest stage, viz. the slight hacking cough, the slight expectoration, which may be altogether wanting, the flying pains in the chest, and the languor and feeling of illness, are, in many cases, merely accidental, and present in those whose lungs are quite free from disease ; but they may derive significance and im- portance from occurring in persons of a weak frame of body, or who have an hereditary liability to consumption : in all cases, but particularly in these latter, it is advisable to have the chest examined by some competent stethoscopician ; if disease be present, it is in the state most amenable to treatment; if absent, the examination will, at least, have removed painful apprehensions. In some cases, spitting of blood is an early symptom ; medical aid should always be obtained, and no foolish fear of alarming the patient should prevent the relations fi'om a prompt and satisfactory investigation. There are many other symptoms in the early stage, which are less obvious, and consequently less import- ant, recognisable only by the practised eye of the discriminating physician. Treatment neccssar?/ in persons liable to consumption.—The treatment is comprehended under the two following general heads: — 1. To increase bodily vigour to the utmost; 2, To ward off inflammation of air tubes ; and all circumstances which may tend to develop the latent predisposition. The first rule comprehends the usual means which improve health ; such as regular exercise, nutritious and unstimulating diet, attention to the bowels; in summer, the cold or tepid bath, sponging the chest with salt and water, and using friction afterwards ; in persons of pale face and languid habits, steel wine con- tinued for several months is useful; sea-bathing may be combined with it, and in fact the "tonic regimen" must be employed. It is of great importance to allow the lungs full play ; all fancied elegance of person must be sacrificed for health. The use of tight stays should be discontinued ; and the dress should reach quite up to the neck, and in winter be lined with flannel; the upper part of the chest should never be left uncovered. Under the second rule, wc would particularly mention climate; the great use of Madeira, the Cove of Cork, Hastings, Uuderclilf, &c., is that they are not so subject to those sudden inequalities of temperature, which in susceptible persons excite constant little recurrences of slight inflammations of the air-tubes of the lungs: in consumptive