ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. ?84 Book X. But it is only of late that chemistry has taught us the rationale of the process. A certain portion of salt is almost always employed, but much less is necessary that w^en no smoke is used, and the smoke imparts a peculiar flavour, that is much relished by many persons; the juices of the meat are likewise more perfectly preserved than when it is only salted and dried, by which it is apt to become hard if long kept. 4482. The usual method of smoking meat in England is to hang it, after being salted to a certain degree, in those large and wide chimneys which were universally built for- merly in our farm-houses, in which they were exposed to the ascending smoke; latterly, it has been the custom to erect rooms or houses for the express purpose of hanging meat in to be smoked. The smoke from every kind of fuel is not effectual for this purpose; that from coal does not answer; the smoke of wood and of peat only are fit: nor is every kind of wood equally proper; the quality of the wood has an influence upon the flavour of the meat; beech and oak are preferable to fir or larch. Smoke from the twigs of juniper, rosemary, peppermint, &c., impart to the meat something of their aromatic flavour. Westphalia hams are smoked by juniper; slow smoking is preferable to a more rapid one, as this penetrates more completely into the interior of the meat. 4483. With respect to the theory of preserving by smoke, it is now known that in the smoke of wood there is an acid vapour which rises with it, and is the cause of the pre- servation of the meat. Every one must have remarked how much more pungent for the eyes is the smoke of wood and turf than that of coal; this is owing to the acid just men- tioned, which can be procured in a separate state, and as this was at first thought to be one of a peculiar kind, distinct from all other acids, it received the name of pyroligneous acid, of acid of wood. But subsequent observations have shown that it is not a peculiar acid, but the same as the acetic, which forms the sour principle in vinegar — an opinion which is confirmed by the manufacture of actual vinegar in the distillation of wood. The liquid that comes over first in this distillation is of a dark brownish colour, and consists of acetic acid mixed with tar and water, from which good vinegar is afterwards prepared by recti- fication. The crude liquor still goes by the name of the pyroligneous acid; and is now successfully applied to the preservation of animal substances by simply washing them with it; which is, in fact, making use of the active principle in wood smoke; and this substance might, without much impropriety, be familiarly styled the essence of smoke. 4484. It appears that the first application of pyroligneous acid to the preservation of meat was made by Mr. Sockett in 1820, from having refiected upon the antiseptic pro- perty of wood smoke, and having the opportunity of making some experiments with this acid, made in a manufactory near him. By adding some of it to the pickle for making hams, he found that a much smaller quantity of salt was sufiBcient; and he even suc- ceeded by brushing over the ham with the acid without employing the pickle. He like- wise tried it with success on salmon and herrings. It should be observed that after meat or fish have been smoked by the liquid pyrolig- neous acid, it is necessary to expose it a few days to the air to take off a peculiar smell. This opinion respecting the antiseptic property of pyroligneous acid has been com- pletely confirmed by various experiments. Fish simply dipped in it and dried in the shade are perfectly preserved. If haddocks are cleaned, split, and slightly sprinkled with salt for six hours, then drained, and dipped for about three seconds in the acid, and after- wards hung in the shade for eight days, they are found to be equal to the highly esteemea Finnan haddock. Herrings cured in the same way and dried in the shade for two months are equal in quality and flavour to the best red herrings, the fish retaining the shining and fresh appearance which they had when taken out of the sea. A piece of beef was dipped for one minute in pyroligneous acid, in July 1819 ; on March 4. 1820, it was as free from taint as when first immersed; no salt was used. _ . _ 4485. Acetic acid, or pure vinegar, appears to have likewise considerable antiseptic power. Beef and fish dipped in it were found free from taint several months afterwards, but when cooked had an insipid taste. The empyreumatie oil or tar of the pyroligneous acid is useful in giving that peculiar flavour so much relished in smoked meat. Mr. Donovan observes, that the pyroligneous acid is, perhaps, more generally made use of in the curing of fish and flesh as a substitute for wood or turf smoke, than the public are aware of; and that perhaps it acts to the full as well, if not better, for communicating flavour, while it is also an antiseptic. Hams, intended for smoke-drying, are usually cured with a less quantity of salt than when they are not smoked; even one-half the quantity is often sufficient. . . c 4486. Hitherto we have spoken of the pyroligneous acid as possessing the property ot preserving meat from putrefaction; and it is sufiicient for most practical purposes to take this view of it. But we may now state that late discoveries in chemistry have shown that there is a peculiar principle in the acid of wood which produces this effect. A kind of oily substance has been extracted from this acid by Reichenbach, and also from coal tar, to which they have given the name of Kreosote. This oil is transparent, colourless, peculiarly volatile, has a pungent odour, and possesses a very remarkable power of coagu-