724 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. deal of the sugar. This concentration also prevented the full formation of the minute crystals of sugar; and in this manner much of the syrup that would otherwise have formed into sugar was carbonised and changed into molasses. In this state also the molasses was still so much united with the sugar itself, that it could not be completely separated without re-dissolving the whole, and crystallising it afresh, which constituted the process of re- fining. In the new method, the temperature of the sugar in the vacuum pans does not exceed 150° or 155°, and they are heated externally by steam. When the granulation is completed in the pans, the sugar is put into the curing boxes, which have their bottoms formed of metallic gauze. The air is then drawn away from below these boxes by an air- pump, and the pressure of the superincumbent atmosphere forces down all the molasses, and leaves the crystallised sugar nearly pure. Of course, before the syrup is put into the vacuum pans for granulation, it has been clarified and skimmed as usual. Another ad- vantage in this process is the great saving of time. Sugars cured in this manner require only a few hours' drying previous to shipment. So great is the expedition with which sugar has been made by these improvements, that at Plantation Richmond, in Demarara, the " sugar has been growing in the fields in the morning, and converted into sugar beau- tifully white in the evening." The vacuum sugar, as it is called, is admitted at the same duty as ordinary raw sugar, and it bears transportation from the West Indies better than the old sugar. By the new process they get less molasses than formerly, and of course cannot make so much rum; but they say that the molasses is superior in quality : part of it appears to be owing to a combination of the sugar with mucilage in the cane juice, which prevents some of the juice from crystallising. 4135. 77i2s Demerara sugar, made in the above manner, consists of pure, transparent, very small crystals, which are in fact sugar candy, of a rich taste equal to that of refined sugar, less apt to become acescent than Muscovado, and therefore applicable to all the or- dinary purposes of domestic economy. The time required for its solution, being greater than that of other sugar, is in some cases a slight objection. 4136. The East India sugar, which has lately come into the market, is likewise made from the sugar-cane, and is whiter though less strong than the West India Muscovado. It somewhat resembles the Lisbon, and is said to be clayed. Sect. IIL sugar-candy, barley sugar, and syrup, 4137. Sugar candy consists of regular crystals of sugar. In making refined sugar, the crystals are small, confused, and irregular; hence the whiteness and opacity of loaf sugar; but if pure syrup, or dissolved sugar, be allowed to remain quite still and undisturbed, as the water evaporates, the sugar will crystallise in certain regular forms; and if the syrup has been perfectly clarified, these crystals will be colourless and transparent, constituting white sugar-candy. Brown sugar-candy difiers from this only in being formed from syrup that has not been so completely clarified. If a mass of sugar-candy, such as is usually sold in the shops, be examined, the form of the crystals can be easily made out by a little attention, and it will be observed, that all the crystals are constantly of the same form, it being a law of nature that every distinct and separate substance crystallises con- stantly in the same mode. There is at present much less demand for sugar-candy than formerly, when it was very generally used for coffee and tea; but it is still made ia London by a few sugar bakers. The syrup from which candy is made is thinner than that employed for making loaf sugar, in order that the crystallisation may be more per- fect ; and the most perfect quiet is preserved, it being found that a very slight degree of agitation in the liquor will very materially diminish the size and perfection of the crystals. The syrup is poured into oblong boxes, in which a light horizontal frame, strung from end to end with fine packthread, has been previously placed for the crystals to form upon as the water evaporates, when the boxes are placed in the drying stove, where they remain several days. At the end of this time, the finest crystals have formed upon the threads, and the whole inside of the boxes is found to be lined with crystals. 4138. Sugar-candy is transparent and vuich harder than loaf sugar; its hardness causes it to dissolve less readily, except it be pounded very finely. Its inferior solubility in the mouth occasions it to be supposed by some persons not to be so sweet as loaf sugar, but in reality there is no difference, as they are the same substance, differing only in the mode of crystallisation ; and the purer the sugar the sweeter it should be. It is also a very com- mon error to suppose that moist sugar is sweeter than refined; this opinion arises from its great solubility, by which it affects our organs of taste more quickly. 4139. Barlcy-suqar is sugar boiled in barley water to such a consistence that it will solidify when cold. It is flavoured with lemon-peel, and then poured upon a stone slab, rolled out into little cylinders and twisted. 4140. Syrup is sugar simply dissolved in water, and boiled till the water evaporates.