1026 DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. Book XVIII. 607.'). Cotton sewing-thread, usually called sewhuj cotton, has of late been made so beau- tiful by machinery, and its utility and cheapness are so well known, that it has in a mea- sure superseded the use of linen thread formerly used. It is used in every house, and in the making of almost every kind of clothing. G07C. White balt-cottmi is of vurious sizes, distinguislied from each other by numbers, or by letters; there is also coloured ball-cotton. Heel cotton is a superior kind. These are now extensively used for sewing in- stead of the linen thread employed before the cotton was brought to such perfection ; but the latter is not nearly so strong nor so durable for many purjjoses as flax thread. To free cotton thread from its divergent fibres, it is passed rapidly through the Hamc of coal gas, by which it acquires a more smooth and even appear- ance. Mcmlinn cotton, or darning cotton, is chielly used for repairing cotton hose ; it is white, black, and coloured, and is composed of two threads but little twisted. Tnifatgar cotton and Moravian cotton are used for working muslins, nets, cambrics, &c. and are quite sol't. Knitting cotton is for knitting gloves, socks, fringes, &c. ; it is twisted hard, but not so hard as sewing cotton. Marking cotton is in small balls, and is dyed previously to being twisted, so as to render the colour immovable. Lace titrcait is also made of cotton for mending lace or bobbin net. Gymp thread is a soft thread used for embroidering on muslin. Glazed cotton is another variety for tlie same purpose. 6077. ICorsled, or worsted threiiil, is made of wool of various degrees of fineness, and dyed of all colours, chiefly for darning, embroidery, and tapestry. 607H. Silk thread,or sewing silk.— In describing the silk manufacture weexplained the manner of converting the labours of the silk-worm into thread. What is prepared for sewing is, fine white, or China silk ; common sewing silk, black, and dyed of all colours ; tailors' sewing silk ; twist, or mohair, for tailors; floss silk, fur darning hose, &c. 6079. The thread of the Laplanders is of a very different nature from ours ; they know nothing of flax or hemp, nor of .wy other plant whose stalks might supply the pl.ice of these in making thread, but theirs is made of the sinews of the rein-deer. They beat these sinews well, after having steeped them long in w.iter, and then they spin them out. The thread is made of any fineness they please, but cannot be longer than the sinews admit. This thread requires much more labour to make than ours; but it is much stronger, and therefore superior on many occasions. In fact, it is very similar to our own catgut, only finer; and w ith this they sew their clothes, gloves, &c. Miscellaneous Articles. C080. Bindings are fabrics woven of very narrow widths for sewing on the edges of various cloths, and ties for various purposes. They are made of worsted, cotton, hemp, and (lax. Carpet binding is of worsted about two inches and a quarter wide, made very strong: and there is a kind of linen and worsted. Worsted binding is about one inch and a half wide, and is either common London, or double London quality. Shoe binding, narrow, for binding shoes. Venetian binding is a finer kind of worsted of various u idths, proper for Venetian blinds. Cliintz binding is for white dimity and printed furniture. Blue mid white bindings are for mattresses and bed ticks. Mannel bimlings o{ si\]L andcotton. 6081. Ferrets are narrower than bindings ; they are of worsted, cotton, or silk. 6082. Tapes are the narrowest fabrics of this kind, and are either plain or twilled. Holland tape is a white tape of linen, of various widths, described by numbers, as Nos. 13.14. &c. Dutch tape is a finer kind of the same. Dutch diaper, or herring-bone tape, is white, of linen, soft and strong. Pink, red, or lawyers' tape, of linen. Blue, and black tape. There are also cotton tapes of various kinds. 6083. VVc/js are strong fabrics from two to three inches wide for supporting the seats of sofas, and similar uses. They are made of hemp. 6084. Fringes are for furniture or for ladies' dresses. The first are from two inches and a half to four inches deep, and are of three varieties ; plain head, plain head and bullion, gymp head. Those for dresses are called fancy fringes, and are made of worsted or silk from half an inch in width to two or three inches. 6085. Laces are of silk, cotton, or linen ; and are made flat, oval, and round. Slay laces and upholsterers' cord are made of a number of threads from three to twenty, knitted together in a braiding machine. 6086. Combs are well-known instruments for disentangling and adjusting hair. They are made of various forms and materials, according to the uses to which they are applied ; but we shall confine ourselves at present to those which are employed in dress. Combs are manufactured of all prices, from a few pence to any sum, and sometimes they are set with brilliant stones, pearls, and even diamonds ; but those which are most in use are of tortoise-shell and horn, these substances uniting the qualities of strength, elasticity, lightness, and an agreeable colour, suitable to that of the hair. The pieces of tortoise- shell in its natural state are never quite flat; but they are steeped in boiling water for a considerable time to soften them, and they are pressed into the desired forms between iron plates; the teeth are cut with saws ; and they are finished with rasps, files, and polishing powders. Horn combs are made of bullock's horns; after the solid tips are sawn off, the horn is heated over a fire, by which it becomes nearly as soft as leather, and the horns are slit open on one side and pressed flat; they are then plunged into cold water to harden them. The mode of finishing is the same as for tortoise-shell. Lately, combs have appeared made of iron japanned. 6087. The fun is a very ancient apparatus, having been used by the ladies of Egypt and India, as well as those of modem times, for cooling the face by agitating the air : they were originally made of feathers bound together like the tail of a peacock when spread out whence the French name 6venlttil. Tlic present usual form is Chinese, and consists of a semicircular piece of paper double, and inclosing slender slips of wood, ivory, or tortoise-shell, susceptible of folding in or expanding at pleasure. Fans about fifty or sixty years ago were in high fashion here ; at present, they are seldom used. Great elegance is displayed in the carved work of some fans, and particularly the Chinese ivory fan-sticks. Those now used are small. 6088 Braces are a nscful modern invention for suspending the pantaloons or trousers, superseding the necessity of girding the bod-y a.s was the case in former times, and which was an irynrious practice. They arc made of leather, cotton girth, or elastic fabric, by means of India rubber woven in the cloth. The last are the mo»t pleasant wear.