ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 284 Book V. Denmark Street, Soho, London. It has been recommended by Sir Benjamin Brodie, and other eminent surgeons. 1259. An elastic or swinging seat, couch, or bed, for counteracting the uneasy motion of a ship or carriage, and thus preventing sicltness, was invented by Mr. Pratt of Bond Street. To effect this, the frame of the seat or couch is suspended on juribals or joints, turning at right angles to each other ; and an elasticity is produced both in the seat and cushion, and in the swinging frames, by the use of spiral metal springs, which, it appears, were first introduced by Mr. Merlin seventy years ago, but which had been neglected until lately. 1260. A bedstead for invalids was also invented by Mr. Cherry of Coventry. The sacking is attached to a cylinder on each side of the bed, and running lengthways : these cylinders contain springs by which the sacking is kept always stretched when not in use ; but when it receives the weight of the body, the springs give way a little, and the bedding sinks down several inches into a concave form, by which it encompasses the sides of the patient, and relieves the back from sustaining the whole weight. The patient may, also, by the construction of the bed, be placed in any required position ; and the bedstead may be converted into an easy chair. 1261. The invention of cloth impenetrable to fluids has given rise to invalid beds of an excellent kind. So long ago as 1819 Joseph Pierre Gros, member of the Medical Athe- naeum at Montpelier, published a thesis read to the Ecole de Medecine of Paris, in which he states that he had employed water for this purpose, which, he observes, possesses three important characters ; viz. perfect softness arising from the mobility of its particles; capacity for caloric ; and the susceptibility of being contained in an envelope impenetrable by the excrementitious matters of the sick, and being inaccessible to contagious miasma. This thesis is preserved in the library of the Ecole de Medecine of Paris. 1262. Dr. Amotfs hydrostatic bed is particularly useful for invalids, and we cannot do better than give the description of it in his own words :—"In many of the diseases which afflict humanity, more than half of the suffering and danger is not really a part of the disease, but the effect or consequence of the confinement to which the patient is subjected. Thus a fracture of the bone of the arm is as serious an injury as one of the bones of the leg; but the former leaves the patient free to go about and amuse himself, or attend to bxisiness as he wills, and to eat and drink as usual—in fact, hardly renders him an invalid ; whUe the latter imprisons the patient closely upon his bed, and brings upon him, first, the irksomeness of the continued position, and then the pains of the unequal pressure borne by the parts on which the body rests. These, in many cases of confinement, disturb the sleep and the appetite, and excite fever, or such constitutional irritation as much retards the cure of the original disease. That complete inaction should prove hurtful to the animal system may by all be at once conceived. The operation of continued local pressure will be understood from the following statements. The health, and even life, of every part of the animal body depends on the sufficient circulation through it of fresh blood, driven in by the force of the heart. Now when a man is sitting or lying, the parts of his flesh compressed by the weight of the body do not receive the blood so readily as at other times ; and if from any cause the action of his heart has become weak, the interruption will both follow more quickly and be more complete. A peculiar uneasiness soon arises where the circulation is thus obstructed, impelling the person to change of position ; and a healthy person changes this as regularly and with as little reflection as he winks to wipe and moisten his eyeballs. A person weakened by disease, however, while he generally feels the imeasiness sooner, as above explained, and therefore becomes what is called restless, makes the changes with much fatigue ; and, should the sensations after a time become indistinct, as in the delirium of fever, palsy, &c., or should the patient have become too weak to obey the sensation, the compressed parts are kept so long without their natural supply of blood that they lose their vitality, and become what are called sloughs, or mortified parts." Dr. Arnott then describes some cases of that kind, and continues : — " Under these circumstances, the idea of the hydrostatic bed occurred to me. Even with the pressure of an air pillow it was evident that persons in such a condition could not be saved unless they could be supported without sensible inequality of pressure. I theu reflected that the support of water to a floating body is so uniformly diffused that every thousandth part of an inch of the inferior surface has, as it were, its own separate liquid pillow, and that no part bears the load of its neighbour—that a person resting in a bath is nearly thus supported—that a patient might be laid upon the surface of a bath over which a large sheet of tlie waterproof India rubber cloth was previously thrown, the body being rendered sufficiently buoyant by a soft mattress placed beneath it. Thus the patient would repose on the face of the water, like a swan on its plumage, without sensible pressure any where, and almost as if the weight of the body was annihilated. The pressure of the atmosphere on our bodies is fifteen pounds per square inch of its surface, but, because tiniformhj diffused, is not felt. Tlie pressure of a water-bath of depth to cover the body is less than half a pound per inch, and is similarly unpcrceived. A bed