1103 HISTORY OF CARRIAGES. Book XXIII. much employed in whitening various substances. The way of managing it is as follows ; —Provide a large box or cask to hang the clothes in, and on the bottom of the box place a small chafing-dish with some lighted charcoal; upon this strew some brimstone, and cover up the box close, leaving the things to hang for several hours. 6.594. To dean tvhite, broivn, or fawn-coloured fealhers.—Dissolve some fine white soap in boiling soft water, and add a small bit of pearlash. When the water is just cold enough for the hand to bear it, pass the feathers several times through it, squeezing them gently with the hand. Repeat the same process with a weaker solution of soap, and then rinse the feathers in cold water, beating across the left hand for about ten minutes to ex- pel the water ; when they are nearly dry draw each fibre or flue over the edge of a small blunt knife, turning it round in the direction you want the curl to go ; then, if the feather is to be flat, put it between the leaves of a book to press it. 6595. Black feathers may be cleaned with water and some gall; proceeding as with the last. 6596. Wash leather gloves, as their name implies, may be easily washed with soap and water; when nearly dry, the fingers should be stretched with a piece of wood. 6597. White and coloured kid gloves are more difiicult to clean ; but it is said they may be cleaned perfectly by laying them on a clean towel, rubbing them with a piece of flannel dipped in a hot strong lather of white soap till the dirt is removed, using as little water as possible. Hang them up at a distance from the fire to dry gradually and after they are quite dry, pull out the shrivels and stretch them on the hand. BOOK XXIII. CARRIAGES. CHAP. I. mSTOEY OF CAKRIAGES. 6598. No nation, entirely in a savage state, is possessed of any vehicle such as we denominate a carriage; ancf mankind must have advanced somewhat considerably in civilisation before they subjected animals so far as to domesticate them for the purpose of drawing wheel carriages. The Esquimaux have trained dogs to draw their sledges, and the North American Indians use horses for riding, an art introduced by the Spaniards. Uesides these, asses, mules, lamas, camels, dromedaries, elephants, and even the bull and cow, have been used in various countries for draught, though the origin of their substi- tution for human power cannot be traced. Of these, the horse, the ass, and the mule are found the most generally useful; the camel and dromedary are preferred by the Arabian only when he crosses the sandy desert, on account of their being able to subsist long without drink. Among the Indians of Peru, the lama is the common beast of burden; and in other countries, as Iceland, the horse is the sole means of conveyance from place to place, and to carry provisions and merchandise. In crossing steep and rocky mountains, impracticable for carriages or even for horses or mules, such as parts of the Andes of America, travellers are carried in a chair on men's backs; in China, one of the best modes of travelling is in a sedan carried by two men on elastic poles, connected at the ends; and the same method is used in some parts of Brazil. In India, the palanquin is a more luxurious kind of conveyance of the same class. 6599. The awimt litter, fig. 837., was a kmd of vehicle borne by men upon shafts in the manner of the palanquin. It was much used among the Romans ; and Pliny calls it the traveller's chamber, the name lectica having probably been de- rived from lectus, a bed, there being usu- ally a pillow and a quilt within. In the time of Tiberius, these were in common use, as we learn from Seneca. The litter was also sometimes conveyed by horses ; and the horse litter, which was intro-> duced into Rome from Bithynia, was first brought to this country by the Normans; it is still used by the Pope on certain state occasions, and also by travellers in the moun- tain passes in SicUy, Spain, and Portugal. For several reigns succeeding the Norman