ON FOOD. 496 Book VII. The great vine at Hampton Court, planted in 17G9, of the variety called black Ham- burgh, occupies a space of 116 square yards, and has a stem thirteen inches in circumfer- ence: one branch is 114 feet long ; it is a most productive bearer, having seldom fewer than 2000 bunches upon it every season, each weighing a pound on an average, or in all nearly a ton. Its parent, still existing in Valentme House in Essex, planted in 1758 is still larger, and nearly as productive. ' 2729. The varieties of grapes are extremely numerous ; vine-growers enumerate in their catalogues nearly three hundred, of which between fifty and sixty are cultivated in Britam. These are classed according to the form and coloui- of the fruit, and are thus stated by Professor Burnett, in his " Outlines of Botany: " 1. the round black or purple grapes; the grapes from which port wine is made belong to these ; 2. the long black ones', to which belong the Hamburgh grapes ; 3. the round white or green grapes ; 4. the long white and green ones ; to the two last belong those brought from Portugal and Spain, packed in earthen jars ; 5. the grapes of any other colours, such as red, roseate, bluel greyish, or variegated in stripes. ' 2730. Of the round black grapes, the most esteemed are the Damascus, the black Lisbon, the Muscat or purple Constantia, and the black Morocco. The claret grape is remarkable for its juicy pulp, being of a deep purple or blood colour, whilst in the others the dark tint is confined to the skin. The Ascalon or black Corinth, when dried, constitutes the currants of commerce. 2731. Of the long black grapes, the best are Muscadel, the Burgimdy, the purple Ham- burgh, the black raisin, and the black Palestine. 2732. Of the round white grapes, the amber Muscadine, the malmsey Muscadine, the white Muscadine, the Pearl drop, and the white Constantia are all excellent. The white Corinth or Ascalon is often without pips, and when dried is known as Sultana raisins. 2733. Of the long white grapes, the white Sokars, the white Muscat, the Morillon or genuine Tokay, the white raisin, and others might be mentioned. The Verdelho, from ■which Madeira is made, is an excellent grape, but the stones should be rejected, as they are said to be deleterious when eaten. 2734. Of the fancy grapes, the red Muscat, the blue Tokay, the striped Aleppo, and the variegated Chasselas, are all worthy of cultivation. 2735. Switzer informs us that it is to Lord Capel and Sir William Temple we owe that collection of good grapes now so plentiful in England. The latter brought over the ■Chasselas and Frontignan, Amboyna, Burgundy, black Muscat, and grizzly Frontignan, and distributed them among the nurserymen, nobility, and gentry. 2736. Grapes for the dessert should be of a fine flavour, thin-skinned, sweet, and juicy. There is a superior richness in the black, blue, and red Frontignans, and there is a peculiar delicacy in the flesh of the white sweet water, which is also remarkably thin-skinned with large berries. Grapes of the green and black sorts are imported from Portugal, and like- wise from Malaga, and other parts of Spain, packed in large earthen jars having the interstices filled up with chafi', and the lids cemented down. They arrive here in little less than a week by the steam packets. This method of preserving grapes was known to the Romans, and is described by Columella. Grapes are also brought from Hamburgh and Frankenthal and sold at one shilling, and even eight pence per pound: arriving in less than twenty-four hours from Holland, they have aU the plumpness and bloom of fresh gathered fruit. 2737. Used as food, grapes are extremely nutritive in general, and very wholesome if quite ripe. They are better eaten with bread, as is the case in France, where they form a frequent breakfast for the working classes. Of the juice of unripe grapes, a pleasant cooling summer beverage is made ; but the fruit should not be eaten in that state. The chemical composition of grape juice will be stated when treating of the mode of making grape wine. 2738. Raisins are grapes that have been allowed to shrivel and dry partly on the tree; they are then cut off and dried in the sun : hence they are sometimes called sun raisins, to distinguish them from others dried in ovens. They are also called jar raisins, because they come to us in jars. By drying they lose about two-thirds of their weight, and become covered with a saccharine exudation. Some raisins come from Spain, Calabria, Smyrna, &c. The Malaga are the largest and most highly prized for the table, known here generally as Muscatel, and sell for double the price of any other. They are the produce of the provinces of Valentia and Grenada. On the hills round Malaga there are ujjwards of 7000 vineyards. The first gathering of grapes for some raisins com- mences in June ; from those gathered in September Xcrcs Secco, or sherry, is made, the sack of Shakspeare ; and a third, in October and November, produces the wine known on the Continent as Malaga, and in England as mountain. Common raisins are made from various kinds of grapes, better or worse; they have a slight degree of acidity, wliich renders them less agreeable than the best. 273'J. Dried currants, so much used in Christmas pies and puddings, are a kind of little