MILKING AND MANAGEMENT OF MILK. 1159 Chap. II. performed by men, but it is most usually the ■work of -women. The milker ought to be mild, good-tempered, and cleanly. If the operation is performed harshly, it becomes painfiU to the cow, who in this case brings into action her faculty of retaining her milk; but if gently performed, it seems rather to give pleasure, as appears from the cows coming to be milked in some countries at the call of the milkers. Dr. Anderson observes, that many instances have occurred in which cows that would not let down a single drop of milk to one dairy-maid, let it flow in abundance to another. For the same reason when cows are ticklish, they should be treated with the most soothing gentleness, and never with harshness or severity: and when the udder is hard and painful, it should be tenderly fomented with luke-warm water, and stroked gently, by which simple expedient the cow will be brought into good temper, and will yield her milk without restraint. It is of importance that the whole of the milk in the udder should be thoroughly drawn from the cow when she is milked : that portion of milk which is left seems to be gradually absorbed into the system, and nature generates no more than to supply the want of what has been taken away. If this lessened quantity be not again thoroughly drawn off, it occasions a yet farther diminution of the quantity of milk generated: and so on, from less to less, till none at all is produced. In short, this is the practice followed, when it is meant to allow a cow's mUk to dry up entirely, without doing her any hurt. 6871. If the milking be not carefullt/ performed, not only will the quantity be diminished, but the quality will also be inferior ; the first of the milk is the poorest, and gradually becomes richer, until the last drainings of the udder, or what is commonly termed the " afterings." It has been ascertained by Dr. Anderson, that the loss of half a pint of this milk occasions the loss of as much cream as would be afforded by a far greater quantity of the first milking, besides that portion of the cream which gives the greatest richness and flavour to the butter. This he decided by the following experi- ments : " Having taken several large tea-cups, ex.ictly of the same size and shape, one of these was filled at the beginning of the milking, and the others at regular intervals till the last, which was filled with the dregs or ' .ifterings.' These were each weighed, the weight of each cup being settled, so as to ascert.iin that the qii,mtity of milk in e-ich was precisely the same: and from a great number of trials frequently repe.ited, with many different cows, the result was thus: the quantity of cream obtained from the first drawn cup was, in every case, much smaller than from that which was last drawn ; and those afforded less or more as they were nearer the beginning or the end. The quantity of cream obtained from the last drawn cup from some cows exceeded that from the first in the proportion of sixteen to one. In other cases, however, and in particular circumstances, the disproportion was not so great; but in no instance did it fall short of the ratio of cig/it to one. The difference in the quality of the cream, liowever, obtained from these two cups was much greater than the difference in the quantity. In the first cup the cream was a tough thin film, thinner, and perhtips whiter, than paper ; in the last, the cream was of a thick consistence, and of a richness of colour that no other kind of cream was found to possess. The difference in the quality of the milk th,it remained after the cream was separated was, perhaps, still greater. The milk in the first cup was a thin bluish liquid, like as if a very large portion of water had been mixed with ordinary milk; that in the last cup was of a thick consistence and yellow colour, more resembling cream than milk, both in taste and appearance." 6872. The average quantity of milk which is afforded by cows varies according to the breed, pastures, season, and winter keeping. In the principal cheese districts, large cows will give from eight to twelve quarts per day, and some will give nearly twice this quantity for short periods ; but when cows give an unusual quantity at one milking, it is remarked that they either go off their milk much sooner, or else their milk has less richness in it, than that of others which do not give so large a quantity. Smaller breeds do not give nearly so much; perhaps from two, three, six, eight. 6873. It is better to milk them abroad in fine weather than to drive them home from- any considerable distance ; and it is advisable to have some home paddock not far from the house, where they can be put under cover while milking; at which time it is expe- dient to lay before them some favourite food which they can relish with appetite ; for they will thus not only remain more quiet, but they will also yield their milk more readily. 6874. When the milk has been drawn from the cow, it should be carried gently, and with as little shaking as possible, to the dairy, where it is strained through the sieve. It is then put into the coolers or shallow pans, which should not exceed three or four inches in depth, and about a gallon and a half or two gallons in capacity, where it is left for the cream to rise to the surface, which it does within a few hours, according to the temper- ature of the air. Those who are particularly nice, either in the consumption of the raw cream, or in making the very best butter, skim the milk, perhaps within six or eight hours ; but when intended for ordin.ary butter it is generally left at least twelve hours, and in cold weather twenty-four, or even thirty-six hours, according to the weather, and then it is sometimes skimmed a second time. It is requisite that the milk-pans themselves should be as nearly of the temperature of the milk when that is put into them, and therefore in winter they shpuld be scalded with hot water, or placed before a fire previously to their receiving the milk, as the cream will rise if this be suddenly chilled. Milk, which is put into a bucket or other proper vessel, and carried to a considerable distance, so as to be much agitated, and in part cooled before it can be put into the milk- pans to settle for cream, never throws up so much or so rich cream, as if the same milk had been put into the milk-pans directly after it was milked. 6875. In separating the cream from the milk, first run an ivory or silver-bladed knife 3 E 4