BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. GU Book VIIL of Viana and Figuerra, from which England used to he supplied previous to the introduc- tion of the Oporto wines. 3454. The vino tinto, which has been mentioned above, is a thick, sweetish, black-red wine, formerly, and even at present, much used in deepening the colour of the red wines of Portugal, and seldom drunk alone ; it is made from the wild vine, commonly called the claret grape. Some excellent white wines are likewise produced in Portugal, BuceUas, grown a few miles above Lisbon, when pure, is much \ik.^Parsac; but when it comes to us is much brandied. Carcavellos and Setuval are sweet wines from the province of Estramadura, and known in England by the name of Lisbon, because they are shipped at that place ; the first receives its name from the village of Carcavellos, near the rock of Lisbon ; it is richer and dearer than common Lisbon, which is a pleasant tasted wine, formerly much used as a table wine. 3455. WJiite port, now little known, much resembling red port, except in colour, is the produce of the red and white grapes of the Douro, expressed together, and prepared in a similar manner to the red port, except that the marc or skins and foot-stalks of the grapes are not fermented with the must. It is a wholesome, not unpleasant wine, mostly drunk in the country where it is made, or distilled into brandy. SnBSECT. 4. — Spanish Wines. 3456. Spain, from the warmth of its climate and excellent soils, has many advantages for the manufacture of wine. The red wines are in general much inferior to those of France ; but the Spaniards excel in the preparation of dry white wines, particularly of the sweet kinds, which are great favourites in Spain, and were formerly so in England. The vast abundance of wine in that kingdom, and the facility with which it is every where obtained, renders the inhabitants careless about the means of preserving it, and the wines are usually kept and carried about in goat's skins smeared with tar or pitch, which com- municates a taste often so unpleasant that they are scarcely drinkable by strangers. Casks and bottles are very little used, partly through the poverty of the people, and because skins are more easily transported by mules on bad roads. The hole by which the original owner of the skin was taken out is sowed up ; so are the legs, which sei-ve as handles to carry it by, with the exception of one, which is tied by a string, and is used as a spout to draw off the liquor. The universal use of these skins (called bota) in Spain is one of the first things to attract the attention of a stranger, and gave rise to one of the most diverting adventures in the Don Quixote of Cervantes. Cellars are scarcely known, except in monasteries and large towns; but in the houses of the better classes, where the wines are kept in wood, they are often found of excellent quality. 3457. The finest wines are made in Andalusia and Granada, where great care is bestowed on the cultivation of the vine, and it is in the former province that the wine known among us by the name of sherry is produced. The term sherry is a corruption of Xeres, being made at Xeres de la Frontera, a few miles from Cadiz. The wine district is here six square leagues, and about 17,000 pipes are exported annually. Many of the principal vineyards in Xeres are in the hands of British and French settlers, whose agents superintend the manufacture of the wines. The grapes, which are white, are left to hang in the sun till they are partly shrivelled, and are exposed to it for forty-eight hours after they are gathered ; at the same time some quicklime is thrown over them, for the purpose of mollifying the fruit by neutralising the acid, lessening the coarseness of the skin, and rendering the extraction of the juice easier and more abundant. After the grapes have lain a sufficient time they are put into a press, and there some brandy is sprinkled over them. The juice being extracted from the mark, brandy is again added, and the must goes through a regular fermentation; it is afterwards put into casks, and racked, when again another addition of brandy is made. 3458. Wine-merchants distinguish several kinds of skerry, as pale and brown, and there are various degrees of each. Sherry in general is of an amber colour, and when good it has a fine aromatic odour, with something of the agreeable bitterness of the peach kernel. When new it is harsh and fiery, and requires to be mellowed in the wood for four or five years. The wine- merchants of Xeres never exhaust their stock of finest and oldest wine, but keep it for adding a portion to what they dispose of at the highest price. Sherry has of late got much into fashion in England, from the idea that it is more free from acid than other wines : but some careful experiments on wines do not fully confirm this opinion, and it is found that the best ]\Iadeira and port are equally free from acid. Two dry sherries are highly esteemed in Spain, Aminlilhido and Manzanilla, and they are said to be entirely devoid of brandy, and equally free from acid : but they arc seldom brought to this country, though they deserve to be. The Amintillado, when genuine and