FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Rook XVII. 996 at tills work, particularly at Nottingham; but even of this a great deal is now done by machinery that drive a multitude of needles. When the net is to be embroidered by hand, a pattera is first drawn on paper; if the quantity to be embroidered is considerable, the design is cut on a wooden block, and printed on the net; after being embroidered, the net has next to be bleached, and dyed if required. It is afterwards " dressed," or stififened, by being dipped into a mixture of gum, paste, and water, and stretched on a frame by pins till it is dry. Sect. III. DESCRIPTION OF THE VARIOUS KINBS OF LACE. 5870. 77ie most celebrated foreign laces are, according to Mr. Slater,— Brussels, the most valuable. There are two kinds: Brussels ground, having a hexagonal mesh formed by platting and twisting four threads of flax to a perpendicular line of mesh ; Brussels wire, ground made of silk, meshes partly straight and partly arched- The pattern is worked separately and set on by the needle. Mechlin : a hexagonal mesh formed of three flax threads, twisted and platted to a per- pendicular line or pillar. The pattern is worked in the net Valenciennes: an irregular hexagon, formed of two threads, partly twisted and platted at the top of the mesh. The pattern is worked in the net similar to Mechlin lace. Lisle ; a diamond mesh, formed of two threads platted to a pillar. Alengon (called blond): hexagon of two threads, twisted similar to Buckingham lace, considered as Inferior to any other made on the cushion. Alengon point, formed of two threads to a pillar, with octagon and square meshes alter- nately. 5871. The French nets made by machinery are,— Single press point, called when not ornamented tulle, and when ornamented dentelle, made of silk, is an inferior net, but attractive, from the beautiful manner in which it is stiffened. Trico Berlin, so called from being Invented at Berlin and the stitch being removed three needles from its place of looping, is fanciful and ornamented in appearance, but not in demand In England. Fleur de Tulle, made from the warp lace machine; mesh of two descriptions, which gives a shaded appearance to the net. Tulle Anglois is double pressed point lace. Thread lace of foreign niaiiuraeture must he imported in quantities of not less than twelve yards, unless of the value of 21. or upwards per yard, or solely lor jjrivate use ; if lace so imported shall be joined or pieced, it is liable to forfeiture. Foreign lace can only be imported into the port of London. No gold or silver lace can be imported, under the penalty of 100/. Licences must be obtained annually for the sale of foreign and British lace. 5872. English laces are,— A silk net in imitation of blond. A yard, three inches wide, machine-made, is now sold for Z^d., which formerly cost several shillings. Quilling silk net, slightly stiifened with gum. Pillow or cushion or thread lace. This is worked on the pillow or cushion, as above de- scribed ; and being made of linen thread is the most durable. No lace will bear repeated wash- ing without Injury, except the thread lace ; it is therefore still preferred by many persons. Piece bobbin net is machine-made lace, of various widths, from 3-8 to 8-4. It re- sembles in its texture the plainer kinds of pillow-made lace. The threads are entwined together, so as to form perfectly regular six-sided meshes. The woodcut, fg. 789., exhibits, on a magnified scale, the disposition of the threads, which results from the crossing and intertwisting of three, one of which pro- ceeds from above, downwards, in a winding direction, as the warp; the two others in a zigzag direction, crossing each other. The beauty of bobbin net lace depends not only on the quality of the thread, but principally upon the perfectly hexagonal shape of the meshes. This elegant texture i)0ssesses all the beauty and regularity of the old Buckingham pillow lace. It is some- times wrought with a thick thread among the meshes, in various patterns represeutlng sprigs, flowers, scrolls, wreaths, &c. Fig.yso. Since the discovery of a new mode of finishing this lace, it has been made to resemble the most delicate specimens of Mechlin. It is used for veils, borders, edgings, trimmings, &c., and is sold at prices which appear excessively low when compared with its delicate finoicss and seemingly elaborate workmanship. Tallinns and pearls are narrow edging made to sew on to the piece net; the former from a quarter of an inch down to a sixteenth, and the latter from a sixteenth to the narrowest width possible.