FURNITURE OF THE ENTRANCE HALL. 261 'IHAP. XI. s]ipable of doing the work of fifteen expert embroiderers, costs about 200/. The machine iippies the pattern by a pentagraph. 1178. Filagree is an ornamental work composed of threads of gold, silver, paper, or other a'lbstance, wrought together in a curious and ingenious manner. Our term comes from aae Italian fiUgrana, threads and beads, because the latter were originally mixed with it. "the art is of great antiquity, having been brought from Egypt and the East: and was jrrmerly much employed in church furniture, as for decorating vases, images of saints, wc. Beautiful articles of this kind are manufactured in the Deccan, and among the Turks cad Armenians. Mr. Marsden informs us that the Malays excel in this art. The best laagree is executed witli threads of gold or silver, and gilt or coloured paper is also used, liaking filagree was, at one time, a fashionable employment; but is now nearly obsolete. CHAP. XL FURNITURE OF THE ENTRAJMCE HAI.L. 11179. Hall chairs, fig. 381,382,383., are made in a particular style, and are always either iholly of mahogany, or wainscot: they have more or less of turned or carved ornaments, Fig- 381 Fig. 382." Fig. 383. Fig. 384, 385. are hull di have sometimes heraldic thields or the crests of the owners. 11180. Hat and cloak pins, and umbrella ir.nds. It is usual to have proper places r • hanging up hats, cloaks, great coats di umbrellas : these should be not far mm the entrance, easily accessible, yet ?e. When there is little room they are werally hung on pins fixed in a wooden 11 against the wall ; but where there is loce enough stands for the purpose are liter, as garments dry sooner on these. fFig. 386 a., represents pins made of ood turned and let perpendicularly into mahogany rail fixed to the wall at a »pper height. Cloak pins,y?^. 386 />, and are likewise made of brass and of cast no, and are screwed on to the rail, their fcction pointing upwards, the better to tiure what is hung on them; another iiid ha.s the lower part of it turned upwards to hang the hat on. Cloak and umbrella r;ads are sometimes made of mahogany, consisting of a stem and cross bars, as in fiq. .-.; the lowest rail has large knobs for the umbrellas to stand between, draining into box, which has a loose japanned tin tray within. The cloaks are hung upon the ee upper rails. Fig. 388. is a cloak and umbrella stand made of cast iron. Fi(/. 389 is lumbrella stand made of tin painted; and fig. 390. is one that may be constructed of 181. Dnnr .scrapers for the feet are placed at the entrance of every house, and should an such a situation as to be easily seen. ^Thc variety of form is endless, from a simple