Book IV. 166 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. is damp, or badly made, or in too small a quantity. To keep a tinder-box in order, the flint should be renewed when it is too much worn, for which purpose a stock should be at hand, or by dexterously breaking one of the sides with a hammer, a new sharpe edge may be procured. For keeping bad tinder there is no excuse. The cause of the appear- ance of sparks of fire when flint and steel are struck against one another, deserves to be explained. The sparks do not come from the flint as is frequently supposed : but they are little chips of steel which are cut off by the sharp edge of the flint, the heat produced by the sharp blow or friction of the flint and steel together, being so great as to set fire to and melt in a red hot state the little bits of steel struck off : for steel is reaUy an inflam- mable substance, although a piece of it cannot be burned in an ordinary fire: but to show distinctly the inflammability of steel, it is only necessary to throw a pinch of steel filings into the fire or across the clear flame of a lamp, and it will be seen that they bum with a vivid light. To prove that the sparks are only little red hot and fused bits of steel, strike them over a sheet of white paper, and having collected them when cold, examine them by a good magnifying glass, and it will be seen that every one of these consists of a little rounded ball of black scoriaceous iron or steel, that has been bm-ned, and rendered brittle, and is analogous to those which fly off in smiths' shops when hammering iron. Tinder is linen rag reduced to charcoal, which is more inflammable than the rag itself. The heat of this, however, in so small a quantity, is not sufiicient to set fire to wood : and therefore the ends of the matches are covered with sulphur, which kindles with the small degree of heat excited by blowing the tinder. When once the sulphur or brimstone is perfectly kindled, it sets the wood on fire. It may be observed that the temperature of the blue flame of the sulphur is inferior to the bright flame of the wood in the match, since the former will fail in kindling many substances that the latter will set on fire : as, for instance, the wick of a candle. In cases where no tinder can be procured, other light inflammable substances may be used ; as extremely dry leaves : cabinet-makers sometimes employ very fine deal shavings. 736. German tinder or amadou, which is so easUy ignited by a spark from the flint and steel, is made of a species of fungus called Boletus ignarius, that grows upon the barks of trees. It is beaten well to make it soft and pliable, and then boiled in a solution of saltpetre to render it more liable to catch fire. The Germans use it much for lighting their tobacco- pipes : and sometimes keep it burning all night for this purpose, a practice extremely dangerous. Loosely twisted cotton dipped in a solution of nitre has been fomid to prove a substitute for the amadou, and to kindle equally well. 737. Tlie match syringe is a mode of lighting tinder by condensed air. A small piece of tinder is put into the end of a metal tube, and the bottom screwed on: into the other end a piston that fits tight is inserted: when this is forced suddenly to the bottom where the tinder is lodged, the latter is ignited, and, by unscrewing the bottom, may be taken out ready to kindle a match. This curious effect is owing to the disengagement of the latent heat contained in the air, condensed or compressed by the syringe. 738. A burning-glass affords another method of obtaining a light when the sun is sufficiently powerful. This is a convex lens of glass, which, by conveying all the rays of the sun that fall upon it into a small space at its focal distance, occasions a degree of heat in proportion to the size of the lens. A glass of an inch and a half in diameter, or even less, is sufficient to set fire to any light inflammable substances, of which amadou or German tinder is the best. Very large lenses are capable of exciting a degree of heat superior to that of a furnace : the most powerful glass of this kind was thus made some years ago by Mr. Parker of Fleet Street. 739. The air lamp was an apparatus for procuring an instantaneous light by acting on inflammable air by electricity : the inflammable gas was contained in the lower part of the vessel, and was forced out through a pipe, when it was wanted, by the pressure of water in the upper part. An electrophonis was at the same time made to give a spark, which fired the gas and produced a flame. It was, however, found difficult to keep in order, and there was some danger of explosions : it is not now used. See Rccs' Cyclop., art. Air. 740. Garden's platinum light. A very curious discovery was made in 1824, by Professor Dobreiner, of Jena, who found that platinum, prepared in a spongy form, possessed the singular property of causing a jot of hydrogen gas thrown upon it to inflame in consequence of its union with the oxygen of the atmosphere ; and the heat thus excited is thus suffi- cient to render the platina red-hot, at which a match may be lighted. Upon this principle an apparatus for procuring an instantaneous light has been constructed by Mr. Garden, 272. Oxford Street, London, as follows, a and b, fig. 147. are two glass vessels, the neck of the upper one being fitted air-tight into the lower by grinding. A hollow cylinder, c, is fixed upon the neck of the vessel a, and reaches more than half way down into b: round this tube a piece of zinc is wrapped. A quantity of diluted sulphuric acid is poured into the vessel h, which, acting upon the zinc, produces the hydrogen, which rises to the top of the vessel, but, not being able to escape, it collecU