FISH. 425 Chap. VI, the rays of their skin are jagged and torn, part of their scales are torn off, and tlieir gills are sometimes infested with parasitical fresh-water worms, which stick to them, and which they get rid of in the sea. At this time they are not wholesome, and are supposed to be productive of disease. This circumstance, however, is not sufficient to prevent those who have an opportunity from catching and eating the fish in that state : and the legislature has found it necessary to fix the periods at which salmon fishing is lawful. When they first arrive at the rivers from the sea, an insect, called the salt-water louse, is found adhei'ing to their sides, and is a proof that the fish is in season. Although this subject has excited so much interest, and been so carefully studied, yet so difficult is it to acquire an accurate knowledge of fish, that the habits of the salmon are still involved in some obscurity. It has been said that every salmon, when wishing to return to fresh water after having been in the sea, goes up the same river in which he was spawned, and that each river has its own fish; but this is improbable: perhaps each fish may prefer his own river, but that he can find it always is unlikely. The salmon is a voracious feeder, and its food consists of small fishes and marine insects. It increases rapidly in size while in the sea, where it finds the greatest abundance of food. It is thought that the breed of salmon is decreasing in Britain, from the amazing number that are killed in ascending to spawn, and from the want of protection of the fisheries. 2214. The chief salmon fisheries in Europe are along the coasts of England, Scotland, Ireland, and the Baltic. The fish is generally taken by nets, and also in the rivers, by a kind of locks called weirs. Near Whitehaven they are also speared. As they are caught in rivers and estuaries, the salmon fisheries are chiefly private property. The consump- tion of this fish in the metropolis is immense, and the London market is supplied princi- pally from the rivers of the northern part of the island. Formerly salmon was caught in the Thames in abundance, and this was reckoned the finest; but since the water has been deteriorated by numerous sewers and gas works, this fish no longer frequents the river. The salmon of the Severn and Wye is excellent, and is first in season of any in England. Formerly such part of the salmon of the North as could not be consumed at home was pickled and kitted after being boiled, and was in this state sent up to London, under the name of Newcastle salmon. Within the memory of many now living, salted salmon formed a material article of household economy in all the farm-houses in the vale of the Tweed ; insomuch that in-door servants used to stipulate that they should not be obliged to take more than two weekly meals of salmon. Its ordinary price was then 2s. a stone of 19 lbs. At present an immense quantity is taken in the Tweed, and is sent to London by the Berwick smacks. The fishing in the Tweed begins on November 30th, but there are few taken till after Christmas ; and it ends at Michaelmas. Salmon, like all fish that swim near the surface of the water, cannot be eaten too fresh; its fine flavour diminishes rapidly after capture. 2215. About the year 1788 the method was first resorted to, now so much practised, of packing salmon in ice to preserve it, which enables the proprietors of the fisheries at a dis- tance to send it to London in a fresh state ; and salmon preserved in this manner is now despatched in fast sailing vessels from the Spey, the Tay, the Tweed, the Dee, and other rivers of Scotland. This has amazingly altered the price of the fish, and increased the value of the fisheries. Ice-houses are now built at the several rivers, to keep the fish in until the time for sending it arrives. A great deal of fish is often spoilt by this mode, and the flavour is materially injured by freezing. There are also salmon fisheries in some of the English and Irish rivers, but inferior to those of Scotland. The price of salmon in the season in London is frequently as low as 9d., and even 6rf., per lb. 2216. Salmon is cured or preserved in various ways, — salted or pickled, and dried. For the method of pickling salmon, see Book X. " Preeervation of Food." 2217. As food, salmon, when in high perfection, is one of the most nutritive and delicious of our fish; but as it is very oily it is rather heating, and with some persons not very digestible ; with most constitutions it requires the addition of condiments, as Cayenne pepper and vinegar. It is thought by some that the addition of shrimp, lobster, and other rich sauces, with which it is usually eaten, increases its indigestibility; but there does not appear to be any distinct knowledge on this subject, so much depending upon peculiarity of constitution. It requires to be very well boiled, otherwise it is un- wholesome ; and when in the best condition and season, it has a fine curdy matter between the flakes, which is a proof of its perfection, and the flavour is then very much superior : but this is seldom seen, except near to the places where it is caught, as it melts-away in keeping. 2218. When the salmon runs from six to ten pounds they are very good fish, and make handsome dishes sent to table whole : but by a late act of parliament no salmon is per- mitted to be sold by the fishmonger of less than 6 lbs. weight, to prevent the destruction of the breed. mo. nyjlnd the foUowing account of the perjccl mode qf cooking llic fish in Sir Humplirv Daw's " S-,1 roonia. We must now prepare liim for the pot. Give him a stunning blow on the head to deprive him