Chap. IV. LAMPS. [159] into the stand of an ordinary lamp by means of the glass foot, vi. air to impinge upon the flame in the manner just mentioned was a happy thought that has given rise to other improvements, of which tlie Solar hinip, and the oxydators men- tioned in p. loS. are examples ; and the glasses have been still farther improved by being contracted in the manner shown at e,Jig. 137., which, indeed, answer all the purpose of the ■ oxydators, except not being so durable. 710 b. Young's patent Vesta lamp, usually known by the name of the Camphine lamp, has advanced nearer to perfection in several respects than any that has yet appeared; : and it was only while this article was passing through the press that our attention was ' directed to this, the latest improvement in lamps. To render the nature of this lamp . quite evident, it is necessary that we enter previously into a few details. All constructions of the Argand lamp, where the oil is made to rise simply by the capillary attraction of 1 the wick, are found to be imperfect, requiring that the oil shall be replenished very frequently, which ren- I dered it necessary to have the oil in a reservoir on one side, that it might be on a level with the fiame ; but I the inconvenience of this reservoir, in causing a shadow, has been already mentioned in our description of I tlu-it lamp, and gave rise to the French annular lamp, and others of that class. The Solar lamp, having the I oil altogether Ijeiow the flame, is liable to the objection that it will not burn long clear without being 1 replenished with oil. In all oil lamps there is an accumulation of carbonaceous matter upon the wick, less I or more according to the purity of the oil and comjileteness of the fcomhustion. These circumstances, ; together with the high price of oil, and particularly of sperm oil, the only one lit for the ordinary Arg.ind I lamp, have led to several attempts to burn other liquids, as naphtha and tui-pentine. The disagreeable odour . of the former rendered it inadmissible into apartments, and neither it nor turpentine could be employed in ! the Argand lamp of the usual construction, since their great inflammability rendered them unsafe, when the 1 liquid was at all heated by any metallic part of the lamp coming into contact with it in the reservoir. To ; avoid this danger, Mr. Young inclosed his liquid in a glass reservoir, and prevented its being in the least I heated, by permitting the cotton wick only to pass into it; and the liquid being thinner than oil, easily rose i in the wick by mere capillary attraction. After trying several combustible liquids, he found that rectified E turpentine was the best adapted for burning in his lamp, which is now frequently known to the public by the [ name of the Catnpltine lamp, from the name given to this liquid by Mr. English, who had taken out a patent I for its preparation. 710 e. Young employs a cylindric wick of cotton, but this has a slit at about an inch and a half from the top, represented at 'E,Jig. 139*., as upon the mandrel ready to put into the lamp. The lower part of this wick hangs down into the camphine. Instead of this wick being cylindrical, it may consist of two, three, or more flat slips of cotton arr.inged in a circu- lar form, and held together at the top, where they burn, by a ring of metal. A, fig. 139*., represents the upper part of this lamp, displaying its in- ternal structure, a is the cylindrical wick put over a brass tube by mpans of a mandrel, and c f is another brass tube of larger diameter, leaving a space between it and the wick. In the side of e/ there is an open- ing, 17, through which the air is admitted to ascend between the two tubes to supply the outside of the flame of the wick when it is lighted; and by the same means the air is admitted through the slit in the wick in the inside of the flame. The dotted lines show this wick hanging down into the camphine in the glass reservoir, h. The flame at a is made to strike on a metal button, ?', by which it diverges outwards like the petals of a flower, which is shown more at large at C, where the dotted line represents the glass with its contraction. The brass cap, k, carrying what has been described, screws on to another brass cap, /, fixed to the glass reservoir, h; and to prevent all communication of heat to the camphine, a piece of wood is interposed between the two caps, as being a bad conductor. The whole of this apparatus may be fitted