484 ON FOOD. Book VII. Sect. XVII. EDIBLE MARINE VEGETABLES. 2645. Marine vegetables grow on such rocks as are always covered by the sea at flood tide, or in deep water. Some of those plants which are left dry at low water in this country are employed occasionally as food, but chiefly as a sort of luxury. 2646. Sir John Sinclair has observed that " it is surprising, considering our insular situation, that so little attention has hitherto been paid to a great variety of plants with which our coasts abound." Hitherto, only three articles have been used as food, namely. laver, dulse, and the sweet tangle: but in China we are told (see Barrow's " Travels in China, p. 552.) that most of the plants that grow on the sea shore are found to possess an invo- gorating quality, and are, therefore, in constant use as pickles and preserves, or simply dried and cut, and mixed with soups, in the place of other vegetables. Th6 leaves of one of them (the Fucus scorutus. Linn.), after being gathered, are steeped in fresh water, and hung up to dry. A small quantity of this weed, boiled in water, gives to it the con- sistence of a jelly; and when mixed with a little sugar, the juice of an orange, or other fruit, and set by to cool, there is no jelly more agreeable or refreshing. 2647. Several fuci are edible. Fucus ciliatus (^a, fg. 5\2.), Fucus pinnatifidus (b), are known on some parts of the coast by the name of dulse, and are eaten raw, and likewise boiled. The former has an agreeable odour somewhat resembling violets. The latter is of a deep brownish red colour, and is more tender and crisp than the other. Fucuspalmatus is likewise eaten, but it is tough. Fucus digitatus contains a nutritive jelly more or less saccharine. Fucus esculentus is known in Scotland by the name of badder- loclis (c); the midrib is stripped of its membrane and is eaten. Fucus nutans, or gulph weed, is also eaten under the name of laver. Fucus saccharinus contains a saccharine substance. 2648. Several of the genus Ulva are likewise edible. Ulva umbilicatus, called shield laver, requires baking for several hours to make it tender. Ulva latissima, or Iceland sea-grass; Ulva latuca also. The lavers contain much viscid matter, and are very nutritious ; they are stewed in the West of England, and sent up to London in pots. 2649. Fucus crispus. This marine plant has of late appeared in the shops under the name of pearl moss; and besides its nutri- tive properties, has been stated to be a useful article of medicine in cases of debility or consumption. It is found on the sea- shore in the south and west of Ireland, where it is named from the place where it is collected, Carragheen moss. It is not however properly a moss, but one of the fuci: the following directions are given for preparing it. Steep it in cold water for a few minutes, then withdraw it (shaking the water out of each sprig) and boil an ounce of the moss in a quart of new milk, until it attains the consistence of a warm jelly ; scum and strain this, and sweeten it to the taste with white sugar or honey, or with candied Eringo root. Should milk disagree with the stomach, the decoction may be made with water alone. The decoction with milk is the most nutritive for breakfast, but that with water will be found an agreeable kind of nourish- ment taken in the course of the day. It has a peculiar taste, which may be covered by lemon juice or peel, or that of Seville oranges, cinnamon, bitter almonds, white wine, or any substance most congenial to the palate. It retains its gelatinous form for some weeks, whereas that of Iceland moss becomes thin in three days. It may be used to make a kind of blanc mange, and is much cheaper than isinglass. We mention the medical properties of this substance, on the authority of some eminent physicians, although there is diiference of opinion on this subject. It is at least harmless, and when boiled in milk it can scarcely fail to be a good, and perhaps a strengthening food, probably well calculated for certain constitutions. From an analysis in Silliman's Journal, it appears to be analogous to the Iceland moss, containing much starch and pectic acid or jelly, some sulphur, chlorine, bromine, and oxalic acid.