Book XXL 1070 JEWELLERY. substances of nearly a similar form, but -which have strife parallel to the length of the sides. It is sometimes found of a light brown, called smoky quartz, as in the cairn- <lorum stones used for seals, so called from being found on a hill of that name in Scot- land. Small rolled pieces of rock crystal arc frequently found in the sand of various places, as at Bagshot in the vicinity of London, -which, from their scratching glass, as all rock crystal does, and taking a fine polish, are called Bagshot diamonds. Rock crystal, -when colourless, is worked into many forms for different purposes, though seldom used in je-wellery, except -when it is coloured, or set in foil. Large pieces are cut for the gla.sses of spectacles, called pebble spectacles, -which are much less easily scratched than any glass. 6406. The stone called cat's eye is a variety of rock crystal inclosing amianthus. It comes chietly from Ceylon ; its colour is light grey, and it presents a peculiar luminous appearance resembling the eye of the animal from -whence it receives its name. A very- rare variety of it is of a dark green. It is usually cut hemispherically. Sect. XV. AMETHYST. 6407. There is the same confusion respecting stones of this name, as with others -we have mentioned. The amethyst of modern mineralogists is merely a violet-coloured quartz or rock crystal; but -what has been called oriental ajnethyst among jewellers is a violet-coloured sapphire, -which is a stone of great beauty and value. The colour of the common amethyst is purple, of various shades and degrees of intensity ; those -which ai-e of the deepest purple are the most precious, but the depth of the tint varies much, being in some scarcely perceptible, -when the stone is of scarcely any more value than rock crystal. Amethysts are found in many countries; but of late many have been brought from Brazil, and some of considerable size. They are much used in bracelets, seals, and similar ornaments. Sect. XVL avantumne. 6408. The avanturine is a beautiful and curious stone, appearing like a translucent crystal, having gold dust interspersed through it; but these sparkling grains consist of mica, and the stone itself consists of quartz. It is employed for snuff-boxes and other larger ornaments. Fine specimens are rare. A n artificial avanturine is made extremely beautiful; it is glass inclosing minute crystals of metallic copper. The sun-stone is a beautiful variety of avanturine, having a bright flame-like colour. It is used in jewellery, and is rare. Sect. XVIL OPAL. 6409. This stone is a very pure kind of flint, and difiiers from chalcedony chiefly in its lustre and colour; but the difference cannot easily be expressed in words. There is the precious opal, and the common opal ; the former exhibits a remarkable play of prismatic or iridescent colours, blue, red, and yellow, green, &c. These colours are sometimes, in fine specimens, intensely bright and beautiful; sometimes the stones exhibit only one colour. It is always cut hemispherically, and it is often full of flaws, which only adds to its beauty from increasing the vivacity of the colours. When fine, the precious opal is of great value ; it is brittle, and softer than rock crystal. Common opal has not any iri- descent play of colour, and is seldom employed in jewellery. The red opal is called girasole. Sect. XVIIL . chalcedony, AGATE, ONYX, AND CARNELIAN. 6410. These stones are placed together, because they are all varieties of the same thing. Chalcedony is a sort of very "pure flint, but instead of being perfectly clear and transparent, it is tinged more or less with a milky hue. AVhen chalcedony has in it various curved parallel bands or stripes of a white or other colour, it is called agate. Fortification agates are those which have zig-zag parallel bands, generally of white and grey, having a distant resemblance to the plans of a modern fortification. They are frequently found in Scotland, particularly in Aberdeenshire, and hence are often called Scotch pebbles. They are also plentiful on the banks of the Rhine. In the centre of these agates there arc sometimes rock crystals and amethysts. Sometimes, instead of these bands, there are minute metallic crystallisations resembling mosses, and which have been, though erroneously,supposed to be really vegetables; these are termed moss agates.