878 HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. Book XII. SuBSECT. 3. — Allowance of Time for CooJting Processes. TABLE I. AUotoance qf Time for boiling Butcher's Meats, Poul- try, and Dried Meats. „ , Lbs. Hours. Beef. The round . . .25 4J Edge bone . . .12 3 Brisket . . .10 4 to 5 (A hard part requiring long and slow boiling.) Mutton. hamb. Pork. Poultry. Lbs. 9 6 5 8 4 Hours. 3 2 2 P Leg . Neck. , Leg . Leg . Hand. Pig's feet and ears . Turliey—According to size, from an hour to two hours. Fowls.—From half an hour to three quar- ters of an hour. Chiclcens.—Twenty minutes. The time of reckoning begins from the time the water begins to boil. Boiling dried Meats. Lbs. Ham . . . .16 Bacon . . .2 Pig's face Beef tongue . Hours. 4 1 2 2to4 TABLE H. Allowance qf Timejor roasting Meats and Poultry. Beef. Sirloin Ribs . Veal. Fillet Loin . Breast Neck . Shoulder Mutton. Saddle Leg . Shoulder Lamb. Hind quarter Fore quarter Leg . Loin . Pork. Leg . Loin . Sparerib Little pig Poultry. Turkey Fowls Chickens Ducks Ducklings Lbs. . 16 . 14 . 12 . 10 . 8 . 8 . 10 . 12 . 10 . 7 . 10 . 9 . 4 . 3 . 8 . 7 . 6 Hours. 4 3i 2 3 1* 3 P 3 2^ 14 Ij to 2 i 15 mm. 20 rain. lOiuiin. Sdbsect. 4. — Preparing Fish for Cooking. Fish in London is prepared for tlie cook by the fishmonger from -whom it is purchased ; but in the country, all that is necessary to be done in trimming and cleaning it devolves on the cook, or on her subordinate assistants. Fish requires to be well washed; but it should not be long soaked in vrater, or the flavour will be impaired. 4924. Salmon, herrings, and other scaled fish, must be scraped carefully with a blunt knife, until every scale is loosened and can be washed away. The smooth-skinned fish must be more carefully handled. They require washing only; but whether scaly or smooth, fish is considered as disfigured if, either in cleaning or in cooking, the skin be broken. The inside of fish requires to be well cleansed, to effect which a small slit must be made with a knife on the under side, through which the entrails may be drawn. Within these, in cod and salmon, will be found the roe and liver, which must be separated from them, washed and laid on a clean dish ready to be cooked with the fish. The roe of all fish is considered as a delicacy, and as a proof of the fish being in season ; it is there- fore always dressed with the fish. 4925. Eels, and other fresh-water fish, pihe, carp, and tench, are slimy when first caught, and require the utmost care to cleanse them well, or there will be in them a muddy taste and smell, which is strong enough even to overpower the flavour of the ingredients with which some of these fish are usually cooked. Washing them, or perhaps scalding them in salt and water, is better still for removing the slime adhering to them ; but if scalded, the fish must be perfectly dried again before it is cooked. SuBSECT. 5. — Preparing Poultry, Game, and Wild Fowl for Cooking. 4926. Hie feathers of poultry should be plucked as soon as possible after it is killed. When it becomes cold a stiff'ness takes place, which renders it difiicult to draw out the quills without tearing the skin, which, after cooking, is considered as a disfigurement. The down which remains after the feathers are removed is afterwards singed off with lighted paper. From some birds it is requisite to draw out the sinews of the leg, which is effected by binding the joint close to the claw, and fastening the claw in a vice. The bird is then pulled strongly until the sinews give way. The crop is next to be emptied ; a slit cut in the back of the neck opens into the crop, iind allows the con- tents to pass through it. The vent is then opened that the entrails may be cleaned out; in doing this, the gall-bag must be carefully removed; if broken, its contents will impart a bitterness to the flavour of the liver which washing will scarcely remove. When the bird is drawn, the liver and gizz.ard are separated from the rest of the entrails, and put into cold water to be cleansed. The necks of fowls, geese, and ducks, are alw.iys cut off close to the body. Before this is done, the skin which hangs loosely upon the neck is pushed up .ibove the part at which it is to be cut off, lh,it it mny be afterwards drawn down and wrapped over the end of the nei k to bide it from view, liefore it is fastened <lown, cold watiT sbouM bo poured through the body of the fowl, a pnirlice not observed by the poulterers wlien tliey truss fowls, but to which it is very proper to attend. The backbone and Ihe two bones which lead to the pinions are afterwards broken. All this done, the bird is then to be /i w.Mcrf. 4927. Trussing for roasting fowh is done by cutting off the first joint only of the legs, and by turning them down close to the sides towards the vent, and fastening fhcin by a game skewer pa.ssed from one to the other. Another slight skewer is passed through the