CHAr^III. RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOKERY. 927 n,.m «.ith thf rice Then whin to a complete froth the whites, and, jiist before it is to be baked, add them, n,nd w^ D ^I togeth •■•"•B" enough, and then into a very brisk oven. aUo«inMwenty minuses for bilking it. The top surface alone should be browned ; the rest should be as white and as light as possible. r. ^ r. 5387 Salamandcred cgg.i. — Vf hen you desire to have eggs served together, first butter the inside of the dish, and place the eggs regularly in it, sprinkling over them some salt and pepper. Cover the eggs -with pieces of butter. Place the dish over a moderate heat, and use a salamander a{ the top till the whites become solid. 5388 Eqqs in the Italian method. —Warm some flour and butter in the stevr-pan till they are sufficiently incorporated. Moisten with some boiling milk and season with pepper and salt ; next put in about three ounces of fresh butter and a couple of tea- spoonfuls of chopped parsley ; work these well together. Have ready eight eggs boiled hard; slice them, and put them into the sauce. Serve them up hot, sprinkled with some additional salt and lemon-juice. 5381 CEurs a la neiee. — Boil a quart of new milk with a large spoonful of orange flower water, and a Quarter of a pon"" of sugar, without stirring. Beat the white of eight eggs to a coniplete froth men the milk boils w ith a very llrge silver spoon take as much of the froth as it will hold, and put it at the top of the hoilin» milk, and let it remain till a little hardened, pouring gently over it with the spoon some of the milk which it imbibes. When cooked sufficiently it should boil. Take it gently off the milk m large spoon, fuls and put it in your dishes ; it will be enough for two, and after h,aving cooked the white of the froth in this way which takes nearly half an hour, make a custard of the milk which remains and the yolks, taking care to drain all the milk from the glass dishes. Pour the custard all over the froths while it is hot. SuESECT. 2. — Vegetable Entremets. 5390. Potato a la maitre d'hotel. — Boil in salt and water some unpeeled potatoes. When done, let them cool, and cut them into the shape and size of large corks. Warm them up in sauce a la maitre d'hotel. (" See Sauces.") When there is no sauce at hand, supply its place with melted butter, with some finely-chopped parsley, pepper, salt, juice of lemon, and a little glaze. Mix it well before putting the potatoes into it; boil it up carefully, lest the potatoes should break ; serve them. 5391. Casserole of potatoes. — Boil potatoes well. Mix butter, cream, and salt together, with which make the potatoes of a thick mash. Serve it, leaving in its centre a space for a ragout, macaroni, or fricassee. Before the ragout is added the casserole must be baked of a fine brown. 5392. Turnips with sauce blanche.—Turnips are admitted as entremets in the winter only, during the scarcity of other vegetables. Cut them into shapes of pears or balls ; boil them in salt and water and butter ; drain them, and serve with sauce blanche. ,5393. Turnips glazed Cut some turnips into sh,ipes, and stew them in broth with a little sugar. When done, reduce tlie broth to a glaze and glaze each turnip. With a spoonful of Espagnole dissolve the glaze remaining in the stew-pan, and work into the same a small bit of butter, the size of a walnut. Season the same, and pour it over tiie turnips. 5394. Carrots a d'Orleans. — Take a few young carrots and cut them in slices about the eighth of an inch thick. Blanch and drain them. Put them into a stew-pan with a lump of sugar and some broth. Let them boil over a large fire. Reduce the broth to glaze, and add butter and salt. When served, the butter must adhere to the carrots. 5395. Spinach au consommC'. — Take care that in the spinach neither stalks nor weeds are left ; it must be washed several times in plenty of cold water. Some people put it into a saucepan without more water than that which the leaves retain after washing; others prefer its being boiled in salt and water — a few boils will be sufficient; then put it, without loss of time, into a cullender to drain, and afterwards into cold water, to preserve the colour ; when quite cold, press the water well out of it ; spread it on a wooden trencher with the knife, to see if any weed or stalk remains in it; chop it very fine, put some butter into a stew-pan, and lay the spinach over it. Dry it over a gentle fire, adding by degrees a spoonful of flour ; moisten it with consomme, and then stew it briskly that it may not turn yellow ; make it rich with a small piece of glaze. Some people add nutmeg; a little may be grated in, and it may be dished with either fricandeaux of veal or mutton. Kto be served as an entree under ham or tongue, mix with it some sauce Espagnole. 539G. Spinach with cream. —Blanch and prepare as above, using cream instead of consomme. Boil the cre.am before pouring it over the spiii.ich, lest it should curdle ; add butter, s.alt, and a little sugar and nutmeg. Serve it with fried toasts of bread, or flourets of puff-paste freslily made. .5397. Caulijluwer d la sauce blanche—Tear off the green leaves and open the cauliflower; remove all snails and insects which may be lodged near the centre ; leave the cauliflower in cold water for an hour ; next put it into boiling water with salt and butter. It is soon done, and will break to pieces if too long boiled; drain it .and dish it, pouring sauce blanche over it. 5398. Asparaiiits aujus—Clean, cut, scrape, and throw into w.ater some asparagcs ; tie them up in bundles ; cut them into equal lengths, and put them into bulling salt and water ; boil for a quarter of an hour; drain them anil ili ess them across one another, or in bundles. Serve them in a dish containing sauce half Espag- nole. and half butter, warmed together. 539!(. Les petiles puintes d'asperge. — Have small asparagus cleaned and cut Into pieces the size of small peas ; blanch them in boiling water with salt; when tender drain and put them into coldw.ater ; dry them in a clean towel, and put them into a stew-pan with a small bit of butter, some parsley, .and green onions ; let these simmer quickly, adding a lump of sugar, a little salt, and two or thre(^ spoonfuls of sauce fournee ; let this boil to keep the asparagus green ; thicken with two or more eggs, according to Ihc^ (jnanlity, two eggs to a pint of asparagus peas, and so in proportion. This dish, when well prepared, has precisely the flavour ot peas. 5400. Windsor beans Take a quartern of small Windsor beans; boil them in weak