274 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. rooms : they may be made of deal or other cheap wood, and have mattresses covered with cliintz, or even brown holland. Fig. 421. —122S. Bed-steps, fig. 424., are necessary to ascend some beds that are made very high, and within are frequently placed a night con- venience. 1229. Toilet or dressing tables are fitted up in an infinite variety of ways, from the plain table with the toilet cover and mirror placed upon it, to the most expensive kinds, and a proper selection adds much to comfort. 1230. Fig. 425. represents one of the most usual plain kind made at present. As this table is commonly "placed against the window for the advantage of good light, if the mirror is placed upon it loose, it is very apt to be blown down and perhaps broken when the window is left open. The best way, therefore, is to have the mirror and frame to slide up and down by means of balance weights, as in a window sash. An additional shelf may be made to draw out to the right to gain room if required : at the bottom is a cushion to put the feet upon. Toilet tables are sometimes made extremely elegant and costly, with various contrivances for holding the numerous paraphernalia required by ladies ; but we omit examples of these, since they must necessarily vary so much with the wants of individuals, that no patterns can be established. ^^^^^^^^ 1231. Tables in the style of Louis XIV., fig. 426., are sometimes introduced into bed- rooms and dressing-rooms as an agreeable variety. They are often of great elegancr. having marble tops, and being decorated with brass ornaments, or inlaying with mar- quetry. Figs. 427. and 428., are two tables in the Elizabethan style. Fig. .127. 1232. The dressing-glasses, or mirrors, in common use, are those termed sitting glasses, from their being moveable to any angle in a frame. Fig. 429. is a large cheval gla.is that stands on the floor, for viewing the whole person, with lights on each side. Fig. 430. is a small dressing-glass for the toilet-table with a drawer. Fig. 431. is another with the drawer omitted, which is now usually done : this must be loaded at the bottom to prevent being easily thrown down.