1108 Book XXIIL CARRIAGES. fig. 842., is the splinter bar, fixed upon the futehels, to the roller bolts of which the traces are attached, to draw the carriage by. If the reader will now refer to fig. 846., he will see a perspective view of the fore part of the upper and under carriage, in which the names of the different timbers are written on them to render the subject clearer. Fig. 847. represents a view of the framing of the fore part of the carriage by itself. In figs. 846. and 847. the place of the perch bolt is marked by a small circle, x, in the middle of the upper side of the fore transom and of the fore axle bed, it being this pin that connects the under with the upper carriage, as above stated, and by which one turns on the other. It remains now to explain the circles seen in fi^s. 842, 843, 844, 845, 846. To keep the upper and under carriages more steady in turning them, if there was only the perch bolt to depend upon, and to give a greater bearing to the upper one, a circle of iron, or rather an annular plate, called the ivhcel plate, is fixed on the under side of the fore transom, and, of course, between it and the fore axle bed; and, to bring its bearing to the futehels, short pieces of wood, being portions of circles, are placed under it sAy and z, fig. 847., of which y, fig. 847., is called the sway bar, and z the felloe piece. The edge only of the wheel plate can be seen as a thick black line in figs. 846. and 847., because the upper side of the plate is protected by a circle of wood. It may be observed that this wheel plate, being attached only to the fore transom, which is a part of the upper car- riage, remains always fixed, the under carriage turning against it. c and d,figs. 846. and 847., are the axle-tree arms on which the wheels revolve. Having thus explained so minutely the various pieces of the fore part of the upper and under carriages on figs. 846. and 847., it will be unnecessary to go over the ground again by a reference to tlie wheel plate in figs. 842, 843, 844, 845. In fig. 845. the springs are represented, jo and x, from which the carriage is suspended, as in the complete representation of a coach, fig. 854. The construction we have just described may be seen in almost every private and hackney coach ; and the reader who wishes to have a perfectly clear idea of the subject will do well to follow our description by an actual examination of one of these carriages : but it must be stated, that to render the wood-cuts simpler and more easy to be understood, we have purposely omitted all the ornaments with which the various timbers are usually decorated. 6614. Springs of carriages. — Having now explained the construction of the carriage part of a coach and other four-wheeled vehicles of the first class, the next subject that demands our attention is the manner in which the body, or place for the passengers, is connected with it. The most ancient wheel carriages were without springs or any other c