CARRIAGES. 1104 Book XXIII. Conquest, these were the only carriages employed in England for travelling by opulent persons; and this vehicle was used as a conveyance even long after tlie introduction of coaches, being the easiest, and giving least fatigue of any then known. The mother of Charles I.'s queen entered London in a litter after having travelled from Warwick in a coach. 6600. Previous to the invention of wheels, the sledyc was no doubt long in use. The facility with which a log of wood can be dragged would suggest the idea; and in north- ern countries the sledge is constantly employed in the present day when the ground is covered with frozen snow. In Madeira, the heavy pipes of wine are drawn on sledges from the mountain vineyards to the coast, and a person accompanies them to wet the bare rocks with a mop to diminish the friction. A similar instance is the sledge loaded with barrels employed by the London brewers, and drawn by a single horse. In Wales, sledges are used to draw hay and corn ; but in all sledges on dry ground the friction is considerable. 6601. Wheel carriages are of great antiquity, being mentioned in the history of Joseph when among the Egyptians ; and drawings from ancient representations of Egyptian chariots have lately been published. Indeed, the discovery of the wheel could not be long after the practice of moving logs or trunks of trees by means of the lever. Heavy stones were likewise moved in ancient times upon rollers. The first wheels were probably solid cylin- ders {fig. 838.), which would aftei-wards be lightened by connecting together by a beam or axle two slices cut off a tree ; and two poles joined by cross pieces laid upon this axle would form the simplest carriage. The next im- provement would be rounding the axle {fig. 839. a), and making the solid wheels revolve upon them, and a frame of wood-work with a handle to draw it by was probably the first wheel carriage. Nearly such a vehicle may still be seen in the hands of the modern mason. The antique car used in war by the Egyptians and Greeks was equally simple ; the wheels were small, but perforated to give them lightness {b, fig. 839.), the warrior standing in the carriage. A box or basket placed upon the axle makes the rude cart; and the construction of the ■ i wheels in the present mode, of naves, spokes, and felloes, is another advance towards perfec- tion, which not only admits of their being of larger size, but causes them to be more dui-able, by a metal band all round the circum- ference. But two-wheeled carriages would be found inconvenient for moving heavy loads, because part of the load must be supported by the power employed for the draught, whether men or animals. This would give rise to the use of four wheels, by which the whole weight would be on the carriage, and the power of draught only required ; with this view, at first, no doubt, all the wheels were of equal size, like those on our railroads, and such was, probably, long the construction of four-wheeled carriages. 6602. Though Bcchmann, in his History of Liventions, has taken considerable pains to prove that covered carriages for travelling and pleasure, under different forms and deno- minations, were used among the principal nations of antiquity, yet the earliest mention of them in modern Europe is towards the end of the thirteenth century. During the feudal times, it was the fashion for the lord to appear on his courser, and the fine dames sat gracefully upon their palfreys; but when Charles of Anjou entered Normandy, his queen appeared in a caretta highly ornamented with velvet and gold. The French charette M-as the same kind of ornamented and covered cart; it is mentioned by Chaucer as having been introduced into England, and probably it had no springs. Various contrivances of this kind appear to have been employed either for invalids or as a luxury, althougli the accounts of them are extremely imperfect. Hungary is the reputed birth-place of the proper coacli, and according to some received its appellation from Kof.icc, an Hungarian village, where it was first invented. In 1294, Philip the Fair forbad the use of these vehicles to citizen's wives; and in the reign of Edward III. of England, although they were not uncommon, it was long considered as effeminate to ride in a coach. Various kinds of vehicles no longer known were, however, used formerly in this country by the middle classes ; and at tournaments they were objects of great display. 6603. About the bcqinninq of the si.vlecnth century, coaches became extremely numerous among the nobility on' the Continent, and frequently consisted of a carriage having pillars supporting a canopy with curtains, to which ultimately glass succeeded. Stowe informs