BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 722 pedition. The clarifiers are capable of holding from 300 to 400 gallons, on plantations which make from fifteen to twenty hogsheads a week. Each clarifier is furnished with a syphon or a cock, to draw off the liquor clear and free from the scum which is thrown up during the boiling. When this clarifier is charged, in order to assist in the separation of the gura, oil, and other vegetable principles which are intermixed in the expressed juice, and for the purpose of neutralising some acid contained in it, a quantity of quicklime (generally brought from Bristol) is stirred in, after having been mixed with a little cane juice to the consistence of cream. In this first part of the clarifying process, the liquor is not suffered to boil; but as it gi-ows hot, a crust or thick scum begins to rise, and when it has reached within a few degrees of the boiling point, the damper of the fire-flue is closed, and the' liquor remains undisturbed for about an hour, in order that all the impurities may have time to rise to the top. The liquor is now drawn off clear by a syphon or cock into the next pan, called the evaporating copper; in this it is made to boil, and the scum is removed by skimmers as it rises. The liquor ought now to be bright, and of the colour of Madeira wme. If it is not sufficiently bright, it is diluted with lime-water, which, by rendering the impurities insoluble, throws them up in the form of scum. From the great evapo- rating copper, the liquor, now considerably reduced in quantity, is transferred by ladling to a smaller copper; and when further evaporated in this, it passes into the smallest, called the teache': here the boiling is continued till the liquor is sufficiently condensed for granulation. From the teache it is laded into the coolers, which are shallow wooden vessels, about eleven inches deep, and capable of holding a hogshead of sugar. Here the liquor cools, and the sugar crystallises, or concretes in small irregular crystals, or grains, which are kept from uniting together by the liquid, now in a viscid state, called molasses, the granulation being assisted by stirring the mass with wooden stirrers. 4124. Wlien all the sugar appears to have grained, it is taken to the curing-house, which is an airy building, containing a large cistern below, and open joists without boarding above. Empty hogsheads without headings are ranged on these joists, and the bottom of each hogshead is pierced by holes, through each of which a plantain leaf is thrust, long enough to stand above the top of each hogshead, and to reach a few inches below the bottom. The sugar from the cooler being put into one of these casks, the molasses gradually drain from the granular part, percolating through the spongy plantain-stalks, and dropping into the cistern below. In about three weeks the sugar is sufficiently cleared and dry, when it is packed into hogsheads ready for exportation. The sugar thus obtained is called Muscovado, and is the raw material whence the sugar-bakers in Britain make their loaf or refined lump sugar. 4125. Part of the Muscovado sugar, on arriving in England, is purchased by the grocers and constitutes the brown or moist sugar of the shops, and they select it according to its cleanness, its bright colour and dryness. The planters in our colonies have generally sent their sugar to Britain in the state of Muscovado ; but in the French, Spanish, and Portuguese settlements it has been usual to convert it into what is called clayed sugar, which was formerly much used in Britain for domestic purposes under the name of Lisbon sugar, and is often mentioned in receipts. 4126. To prepare Lisbon sugar, a quantity of sugar from the coolers was put into conical pots with their points downwards, and having a small hole at the bottom ; the molasses which drained from the sugar dropped out through the hole into a jar intended to receive it. In about twelve hours, a quantity of clay was laid upon the top, and kept moistened with water, which, oozing gently from the clay through the sugar, dilutes the molasses, and causes more of it to come away than in the hogshead, leaving it whiter than at first. This Lisbon or clayed sugar is afterwards dried, and is purer than Muscovado ; it is used in many places for the same purposes as loaf sugar is with us. 4127. Refined sugar is made from Muscovado sugar in the following manner. The raw sugar is put into vessels charged with lime-water and the serum of bullocks' blood, or white of eggs, well mixed. After standing a night to dissolve, fires are lighted under the bot- tom of the boiler, and as soon as the liquid begins to boil, the albmnen or serum of the blood coagulates and rises to the top, carrying with it all the impurities of the sugar, and these are removed by a skimmer. The other part of the blood, the clot, does no injury, as it is not soluble in the liquor, and therefore comes away entirely in the scimi, none of it remaining, as some erroneously imagine, in the sugar which we use. The liquid is kept gently simmering for some time, being skimmed all the while ; the heat is then increased, and the sugar made to boil rapidly until it is concentrated sufficiently : it is then trans- ferred to the coolers, where it is violently agitated with wooden oars till it is granulated. In this granular state it is poured into conical earthen moulds or pots, ha-sang a small hole at their pointed ends. When sufficiently cold, tliese moulds containing the sugar loafs are set with their broad ends uppermost over earthen pots; the hole at the small end is opened, and the treacle or coloured syrup runs out at the points of the moulds, in con- sequence of which the sugar is much whitened. After this, a paste of pipe-clay is poured upon the bottoms of the loaves to the thickness of an inch, and the water that percolates through the sugar washes down all remains of the treacle that adheres to the minute