411 FISH. CUAP. VI. The proper season for angling is from the spring to the autumn. 'I'lie different lisli frequent different places, and re(|uire various kinds of bait or artificial flies, the study of which, with the numerous circumstances connected with it, will be found in works written "on angling." 2137. A method of increasing the qmintili/ of trout in rivers or lakes to almost any extent is mentioned by Sir H. Davy in his " Salmouia," and which he states has been practised by M. Jacobi, a German gentleman. '•His plan of r.iising trout from the egg was a very simple one. He had a box made with a small wire grating at one end in the cover, for admitting water from a fresh source or stream, and at the other end of the box there were a number of holes to permit the exit of the w.iter ; the bottom of the box was filled with pebbles and gravel of different sizes, which were kept in water that was always in motion. In November, or the beginning of December, when the trout were in full maturity for spawning, and collected in the rivers for this purpose upon beds of gravel, he caught males .ind females in a net, .ind by the pressure of his hands received the ova in a basin of water, and suffered the melt to p.nss into the b.asin ; in a few minutes he intro- duced them upon the gravel in the box, which was placed under a source of fresh, cool, and pure w.iter. In a few weeks the eggs burst, and the box was tilled with an immense number of young trout, which had a small bag att.-iched to the lower part of their body, containing a part of the yolk of the egg, which was still their nourishment. In this state they were easily carried from (place to place in confined portions of fresh w.ater for some days, requiring apparently no food : but after about a week, the nourishment in their bag being exhausted, they began to seek their food in the water, and rapidly increased in size. It is said that the experiment succeeds also with the melts of mature fish that had been just killed, if they .ire mixed together in cold water immediately after they were taken out of the body. One great advantage of this method is, that by this nie,ans the young ones are preserved from the attacks of fishes, and other voracious animals and insects, at the time when they are perfectly helpless, and most easily destroyed. The same plan would, no doubt, ansv/cr equally well with grayling, or other varieties of the sixlmo genus. But in all experiments of this kind the great principle is to h,ave a constant current of fresh and aerated water running over the eggs. The uniform supply of air to the fcetus in the egg is essential for its life and growth, and such eggs as are not supplied with water saturated ivith air are unproductive. The experimenter must be guided exactly by the instmct of the parent fishes, who t.ake care to deposit the impregnated eggs that are to produce their offspring only in sources continually abounding in fresh and aerated w,tter. It appears that the leaves of plants that grow in water afford a continual supply of oxygen to the water, and that many fish possess the instinct to deposit their eggs upon these leaves, a circunistance that affords an easy opportunity of making observations upon the growth of young fish, as the leaves with the ora may be kept in a vessel of water. The same obser- vations will apply to fishes of the sea." 2138. TTie art o f carrying and keeping fish, as we are informed by Sir H. Davy, is better understood on the Continent than in England. " In Austria every inn has a box contain- ing grayling, trout, carp, or char, into which water from a spring runs, and no one thinks of carrying or sending dead fish for a dinner. A fish barrel full of cool water, which is replenished at every fresh source among these mountains, is carried on the shoulders of the fisherman: and the fish when confined in wells are fed with bullocks' liver cut into fine pieces, so that they are often in better season in the tank or stew than when they are taken." Sir Humphry has " seen trout, grayling, and char even, feed voraciously, and take their food almost from the hand. These methods of carrying and preserving fish have been adopted from the monastic establishments. At Admont in Styria, attached to the magnificent monastery of that name, are abundant ponds and reservoirs for every species of fresh-water fish; and the char, grayling, and trout, are preserved in different waters, covered, enclosed, and under lock and key." Some remnants of the same practice may be seen in the colleges of Cambridge. Since England became a Protestant country, the cultivation of fresh-water fish has been neglected ; but the formation of fish ponds in hilly or mountainous districts would be a matter of little ditficulty, and by this means a considerable addition might be made to the food of these places. 2139. In China. Ihe art of preserving and fattening flsh is carried to a high degree of perfection. An .account of the method used in th.at country, quoted in the Quart. Journ. of Science, is deserving of notice. In the district round Canton numerous fish tanks are dug in the ground. When the pond is finished, and filled with Wiiter, the owner goes to m.arket, and buys .as m.any young store-fish as his pond cm conveniently hold: this he can easily do, .as almost all their fish are brought to market alive. Placed in the pond, they are regularly fed mornmg and evening, or as often as the feeder finds necessary: their food is chiefly boiled rice, to which is added the blood of any anim.als they may kill, wash from their stew-pots .and dishes, &c.; indeed, .any anim.al offal or veget.able m.atter which the fish will eat. Fish so fed and treated advance in size rapidly, though not to any great weight: as the kind (a species of perch) which came under our observation never arrive at much more than a pound avoirdupois: but from the length of three or four itches, when first put in, they grow to from eight to nine in a few months, and are then market.able. Drafts from the pond are then occasionally made: the largest are first taken off, and conveyed in large shallow tubs of water to market: if sold, well; if not, they are brought back, and replaced in the pond until they can be disposed of. The business of fish-feeding is so managed, th-at the stock are all fattened off aboui the time th.at the water is most wanted for the garden crops. The pond is then cleaned out, .and the mud carefully s,aved, or sprifa<l out as manure, again filled with water, stocked with young fry, and fed as before. This mode of employing the ground was considered in that country ,as more profitable than any other. 2110. The Chinese likewise propagate fish by collecting the spawn in the rivers and lakes where it is deposited, .and conveying it in vessels of water to their fish ponds; this w.ater with spawn is reguharly sold by mcrch.ants who make a trade of transporting it from one province to another. It is even said that these ingenious people h:ive a method of h.atching the spawn of fi.sh. They fill the shell of a new Laid egg with the gelatinous matter that contains the spawn, wax up the hole through which it was introduced, .and put the egg under a sitting hen. At the expir.ation of a certain number of d.iys they break the shell in w.ater warmed by the sun. T he fry are then found h.atched, and are kept in pure fresh water till they are largo enough to be thrown into the pond with the old fish. Lately, .an account has been published of successful experiments of the s.ame kind having been made by Sir I'rancis M;u'kenzie of Coram-house, Scotland, and others who have reared salmon and trout from sp.iwn taken from the fish, and deposited in Ix'ds of gravel l.aiil in ponds: ;m<l it is stated by Professor Agassiz that the ova offish, when prnpfirly imjircKn.ati-d, may be conveyetl in water of a proper temperature, even ncr086 the Atlantic, as safely as if it were naturally deposited by the parent lisb.