Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES, CO will boil or become steam with a less degree of heat. This fact is neglected in speaking on the subject in ordinary cases; but there are other cases when the difference is very striking. For instance, if we ascend a mountain, or even a very high hill, where the barometer would fall sensibly, we should find that water would boil although the ther- mometer indicated the temperature to be several degrees below 212°; and there, conse- quently, it would be impossible in an open vessel to heat water up to that point, since, before it reached it, it would he converted into steam; even an elevation of a few hundred feet will make a difference of a degree. In every case, however, when water is converted into steam by heat, it is proper to say that it boils, although the temperature may be less than 212°. So accurate is this law, that the heights of mountains are now measured, by ascertaining with the thermometer, the degree at which water boils on their tops. 292. A vert/ important application has been made of this curious fact. As it is possible to exhaust the air over the surface of a liquid in a closed vessel, we can take away the pressure of the atmosphere entirely from it, and thus boil it in vacuo; and by this contri- vance water can be made to boil even at 72°, which is the heat of the human body. 293. On the contrary, if we give additional pressure to the surface of the water, the steam is less easily produced, and the water requires a much greater degree of heat to make it boil, which might be done by forcing in more air upon the surface of the water; but this is not necessary, for the steam itself, if confined where formed, presses, by its elas- ticity, upon the surface of the water in the same manner as condensed air would do. All that is required, therefore, is to fix down the lid of the vessel in which the water boils, and the steam, which begins to form, not being able to escape, will have the same effect as atmospheric pressure; and the temperature of the water may then be raised even to 500° or to 600°, in which case its solvent powers will be proportionally increased. This is the principle of the vessels called digesters, employed in cookery.—See " Kitchen Furniture." But as steam, when confined, has a prodigious elastic power, care must be taken such vessels are sufficiently strong to resist its power, otherwise they would burst, as if by gunpowder, an accident with which, unfortunately, we are too well acquainted in steam navigation. To guard against this, safety valves are necessary ; that is, valves which open outwards, and suffer the steam to escape through them as soon as its strength becomes too great for the safety of the boiler. 294. Steam is a particular state of water; it is aqueous gas, having always the heat of 212°, and is itself quite transparent and invisible, like the common air, whilst it is kept at that heat; but no sooner is it cooled in the slightest degi-ee, than it is condensed into a visible vapour. This may be seen in a common tea-kettle when it is boiling; the steam from the spout is not visible till it is nearly an inch fi-om the orifice : it issues quite transparent, but soon becomes a little condensed and visible by the cold of the atmosphere. Though the steam that rises from the surface of the boiling of water in an open vessel is visible, being in the state of vapour just mentioned, yet this soon disappears, having been dissolved by the air in which it mingles ; but if the vessel be closed, and have a pipe connected with it as, for instance, with the spout of a tea-kettle, the lid of which fits very close, the steam maybe conducted in a transparent state, and of the temperature of 212°, to a consi- derable distance, and may be applied to many purposes. 295. But steam requires to be kept up to this heat of 212° ; for if it meet with any colder substance, it will be robbed of part of its heat, and it then immediately returns to the state of water, which is called the condensation of the steam. This may be easily perceived by holding any cold substance in the steam that issues from a tea-kettle, when it will be condensed in drops of water upon the surface. 296. Steam is, itself, while in that state, perfectly dry, and it is only when it is condensed that it exhibits moisture, when, in fact, it is returning to the state of water, which, we have observed, it always does when let loose into the atmosphere, or brought into contact with a surface colder than itself. The process of distillation gives a good example of the condensation of steam. The water, by being boiled in the still, rises as steam into the still head, from which it passes in that state into the worm; it is there condensed, and runs out in the state of a liquid. ,•, i 7 j • 297. We have stated that caloric or heat is thrown off from thesurface of a solid hot bo(iy,in straiqiu lines: and as it proceeds in every direction like radii from the centre to the cir- cumference of a circle, it is said to radiate from the body. That heat is really emitted in this manner, and not conveyed by a current of air or any other means is obvious from the following considerations. If a heated ball be suspended, in the air, heat, which emanates from it, will be felt by the hand at some distance from the ball and nearly as much below as above the ball: but a current of heated air can only ascend, and therefore could not convey the heat downwards ; neither can the heat be prouagated by the conducting power of the air; for this fluid is almost a perfect non- conductor of heat. It is radiant heat that we receive from the sun. and it is likewise radiant heat wliich we feel in approaching a common fire, which sends off rays, as we have stated. The rays of the sun's heat are always accompanied by those of light, these