Book XXII. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 1078 and filtering the solution, -which is thus evaporated: by this, crystals of carbonate of soda are obtained, from three to five ounces being procured from 1 lb. of barilla. It must be observed that though the carbonate of soda procured in this manner is sufficiently pure for many purposes in the arts, as in bleaching and -washing, making soap, glass, &c., it is not so for the purposes of medicine, as it always contains more or less of the sulphate and chloride of potassium and sodium, from -which it cannot be easQy separated. The purest carbonate, used for pharmaceutical purposes, is made from sulphate of soda procured from a different source. 6441. Large quantities of carbonate of soda are now made hy decomposing common sea salt, -which consists of chlorine and sodium, and is called chemically chloride of sodium (for- , merly, muriate of soda). By applying sulphuric acid to this salt, the sodium is changed into soda, quits the chlorine to join the sulphuric acid, and thus sulphate of soda is ob- tained. This, by other processes, is decomposed, and the soda liberated and procured in a free state; -which is a modem discovery, in consequence of which soda is not a third of the price it was at formerly. 6442. The alkalies potash and soda, when in a state of perfect purity, and not combined -with any other substance, are of a highly caustic nature, that is, they powerfully corrode animal and vegetable substances; hence, although they would readily unite with oil or grease, so as to make it soluble in water, yet they would entirely destroy the texture of cloth, linen, or any similar substance, and therefore could not be used as detergents in that state. 6443. But when these alkalies are united with carbonic acid, and are thus converted into carbonates, they are rendered much less caustic, and although they will still render grease soluble in water yet they become so mild that they will no longer act powerfully upon the texture of cloth, and may then, in moderate quantity, be used with safety as detergents. Hence it is that in this state alone they are employed in washing, bleaching, scouring, &c. 6444. Carbonate of soda is far preferable to carbonate of potash for these purposes, because it is much less acrid, and is not so apt to injure the texture of linen goods as potash. It is accordingly much more extensively employed, particularly since means have been discovered of preparing it so cheap as to supersede pearlash almost entirely. CHAP. m. ON SOAP. 6445. The most usual arid the most convenient mode of employing the alkali for tJie purposes of washing is when made into soap, the action of which has been already explained. TIte various kinds of soap are made of one or other of the fixed alkalies potash or soda com- bined with fat or oil. We explained above that it is the alkali which gives to soap its detergent quality, and which renders it soluble in water. The tallow serves to moderate the sharpness of the alkali, and to prevent its injuring the hands of those who use it. 6446. There are two principal varieties of soap, hard and soft. The former is made of soda and tallow or oil, and the latter of potash and similar oily matters. When taUow and soda alone are employed, the soap is white, hence it is usually termed white soap : but to lower the price, in forming yellow hard soap, a considerable portion of resin or palm oil is mixed with the tallow. When potash is mixed with tallow or oil, the resulting soap does not assume a solid form, and its consistence is never greater than that of hogs' lard : this makes the soft soap, the detergent properties of which are nearly the same as those of hard soap, but it is not so convenient for general use. 6447. Common hard white soap is made in the following manner: — The alkali employed is soda, procured from barilla or kelp. In order to cause the alkali to unite with the fat, oil, or tallow, to make a soap, it is necessary that the former should be in a caustic state, instead of that of a carbonate, and to this end it must be deprived of its carbonic acid. To effect this, the barilla or kelp is pounded and mixed with one-fifth of its weight of fresh quicklime in a large vat, and some water is then sprinkled over it to slake the lime, which then falls into powder, and the alkali is mixed with it by means of a shovel; the quicklime then attracts the carbonic acid from the alkali, which is consequently left in a caustic state. After standing for several hours till this is completed, some water being added, the liquid, containing the caustic soda in solution, and now termed a ley, is drawn off. More water is then put on the alkali, and is drawn off as a second ley. The tallow or oil is next put into a boiler, and when it is quite melted, the ley is gradually added, and the mixture is kept constantly stirred. The alkali and oil soon begin to unite into a milky fluid, and as more ley is added, this liquid thickens. In about thirty hours, it is found that the consistence is sufficient, and then a quantity of common salt is added to cause the