MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. cChap. II. 1141 4 D 3 . corn along with gi-een food is unprofitable ; for the grain, thus mixed, passes rapidly oif from the stomach, and is never perfectly digested. 6774. Pasturing horses. — We have stated that grass is the natural food of the horse ; land it is the kind most conducive to his health. Horses worn down with work, disease, , or bad food, are frequently sent out into the fields to renovate, and he is then said to be "turned out to grass." Pasture fields differ considerably as to their situation, air, ■ moisture, or dryness, and the species of grass that grow in them. Some are hard and I injurious to the feet, others are too soft, wet and marshy. Those on the sea-shore are by > some thought to be peculiarly renovating, except they are occasionally overflowed by the . ? salt water, and converted into marsh, when their salubrity is very questionable. It requires • some judgment to determine when it will benefit a horse to send him to pasture, or > whether giving him green food in the stable is preferable. The plants that form grass ^ being of gi-eat variety, some of them are much relished by the horse^ while others, though ; luxuriant and agreeable to the eye, are never touched by him, except there is nothing I else to eat. He is therefore continually occupied in selecting those kinds which are most . agreeable to him ; this causes him to take a good deal of exercise, and the exposure to : the air is in general favourable to health. It is remarked, that horses that have been 1 long accustomed to the stable often have stiff necks when first turned out to graze, from ; the alteration in the position of the head when feeding ; but this soon wears off. 6775. In turning horses out to grass, care should be taken to select favourable weather, . and to inure them to the change from the warm shade gradually by letting them remain i in the field at first only a short time, and by leaving off their stable clothing a little I before going to grass. Spring is the season when he receives most benefit; the grass is : sweetest and most tender and digestible ; sometimes it is even medicinal ; he is then also ! less tormented with flies than in the summer, when the heat is often too great. The : autumnal grass is much inferior, and perhaps may then be deficient in quantity, in which case he requires a supply of corn. 6776. Hay is grass cut during its flowering time and dried. In making hay it is first spread out and exposed to the sun and air for a proper time, and then it is collected into large masses called ricks, when it is supposed that a certain degree of fermentation takes place, which fits it for being wholesome-and nutritious, as well as for its preservation ; it is afterwards dried thoroughly. If suffered to remain too long in the rick, the ferment- ation proceeds too far, and it becomes heated and is termed mow-burnt, when its nutritive properties are injured, and it acquires noxious properties. The quality of the hay is a matter of great importance to the health of horses, particularly when they are fed much upon it. Good hay should be a year old, and have a pleasant smell and taste. New hay is laxative, and though horses are fond of it, it seems not to bo very digestible, since much of it passes through him unaltered. If the hay is too old, it becomes dry and tasteless ; horses will scarcely eat it. It is said that the making of hay is performed more skilfully in the vicinity of London than elsewhere. When hay is in the least mouldy, it should not be given as food. Sometimes hay is salted to prevent fermentation in the stack ; the horse relishes the salt, which is supposed to assist the process of digestion : but it is not well to feed him long on salted hay. Grass in drying loses half its weight ; and hay gets drier as it is older. Many horses thrive best on clover hay, particularly draught horses, who are very fond of it. In the market it costs twenty per cent, more than meadow or rye grass hay. A horse can live on hay and water ; and when not used for work, he often receives nothing else ; but this food alone is not sufiiciently strengthening: he then becomes feeble and pot- bellied. On hay and corn horses may be fed for a long time without inconvenience; when illness attacks them, soiling in some cases is resorted to as a remedy. In gentle- men's stables, scarcely any other than meadow hay is admitted. 6777. Straw is little wed in England as fodder for horses, but it is employed in many places on the Continent, where there is little or no hay. It is sometimes given to farm- horses, but seldom to coach-horses, being less nutritious than hay. Oat straw is prefer- able to that of wheat, but that of barley is so poor and brittle as to be unfit. Some more nutritious and less bulky food may be added to straw when it is given. The haulm of beans and peas, but especially the latter^ when well harvested, forms a very hearty species of fodder. The stalk of the beans is tough and somewhat woody, and is seldom used, unless softened by being bruised, cut, and steamed. Pea haulm is succulent and nutritious, and is much relished by cattle ; but it should be given cautiously, as it is apt to produce flatulency. It should not be kept so long as to grow musty. 6778. Corn.—Several kinds of grain are used as horses' food, varying in value according to the proportions of their chemical constituents. In Great IJritain oats is the general horse grain. It contains seven hundred and forty-three parts in a thousand of nutritive matter. The oats should be nearly a year old. If new they are more difficult to digest, and when eaten in considerable quantities are apt to occasion colic. Musty oats are very unwholesome: oatmeal is sometimes made into gruel for horses that are sick. Oata