ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 56 Book 1. 227. A paint fur outside-work, called Anticorrosion, is sold in London. It is made of ground glass bottles, scoria from lead works, burnt oyster-shells, and similar materials, mixed with the usual colouring pigments. It is sold in powder, and when to be used it is worked up with raw linseed oil. It is more difficult to lay on than common paint, and ■wears out the brushes fast; but it is cheap and extremely durable, never blistering, and if well done lasting a lifetime : hence it is much employed in government works : it is particularly good for protecting cast-iron, stones, tiles, &c. 228. The following methods of preserving wood do not properly come within the usual practice of the painter, but they are useful on particular occasions. 229. Charring the outside of wood that is put into the ground, as the ends of pUes, posts, and wood laid in the foundations, was practised by the ancient Romans, and is found very effective, as charcoal is perfectly incorruptible. 230. Coal tar is much better calculated to preserve outside wood and iron, as well in land as in water, than vegetable tar. It is procured by the distillation of coals in making coke, or coal-gas. Its unpleasant smell and blackish colour are objectionable in many situations, but the former wears olf in a few months. 231. Tar varnish is made by melting common tar over a slow fire, and stirring in as much coal-dust or powdered charcoal as will make it thick. If required to be brown in- stead of black, put Spanish-brown instead of charcoal. 232. The tar obtainedin the manufacture of pyroligneous acidhas been recommended by the late Mr. Parkes as the best preservative of every kind of wood fence. For this purpose, it should be gently heated in an iron pot, and laid on with a brush. It soaks into the wood, and seems to leave " no body," as the painters express it; but after some days' ex- posure to the sun, the surface and texture of the wood will be much altered, for itwUlbe so hard and impervious, that it will be very difficult to make any impression on it. If a second or a third coat of the tar be laid on, it will then bear out. When these are di-y, if required for ornamental work, it may be painted in oil in the usual manner. 233. A coating to preserve wood in damp situations may be made by beating twelve pounds of resin in a mortar, and adding to it three pounds of sulphur and twelve pints of whale oil. This mixture must then be melted over a fire, and stirred well while it is melting. Ochre of any required colour, ground in oil, may be put to it. This composition must be laid on hot, and when the first coat is dry, which wiU be in two or three days, a second coat may be given ; and a third, if necessary. 234. Gas tar, with yellow ochre, makes a very cheap and durable green paint for iron rails and coarse woodwork. 235. Composition to lay on a boarded building, to resist the weatJier, and likewise fire. Take one measure of fine sand, two measures of wood ashes well sifted, three of slaked lime ground up with oil, and mix them together ; lay this on with a brush, the first coat thin, the second thick. This adheres so strongly to the boards covered with it, that it resists an iron tool, and the action of fire, and is impenetrable by water. 236. A flexible paint for canvass, is made by stirring into fifty-sLx pounds of common oil paint a solution of soap lye, made of half a pound of soap and three poimds of water : it must be used while warm. 237. A black colouring for garden walls may be made, by mixing quicklime, lamp black, a little copperas, and hot water. 238. A method of rendering fish-oil applicable to the purposes of painting was communicated by Mr. Vanherman to the Society of Arts ; and it appears to be a good and a cheap vehicle for pamt for out-of-doors work which is much exposed to the weather. " Add to 32 gallons of vinegar, 12lbs. of litharge, and 12lbs. sulphate of zinc, shaking the mixture well twice a day for a week. The mixture is then put into a tun of fish-oil, with which it is well shaken and mixed; and the next day the clearer part, about I of the whole, is poured off. 12 gallons of linseed oil, and 2 of oU of turpentine, are then added to the clear part, and this, being well shaken together, is left to settle for two or three days, when it will be fit to grind white lead and all the fine colours in : these, however, are to be thinned for use with linseed oil, and oil of turpentine. SuBSECT. 8. — Fresco painting, and Encaustic. 239. Fresco is a hind of painting, performed with water colours on a ground of stucco while it is still wet, and admits of the colours sinking in, and drying with the stucco. It is extremely durable, and bears washing without injury : but it is very difficult to execute, because it must be performed with great rapidity, on account of the necessity of beginning and finishing a part while the stucco is still moist, on which account, a picture cannot be sketched in, and carried on gradually, as in oil, since no more ground ought to be laid in one day, than the painter can cover in that time ; and he must complete immediately the painting on that portion, since the work cannot be retouched, except by distemper, •which is imperfect.