Chap. YI. 1171 POULTRY. time, they get particularly fat, owing to the plentiful supply of com, and then they are styled barn-door fowls, wliich are considered by some as the most delicate and high- flavoured of all others, both from the full allowance of the best food, and the constant health in which they are kept, by living in a natural state, and having their full enjoy- ment of air and exercise. The same advantages may be obtained from a good poultry yard, and feeding them in a similar manner, hut there is liltewise an artificial mode of fattening that is generally practised, not only by those who bring up poultry for sale but by others. In this method the poultry not only receive plenty of the most nourishing food, but they are prevented from having their usual exercise, which naturally induces obesity. In Mr. Wakefield's "establishment the poultry were fattened successfully with steamed or roasted potatoes given warm three or four times a day ; the chickens and pullets, after having been brought to condition in the yard, were confined in dry, well-ventilated coops and covered in, so as to prevent the entrance of too much light. In this mode of fatten- ing in general, they are kept in coops so confined that they can scarcely tui'n themselves, and the food is varied sometimes in different places according to custom. Keeping them in the dark appears to be an important part of the process, but they must likewise be kept clean, and each fowl by itself. Besides potatoes, boiled barley, or meal made into thick gruel with milk or water, or mixed with potatoes, or any of the farinaceous foods which have been mentioned, as pea and bean meal, are particularly fattening. Confinement for ten days or a fortnight in this way will be sufficient for effecting the fattening of chickens. When kept too long, and made too fat, disease ensues. fi;)38. Chickens and/owls are fattened Jor the market usually by the process called cramming, which is force- ing the food down their throats eitlier in pellets, or by means of a cramming funnel. For this purpose in those counties of England most famous for fattening poultry, as Sussex, and Berks, and Kssex, various l;inds of food have been used, such as ground oats made into gruel, mixed with hog's grease or mutton suet, sugar, hot liquor, and milk; or ground oats, treacle, and suet, also sheeps' pluck, &c. ; a mixture of meal made of barley, wh^at, millet, maize, and the liVe, soaked in milk; or oatmeal and water with milk. 'I'hese are the least objectionable materials; but it is said that poulterers employ likewise animal garbage, which can scarcely produce wholesome flesh. In our Section " On Food," Book VII. Chap. V. Sect, II , where we treated of poultry, some observations by Mr. Mowbray will be found on the probable effects of cramming, which we need not repeat; at the same time it may be observed, that, provided the health of the fowls does not sufTer by this mode of feeding, and if only the materials we have mentioned are employed, there may not perhaps be much objection to this mode of fattening. 6939. Capons fatten better than other fowls, and the operation of making capons is practised ' by persons who make a trade of it; and is generally best to employ them when they can ' be had. They are put up in coops to fatten, and are not allowed to go into the yard, as I the other poultry would destroy them. They are not subject to moulting. 6940. One of the principal objects in the keeping of poultry by a private family is to have i fresh eggs. The time for the hens laying eggs depends much upon the warmth in which 1 they are kept, and, therefore, in general, on the season. Cold retards or prevents this, and hence the scarcity of eggs in winter. There are two periods of the year when i poultry lay most: these are spring and autumn. The approach of the time for laying : is denoted by the hen's cackling, which she does three or four days before she begins: and she then appears very restless, seeking about for a place to lay in, which, after some ; time, she will choose : but she will require then to be well watched, and means must be employed to induce her to lay in one of the nests prepared for this purpose, for want of which she will be apt to go to some inconvenient place, and it sometimes happens that it is ' difficult to discover the eggs ; but after she has settled herself, she will return again to the same nest. There is a considerable difference in the number of eggs that the different ■ breeds will lay, as well as of the chickens in each breed. Some hens will lay an egg every 1 day ; others, one every other day ; and others, only one in every three days. 'I he best ! hens for laying are generally considered to be the dark-coloured, black, brown, or tawny russet; the white are not so good. Pullets, in their first year, if early birds, will probably lay as many eggs as ever after : but the eggs are small, and such young hens are un- steady sitters. The best layers are the Poland breed ; the Dorking are likewise good; the latter are remarkable for their tameness and good temper, and possess every good quality required in a small stock. Hens are in their prime at three years old, and after four or five years they lay eggs frequently, and cease altogether on becoming very fat: it is not advantageous to keep them after that period. The eggs should be removed ■ each day as they are laid, as they are liable to be spoiled by the warmth of the hen. They are best kept for a short time in bran, with the large end uppermost: some recommend their being turned every day, but this is useless labour, as the yolk cannot be displaced I except the membranes give way or become relaxed by the eggs becoming very stale. For 1 the best methods of preserving eggs for a long time, see " Preservation of Food," Book X. : Sect. IX. The chief secret of having new-laid eggs in the winter season is to keep the hens very warm and comfortable, feeding them on cooked food, and to have them young, ■ or at least early in moulting, so that the renewal of their feathers may take place in the beginning of winter. 6941. Moulting.—Hens, after they begin to lay, continue to do so mostly through the 4 F 2