ON FOOD. 888 Book VII. ScBSECT. 4. — Varieties of Butter used in England. 1973. Epping butter is the kind most esteemed in London, on account of its richness, firmness, and fine colour, and is made entirely from cream. This name was originally given, and properly belongs, to butter made from the milk of cows that feed during the summer months in Epping Forest, where the leaves of shrubby plants and wild herbs contribute to improve the flavour : a good deal of butter is still made in that district; but much of that made in other parts of Essex goes under the name of Epping butter. It is made up for market in rolls which weigh a pound each. The fine colour is in general natural to it; but some manufacturers, it is said, use the juice of carrots or marigolds, which they mix with the cream before churning. 1974. Fresh bailer is sent up to London by waggon from several other counties, as Suffolk, Oxfordshire, Yorkshire, Devonshire, &c. It is made up into various forms by the London dealei-s, and sold at different prices according to the quality. A great deal of excellent butter is made in the rich vales of Buckingham and Oxford for the London market. The farmers there keep a large breed of cows, often in herds of fifty or sixty. 1975. Cambridge butter is most esteemed in London next to fresh butter ; it is always a little salted, but not cured. This butter is produced from cows that feed one part of the year upon chalk uplands, and during the other part on rich meadows or fens. 1976. Dorsetshire bulter is nearly similar in quality. 1977. The mountains of Wales and the Highlands of Scotland, and the moors, commons, and heaths of England, produce excellent butter under proper management; which, though not equal in quantity, is far superior in quality to that produced from the richest meadows. 1978. Irish butter sold in London is necessarily all salted. Some of it is very good, and it is said that the best is sometimes sold in London for Dorset or Cambridgeshire butter, after having been washed and re-packed; but most of the Irish butter is of an inferior kind, owing chiefly to the want of attention and cleanliness in the manufacture. 1979. Dutch butler has acquired a deserved reputation all over Europe, America, and even India, and is imported in considerable quantities. Its superiority is owing to the fine pasturages of Holland, and in great part to the extreme care and cleanliness with which the butter is manufactured. The best is made in the vicinity of Delft and Leyden. What comes to London is of course a little salted: the price is considerably lower than butter of the same quality can be made for in England. 1980. Kiel and Ostend butter are well known in London, and when genuine are of excellent quality. The salt butter of Holland is said to be superior to that of any other country. 1981. IVhet/ btdtfr. — An inferior sort of butter is made from the whey that is separated from the curd in the manufacture of cheese, and is therefore chieHy produced in those counties where cheese is made in large quantities. It is said that in Derbyshire, perhaps, nearly as much butter is made from whey as from cream or from milk. The whey which is pressed out of tlie cheese is collected, and after twenty-four hours it is throwu up a scum or cream, which is churned for butter. SuBSECT. 5. — Butter-milk. 1982. This is the milk that is left after the butter has been separated by churning. In some districts it is either sold to the poor, or made use of by the farmers' servants ; but in large dairies it is most frequently employed as a food for the pigs, and in moisten- ing the bran which is given to the poultry in the farm-yard. When quite fresh it differs from entire milk, as Parmentier has ascertained, chiefly by the absence of the butter or oily part; but it retains the casein, sugar, and Salts of milk. In this state it is very nourishing ; and, being more easily digested than entire milk, it is sometimes recommended to invalids. As it is extremely cooling, it forms a useful beverage in warm weather, and is often drank by labourers in the fields as refreshing. It is particularly employed in this manner in Scotland. When kept a day or two it acquires an acescency ; tut it is proper to notice that the acid of butter-milk does not increase the acescency of the stomach, or occasion flatulence, as vegetable acids commonly do, and it may therefore be safely used by dyspeptic persons. In this state it is refrigerant, and should not be taken when the body is very warm. The butter-milk where cream has been churned is particularly rich and agreeable. It can seldom be procured in London ; but it is easily made in small quantities by putting some fresh milk into a closed vessel, and using the necessary agi- tation. 1983. Thick butter-milk.—In some places they put butter-milk into a linen bag. and let the whey drop through; what remains is then much thicker, and, eaten with sugar and cream, is excellent.