504 Book VII. ON FOOD. ticiilarly useful, being easily preserved during the winter in bottles. Currants arc not difficult to cultivate, and, being very hardy, they come within the attainment of every cottager who has a garden ; when they are trained against the walls of the cottage they have an elegant appearance, not unlike that of the vine. Like gooseberries, they owe their pleasant flavour to the sugar and malic and pectic acids which they contain. StTBSECT. 3.—Black Currant (Ribes nigrum, Linn.). 2790. The bhch currant is a distinct species, is a native of most parts of Northern Europe, and is certainly indigenous in Britain, being found growing wild in woods, wet hedges, and other moist situations. The fruit, which has a peculiar flavour disliked by some, is occasionally, though seldom, brought to the dessert, but is eaten in puddings and tarts, and made into, jelly which is supposed to have a medicinal quality, and is used for hoarseness and sore throats. In Russia, where it grows in great abundance, and of a large size, they make a wine from it, and it is put into brandy, as cherries are in England : in Ireland it is put into whiskey. Cottagers in England, as iu Siberia, sometimes mix the dried leaves of the tree with black tea, which gives nearly the flavour of a mixture with green tea; and it is suspected that tea is sometimes adulterated in this niauner. When trained against a wall the berries grow to an extraordinary size. The varieties called the black Naples and the black grape are excellent for the dessert. StTBSECT. 4.—Raspberry {Rubus Idceus, Linn.) 2791. This fruit derives its Linnajan appellation " Ida;us" from Mount Ida, where Pliny describes it to have grown. It was considered as a sort of bramble, though much improved by cultivation, and our name of raspberry is given to it from the rough spines with which the bush is covered. 2792. There are two varieties, the red and the white, both natives of Britain, and excel- lent for the dessert: the white is the sweetest. The flavour of the fruit is peculiar, but is very generally liked: it is, however, extremely volatile; even a few hours will diminish it, and, to be enjoyed in perfection, the fruit should be eaten ofiF the bush. If kept for two or three days, the flavour will be almost entirely gone. The fruit is sub-acid and cooling, and the red is much'used in tarts, and for jams, ices, &c. It also makes a delicious wine, and is employed for raspberry brandy and raspberry vinegar, a table spoonful of which in spring water makes a most refreshing beverage. 2793. Vast quantities are cultivated iu the neighboui-hood of Isleworth and Brentford, whence they are brought to Covent Garden market. ScBSECT. 5. — Strawberry {Fragaria vesca. Linn.) 2794. The name of this favourite fruit is said to be derived from an ancient custom of putting straw beneath the fruit when it began to ripen, which is now little attended to, but which is very useful to keep it moist and clean. The strawberry belongs to temperate and rather cold climates, and no fruit of these latitudes that ripens without the aid of artificial heat is at all comparable with it in point of flavour. The strawberry is widely diffused, being found in most parts of the world, particularly in Europe and America. 2795. The fruit has a delicious fragrance, and is universally esteemed for its agreeable flavour. It possesses a peculiar advantage of not creating acidity when taken into the • stomach. It is nutritious, and very wholesome, and may be safely eaten by gouty and rheumatic patients who have been forbidden the use of other fruit. In addition to its grateful flavour, it is sub-acid and cooling, which renders it pai-ticularly agreeable in summer. Strawberries may be eaten alone, or with sugar and cream, and physicians consider them not only as wholesome, but rank them among their pleasant remedies, particularly in feverish habits. , , . , , 2796. The varieties are extremely niimerons, but the principal strawberries, as ihe scarlet and Ciiili have been brought from America two hundred years ago : of these the pine is most esteemed, and the hautboy, though generally excellent, is the most variable. 2797 Strawberries ripen from June to August and September ; but the mam crop is over in' July. One variety, a small red strawberry, grows wild in our woods, and is mentioned as an article of ordinary consumption in the time of Henry V I. The fiue aromatic flavour of this fruit is not very durable, and a slight shower will sometimes almost entirelv destroy it ; on this account it should be gathered in dry weather, and the same d iy when it is to be sent to table. The strawberry is a kind of rock plant, and grows best on artificial banks, composed partly of broken fragments of rock.