459 .Chap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS, SuBSECT. 3. — Close-headed Cabbages (Brassica oleracea, Division 2, capitata.). 2429. The second division of the brassica consists of those which form their leaves into la round head, as the common white and red cabbage, or into a long head, as the savoys ; besides the common white and red, there are several other varieties, as the drum head, sugar loaf, &c., and the sub-varieties are brought into use in dilferent seasons, as they are rrequired, some being early, others late. 2430. Tlte white cabbage is the most common garden sort. The heads, when well formed, lare externally of a yellowish green colour, and the internal part is very white or blanched; ; these are from three to twelve or even fifteen inches in diameter, and weigh from two to I twenty pounds; but the larger varieties are used only for cattle. They are all raised ffrom seeds, are biennials, and are therefore sown the year before it is expected they will thave large heads. The first season, while the plants are young, they are often employed las greens, under the name of cabbage plants, or cabbage coleworts; these are pulled up by [ the roots, and carried to market in that state, which preserves the sap better than when I the roots are cut off. Others are transplanted; and when a little farther advanced, when t the heads begin to form, they constitute what are called summer cabbages. The heads are L'cut off at various times, according to taste, and the demand for them. In the winter their I'form is completely round and compact, and they are employed for various purposes, for ( family use, sea stores, or for cattle. If the ground is wanted, the stalks are pulled up, but ssometimes they are left in the ground all the winter; and in the next spring fine new s shoots proceed from the stems, which are gathered for greens, under the name of cabbage • sprouts, and which are not inferior to young cabbages. In early cut cabbages these ^sprouts often form little tolerably firm heads in the autumn; in the sugar loaf cabbage '(Particularly, and other forward kinds; these, while young and green, constitute some of ; the most excellent culinary greens of the season. Gardeners generally suffer a certain n number of the strongest cabbage to remain for the purpose of producing sprouts. 2431. The red cabbage is of the same general form as the white, but is naturally rather oof a purplish colour, mixed with brown, than red. The bluish purple colour, like all vvegetable blues, is turned red by any acid; and hence its colour, when employed as a j'pickle, which is the chief use to which it is applied with us. Its bluish juice is an eexcellent test for both acids and alkalies ; for it turns red with the former, and green by ! the latter. In Germany they make from this cabbage, as well as from the other varieties, ! their favourite sauer kraut; for the manner of preparing which see Book X. Chap. III. ■■" Pickling." The best kind for pickling is the large red Dutch. The dwarf red, which i:is more delicate, is principally used for stewing, and is much grown for that purpose on I the Continent. 2432. Savoys are likewise close-hearted cabbages ; but they are distinguished from those .lalready described, by their leaves being very much wrinkled. They are sweeter, and of la more tender texture than the others, particularly the central leaves. They are a winter ^vegetable, and their season is from November till spring. The dwarf savoy is much iiimproved by frost; and the yellow savoy will bear very severe weather without injury. IThe green is most tender. 2433. Brussels sprouts.—These are considered as a sub-variety of the last, and are t'rthought by some to be the most agreeable of the cabbage tribe. The stem, particularly idn Flanders, is sometimes four feet high ; and from the places where the leaves join on -sprouts shootout, which form small green heads, like cabbages in miniature, each being ifrom one to two inches in diameter; the main leaves drop off early. The top of the pplant resembles a savoy planted late in the season; it is very delicate in taste, and quite idifferent from the leaves. At Brussels, where they are used as winter greens, they are uusually served up at table with a sauce blanche, comprised of vinegar, butter, and nnutmeg. The tops should be gathered a week or ten days before the sprouts; and the kiatter, when cooked, should be carefully drained before the sauce is added. The sprouts aare best if they have been touched by the frost, resembling in this respect savoys. 2434. Cauliflower and broccoli (Brassica oleracea. Division, Botrytis). This division I'comprehends those which form a head of their stalks and flowers. It was a favourite •saying of Dr. Johnson, " Of all the flowers in the garden I like the cauliflower best." It sis indeed the most delicate of the brassica tribe. 2435. It differs from the other varieties, in having its flowers extremely numerous and ;ompact, planted upon a short, thick, succulent stem, and forming a curd-like head that icarcely rises above the leaves. This stem, with the mass of closely-planted flowers, is the lart which is cut off and dressed. 2436. It is not certain at what period the cauliflower was iiitroduced into English horticul- ure; but it was cultivated here about the beginning of the seventeenth century, and came o us from the Island of Cyprus. Its cultivation in England has been very successful; md though the Dutch horticulture long excelled the English, yet this vegetable was pro-