137 ! Chap. III. CANDLES. l it is impossible to speak with certainty, as it is kept secret by the makers. Their colour is generally an opaque white; but some have an artificial tint of pale yellow, to make ; them resemble wax candles. They have the advantage of burning without snufiing, and, -supposing them to have no deleterious ingredient, they are useful, being about half the . price of the best wax. Sect. V. COCOA-NUT CANDLES. 634. In Subsection III. we gave an account of cocoa-nut oil, which is not fluid enough : in our climate to burn in lamps without a particular contrivance: and it is not solid I enough to be formed into candles. 635. Advantage was taken of the discovery of Chevreuil, and a patent teas taken out in ' 1829, hy Mr. Soames, for separating the stearine from the oily principle of the cocoa-nut, ■ without saportification, for the purpose of manufacturing candles. The following is the 1 method employed: —the oil is imported of the consistence of lard ; is made up into pieces ; two feet long, three or four inches wide, and an inch and a half thick: these are wrapped ; up first in linen and then in sail cloth. These packages are then laid side by side, and : subjected to a hydraulic press, in the temperature of about 50° or 55"^, but not exceeding ! 60°. The oil or elaine will come through the cloth, and the stearine will remain. This • solid portion is now taken out of the bags in the press, and is next to be purified from the i other vegetable principles with which it is usually combined, such as fibre, mucilage, &c. For this purpose it is put into a covered boiler placed in a water bath to prevent burning. ' There is then added to it two per cent, by weight of sulphuric acid, diluted with six parts I of water. When this is boiled, the impurities are coagulated and precipitated ; and they : are separated by skimming, straining, and filtering, while warm in the fluid state, and by : allowing them to settle in the cold state. The substance thus obtained is of firm consist- ence, and form an excellent material for candles. The candles are made in moulds in the usual way. They burn with a flame nearly equal to that of wax, certainly giving more light than the same sized candles made of tallow ; nor is there any disagreeable odour. They are not, however, equal to the stearine wax. 636. Tlie elaine, or liquid cocoa-mit oil, which has been pressed through, is purified by mixing with it from one to two per cent, of common sulphuric acid, and agitating it in a vessel like a barrel chum. When drawn off, it has a dirty whitish appearance ; but when allowed to rest a scum rises to the surface, which is removed, as well as a sediment which falls to the bottom, leaving the oil nearly clear, and fit for burning in ordinary lamps, and other purposes. Sect. VI. - palmer's candles. 637. These are altogether a very ingenious invention, not requiring to be snuffed. The candles are made of tallow. To form them, to a portion of the strands, about a tenth part of them, is applied a portion of bismuth in a finely divided metallic state, or else the nitrate, or any other similar preparation of bismuth. The portion of the wick thus pre- pared is surrounded by more strands, till it becomes half the thickness required for the wick, which is the ordinary thickness of a tallow candle. This prepared wick is then cut into lengths twice as great as that of the proposed candle. The wick is next twisted spirally round a thick steel wire, in contrary directions. A notch is made in the lower l-ig. 101.