431 FISH. Chap. VI. live eels, for which the Dutch merchant pays a duty of 13/. per cargo, for liis permission to sell. 2247. As an article of food, eels are extremely rich and nutritious : but on account of the large quantity of oil which they contain, they are apt to occasion derangements of the digestive function, and require as a corrective to be eaten with vinegar, or some other condiment. Their use in pies is well known. They are also eaten fried, stewed, and plain boiled. 2248. There arc several varieties of the fresh-water eel. The true silver eel, so called from the bright colour of its belly, is caught in the Thames, and is superior to most ■ others. Those taken in running water are preferable to what are taken in ponds; the i latter often have a rank muddy flavour. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are of this i kind. The sand eel is a small fish of a delicate flavour, found buried six or eight inches i in the sand left dry at low water. 2249. The body of the eel is covered with a slimy mucous substance, which makes I them very slippery, and difficult to hold in the hand, whence the well-known saying. It i is a common notion that eels have no scales ; but that is an error ; they have scales, ' which are easUy seen when they are wiped and dried, particularly if a magnifying glass 1 be used. 2250. Tlie cruelty of skinning eels alive may be avoided, by first cutting off the head, ' which destroys life and sensibility. The writhing motions w hich they then exhibit in 1 being skinned are thought not to be owing to their being sensible of pain, but merely to what • is termed irritability, which does not cease immediately on the death of the animal. 1 Eels have this peculiar property—that they are never out of season, though they are 1 best in the summer months. 2251. It is a curious fact in natural history, that the manner in which eels breed is yet a [problem not completely solved. It has been generally said, that they are viviparous: but .■ Sir H. Davy observes, in his " Salmonia," no facts are produced in proof of the asser- I tion. It is certain, he says, that shoals of very small eels are seen in the spring, making I their way from the sea to the rivers: and that, in the autumn, great numbers are known t to descend from the rivers to the sea. They even ascend the rivers over wet mossy rocks, iln fresh water, they fatten and grow large." The opinion of this acute observer was, ; that eels are oviparous, and deposit their ova in parts of the sea, where they may remain vwarm in the winter, and that the young ascend rivers in search of food. 2252. Eels were considered by the ancient Romans as one of the most luxurious arti- I'cles of the table. They were kept alive in reservoirs, and occasionally tamed to such aa degree, as to come at the signal of its master, in order to receive its food. 2253. The Eel Pout, or Burbot, is a fish much resembling the eel, and is found buried aamong loose sands, weeds, &c., in the rivers Severn, Trent, and Mersey. They are ssweet and nutritious: in length from twelve to twenty inches. SuBSECT. 24.— The Minnoto (^Cyprinusforinus, Linn.). 22.M. This is a very small fish, inh.ibiting rivers, and brooks, and canals, and "chiefly known as affording lamusement to juvenile anglers. They are of good flavour, and when a sufficient number can be procured by ja casting net make an excellent fry, somewhat like white bait, but rather luscious and cloying. In Walton's t time, a dish called minnow tansies was made from them, now out of use. They were gutted, well waslied in I3alt and water, and after their heads and tails were cut off they were put with yolks of eggs, well beat with ccowslips and primrose flowers, and a little tansy shred small, and fried in butter: the sauce being butter, 'Vinegar, or verjuice and sugar. Sect. IV. SHELL-FISH 2255. Under this popular term we comprehend the two divisions of crustaceous animals, i-is lobsters, crabs, shrimps, &c., which have shelly coverings with feet; and molluscous unimals or molluscce', as oysters, cockles, periwinkles, &c. These are now separated by naaturalists from the class of fishes; they are in immense variety ; many are used as food, out some of the naked molluscae, or those without shells, are poisonous. Arranged under ! he genus cancer there is an immense number of Crustacea in different parts of the world, ! out only a few species are found on the British shores. SuBSECT. 1.—Lobster (^Cancer gammarus. Linn.). 2256. The common lobster frequents all the northern seas of Europe. They are found on I tie rocky coasts of England and Scotland, but chiefly where there is a depth of water. i^t quantities are brought to London from the northern parts of Scotland, and particularly 111 the Orkney Islands, in smacks that have wells for keeping them alive. They are' M. 1 more abundant on the coast of Norway, from which the metropolis is well supplied at ii'st seasons of the year. A recent traveller in Norway saw an export of 48,000 lobsters