SPIRITUOUS AROMATIC .DISTILLED WATERS, CnAP. V. 1059 cess of those operations. On pursuing the same process with the same oil and fresh alcohol, essences of inferior qualities may be obtained. Some perfumers state that it is better to use highly-scented pomades than oils. G324. Spirit ofbergamot. — This fine perfume comes from Italy, and cannot be prepared in .perfection in England for want of the fruit from wliich it is prepared, wliich is a species of lemon (Citrus limetla). The best is from Rome; that from Leghorn is inferior. Directions are given for making an mferior limd as follows • — Mix one gallon of proof spirit of wine, and one gallon of water, with half an ounce of Roman oil of bergamot beaten in a mortar with fine sugar. Put the whole into a still in a water-bath, and draw off six 6325! Spirit of lavender. - Infuse six ounces of fresh lavender flowers in one gallon of proof spirits, and digest in a sand heat. Repeat the infusion of fresh flowers four times, and an excellent spirit will lie ob- tafned. The flowers should be gathered very dry, stripped from their stalks, and kept in paper bags. Or, put a pound and a half or two pounds of fresh lavender flowers into a still ; add one gallon of proof spirit of wine. Distil off one gallon. This by some perfumers is called lavender water. It is apt to be adulterated with oil of turpentine. . . 6326. Spirit of ambergris. —Ueiwce to powder with loaf sugar oz. ambergris, 20 grains civet, musk 30 grains. Add the fourth of a green lemon, and digest the whole in 3 pints of rectified spirits of wine. 6327. Spirit qfmusk. — Reduce to powder with loaf sugar li oz. musk, 40 grains civet, and i oz. red rose buds. Digest the whole in 3 pints of spirit of wine ; or they may be distilled by an alembic. 6328. Hungari/ water This, though it retains the name of water, is properly a spirit.. Take of rosemary flowers, just gathered, two pounds ; rectified spirit of wine, three pounds ; put them together, and distil in a water-bath. Some add lavender flowers. That which is imported is generally superior to what is made here, which is probably owing to the manufacture. A very pure spirit should he employed. The best method of managing the distillation is to place the spirit in the still, and then place above the liquor, either an iron hoop, with a hair-cloth stretched over it, upon which the flowers are to be lightly spread, or rather a basket, supported on three pins, reaching down to the bottom. A gentle heat being applied, just sufficient to raise the spirit, its vapour, lightly percolating through the flowers, will imbibe their essential oil, which thus IS obtained extremely pure. A simpler Hungari/ water by infusion. — Add to a pint of rectified spirit of wine an ounce of oil of rose- mary, and two drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out for twenty-four hours ; shake it each day for a month, and then put it into small bottles well sealed. 6;)29. Eau de Cologne, improperly called a water, as it is a spirit— The following recipe is given by Dr. Granville for making this celebrated perfumed water equal in quality to that of Farina in Cologne, and at one- fourth ol^the expense:—Take of the essence of bergamot, lemon-peel, lavender, and orange-flowers, each one ounce, l.'i ounces of the spirit of rosemary and of the spirituous water of balm, "i pints of strong .alcohol. Mix the whole together, and let the mixture stand quiet for a fortnight. Put this in a glass retort, placed in a sand or water-hath, the latter of which may be heated by a lamp, and lute a glass receiver to the beak of the retort. The water-bath being kept boiling, the mixture in the retort will distil over into the receiver, which honld be kept cool with wet cloths. It should be kept for some time in a very cold cellar, or .an ice-house. 6330. Another receipt Distil as before in a wiiter-b.ath 3 ounces of essence of bergamot, Bounces of essence of lemons, 1 drachm of oil of rosemary, IJ ounce of essence of neroli, 1 ounce of oil of lavender, aud 12 pints of alcohol. 6331. Another Mix two drachms of essence of citron and of bergamot, and 1 ounce oflemon-pecl, J drachm of oil of lavender, 10 drops of essence of orange flowers, 3 drachms of tincture of benjamin, and 2 drops of oil of rosemary. The most celebrated maker of eau de Cologne is Jean Farina of Cologne. ra32. Eau de Luce Put highly-rectified spirit of wine and oil of amber into a bottle, in the proportion of four pounds of the former to one ounce of the liitter. Let these remain five days, sh.iking the bottle from time to time, by which means they will combine. Add to this four ounces of the best amber, powdered, .ind let the whole digest for three d,ays. Having decanted this clean, add to it sixteen pounds of the strongest pirit of sal .ammoniac, ,and eight pounds of highly.rectified spirit of wine. Take care the amber be genuine, for a great deal of what is sold for amber is a fraudulent composition. 6333. Eau de Cannes T.ike of fresh-gathered leaves of balm a pound and a half; the recent yellow rind of lemons, four ounces ; nutmeg and coriander, each two ounces ; cloves and cinnamon, each one ounce ; the ingredients lieiiig sliced and bruised, pour upon them six pounds of rectified spirits of wine, and tliree pounds of halm water. Digest the whole for three d.ays, then draw off six pounds by distillation. 6334. The French prepare n great variety of scented spirits, in wliich are numerous ingredients, of which the following m.-iy serve as an example. Spirit of cytherea. — 1 quart of spirit of violets, 1 of jessamine, 1 of tuberose, 1 of clove gilliflower, 1 of roses, 1 of Portugal, and 2 of orange- flower water. 6.33.5. 77(6 following general directions are given for gathering and preserving leaves, ilowcrs, roots, and sweet herbs for the purpose of distillation, or for seasoning in cookery. Vegetables should be gathered in dry weather, and when no dew is upon them ; they should be gathered fresh every year, and those which have been longer kept should be thrown away. Roots, for the most part, are to be dug up before their stems or leaves shoot forth. Barks are to be collected in the spring, when they are most easily separated from the wood. Petals should be gathered after the flowers have fully expanded, and before the seeds are mature; flowers in general when they are just full blown; seeds when they are ripe, and before they drop from the plant; they ought to be preserved in their seed vessels. Some vegetables are to be used in their fresh state ; others are first dried. When the latter is the case, they should be dried as quickly as possible, that their principles may be •.he least dissipated ; for this purpose, they should be spread out in thin layers in baskets, ■>r strewed upon a sieve, according to the nature of the substances, and exposed to the ■Tcntle heat of a stove or a common fire, so as not to alter their colour : when the leaves -legin to shrivel, they .should be turned frequently, and the heat should be continued till hey begin to crumble in the hand. When perfectly dried, they should be preserved in glazed jars closely'covered, not in paper bags, as often directed, and kept in a dry and ,varm situation. Some plants, the essential oils of which are very volatile, require to be oowdered immediately when dried, and to be preserved in well-stopped opaque bottles. The greater part of the oils prepared for perfumery and medicine are from dried plants. 6.336. Steam <iffbrds a very crrcllenl and regular heal for drying many sulistanccs, such as leaves of various ;ind.t. For this purpose nolliiiig more is necessary than a common tcu-kcltlo to generate tliu stcum, and u 3 Y 2