ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. 84 to give out a very agreeable heat, particularly ■when they are employed, only as an addition or assistance to an open fire. To cause hot water to circulate, it is not necessary that the top of the boiler should be closed; but in that case the circulation is effected upon a different principle : the pipe, when once filled with water, then acts as a syphon; the ascending part from the top of the boiler, and just dipping into the water, being the shorter leg, and the descending part, which returns to the bottom, being the longer leg of the syphon. Here the rapidity of the motion will depend upon the difference in the two legs of the syphon, and the different temperatures in the two currents, on the common principles of hydrostatics. This last method has some advantages, with the absence of danger from explosions, the close boiler requiring a safety valve. 368. The method first employed by Bonnemain is interesting in a historical point of view; and on this account, and as his mode of hatching chickens by its means has been attempted in London, we shall describe it. a, fig. 73. is a small boiler, from the top of which rises a tube, b, that passes into the inside of a wooden box, c, in which are shelves on which the eggs to be hatched are laid. This tube, after being bent backwards and forwards through the box between the shelves, returns at d, and enters into the boiler, passing down to the bottom. The heated water rises through this tube, and circulates Fig.73. through it in the manner we have already described 'vafig. 72., causing the temperature of the air in every part of the box to be very equal. This equality was much assisted by an apparatus which regulates the admission of air to the fire, the aperture decreasing as the fire burned more briskly, and increasing as the fire slackened, as in Arnott's stoves. The details of this contrivance may be seen in Gill's " Technical Repository," February, 1828. e is another box in which the young chickens were fed after they were hatched ; in this they nestled under sheep skins with the wool on. In the bottom of the case are little saucers with water to supply the humidity to the air which is necessary to hatching, y is a safety valve to the boiler. We may mention it as a remarkable fact, that although the hot-houses in the botanic gardens of Paris were thus heated fifty years ago, yet this had been so completely forgotten by the French gardeners and engineers, that their government sent to England in 1832 a deputation of professional men to study the subject, with the view of again heating their hot-houses in this manner. 309. The employment of hot water for warming houses has, however, been extended by Mr. Perkins, in consequence of a method which he adopted of conveying water in pipes heated far above the boiling point, even as high as from 300° to 600°. It will strike the reader, that as water can only be heated to 212° in an open vessel without being converted into steam, there must be here some particular contrivance by which the heat of water can be raised to 300°. The fact is, that provided the steam is prevented from escaping, or even forming, by the vessel containing iHk water being completely closed, that fluid may be heated to any degree that the vessel will bear without bursting; but in this case, the pipes conveying water heated so much must be sufficiently strong to prevent such an accident. The method of Mr. Perkins, .called by some the high pressure hot water apparatus, con- sists of a considerable length of an iron pipe, which, in consequence of being so intensely heated, is made only an inch in diameter; this is filled with water, and completely closed in all its parts. A portion of it is made in the form of n coil, a, fig. 74., either round or square, which is placed in a furnace or fire, and the water in it heated to 300° or more. The rest of the pipe is carried round the rooms to be warmed; and, if necessary, it is coiled also somewhere in the apartment, b, in order to get more pipe into little space : for the longer the pipe, the more heat it will give out This pipe afterwards, and of course the water, returns back to the coil in the furnace. As in the other mode of heating by hot water, one end of the pipe proceeds from the top of the boiler, while the other returns to the bottom of it, so in this the pipe goes first from the top of the coil and returns to the