BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 56G Book VIIL teniperatixre of the water will he at once considerably lowered ; but it is found that this lowering is not so great as if the water was poured upon raw barley ground : the fact is that some heat (that of a few degrees) is generated by the mixing together of ground malt and water, which does not take place when raw barley is used. Every one must have observed that heat is often excited by the union of two cold substances, an example of which is seen in mixing oil of vitriol with water suddenly. Now in producing the proper heat of the mash, allowance must be made for all this; and that might be done accurately, did all kinds of malt give the same increase of temperature ; but this is not the case, for the heating produced by the malt depends in some degree upon the manner of preparing it. High-dried malt heats more than pale ; and malt heats more or less in proportion to the temperature in which it has been dried. The heating from pale malt is very little, and may generally be neglected ; but that from brown malt is considerable, amounting sometimes, it has been said, to 40°. 3180. Another evil attends too hot a mash; namely, a portion of extractive matter is taken up by the wort, causing a degree of cloudiness which often attends the liquor through all the subsequent processes, requiring at last the use of fining in order to be got rid of. 3181. On tlie other hand, there are several evils accompanying ioo cool a mash. The conversion into saccharine matter will be incomplete; much starch remains unaltered; the wort so produced will be deficient in flavour, and be apt to turn sour before it runs off clear. It is more difficult to preserve a proper heat in mashing a small quantity than a large one, because in the former the heat is soon dissipated, and the mash is apt to cool too much, before the fermentable substance is extracted; hence it is necessary with small quantiti-es to employ as much heat as may be consistent with other circum- stances. Sometimes it is necessary to increase the heat of the mash, which may be done by pouring boiling water into a pitcher or tin pail, and immersing the vessel partly in the mash, but not so deep that the water can escape into it; the heat of the boiling water coming through the pail will warm the mash. 3182. After the mash has continued the proper time, it is run off by a stop-cock, or spigot and faucet, into a vessel placed below to receive it, called the under bach; this is, in the brewer's language, called setting the tap, a phrase probably borrowed from the old and simple fashion of letting off the wort from the mash tun by a tap tree placed in the bot- tom. This draining off the wort, which, if the brewing be considerable, is best effected by a stop-cock, requires to be done with caution, lest the grains in the mash tun should be disturbed, and choke up the holes in the bottom. To avoid this, which would prove very troublesome, and risk spoiling the brewing, the stop-cock should be opened at first very little, and care should be taken that the wort runs clear; if it comes off foul, what has been drawn should be returned gently into the mash tub, and a little time allowed to elapse till it is found to run quite clear; as soon as this is the case, the whole, or all that is required, should be drawn off; but the clearness of the wort is essential. 3183. It must be observed, hovv'ever, with respect to the term clear, that, with all the care possible, the wort never flows from the mash tun absolutely transparent and bright, but there is always a dulness which is to be removed by the next operation, the boiling. The cloudiness which the wort sometimes will, after all, retain, is frequently, no doubt, owing to the water having been too hot, by which it has dissolved a small portion of the starch, inducing a slight degree of setting, which will be known by the wort having a slimy feel; but Dr. Thomson observes that some obscurity hangs about the cause of the occasional cloudiness of the wort, which sometimes, with every precaution, will continue all through the brewing, and which cannot be removed ultimately but by fining. The wort, as it first flows from the mash tun, will be, in general, of a fine amber colour; but its tint will depend upon that of the malt, pale malts giving light coloured worts, and brown malts giving darker coloured. 3184. Upon the whole, the actual temperature of tlie mash cannot be absolutely fixed by any jirecautions, which renders brewing more uncertain than could be wished, and demands some experience where great accuracy is required. But obsei-vations such as the above must form the basis upon which experience should be built. 3185. The whole of the extract of the malt is not obtained by tlie process we have just described, some of the wort already formed adhering to the malt, which will still contain a portion of undissolved extract which requires to be farther acted upon by the warm water, as in the case of tea or other infusions. 3186. These sccondand third additions of water to the maltare termed t}iesecond and third mashings. It must be evident that the strength of the ale or beer will depend chiefly upon the proportions of the malt and water, but partly upon the management, as well as upon the sort of beer to be made. The particular mode of adjusting the proportions of the materials and other circumstances upon which the strength depends will be considered in the " Practical directions." 3187. The first ivort being drawn, and put into the under-back, there are now several