::hap. IV. MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 381 -CHAP. rv. jnLK, BUTTEK, AND CHEESE. Sect. I. MILK, AND THE VAUIETIES OF FOOD PREPARED FROM IT. SuBSECT. 1. — General Bemarks. 1911. The general properties of milk are well known ; but it will be useful to describe >s chemical composition, and the various changes it undergoes : si&ce it is in consequence : t" these that we are enabled to prepare from it so many articles of diet. 1912. Milk is obtained only from the class of animals called Mammalia, and is intended T7 nature for the nourishment of their young. The milk of each animal is distinguished IT some peculiarities, but as that of the cow is by far the most useful to us in this part of Me world, our first observations will be confined to that variety. ; 1913. lF7jen the milk of the cow is taken away periodically, the supply is continued for Hime time; and hence the great value of this animal to man, who is indebted to her for irree of the most useful articles of food, milk, butter, and cheese. StJBSECT. 2. — Properties of Colo's Milk. 11914. Milk, when just drawn from the cow, is of a yellowish white colour, and is the oost yellow at the beginning of the period of lactation. Its taste is agreeable, and rather occharine. The viscidity and specific gravity of milk are somewhat greater than that 'water ; but these properties vary somewhat in the milk procured from different indivi- aals. On an average, the specific gravity of milk is 1.035, water being 1. The small i»ws of the Alderney breed aflFord the richest milk. 11915. On comparing the milk of two cows, in order to judge of their respective qualities, rrticular attention should be paid to the time that has elapsed since their calving, as the ilk of the same cow is always thinner soon after that time than it is afterwards ; and it ladually becomes thicker, though less in quantity, in proportion to the time that has lapsed since the cow has calved. 11916. The milk that is draton first at one milking is also thinner and of a worse quality aan that obtained afterwards; and the richness of the milk continues to increase pro- (•essively to the very last drop that can be obtained fi-om the udder. It is even said that (3 last milk is at least eight or ten times richer than the first. 11917. Mdk which is carried to a considerable distance, so as to be much agitated, and Doled, before it is put into pans to settle for cream, never throws up so much, nor such ibh cream, as if the same milk had been put into pans directly after it was milked. 11918. When exposed to/iea<milk boils at 199°, water boiling at 212° ; and in the boiling :i;urd or caseous matter is partly coagulated, rising to the surface in form of a pellicle, or irn skin: if this be removed it is soon succeeded by another, and the effect would go on 1 the residuum would have a watery appearance, and be incapable of furnishing any more bh pellicle. But when milk is very slowly evaporated without boiling, it forms a kind thick extract of milk, which is called franchipane; this, being mixed with sugar, iinonds, and orange flowers, constitutes a sweetmeat or custard. 11919. The quality of cow's milk varies considerably, likewise, according to the manner in i.ich the cows are fed and managed. In order to possess an abundant supply, it is neces- r\'y to have recourse to a constant and plentiful feeding of the animals with rich luxuriant 'Tjen food. Certain kinds of food atfect the flavour and richness of the milk. Cabbages il turnips impart their peculiar flavour, and injure its quality ; and the smallest quantity vwild garlic, if eaten by the cows, is discoverable by the taste. When fed on grains. ' lich is the case frequently in large towTis, cows give poor milk. 1920. Description of the spontaneous changes irhich milk undergoes.—When milk is iL-red to remain at rest for a short time, it separates into two parts. The cream rises ;the surface, a yellowish white unctuous fluid, with a peculiarly rich taste, containing ?; greatest part of the butter. After the cream has separated, and is removed, what imains is termed skivmied milk: this is much thinner than before, and has a bluish i.iite colour. The milk, now deprived of the cream, if exposed for a day or two to a nnperature of from G0° to 70°, becomes a thick coagulum, and during this change, it is land that the milk has become sour ; an acid has been formed, which has occasioned • • milk to separate into two portions, cnrd. called also caseous matter, and u'hey. The acid li ich has been generated and contained in the whey is the lactic acid. This coagulum, r 'd, or caseous matter, however, when produced by spontaneous change, is not capable 'forming cheese: for this purpose, it must be made in a ditt'erent manner.