94 ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. tunately, the introduction of coal more than compensated for their loss. From the abundance and cheapness of the latter substance, wood is now little employed as fuel in the British isles, except by the poorest classes, who in some parts still depend upon the refuse of plantations. In many parts of France wood is regularly planted for the fire, where the natural woods have been long since consumed. In Britain this is seldom' practised : nor would it, perhaps, be generally useful while coal can be had; though some have thought it desirable to do so for the benefit of the poor. 406. WheJi wood is used as fuel for warming apartments, it is cut into certain lengths and laid across an iron apparatus, called here dogs, or andirons, formerly universally used in our mansions, but which now are rarely to be met with. Wood makes a very cheerful fire, from its abundant and bright flame ; but it consumes quickly, and requires often renewing: on this account it is expensive, and the labour necessary to prepare it is also very considerable. It is likewise bulky to store, and must be kept very dry. It has the advantage of kindling readily, but affords an unsteady heat. For some purposes its flame is convenient, and for others the contrary. 407. Wood, when examined miniitehj, is seen to consist of longitudinal fibres, finer than hair, the interstices between which are filled up with a cellular substance, or tissue, the disposition of which varies somewhat in the difierent species of trees. This disposition is seen in any section across the tree. 408. Hie elementary principles of which all vegetables consist vi\il be particularly described in Chap. VII. Book VII., to which we refer the reader. We may here observe that wood, like all vegetable matter, is composed of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen ; which, when it is decomposed by burning, are separated from each other, and are re-united in other pro- portions, which constitute tTie products of the combustion. 409. When wood is burning, the hydrogen unites with a small portion of the oxygen, forming the gas called light carbonated hydrogen, and it is the combustion of this which constitutes the flame. (The nature of combustion has been described in Chap. II. Book II.; and that of flame will be treated of fully in Chap. I. Book IV.) A small quantity of other gases are generated by the combustion, as carbonic acid and carbonic oxide, by the union of some of the carbon with some of the oxygen ; but these are ineflective in the produc- tion of light and heat. When all these volatile products are given ofi" by the combustion, if the farther burning of the wood is stifled, charcoal would remain, which consists of the woody fibres alone, deprived of all the principles except the carbon, which, being less volatile than the hydrogen and oxygen, remains, preserving the original form of the wood. This charcoal, however, is capable of being burned likewise; for if the combustion be suffered to proceed, it will all disappear, its carbon uniting to the oxygen of the atmo- sphere, and thus producing carbonic acii. As wood contains, besides the principles we have enumerated, a small quantity of earths, alkalies, metallic substances, &c., incapable of combustion, these remain as ashes. (See Chap. II. Book XXII., "Laimdry.") 'VMien wood is burned in a chimney, the current of air up the chimney becomes diminished when the combustion is nearly at an end ; and though the embers of the charcoal still retain a state of ignition until they become reduced to ashes, yet as the fire becomes weaker the draught up the flue becomes less, and then there is danger of the carbonic oxide and carbonic acid gas that are generated from the charcoal coming into the apartment, their weight being greater than that of common air. A fire in this state, therefore, cannot be considered as healthy to sit over ; and the air of the apartment must become vitiated. But wood can give off no sulphuretted hydrogen, as it has no sulphur like coal. During the combustion, there is likewise some pyroligneous acid formed, the vapour of which gives that pene- trating effect peculiar to wood smoke. 410. The heavy and dense woods give the greatest heat, burn the longest, and have the densest charcoal. To the dense woods belong the oak, beech, alder, hazel, birch, and elm : to the soft, the fir, the pine of different sorts, larch, linden, willow, and poplar. Clement and Desormes found that woods give out heat in proportion to the relative quantities of their carbon. Under like dryness and weight, different woods are found to afford equal degrees of heat in combustion. The effect of wood in producing heat depends much upon its dryness. Count Rumford showed that unseasoned wood contains one-third of water; and much of the heat is expended in converting this into steam or vapour, which escapes up the chimney. With his improved boilers he made twenty lbs. of ice-cold water .boil with one lb. .of dry pine wood: the same wood unseasoned produced an effect less by one seventh. The quantity of moisture in newly felled wood amounts to from 20 to .'50 per cent.; birch contains 30, oak S.'), beech and pine 39, alder 41, fir 4.5. Wood felled for 12 months still contains from 20 to 25 per cent, of water; there is never less than 10 per cent, present, even when it has been kept long in a dry place; and though it be dried in a strong heat, it will often absorb from 10 to 12 per cent, of water. If it be too strongly dried, it.-; heating powers are impaired. Trees tlmt have attained their maturity without passing into decay, are the best for thu