978 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. dark. Soft short filaments are best adapted for spinning into wefts ; firm, long, and cy- lindrical ones are best for malting the wirey warps, and lace thread yarn. Formerly cottons were divided into white and yellow, but improved modes of manufacture have rendered colour of less importance than length of fibre, and the broad distinction at present is into " long stapled " and " short stapled." 67GI. Willi respect to the possmUy ofdistinpuis!iwg between the fibres of cotton and offiax. some verv in I„n. '■^1°''"'""'^ ''"f'y b/en Pnblished In the " Transactions of the Royal Society/' in -i pap/r b; ihethpi .nZ";'r h'"-, ,P" '"r'""^ ^^"l^ ''^BJP'" " "fP^"" ">at it has been a matter I doubt tthcther some of the cloth wrapped round the Egyptian mummies is not of cotton, notwilhstandinc thu general opinion that they are entirely of linen ; and that we find no mention among ancient auth fr" that the ancient Egyptians were acquainted with the use of cotton. Nor did it seem easy to determine this queslion c even upon the actual examination of a variety of specimens of the cloth which had been so em- ployed ; some persons pronouncing a piece to be cotton, which others contended was linen It appeared therefore, necessary to discover some test by which the one material could be distinguished from the other when woven into cloth. .Simple inspection proves insufficient nor do chemical means offer any assistance. Mr. Thomson conceived the idea of subjecting the hbres of cotton and of linen to examination by a powerful microscope ; this task was performed by the accurate Mr. Bauer, with the assistance of the improved achromatic microscope of PloessI, of Vienna. Mr. Bauer states that the fibres of fiax are cylindrical, and jointed like a cine, as a. Jig. 78G.; whereas those of cotton, although when in the green or unripe state they are cylindrical, but not jointed, as A, when ripe, and in the state in which it is manufactured they are fiattened and twisted like a corkscrew, as e. This corkscrew form distinguishes the fibres of cotton from those of all other vegetables, and gives an easy and accurate method of Pig.!^. determining whether any material is cotton or flax. All the specimens of mummy cloth so examined proved to be of linen. Sect. VI. COTTON OF VARIOUS COUNTRIES. 5762. Although the cotton plant is the spontaneous production of all the tropical regions, yet the quality of the downy fibre varies in some degree, according to the kind of plant and the country where it grows. 57G3. The American cotton is reckoned the best, and of this the finest is raised upon a group of low sandy islands on the coast of Georgia, whence it is termed sea-island cotton. It is remarkable for its long staple, the fiUiments being three times the length of the Indian cotton wool. It has a silky softness, and when well cleaned is preferred here to every other for spinning fine yarn ; indeed it is indispensable for the finest though it is not very white ; it is also highly prized by the manufacturers of lace. What is raised upon the sea-coast of Georgia is also excellent. The cotton of Berbice, Demerara, Surinam, and Cayenne, is of good quality, and long stapled. The chief market for American cotton is Liverpool. 6764. The West Indies produce some tolerable cotton, particularly in the Bahamas. 57G.'). India produces every variety, but the ordinary cotton of India is of the herbaceous kind, and an annual • it grows principally in Bengal and the Coromandel coast, where the best cotton goods are manufactured. The cotton of India, in general, is inferior to that of North and South America, being short, though strong in fibre, and the common kind can be spun into fine yarn only by the delicate fingers of the Hindoo women ; little of it is imported into England. 576G. Egyplinn cotton is now cultivated by Mehemet Ali in considerable quantity, and is of excellent quality, but seldom well cleaned. 5767. The Levant cottons are in general little esteemed, being fit only for coarse yarn and candle-wicks. In the infancy of the cotton manufacture, England received her supply of the raw material from the Mediter- ranean and the Levant. 5768. In our cotton mills, the several sorts of cotton are generally mixed together; thus the cheap and short stapled cottons of India are carded along with some of the longer American cottons, to make them work to the best advantage ; and much depends upon the skill of the cotton spinner in making one kind conceal or supply the defects of another. Sect. VII. THE cotton MANUFACTURE IN INDIA. 5769. The Hindoos have not only manufactured cotton cloth from time immemorial, but they have excelled all the nations of the world in the almost incredible perfection of their fabrics ; a circumstance the more remarkable when we consider the extreme simpli- city of their apparatus, and their entire want of the ingenious machines by means of wiiich we have endeavoured to rival them. Almost all the varieties of cotton fabrics which we have are made in India in abundance, and the coarse cloths worn by the natives are produced in almost every village ; but the finest fabrics of India are the muslins. For this elegant cotton fabric Europe has long been indebted to India, where, through the long lapse of ages, the manufacture has arrived at the utmost perfection. Various kinds of it, originally brought to this country from India, are distinguished by the names of the places where they are made; as jaconet, mulhnuls, betelles, tarnatans, tanjeebs, bukes, terridams, doreas, &c., of which we now make imitations. The exquisite fineness of some of the muslins which have been made in some parts of India would scarcely be credited, were not the fact well attested. Dacca is a place cele- brated for its extremely fine muslins, which are not imported, and are scarcely known here. Of their exquisite delicacy, extraordinary accounts are related. Tavernier states, that the turbans of some of the rich Mohammedans at the court of Delhi were of so fine muslin that thirty ells did not weigh four ounces; and it is said that some of their broad