169 ILLUMINATION BY MEANS OF GAS. Ghap. V. ■ pines leading from the vessel to the place where _it is to be burned. But as all the products of the coal are not proper for combustion, and some of them are injurious, the ; gas is first conducted into vessels, where it is purified by several processes. After this ■ it is passed into a recipient called a gatiometer, from whence it is sent to the various places ■ where it is to supply light. A familiar idea may be formed of this process by a very : simple experiment. Put a few bits of good coal into the bowl of a tobacco pipe, and I cover the top of it with pipe clay made into a thick paste. When this is dry, introduce I the bowl of the tobacco pipe between the bars of the grate into a clear part of the fire, : and let it remain till the whole is red-hot. Apply now a lighted taper to the end of the : stem of the pipe, and a flame will be seen, occasioned by the inflammable gas that issues I from the decomposition of the coal. After the whole of the flame has burned out, the 1 bowl will contain only coke. 750. There are several varieties of inflammable gas. Pure hydrogen gas, such as is I produced by the action of diluted sulphuric acid on filings of iron or zinc, is extremely i inflammable ; but, though it affords much heat when burning, its flame is too feeble to 1 be employed for artificial illumination. The hydrogen that comes from coal by the above ) process is united to a quantity of carbon, and is called carhuretted hydnigen, which burns ' with a bright white flame. It is supposed that it is the combustion of the carbon that 1 gives out the greatest quantity of light; for the greater the proportion of carbon the E greater is the light. There are two varieties of carhuretted hydrogen ; one having more I carbon than the other: that which has the most carbon, called bi-carbureited hydrogen, or I olefiant gas, gives the greatest light; the other is usually termed light carburetted hydrogen, : and is the same as what rises in bubbles from the mud of marshy places when stirred. ' The gaseous products from coal consist of a mixture of these, with some others: and a L great deal of the beauty of the light obtained from coal depends upon the kind of coal t employed, the modes of conducting the process of decomposition in the retorts, and like- (wise of purifying the gas afterwards. It seldom occurs, in domestic economy, that this ; gas is prepared by an individual for private use ; but there are cases, in very large esta- ': blishments, where this is desirable. We shall describe, in general, the nature of the c decomposition of coal for this purpose, as stated by Dr. lire. 751. " When coals are heated in a cast-iron retort to ignition, the progress of decompo- ssition is as follows: — First, and before the retort becomes red hot, steam issues along 1 with the atmospheric air. When the retort begins to redden, coal tar distils in consider- .1 able quantity, with some combustible gas, of which hydrogen, mixed with ammoniacal ;gas, forms a part. The evolution of gas increases as the retort becomes hotter, with a I continual production of tar and ammoniacal liquor, as well as of sulphureous acid, from the 1 pyrites of the coal, which unites with the ammonia. When the retort has come to a ' bright cherry-red heat, the disengagement of gas is most active. By-and-by, the gaseous 1 production diminishes, and eventually ceases entirely, although the heat be increased. In I the retort carbonised coal or coke remains, while tar is found at the bottom of the receiver, c covered with the ammoniacal liquor, and combined with carbonic and sulphureous acids, ;i and sulphuretted hydrogen. " If, during this distillation, the combustible gas be collected and examined at the several - stages of the process, it is found to diSer extremely in its luminiferous .powers. That ■ which comes off before the retort has acquired its proper temperature gives a feeble light, a and resembles the gas obtained by the ignition of moist charcoal, consisting chiefly of Ihydrogen. That evolved when the retort has just acquired throughout a vivid red heat, lis the best of all, consisting chiefly of hi-carburetted hydrogen or olefiant gas. From sgood coal it consists, for example in 100 measures, of 13 of olefiant gas, 82'5 of carburetted 1 hydrogen, iro of carbonic oxide, TS of azote; the mixture having a specific gravity of ' 0'650. At a later period, as after five hours, it contains 7 measures of olefiant gas, 56 of ■carburetted hydrogen, 11 of carbonic oxide, 21-3 of hydrogen, 47 of azote; the specific -gravity of the whole being O'SOO. Towards the end of the operation, as after ten hours, it contains 20 measures of carburetted hydrogen, 10 of carbonic oxide, 60 of hydrogen, 10 of azote, with a specific gravity of only 0'345. The hydrogen becomes sulphuretted hydrogen, if there be much iron pyrites in the coal. The larger proportion of the gas is disengaged during the first hour, amounting to about ^ of the whole: in the three following hours the. disengagement is tolerably uniform, constituting in all ; in the ■ sixth hour it is ; in the seventh and eigiith hours ^'A." 752_. " From these observations are derived the rules for thcproduclion of a good light gas from coals. They show that the distillation should commence with a retort previously heated to a cherry red, since thereby good gas is immediately produced, and a portion of the tar is also converted into gas, instead of being simply distilled over into the condenser pit; that this heat should be steadily continued during the whole operaticra — from five to eigiit hours; that it should not be increased, especially towards the end, for fear of gene- rating carbonic oxide and hydrogen gases, as well as of injuring the retort when the cooling agency of gasification has become feeble ; and that the operation should be stopped