FRENCH COOKERY. Book XIV 910 5299. Another cliaracterislic in French cooking is the variety of flavours which it can impart to any single meat. From the long-continued action of heat allowed by French cooks, the juices of meats are almost entirely extracted to form the basis of soups, together with the gravies of various dishes, to each of which a variety in flavour may be given, the original one of the meat being so intermingled as to be scarcely distinguishable. In this way French cooking yields an almost endless number of dishes, prepared from a few original substances, which, by the art either of braising, marinading, or poeling, may be impregnated with any peculiar flavour the cook may desire to produce. The addition of an appropriate sauce, or puree, completes the efiect, and determines also the name of the dish, whether it be " fowls attx Truffes," " fowls a la Mirepoix," or " fowls a la Perigord." .5300. I?i English cooking, no flavour is considered to be equal to the one peculiar to each meat. Beef, mutton, or venison, would, at the English table, be considered as having lost their distinctive excellence, if in the cooking their genuine flavour were interfered with. Whatever condiment or sauce is employed as an accompaniment to each meat, it is always of such a modified nature as not to overpower that flavour which is peculiar to the meat, the juice of which, when, in a well-roasted joint, it issues from the opening made in carving, is considered as far excelling any which the cook can com- pound. 5301. Again, French dishes have always had a decided advantage over the English in appearance; they are made to please the eye as well as the taste. No heavy masses of viands are served at a French table; but light, elegant, and tempting forms are presented to those around it. In this respect the English cooks are beginning to reform their style, and to study, in serving, neatness and elegance in the arrangement of the contents of each dish. 5302. In the last place, the economy of French cooking must be noticed, and with appro- bation. In its various processes nothing is wasted; every particle has a use and conse- quent value. The flavour and richness of the meats are not obtained by any expensive means or prodigal use of them, but are the results of the modes of cooking skilfully followed. In English cooking, the maxim that " good dishes can only be formed out of good and abundant materials" is often carried to the utmost length in practice. Many ingredients in the English kitchen are cast aside, or reserved as the cook's perquisites, which in the French kitchen would he brought into use, and would render needless the employment of more expensive ingredients. In this slight comparison of these two prin- cipal systems of cooking, it may perhaps be perceived that from each might be trans- ferred to the other useful and valuable modes, favourable to the enjoyment of the table and to the economical use of food. CHAP. n. FRENCH COOKING TERMS AND PROCESSES EXPLAINED. Ateleis. — Small silver skewers. Assiettes. — Dishes with four compartments for chopped herbs, parsley, eschalots, &c., to which, being in the kitchen always at hand, the cook can resort at once. The chopped ingredients are prepared by the under assistants. Bain Marie. — A large flat vessel containing boiling water, in which dishes already prepared can be kept hot. See a woodcut of this vessel, fig. 685. p. 835. Braising consists of stewing without much moisture any article in a seasoning of carrots, onions, parsley, thyme, bay leaves, and cloves. Buisson is a high-standing remove on a dish of pastry dressed high. Comptde. — A fine mixed ragout to garnish white poultry, or to serve as entrees. Fruit also stewed with syrup for dessert is termed compote. Compotice. — The deepest dish appropriated to the compiles. ' En couronne. — To place or dress the articles of a dish in the form of a crown. Crustadcs. — Bread bilked in moulds, and hollowed out to receive farces of different kinds. Croutons. — Bread cut out in shapes and fixed in oil or butter ; these are ornaments of some of the mirotons and other made dishes. Dorey. — To cover pastry with yolks of eggs. Dortires are yolks of eggs well beaten. Desseitc.i. — Things left at table untouched, and afterwards used up in forming farces and salpic^ons, &c. Dormant. — A centre dish, allowed to remain during a whole dinner. Entrees. — Dishes served at the first course.