Book XXVI. PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1198 7093. Children advancing to the term of their first year will begin to exercise themselves spoutaneously, and this is far more salutary than any exercise can be -which is forced upon them : their own efforts will never harass or over-fatigue them; they will involuntarUy relinquish them as weariness grows upon them. 7094. Before encouraging children to use their feet we should look fo their actual strength, not deciding how far they should be urged to wallc by the actual number of months they have lived. It was not long ago considered as a reproach to a nurse if her nursling could speak before it could walk: to avert this supposed proof of bad nursing, many a child's real good has been sacrificed. Before its strength allowed it has been , urged to totter on its bending limbs when it should rather have been reposing on the floor, or only making its own natural movements proportioned to its strength. When a child's limbs are not sufficiently strong to support the body, the consequences of urging it to walk upon them will be curved legs and weakened ankles. All artificial means of inducing children to walk, such as the go-cart and leading strings, are happily in disuse. They were, when much employed, fatal to the healthy growth of a child. If a young child once acquires the art of crawling, it will soon do more, and try to use its legs; it will first raise itself by the support of a chair or stool, will then totter from one side of it to the other, holding itself up, and by repeated exercises of this kind the limbs will acquire the requisite power, and the infant will gain courage to trust to that power ; then it will walk alone. Many a fall it will have, but these will add prudence to its growing power. Let it be here observed that it is wiser, when a child has slight falls, not to run hastily to it, raise it up, or try to soothe it. Instead of going to its assistance too precipitately, it is better, if it be not really hui't, to let it help itself. This it will very soon do; and better also, than any one can do for it. We are now alluding only to the many trifling accidents in a child's life ; not to those of a serious nature, to which humanity as well as necessity prompts to immediate attention whenever they occur. We only recommend the discouragement of children's cries at small difficulties; aid given to these cries too promptly and too soothingly deprives children of that independence of spirit which eventu- ally we seek to inculcate in them. 7095. However, in beginning to walk a child must have some assistance. This should be given by holding it firmly under, not by the arms. It is frightful to see a child, held by one arm, swing its body round, in the eagerness of its exertions. Were the joints of the arms less limber than they are in childhood, such movements would nearly dislocate them. 7096. Scarcely is any sight more delightful to parents than that of the first setting off of their child; nor do they only feel delight, the happiness of the child to all appearance exceeds their own ; when first it is conscious of its independence, its state of ecstasy is almost enviable. Arrived at this happy epoch in its life, something further is yet to be done to give the child greater steadiness, and greater freedom of step and carriage. For this end long ivalks must be avoided. Children from a year and a half, to two years old should scarcely even walk more than a quarter of an hour at a time, if longer, the muscles of the legs will be weakened rather than strengthened, and the child's step will be unequal and unsteady, and its carriage awkward and waddling: were it possible, a child for the first three years of its life should rarely take a walk, but rather be turned into a garden, be it ever so small; there it can run, stop, walk slowly or fast, can stoop down to pick up pebbles or flowers, then rise up : in each movement, different sets of muscles are employed, one set being the safeguard to another of any overstrain upon it, by coming into play according to its rise in different postures and movements of the body. In walking at an uniform rate, in streets or on roads, one set of muscles are chiefly used, which soon tire, and give feelings of lassitude to the child it would never have experienced in the more varied change of the garden. 7097. As children grow older and stronger, athletic sports may be introduced among them, equally advantageous to girls as to boys, such as games at ball of various kinds, of battle- dore and shuttlecock, whipping tops, prisoners' base, tennis ball, and hooping, with other running games. Such sports as these will bring into healthy action the whole muscular system. The skipping rope gives excellent exercise to older children. The running and racing games should not be encouraged when children have coughs, or show any symptoms of diseased lungs. In such cases the rapid urging of the blood into the lungs caused by the exercise would be very prejudicial, and miglit bring on inflammation of the lungs. And the same caution will apply to children troubled with temporary bowel complaints. Children with delicate bowels should never be allowed to take long walks, and violently active sports they should indulge in very moderately. 7098. In all ordinary cases of children out-door amusements are the best. The only precaution needful is with delicate or diseased children, in whom exercise should be as regular, but not in degree the same as with the healthy. There are but few children wlio would not be the better for constant out-door exercise, were it properly proportioned to their strength and years. When town children are taken for health to the coast, they