I Chap. V. SILK FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. 985 I ment is at first double, but is immediately agglutinated into one. Tliis liquid matter 1 may be extracted in a lump from the body of the worm, and drawn out artificially into I threads of various diameters. At the commencement of spinning the cocoons, the fila- iments are thrown about without any regulai-ity, constituting what is called the^o«s silk; but i soon the anunal spins its thread and winds it about in a very regular manner, forming the I cocoon into an egg shape, and about an inch and a quarter in length. This is completed i in about three or four days; and the animal within has changed from the state of a cater- pillar to that of a chrysalis or aurelia. If the cocoons were suffered to remain about 1 eio-hteen or twenty days, the next metamorphosis would take place, and the butterfly or moth would burst through the cocoon, breaking the filaments asunder, thus rendering the : silk useless. To prevent this, the animals within the cocoons are killed before they are ready to break out, by exposing the cocoons for five days to the sunshine or hot weather, or by placing them in a hot stove, or in tin cases surrounded by the steam of boiling water. A heat of 202° is suflScient to destroy their vitality. The filaments vary in diameter from to jJgj of an inch, and the silk from one co- coon weighs about two and a half grains. The colour of the silk is yellow, and though of diiferent shades, there is no necessity for sorting it, as this difference disappears in the subsequent processes for preparing it. Besides the common silkworm, there are two other varieties that are partially cul- tivated ; one smaller, and the other larger, rarely attaining the length of three inches. When in its indigenous state in China, the silkworm performs its transformations and spins its cocoons on the gi-owing leaves of the mulberry-trees, from which they are taken ; but this silk is not so fine as what is produced in artificial cultivation ; and the Chinese bestow great care in attending the whole of the processes. On account of the difficulty of pro- curing food in sufficient quantity in England from the white mulberry-tree, other leaves have been tried : of these the leaves of the lettuce are most relished by the animals; but though they eat and subsist on them for some time, they then spin but a small quantity of silk. Sect. III. MANAGEMENT OF THE SILK TO FORM THREAD. 5794. To wind off the threads or filaments from, the cocoons would appear at first sight to be a veiy difficult operation, yet it is performed in a very simple manner. The cocoons are thrown into a flat basin of copper filled with water, kept heated by means of a charcoal fire or by steam. In this the gummy matter with which the fine threads are naturally cemented together is dissolved, which permits the filaments of the cocoons to be drawn off and wound upon a reel. But if each cocoon were to be reeled off separately, the thread would prove so slender as to be unfit for use. To make it sufficiently strong, several are wound off together, adhering by their natural gum, and forming one thread. In order to find the ends of the cocoons, on beginning this process the winder employs a whisk of birch; drawing this through the water, several loose ends of the filaments stick to it, and are thus brought out. To unite them together before they reach the reel on which they are wound, a sufficient number are made to pass through a small hole in an iron plate. The reel is of the common kind. It is reckoned that each cocoon yields on an average about three hundred yards of silk. Two hundred and fifty average sized cocoons weigh about a pound ; and eleven or twelve pounds of cocoons give one pound of reeled sUk, the remainder consisting of the weight of the inclosed chrysalis, floss silk, waste, dirt, &c. It has been estimated that a pound of the silk filament, as elaborated by the silkworm, would measure five hundred miles in length. 5795. What is simply drawn from the cocoons in the above manner by reeling is denominated raw silk, and a thread of this may contain from three to thirty filaments, the thread being sometimes composed of several groups which have first been formed of five or six filaments each, the whole being afterwards united into one quantity, the thread being thicker according to the number of filaments. When a sufficient length is reeled, it is taken off the reel, and is called a skein. It frequently happens in the course of this process, that the delicate filaments break, or that one comes to an end before the rest; in that case the winder must join on another to keep up the number; this is done simply by laying on another filament, as it readily adheres to the rest by means of its natural gum; but it requires great attention and skill to preserve the thread of an uniform size. The reeling off the cocoons is a very im- portant part of the preparation of raw silk, as the evenness of the thread, and the absence of knots or knobs, are points of considerable importance to the manufacture. In those countries where silk forms fi consldcriihle article of commerce, those who rear the silltworms do not wind off the cocoons themselves, hut sell them to others, who make the rcolinR off a distinct husiness. It is in tiie state of raw silk In skeins that this material Is imported from the countries wliero it is produced, as Italy, Spain, Portugal, Turkey, India, &c. 5796. The various operations hi/ which raw silk is brought into a state fit for the weaver are