ClIAP. I. WATER. rig. rising in the division a, and carrying with it all the impurities, which may be drawn off by a pipe fixed in the bottom. 297S. The principle of filtration being ivell understood, it ma;/ be varied in an infinity of ways, according to par- ticular localities, or to answer various purposes. A common cask, fig. 528., may be divided by parti- tions, and the filtering materials placed in one of the di- visions ; or without any vertical partitions, the cask, as in the annexed cut, may be fitted up for filtering. Let two cross partitions parallel to the heads be introduced at a and b, formed of wood perforated by a number of holes burned by a hot iron; over each partition put a piece of woollen cloth, and place between them layers of coarse and fine sand and of charcoal. Suppose that c is a pipe coming from the roof; the water supplied by it will pass through the filtering materials into the space below b, and may be drawn off pure by a cock, or a spigot and faucet at bottom. But suppose that it is de- sired that the filtration should be performed by ascent, as the most perfect method, then another cistern must be provided and placed on higher level, as d, into which the water to be filtered must be first conducted ; the water will descend through the pipe e, and enter the lower part of the cask, b, from whence, by the pressure of the water in d, it will force up through the filtering materials into the space above, at o, fi-om whence it may be drawn off by a cock. In this case the vertical partition is supposed to be omitted. In either case, there should be a waste pipe in the cask, li, to prevent its overflowing, and another in the cistern, g. The foul water may be let off occasionally by the spigot and faucet at bottom. In case of a deficiency of water from the roof, or supposing that none coidd be had from that source, but plenty from some other source, it is easy to see how the cask might serve as a filtering apparatus. If a funnel, /", be put into the top, the water poured into it will pass through the sand in the middle, and come out at the lower cock purified. The best way to clean the sand when it requires it is to take it quite out, wash it and the cask, and re- place the sand again. 2979. Another method of employing a cask as a filtering machine is the following. Hang the cask, a, fig. 529., on an axis passed through it, so that it may be turned round by a winch in the manner of a barrel churn: on the lower part fix a short, hollow, cylindrical piece, b, to contain a piece of sponge; and connect with it by means of a flange and screws, a pipe, c, to supply water from a cistern placed at some height above. Put sand and charcoal into the cask about one-third full. The water will rise through the sponge and sand, and when it arrives at d, in the cask, it may pass off by a pipe in- serted in the end or side of the cask, as may be found •P'g- 529. most convenient, into any reservoir or vessel to contain it. When it is required to clean the sand, it is only necessary to take off the pipe c, and the sponge, and having stopped up, temporarily, the short cylindrical hole where it was placed, give the cask, with water in it, several turns round by the winch ; this will wash the sand, and make it ready to filter again. 2980. It must be obvious frovi the above, that a very perfect Jittering apparatus may easily be made by any one possessed of the least ingenuity. All that is wanted is a vessel rather a Fig. 530. . a i nTTTTITIIIIIIIIIIII —J \r c should be three partitions: the uppermost should have an aperture to contain a sponge stuffed intoit, <■, to stop the worst part of the impurities of the water put in at the top ; the two lower partitions may be of wood perforated with small holes by a red hot iron, and having pieces of woollen cloth laid upon them : between these two the sand and charcoal should be put coarsely powdered, and, lastly, there must be a hole in the bottom vessel, at c, through which the filtered water may run into any- thing placed to receive it; and to avoid the expense of a cock, if the arrangement be as in the wood-cut, where the filtering vessel covers only a small part of the lower one, the filtered water may be got out of it by dipping; and a cover over this part will keep it clean. 2981 It may likewise be seen that any conveniently shaped vessel may serve for a filter, where sand and charcoal are used : any jar, with a hole in the bottom, or even a large g.irden pot, may serve as a tempo- rary filter. Put a short bit of tube, or a round bit of wood, with a hole through it, in the aperture in the bottom of the pot, fig. 531., so as to project .m inch below ; then put some sand and charcoal into the pot, and on this pour the water to be filtered. The filtered w.ater may bo received in a dish placed beneath. The pot is placed on a stool with a hole. 2982. Water may be filtered to a certain extent, even by so simple a contrivance as hanging a thick wick of cotton or worstpcl thread over the edge of a deep basin, or jar, yfg. !)32. Mm 2