1093 lAP. IX. WASHING BY MACHINES. ■,the window side, to have the benefit of a perfectly good light. The iron cloth, which is a kind of blanket made on purpose, of a proper width and thickness, should be double, and should be firmly and securely pinned down round the table, to prevent its moving. Its length must depend upon the quantity of work to be done and the number of persons em- ployed in ironing. 6533. Tlie mangle is a necessary article among the furniture of the laundry. 6534. The common mangle consists of a large square box loaded with heavy weights, usually stones, which is moved backwards and forwards upon wooden rollers placed on a level strong table ; and round these rollers the various articles to be smoothed are wound. The motion of the box is accomplished by means of straps fixed to each end, and passed over an upper roller carried round by a winch. By this machine the man- gling is done sufficiently well ; but the labour of work- ing it is excessive, not only on account of the strength required to move it, but from the continual reversing of the motion ; for scarcely has it been got into motion by great exertion, than it becomes necessary to turn it back again, and thus power is wasted in constantly having the vis inertia of the heavy 1 box to overcome. Its cheapness (the price being from 5/. to 8/.) causes it to be most i in use among the poorer laundresses. 6535. Various patents have been taken out for improved mangles; one of the best is Baker's 1 mangle, in which the operator keeps always turning the winch the same way, and yet the box moves backwards and forwards as usual. A fly wheel is likewise added to equalise the motion. This mangle usually costs from 12/. to 18/. Another simple mangle consists of two cylinders placed near each other, as in the wringing machine, but with more pressure ; round these the clothes are wound. Such a mangle may be made to take up very little room. Although the operation of the mangle has several advantages, as dispatch and preserving the whiteness of the table linen, yet if not very carefully managed, it may be very injurious to the texture of the cloth submitted to its pressure, particularly in articles where folds are necessary; the creases thus pro- duced are very unseemly, but in the best table cloths these are taken out afterwards by ironing. When there are buttons, or hooks and eyes, in the parts of dress, they are often ■ broken by the mangle, which can scarcely be prevented by any care ; such things had 1 better be ironed, or have the buttons taken off. Linen requires to be longer in the mangle I than calico ; and some things that demand a very high gloss should remain in the mangle : all night. CHAP. IX. "WASHING BY MACHINES. 6536. Many attempts have been made to lessen the labour of washing by the use of machinery; and although it does not appear that any method has yet been invented so simple and effectual as to do away entirely with the manual labour in the ordinary method, yet as machine-washing has succeeded to a certain degree, and been found useful on .some occasions, particularly in manufactories, hospitals, &c., it deserves consideration. One of the advantages of this method is, that hotter water can be employed than in the common way ; and, likewise, that alkaline leys may be used stronger than the hand can bear ; steam may also be combined with it, all of which has the effect of so loosening the dirt, that very little hand labour afterwards is sufficient. 6537. A washing machine rvas constructed by Mr. William Strutt, being a modification of the common washing wheel used by manufacturers, which was used in the Derbyshire In- firmary, and other establishments, and is said to have answered completely, at least for the purposes to which it was applied, a, Jig. 833., is a water-tight cistern in which a hollow cylinder, b, is made to revolve by means of a winch. This cylinder is divided into four parts, internally, by partitions, and a portion of the end of the cylinder is represented as removed to show the inside ; these partitions, as well as the cylinder itself, are perforated by numerous holes ; and there are larger apertures with doors, c, through which the clothes are introduced into the divisions in the cylinder. The linen is well wetted and