314 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. IJOOK \. that the use of real gold is very much diminished. The most elegant patterns are struck in thin copper, sometimes in London, and sent to Birmingham to be gilt, whence they return, so as not to be distinguishable, in a general way, while new, from gold, and, with care, they will last a considerable time ; but when the gilding does wear ofF, the colour cannot be restored as in jewellers' gold ; they must be re-gilt, which is seldom or never worth the while. 1391. Lately a new process has been discovered, by which yildirig may be ■performed by means of elcctricily, with the greatest facility, and by which the workmen will be freed from the unhealthiness attending the process of amalgamation. Electro-gilding and plating is one of the most interesting discoveries of the present time. When a current of electricity is made to pass through a solution of a metallic salt, the salt is decomposed, the metal passing to the negative, and the acid or solvent to the posi- tive pole of the galvanic battery. Bj means of this principle it is found possible to coat a metal with another, by plunging it into a solution of the latter, and employing a gal- vanic apparatus. Thus copper, iron, and several other metals, can be coated with zinc, and likewise with silver and gold, and that in the most perfect manner. The advantages of electro-gilding and plating are so considerable that they bid fair to supersede every method hitherto employed, and may be seen by a visit to the depot of Messrs. Elkington and Barratt, in Regent Street, London. 1392. Gold wire is, in fact, a silver wire gilt. It is made as follows : — A small cylin- drical rod of silver is gilt, and afterwards formed into wire by being drawn successively through a great number of holes in a steel plate, each smaller than the other, until it be- comes no thicker than a hair. This furnishes a remarkable proof of the ductility of gold ; for although the wire is drawn out to an amazing degree of fineness, yet it keeps firmly together, and the whole of the silver remains perfectly covered. When it is required to be spun into cloth, stufi's, laces, &c., this wire is flatted by steel rollers. Six feet of the finest gilt wire weighs only one grain ; and the gold is not quite jL of the whole. A single grain of gold is thus extended to 345 feet. 1393. GoW i/im/rf is this flattened gilt wire wrapped or laid over a thread of yellow silk, the circumvolutions of the wire just touching each other so as to cover the silk completely. Some make a flattened wire gilt on one side only for this purpose. A gilt copper wire is also made for this use. The Chinese, instead of flattened wire, use slips of gilt paper, which their interweave in their stutFs, and twist upon silk threads. Sect. III. SILVERSMITH. 1394. The beauty of silver occasions il to be much employed in furniture, and the same observations which were made with respect to the manufacture of gold apply also to works in this metal. Articles which experience much wear are sometimes, and often most economically, purchased of solid silver. 139.5. An important branch of the business of the general silversmith is the making of silver ladles, spoons, forks, sugar nippers, &c., which forms an independent branch of trade. These articles are mostly manufactured in London by manual labour ; and, as the intrinsic value of the material constitutes a very large portion of the price, they could not be sold at the usual rate of the metal, but in consequence of the skill acquired by men exclusively devoting themselves to this particular branch. In the wholesale price of gold and silver plate, the workmen's wages and the manufacturer's profits are combined m a single item, always entered as " fashion ; " for instance, a dozen of silver tea-spoons, in- tended to sell for 3/. would be invoiced thus, — silver 2/. 6s. 6rf., duty Is. Grf., fashion 1 '2s. Of course, while the value of the material and duty are, in all cases, according to the weight of the article and the current price of silver, the sum charged as fashion will vary exceedingly, according to the quantity and quality of the workmanship. Articles of genuine silver are always stamped as such ; but persons are frequently deceived by seeing a stamp on them, somewhat similar, though not identical with the true one. 1396. The following is a list of the usual articles in silver required to furnish the table. Dishes and covers Table knives and forlis Dessert linives and forl<s Table spoons Dessert spoons Gravy spoons Soup ladies Sauce ladies Salt spoons with gilt bowls Fisli slice Trays and waiters Bread baskets Cake baskets Decanter stands Decanter labels lilquor and bottlo stands Cruet frames Asparagus tongs Cheese scoops Knife rests Nut crackers Grape scissors Tea urns Coffee urns Tea pots Coffee lillerers Sugar basins Cream ewers Sugar tongs Teaspoons Toast racks llutter coolers SnulTcr ti ays Snuffers Candlesticks.