1195 HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. C'UA1\ I. SuBSECT. 2. — Sleep of Childrcji. 7072. " Infants can scarcely sleep too long at a time " for the first four or five months of their existence. During this period it is natural to them to spend their chief time in -leep. A merciful provision this, in the most helpless portion of infancy's existence ; and for these reasons, while an infant's body is in an horizontal position and during sleep, ! he circulation of the blood proceeds more equably and calmly, the respiration is more . asy, the function of digestion more steady and effective, the nutrition resulting from !3 processes more perfect than -srhen the infant is in an upright position. Thus this tendency to repose is a protection against infancy's own feebleness, which might render ■ very casualty that presented itself, a real danger, an obstacle to the healthy operations of us delicate functions. The calm steady sleep of an infant for three or four hours at a rime is the mother's warrant that all is going on well with it. Were it otherwise, its rest woiJd be broken, its crying frequent, and its bodily development and vigour would be evidently retarded and imperfect. It has been said by a German medical writer of the last century. Professor Hufeland, that twenty-four hours of perpetual watchfulness would be sufficient to destroy an infant of two months old. AVhether this notion be well or ill- founded, it conveys to us his conviction of the importance and value of long and undis- turbed sleep at the earliest period of human existence, 7073. For the first three or four months of infancy, any strict regulation as to habits of sleeping can scarcely be observed ; no more than with regard to the meal-time of in- fants. 7074. By the time they attain their third month, some steps may be taken towards the regulation of these infantile habits. For instance, young infants often begin their lives in sleeping more by day than in the night, a very troublesome and inconvenient habit, but which it is difficult to alter. Yet as soon as an infant begins to take notice, his nurse should endeavour to keep him lively and awake as the evenings draw in, by rousing liis attention to every thing around (for at this period his observations will be commencing their operations), and by nursing him actively in her arms. Thus, by slight fatigue and longer wakefulness, she will be preparing him to settle early in the evening. As soon as possible, suckling or feeding a child at night should be discontinued, as before remarked. Sleep at night will now be more salutary to the child than food. Now the inclination for food at night should be repressed, and the habits of sleeping equally encouraged. 7075. From its birth to the age of five or six months an infant should have two sleeps in the day, one in the fore, the other in the afternoon, each of an hour's length if it can be obtained. 7076. At the period of the sixth month, the afternoon sleep may be dispensed with. The morning sleep should be brought into mid-day, and should be continued till the end of the second year of a child's life, and sometimes it may be continued with advantage if for a longer period. 7077. All children should rise early in the summer ; there is no air so refreshing to their young nerves and muscles as the early morning air. The sun has not then given out its full heat, nor drawn upwards arid, humid, or impure exhalations from the earth. It is in its best state for imparting vigour to both young and old. In the winter there are reasons for admitting of later morning hours. Children, especially very young ones, can gain little by rising in severe weather before the fires are lighted, and the air of the rooms into which they are to go is sufficiently warmed to save them the suffering which severe cold always inflicts upon them, and which is expressed by them in crying and fretfulness. Let them remain an hour longer in their warm beds, and they will show their thankful- ness for the boon in their couutenances and tempers. The active natures of children will always incite them to early rising as soon as their limbs are strong enough to carry on any exertion of the body sufficiently stimulating to their feeble circulation. 7078. Laziness in the morning is a bad habit of a later growth, not then to be in- dulged ; yet still some limitation tliere should be in regard to the number of hours given to repose. In duration, a child's night should neither be more nor less than ten hours. When children from habit sleep longer than this, it may be proper to awaken them at one uniform hour, and thus destroy the wrong and establish the better habit. 7079. But in romirKj young children, the gentlest means should be employed ; not violent shaking or loud speaking. It is extremely hazardous to startle or shock children when they are awake, but to rouse them from the unconsciousness of sleep into a state of terror is still more erroneous and dangerous. A boisterous, rude, or harsh nurse may in this way make an impression of horror on a child's mind that no subsequent measures of gentleness and kindness maybe able to efface. Very opposite should be the mode of waking children we would prescribe. They should never, could we prevent it, open their eyes from their easy slumbers on gloomy or angry countenances, A smiling face and gentle voice should be the medium of a child's transition from the peaceful state of sleep to a cheerful happy reality.