PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVI. 1212 around its base is reddened, and this redness extends for a variable space, from a quarter of an inch in breadth to two or more inches ; there is also some little swelling and pain ; the child is often feverish and irritable, refuses the breast, and the bowels are a little deranged. The redness increases in degree, or at least continues in an intense degree till the eleventh day ; it then begins to fade. The vesicle by this time has generally burst, and drying up forms a circular scab, of a brown or mahogany colour, which falls off in about seven or ten days afterwards, and leaves a round scar marked with indentations. The glands in the neck are often swelled, and frequently a number of reddish spots appear over the body ; they are of no consequence, and die away without any treatment It is of great importance to note these consecutive changes. If the vesicle, instead of being round or oval, tinged and depressed in the centre, is angular, pointed, with little or no redness round it, and if its contents are opaque and very yellow, instead of being pearly and transparent, the vaccination has not succeeded perfectly, and no security against an attack of small-pox can be reckoned upon. Or again, if the scab is a light yellow instead of brown, and falls off in a day or two, instead of sticking on for six or eight days, the process has not succeeded. Or if the redness round the vesicle has extended up to the shoulder and neck, or if the vesicle itself become converted into a sore, re-vaccination is necessary. In fact, any deviation from the regular and successive changes should be regarded with suspicion, and as a matter of simple precaution the child must he vaccinated again and again, till a proper and complete vesicle be formed. 7159. Scarlet fever, ov scarlatina. — The degree of danger attending scarlatina, as in the cases of small-pox and measles, is very different in different cases. Sometimes the affection is so mild that it appears unnecessary even to confine the little patient in bed; at another time it is so severe that it is highly dangerous to life. In the symptoms indicating an approaching attack, usually denominated " feverish," the child is first cold and then hot; complains of headache and pains in its back and limbs ; feels sick, and perhaps actually is so. So far the case resembles small-pox, or the com- mencement of common fever: but in addition there are certain peculiar features, particu- larly in the severe form. One of these is sore throat, which may be exceedingly severe, pain about the jaws, difficulty in swallowing, running from the eyes, which look red and inflamed ; and at this time the skin is often exceedingly hot, the face flushed, and there is intense pain in the forehead, or all over the head. We do not intend to assert that every feverish attack, attended by sore throat, is a commencing case of scarlatina; feverish symptoms accompany sore throat alone, as every one knows ; but if with first chillness and then a hot and dry skin, headache, sickness, and loss of appetite, be conjoined sore throat, and if tKere is also running from the eyes, scarlatina should be suspected, and the case treated accordingly. If it be a case of scarlatina, then on the second day after the accession of the febrile symptoms, the rash appears on the face and neck, and gradually extends to the rest of the body, so that on the third day it spreads over the whole frame. It is of a strawberry red colour, and the tint deepens towards evening. Between two portions of the rash one may often remark a part of the skin of its natural colour. On the fifth day after its first appearance the rash gradually fades away, and as it does so the outer layer of skin in most cases peels off, or, in medical language, desquamates. Throughout the course of scarlatina the tongue is red and furred, the papilla; of it are elongated, there is thirst, quickened breathing, increase of fever towards night, and during the night, perhaps even delirium ; the nurse should notice whether there is any cough with the quickened breathing, and, particularly, whether any sharp cutting pain is complained of in the chest or bowels, a cii'cumstance which is often denoted by sudden screams, repeated from time to time, particularly when the child moves in bed; it should be observed, moreover, in what way the child ordinarily lies, whether more on one side than on the other, or whether on the back, with the legs drawn up or extended. The drawn-up limbs indicate pain in the abdomen, the extended, great debility. Treatment. — Supposing scarlatina is apprehended, the administration of an emetic is often of essential service ; ipecacuanha should be given when the child is under four years of age ; when above four years old, either ipecacuanha powder, or a preparation of antimony, commonly called tartar-emetic, may be used; the mode of giving this is the following: one grain, weighed very carefuUj', is dissolved in six ounces of water; and half an ounce, or about a table-spoonful, is given every half hour ; in two doses the child is generally sick, and then the medicine may be continued every two or three hours, in the same doses; or what is perhaps safer, discontinued till the arrival of the medical attend- ant. If the skin be very hot and dry, sponging with cold and slightly tepid water is very useful and agreeable to the child ; cold cloths may be applied to the forehead to lessen the headache, and inhalation of warm watery vapour, by holding the mouth over a jug of boiling water, sometimes relieves the sore throat, if this be severe. Cool air and drinks are necessary, yet chillness of the surface of the body must bo carefully avoided, espcciall} towards the end of the attack. It is, however, during convalescence more than at any