5 Chap. III. ON THE VAKIOUS STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE. B 3 Ihhe middle classes—the house of the tradesman and mechanic—the cottage of the bahourer. No rule can be laid down by which these different classes of dwellings can be u.ceurately separated and defined; yet there is, and ought to be, a general feeling of pro- jsriety as to the character which each should possess. 23. The Legislature, by the " Biiildimj Act," has divided all buildings in London and Westminster, and places within the bills of moi;tality, into several rates or classes, for the ?iiurpose of subjecting them to various regulations, partly for strength, and partly for security ujid the prevention of fires, and in part to improve the ventilation. Many of the regula- ;iaons will be mentioned when we treat of " Construction." CHAP. m. ON THE VARIOUS STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE EMPLOl'ED IN DOJIESTIC EDIFICES IN BRITAIN. IxNTRODUCTiON. — Having resolved on building, there still may be some difficulty in Bixing on the style of architecture. In some countries custom and fashion are so dominant, ihhat one style is universal; and then there is no embarrassment, except as to size, and the stirrangement of particular details. So it was in England a few centuries back; but in the I'oresent day we can scarcely be said to have a prevailing, certainly not a national style. IThe styles of architecture of various countries have been imported, and forms long since pbbsolete have been revived. Thus we have the Grecian, the Grceco-Roman, the Norman, Ihhe Gothic, the so called Elizabethan, &c.; and of these several modifications. Those who h.iave studied antiquities and architecture may have some predilection in favour of one of ihhese styles, or their architect may; and then it may be easily decided which is to be iiidopted. But when this is not the case, it becomes a grave, and not always an easily siolved,question, "in what style shall the new house be built?" Architecture not being a ^^subiect very generally understood, some remarks upon it may be proper before we pro- cceed; sufficient, at least, to direct attention to the chief distinctive points that characterise Ihhe several styles. 24. Architecture, considered as a suhject of taste, demands, like many other subjects, a foaculiar study of its principles. Taste is always the result of actual knowledge and «xperience added to soimd judgment, and is not an intuitive faculty. Some, no doubt, haave minds so organised, as to perceive more readily than others, the relations of various i'ideas and'feelings, and so far appear, to have naturally more taste. But architecture T'-equires a great variety of acquired knowledge to estimate it truly; even an acquaintance with its history is essential towards forming a good architectural critic. In painting and^ Msculpture there is nature to refer to, of which all men are more or less judges; but itf aarchitecture, though its forms may at first have been in a great measure imitative, yet the ('original prototypes enter but in a small degree into the whole subject in the present state oof the art, which is founded more upon utility and customs arising out of our wants. The L'^ienuine beauty and merit of architecture, indeed, consists mostly in fitness, and adapt- aation to a purpose; and when this principle is lost sight of, as is too often the case, nothing rsan be more unmeaning, and even ridiculous, than descriptions of its imaginary or supposed ibharacter and excellences. No art requires more than architecture the curb of philo- S'sophic inquiry into its principles. If permitted to run wild under the influence of certain ffeelings produced by the imagination, it loses its true dignity, and degenerates into lafFectation. 2.5. Notwithstanding, however, that the chief merit of architecture coTisists in its applica- iii.ion to useful purposes, yet it is universally admitted that it is capable, like other branches I'of fine art, of producing pleasurable ideas, and of displaying the progi'ess and refinements "Df society. Indeed, so important is it in this point of view, that the very character of a i. Qation depends in no small degree upon the style of its buildings, both public and private. IBut if the general dill'usion of a taste for ornamental architecture be desirable, the intro- 'ifluction of a sp\irious taste is to be guarded against. Bad taste, like bad habits, is diflicult I'to eradicate ; and some persons become after a time wedded to their opinions or feelings, iwhich they persevere in with an obstinacy often great in proportion to the degree in *which they are erroneous. It is likewise unfortunate for this art, that its errors cannot ■be rectified so easily as some others. An absurd fashion in dress may be changed in a •season; but a house erected in bad taste remains for many years a monument of the want of judgment in the architect, and perhaps in the possessor. Wc have stated that in order to understand the various styles of architecture, some acquaintance with its history is essential. In the following slight sketch wc shall confine ourselves to domestic buildings.