TWO-WHEELED CARRIAGES. 1121 Chap. V. affords shelter from the weather ; and as the owner can drive it, it saves the inconveni- ence and expense attending on a close carriage with servants. A boy, however, may be carried behind, cut oS from communication with the riders, and who may take charge of the vehicle. Its weight requires powerful horses, and to run a cabriolet about town all day, two are required ; and if day after day, three will be necessary. 6666. TTie curricle, fig. 881., differs from other two-wheeled carriages chiefly in being drawn by two horses abreast, instead of one; and it is the only two-wheeled carriage where two horses are employed. It has no shafts, and the body is suspended in a similar manner to the cabriolet. A pole is inserted into the front cross-bar of the carriage frame, and passes between the horses ; from this a metal bar is suspended, resting on the horses' backs (represented in the wood-cut as turned upright) ; this, and the pole sustaining the weight of the carriage and passengers, is the same manner of yoking as that of the classic car. It fatigues the horses less than a four-wheeled carriage, but, as the safety of the vehicle depends entirely upon the strength of the pole, there is great risk in case of the horses becoming restive. It is seldom made of a graceful form, though it might be so by a person of taste : but it has been almost wholly disused of late, perhaps on account of its want of safety. Any one-horse vehicle may be easily converted into a curricle, by substituting a pole for shafts ; but the curricle is usually made expressly with some peculiarities. Fig. 881. is a curricle, in form resembling a Stanhope, with a seat be- hind. 6667. A tandem is not, as some suppose, a particular kind of carriage ; but the term ("probably from the Latin, tandem, at length), is applied only to the manner of placing two horses to draw any two-wheeled carriage in a team, or one before the other. When the roads are very bad and heavy, it is sometimes necessary to add one horse in this way to relieve the other, and pi'omote speed. This method, however, can only be used by those who are expert in driving, unless the fore horse is rode by a postilion. As this may be often useful, it is convenient for every one-horse carriage to have a loop at the point of each shaft, for the leading horse to be fixed to. G6G8. A giy is a one-horse chaise without a head, or an open railed chair, made of a light construction, for quick travelling, sometimes suspended by braces and springs behind, and having in addition some other springs between the body and axle ; and some gigs have only the latter springs. Gigs are made of a great variety of forms well known, and with various accommodations for luggage. The name gig includes the Dennet, Til- bury, and Stanhope, which are gigs of particular constructions and modes of hanging. They have always a space beneatli, for holding a portmanteau or other luggage. 6GG9. 77(c Dennet, Jig. 882., is a light two-wheeled carriage, said to be so named from the Misses Dennet, two celebrated dancers. It is a gig made of various forms, but hung by a combination of three springs, two of them being placed across the axle at right 4 C