306 Book V- ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 1352. Great care is taken to select the sand for the purpose. It is then well washed and calcined, and mixed with very good alkali. The process of blowing and fashioning the various articles is such as we have already noticed in a general manner. If it be required to give an article some form not attainable by the ordinary methods, a mould is provided, into which the glass is placed when blown, and where it receives an im- pression with as much facility as wax. 1353. Of flint glass are made all our decanters, goblets, and the usual drinking glasses; in short, all the glass brouglit to table. This is the only glass employed for optical pur- poses, for making the glasses for telescopes, spectacles, and other instruments ; conse- (juently great endeavours have been made to improve its quality. Of this glass also are made thermometer and other tubes used by the chemist, which are sometimes extremely fusible, so as to be easily bent by means of heat into any form, and to be worked by the blowpipe into various ornaments. 1354. Window glass differs from flint glass in containing no metallic oxide, except a little manganese to destroy the green colour derived from combustible matter or iron in the materials. It is harder than flint glass, and would not be so easily formed into various shapes. There are two kinds of window glass in common use, of which the best is termed crown glass ; the inferior sort is called hroad glass. These differ in their com- position and mode of manufacture. The composition of crown glass some years ago was, fine Lynn sand 6 bushels, kelp 12 bushels. In the excellent crown glass formerly made at Radcliffe Highway, London, Spanish barilla was used as the alkali instead of ■ kelp ; but soda is now generally employed in the manufactories. 1355. To make crown glass, the materials are first subjected to an operation called frilting. For this purpose, they are thoroughly mixed and calcined for about two hours in a degree of heat not equal to that of complete fusion, but sufficient to render them pasty, and they are well stirred for three hours more, that they may be thoroughly incorporated. This occasions the dissipation of what volatile and gaseous matters there may happen to be present. When in this pasty state, the mass is of a greyish-white colour ; and while soft it is cut into brick-shaped pieces, which, after cooling, are piled vip for use. By long keeping, an efflorescence of soda appears on the surface, and the glass-makers consider it as improved by lying by some time. These pieces of frit are put into the melting pots, old glass being piled up with them, and the heat of the furnace is increased so as to bring the whole into fusion. The glass-blower now dips his iron tube into the melting pot; and having gathered as much glass round the end of his iron tube as Fig. 495. .^'^ is sufficient to form a fable of glass, he blows it into a ball in the usual way, and works this into the form of a pear, a. Jig. 495. Having done so, he next, by pressing its end against a flat surface, gives it the form h, which is called bottoming. He now heats it again at the mouth of the furnace hole, and by whirling it round, brings it to the shape c, the bottom being more extended than it was. Another work- man now takes out some melted glass, d. upon the end of another smaller rod, and attaches it while hot and soft to the middle of the flat bottom thus produced. The first workman next touches his glass at the spot where it is attached to his blowing-rod c, with a cold iron which has been dipped in water, which causes the glass to crack at that place, and then the rod is easily detached from the glass, which has now an opening where the fracture took place. Taking now hold of the smaller rod d, the glass-blower presents the glass with the small hole at c to the heat of the furnace, and keeps whirling it round more and more rapidly. This causes the diameter of the bottom to increase by the centrifugal force, as well as the opening which has been made ; and when the whole has assumed the form at <?, the glass flies open in a surprising manner with some noise, (i?A\<n\ flashing, and presents the appearance of a simple disc i. This last part of the process strikes the stranger with astonishment, and he is ready to expect the whole to fly into pieces. However, by turning more slowly in the air, the glass cools gradually in the form of a disc, or circular flat table, until it is solid. The place in the centre of the circle where the rod is attached is the knot often seen in glass panes called a btilVs eye. The glass is now sent to the annealing furnnce, where it is annealed with great care, lest it should warp. From these discs, called tables, the ordinary panes of crown glass arc cut by a diamond, and it is obvious, tliat the larger the disc, the larger pieces they will afford. Notwithstanding the care em- ployed in this process, all the tables of gUiss are not of the same quality, and some will be flatter and freer from blemishes than others, and will therefore enable the glass-cutter to