ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 214 Book V. nearly of the form of those in aiuodern drawing-room. c is a fauteuil carved in the same style, and having a stuffed seat and back of printed cotton, linen, or leather. is a stool wliich folded like our camp stools, and which was much used in their houses, often co vered with cushions, another stool of a ve usual form. 1008. There can he longer any doubt that t/tes fashions were borrowed the Greeks who visit' Egypt, though they wer afterwards much improve by the refined taste of that remarkable people. From the Greeks they reached the Romans, and have de- scended to us after a period of 3000 j'ears. The custom of employing the parts of animals in the ornaments called grotesque is there- fore clearly of Egj'ptian ^'S- origin, if not still more ancient, although the combination of those with foliage and a variety of other objects is the produce of the fine imagination displayed in the Grecian and Roman schools. 1009. 77ie term grotesque is derived from the Italian grotta; some antique subterranean chambers discovered in Rome, having been found to have their walls painted with ornaments in this style. These had not been originally built below the surface of the ground, but had been buried by the gi'adual accumulation of soil from the ruins of buildings. However at variance with truth and nature are the combinations called " grotesques," they have been found to give delight in all ages, the most exquisite taste having been exercised in selecting and bringing together the most beautiful forms of objects, although in the most capricious manner. Caprice, and even a degree of extra- vagance, appears, indeed, essential to this style, which aims partly at exciting surprise by the oddity and whimsicality of the inventions. Still it must be acknowledged, that it was practised by the ancients, and occasionally by the moderns, under the regulation of good taste founded upon a perception of the beauty of form. 1010. Wliatwe know of the furniture vsualbj called antique,^hai is, of the ancient Greeks and Romans, is derived from their sculpture, and from the classic writers; but most of all, from the numerous articles of this kind dug out from Herculaneum and Pompeii, now preserved chiefly in the museum of Portici, and displayed in various magnificent pub- lications. From these sources we learn, that the classical nations bestowed the same care upon their furniture as they did upon all the other objects in which fine art was employed; the same attention to style being shown in every thing that has come down to us. The employment of various beautiful and expensive woods in furniture is not modem. They were much in fashion among the Romans, when luxury was at its height. Tables made of them sometimes fetched an enormous price. Cicero is said to have given a sum equal to 8000Z. for a single table made of cypress; and others are mentioned as equally costly. They were probably ornamented with ivory and carving. Pliny speaks in terms of great commendation of the beauty of the mai)le wood ; and it apjiears that the art of veneering was known in his time. No actual furniture of this date has been preserved, with the exception of wliat is made of metal, and which has been found in subterranean excavations. 1011. The furniture of different periods has always partaken of the general taste and style of decoration whicli then prevailed, and it was in this respect connected with the architecture of each period: thus the general forms, tlie mouldings and ornaments, have been derived, in a great measure, from this source. We nnist expect to find, therefore, that the general decline of the line arU in lluroiie, during the later times of the Roman empire, affected this branch, until at length it sank into the general barbarism. Still, in