DUTIES OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 339 iChap. I. noftlio sheet is Icfl as flat as possible until tlic patient has been lifted over it, or his body so far raised as to lallow of its being passed under him. , , , , v, i u i i i ■ i„ .1 . An invalid may sometimes be lilted from the part of the bod on which he has been lymg to that recently -shaken by two or more persons lifting him between them by the sheet on which he lies, and thus partially - swhi-iiic him to tlic part of the bed prepared for him ; this being done, the sheet which is to be changed may ge- meriUv lie drawn away by very little aid given by the patient in raising his body slightly. The clean upper sheet ■nui-t be lolled up across, that is from each side, and being put under the upper sheet about to be changed, it should be "eiUly unrolled by a person on each side and drawn up towards the top of the bed, where it is turned ■down over the blankets. As soon as this is efTected, the sheet under which it has been thus rolled may be feasilv and quickly drawn away. The rest of the covering may be made smooth, and, according to the feelings .of the inviOid, can be lessened or increased in weight. The other half of the bed is usually left to be shaken uup the next time the invalid is to be removed, or the bed linen changed. 1581. The housemaid's duties being so far performed, their next employment is to prepare ithe bed-rooms for sweeping, by cov&ring the.beds, together with the dressing and-washing t.tables, over with the proper sheets, so as to keep them free from dust Then to hang high up the window and bed curtains, and to turn up the bed valances. The carpets, if .-consisting of small loose pieces, are best taken up to be shaken out of doors ; but if fastened down, it will be r requisite'to sprinkle tea-leaves over them, and to sweep them carefully with a hair or with a Dulch broom <the latter some ladies prefer to be used only once in the week, as too penetrative for daily use ; they imagine ■X\\e hair broom to be sulficientlv strong to clean the surface of the carpet each d.ay, and yet not harsh enough tto wear away the wool, in the same degree as the more frequent use of the whisk or Dutch broom might do). IThe upper housemaid generally makes these preparations, while the servant under her fetches her brooms to .sweep them. Into each bed-room and dressing-room the upper housemaid precedes her assistant, who, alter sweeping one, follows her into the rest successively, leaving the upper housemaid to return to those rooms ;that have been swept, in order'to dust the ledges of doors and windows, together with the furniture, to replace • the curtains and valances, and to remove and fold up the wrappers that have been thrown over the beds and ■ tables. After looking around in each room, to see that nothing belonging to the housemaid's duties have been neglected, the upper housemaid then repairs to the linen press to look out and to air before the fire what may : be required for the next day's use, or to see what articles want mending. 1582. The under housemaids haYUig each done their parts, cleaned and put away pails rand brooms, &c. are required one day in each -week to assist in the laundry, and also, at iproper intervals, to wash and get up their own linen. 1583. The wider housemaids are also usually required to assist the cook in serving the lidinner each day. When many dishes are to be ready at once, any hands in the house nnot otherwise occupied are, on occasions of large dinners especially, called to the aid of t'the cook, but with the sei-ving, and generally the assistance, of the housemaids; they are ilhen expected to be in the still-room to receive, wash, and replace, the china used at dinner : ilthese may be termed their extra duties. 1584. The repairing of the household linen and of the siocA/n^s of the gentlemen of the family is not an extra, ' out an ordirtary, part of the housemaid's work, which usually fills uj) what leisure time they have, until the Deriod in which they must return to the bed-rooms and dressing-rooms in order to replace everything that n.id been used during the dressing time of the members of the family ; and also to turn down the beds, and to :lose the windows, and draw the curtains. Any leisure time between this last branch of their employments uid the hour of going to bod is usually allowed them for their attention to the repairs of their own clothing. In some families the housemaids are allowed two or more of the six evenings of the week for their own work. The daily duties of the housemaid usually end with the closing up of bed-rooms, and with he other preparations for the night. The upper housemaid usually carries hot water both light and morning into each room, and warms beds when it is required. Weekli/ and occasional duties of housemaids.—Housemaids who understand how to arrange heir work will avoid allowing any greater pressure of business in oue week more than in mother, but will be able to arrange and divide the general cleaning so as to make it lot greater at any time than what may be easily got through. In great houses the- amilies are often absent from home, and on such occasions the general cleanings to which ve shall allude should take place. Scouring of bed-rooms should take place once in every fortnight or three weeks according as the weather is iivourable or the reverse to the subsequent drying of the wetted rooms. The window j;7/,5 should be washed iTie day in the week. Brass handles to doors, or brass work of every kind, should be rubbed with a leather. ' \Iahot,Mny work should be well rubbed, and painted wainscotting and walls (not distempered) should have •very spot and mark washed off with a sponge and warm soap and water: finger marks on doors should )e also removed in the same way. Once in aforlnieht paillasses and mattresses should be brushed with a clean hand brush, so as to remove ill liidgmcnts of dust from the sides, and from the tufts of wool where the fastenings down of the mattresses ■I cur. Sheets are usually changed once in a fortnight in beds occupied by the members of a family, once »cry week in those of guests. Every Iresh guest of course expects to find clean sheets on the bed allotted to am in the house of a friend. 1585. In establishments in which one housemaid only is kept, the whole of the business, IS above described, slie has to methodize and effect without much aid from other mem- jtTs of the household. In a family of regular habits, she m.ay probably havo the privilege of going early to bed. It will then bo iiily proper in her, and it will be certainly most convenient to her also, to rise as early as six in summer, nd not later than seven in the winter. With the opening of windows, and with preparing the sittlng-roonis, ^ above described, for the renewed use of the famllv, she will of course begin her day. After hanging up urtains above the carpet, and coverini^ over the sof.is itc, to preserve them from the dust, she must clean 1.1' grates, fenders, ilrc.; and when this is done, sweeping, dusting the rooms, and replacing the furniture right, must follow. Whenever possible, she should also sweep the stairs ; for if deferred till late in the day lie family will be ji.assing ,ind repassing while she Is sweeping them, very inconveniently both to tlicmsclves •■iX to her. Z 2 I