Chap. IV. PRESERVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. 703 4542. It is said lhat lite dealers in eggs immerse them for a moment in oil of vitriol di- luted with water, as a means of preservation. This is not improbable, for the acid would dissolve a little of the calcareous matter of the shell, forming with it a sulphate of lime, which would be deposited and fill up the pores. Another mode of preserving eggs is to plunge them for five minutes in water heated to 140° ; they are then taken out, oiled or rubbed with suet, and paclied in sawdust or char- coal powder; they will keep thus for a year or two. Some boil them for one minute, which preserves them a long time, probably by coagulating the portion of the albumen next to the shell. If boiled hard, they will keep many weeks without other preparation. Eggs are very liable to absorb the flavour of any substance they are kept in contact with, and therefore care should be taken not to pack them in anything that might communicate a flavour ; mahogany shavings will impart to them a peculiarly disagreeable taste; and musty straw will liliewise give them an unpleasant flavour. Sect. XI. PRESERVATION OF MILK. The changes to which milk is liable have been described in Book VII. Chap. IV. It is well known that it will not remain fresh for many hours in warm weather ; the prin-' cipal care must therefore be to keep it in as cool a place as possible ; stone shelves are preferable to wood ; and a room connected with an ice-house is particularly convenient. The milk-men of Paris, to prevent their milk from turning sour, sometimes use a little sub- carbonate of soda, which unites with the acid as it forms ; provided too much soda is not employed, this will have no injurious effect; a little calcined magnesia will answer the same purpose. Milk boiled with sugar will keep some time. 4543. Cream may be preserved for several weeks or even months in the following manner: Dissolve in water an equal weight of white sugar with cream you wish to preserve, using only so much water as just to melt the sugar and make a rich syrup. Boil this, and while hot, add the cream, stirring them well together. When cold, put this into a bottle and cork it well. 4544. M. Appert's method, already described, appears to be a perfect and simple method of preserving milk and cream without sugar, and that even in long voyages. 4545. A melhod of preserving milk for use for any length of time has been invented by M. DirchofT, a Russian chemist. New milk is slowly evaporated over the fire until it is reduced to a solid substance; this is powdered and put into a bottle, which is accurately sealed with wax. When it is required to use it as milk, some of the powder is put in a proper quantity of water, and it has then all the properties as well as the taste of milk. CHAP. IV. PRESERVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. 4546. General remarks. — From the nature of vegetable substances, and chiefly from their not passing so rapidly into the putrefactive state as animal bodies, the mode of pre- sei-ving them is somewhat different, although the general principles are the same. All the me<ms of preservation are put in practice occasionally for fruits and the various parts of vegetables, according to the nature of the species, the climate, the uses to which they are applied, &c. Some are dried, as nuts, raisins, sweet herbs, &c. ; others are preserved by means of sugar, such as many fruits whose delicate juices would be lost by drying; some are preserved by means of vinegar, chiefly used as condiments or pickles; a few also by salting, as French beans; and others are preserved in spirits. We shall treat of these various modes separately. In the summer season, during hot weather, various kinds of vegetables, as peas, kidney beans, cucumbers, &c., can be kept in the ice-cold room attached to the ice-house for several days. Fruits gathered in the moraing, which is the most proper time, may be there kept cool, and with all their freshness and flavour, until required for the dessert in the afternoon. It is to be observed that the cold should not be so great as to freeze the vegetables. Sect. I. USUAL METHODS OF PRESERVING OUR ORDINARY FRUITS, ROOTS, AND VEGETABLES, WITHOUT SUGAR, FOR WINTER'S STORE. 4547. It had long been a desideratum to preserve fruits by some cheap method, yet such a.s would keep them fit for the various culinary purposes, as making tarts and other similar dishes. The expense of preserving them with sugar is a serious objection ; for except the