452 ON FOOD. Book VII. "On Distilled Waters and Oils," Chap. III. Book XX.) Oil of turpentine has been described in Book I. among the materials for painting. Sect. XI. VEGETABLE WAX. 2371. A species of wax is a product of the vegetable kingdom, and may be extracted in considerable quantities from various plants. The varnish which appears upon the sur- face of many leaves consists-of this substance, and it is found also in the pollen of flowers; from which and its analogy to the honeycomb, it has been supposed, that the bees only collect their wax from the vegetable kingdom; but it has been sliown by Opperman (Ann. de Chim. xlix. 240) that animal and vegetable wax differ somewhat in their consti- tuents ; and Huber found that bees made wax when fed upon sugar only. Hunter also pointed out that the substance which the bees procure from the pollen is not wax, but a sub- stance which they gather for the bee-maggots and called bee-bread. Bees' wax therefore is an animal substance secreted from the organs of the bee, as has been mentioned under " Artificial Illumination." 2372. Vegetable wax may be regarded as a fat oil, having become concrete by the absorption of oxygen in a natural state : accordingly we find in different vegetables various degrees between oil and solid wax, which constitute the vegetable butters, as the butter of cacao : when they become more solid, they are called vegetable tallow, as the tallow of croton ; when it is very solid, it takes the name of wax, as the mi/rtle wax of America, extracted from the seeds of Myrica ccrifera, and the pela of the Chinese. The varieties of vegetable wax employed in artificial illumination have been already described in Chap. II. Book IV. Sect. XII. RESIN. 2373. Resins are solid substances of vegetable origin, highly inflammable, giving much soot by combustion ; insoluble in water, but soluble in essential oils and in alcohol. They are supposed to be volatile oil saturated with oxygen, in the same mannCT as wax is thought to be fixed oil with oxygen. They often exude spontaneously from trees, some- times from their artificial wounds, and are generally at first combined with volatile oil, from which they may be separated by distillation. Common resins may furnish a good example of this. Every one has seen a yellow, transparent, hignly viscous substance, called turpentine, occasionally exuding from deal or fir. This substance consists of the essential oil of turpentine holding in solution common resin. Large quantities of this are pro- duced from the Finns sylvestris, or Scotch fir, in the north of Europe, where there are vast forests of it; and by distillation, the common oil of turpentine (improperly called spirit) is drawn off, leaving behind masses of the yellow resin in the solid state. Venice turpentine is procured from the larch {Pinus larix). Tar and pitch are also made from the pine and fir tribe ; but to form tar, the logs of wood are cut down and exposed to a strong heat in tar furnaces, by which the turpentine is partly decomposed and converted into an empyreumatic pitchy oil called tar; and the latter, when inspissated by boiling it, pitch. The'term gum is improperly applied to many substances which are resins, as gum mastic, gam sandarach, gum copal, &c. Gums are soluble in water, while these substances are not, but only in spirits of wine. 2374. Gum resins are substances intermediate between gums and resins. If they be digested in water, the gum dissolves and leaves the resin ; and when they are digested in spirits of wine, the resin dissolves and leaves the gum. If they are digested in a mixture of alcohol and water, great part of both resin and gum is dissolved. Under gum resins are comprehended aloes, assafoetida, gamboge, myrrh, guaiacum, &c. 2375. Balsams are both fluid and solid. They consist of resin, volatile oil, and benzoic acid, without the last of which they are not balsams. The terms Canada balsam and copaiva Zaham are improper and obsolete, these substances not being balsams. Benzoin, tolu, Peruvian balsams, are real balsams. Sect. XIII. CAMPHOR. 2376. Camphor appears to possess some of the properties of a concrete volatile oil, but it is a matter quite distinct from all other bodies. It is solid, white, and transparent ; friable, but not easily pulverised ; has a peculiar penetrating fragrant odour, and a bitterish acrid taste, followed by a sensation of coldness in the palate. It is extremely volatile and