LAMPS. 161 Chap. IV. circular, upon the plan of Argand's. It is made of tin jiipanned, and is much used by- engravers ; though not so elegant as some others, it forms a powerful reading lamp, price ten shillings. 713. The littmford lamp, k.,fiy.'\U., was first made with aflat wick, and, thougli not elegant, is a good reading lamp. It may be used with an Argand burner. 'R,fi(j. 141., is a reading lamp with a reservoir for oil, on the principle of the French circular lamp. 714. The University lamp. A., fig. 142., is much used as a reading lamp: it is on the Argand principle, with a small wick ; but as the reservoir is .not above the light, it does not bum many hours without replenishing. Fig.m. Fig. Ui. 715. B,fig. 142., represents a reading lamp of an uncommon construction. The shade is •Idouble, and serves also as the reservoir for the oil between the two thicknesses ; the lamp :is Argand, and, being supplied from a higher source than the flame, has the advantage of burning long. The inside of the .shade is japanned white ; and the whole outside is gilt. 1 This lamp w ill be peculiarly useful where it is required to have avery strong light on the table. 716. A globe of glass filled with water, with alight placed before it, is used by the 1 French peasants, who make lace ; by this means the light of a single lamp is thrown with I extraordinary vividness along a whole range of these industrious workers. Sect. XIV. LAMPS TO BURN SOLID OILS. 717. Lamps to burn oils that are not sufficiently solid to make into candles, and yet too "thick to burn well in common lamps, as palm oil, tallow, hogs' lard, &c., require a particular contrivance. A piece of metal is made to come over the flame so as to be heated by it, and then this piece communicates with the oil in the reservoir, which is, by the heated metal, kept always in a liquid state. The Hon. E. Cochrane took out a patent for a lamp of this kind. «, fig. 143., is the reservoir into which the material is to be burned ; i is a bent metal rod, one end of which comes over the flame c, and the other passes into the interior of the reservoir among the solid matter, which is thus melted by its heat, and enabled to flow to the wick. Sect. XV. WAX LAMPS. 718. These arc found more convenient for some purposes than wax candles, as the flame being always at the same height, any thing may be boiled or warmed over it with more ea.se. Travellers have found them useful in this way for keeping coffee warm, or water for shaving ; and they have this advantage, that the wax very soon gets solid after the flame goes out, so that the lamp with its wax may be packed away among the luggage without danger ; whereas it is almost impossible to keep an oil lamp from doing some kind of damage. A cup is sufficient tis 113. for holding the wax; and the burner of tin plate may stand in the middle M