THEORY OF BREAD-MAKINa 761 Chap. III. granular substance, or coarse powder, which retains all the original properties for a great length of tune, if packed into a bottle, jar, or casli, .and kept from the air and quite dry. By drying, it is reduced to one-third of its weight. This method has been long practised in Holland and Flanders with perfect success ; and it is extremely useful ; for Huid veast in warm weather soon becomes sour and putrid, and not only loses its pro- perties but imparts a most dis.igreeable flavour to the bread where it is used. 4337. Anot/u-r method by Tlienard is as follows. Dip some twigs in yeast, and dry them in the air. This is commonly practised. ■1338. Another mcMorf. — Work it round with a whisk until it becomes thin ; then spread it with a brushy over a piece of clean wood, and dry it in the air ; when that coat is dry, lay on another, and repeat this till the quantity is an inch or two hi thickness : when it is thoroughly dry, put it into close bottles or canisters ; or it may be"spread and dried on a clean wooden bowl, and a piece cut off as it may be wanted. It should be dis- solved in warm water, when it is to be used for baking or brewing. 4339. In Germany, they put the yeast into bags,.which they surround with wood-ashes, which will absorb all the moisture from the yeast; then they form it into balls, which they keep In a dry place. What is called levurc in France is the yeast and lees of beer put into canvas bags to drain, and some water added to assist iu carrying off the bitter flavour of the hops; it is sent from Flanders to Paris for the use of the bakers. Sect. IX. ON THE BAKEHOUSE ; CONSTRUCTION OF OVENS FOB BAKING BREAD ; AND REMARKS ON THE PROCESS OF BAKING. 4340. In large establishments, where the offices are complete, the bakehouse is a dis- tinct apartment, fitted up in a convenient manner. It should have a good light, should contain the ovens, kneading-trough, chests for flour and other materials, a strong table, presses or cupboards to hold various articles, and should be supplied with water by a pipe. Fig. 619. represents the usual form of the kneading- trough ; and the chests for the flour may be of the i same form, and should be placed at one end of the trough, there being a table at the other; and a is a wooden scoop to scrape the dough from the sides of the trough. 4341. The ovens employed by the bakers, and like- wise in general use by families in the country, where sometimes a considerable quantity of bread is prepared, are built of bricks. 4342. The common brick oven is of a circular or oval plan, and is arched over with good sound bricks, the bottom being laid with flat tiles, closely jointed. The woodcut. Jig. 620., represents a vertical section : a is the cavity of the oven arched over, where the bread is put. The oven is heated by wood, introduced by the door (/, laid upon the floor and kindled. When the bricks are sufficiently hot the fire is withdrawn, and the ashes carefully swept out, when the bread is introduced. While the wood is burning the smoke goes up through the flue c; but when the bread is put in, the inner door, b, is closed, and likewise the outer, d, to keep in the heat. The bread is baked merely by the heat of the brickwork, and when it has remained a sufficient time, the doors are opened, and the baked bread is taken out. 4343. Coal is now very generally employed by bakers in towns for heating the oven instead of wood, and is found to answer perfectlj^ at less expense. Fig. 621. represents the plan and section of the usual construction of a London baker's oven heated ivith coal: a is a plan of the body of the oven, of which s is a section ; b the door ; c the fire- grate and furnace ; d the flue to carry oft' the smoke, after it has circulated round the oven. When the bread is taking out there is a great deal of steam and hot air, and these are carried off' by another short flue, c, over the door, that goes into the flue (/; this steam flue has a damper to shut it when it is not wanted, represented in the section ; and the smoke flue has also a damper, to be shut when the oven is sufficiently heated. A small pan is sometimes put over the fire- place for heating water. In using coal, some manage- ment is requisite to burn away the soot, which at first adheres to the inside of the oven, and blackens it; but when the fire gets clear this soot is burnt away, and the oven is quite clean. V//>/////v//y,,/M///'_M. 1