1066 JEWELLERY. Book XXL the total weight of the diamonds that the article contains. In having their diamonds re-set, great care should be taken that tlie stones may be identified when they are returned. A judicious precaution is, to draw the flower or other device which they intend to have made up, and to assign to each stone its position in the group. 6386. The trade of the diamond cutter is wholly distinct from that of the lapidary, whose business it is to polish the inferior gems. The diamond cutters of England are con- fessedly the best in Europe, but their number is unfortunately so small as to occasion many stones to be sent to Holland, where, from the greater number and more active competition of the artists, the price of workmanship is considerably lower; but the work is said to be inferior. Brilliant-cut diamonds are so much superior to the others, that fre- quently rose-cut have been re-cut into brilliants, although, as already observed, at a great loss. 6387. Diamonds are always equally in fashion, but the mode of setting them varies according to the caprice of taste, or the desire of novelty. Hence the jeweller has per- petual opportunities of exercising or displayijig the inveiftive elegance of his taste in the assortment of hues and the arrangement of groups. He will cluster together the smaller stones so as to enhance the effect of the whole; the larger and more perfect ones wiU generally be set open and displayed to the greatest advantage, while the inferior ones will be assisted by setting them solid in black, or, if need be, with coloured foiL But whatever be the occasion that calls forth his art, whether the construction of a star, a bandeau, a tiara, a plume, a necklace, or aa ear-drop, he should bear in mind that his greatest merit is the concealment of his art. The display of belts and borders of gold can add nothing to the superlative lustre of the diamond. 6388. Diamonds are a species of property little liable to fluctuation, as their value con- tinues nearly uniform; but for diamonds of great magnitude the purchasers are very limited in number.. Sect. IL gems belonging to the species corundum. 6389. Conindxim is the name of an extremely hard mineral substance found chiefly in India, and used there extensively for cutting and polishing the hardest stones. It occurs in grains, and imbedded in small masses in granite, and is of various shades of white, brown, green, red, &c. The common corundum is usually impure; but when this mineral is in its pm'est state, it constitutes some of our most precious gems, as the sapphire and the ruby; and it includes the gems denominated by jewellers the oriental amethyst and the oriental topaz. The basis of all these is the earth alumina ; and the purest state of the species corundum consists of little else. We shall describe its proper varieties, and also the gems as designated by the various names given by jewellers. Sapphire. 6390. Sapphire is the purest or perfect state of corundum, and is the hardest of all earthy minerals, being inferior in this respect only to the diamond; the hardness is therefore one of its distinctive characters. What is considered as the most perfect, or oriental sapphire, is of a clear bright blue colour, with a high degree of translucency ; but it is also pale blue, and sometimes violet blue, or cloudy. Sapphires are also occa- sionally colourless. When they are violet blue, they are usually called by the jewellers oriental amethyst (see " Amethyst") ; when they are yellow, they are termed by the jewellers oriental topaz. The latter are improper terms, since amethj-sts and topazes are quite different stones. Some sapphires show a pale reddish or blueish reflection, and are then termed Girasql sapphires; others, cut en cahochon, exhibit the appearance of a silver}' star of six rays, in a direction perpendicular to the axis of the natural crystal, a variety that is termed asteria. The primary form of the crystals of sapphire is that of a slightly acute rhomboid, which is the same as that of common corundum ; but the crystals usually occur under a secondary form of a six-sided prism variously tenuinated {fig. 814.), and also in rolled masses. The crystals are readil)- clcavablc in "one direction, parallel to one of the planes of the primary rhomboid, showing the cleaved surface very brilliant ; but it is extremely difficult to produce cleavages parallel with the other planes of the rhomboid. The finest Fig. 814. sapphires come from Pegu and Ceylon, where they are found only in the beds of rivers, often in rounded fragments, generally small, and seldom exceeding the size of a hazel nut. Blue sapphires are not unconmron, and those of ten or twenty carats are easily procured, being of the value of from twenty to sixty shillings per carat, according to their beauty. Sapphires are sometimes substituted for diamonds, by exposing them to a strong heat, which destroys their colour, but improves their hardnc!;s and transparency ; and this kind of fraud would be difficult to detect by any one who was not a good judge of these stones.