1128 STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. BOOK XXIV. OF STABLES AND THE MANAGEAIENT OF HORSES. CHAP. I. CONSTRUCTION OF STABLES. 6704. Great improvements have been made lately in the construction of stables, since the nature of the horse has been so much studied by veterinary surgeons, and the imports ance of ventilation and good air has been understood, together -with many particulars for the prevention of diseases of the feet and other parts. Formerly, horses were too often lodged in low, confined, and dark stables, where the air was of the worst description, in consequence of which diseases were engendered, the origin of which was unsuspected. 6705. The situation of the stable should be at some distance from the mansion, and it is best, if possible, to have a southern aspect to shelter them from the cold winds. It is desirable that the surface of the ground should be sloping, for the convenience of drain- age, and that the soil should be dry, a damp situation being particularly injurious to the health of horses. It is essential that proper drains should be executed by the builder. 6706. Stables should be sufficiently large for the number of horses ; but it is not judicious to have many horses in one stable, since the change of temperature occasioned by taking out some of them may render it too cold for those that remain. When there are many horses, it is best to divide the stable into several parts. For valuable horses, it is recom- mended that one stable should not have above six or seven stalls, or perhaps not above four or five. One empty stall is useful, that two may be occasionally thrown into one, in case of a horse being sick. For a pair of carriage horses, the stable should have three stalls. When there are many horses, the stalls are sometimes arranged in a double row, with a passage between to occupy less space ; but a single row or a single-headed stable is best; where it is double-headed, the horses are apt to hurt each other by kicking. 6707. The walls must necessarily be of the materials used in the country ; but brick is the best, being the warmest and driest, if properly laid. The inside is usually plastered, or at least whitewashed. It should be boarded to the height of four or five feet, plaster being apt to break away; and all the stalls should be boarded at the head about three feet above the manger. 6708. The width of the door is usually three feet six inches, but this is too narrow for taking the horses out; four feet is tetter. The height of the door should be at least eight feet. Sometimes the door is usefully divided into two halves, one above the other. The bolts should be of wood, which is better than iron. 6709. The floor of the stable should be laid with materials that are durable, and of a certain degree of toughness, so as to prevent the slipping of the horses feet. Flag-stones are not proper, except they are grooved or furrowed. Common bricks are not hard enough ; but Dutch clinkers, laid edgeways, make an excellent, perhaps the best paving, being narrow and extremely hard. Basalt, called also whinstone, is employed in some parts of the country where it occurs, and is unexceptionable when squared to proper shapes. The asphalte forms a hard and even paving; it has been tried experimentally at the Veterinary College, and found to answer; it has also a very neat appearance. To carry off the urine of the horses, the whole of the paving should be laid with a slope towards a channel or gutter running the whole length of the stable. But some object to the floor of the stall having this slope, as it is supposed to strain the back sinews of the horse, and they prefer making a grating in the centre of the stall (section,^(7. 890.), towards which the floor has a slight inclination, and a short drain from this should com- municate with an underground drain, thus preventing the urine from remaining in the stable. Instead of an iron grating, some use a square piece of stone or oak with holes in it ; this must be made to take up to clean the drain. If the floor of the stall is made to slope, the slant should not be above an inch in a yard. There must be proper traps to the drains to prevent any smells from rising, or cold air or rats ascending. The drain should lead to a manure tank. In stables where there is no contrivance to carry off the water, part is soaked up by the litter, pan sinks into the floor, and the remainder evaporates and mingles with the air, rendering it damp and foul. Where the situation of the stable is a perfect flat, it is proper to raise the floor above the level of the surface, so as to get suffi-