Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 17G " Mr. Professor Faraday has transferred his right to this invention to his hrother, Mr. Robert Faraday, 114. Wardour Street, Soho, wlio has secured it by a patent." It is to be observed that tliis ingenious method is chiefly applicable to gas liglits, where the products of combustion can be carried off by a pipe that goes parallel to that which supplies the gas. To adapt it to suspended oil lamps there must be a tube reaching from the lamp to the ceiling into which the separate tubes from each burner shall unite ; and then a method of discharging the noxious gas from the top of the tube at the ceiling into the open air. The same effect has been attempted by having funnels with tubes over each light, 154.; but this is not found to answer, because so much common atmo- spheric air enters the funnel, together with the burnt air, that the draught is not found sufficient. 777. It is proper to be knoton, that coal gas mixed with common air will explode like gunpowder when a light of any kind is brought into it. Hydrogen by itself, or carburetted hydrogen alone, only burns; but when mixed with a certain proportion of atmospheric air, it explodes when brought into contact with a burning body. The danger is evident of suffering this gas to escape from the Fig. 154. pipes, or any other part, into an apartment. When the quantity that escapes is but small, it may be discovered by its peculiar smell, and there may be j'et no real danger; but when the quantity becomes considerable, it forms with the common air an explosive mixture. Several accidents have happened through the escape of the gas'in this manner, in consequence of whicli persons have lost their lives, or have been severely •wounded; and the premises have been sometimes destroyed by the explosion. Thi§ accident is of the same nature, on a small scale, as what we hear of in coal mines, where from the issuing of the carburetted hydrogen from the coal strata, explosions sometimes destroy thirty or forty people. Whenever it is suspected, therefore, that gas may have escaped into a room, it is imprudent to enter it with a lighted candle, without first ventilating it by some means. Fortunately the smell of the gas gives warning of its escape. Notwithstanding this evident danger, it is surprising how few serious accidents have occurred in the employment of gas for lighting. Still it is proper that every one should be fully aware of the risk that is incurred by neglect. 778. Coal gas has sometimes the effect of turning white oil paint black, owing to the sulphuretted hydrogen contained in the gas. This may be prevented in a great measure by varnishing the paint, which will protect the white lead from the action of the gas. The same effect is not produced upon any part coloured by whiting : it being the oxide of lead alone that is changed in colour. 779. The laying on of the gas pipes in a proper manner is essential in this species of illumination, and demands much experience and skill in this kind of work: hence it is now executed by a particular class of artisans, termed gas fitters. It is not safe to employ pipes of pewter, lead, or tin, as their softness would render them liable to serious acci- dents : copper or iron pipes alone should be used. Before the pipes are fixed, they are proved by a condensing hand pump in water, and likewise after they are fixed by a condensing syringe, and a lighted taper carried along the pipe. 780. The gas for lighting has been prepared in private establishments, but the apparatus for this purpose is expensive ; and the preparation of the gas and purification demands considerable scientific knowledge, without which it would be unwise, and indeed unsafe, to attempt it. We do not consider it necessary, therefore, to describe the apparatus that would be requisite for that purpose, since those who intend to make gas for themselves must apply to more extensive sources of information than can be expected in a work like the present.