APPARATUS FOR DISTILLATION. Chap. 11. 1051 Fig. 807. throw over it a them. It is to be observed, that if substances are actually dissolved in a liquid, no filtration can separate them : thus salt can never be separated from water by any kind of filtration whatever, although some persons erroneously suppose it can. Filtration can only separate wliat is mechanically suspended, and what would mostly fall down of itself by subsidence. 6263. Filters for delicate purposes are made of white unsized paper, and they are folded up, so as to make a cone, as in the woodcut a, or as b,Jiy. 807 ; to support this, the paper, so folded, is put into a funnel, and this funnel into a filtering stand, c. These filters can only serve once. _ / y When large quantities are to be filtered, filtering- Z \ bags are used, consisting of a piece of flannel or linen fastened to a hoop, e, Jig. 808 : what passes the first time is sometimes not fine enough, and requires being re-filtered. AVhere no great nicety is required, it is sufficient to have a frame, as at c, Jig. 809, and to cloth. In filtering thick adhesive substances, such as syrup, it is sometimes necessary to moisten the filter with water. In filtering very small quantities, the paper cone may be simply put into a glass. 6264. Strainers are for the same use as filters, and are only coarse filters. They are made of cloths, of metal, or earthenware pierced with holes, or wire-cloth. Flannel is often used. 6265. A tamis is a worsted cloth, sold at the oil shops, made on pur- Fig. 809. pose for straining sauces ; the best way of using it (says Dr. Kitchener) is for two people to twist it contrary ways; this is a better way of straining sauce than through a sieve, and refines it much more completely. 6266. The operation of sifting is well known. It is employed for separating certain substances from others, or for mixing together powders very completely ; and likewise for procuring particles as nearly as possible of equal sizes, whether coarse or fine. Sieves are made of wire-cloth, hair-cloths, or of open lawn or muslin. Pierced zinc is also used, and in some coimtries where persons are obliged to make their own sieves, parchment strained over a frame and pierced with numerous holes with a hot iron wire answers tolerably well. 6267. Clarification is the process of clearing and fining any fluid from all impurities or feculence. It is performed either by heat, or by the addition of some substance which will unite with and precipitate or raise to the surface the matter which makes the liquor turbid. The substances usually employed are the white of eggs, blood, and isinglass. The two first are generally used for such liquors as are clarified when hot, since the albumen of the egg or of the blood, when beaten up with a portion of the fluid, coagulates by the heat, and, rising to the surface, carries with it the impure matter in the form of a scum. Isinglass dissolves in the liquid, and sometimes rises with the impurities as a scum, but sometimes falls down to the bottom, as in the case of wine. 6208. To express is to separate fluids from solids by mechanical pressure, and is used chiefly for obtaining the juice and oils of vegetables. It is performed by a lever or screw- press. The substances are inclosed in a bag of cloth, introduced between the plates of the press. Ilair-cloth is the best for the hags, as it does not impart any peculiar taste. To some vegetables that are not juicy enough, the addition of a little water is necessary. For unctuous seeds, heated iron plates are sometimes used ; ;n'hen the iron is cold, the oil is styled cold-drawn. 6269. Evaporating, or vaporisation, is the conversion of a liquid into the state of vapour, as water into steam. No body in nature can be destroyed ; and what is commonly called the drying up of water is but its conversion into vapour, which is either dissolved in the atmosphere, or rendered visible as steam. Water, when exposed to the air, is constantly evaporating, but heat accelerates this process ; consequently, when we wish to evaporate water quickly, we employ heat. The larger the surface of the water, the more rapid will be the evaporation, and therefore we put it into large shallow vessels. It is to be observed, that the atmosphere is not a necessary agent in evaporation, hut rather, by its pressure, it tends to prevent it ; for if we take off the pressure of the air by removing it altogether from the evaporating surface hy exhausting, the evaporation will go on much faster; an instance of wliicli was mentioned in an improvement in the manufacture of sugar ; and the same principle is applied in procuring the extract of vegetables. Shallow pans or basins are made for evaporating in, of which those of a kind of porcelain called Wedge- wood's are the best when heat is used. 6270. Dernmposition is the complete separation from each other of the elementary prin- ciples of which compound bodies consist; by decomposition all the properties of such a .substance are destroyed.