Chap. I. WATER. 517 the water of crystallisation : a familiar example of this may be gi ven in the slacking of lime, where the water becomes united to the Lime, and a dry powder, called slacked lime, is the result, and which always contains some water in a state of solidity : this kind of union of a substance with water is called by chemists a hydrate. 2592. That all water which has been exposed to the atmosphere contains a portion of air, which it has absorbed, may be shown by placing this fluid under the receiver of an air- pump and exhausting it ; the air will be seen coming out of the water in numerous bubbles. But this air may also be driven out by boiling; for this purpose the water should be boiled for two hours, and if such boiled water be again exposed it will absorb air as before. About 100 cubical inches of spring water afforded two cubical inches of air, which consisted of ten per cent of carbonic acid, and the rest atmospheric air, that is, oxygen and nitrogen ; but different springs vary considerably in the quantity of air which they . contain. Rain water contains usually 3-5 per cent, of air, and "1 per cent, of carbonic acid gas. :Snow water, when fresh, has no air. 2593. Water absorbs various gases in different proportions. Of some of the acid gases 1 it takes up several times its own volume. 2894. Water is susceptible of compression, though in a very small degree. It was t formerly thought to be absolutely incompressible : and it may be still considered so for ;all practical purposes: but it was shown long ago by Mr. Canton, and more lately !by Mr. Perkins, that it can be compressed in a small degree by applying a very great tforce: it has been calculated that by a pressure equal to 2000 atmospheres, it may be L diminished part of its bulk, though Oersted considers this estimate as somewhat too i great. 2895. Water is the most convenient material to serve as a standard for comparing the '.weights of other substances, and their weight compared with an equal bulk of water is : termed their specif c gravity; therefore, in making tables of the specific gravity of various < substances, water stands as I'OOO. As water expands with heat, and contracts with cold, ! the weight of a cubic foot, or any other measure of water, must be somewhat less in swarm weather than in cold ; and on this account, when it is spoken of as a standard, it is .lalways supposed to be of a certain fixed temperature. By very accurate expei'iments imade lately, in consequence of the act of parliament to regulate weights and measures, it lhas been ascertained that a cubic inch of distiUed water at the temperature of 62°, baro- rmeter 30 inches, weighs 252-458 grains. An imperial pint at the same temperature and sstate of the barometer weighs twenty ounces avoirdupois. Any water heavier than this lanust contain some other substances, and consequently be less pure. Water is 816 times bheavier than atmospheric air. 2896. Water is a very powerful solvent; hence it is very important, both as a natural lagent, and in a great number of processes. Substances are remarkably distinguished as tthey are soluble, or not, in water. Frequent mention of the solubility or insolubility of ssubstances in water will be found throughout this work. 2897. Water absolutely pure is, perhaps, never found in nature. It is nearly so in many idnstances ; but in consequence of its being a powerful solvent, it soon becomes contaminated, lanore or less, by foreign substances. The purest water that can be found in a natural -state is obtained by melting snow that has just fallen in a clean vessel at a distance from buildings, or by coUectmg rain water in very clean vessels at a distance from houses. iBut the chemist finds that, even then, the water is not absolutely pure; it has rroceived, although in a very minute quantity, some adventitious matter in falling through ;ithe atmosphere ; and it contains a portion of air, which may be separated by the air-pump. 'AH the varieties of water which are found on the surface of the earth, or rising in the • form of springs, are, as we might expect, still more impure, containing various substances •which the water has dissolved. It is by art alone that we can obtain the purest water : I'lo procure it we must employ distillation. 28!)S. DLftilled rvatcr is the purest slate in which we know this fluid. When heat is applied, the pure water alone rises in the form of steam, and the salts, and all other sub- -itances, dissolved in it, somethnes in very minute quantity, will not rise with the vapour, ' :)ut remain behind ; and thus distillation enables us to free water from any contamination ' py other matters which it may contain. The process of distillation effects no change whatever in the water itself; it merely ' separates the pure fluid from its impurities. AVater, when distilled, is quite colourless, oeautifully transparent, entirely void of taste and smell, and it is lighter than any other ivater. It is perfectly soft; soap dissolves in it completely, presenting an opaline appear- ance. 2899. Distilled ivater is ahsolutchj unchangeable. Time has no effect upon it, if kept }ver so long. Notwithstanding its purity, however, it is little used except for medical i purposes, or in experiments, partly on account of the trouble of preparing it, and partly oecause the process of distillation deprives it of the air which water always has in a