FOREIGN WINES. CuAr. IV. 613 was required for exportation, for which the company gave the highest price. All emula- tion -was thus effectually extinguished; and the proprietors who possessed vineyards of a superior quality invariably mixed their wines with inferior growths, so as to reduce them to the port standard, and increase the quantity of average wine. " In this way," says Dr. Henderson, " the finer products of the Douro vintages have remained in a great meiisure unknown to us ; and port wine has come to be considered as a single liquor, if we may use the expression, of nearly uniform flavour and strength, varying, it is true, to a certain extent, in quality, but still alw<l^s approaching to a definite standard, and admitting of few degrees of excellence. The manipulations, the admixtures, in one word, the adulterations, to which the best of the wines of the Cima de Douro are sub- jected, have much the same effect as if all the growths of Burgundy were to be mingled in one immense vat, and sent into the world as the only true Burgundian wine. The delicious produce of Romance, Chambertin, and the Clos Vougeot, would disappear, and in their place we should find nothing better than a second-rate Beaume or Ma9on wine." Not only, however, did the Oporto Company deteriorate the quality of their wine, but they also raised the price to an enormous height. In the year 1755 a pipe of red port might have been bought in the wine country, at the first hand, for from 2/. to 3/. per pipe ; hut, on the first setting up of the wine company, they raised the price to 8/. or lOl. per pipe. As the charter granted to the Oporto Company gave the sole privilege of exporting the wines of the Douro, they were secured against all competition from other English mer- chants, notwithstanding the Methuen treaty, and enjoying a complete monopoly of the British market, in consequence of the high duties on French wines, they filled their pockets at our expense ; and at the time, says Fleetwood Williams, when they were shipping wine for England at 40/. a pipe, they have frequently sent the same quality of wine to other countries at 20l. I The late alterations in the duties on wine, by which those on French and Portuguese wines are equalised (aU wines now paying 5s. 6c?. a gallon except Cape), will, no doubt, do much to repair the evils which have been complained of. The Oporto Company has undergone considerable modification, and many of its obnoxious privileges have been abolished. It remains to be seen how far these changes will improve the wines we have been describing. At present, since the injurious effects of brandied wines begins to be understood, intelligent port wine merchants have endeavoured to bring over port wine with as small an admixture of brandy as possible; and, as taste improves, there is no doubt but that the genuine flavour of pure wine will be preferred to the fiery compound that is yet so general. 3451. There are upwards of forty varieties of the vine cultivated in Portugal; but the most common or general sort used for the fabrication of port wines is called there the Uvo Bastardo, or bastard grape. It is of the smallest sort, round, about the size of an English sloe, grows quite close in the cluster, and has a remarkably thick, tough skin. In ; some seasons the skin is thicker than in others, and when it is thickest the wine is deepest I coloured, and most astringent. The juice itself is colourless, and the deep red of the wine ; and its astringency is owing to the husks and stalks of the grapes during fermentation. 3452. At present we are informed that the farmers in the wine countries of the Douro, and also the mer- 1 chnncs, are in the constant habit of mixing their wines, and giving to them those colours and flavours which 1 render them acceptable to the consumers in the foreign markets where they are sold. This they mahe no ' secret of, the flavouring and colouring ingredients being thrown out of doors when the useful part has been I extracted ; nor do they consider this as an abuse, but as a part of the manufacture, in the same manner as ' with us the distiller compounds his spirits for cordials. But most, if not all, the substances so employed are I harmless, and it is only after the wine gets into the hands of fraudulent dealers that it receives noxious ingre- ' dients. Port while in the wine country is often coloured, when it is pale, by vino de tinto, or ev^^ii by elder- ■ berries ; thin l)odied varieties are blended with full and rich-bodied wines, to bring the whole to the market standard, and are strengthened by old Benecarlos wine of Spain, or the red Roussillon of France. When the wine arrives in this country from Oporto, it is of a dark purple or inky colour, has a full, rough body, with an astringent and rather sweet taste, and a strong flavour and odour of brandy. After it has remained some time longer in the wood, the ■ sweetness, roughness, and astringency of the flavour abate ; but it is only after it has been ■ kept also several years in bottle, that the odour of the brandy is completely subdued, and what remains of the genuine aroma of the wine is developed. During the process of 1 melioration, a considerable portion of the extractive and colouring matter is precipitated on the sides of the vessel in the form of crust. In some wines this change occurs much earlier than in others, particularly in those which have been manufactured with w]iite grapes and coloured with elderberries. 34.")3. Several of the other wines of Portugal, although they do not find their way to this country, are described as excellent, plentiful, and as equal, if not superior, to those of the Douro. Amongst these are the growths of Torres Vedras, Mon^aon, and Lunego. I In general these lighter red wines resemble the secondary growths of the Bordelais, and arc inferior to port. A red wine called Colarcs Port, grown near Cintra, is sometimes imported into England. Tolerable red wines arc also occasionally shipped at the ports R r 3 *