Chap. IX. APIARY, AND MANAGEMENT OF BEES. 1183 CHAP. IX. APIABT, Am) MANAGEMENT OF BEES. 7007. The natural history of bees, -with their divisions into queens, drones, and work- ing bees, is so interesting, that it has been treated of in an ample manner in a variety of popular books ; it is not necessary to repeat it here, and we refer the reader for the nature of honey and wax, and the manner of their production by the bee to Book VIII. Chap. XIV. " On Honey," and to Book IV. Chap. II. " On Wax." We propose at pre- sent to confine ourselves to the methods of managing and presei-ving the stock of bees in their hives. In modern times, the importance of bees has suffered a considerable dimi- nution in consequence of the introduction of sugar ; still this part of our economy is cul- tivated with considerable care, and improvements have lately been made in it. 7008. The localiti/and particular situation vfhere it is proposed to keep bees must be considered with reference to their natural food, and whether it is likely to be in sufficient abundance. The spot selected for placing the hives should be well sheltered, and have a southerly aspect, with garden herbs, and flowers, if possible, in the vicinity. Foul smells and loud noises have been thought annoying to bees, and hence it is deemed advisable never to place them in the neighbourhood of forges, pig-sties and the like. This opinion with respect to noises, however is doubtful, since they do not appear to be furnished with the organs of hearing. 7009. The advancement of agriculture, and the consequent decrease of wild flowers, with the inclosure of wastes and commons have been unfavourable to the keeping of bees ; and in an arable country, with good farming, few stocks can be supported. Near large tracts of heath land, where the flowers of the heather furnish an ample supply of food, bees generally thrive. In Germany and Switzerland, it is not uncommon to transport bee- hives into these places during the summer season ; this change of situation is efiected in some parts of France by means of boats on the rivers. Bees are supposed to range a mile or two in quest of food. 7010. To establish an apiary, it is necessary to procure, by purchase or otherwise, a hive of bees, or as many as are required to commence with. Common straw hives with bees will be sufficient. The hives should be selected by a skilful person in a cool evening, ■ or very early in the morning: the spring is the best season : he will be able to form a ■ tolerably good idea whether or not a hive is full of bees and combs by tapping on it. The hives may be easily moved by placing a square board under each, and placing it upon a cloth which is to be drawn up all round it; then carrying it upon a man's head. When brought home, the hives may be placed on stands, or in a bee-house; this may be a wooden closet raised on feet, and having doors opening in the front and sides; it may be ; four feet wide, and six feet high, with three shelves, each large enough to hold two hives with a slanting roof to turn the wet. The holes for the entrance of the bees should be 3 ■ inches long, and a quarter of an inch high, with a little shelf before each, for the bees to 1 light upon. 7011. Bees require a warm temperature : and it is said that neither the larvaj nor chry- ' salis will live in cold of 60°. They appear to have the faculty of perceiving the approach 1 of cold weather and rain, and even while busy abroad at their work, they will suddenly 1 leave off, and hurry home in crowds, till the doors of their habitations can scarcely admit I them fast enough ; and they are seldom caught in a shower, unless at a great distance from 1 the hive. Cold is a great enemy to them ; and in this climate, their hives must be kept ■ well sheltered and warm ; to defend themselves against it in a hard winter, they crowd I together in the middle of the hive, and buzz about, exciting a warmth that may be per- I ceptable by laying the hand upon the glass window of the hive. Sometimes, in very cold ■ winters they form clusters, hanging on each other, and continue for some time in a torpid state. When they appear to be dead with cold, they may be frequently revived by laying them on a cloth at a distance from the fire, or by applying artificial heat to them in some other mode. Mild winters, as well as severe cold, are often injurious ; sunshine in winter tempts them to go abroad, and exposes them to a change of weather. 7012. Bee-hives have been made of yarious forms : the com- mon form answers in general, is well known, and easiest pro- cured. Hinsh recommends that represented in fig. 908. Instead of having three or four legs, as is usually the case, a single one is preferable, as being a better protection from vermin and insects : the hive may be chained down and locked. It should he placed about two feet from the ground, when on a separate stand. Tlie Fig. 908. fittest material is straw, wliich affords the best defence against the