1054 STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. Book XX. 6291. The following table exhibits the most prominent properties of most of the essential or volatile oils : — Rosemary Fennel Sassafras Tansy Carraway Penny royal Anisc-seed Thyme Lavender Wormwood Camomile Hops Parsley Peppermint Savin Coriander Rairron Turpentine Juniper Cloves Lemon Orange Neroli Cinnamon Nutmegs Bergaraot Mace Roses Pepper | none Colour. Specific Gravity. none none none brown none green blue groen gieen green none none green none yellow yellow yellow yellow none yellow •934 •997 1-094 •940 •94G •978 •742 •Gil 1034 •888 •800 L035 •948 ConJiistency at C0°. thin liquid becomes solid at 50° oily becomes solid at 50'^ crystallised tinn liquid like butter thin liquid fluid as water very fluid oily, very fluid thin liquid ditto ditto oily and liquid like butter not oily: solid at 23" oily like the flower like butter like the plant like the root very strong very strong and jiungent like the plant very strong like camphor like the plant like the flower like the pl.mt disagreeable strong strong smell like cloves like the Iruit ditto ditto ■ like cinnamon like nutmegs like oranges very acrid Procured from Ros marinus officinalis, seeds of Anethum foeniculum. root of Laurus S.issafras. leaves of Tanacetum vulgare. seeds of the Carum carri. flowers of the Mentha pugillum. seeds of Pimpinella anisum. leaves ,ind flowers of Thymus serpillum. flowers of Lavendula spica. leaves of Artemisia absynthium. flowers of Arthemus nobilis. flowers of Humerus lupulus. leaves of Apium Petroselinum. leaves of Mentha piperitis, seeds of Coriandrum sativum, pistils of Crocus sativus. resin of Pinus sylvestris. seeds of Junipefis communis, capsules of Eugenia caryophillata. rind of the fruit of Citriis raedica. rind of the fruit of Citrus aurantium. flowers of ditto. Bark of the Lanrus cinn.imomium. seeds of Myristica moschata. rind of the'fruit of Citrus aurantium. seeds of Myristica moschata. petals of Rosa antifolia. seeds of Piper nigrum. fi202. Essential oils are not obtained from odoriferous substances in quantities proportioned to their degree of odour. Some which, if we were to reason from analogy, should seem very well fitted for this process, yield • extremely little oil, and others none at all. Roses and camomile flowers, whose strong and lasting smell promise abundance, are found to contain but a small quantity of oil: the violet and the jessamine flower, which perfume the air with their odour, lose their smell upon the gentlest coction, and do not afford any oil on being distilled, unless immense quantities are subjected to the operation at once; while savin, whose dis- agreeable scent e.\tend6 to no great distance, gives out the largest proportion of volatile oil of almost any vegetable known. 6J93. As examples of the quantities of essential oils yielded by difierent pl.ants, the following m.iy be men- tioned : — Goz. of the oil of juniper may be procured from 48 lbs. of the berries. 1 lb. 9 oz. of" the oil of lavender may be obtained from 80 lbs. of lavender flowers. 1 oz. of oil of rosemary may be had from 24 lbs. of the plant. 6294. Obtaining the essential oils themselves from the several productions is seldom at- tempted in domestic practice, as they may be purchased ready prepared from a respectable chemist or apothecary : when they are procured by distillation, the processes are the same as those which we shall describe for obtaining the distilled waters, with the exception that less water is employed, and of course a much larger quantity of the leaves, flowers, or other parts of the plants. Many of them are made in those warm climates where the plants grow in greater abundance than with us. The chief manufacture of the essential oils or essences which we have is in the south of France ; as those of rose, neroli, lavender, thyme, lemon thyme, and rosemary. Some of them, as the oil of lavender and fennel, are made of the best quality in this country: the English oil of lavender is three times as dear, and very much superior to the French. 629.5. We cannot separate the volatile oils from the aromatic plants by distilling them alone, because the proportion of these oils is so small, that they could not be collected ; and be- sides, it would be impossible to regulate the heat so as to be sufficient, and yet not burn the materials, and destroy the product. Hence it is necessary to distil them with a pro- portion of water. During the process of distillation, the volatile oil rises with the watery vapour, and condenses with it in the receiver, where it is partlj- dissolved by the water. The greater part, however, of the oil again separates from the water, after it has remained at rest for some hours in a cool place, and either floats on the surface, or sinks to the bottom, according as it is lighter or heavier than its bulk of water. The essential oil thus procured can be completely detached from the water by an instrument called a Separator^. The fluids to be separated are introduced through the orifice a, fiq. 811., which is then closed with a stopper. One neck is then shut with the finger, and the phial is to be inclined to the other side. As soon as the fluids have separated by means of their specific gravity, the finger is to be removed, and the whole of the heavier fluid will run through the lower neck before any of the lighter escapes. Another method of effecting the same thing