Chap. VIII. 1023 BUTTONS. the pattern are white by means of liquid chlorine, which is made by adding sulphuric acid to the solution of chloride of lime. An immense number of these are manufactured by Messrs. Monteith and Co., Glasgow, who have a patent for the method of producing the spots, which is done with extraordinary expedition. Twelve or fourteen webs of dyed calico are stretched over each other, and a leaden plate, perforated with holes of the form of the spots, ip fixed upon them by a powerful press; the discharging liquor is then admitted into these holes and forced through all the thicknesses of calico. After the chlorine has performed its oflSce, water is passed through to wash it qmte away; and then the cloth is bleached to produce a clear white in the spots. In this process only about ten minutes are employed, in which time, by a sufficient number of perforated plates, 224 handkerchiefs are discharged; and 19,200 yards are converted into bandanas in the space of ten hours by the labour of four workmen. The Balasare handkerchiefs, made about Preston and Chorley, and PuUicats, made at Glasgow, are other imitations of Indian manufactures. Besides these, cotton handlierchiefs of an infinitely various variety of English patterns are daily making their appearance. . . j , 6050. White pocket handkerchiefs are made of lawn or cambric. French cambric is considered the best; some of them have borders and even fringes. Scotch eambric is not made of flax, but cotton. In this country these are usually worn plain ; but in some countries, particularly in the East, they are elegantly em- broidered, and are carried much in the hand by ladies. CHAP. vm. BUTTONS. 60.51. Diversified as have been the forms and sizes of this useful article, they yet scarcely exceed the variety of the materials of which buttons have been made. Almost every substance capable of being used in their manufacture has been tried, under the influence of fashion or ingenuity. Amongst them are, gold, silver, plated copper, pinch- beck, steel, mother-of-pearl, ivory, bone, horn, tortoise-shell, jet, cannel coal, paper, leather, glass, &c.; besides these, there are buttons which consist of a wooden or bone mould covered with silk, mohair cloth, or some similar substance. It will be only pos- sible for us to point out the most remarkable varieties. 6052. It would appear that the most ancient buttons were not circular, as at present, but simply short cylinders sewed on by the middle. The remains of these may be traced in the Hungarian coats, sometimes imitated amongst us in ornamental dresses. 6053. Buttons may be divided into two general classes ; those with shanks or loops of metal, and those without. Buttons with shanks are chiefly made of metal. The blanks of the buttons are either cast or stamped out of a sheet of metal; in the former, the shanks are inserted while the metal is in fusion ; in the second, they are soldered on. Metal buttons are turned round in a lathe, and the ornaments are executed in a variety of ways, either stamped, or cut with various tools, among which are some of great ingenuity. 6054. Gilt buttons are made of a mixture of copper with a small portion of zinc, or brass mixed with copper, common brass being unfit for gilding. They are cut out of sheets of this metal, and the shanks nre affixed by solder. The gilding is performed by means of an amalgam of quicksilver and gold. An amalgjmi is made by putting leaf or grain gold in quicksilver, dissolving this in nitric acid, and applying the solution to the surface of the buttons, on which a deposition takes place of the metallic portion of the ingredients. The quicksilver being driven off by heat, the gold remains on the buttons, which derive their line lustre from being afterw.ards burnished. Flie quantity of gold on gilt buttons is fixed by .ict of parliament to be five grains of gold to a gross of buttons, or ten grains of gold to the surface of a circle of twelve inches diameter. The better sort undergo the process twice, and are called double gilt. 60r>5. Brass buttons are simply stamped out of sheet brass, and ornaments are struck by a die. G056. Plated buttons are made out of copper plated with silver, and are chiefly used in liveries. The figures or devices upon them arc formed by stamping with dies. 605". The commonest kind ofyiietal buttons are those which are stamped in pewter, and chiefly used in the trimming of military j,ickcts ; they .ire of course very soft; but not being intended to be.ir any stress, but merely to exhibit the number of the regiment, or some such other figure, and to be stitched close to the cloth, they answer well enough. 6055. tf'/iite metal buttons are cast of a composition consisting of brass with a portion of tin, so as to form a kind of bell metal ; they afterwards are turned in a lathe, then whitened by boiling with grain tin and crude tart.ir, .md polished by a bufl", and crocus martis. The shanks arc let into the metal when casting. GO.50. Cup Imttons arc made of two pieces, either plated or gilt; one is flat like a common button with a 8h.ink ; the other is a hemisphere fixed on, which has been punched by a fly press. 6060. tn mother-qf-pearl buttons, where the shanks cannot bo soldered, tfiey are inserted in a very inge- nious manner. The hole is drilled in the mother-of-pearl and undercut so as to be larger at the bottom than at the top ; and the shank being driven in by a steady stroke, the elasticity of the mother-of-pearl allows it to go in, but closes afterwards, to prevent its coming out. 6061. Buttons without shanks are of two kinds. The first are simply disks of turned horn or bono, with four holes drilled through the face for the purpose of sewing them on the dress, and the surface is made con- cave, to preserve the thread by which they are sewed. The horn buttons .are made of cow-hoofs softened in boiling w.iter; .md they acquire their form by being afterw.ards pressed into heated moulds. The second kind .ire circular disks m.idc of horn, bone, or wood, which are afterwards covered with cloth or tliro.id of some kind ; and, though certainly gilt and other metal buttons have a rich appearance, yet taste has lately demanded that they should give way to those covered with some material.