509 FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. Chap. IX. integrifolla, with the leaves entire, whicli grows chiefly on the continent of Asia; and A. iiicisn, with the leaves deeply notched,-which grows chiefly in the islands, and is the proper bread fruit (Jiy. 52a). The first is called Jaca, and the fruit grows to an enormous size, often to more than 30 lbs. It is eaten, but it is not very palatable. The last, the proper bread fruit tree of the South Sea, was found originally in the islands of the Indian Ocean and Southern Pacific by Danipier in 1688 : it grows to the size of a mid- dling oak, and the fruit is about eight or nine inches long, of a yellowish-green colour, and is covered with hexagonal warts. It grows in clusters of five or six. The pulp is white, and is partly farinaceous and partly fibrous : when quite ripe it becomes yellow and juicy. 2830. Il is dressed in vuriovs ways. When roasted or baked they scrape off the second rind, and the interior is eaten as bread ; it has no seed nor stone. Its taste is agreeably ; sweet, between that of wheat bread and roasted chesnuts. It is extremely nutritive, but : must be eaten new, for in twenty-four hours it becomes harsh and unpalatable. When ' boiled it much resembles potatoes ; some think it more like the Jerusalem artichoke, and I others the chesnut. It is also beaten up with cocoa-nut and milk. The fruit is gathered 1 before it is fully ripe, for when mature it quickly runs into decay. The bread fruit I continues in season above eight months in the year ; and so productive is it that two or I three trees are sufficient for the yearly support of one person: during the remaining 1 months they make of it a sourish paste, which they keep for store. 2831. At the expense of this government, and through the well-known exertions of Captain . Bliyh, the bread fruit has been brought to the West Indies in consequence of the great 1 expectations that had been foniied of its utility ; but though it is easily cultivated it does I not appear to excel the banana. From experiments made in the West Indies it appears (that it could be converted into flour, from which cakes were made extremely well t flavoured. It is scarcely necessary to say that in this country it can only be raised in the 1 hothouse. StTBSECT. 7. — The Durion {Durio Zibithinus, Linn.). 28.'?2. This is an Asiatic fruit whicti grows upon a lofty tree; and though of an agreeable taste lias an tunplcasant strong odour. Some of the fruits are as large as a man's head, and are covered with a Ivind of 1 pointed sciiles. It must be eaten fresh, as it putrefies in twenty-four hours. The part w hich is eaten is a 1 thick pulpy juice of the consistence of thick cream, which has the flavour of a delicate anim.al substance mixed vwith a cool vegetable acid. This singular flavour cannot be imitated by any process of cookery : and the (Substance is extremely nutritious. It is a costly fruit even in its native country, .-md is highly prized. SuBSECT. 8. — Guava {Psidium). 2S3:i. There are various species of the guava. some of which .are natives of Asia, some of Ameiica. .and some . common to both. The best of these is the while guava {I'sidium iii/iilernm), which is iileiitiful iii the West 1 Indies. The fruit is ratlier bigger than a hen's egg, veliow, smooth, and of a peculiar smell. The pulp is of la very agreeable taste, sweet, aromatic, .md Hesh-coloured. It is used at the dessert, and preserved Guava j.|clly is considered as one of the finest conserves which we have from the West Indies. SuBSECT. 9.— Tlie Mamma {Mammea Americana"). 2a')4. This is a n.ative of the West Indies, where the tree grows to the height of seventy feet. The fruit is ryellow, .and somewhat resembling a russet apple in size and shape. 'I'he pulp is yellow, .and is verv fracrant •and delicious, like the finest apricot. . .i . i a StiBSECT. 10.— The Lilchi (Dimocarpiis Lilchi). W.^JS. This is a Chinese fruit, round, and .about two inches and a half in diameter. It is covered with a 'tough liMthery coat, within which is the pulp, colourless, semi-transparent, slightlv sweet, and of a very agreeable taste. It is often brousht to this country in a dried sl.ue. in which, tlioiigh the pulp be iniieh lidiminished m sue, it retains a consider.able portion of its original flavour. It is not unlikely but it may bbecome cummuu in this country as a hothouse fruit. StTBSECT. 11. — Jujube (Zizi/phus vulgari.% Z. Jujuba). 2S3fi. This is a favourite dessert fruit in It.aly and Spain, either fresli, nr dried as a sweetmeat: and a plea- 'sant pectoral lozenge is made of it by the French apothecaries. The fruit is to tie seen in alnindam e in the ' markets of Const.aiitinople and the southern part.s of ICurope : the Turks plant tlie trees round their coilee- lioiises, th.atthey m.ay enjoy both their shade and their fruit. It is found iu greatest perlection in China «wherc there are upwards of sixty species. ' SuBSECT. 12. —The Juvia {Bertholletia excelsa). 2M7. This fruit is described by Humboldt as that which incloses the triangular grains imported under the name of BraxU nuls. 1 he fruit itself is as large as a child's head, being covered by a shell, and crowiiiL' npnn a tree fifty or sixtv feet high ; the force of their fall is so great as to be I'atal to one who might be struck with them ; hence the Indians never enter the noods whore they grow, In the season of fall, without covering