788 Book X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. methods we obtain smoked and hung meat, dried fish, fruits, and vegetables ; hy the latter, we have fruits and other vegetable substances preserved in sugar, pickles, salted meat, and vegetables. But each of these modes has its peculiar inconveniences. Drying takes away the odour, changes the taste of the juices, and hardens the fibrous or pulpy matter. Sugar, again, from the strength of its own flavour, in a great measure conceals or destroys other flavours, particularly where we wish to preserve the agreeable acidity of certain fruits ; it is also very expensive. Salt communicates an unpleasant acerbity to substances, hardens the animal fibre, and renders it difficult of digestion. Vinegar can seldom be made use of, except in certain articles for seasoning." 4509. 7u describe /he principles of M.ApperCs method, vfe must observe, that animal substances are more liable to decompose, or spoil, (to use the language of the kitchen,) than vegetables, and hence are more difficult to preserve. Many of the latter can be kept quite fresh for a great length of time in their raw state, merely by sealing them in a close vessel, and filling the interstices with some loose substances that will exclude nearly all the air. But meat cannot be preserved raw in the same manner. If raw meat should be treated in this way, its complete change would be much retarded, but it would not be pre- served long in a condition fit for food. When meat has been boiled, there is a remarkable difference ; the albumen has been coagulated, and as this is the principle where the putrefaction first commences, cooked meat keeps longer than raw. But it does not by this alone keep any great length of time, except the air be thorouyhh/ excluded. Air is essential to the process of putrefaction, and if animal or vegetable substances could be kept wholly out of contact with it, no change could take place. But it is not sufiicient that the air is kept from the external part of these substances ; that in the interior pai-ts is sufficient to begin the fermentation. Boiling drives out this internal air, and after that, if the substances be placed in a vessel entirely emptied of air, their preservation will be secured. M. Appert's method, accordingly, consists in applying heat to the substances to be preserved so as to coagulate their fermentable juices, and likewise in placing them in such a situation that they shall be deprived of the contact of air. Fabroni and Thenard had previously observed that heat destro3'ed the fermenting principle in grape juice and fruits, and showed that they might thus be preserved for a long time. It is quite essential that the vessels into which the meat is put should be plunged for some time into boiling water, in order completely to drive out the air: for Gay Lussac ascertained that though putrefaction cannot take place if air be thoroughly excludecj, yet the smallest quantity of oxygen gas present is sufficient to produce a commencement of putrefaction, and after the process has commenced, it goes on, whether air be present, or not. 4510. M. Appert says with justice of his method, " that the great advantage of it con- sists principally in its application to the service of the navy. It will supply fresh and wholesome provisions for vessels on long voyages with a saving of more than fiftj" per cent. Mariners will, in case of illness, be furnished with broth, various and cooling beverages, vegetables, and fruits: in a word, they will be able to partake of a number of alimentary and medicinal substances, which will alone be sufficient to prevent or cure some of the diseases contracted at sea, more especially the worst of them all, the scurvy." 4511. The preserved substances first presented by M. Appert to the Council of Adminislrntion qf France, were *' Fot-au-feu," a well-known standing French dish of boiled meat, fowls, &c., consomme, milk, whey, green peas, small Windsor beans, cherries, apricots, currant juice, and raspberries. Each of these articles was contained in an earthen vessel hermetically sealed, the cork being fastened with iron wire, and pitched. They had been preserved above eight months. On examination, the p6t-au-fcn was found to consist of a tolerably rich jelly with a piece of beef and two pieces of fowl in the middle. When the whole was warmed with care, the soup was found good, and the meat was very tender, and of an agreeable flavour. The con- somme was excellent, and quite fresh, though prepared fifteen months. The milk was found to be of a yel- lowish colour resembling that of beestings; thicker, as well as sweeter and more savoury than ordinary milk, a superiority it derived from the concentration it had undergone. Milk prepared in tli'is way was con- sidered nearly equal to the cream sold in Paris ; and it did not appear to sulTcr from uncorking and being put into another bottle. The whey liad all the transparency of whey recently prepared, .and, though tr.insfcrred into another bottle, did not begin to lose its transparency till the end of a fortnight. Tlie green peas and beans were as fresh as if just gathered, .and the currant and raspberry juice had preserved their aromatic flavour. The reports of French naval otlicers completely confirmed the expectations which M. Appert h,ad formed respecting the success of this method of preserving provisions. 4512. Soon after this publication, a jmtcnt was taken out in this countri/, for M. Appert's discovery, by Messrs. Donkin and Co., and they succeeded equally in accomplishing the same object. Their method, which is nearly the same as that of M. Appert, is the fol- lowing : — The meat to be preserved is first parboiled or somewhat more, and freed from the bones. It is then put, together with vegetables, if required, into tin cases or canisters, which are filled quite up with a rich gravy. A tin cover, with a small aperture. Is then carefully fixed on by solder; and, while the vessel is nerfcclly full, it Is placed In boiling water, and undergoes the remainder of the cooking. The small hole In the cover is completely closed up while the whole Is yet hot. The canister with its Ingredients Is now allowed to cool. In C()nse(iueuce of wliich these contr.ict, .and the sides of the vessel are slightly forced inwards by the pressure of the atmosphere, and become a little concave. The vessel being thus hermetically scaled, and all access of air prevented, it may he sent into anv cllm.ate, without fear of putrefaction, .and the most delicate food of one country be thus eaten In it* origiu.il perfection In a distant region, many months, or even years, after its preparation. , . , In this manner may all kinds of alimentary substances be preserved: beef, mutton, ve.il, and poultry ; fish