Book III. 110 ON VENTILATION. this vast city, the streets -were narrow, the houses projecting in the upper stories, and tlie spaces between them crowded with large signs hung across, and checking the free cir- culation of air, essential to the health of the inhabitants. To the miasma constantly engendered, and rising up from the open drains and neglected sewers, were added those caused by the fermentation of heaps of rubbish and garbage ejected from every house, and which the indolent inhabitants could scarcely be compelled to remove. Nature has provided means for carrying oS impure air, and replacing it with such as is suited to animal respiration ; but here its intentions were defeated, both by the construction of the buildings, and the habits of the people. Nor were the interior arrangements better calculated to promote health. The windows were small, the rooms low, the floors made of clay strewed over with straw or rushes, among which lay rejected fragments of food and dirt of all kinds. Ventilation was totally disregarded, and the result was a perpetual recurrence of fevers, from which the English, at that time, were scarcely ever free. In this condition of things, infectious diseases spread with a dreadful rapidity, and the history of the plague by Defoe exhibits the condition of the people in frightful colours. It is almost needless to advert to the improvements that have probably banished pestilence in its aggra- vated form, and rendered our metropolis one of the most healthy on the globe. The prin- cipal of these are, undoubtedly, well-constructed sewers, and an abundant supply of water; streets wide, well paved, and kept, if not as clean as they might be, yet far more so than formerly ; large sashes to open, wooden floors, with a frequent renewal of the papering and painting of the interior, and open chimney fire-places. It is not intended here to attribute the existence of pestilence, cholera, and other violent diseases to want of cleanliness alone; they may originate in natural causes, though unknown to us, but it apppears from evidence that they have produced the most fatal ravages where indolent, filthy, and disorderly habits prevailed. Though the improved state of knowledge in this country has produced the most happy effects in averting the most desolating and wide-spreading evils of disease, still we should recollect that the same causes, though acting upon a smaller scale, will always tend to produce more or less derangement of health. 493. The great importance of ventilation must be perceived, when it is considered that, although respiration may proceed, and life exist for a time, in cases where the atmospheric air is vitiated to a considerable degree, yet as pure air is essential to the full enjoyment of health, every degree of vitiation of it must be prejudicial, although this effect may not be perceived immediately. It has been well observed that, "in the great majority of situations to which man is exposed in social life, it is the continued or reiterated applica- tion of less powerful causes which gradually, and often imperceptibly, unless to the vigi- lant eye, effects the change, and ruins the constitution before danger is dreamt of ; and, hence, the great mass of human ailments is of slow growth, and slow progress." 494. Ventilation as the means of preventing disease, is not only necessary in the habita- tions of the poorer classes, as far as their health alone is concerned, but the middle and higher ranks of the community have an almost equal interest in securing good ventilation ■wherever the habitations of human beings are to be found, more particularly where they are crowded together in towns and villages ; since disease, once generated by the neglect of ventilation and cleanliness, spreads its frightful ravages far beyond the boundaries of filth and wretchedness, and falls, as a punishment, upon those whose duty it was to have been the guardians of the labouring poor. The late visitation of the cholera has perhaps done more to place this subject in its true light than volumes of writing could have effected; and there cannot be a doubt but that the white-washing, cleaning, and ventilat- ing of the houses of the poor, during the prevalence of the epidemic, did much to check its progress. CHAP. II. PRACTICE OV VENTILATION. 495. Having now investigated briefly the principal causes which deteriorate the air, or render it unhealthy and unfit for the purposes of respiration, it is necessary that we should turn our attention to the means of preventing this evil, or of correcting it when it has occurred. Prevention being always better than cure, the importance of understanding the causes which injure the salubrity of the air cannot be overrated, since this alone can enable us to avoid them. To remove the evil when it has already taken place is more difficult, but still partly within our mean^. 490. It is an error to suppose that air can become unwholesome merch/ by being stagnant. Pure air, like pure water, never changes of itself, however long it may be kept; but it may have impurities mingled witli it, arising from various sources, without these being