BREWING. Chap. III. to be longer kept; and they possess, likewise, an aromatic flavour, which they communi- cate to the liquor, and cover its sweetness. The wort, after having been impregnated with the hops, is now thrown into large shallow vessels, called coolers, where it is cooled to about 50° as quickly as possible, before it has time to get sour ; it is then submitted to the process of fermentation, after having been mixed with some yeast, which, by the vinous fermentation, produces alcohol or spirit in sufficient quantity to give the required strength to the liquor; at the same time, a portion of undecomposed saccharine matter, and of the muci- lage, still remain, and assist in giving the peculiar taste which is essential to constitute good malt liquor. But if the liquor was allowed to remain in the fermenting vat until the ferment- ation was quite finished, there would be great danger of its passing immediately into the acetous stage ; therefore, as soon as it has fermented sufficiently, the new made beer is transferred into barrels or casks with bung holes, in which the fermentation is finished in a slower manner. During this slow fermentation, which is technically termed cleansing, the remainder of the yeast works out through the bung holes, and some coagulated lees settle to the bottom, leaving the beer clear. If it be not then quite transparent, it is rendered so by the operation of fining; and sometimes it is racked off into other casks, or bottled. 3142. This sketch of brewing will prepare the reader for understanding the enlarged descriptions of the several processes which follow. Sect. II. MATERIALS FOR BREWING. SUBSECT. 1. — Malt. 3143. Although in domestic brewing it might be thought sufficient to point out the qualities of the various kinds of malt as made by the maltster, since the preparation of it from barley is seldom attempted by private individuals on a small scale, yet, in accord- ance with the plan we have proposed to follow through this work, of teaching the principles as well as the practice of the various domestic arts, we feel it necessary to give a short account of the manner of preparing the malt, or, as it is called, mailing. 3144. The important pari which saccharine matter acts in the vinous fermentation, and consequently in producing the spirituous part of beer, has been already explained under the article " Fermentation." 3145. Sugar of some kind occurs very generally in vegetables, though not always in suffi- cient quantity to be recognised by the taste; and a small quantity is even discovered by the chemist in the farinaceous seeds, or corn. But, as we have shown, starch, called also fecula, is another very important principle, existing ready formed in vegetables. It is found in very large quantity in the farina or flour of various kinds of grain, particularly wheat, and in certain roots, as potatoes, arrow root, &c. It is a curious and interesting fact that starch is often converted into sugar by nature, and that this natural process can be imitated by art. We shall presently see that this change is efl:"ected during the time that the grains of com begin to germinate or grow. The sugar of starch is, however, not so sweet as that of cane-sugar, though equally capable of affording alcohol by fermenta- tion. 3146. We may perceive, from these facts, that sweetness alone is not the only test of a substance being fit for fermentation ; one that is not sweet, but which contains starch, can likewise be fermented. This discovery, which was made not many years since, has thrown great light upon some circumstances in brewing that otherwise would prove ex- tremely puzzling, particularly that of the ready fermentation of unmalted barley. The fact is, that raw barley does contain a portion of saccharine matter, as is evident from its analysis ; the use of malting is only to increase this quantity by a conversion of its starch into sugar, which actually takes place, as also during the process of brewing previous to the vinous fennentation. 3147. Barley is the grain almost always employed in Britain for the purpose of the maltster, being superior to any other corn we possess; but every kind of grain, with scarcely any exception, might be used upon occasion by the brewer. 3148. The preparation of malt is chiefly to procure a cheap sort of sugar; but the other principles in the barley also assist in giving their peculiar qualities to the beverages called mall liquors. The mode of increasing the saccharine matter in barley is by taking advantage of the process which nature always performs when seeds begiu to germinate or grow; but to render this intelligible, we must describe the nature of germination itself. 3149. Seeds, when planted in the ground, will not germinate except there be moisture and a certain degree of temperature, which must always be above the freezing point, and below 100°; likewise, they must not be entirely excluded from air. The seeds of vegetables consist of two essential parts : the germ, that part endowed with the principle of vitality,