ON SUGAR, :jhap. XIII. 725 find leaves the solution of a certain degree of strength and consistence. In making v.yrups, refined sugar should be employed ; and if coarse sugar be used, the syrup should ioe clarified by heating to a froth the white of eggs with a small portion of water, and lidding to it a solution of sugar and water before boiling. The albumen coagulates as the yyrup^boils, and, involving the impurities which the sugar contained, rises to the surface iin the form of a scum, which must be carefully removed. K too much sugar be used, ■nr if the syrup be too long boiled, the sugar soon crystallises ; and if it be in too sniall proportion, the syrup quickly ferments, and becomes acescent. In case of its appearing ilisposed to ferment, a small quantity of sulphate of potash will check the fermentation. IThe most certain test of the proper consistence of a syrup is its specific gravity, which, rvhen cold, should be 1-385. But however well prepared in general, syrups are apt to I'erment when kept in a temperature above 60° ; and therefore the London College ilirects that " they should be preserved in a place the temperature of which never ex- ceeds 55°." The syrup of the London Pharmacopoeia is obtained by dissolving two and a half pounds i')f refined sugar in a pint of water, by means of a water-bath, setting it aside for twenty- obur hours, talking off the scum, and pouring off the clear part. Sugar simply dissolved in water, and sugar boiled inwater to a syrup, form compoxmds ?ery different, as is well known to those who wish to give it to bees as a winter store. In hhe first case the heat of the hive will dry up the water, and leave the sugar in crystals, rvhich the bees cannot act upon ; but by boiling, the water is made to enter into a more .ntunate union with the sugar, by which it is prevented from flying ofif, and the consis- . ency of honey is retained, by which food bees may be preserved during the whole 1 /rinter without any honey. 4141. Vegetable syrups are frequently mentioned ; these consist of the juices of various blants boiled up with such a quantity of sugar or honey as will preserve them from ppoiling by fermentation. The various kinds of these syrups are denominated from the rruits or flowers from which they are made, as syrup of oranges, of mulberries, of dolets, &c. They were formerly much employed in a medicinal way, but at present ;.hey are regarded as chiefly useful in being made the vehicles of more efficacious me- dicines. See " Confectionery," Book XV. ■ 4142. A method qf bleaching syrups made with raw sugar is used in Paris, and is found so useful that many confectioners ejnploy it instead of refined sugar. Cliarcoal is known to have tile effect of destroying the colour of vegetable juices, and rendering them per- fectly transparent. Vegetable charcoal had been used for this purpose in the sugar refineries ; but it is found that animal charcoal is much more effective. The mode of using the former has been to boil the syrup with it, and then to strain the whole through a woollen cloth ; but when animal charcoal is boiled with syrup, it imparts to it a disagreeable flavour. The way of using it is, there- fore, varied ; and a filter has been contrived which answers the desired purpose. A A, Jig. 606., is a wooden funnel lined with tinned copper. At a little distance above the bottom is a movable bottom. A, supported upon feet, and pierced full of holes, with a piece of cloth laid over it; upon this is put the animal char- coal, c, reduced to grains like gunpowder ; another movable cover, also perfo- rated, rf, is put over the charcoal ; and upon this the syrup to be deprived of colour, e, is put. The syrup passes through the charcoal and the two perforated divisions or covers without in the least deranging the charcoal, and flows into the space between the two bottoms, whence it is drawn off by a spigot,/. By filtering twice, a solution of raw sugar is completely bleached, and a syrup equal to that from refined sugar is produced, and the flavour peculiar to the raw sugar entirely re- moved. The syrups ought to be clarified and perfectly liquid before being put into the filter ; and the cloths laid over the wooden divisions should be moistened before they are laid down, otherwise the syrup will find some difficulty in Fig. 606. Making its way through dry cloth. Sect. IV. ON OUR SUPPLIES OF SUGAR. 4143. Our principal supply of sugar is from our colonies in the West Indies, where it is •vaised chiefly by negroe, now free, labour, but.it is interesting to inquire in what other >sarts of the world sugar is cultivated to a great extent. Besides what is made in the 'West Indian islands, we obtain sugar in a less quantity from Surinam, Brazil, British ;(ndia, Java, and the islands of Mauritius and Bourbon. In the numerous rich valleys of India, where the soil is productive and the climate congenial, it might be •aiscd to any extent, sufficient to supply all Europe. But, hitherto, in Asia the process of sugar-making has •■)een carried on in a very imperfect manner, to which .alone must be attributed the inferiority of East India 'Ugar. The sugar-cane grows to great perfection In China, but the Chinese only know the method of forming ■aw sugar, aiui sugar-candy by tlLssolvingaud crystallising this. However, the great consumption of the higher classes throughout the Kast is furnished by China, which annually exports, chiefly to India, Arabia, and Persia, above three thousand tons. In Cocliin-China they also make a great quantity of sugar. The annual mportation of sugar at present into Britain is seen in the following table: — liFrom British West India Islands . Island of Mauritius British India Singapore, being the produce of Slam, Cochin-China, and China . Java .... Cwts. 3,913,209 4HS,326 213,294 38,ri35 6,900 3 A 3 From Philippines Foreign West Indies Cwts. . 3.5,7S0 . 223,256 4,915,010