48 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. Book I. SuBSECT. 4.—Doors. 175. If the doors are not made of wood well seasoned, and executed in a workman-like manner, they will shrink after the painting is finished, and look -very ill. The locks, -which are of various kinds, and other fastenings, are parts of furniture that demand great attention. To enable doors to rise over the carpets, and yet be tight at the bottom when the door is shut, rising hinges are sometimes used, and are extremely serviceable, cold draughts just over the carpets being very unpleasant and injurious, though frequently unattended to. There are various other inventions for this purpose. In laying the flooring boards it is usually the practice to make the floor rise gradually about a quarter of an inch under the door. The doors of apartments are always framed in two, four, or six pannels, which are either plain and square, or ornamented with mouldings. Those of ordinary rooms are of deal; but in the best apartments of large houses they are frequently of mahogany. SuBSECT. 5. — Windows. 176. Upon the judicious construction of the windows muchof the comfort of ahouse depends: bad sashes are a continual nuisance, letting in draughts of cold air, rattling, or requiring frequent repair. The sashes of the present day, hung with weights and pulleys, are a great improvement on the ancient casements with hinges : when well made, and of good materials, they answer very well; they should always be double hung, that is, top and bottom sash moveable, on account of ventilation. Wainscot is the best kind of wood for sashes, being the most durable, and least liable to shrink. Mahogany is sometimes employed in the best houses. Sash fastenings should never be omitted ; for the purpose of binding the sashes together to keep out the cold, as well as for security. Cheap sashes, ill made, are far from being economical. French sashes that come down to the floor, and open with hinges, are pleasant in drawingrooms, or apartments that conamunicate directly with a lawn or garden, but they are apt to be cold in winter. Double sashes, or two sashes a little way apart, little used here, but universal in Russia, are extremely warm, and have the good quality of excluding noise, properties which render them very suitable for certain situations. It is to be observed that more light comes from the upper than from the lower part of a window, and therefore, where much light is required, the sashes should reach as high as possible: in low apartments the light is often obstructed by useless drapery of window curtains. 177. Bp the Building Act, all door and window frames are to be set in newels or recesses, at least 4 inches from the front of the building, as a security against the spreading of fires. No bow-window or other projection shall be built next to any public street, so as to extend beyond the general line of the fronts of the houses in the said street, except such projections as are necessary for copings, cornices, facias, door and window dressings, or for open porticoes, steps or iron pallisades; and also, except shop windows, which are allowed in streets 30 feet wide or more, to project ten inches from the line of the building, and five inches in streets of less width. 178. When the sashes have been completely finished by the joiner, and painted by the painter, they are filled in with glass by the glazier, who secures the panes by means of putty made of whiting and linseed oil. 179. Window shutters are framed in the manner of doors, and are made to fold in several widths by means of hinges to go back into a recess at the sides of the windows. When the walls are too thin to receive the necessary width of the front shutters, the architrave is brought forward in the room, or the shutters are made to slide up and down. 180. For the manufacture of glass, see the article " Glass" in Book V. "Furniture." 181. There are several kinds of glass in common use for windows—plate glass, crown glass, and common glass. Plate glass is by far the best, though most expensive, not at all distorting the objects viewed through it, which is more or less the case with all other kinds of glass. It is often introduced into the windows of the best kind: as also in those of shop fronts. Crown glass is always used in the best windows in ordinary houses. There were formerly ' two kinds of glass made in London, RatcliflFe crown, and Lambeth crown, but from the greater price of fuel in the metropolis, the glass-houses are now removed to Newcastle and Bristol. Window glass being all blown in circular plates, not exceeding 5 feet in diameter these are cut by the glazier's diamond into panes of various sizes, from the part surrounding the knot in the centre of the plate. Panes may be procured 33 inches by 25. Glaziers describe panes of glass as firsts, seconds, and thirds. The frsts are crown glass, the second.i and thirds arc common and inferior glass: the thirds being of a greenish tint, and used only in very ordinary Situations. Panes of glass are charged more per foot as they increase in size, because there is more waste when large panes are cut from the cir- cular tables, than where the panes are small.