r:HAP. III. THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. 76.5 4366. Bread made of rye and ivheut. Equal quantities of wheat and rye-flour, made iiind baked in the usual way, make very good and cheap bread. 4367. Bread of wheat and turnips. Mix equal quantities of wheat-flour, and turnips joiled, mashed, and having the -water well squeezed out. Make the dough in the usual vay, and bake it a considerable time. This kind of bread was made in England in a time of ■.carcity, in 1629, and again in 1693. It has a peculiar taste, by no means disagreeable ; ;t is as light and white as wheaten bread, and should be kept twelve hours before it is ut, when the smell and taste of the turnip will scarcely be perceptible. — Phil. Trans. iZJarrots and parsnips may be treated in a similar manner with turnips. Also, mixtures iiuay be made of wheat with oats, buckwheat, or any other farinaceous substance ; all these naiay be fermented, as wheat-flour contains the principles necessary for fermentation. 4368. Rice bread. In this country rice is rarely made into bread l>y itself, though it may be, by the follow- ng process : — Let a sufficient quantity of rice-flour be put into the kneading trough ; at the same time, boil I due proportion of water in a cauldron, and throw in a small quantity of ground rice, which must be boiled nitil the decoction forms a thick viscous substance, which is pouretl upon the flour, and the mass is kneaded «vith a mixture of salt and yeast. The dough is then covered with a warm cloth, and left to rise. As the ermentation proceeds, the dough, which at first was fii m, becomes almost fluid, and seems totally incapable ■>f being moulded by the hand : to prevent the inconvenience and loss which would ensue from its spreading, 11 tin box Is prepared, with a handle long enough to reach the end of the oven ; a little water is poured into it, and it is then filled with dough, over which are laid some cabbage leaves, and a covering of paper. The box • s deposited for a short time in the heated oven, and then suddenly reversed, so that the dough retains -■ts place in the mould, and is converted into a loaf of the same form. The bread is of a fine yellow colour, as f it had eggs in it, and is very agreeable to the taste ; but it must be eaten while fresh, as it loses much of its ilavour on becoming stale. This bread is also useful to put into soups. 4369. lii'cet when made into bread, is more Jreqnently mixed with some other grain. Tlie following are modes n which it has been so employed with advantage : — 1. The Americans make bread with it in this manner. The rice is thoroughly cleansed by pouring water jjipon it and stirring it, the water being changed occasionally until all impurities are washed away. The water >s then drawn oft", and the rice, while yet damp, is bruised in a mortar ; it is then dried and passed through a kiair sieve. The flour thus obtained is generally kneaded with a small quantity of Indian-corn meal, and is joiled until it has acquired a thickish consi.stence ; sometimes boiled potatoes are added. The mass is fer- nented either with leaven or yeast, and the dough is then baked iu pans. The bread thus prepared is re- juted to be light, wholesome, and agreeable to the palate. 2. Let a quarter of a pound of rice be boiled until it be quite soft; leave it to drain on the back part of a tieve, and when cool, mix with it three quarters of a pound of wheat-flour, a spoonful of yeast, and two ounces ')f salt. Let it stand for three hours to ferment, then knead it very thoroughly, and roll it in as much wheateu lour as will give to the exterior sufficient consistency to allow of its being conveniently deposited in the oven. vVfter baking an hour and a quarter it will form a loaf of good white bread, weighing one pound fourteen )unces. 3. To one peck of wheat-flour add half a peck of rice flour; let them be mixed and kncided with salt, ■'east, and warm water, in the usual manner. Divide the mass, when fermented and duly risen, into eight oaves, and bake them. 4. Boil a peck of rice until it becomes soft; let it stand all night in a pan, and it will be found greatly dis- ended. Let a peck of potatoes be boiled, skinned, and mashed to a pulp. Knead them .while hot with the .•ice and a peck of wheat-flour ; then add a suHicient quantity of yeast and salt, and leave the dough to fer- nent: the mass may be divided into loaves, and baked in the usual manner. 4370. Bread made of rice, potatoes, and wheat-flour. Boil some rice till it is soft, and let it remain some :ime afterwards to swell. Boil an equ.al quantity of potatoes, peel and mash them, and, while hot, knead ihem up into dough with the rice, and the same quantity of wheat-flour as of rice ; add yeast and salt j'let the lough rise, and bake in the usual way. 4371. Although we have already described rice as one of the materials of which bread is occasionally made, let, as this is not the mode in which that substance is usually employed as food, its great importance demands J i few further remarks, which are chiefly extracted from the " Household Almanac and Year Book " for 1837. ' Rice constitutes the principal aliment of millions in India, who are supported by it in health and vigour • and loiany probably live and die without ever having tasted more substantial food. It is, perhaps, o'ne of the l:heapest aliments which can be obtained in this country ; and though some persons imagine that it is not mfficicntly nutritive, that opinion, upon trial, is found to be erroneous. Some objection is raised to its use on icount of its insipidity, but this is easily corrected by the addition of a little spice, milk, suet, or sug.ar. With .iiilk and sugar it makes excellent puddings. It can be employed as thickening in soups, or mfiy be stewed ivith meat, bacon, or any other seasoning. In experiments made at the Foundling Hospital, in 17!)5, it was ihown that rice can go much further than flour for the same price, when made into puddings. Several cir- .-umsUnces, however, require to be attended to in cooking it. It is essential that it should be done till it is .quite soft, yet, if brought to table by itself, that not a drop of water be seen with it. 4372. Bread made of oatmeal and vhcnt. The following has been recommended as a good and economi- :^al bread : — Add a peck of oatmeal to the same quantity of seconds flour, and half a peck of potatoes skinned and washed ; knead it up into a dough with yeast, salt, and warm milk ; make it up into loaves and bake as usual. Oatmeal and rice may also be made together into bread. ' 4373. Maize or Indian-corn bread. In North America maize is the principal corn, and bread made from it is extensively eaten in the United States, as well .as in many parts of Europe. Meal from maize is made into luifermented cakes in the same manner as those from barley ; but the late Mr. William Cubbctt who had considerable experience of its qu.alities, directs thata mixture should be made of one-third maize am'ltwo- thirils wheat or rye. " Set your sponge," he says, " with the wheat flour only. As soon ,as you have done that, put the w.ater (warm water in cold weather, and cold in hot weather) to the corn-flour, .and mix the flour up with the water, and there let It be for the present. When the whe.at sponge has risen, and has fallen .again, lake the wetted-up corn-flour and work it with the wheat sponge, and with the dry wheat-flour that li.as been I round the sponge. Let the whole remain ferineutuig together for about half an hour, and then make up the loaves, and put them in the oven." 4374. Buck-wheat is capalile of ({ffbrding human food very wholesome and nutritions. In many parts of ' the Continent it is so employed, as in France and Tuscany^ mixed with liarley and made into bread ; in Ger- many it H u.sed in puddings. This gr.ain is covered with a hard black triangular husk, of which it is deprived by an oper.ation previous to grinding. This is cfli-cted by high-drying the gr.ain, either bv the sun's rays or bv the heat of a kiln, and alterw.ards by running it slightly through the mill-stones. The luisks are then blown aw,ay by a winnowing machine, and the grain is ground in the same manner as wheat. To convert it into bread, a gallon of water is boiled, and, by degrees, a peck of buck-wheat flour i.« added, constantly stirrinc :it to prevent lumps from forming, till the whole is formed into the consisti'iice of a thick hatter. Some salt IS added, and the mass is boiled lor .an hour and a lialf. A quantity of this, suincieiit for a cake, is then poured Into an iron kettle hanging over the fire, In which it is baked, taking care to turn it I'requently to nrevpiit burning. An excellent mixed bread is made in Ungland by the .addition of a peck of wheat-flour to the ahiiv,. mentioned quantity of buck-wheat. Alter the latter has been made into batter, jind cooled down to blood lu-it