522 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. which answei's immediately and on any scale whatever, rendering the water soft as far as that depends upon freeing it from the carbonate. Add to the water some quicklime formed into the consistence of cream with water. Diffuse this through the M-atcr to be purified: the quicklime attracts the excess of carbonic acid in the water, and becomes common carbonate of lime, which is insoluble, whilst at the same time the bi-carbonate previously held in solution, being deprived of its excess of carbonic acid, also becomes common insoluble carbonate, and both fall to the bottom, leaving the water pure. It is to be observed, however, that though this process will effectually render the water soft, if the hardness be owing to carbonate of lime, and that such water will no longer curdle soap, and may be used for washing, yet there will be danger of more lime being used than is necessary for the purpose, and the super-abundance will remain in solution in the water, which is then, in some degree, lime-water: indeed, it will scarcely be possible to propor- tion the lime so as to avoid this. Quicklime, which is caustic, has been employed with this view by laundresses, and the consequence has been that, using too much, the linen has been corroded and iiijured. Nor would it be advisable to employ this method with water used as a constant beverage; but, for many purposes, the method may be valuable. But though these methods will free the water from carbonate of lime, the sulphate of lime, another source of hardness, must be treated by a different process. The sulphuric acid, not being volatile, cannot be driven off by boiling; but the sulphate of lime must be decomposed by adding some alkali for which the acid of the sulphate has a stronger attraction than for the lime. This may be either soda or potash. The sulphuric acid will seize the alkali and let go the lime; at the same time the sulphuric acid, being now satui-ated with the added alkali, can no longer act upon that of the soap. This is one of the reasons why soda is found so useful in washing in some of the waters round London besides its immediate action as a detergent. In these waters there is generally more or less sulphate of lime, which causes a degree of hardness; and this hardness is destroyed by the soda. This remedy is sufScient if the water be employed only for washing; but, as the addi- tion of soda to sulphate of lime would convert it into sulphate of soda or Glauber's salt, it would be a matter for consideration with the physician how far a minute portion of this newly-formed salt would be injurious to the constitution in using the water as a beverage. It is very generally stated that hard water is prejudicial if taken long as a beverage. It is apt to cause a sensation of weight, particularly in that weak condition of the stomach which exists in dyspepsia. The water of Paris contains some sulphate of lime, and occa- sions uncomfortable feelings to strangers who drink it for the first time. 2917. Sulphate and carbonate of Ume being properly insipid substances, they do not impair the taste of the water nor injure its transparency, while the agreeable coolness of water brought up from a considerable depth in the earth renders it frequently very agree- able : but, though a very minute quantity of these salts may not be prejudicial, there is little doubt that waters very hard are unwholesome if used for a length of time. It has been said that they give rise to calculous complaints; but it is not an easy matter to prove this, since, " with the exception of lime, the substances found in hard waters do not enter into the composition of calculi; their operation, therefore, must be rather of a predis- posing nature, and is probably exerted upon the organs of digestion, which are well known to be intimately connected with the kidneys." Late observations, indeed, have given anotlier view of tliis subject: the formation of calculi appears to be owing to an undue secretion of lithic acid occasioned by indigestion, gener.iUy indicated by acidity in the stomacli; and it is now said that hard water, cont.aining an impregnation of carbonate of lime, so far from increasing the disease, acts as a remedy by neutralising the acid in the stomach, and is in fact a useful bere- ra-'e to this class of invalids. In this respect there may be essential difference between an impregnation of suTphate and of carbonate of lime; and it is only the latter which can be advant.igeous, acting in the same manner as chalk. -i- , . it Dr Paris observes, that " animals are more sensible of the impurities of water than man. Horses, by an instinctive sagacity, always prefer soft water; and when, by necessity or inattention, tlicy arc confined to the use of tliat wliicli is' hard, their coats become rough and ill-conditioned, and they are frequently attacked with the gripes. Pigeons arc also known to refuse hard, after they have been accustomed to soft, water. Hard water has also a tendency to produce disease in the spleen of certain animals, especially slieep." 2918. The proportion of salts varies considerably in waters that are considered as hard, and we have stated that no natural water is absolutely free from them. Biit it is not necessary for the ordinary purposes of life that water shall be as pure as when it has been distilled: when water is transparent, colourless, entirely tasteless, and without smell, and will answer for the purpose of washing, it may be considered as pure and good water; but the salts should not be in such quantity as to stimulate the bowels to increased action, nor should the water refuse to unite with soap. 2919. Brackish spring water contains common salt, muriate of magnesia, and muriate of lime all of which exist in sea water; and the springs must owe these either to some communication with the sea, or to the proximity of some bed of rock salt through which the springs pass. Brine springs contain so much salt that it is procured from them by boiling and evaporation ; several of these occur in Cheshire and Worcestershire. 2920 mat arc called petrifying springs are intimately connected with this subject, and