ON HONEY AND MANNA. 729 CuAP. XV. CHAP. XV. ON HONEY AND MANNA. 4157. Honey is produced by several species of bees; but most abundantly by the garden or hive bee (Apis mellijica), which is found -wild in many parts of the world, and always con- gregating in swarms. In their wild state, they frequently inhabit the hollow trunks of tree's, in which they build their combs, particularly in Livonia and Poland; but with us this species may be said to be domesticated, all of them being under the protection of man. 4158. Bees collect, by means of their tongue, or rather their proboscis or trunk, the sweet juice contained in the nectaries or honey-cups of flowers. Of this saccharine juice a part passes into its stomach, and constitutes its food; the rest goes into what is called the honey-bag, which is an enlargement of the gullet, and when full of honey is about the size of a pea. When the honey-bag is filled, the insect returns to the hive and disgorges its contents into one of the hexagonal cells of wax which it had previously prepared for its reception, and which forms what is called the honey-comb. The cells when filled are sealed up with a thin covering of wax, and the honey is intended for the support of the community during the winter. 4159. It has been questioned ivhether honey is not merely the sweet nectarial fltdd so col- lected; but it is most probable that it has been altered in some degree while in the body of the animal, because when bees are fed upon sugar alone they still produce honey. 4160. The nature of the honey is very much influenced by the species of flowers from which it is obtained, and the vegetation which supplies the bees with food. The honey afforded by bees that have access to wild thyme, lavender, rosemary, and flowers belonging to the natural order Labiatse, abounding in aromatic and essential oils, is of the first quality; and it is said to be vei^ bad where the bees live near to fields of buckwheat. The dif- ference in the food occasions the honey of each country to have a peculiar character. The honey of Hybla on the east coast of Sicily, and that of Hymettus, a mountain near Athens, were reckoned by the ancients the finest in the world ; that of Crete was also celebrated; and excellent honey is still produced in some of the islands of Greece, where the bees inhabit hollow trees and rocks. Palestine is described as formerly flowing with milk and honey. The best now known is said to be from the peak of Teneriffe. That of Minorca is also very fine ; it is very white, and when new has the odour of rosemary, derived from the rosemary and other wild shrubs that grow in that island; the honey of Murcia, Valencia, and Catalonia is of the same kind. A softer, less crystalline, pale coloured and nearly flavourless honey is collected in Switzerland, and is known in our shops by the name of Chamouni honey. The finest honey of France is that of Narbonne; it is of a pale colour, and, on keeping, deposits larger and harder granulations than common, and is characterised by the flavour or odour of rosemary; that of Haut Provence has the fine flavour of lavender. It is, however, suspected that some of these flavours are artificial. 4161. The whitest honey is met with in the lime-tree forests near the town of Kowno in Li- thuania ; it is considered on the Continent as the most valuable, not only on account of the superiority of its flavour, but also for the estimation in which it is held for pulmonary complaints, being less heating than the ordinary kinds. The great demand for it occasions it to bear a high price, so much as two ducats per pound on the spot. This species of lime tree is peculiar to Lithuania, and is different from the rest of the genus Tilia. 4162. T7ie common honey of Britain, being chiefly derived from agricultural crops or wild plants of the leguminous kind, such as clover and beans, gorse and broom, is, when pure, of good quality, though not equal to some of those already mentioned ; the Hampshire honey is reckoned the best in England. Mr. Aikin observes, that " there is a shallow vale in Shropshire, extending from Wenlock towards Ludlow, which from time immemorial has borne the name of Apes-dale, from the number of hives formerly kept by the cot- tagers and small farmers who inhabit it, and who are said to have paid the priory of Wenlock a considerable part of their rents in honey. The soil is entirely calcareous, and during the whole summer it is covered with flowers. Select specimens of its honey," says Mr. Aikin, " bear a close resemblance in colour and hardness of granulation to that of Narbonne ; it wants, indeed, the odour of the latter, which perhaps is not natural to it." 4163. It is a remarkable fact, that the honey of some countries is poisonous. An instance of this kind is mentioned by Xcnophon, in his history of the Retreat of the 10,000 Greeks; when on the shore of the Euxine Sea, two days' march from Trebizond, those who ate of the honey found there were seized with delirium that had nearly proved fatal. Pliny speaks of another case of the same kind in the same country ; the truth of which state- ments was confirmed in modern times by Toui-nefort, who ascertained that plants with