VARIOUS ORDINARY JiEVERAGES. 691 CUAP. IX. 3936. The Tartars prepare a beverage called Koumiss from mare's milk : since milk contains a small quantity of sugar, it is not surprising that it should be capable of the vinous fermentation, although this fact is not generally Isnown. In vol. i. of the " Transactions of the Roy. Soc. of Edin." there is a paper on the subject of making koumiss by Dr. Grieve, physician to the Russian army. His account of the preparation is tlio more interestmg, since, although the liquor h<-is benu frequently mentioned by authors, yet tiiis appears to be the only correct account of it which has been published. The process is as follows : Take of fresh mare's milk any quantity ; ,idd to it one-si.'Cth part of water, and pour the mixture into a wooden vessel; use, then, as a ferment, one-eighth part of the sourest cow's milk that can be got; but at any future preparation, a small portion of old koumiss will better answer the purpose of souring : cover the vessel with a thick cloth, and set it in a place of moderate warmth ; leave it at rest twenty-four hours, at the end of which time the milk will h.ave become sour, and a thick creamy substance will be gathered on the top ; then with a stick made at the lower end in the manner of a churn stiiff, beat it till the thick substance above mentioned be blended intimately with the subjacent fluid. In this situation leave it again at rest for twenty-four hours more ; after which pour it into a higher suid narrower vessel, resembling a churn, where the agitation must be repeated as before, till the liquor appears to be perfectly homogeneous. In this state it is called koumiss, of which the taste ought to be a pleasant mixture of sweet and sour. Agitation must be employed every time before it is used. For the suc- cess of this process, heat, souring, and agitation are necessary, and ueither the cream nor the butter must be separated. It is supposed that this mode of preparing milk (which will succeed also with that of the cow) does not curdle with the juices of the stomach, while all its nutritive properties are preserved. Koumiss is used by the Tartars as their ordinary beverage, and they keep it in leathern bags, and carry it with them in their travels. When so completely secured from access of air, and kept in a cold j)lace, it may be preserved lor three months. All the parts of the milk are necessary to produce koumiss. Milk is no sooner soured thau a separation of its parts takes place ; the cream rises to the top, while the cheese falls to the bottom, or is suspended in the whey; but when the whole is agitated together, a vinous liquor is produced. Koumiss, Dr. Grieve states, has been found to be a very excellent restorative in debilitated constitutions, and particu- larly efficacious in the first stage of consumption. It is nutritive, and easy of digestion. The Tartars are also in the iiabit of separating from this fermented liquor a small quantity of spirit by dis- tillation. This spirituous liquor is called arlie or alike, and is said to be of bad taste, most probably from their imperfect m.mner of obtaining it. A Russian pliysician states that cow's milk may be fermented in the same manner, with or without souring, provided sufficient time and agitation be employed; the closer the vessels are kept during fermentation the better. The process may be shortened by warming it a little and agitating it every hour. From six pints of milk fermented in a close vessel he obtained three ounces of ardent spirit. The Tartars say that which is made with cow's milk does not contain nearly so much spirit as the koumiss from mare's milk. The Calmucs make a liquor much resembling the Braga of Russia from oatmeal and hops ; and the Hill Tartars prepare a spirit called Arraki from sloes and numerous wild berries. In Syria a beer called Zythem is fermented from the grain of the country, and a spirit is distilled from it. 3937. Mfrica A kind of beer called .Bouza is made from dhourra, or barley, by the natives of Nubia, Sennaar, and /Ethiopia generally. But the chief beverage of Africa is mead, which the itihabitants prepare from honey and barley, and a root called taddo: even the rudest of the Negro tribes, according to Mnngo Park, manu- facture beer and mead. In Dahomey they prepare Pitto from grain. 'I'he Cafl'res make an intoxicating beverage from millet, which they call Pombie. In Congo they prepare a liquor called Mil(\ffb from the juice of the palm. In Egypt, Araki is distilled from dates. In Morocco, Mahayah is distilled from figs ; and in Barbary, Usuph is made from raisins. CHAP. IX. VAEIOUS ORDINARY BEA'ERAGES. 3938. Besides wines and malt liquors, there are various beverages in common use, of ■which it will be useful to give some description. 3'J39. We shall divide these into thee classes: 1. Beverages of the simplest kind, not fermented ; 2. Beverages, consisting of water, containing a considerable quantity of car- bonic acid; 3. Beverages composed partly of fermented liquors. Sect. I. BEVERAGES OF THE SIMPLEST KIND, NOT FERMENTED. 3940. Water.—We refer the reader to medical writers for the particular value of water as a beverage ; by these it is described as the best and most wholesome beverage that exists. In Book VIII. Chap. I., we gave a description of the various kinds, such as rain water, spring water, &c. It may be proper here again to observe, that no water what- ever is absolutely pure ; the freer, however, from extraneous matter, the better, except that it should not be deprived of the common air, of which it usually contains a portion ; consequently, newly-distilled water is not desirable, nor water that is just produced from thawed ice or snow ; such water should be exposed for a day or two to the atmosphere, that it may absorb air, which appears to be essential to it as an agreeable beverage. Spring water is the most agreeable, from its general purity and coolness; but all spring water is not fit for drink, as it often contains various salts. The water of rivers is in general good, particularly when filtered ; so also is rain water; stagnant is tlie worst ; it is necessary to boil water only when it contains salts which require to be precipitated. 3941. There are certain cases in which an infusion or decoction of some substances in water for drinking are proper, either to remove the vapid taste of water alone, which is sometimes not agreeable to those who are not used to it, or to give it some other pro- Yy 2