Book VIII. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 686 3882. The plant which produces the juniper berries (^Juniperis communis) belongs to the Conifersc, and grows abundantly in most parts of Europe. It flourishes in almost any soil ; granite rocks, sandy heaths, and fertile plains appear to suit equally this plant. The fruit or berries brought from Italy are preferred to those from Germany. They are abundant and cheap in Holland, being procured from Cologne and Coblentz, and are likewise indigenous in Britain. The whole of the plant yields the oil, the extremities of the shoots as well as the fruit, but that produced by the former is more nauseous and therefore little employed. The fruit or berries are round, of a blackish purple colour, and contain an essential oil in their minute vesicles, requiring to be bruised that the oil may be freed in distillation. This oil, when obtained separately, is of a greenish yellow colour, and has an odour moderately strong, not disagreeable, and resembling that of turpentine. The taste of the berries when chewed is warm, sweetish and pungent, followed by bitterness. The oil is soluble in alcohol, and may be obtained on distillation with water. The flavour is superior to that of turpentine, but their greater price, increased by a duty of 1 Is. \d. per cwt., is no doubt the principal reason why they are so much less used here than turpentine for gin. Notwithstanding this, it is said that from 600 to 800 tons are annually imported. 3883. Although in Holland the quantity of grain that is grown is inadequate to the con- sumption of its inhabitants, yet there are few countries better supplied with that necessary of life. From Russia, Poland, Elbing, Koningsburg, and Flanders, are drawn those im- mense resources which enable the Dutch to distil to so great an extent; but Dr. Render in his " Tour through Germany " informs us that a great deal of the spirituous liquor imported as Hollands, is actually manufactured in Germany. In most of the wine dis- tricts on the Rhine, the Germans make a liquor called troster by fermenting the skins of grapes that have been pressed with ground barley or rye ; this liquor is considered very wholesome, and immense quantities of it are sold to the Dutch, who use it in distilling their Geneva. All over Germany there are not only many large distilleries, but many of the farmers distil spirits for themselves, as they are only obliged to pay two florins, about 4s. 6d., for a licence. In producing spirits, they use not only grain, but plums and fruits of various kinds, and likewise potatoes. The principal part of this is sold at the fairs in casks. 3884. The best English gin is said to be made thus : — Into the still are put ten gallons of proof spirits, together with three pounds of juniper berries, and water four gallons; the spirit is drawn off by a gentle fire till the faints begin to rise, and it is lowered with water as much as is necessary. Distillers call the gin royal when it is the strength of proof. 388.5. Tlie folloioing is said to be the mode in which the common gin is usually prepared in England. Ordinary malt spirits are put into a still with the other ingredients in the follow- ing proportion: five gallons of spirit, one ounce oil of turpentine, half a pound of juniper ber- ries, two ounces of sweet fennel and caraway seeds, and a good handful of bay salt. This is distilled off till the faints begin to rise. As much water is added to the product as is found necessary. They reckon that ten gallons of spirit will make thus fifteen gallons of common gin; and some say that turpentine alone and not juniper is used. The tur- pentine, however, is not a deleterious ingredient. Dr. A. T. Thomson observes in his " Materia Medica," " if the spirit were good, the English gin is a better diuretic than Hollands, inasmuch as the oil of turpentine is a superior diuretic to the jimiper." 3886. That Brilish gin is often nduUerated is notorious ; the late examinations before a committee of the House of Commons have opened the eyes of the public to the dreadful extent to which the consumption of this pernicious article has reached, and some of the fraudulent practices employed in adulterating it; but it is not to be expected that the whole of the deleterious substances used should ever be completely discovered. Lowering the gin usually retailed with water, and sweetening with sugar, though an adulteration and fraud almost universally practised, is the least to be regretted. The l.itter substance may be easily detected, by evaporating a quantity of the liquor in a silver spoon over a candle to dryness; the sugar will b6 rendered obvious, in the form of a gum.like substance, when the spirit is volatilised. SuBSECT. 10. — Usqtiehach. 3887. Irish ttsquebach was originally a liqueur, a compound spirit made with spices. It was called aqua vita:, and was supposed to have the power of arresting many diseases, and prolonging health and life. Among other receipts for making it the following is one. " Take of nutmegs, cloves, and cinnamon, of each, two ounces ; of the seeds of anise, caraway, and coriander, each, four ounces ; liquorice sliced, half a pound ; bruise the seeds and spices, and put them together with the liquorice'into a still with eleven gallons of proof spirits, and two gallons of water. Ilistil with a pretty fresh fire till the faints begin to rise. As soon as the liquor comes over, fix some salfron to the end of the worm that the liqiior may iiass through it and extract its tincture. Soften the whole with sugar." The term aqua vitiB has been often applied to whiskey and also to English gin. Spirit- uous liquors appear to have been much drunk in Ireland at a very early period; and in the reign of Henry VIII. it was decreed that " there be but one maker of aqua vitae in every borough upon pain of G.«. 8f/."