Book V. 200 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. before it is so hardened. Steel is likewise brittle, and no longer yields to the hammer ; and it is extremely elastic: hence, it is employed for making springs; it takes the most beautiful polish, and it is then less liable to rust than iron. Steel might, however, be too hard and brittle for many edge tools, and, therefore, after this process of hardening, most tools and instruments go through another process called temperimj, which is letting down or reducing the hardness to the degree just proper for the instrument, and thus giving it a certain firmness and toughness. 908. The tempering of steel instruments is eH'ected by heating them again to a certain point, and plunging them into cold water, or some fluid, as mercury or oil. Steel, when tempering, assumes various colours with different degrees of heat At 430° it appears of a pale yellow ; with a higher degree of heat it becomes brown ; and by increasing the heat it appears at last of a beautiful blue. Giving the temperature proper for each kind of cutting instrument is a very delicate operation, and is managed with great nicety by the cutler. There are several kinds or qualities of steel in common use ; to explain which, we must describe briefly the process by which iron is converted into steel. 909. To convert iron into steel, bars of soft iron are put into a particular kind of furnace, in layers, with powdered charcoal between each layer, and the whole is covered up close with a mixture of clay and sand, so as to prevent the access of atmospheric air. A strong heat is then applied for eight days, and the furnace is then suffered to cool; in about eight days more, it is sufiieiently cooled, and the bars of iron are thus found to be converted into steel. The explanation of the conversion of the iron into steel is this ; the iron at a high heat absorbs carbon from the charcoal put between the bars, and forms a chemical combination with it, steel being iron and carbon. This mode of making steel is called cementation. As the bars, after this process, always appear blistered on the surface, they are called Mistered steel. These bars are then hammered into rods of various sizes, and are sold as common steel, of which all kinds of forks and cheap cutlery are made. 910. Tools which require great tenacity without great hardness, such as table knives, scythes, plane iron, &c., are made of what is called shear steel, so named, because first employed in making wool shears. Shear steel is made by laying a number of bars of blistered steel together, heating them to a welding heat, and working them together into bars by a forge hammer. This forms a tough steel free from flaws. 911. All the fine articles of cutlery, such as razors, the best penknives, scissors, and instruments required to have a high polish, are made of cast steel. Cast steel is made by fusing blistered steel in covered crucibles, and pouring it into cast iron moulds, so as to form it into ingots ; these ingots are afterwards drawn into bars or rods of suitable di- mensions. Formerly this kind of steel could only be worked at a very low heat; but it can now be made so soft as to be welded to iron with the greatest ease, wliich saves the expense of making certain articles entirely of steel, the edge part only requiring to be of this material, Wootz is a species of steel manufactured in India only, and as it admits of a higher temper than our steel, it has been imported for making razors and surgical instruments, for which it answers admirably, though it does not appear to be certain that it is superior for these purposes to our best cast steel. It is not known accurately in what manner it is produced from the ore, but it is supposed to be a natural steel. 912. Silver steel, and Peruvian steel, are also names which we see announced as desig- nating metals of superior qualities ; but without any good reason. 913. The discovery of steel is, perhaps, second in importance to few of those which man has made ; for it has given him all the best edge and cutting tools by which he has moulded almost every other substance to his wishes. A savage will work for twelve months with fire and sharp stones, to fell a great tree, and to give it the shape of a canoe, which a modern carpenter with his tools, could acccomplish in a few days. So manage- able has steel become, that it can be softened sufficiently to admit of being engraved on like copper; and it is afterwards hardened, by which the plate so produced can give ten times as many, or more, impressions than a copper plate, before it is worn out, 914. Iron is perfectly harmless, when employed in culinan/ vessels. Its rust or oxide, so far from being hurtful, is frequently prescribed as an excellent tonic; and the only inconvenience arising from employing the metal in its pure state is its liability to rust, thus wearing into holes ; and in this case it is likewise apt to tinge the colour of food prepared in it. On this account saucepans, tea-kettles, and other utensils made of iron are tinned over, to prevent rusting. Cast iron is much less apt to rust than hammered or rolled. 91.5. There is one precaution by means of which the disagreeable effects, produced by this metal on food tvhcn it rusts, may be very much diminished^ and indeed in most cases almost entirely prevented, especially when the utensil is made of cast iron. If, instead of scouring the inside of such boilers and stew pans v ith sard, they be simply washed and