28 Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. columns and vases, -which approach closely to Egyptian granite. Porphyry and basalt are too hard to be used for ordinary purposes. Other stones used amongst us for building are hard limestones, and such stones as are generally known by the name of freestone. The name of freestone is applied to such stones as can be cut readily, and as well in one direction as another, not being fissile or splitting into thin layers like slate. When limestones admit of a polish, they are called marbles. All our fine white marbles are imported, for we have none in Britain of equal quality with foreign, except what is quarried in too small blocks, or is situated inconveniently for transportation. Though most of the veined and coloured marbles to be seen in use are also foreign, we have abundance of coloured marbles in Devonshire arid Derbyshire, some of which are of considerable beauty ; but they are not extensively employed. Grey compact limestone is durable, but cannot easily be worked into a smooth face, and, therefore, is not calculated to make an elegant front. Magnesian limestone is an exception ; it is of a light yellow colour, extremely durable, and much employed in Yorkshire, and those parts of England where the quarries are situated, and is now used in the new Houses of Parliament. The most usual stones for the fronts of houses in England, are the freestones. Oolite is a calcareous freestone, composed of small rounded grains resembling fish roe, whence the name. It is abundant in many of the counties of England. 84. Bath stone is an oolitic limestone so soft that when fresh from the quarry it can be cut by a toothed saw like wood, yet it hardens considerably in the air. AU the city of Bath is constructed with it, and it is likewise now brought in considerable quantities to London, being less expensive than Portland stone from the facility with which it is cut and carved; but it is not durable. 85. Portland stone is another variety of oolite, which has been used in the most important public buUdings in London, and formerly for the paving of many of the private edifices, till the use of stucco, in a great measure superseded it. It is now employed chiefly in sills, coping, stone staircases, landings, and other subordinate parts of a building for which Bath stone is too soft. 86. Sandstones are freestones composed of grains of sand cemented together naturally : they are infinitely various in hardness, durability and colour, some being excellent for the fronts of houses, while other kinds are so soft as to be totally unfit, or require being protected by stucco. Though sandstones are the best that consist chiefly of silicious particles, yet when the cement that unites the gi-ains of sand is of calcareous or argillaceous matter, the durability is extremely variable, and only experience can determine whether they should be employed : it is the cementing matter that suffers disintegration by various causes, as the rain and frost; and when this is destroyed, the stone of course falls to pieces. The commencement of this destruction.may be frequently observed by lichens growing on the stones, the decayed cement affording a proper soil for these minute plants Some kinds of stone lie in the quarry in vast masses, scarce!)', if at all, in beds, and consequently they can be raised in very large blocks: of this nature are most granites, porphyries, serpentines, and many marbles, particularly statuary. Extraordinary iustances of large blocks of these stones may be seen in the columns and obelisks of the ancients, as also in the walls of ancient cities; and very large blocks of granite are brought from Devon, Cornwall, and Aberdeenshire. Portland also furnishes large blocks of oolite. Sandstones are always in layers more or less thick; some layers furnishing good sand- stone of considerable scantling, while others are only fit for flags and paving. This is owing to the manner in which the sand forming the stone has been originally deposited, and many sandstones are farther deteriorated by their containing fossil shells and other organic bodies. When these are numerous, the stone is seldom fit for facings. Much valuable information respecting the building stones of this country may be obtained by consulting the Report made to the Commissioners of Woods and Forests on the occasion of selecting the best stone for the new Houses of Parliament. 87. Of marbles, we have few that are the produce of this country : all our best marbles are imported from the Continent. Our white statuary marble comes from Carrara, in Italy. It is beautiful and fine grained, and is used not only for statues, busts, &c., but for the best chimney pieces. We have no white marbles in Britain that can be procured in blocks so large, nor so fit for the sculptor. Of veined and coloured marbles we have many in Britain very good, but they are not much in use, few of them being of such richness as the Continental marbles. An interesting marble is found in Derbyshire, filled with fragments of the fossils called Encrinites, which is occasionally employed for chimney pieces ; and there is a great variety of coloured marbles in Devonshire, which deserve to be more employed. Black marble, as well as several others, are brought from Ireland. The Petworth and Purbeck marbles were formerly n\uch used in Gothic churches, but they are now little known. . - „• AVe may here observe, that English builders are in the habit of callmg almost all stones that take a jiolish by the name of marbles ; but the term should be confined to calcareous itoncs only; leaving serpentines, porphyries, &c. to be designated by the names proper to