980 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVIL in the open air, under tlie shade of the tamarind or mango tree, and every return of inclcmeDt weather interrupts liim. In some parts of India, however, as on the banlcs of the Ganges, the weavers worit under the cover of sheds, fixing the geer of their looms to a l)amboo in tlie roof. They size their w.-irp with rice-starch. When chequered muslins are wrought, three persons are employed at each loom ; one pulls the thread to form the pattern, anotlier twists it, and the third weaves. .Spinning and weaving do not disgrace any one ; the first 16 practised even by women of ranli, and the weaver takes place of all other mechanics, ranliing next to the scribes ; yet were he to perform any drudg<Ty of another kmd, he would lose caste. A journeymau cotton- weaver earns from 2 to 2^ rupees {4s. to Us.) a nionih ; ;i woman spinning coarse yarn can earn only l^rf. per day. It is truly surprismg that, with machinery so rude, this people should produce such delicate fabrics ; which, indeed, are scarcely rivalled by those skilled in the mechanical arts. But this is partly explained by the line sense of touch possessed by the Hindoos, by Iheir patience and gentleness, and by their cliildren having l>een trained up from their infancy to an art which has been practised by the same family from generation to generation. 5771. The finest muslins arc produced in Bengal. The Coromandel coast is celebrated for the best cali- coes, and Surat lor strong .and inferior goods ol every kind. Condaver furnishes the beautiful handkerchief! of IVIasulipat.am. The chintzes and ghighams are chiefly miide at Masulipatam, liladras, and Paliamcotta. The long cloths and pullicots are produced in the presidency of Madras. Besides these there is an endless variety of fabrics, each district in India producing something peculiar. 5772. 77ic change that is taking place in the cotton manufactures of India deserve a few remarks. From what we have already stated in our historj' of this nianufaeture, it is seen that no real cotton cloths were made in England previous to the invention of the spinning machines hy Arkwright; before that time, all fabrics entirely of cotton, aU calicoes, chintzes, muslins, &c., were imported from India. Even after the discoveries of Arkwright, Indian cottons were prohibited, not so much for the protection of our cotton, but of our woollen manufacture; and afterwards, to encourage calico-printing, plain Indian calicoes were admitted under a duty, and were printed in England; but at that time all muslins, which were much worn by ladies, were Indian, and no attempt to imitate them was made until the invention of Crompton's spinning-machine, called the mule, which spun, for the first time, cotton yarn sufficiently fine and strong for muslin. From our improvements in machinery, by which cotton thread is spun with such facility, this manufacture in India is now suffering to a great extent. Not only do we undersell Indian cottons in foreign markets, but actually a great quantity of yarn spun by British machinery is sold to the Indian weavers at one half the price which they pay to their own women, notwithstanding the extreme cheapness of their living. The consequences to the natives of India must be extremely injurious, since their hand-loom weavers cannot com- pete with our steam-engines. Sect. VIII. description of the various cotton fabrics. 5773. It is scarcely possible to convey any adequate idea of the variety of cotton-cloths or fabrics that have issued from the loom and the printer, since the commencement of this manufacture to the present time. The pattern cards of Manchester goods sent out to the Continent by the most considerable manufacturers have presented specimens of upwards of 1500 different kinds, varying in strength and pattern from the coarse cloths to the finest muslins, and in colour from the richest chintz to plain goods, including many figured in the loom. The following descriptions include only those in general use. 5774. Calico derives its name from the province of Calicut, in India, where it was chiefly made, and from which it was obtained when originally imported into Europe. It was first brought hither from India, in 1631, and was first manufactured in this coimtry about 1772. 5775. The various kinds of calicoes made in this country are common plain white calico, usually called cotton cloth; fents are remnants, or pieces of this sewed together, and sold as low as 2d., or 2^1. per yard. Duck is a stouter kind ; and double warp is still stouter. Calico shirting, or twine-cloth, is a very even made calico, to imitate linen ; a superior kind is called patent twist: the yarn is closer twisted than in common calico. Sheeting calico is a stout fabric, much used as a substitute for linen, and by many persons preferred, par- ticularly in cold weather. Printed calicoes, or, as they are called, prints, originally made in imitation of those from India, are now manufactured here of an infinity of patterns, of which each year produces some new ones. Vast quantities are exported to every part of the world. See " Calico Printing," Book XVII. Chap. XII. Calicoes are frequently so full of the dressing, a preparation of lime put in by the manufacturer, to make it of a better colour, that it is difficult to ascertain its quality ; it is best, therefore, to choose calico, if possible,, free from dressing, aud to see that the threads are straight and evenly woven. 5775. Chintz is a peculiar style of printed calico in which the figures are of at least five different colours, impressed upon a white or coloured ground. They were originally from India, but are now made here of great beauty. 5777. Muslins. India muslins were first introduced into this country about the rear 1670, before which time cambrics and Silesia lawns were used instead, and such fine linens from'Flanders and Germany as were brought back in exchange for our woollen manu- »