I :hap. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. 253 1141. The reading desk, fig. 338., is made to place upon a table, and may be raised to any required angle by a frame and rack. Two leaf-holders of brass are made to turn upon the edge of the stop lath for keeping the book open. An- other variety is represented by fig. 339., wluchmay be elevated or lowered, as well as raised to any angle. This is a very conve- nient invention for the purpose. 1142. A portfolio stand, fig. 340., is particularly useful where prints or drawings are kept in portfolios : by laying the portfolio flat on a table, fre- (uently the contents receive injury. The flat piece at the bottom of the portfolio is ".made to fold up when the stand is closed to put away: and thei'e is a contrivance to nrevent its opening too far. There are various forms of it; but that in the figure is the simplest. 1143. Library steps are necessary to raise any person so as to reach books at the top of hhe bookcases. They are sometimes made to close together and imitate some piece of uumiture when not in use. 1144. Writing tables ani writing desks. The French terms of bureau, escritoires, and ecretaires, are synonymous for these useful pieces of furniture ; and our best contrivances !'f this kind have been originally borrowed from our neighbours. Fig. 341. is the well- nnown bureau, which is now seldom to be found except at the broker's, but was, not long Fig. 340. Fig. 341. igo, in very general use, frequently with a neat bookcase over it, and was very conve- lident, and by no means inelegant, though at present out of fashion. The flap for writing upon is made to fall down, and is supported by two runners below that draw out; and within are various small drawers and cells for papers. The large drawers serve as an ordinary chest of drawers. It would seem that the sloping appearance of the flap had been ob- jected to ; for we find various contrivances to get rid of this. One \sfig. 342., in which the small drawers and cells are concealed by a cover made of a number of slips of mahogany, so connected that they draw down in the form of the quarter of a cylinder ; and the writing part is made to draw out straight. It may be further decorated with a place above for books, or for various ornamental things, and the front with columns, consols, &c. Fig. 343. is an article of this kind in very general use in France, made to project less into the room ; the writing flap goes up perpendicularly, forming part of the front when closed, irmd is supported by metal quadrants or other contrivances. Fig. 344. is a writing table calculated for a ladies' apartment, in which the writing aart consists of a shelf that pulls out, having upon it a leaf that lifts up, and may be made 'O rest upon the table top, which may be of marble ; this will give the necessary slope for 'vriting. The body may contain drawers concealed by folding doors, or shelves servino- ws a chiffonnicre, or be filled up in any other mode that may be wished for. Fig. 345. is a