ON MAKING BREAD. Book IX. 750 CHAP. ni. THEORY OF BEEAD-MAKIKG ; THE VARIOUS KINDS OF BEEAD, AND MANNER OF PREPARING THEM. Sect. I. UNFER3IENTED BREAD. 4267. Leaven having been, as we have stated in our " History of Bread," the original substance by which bread was fermented, there -were at first but two kinds of bread, unleavened and leavened. Hence the term unfermented was then sjTionymous with un- leavened ; at present this is not the case, as bread prepared with yeast is, strictly speaking, also unleavened. Among the Jews, however, the use of the name unleavened is restricted to bread not at all fermented, and this use of the term is not imusual with others. 4268. When meal or flour and water are kneaded together, they form a tenacious paste called dough, not easily digestible by the stomach. The action of fire produces a consider- able change on the gluten, and likewise in the starch of the flour, rendering the compound more easy to masticate and digest. Forming meal produced from any kind of grain into cakes by moistening it with water, and toasting these before the fire or on the embers, on a hot plate, or baking it in an oven, were the first methods practised of making bread, and these modes are still used extensively in many parts of the world. Milk, butter, eggs, suet, and other substances are occasionally mixed with the flour and water, to make the bread lighter or more agreeable. Unfermented bread may be flaky, but is never porous or spongy. 4269. The primitive mode of baking bread is still preserved among the Arabs of the desert, who, as Niebuhr informs us, " lay cakes of dough in hot coals, covering them entirely with the ashes till the bread, in their opinion, is quite done, when they take them from the ashes and eat thetn warm : but they prefer baking them upon an iron plate, which they carry with them, as cleaner." Portable ovens are frequent in Eastern countries, and form part of the furniture of travellers in that part of the world. St. Jerome describes an Eastern oven as a round vessel of brass, blackened on the outside by the surrounding fire, which heats it within. 4270. The bread eaten by the Jews during the Passover is unleavened ; and this usage was introduced in commemoration of their hasty departure from Egj^t, when, not having leisure to bake leavened bread, they took the dough before it was fermented, and " baked of it unleavened cakes." 4271. Unleavened bread is much used, not only in this kingdom, but in other countries, every kind of grain nqt affording meal capable of being fermented easily by itself. This is the case with the meal of barley, oats, and maize. The method of making bread of this kind is extremely simple, and has the advantage of requiring the least preparation ; although this species of bread is not so light and easily digested by those who have lived long in an artificial state of society, and who are accustomed to very different food, yet a large proportion of robust healthy peasantry in the northern parts of this island subsist upon it. 4272. Barley bread. — This is much used in Scotland, particularly in the Highlands, as also in Wales, in Devonshire, and some other parts of England. The barley meal is made into bread by kneading it well with water and a little salt; it is then formed im- mediately either into thick or thin cakes, as may be required. When made stiflT, and about three quarters of an inch thick, called barley bannocks, they are toasted or baked before a clear hot fire, by being placed upon the edge, and when nearly done, they recpiire to be watched well that they may not burn. It was most likely this sort of cakes that our great Alfred was left to take care of when a goatherd, and the neglect of which brought on the chiding which he experienced. Very thin barley cakes called scons are much used in the Highlands, particularly at breakfast; they are made by baking them quickly on an iron plate, and when well made are much relished; they are generally eaten warm with butter. Barley bread is also much used in Norway : in short, in those countries which are too cold for the cultivation of other kinds of grain. 4273. Oat bread. Oatmeal is much used in Scotland, Lancashire, and other northern counties of England, and also in Wales. The mode of forming it into bread is the same as that with barley meal. When made thick, this bread in Scotland is called bannock, the term cakes being there reserved for the thin sort, which are first baked upon a hot plate or griddle till they are stiff enough to stand upon their edges, and then they are toasted before a turf fire made on the hearth till they are crisp. In farm houses they bake a considerable quantity at once, and keep them on a rack fixed to the ceiling: they may be kept for a long time if quite dry.