,iAP. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. 237 227. Fig. 230 Fig. 2V8 11104. Flowers are employed to decorate apartments in various -ways. They are kept hher growing in flower-pots, or in water, after having been gathered. The common red rrthen flower-pot with a saucer is well known; but there are likewise some made of leer earthenware, a more ornamental kind. The latest improvement is by making them tform of a handsome vase, the lower part of which forms the receptacle for the water, liiich was first done by Wedgewood. Fig. 232. represents a section ; a, b, is the lower rrt containing the water; into this is placed the flower-pot itself containing the earth, iJd the appearance of a saucer is done away with. Fig. 233. is the improved form given to these flower-pots at the lately-established pot- teries at Lowesby, in Leicestershire, and are painted in the style of the Etruscan and other antique vases. Large flower-pots in rooms are usually placed within a box of wood on concealed casters. When flowers are kept in bean-pots, they begin to droop and fade after being twenty-four hours in water: a few may be revived by substituting fresh water; but aU may be a little restored by putting one-third of the stems into warm water; by the time this water has be- come cold, the flowers wiU be erect and fresh ; then cut ofi' the ends of the stems, and place them in I'.ild water, by which they may be kept a day or two longer. A great many flowers may completely dried, with all their colours preserved, by burying them for some time in hot land. In this process, the flowers are placed erect in a vessel capable of bearing heat, and it)t sand is poured aroimd them, but so as not to disturb their shapes. They are then ippt in a oven gently heated till they are thoroughly dried. Groups prepai'ed in this ay are sold in Covent Garden market, and are very pretty. 1110.5. The flowering of bulbous roots in water-glasses is, likewise, an agreeable manner ' ornamenting apartments. ilt has been lately discovered that many plants, particularly ferns, may be kept growing : an apartment, without any watering, by being planted in a box, and inclosed in glass, lilants have even been brought from India in a growing state by this contrivance, lOugh the effect appears to be contrary to our usual experience. F/g. 256 Fig. 232. Fig. 233.