1091 iiAi'. VIII. CONSTRUCTION OF WASH-HOUSE, ETC. Fig. 826. drying stores of various kinds. When the laundry is a separate building, the drying may be placed over the ironing-room. When there is no drying closet, the clothes are hung up in the laundry on standing or leaf-folding horses, or lines stretched across, or, what is better, on frames with horizontal bars suspended to the ceiling, and raised and lowered by a rope and winch. G52.'>. The best method of drying indoors is by a drying-closet adjoining the laundry and wash-house. By this the health and comfort of those employed are greatly promoted, by their being almost entirely freed from the pernicious effect of damp vapoui-, and in not being incommoded by great heat in hot weather; and the linen is kept quite free from smoke and dust. The drying-closet may be 8 feet by 6 feet, and may contain four wooden horses, each with five rails or bars. Each horse runs in and out of the closet upon two small iron wheels upon an iron railway. One such horse wiU hold six shirts,- or a proportional quantity of other linen, and the whole will dry off as much and as speedily as six women can wash in succession ; or the drying-closet may be so small that two horses only can be used, and the heat may be sufficient to dry the linen in an hour. The same furnace that heats the irons may likewise heat this'drying-closet, by making the flue continue round the bottom of it, before it is carried to the top of the building. The top of the horizontal part of the flue must be of cast-iron plates, and a few inches above it the above-mentioned iron railway is laid, between which and the flue there is a flooring of wire-work to prevent any accident from the casual falling of linen upon the flues, but so as not to prevent the ascent of warm air. Level with the railway, inside the closet, there must be an opening 15 inches square, communicating with the external air. The ceiling of the closet should be in the form of an inverted hopper ter- minating in a funnel of the same diameter (15 inches) as the external aperture. Both these openings are furnished with sliding doors, which open and shut, as required, by pulley cords like sashes. The principle upon which it acts is by heating it to a degree sufficient to excite a strong evaporation from the wet linen, and carrying ofi' the moisture by means of the two openings. During the time of its acquiring this heat, both the openings and the horses are kept closely shut, so that the closet is nearly air-tight. As soon as the proper degree of heat is obtained, both the vents are to be opened, when a strong current of air rushes in at the lowermost, carrying up all the vapour from the linen through the upper opening or funnel, and thus the drying is very speedily com- pleted. 6526. But the beat mode of heating the drifing-closet is by means of a steam-pipe passing through it; the steam may be furnished by a small copper placed in the wash-house. This will obviate any danger that there may be in heating it with a smoke flue or iron pipes, which, except very great care is employed in the construction, will exist. In case of using steam, the drying-closet may be constructed entirely of wood, taking care that the joints are made in such a way as not to open by shrinking. Fig. 826. represents the longitudinal section of such a drying-closet, and fig. 827. is the transverse section, a, a, a, a is a steam pipe traversing the interior of the closet, which is seen at bottom again surrounded by an inclosure; and the air that enters by an aperture under- neath, is heated and issues into the bot- tom of the closet; on each side of this steam pipe, in the interior, is a horse on rollers for the linen, which is repre- sented in fig. 820. as partly drawn out by a handle. In the transverse section, fig. 827., this horse is represented with linen hanging on it. The hot air with the moisture passes off at each side through a narrow aperture that com- municates with an upright tube, b, that can be closed as much as necessary to regulate the draught by a valve turning on a centre. C527. Drying-houses are constructed for drying calicoes and other similar fabrics in manufactories on a large scale. They are heated by steam .passing through pipes in the drying-house ; the cloth is suspended on lines ; and the vapour is carried off by apertures in the roof. The advantage of the steam is, that it is quite safe, and that the place can never be overheated. 6528. A cleanly and expediliom mode of healing smoothing-irons is very essential in a good laundry. In a very small way, these irons are heated by placing them on a moveable iron shelf hung on the bars of a gi'atc ; but in this manner they are very apt to be soiled 4 A 2