f.7-1 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. Skct. IV, PRACTICAL DIRECTIONS FOR BREWING. 3237. Having noio yiven a general view of those scientific principles upon which the art of brewing should be conducted, we proceed to lay down such plain practical directions as are necessary to be attended to. We have already pointed out how much brewing requires the knowledge of its theory ; but it would be difficult, perhaps impossible, to draw from the mere theory of an art the best modes of practice, since these have been the result of long experience, not by one only, but by various persons. The following practical direc- tions have been drawn from the best sources; but we have already stated that no rules can be laid down that can serve as infallible guides in all cases; and hence we would recommend the attentive perusal of the previous section. But as there may be many per- sons who may wish to brew their own beer, without having leisure or inclination to pay so much attention to the theory as may be required, we have endeavoured to render this section as complete a guide as possible by itself. SuBSECT. 1. —Explanation of Technical Terms. 3238. In every trade there are some terms peculiar to it, consisting of the names of parts of the apparatus used, or of particular operations. These terms, called technical, are fre- quently unintelligible to those not belonging to the trade, and throw a sort of mystery over the whole practice. This, which is, perhaps, in some degree unavoidable, impedes considerably the diflusion of knowledge, by creating a kind of cant language, which is sometimes resorted to for the purpose of concealing the processes. 3239. It is very desirable thai these terms, often very unmeaning, should be employed as little as possible; but in the meantime we propose to translate the brewer's into the ordinary language, or, iu other words, to give an explanation of their technical expressions. Liquor This is always the brewer's term for water, — a word which he never uses. Pale malt. — Malt which has been exposed to slight heat only in the liiln. Amber malt. — Malt which has been exposed to a degree of heat somewhat greater. Brown malt. — Malt which has been dried so.much as to change the colour of the grain a little. Patent malt. —MdiMihat has been roasted like coffee. Slack dried malt Malt which has been dried in the kiln less than usual. Grist. — Malt that lias lieen ground for mashing. Goods. — The brewer's term for the ground malt iu the mash tub. Mellowed malt. —That which has been exposed to the air for some time, and wiiich, consequently, has imbibed some water hygromctrically, in contra-dis- tinction to that which is Iresli from the kiln. Backs, are large vessels of any kind intended to hold wort. The term is probably a corruption of the French baque, which signifies the same thing. Liquor back The water cistern to supply the brewery. Liquor copper Copper for heating water. ffori copper. —Copper for boiling the wort and hops. Mash tun or tub, — Vessel lor infusing the malt. Masking oars. — Sticks for stirring up the mash. Masking machines, are lised in great breweries for Stirring the mash. Tap tree.—A wooden shaft for stopping the hole in the bottom of the mash tub. Setting tap Letting off the sweet wort. Underback.— Vvssvl to receive the wort when let off from the mash tub. Hop back The first vessel for the wort to cool in. where the wort is drained from the liops. This is also sometimes called the Jack back. Coolers Vessels to cool the wort in. Gj/le tun, the Jermcnting tun, or fermenting tub— The vessel in which the lurmentation is carried on. This is also called the working tun, and by the great brewers squares, from their form. Pilcking the wort Setting the wort to ferment: applied particularly to the degree of heat; as pitching at 7SO. Working.—Fermenting. Stomach.—A strange cant term used by the workmen for the spirituous odour perceived in fermentation. —Sprinkling hot water on the grains to obtain more wort alter the first has been taken. Stillions Vessels to receive the yeast that drains from the barrels: this name is also api>licd to the supports of the barrels. Store vats—Large vessels for keeping malt liquor to supply customers from. Entire gyles—When there is only one kind of beer from tlie same malt. Party gyles—A n.ime used by the excise for m.iking two kinds of beer from one malt. A gyle of beer The whole quantity made at one brewing. Blinked—A species of acetification to which beer is liable. Foxed—When specks of white mould form in the wort as it is cooling. Yeast-bitter.—When too much yeast has been used, and the beer is rendered too bitter. Hacking Transferring beer from one cask to another, to get rid of the lees or sediment. Lengths.—A term used by the brew er to express the whole quantity of one kincl of wort, made from a cer- tain quantity of malt. Making up lengths Making up the whole quantity of beer of a certain strengtli. Coming vp Beginning to ferment again. Cleansing The second or slow fermentation that beer undergoes in barrels before it is finally put into tlie ca^ks. Bounds.—Large vessels like hogshe.ids, in which brewers transfer the porter from the fermenting v.ats, to undergo the slow fermentation previous to its being put into the store vats. Attenuation, is the conversion of the sugar of the malt into spirit, and the consequent reduction of the specific gravity of the fiuid in the fermenting tub. from this change. Briskness of ale or beer is that st.nte in w hich there is a quantity of carbonic acid compressed in it, which flies olf when exposed lo the air. Flatness, is the want of the last quality. Neaviness, seems to be the same thing, but with more alcohol. Fretting, me.-ms a slight fermentation, by which the beer becomes again turbid. Feeding Ike beer, is managing so that there shall be some saccharine lelt to cause a slight fermentation, which gives an addition of alcohol and cirbonic acid. llon.sing.—Stirring up the beer so as to excite tlie fermentation. Jleat at which the Itm is pitched—The temperature at which tlie fermentation is begun. Beliirn Water which lias been pnt to the.grains after all the wort has been run off to be used for another brewing instejid of water alone.