740 Book IX ON MAKING BREAD. fermentation in the process of baking, and is thought in consequence to have a gentk action on the bowels. Some persons express regret that there is here a prejudice against rye bread, since tlie grain thrives upon poor sandy soils on which wheat would scarcely return the seed: this is the case where rye is extensively cultivated, in the poor sandy land on the south coast of the Baltic, where its weight of corn is nearly as great as that grown upon good land, and it is produced at little expense. It also yields a large quantity of straw, good for thatching. In some farmers' families, household bread is made of a mixture of one-third rye and two-thirds wheaten flour, which makes a sweeter bread than that made solely of wheat, and is preferred to any other by those who are in the habit of using it. The bread is very firm and solid, and retains its juiciness and moisture long, being also very nu- tritious. For this purpose rye is sown along with wheat, under the appellation of " meslin." 4212. From the quantity of saccharine matter which rye contains, though less than barley, it is convertible into malt, and of course into beer and spirits; but it is much inferior to barley, iu some respects, for these purposes, though it is said to give a gi-eat quantity of spirit. Unmalted rye meal mixed with barley, in the proportion of two parts of the former to one of the latter, is employed in Holland for the distillation of Geneva. It is said that the essential oil which rises with the spirit has a peculiar flavour, and it is thought that this resides in the husk ; for the black bread of the Russians, which contains the husk ground up with the meal, has a difi'erent flavour from the fine rye bread made of rye flour only. 4213. But this grain, which has been, and still is, so much cultivated as a bread corn, is subject to a disease called ergot, or horned rye, which consists of a fungous substance tliat grows in it occasionally, enlarging and deforming the grain ; and tlie effects produced ujjon tlie Imman constitution by this poison are so very dread- ful, if what is recorded can be depended upon (and there is no reason to doubt the authenticity of the accounts which have been published), that we can scarcely regret its almost entire banishment from this country as a material for food. It is stated that those who have eaten bread made from rye infected with ergot have been attacked by disorders of the most appalling kind, such as epilepsy, which ended fatally; others have been rendered irrecoverably insane ; wliilst in others, again, the disease has been so virulent as to terminate in mortification of the limbs. It appears that these misfortunes have occurred frequently in some parts of Ger- many and France, particularly iu Sologne, a district between the Loire and Clier. The ergot is seldom found in England, although it does occasionally appear, and not only in rye, but sometimes in wheat and other grain. Even damaged corn is known to have acted as a fatal poison. (See this subject treated of at length in Prof. Burnett's " Outlines of Botany," pp.211, 212.) The mouldiness on stale bread is a minute plant, and always connected with a state of decomposition of the bread, which renders it very unwholesome, and even dangerous, if eaten. Spbsect. 5.—Rice. 4214. Rice (Oriza sativa, Lin.) is a plant of Asiatic origin, and has formed the chief food, from time immemorial, of the population of India and the Chinese empire. It is cultivated in Europe, but chiefly in the southern part, requiring a warm climate. It grows extensively in the rich meadows of Lombardy, and also in the province of Valencia in Spain i but the chief countries from which we obtain this grain are Carolina, into which it was introduced in the last century, and the East Indies. It probably nourishes more human beings than all the other seeds together. 4215. Common rice is a marsh plant, and the land where it grows requires to be flooded by irrigation, which renders the vicinity of rice grounds unhealthy, giving rise to marsh fevers. It grows very rapidly, and its cultivation is easy. There is, ^ however, a variety of rice in Nepaul in India, called Hill rice, cultivated upon the slopes of hills, where it can receive mois- ture only occasionally ; and it has been supposed that this might in time be acclimated in England ; but we should not thus obtain it at a cheaper rate than that at which it is now im- ported. Rice, in its growth, resembles barlej' more than any other corn plant, rising to the height of a foot and a half, with a stalk notimlike that of barley, but fuller of joints, and with leaves resembling those of the leek. It branches out into se- veral stems, at the top of which the grains form in clusters. The grains or seeds grow on separate pedicles which spring from the main stalk (fie/. G13.) ; each grain is terminated by an awn or beard, and is inclosed in a yellow husk. The whole head forms what is termed by botanists a spiked panicle, that is, something between a spike like wheat, and a panicle like oats. There are various methods of cultivating and dressing rice practised in different countries : tlie following is the mode which Captain Basil Hall observed in Carolina. Fin. (il:3