GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. 830 are convenient. Steam has been employed for preserving pans ; and it has this advan- tage, that the sugar is never exposed to a heat above 212°, and therefore can never be burned. For this purpose the bottom must be double, as in fig. 669., and the steam is admitted between by a pipe, -while the condensed water runs off by a small pipe from the bottom. They may be made to be detached from the tube when required. Sect. VII. APPARATUS rOR STEWING. 4716. Stewing requiring a more gentle and equal heat than boiling cannot be effected so well over an open coal fire. The only usual method in this country formerly was by means of stewing hearths, or stewing stoves, which are still employed, and almost universally by French cooks. 4717. Stewing stoves are small pits, a,a,a, fig 670., formed in a mass of brickwork, 6, c. These pits are from six to twelve inches square, and four inches or more in depth: they have a iron grate at the bottom, and below that is the ash pit supplied with air by an aperture in front. Charcoal is always burned in them, and as this gives no smoke no flue is made. The stewpans are placed over the fire in these pits on tripods or bars of iron. The front is best made of neat brick- work, but some prefer making this of iron, which lasts longer, and is less apt to get out of order. The top also, which is sometimes covered with paving tUes, is best made of cast-iron. The pits them- selves ought to be lined with fii'e bricks, with an iron rim around them, or an inside lining, or a box made of cast-iron. The aperture in front, d, e, maybe either left open, or partly filled up with a drawer, y, to hold charcoal, and another smaller one of iron, g, to receive the ashes, a space, h, being still left open for the draught. This kind of stewing stove is found very convenient, and may be fitted up in any place, at a small expense. The only objection that appears to it is, that it produces a great deal of imwholesome gas by the combustion of the charcoal, which is extremely injurious to the health of the cooks. Instead of the situation at the side of the chimney, some cooks prefer having the stewing stoves placed on the window side of the kitchen, for the benefit of a full light. These stewing stoves are less employed in London kitchens on a large scale than they were formerly, being in a great measure superseded by the hot plates to be described after- wards ; but the best cooks consider them as superior to the latter, the heat being more mild and more easily regulated; accordingly sometimes some of each kind are placed in the kitchen. To carry off the vapours of the charcoal, it would not be difficult in many situations to have a hood constructed over the stoves with a flue at the top leading into a fire-flue, or through the wall, to the outside of the kitchen. 4718. A very ingenious method of employing common coal for stewing stoves, instead of the charcoal in common use, was invented by Count Rumford, and executed at Munich, and also at the Royal Institution, in 1800 ; a great many of them were likewise made in London by various tradesmen ; but as they are not manufactured at present, and as those put up in the Royal Institution are no longer to be seen there, we do not think this is the place to enter upon their description ; those who are desirous of learning something about these culinary inventions may consult the Count's " Essays." 4719. The vessels for stewing in differ from those used for boiling. The stewpan, fig. 671., is usually made of copper, instead of being of tin H ko thc sauccpau ; and they are less deep. The handles ^^^^^^^^^^ of the cover are placed as in the woodcut. ^^""^ -^a^-as^S--'''^ rjijjg advice to keep copper stewpans well tinned on the inside cannot be given too often, since it is well known that fatal accidents have happened through neglect of this precaution. The tinning should extend about an inch and a half from the top downwards on the outside.