357 cChap. I. NUTRITION CONSIDERED. wvhat is the same thing, linen rags and old ropes. Now, sugar and gum are substances ilhat, to a certain extent, may be employed as food; and thus may dry and otherwise idndigestible wood be converted into nutriment. It must be observed that this is not an i»xtraction of sugar and gum from wood, but an actual formation of these substances liiuring the process made use of. This may at first appear to be an extravagant case ; bbut when the reader has studied what we shall have to say respecting the processes of I'tfermentation, he will begin to perceive that these are merely a few of the interesting ibhanges which are the result of natural powers, and which chemistry alone discovers and irjxplains. The fact is, that the substances which we have just mentioned, namely, gum md sugar, are compounds, and consist of the same elements, carbon, hydrogen, and nDxygen, though in diiferent proportions ; and very slight circumstances are sufficient to wring about such a change in the proportions of the elements necessary to form these iiifferent substances as to convert one into another. It is not pretended that science is ii'et able to turn such curious facts to much practical account, and to extract useful nourish- iinent from every vegetable material; although we may add that sugar is actually manu- .lactured in some places fi-om starch, which is a similar conversion. The instances we have uQeutioned are rather for the purpose of illustration; but it is evident that by such discoveries I wide field is opened for research, and further experiments may lead to more important vesults. Of this, at least, we are certain, that they will make us better acquainted with hhe natm'e and properties of the materials which we already possess, and enable us to eelect, upon principle, those which have the best claim to our preference. f Sect. IV. ON THE CHEMICAX DIFFEKENCE BETWEEN ANIMAl. AND VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES, CONSIDERED WITH RELATION TO THEIR USE AS FOOD. 1730. No two classes can oflTer a stronger contrast than the two gi-eat divisions of or- ganic bodies, animals and vegetables. It is well known that the substances of which ;aey are composed have very difi'erent properties when employed as food ; and it will be lateresting to inquire whether chemistry can point out any marked difference in their oonstituent or elementary principles, \^^e have already stated that both these classes are Domposed of the same elements, though not in the same proportions. One striking dif- irrence between them is, that nitrogen is scarcely ever absent in animal bodies, although it : rare in vegetables; it does occur, however, in certain parts of the latter, as well as largely II the mushroom tribe, and also in wheat; and when this is the case, such vegetables ap- troach somewhat more nearly than the others to the character of animal bodies. Thus, to ■ppeat what we have said, animal substances in general consist of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, id nitrogen ; and vegetables consist of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, rarely with nitrogen, ihis simplicity of composition, and both classes being formed nearly of the same elements, . the reason why one class can serve as nutriment for the other, upon the principle which e have already explained. Many animals feed solely upon vegetables, and man is ippable of subsisting upon them alone, at least for a time : but he must select such as tontain some nitrogen as the most nutritive, to which he adds animal food, which always ontains a large proportion. 11731. Siiice animal food contains all the four elements which we have occasion for, titrogen included, and from this chemical consideration alone, we might suppose that it ould afford more powerful nourishment than vegetables, which we know to be the case. the same manner, likewise, animal bodies, when decomposed, serve, in part, as food rr plants, when given in the state of manure. In short, it is easy to perceive that < B materials of animals and of vegetables are convertible one into the other, by nature, ■ th consisting of the same elements. 11732. This view of the subject is extremely useful, as it wiU guard us against falling ico an error not uncommon. Since we stated above that the elementary principles are I seolutely uniform and unchangeable in their nature, there cannot be any which are <vays of an animal, nor others that are, always and necessarily, of a vegetable nature; , t the same particle of oxygen or hydrogen which one day formed part of a vegetable , i>.y, at another period, compose a portion of an animal. We perceive, indeed, through . creation, these different applications of the same matter continually taking place. , Jgetables are the food of animals, and, being decomposed into their first or elementary , inciples by digestion, conduce to their nourishment and growth. AnimaLs, in their . -n, either serve as the food of a higher class of animals, or, when they die, contribute by . ng decomposed and mixed in the soil, in part, to the support of tlie vegetable tribe'. - il7.'i3. H hct/ier man was intended In/ nature to feed on animals as well as rcrjetables is a ■; 'stion that has frequently been agitated. It lias been maintained by some, that in the , liest ages he lived solely upon vegetables, and that his devouring the flesh of animals 1 -s the result of degeneracy. His anatomical structure, Iiowever, appears to throw liglit