MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. 1135 Chap. 11. reduced to the race-horse, the hunter, the hackney riding or road Iiorse, the Galloway, and the pony. Draught horses are the heavy draught horse or dray horse, waggon, coach, chariot, and gig horses. 6739. The English race-horse possesses his most valuable qualities of great speed in consequence of his descent from the Arabian, Persian, or Barb. The term of thorough- bred has reference to his origin, but it is not perfectly definite : it is generally supposed to mean that both sire and dam can be traced to eastern parentage ; but it may be consi- dered doubtful whether many of our race-horses can be proved to belong strictly to this class. The " Stud Book," which is the chief authority for the pedigree of horses, traces all the most famous racers to some eastern origin; or it traces them back to a certain extent, ending with a known racer the origin of whom is lost in obscurity : but it is sup- posed by some that several of our best racers ai-e derived from our native horses improved by judicious crossing. A horse is said to have blood, when in his pedigree it can be shown that he has derived his origin in any degree from a thorough-bred horse. If he has been produced by a racer and a common mare, he is called half-bred. Hoi'se races were very early among the English sports, and though at first pursued without any direct view to the improvement of the animal, they have ultimately proved useful, by drawing the attention of the weiilthy classes to the subject, and by preserving the purity of blood, or practising judicious crossing. By the most nutritious food and duly-apportioned exer- cise during his training for the courses, not only his speed but his bodily powers have been increased, and a breed of horses has been produced unrivalled in the world for symmetry of form, swiftness of progression, and durability under exercise. ' The Darby Arabian was the parent of our best racing stock; Jle was purchased by Mr. Darby at Aleppo, and was bred in the plains of Palmyra. His immediate descendant was the Flying Childers, so called from his breeder Mr. Childers, of Devonshire : the fleetness of this horse was so great that he moved over a space equal to 83i feet in a second ; some say a mile in a minute. After him Eclipse, Highflyei-, Matchem, Hambletonian, and others have contributed to keep up the reputation of the English racer, which has been known to beat some of the best of the Arabian breed on their native ground. 6740. The htintcr is produced from a thorough-bred, or horse of entire blood, as it is called, and a mare of good quality; or sometimes from a mare of blood and an English horse of the best kind. This variety of the horse is therefore a combination of the speed of the Arabian with the strength and durability of the native animal; and the English breed is now much esteemed in every country of Europe. The real hunter is kept in the stable, and is attended with great care : the principle of training, or preparing him for his work, which is an affair of considerable time and diflaculty, is the same with that of the racer, viz. to get rid of all superfluous fat and flesh without too much lowering the animal; and particularly to bring him by dint of exercise into good wind, and accustome him to the full trial of his powers, without overstraining or injuring him. Occasionally it happens that a farmer's horse worked in the day, with a feed or two of corn, and turned out at night, with an open stable or shed to run into if it pleases, is nearly as active and enduring for one day's sport as those which are carefully trained and confined to the stable during the hunting season ; yet, if tried for a day or two, he will infallibly show an inferiority in wind and bearing fatigue, though he will much better resist the severity of cold weather than the pampered and stabled animal. It is a remarkable fact, that both the racer and hunter fully share the enthusiasm of the rider. AVithout whip or spur, he will generally exert his energies to the utmost to beat his opponent; and several instances are mentioned where his natural ardour has been evinced in the straggle; even when, after hard work in racing, he has been turned into the park to enjoy himself for life, he has been known to feel an irresistible desire of joining in the chace, on hearing the distant cry of the hounds. 6741. The old English hackney, now little known, was the origin, with improvement, of our best saddle horses, whether for the road or farmer. He has been frequently con- sidered as indigenous, although it is most probable that the breed has sprung from a judicious culture of the small native horse with Norman, German, or Flemish, and thus improved in size and strength for the purpose of carrying hacks, for which the horse was formerly employed extensively. 6742. Tlie improved hackney, road horse, or roadster, besides the advantage of being in all probability partly descended from some of the best horses of the Continent, has also frequently some of the blood of the racer, but less of that tlian the hunter ; and tlie pro- portion he should have will depend upon the kind of work he is to perform. A very good road horse is even more difficult to meet with than even a hunter, for which there are several reasons. The price of a hackney, or horse of all work, is so low, that he who is so fortunate as to possess a good one will not part with him, on account of his real utility and the little chance of procuring another equal to him, for it is by mere accident alone that he is to be obtained. He must likewise be free from certain faults that may be overlooked in the hunter. The latter may start; may be awkward in his walk or even in