18 Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. of a mansion to be built may be good, yet the interior may not be approved of; but in that case it is very possible to design another elevation to the same plan, or some judi- cious alterations may be made. It is too often the case, that, in order to produce an agreeable elevation, or exterior, the architect sacrifices the convenience of the interior. Alterations of a plan may be easily made upon paper; and if every person could be taught to draw plans—a thing of very easy accomplishment — we might expect con- siderable architectural improvements, as far,-at least, as convenience is concerned. The following hints, respecting the qualities or requisites of various apartments, are in- tended to assist those who may make the attempt of designing plans of domestic buildings. It is by no means supposed, that even a very extensive establishment must contain all the apartments here enumerated : a selection from them will, in most cases, be sufficient. 45. Porch or Portico. — Some contrivance for shelter should mark the entrance to a private dwelling; and this is usually effected by a porch or portico, the former consisting of a recess, and the latter of projecting columns supporting an entablature. The style of these must be regulated by that of the rest of the building and the taste of the architect; but the porticoes before the entrance, which have been often adopted in modern English mansions, as well as in those of other countries, consisting of lofty columns of the height of two stories, appear inconsistent with the obvious purposes of utilitj', and are too osten- tatious to be sanctioned by good taste ; it is also an objection to them, that besides being uselessly expensive, they unavoidably darken the windows of the upper story. This kind of portico is evidently an injudicious attempt to apply the front of an antique temple to a domestic residence, without considering the different destinations and characters of the tvyo edifices. The original use of a portico of lofty columns among those ancient nations from whom it was borrowed, was to promenade beneath ; and they were accordingly attached to and surrounded temples, into the interior of which the mass of the people were not admitted ; or they consisted of colonnades in various places for walking in: but four or six columns placed in front of private dwellings cannot even be supposed to have the same object, and it is evidently raised as ornament only, though misapplied. 46. Entrance Hall. — If the mansion be large, a spacious entrance hall, or, as it is some- times called, the Vestibule, has a good effect: but in a small house, the hall and staircase are usually thrown into one, which, besides occupying less room where space can ill be spared, has the advantage that both may be warmed together. The floor is frequently laid with stone or marble ; and mosaic wotild be elegant. 47. Staircases. — The size of the principal staircase, and the part of the building where it is placed, affect considerably the convenience of the residence. Sometimes it is too large for the rooms; and, in other instances, its smallness gives an air of meanness. In large houses, the staircase is usually placed near the middle of the plan, and is lighted by a skylight; but in small houses it is on one side that it may have the benefit of windows. Access to the staircase should be easy and obvious to all, and it shoiild likewise afford free communication to all the rooms to which it leads. The back staircase, on the con- trary, should be more concealed, being chiefly intended for the servants. The principal staircase should always, if possible, be of stone: and it were well if the other staircase were made of the same material, in case of fire, and to lessen the noise from feet. 48. Breakfast Room. — Except in large houses, there is seldom a separate breakfast room, the dining room being generally used for this purpose. But if there be space, a breakfast room, looking to the east, will be found agreeable ; and it should, if possible, communicate by glass doors with the garden, consei-vatory, or lawn. 49. Dining Boom. — This should be placed so that the way to it from the kitchen is easy, and yet so that it is not in the least annoyed by noise or odour from the latter. If possible there should be an adjoining room for servants, and to collect dishes and dining apparatus in, that time may not be lost in bringing them in ; and it will be useful to have there a steam table to keep dishes hot. A good deal of ingenuity is requisite in con- triving a comfortable dining room, in arranging the approaches to it, and connectmg it with the drawing room. Steam or hot waCer have the great advantage of warming it equally in every part; and the situation of the sideboard should be judiciously fixed. A method first practised at the Caff Meclmniqne in Paris, of raising the dishes up by machinery, and now frequently used in coffee-houses and taverns in London, might be adopted with advantage in some private houses. An instance is known in London, where the dinner is brought up from the kitchen upon an inclined plane. 50 Drawing /^oom. —This apartment is usually that which is fitted up with greater elegance than any other in the building. Tlie windows are generally made to come down to the floor, with French sashes, and the walls are ornamented in a tasteful manner with painting or rich ornamental papering. The style of the whole should be ively and cheerful; and a well-designed chimney fire-place is most congenial with English habits and feelings Few drawing rooms are without some ornaments of sculpture or painting: and good taste is evinced in their selection : much of the trumpery toys often seen there