iChap. II. WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. 9G3 3 Q 2 beauty and perfection. At the former place, blacks are admirably dyed; and at the latter, tthe wool is still dyed in a superior style, especially for blues. .'>6.')7. The goodness of cloth comists : 1. in the fineness and softness ofthe wool ;2. in the clearness, richness, and 1 beautv ofthe colour; 3. in the yarn beingevenly spun, always observing that the warp be closer twisted, and one- ; fourtli smaller than tlie woof; 4. in the cloth having been well wrought and beaten on the loom, so as to be ! in every part close and compact; 5. in being milled or fulled evenly, clean scoured, and of a proper thick- mess or substance; 6 in being well dressed, so that the hair or nap of the wool be fully and evenly drawn out land ranged on the surface, and in being shorn close, yet without laying the ground or threads bare ; 7. in its ; not beini; over-stretched iu the raclc, or pulled farther than is necessary to set it smooth, and bring it to its J just leu'Tth and breadth ; lastly, in the cloth itself appearing smooth and neat on tlie face, free from small tknobs, spots, and other imperfections ; in being firm, yet pliable, and feeling sol't and fine to the touch. 5658. Ill makiiiy mixed cloths, wool of the different colours being weighed out in their rrequisite proportions, are first shaken together ; they are then further mixed by being ^well turned in the wool mill; and by being afterwards'twice passed through the scribbling cengine instead of once, they are generally found sufficiently intermixed. The dyeing of cloth is a subject on whicli we do not purpose to enter in this place ; but something will be i found on the subject under " Dyeing," Book XVII. Chap. II. We shall only observe that the most perma- inent colour is produced when the dyeing process is performed on the wool before it is woven. Cloth made in t this manner is termed wool-dyed cloth ; whereas cloth dyed after weaving is called piece-dyed. Black cloth ! being very much worn, it is useful to know that there is a very great difference in the durability of the black, laccording' to the process made use of in dyeing it. The most permanent colour dyed in the wool receives a i preparation of indigo blue ; whereas what is dyed in the piece is prepared with logwood, and the colour is i very fugitive ; though it looks well at first, it will, after a little wear, turn to a rusty black or grey. To dis- ! tiniiuisii between such black cloths as have a permanent dye and those which will become rusty and brown after -1 a little wear, provide a little pretty strong solution of oxalic acid in water in a phial ; moisten the cork well ■ with the solution, and press it firmly against the piece of cloth to be examined before pnrchase. If the dye is 1 permanent, in consequence ofthe use of indigo, the spot that was moistened will, in a few minutes, appear of a i^greenish olive colour ; but if the black be fugitive, the spot will become of a dusky orange or fawn colour. Formerly the west of England was the principal locality for the manufacture of super- ffine cloths; but of late Leeds, where, some years ago, only second cloths were made, ' has become the chief place for the best; and through the use of so much machinery, the [price of superfine cloth has been reduced fifty per cent. Fine cloths may now be pur- ochased for V2s. a yard, that would formerly have cost 24s. 5659. The worsted or long wool manufacture is very different from that of cloths. 'Worsted stuffs require a fine smooth yarn, which shall have little or no tendencj' to ^shrink, curl, or felt when woven. Hence the fibres must be disposed as nearly as pos- ssible in parallel lines by the operation of the comb already described, instead of being t-entangled and crossed by carding, as is required for making cloth. Worsted yarn for vwarp and weft requires to be even, slender, and hard. The qualities most required in this kind of wool are length and soundness of fibre ; tthe fineness ofthe hair is a secondary quality, required only in certain kinds of goods. The first process in the worsted factory where stuffs are made, is to clean the wool I thoroughly, to render it fit for the comber, by washing it with soap and water ; after •jwhich it is spread out upon the floor and dried. The next operation is to comb it, in lorder to bring the fibres straight. The old process of wool-combing was this: the wool was oiled, and was fii-st drawn ')upon the teeth of the wool-comb, with the hand, until the comb was sufficiently loaded; tthe comb was then placed upon the knee of the comber, and another comb of a similar kkind was drawn through it — an operation which is repeated till all the hairs or fibres ■were brought in one direction. This process required considerable strength, and was -generally carried on in rooms which were much heated, because it was necessary that the combs should be kept hot, that they might easily be drawn through the oiled wool; and 'the workman had a pot made of clay, with holes in its sides, in which he heats them to a 1 certain temperature. At present wool-combing is chiefly performed by machinery. The lifirst invention of a wool-combing machine was made in 1790, by the Rev. Dr. Cartwright; : and patents have been taken out for others, which, owing to the economy of time and nmaterial which they produce, have almost wholly superseded combing by hand. 5660. Worsted was formerly always spun by hand, as we have already mentioned, as it ^still is in some places ; but when the method of spinning cotton by rollers invented by 'Arkwright was introduced, it was soon applied to the spinning of worsted yarn; and at [present in factories it is all spun by machinery, nearly in the same manner as cotton. Sect. IV. DESCRIPTION OF THE PRINCIPAL WOOLLEN FABRICS. 5661. Cloths are the most important articles in the woollen manufacture. Broad cloths aare the stoutest and best, and are seven quarters wide ; they are of various degrees of lifineness, superfine, second, and inferior. Narrow cloths are half the width of the last, or ■ three quarters, or seven-eighths. Ha/jit cloths are a lighter and thinner kind, generally -seven quarters wide. Royal cachmcrc is used for summer coating, and is a fine narrow • cloth made of Saxon wool in worsted weft.