Book I. 40 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. plan, section, and perspective view, is where a very strong beam, a b, called a girdn, is used to shorten the bearing, when the size of the room is too large for binding joists alone. In very large rooms, where a girder, consisting of a single piece of timber, would ncjt sustain the weight without being somewhat bent, it is stiffened by what is termed being trussed. The usual truss consists of two pieces of oak, placed at an angle, on the same principle as the rafters of a roof, and inserted between the two halves of the girder, sawn down through the middle, and afterwards bolted together with the truss between, as at c. The whole is then put down upon the walls, as at « i in the plan, and acts as a single very stiff piece. Other modes of trus- sing are in use. Into this girder the binding joists d e, and f ff, are framed, and upon them are placed the bridging joists, the ceiling joists being beneath as in the section h i, and perspective view B. 143. Tlie scantlings, or thickness, of the floor timbers are regulated by the building act. No joists of any floor, or rafters of any roof, or quarters of any partition, are permitted to be framed more than twelve inches apart; and no joists of any floor shall have a bear- ing of more than fifteen feet, and no beams or girders of any floor shall be laid so that the joists bearing thereon shall have a longer bearing than twelve feet. The scantUngs of floor timbers are to be as follows : Joists with a bearing of, 6 feet to 8 feet shall be at least 6J inches deep, and 2 inches thick, 8 — 10 — 8 2 10 — 12 — 9 12 — 15 — 10 ■^2 Beams and girders with a bearing of 9 feet to 12 shall be at least 9 6 12 — 15 — 10 7 15 — 18 — 11 8 18 — 21 — 12 9 ["shallbe cut,re-" 21 — 24-1 versed and bolt- Us 10 (_ ed, and at least J 144. TJie floors of viany kitchens and other offices in the basement story are paved with stone, for which Yorkshire slabs are generally used; but where greater comfort is required in a small house, the floors are laid with boards nailed on joists, called ground joists or sleepers, which however should never lie on the ground, but should always be supported hollow upon brick walls a foot in height, to prevent the floors from being damp, which they are sure to be when the joists are laid upon the earth, the consequence of which is their decay in a short time. Ground joists are best of oak. Wood should be avoided as much as possible in the basement story: the skirtings are sometimes made of slate, cut and ground smooth for the purpose: this material is capable of being advantageously applied in many parts instead of wood ; or some kind of hard stucco may be used. 145. What is termed puggivg the floors is very useful as a security against fire, and to prevent sound being heard through them. Slips of wood of an inch square are nailed on the insides of all the joists, two inches from the bottom, and other similar slips, three inches from the top; a layer of short pieces of laths is laid between each pair of joists upon these slips, and is covered by a coat of lime and hair: by tliese means hollow spaces are left between tlie flooring boards and the ceiling below, which confines the air sufficiently to deaden the sound, and in a great measure to prevent the spreading of com- bustion. 14f>. Partitions Some partitions are entirely of brick, where strength requires it, or where a short bearing for tlie timbers of floors is necessary ; but as these take up much room, and'are expensive, the most usual kind in ordinary houses, consists of upright pieces of wood sawn into small scantlings, technically called (jitartcrinti, placed about a foot apart, and covered with lath and plaster. The spaces between the quartei-s are sometimes filled