MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. cuAi>. ir. 11.37 : Norway, it seems not improbable that they might liave come originally from Scandinavia. They are seldom above twelve hands high, and sometimes only nine. They are extremely \ well formed, but inferior to the Galloway. G7oO. The Shetland pony, called Sheltie, an inhabitant of the Shetland islands, is a dis- I tinct breed, and the most diminutive of our horses, being sometimes not seven and a half : hands high and rarely exceeding nine and a half. He is a most hardy animal in his ; native place, subsisting on what he can pick up in that barren country without any shel- ttered habitation ; and often, even in winter, obliged to find his own food by scraping off ' the snow, or resorting to the shore to eat sea-weeds; his body covered with long hau-, and : his mane and tail rough and shaggy. His strength is immense, and one will carry a man and his wife for miles to church on a Sunday. He is well formed and perfectly docile. ' When transported into England, and submitted to the process of the cui-ry-comb and the . care of the groom, he becomes one of the most beautiful of the species, and. may some- : times be seen harnessed to a low gig or chair in some of our parks. Several of them are 1 now rimning in Windsor Park. Sect. II. Fig. 893. NAMES or THE EXTERNAL PARTS OF A HORSE. 67.51. For want of knowing accurately the names of the various parts of a horse, I mistakes arc often made in giving or receiving directions, or in conversing about them, ; by those who have not been much used to horses. In order to understand these clearly, i it is necessary to have some knowledge of the bones, and we therefore give a wood-cut of 1 the skeleton, and another of the external figure of the animal, both to the same scale. To . show the utility of the former, the reader may try to understand the horse without it, and he will then perceive the use of adding this farther elucidation : but we shall commence with the skeleton, 893. 6752. In the skeleton xve may observe: a b the spine, or back bone, composed of a number of joints or vertebraj, of which there are eighteen in the back, called dorsal vertebras ; six at the loins, termed lumbar vertebraj; five at the pelvis, or haunch, called sacral verte- brae ; and from eight to thirteen caudal vertebrse, forming the tail. At b are several processes or projections from the vertebrse, just above the shoulder, which form what is termed the withers. It is to be observed that similar pro- cesses, though not so long, project from all the vertebrae, and that it is those which appear as a sharp ridge on the back of a lean horse, c c are the ribs which are attached to the vertebrse of the skin, and in front to the sternum, or breast bone, g. d are the vertebrae forming the neck, and named cervical vertebrse; these are by farriers called rack bones, e is the skull. / is the scapula or shoulder blade, h is the humerus, or arm bone, so concealed by strong muscles as to be overlooked by the general observer ; and in consequence the next bone, i, is commonly called the arm bone, which is anatomically the radius, i is the fore-arm of horsemen, but the radius of anatomists, k is the knee, but answering to our carpus or wrist: the knee joint is formed of seven small bones. I is the cannon or shank bone, forming what is generally termed the leg ; but it is to be observed that anatomists, in comparing the structure with that of the human body, consider this single bone as in the place of our metacarpal bones, or those of the palm of the hand, as if all our metacarpal bones were united into one. m is the upper pastern bone ; n the smaller pastern bone, o is the coffin bone. These bones of the foot will be afterwards described more at large, p is the haunch, consisting of three portions, the ilium, ischium, and the pubis, q is tlie femur of anatomists : this articulates with the pelvis, and its strong head is called the whirlbone. r is the patella, a small bone, called by farriers the stifle, s is the thigh bone of horsemen, but the tibia or leg bone of anatomists, t is the leg bone of horse- men, but the fibula of anatomists, u is the upper or larger hind pastern, v is the lower or smaller "hind pastern, w is the hind coffin bone. 67.53. The following are the names of the e.xternal parts of the horse. Jig. 894. The whole is divided into the head, neck, trunk, and extremities. The head and neck are in general sufficiently well known; but we may observe that the line of the face is sometimes nearly straight, but occasionally a little arched, a is the withers : a b, the line of the shoulders extending from the withers to the breast, b, in front. It is by the muscles of the shoulders 4 D