PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 120S Book XXVL into the treatment we do not intend to enter, as we are of opinion that in every severe case medical assistance is necessary. If aperients fail, the remedies, more particularly vermifuge, must be prescribed by the medical attendant. One remark may be made about the diet of children labouring under worms ; it should be very simple, and not too saccharine. Sugar itself, when taken in excess, seems in certain habits to produce worms. A nutritious diet is generally necessary, for in these cases the health is often impaired, as evidenced in the pale bloodless face, the white tongue, feeble pulse and languor of body ; indeed, such a state is often the precursor and the cause of worms; and removing it removes its sequence. Some practitioners suppose that neglecting to take salt with the food has some share in producing worms; and whether this be correct or not, it is advisable to take the usual quantity, or perhaps even a little more. There is another kind of worm, called in common language the 7145. TJireadwormiAscarides; Oxyum of medical writers). This worm makes its abode in the lowest portion of the intestinal canal; it seldom produces the severe effects ascribed to the round and tape-worms. On examining the stools, it is easily seen it is from a quarter to half an inch long, and, as its name denotes, of slender frame. These worms are easily removed for a time by injections of wai-m water, and their reproduction may generally be checked by injections of the infusion of the seeds of the Santonica (Artemisia Santonica), or of the solution of salt and water; or a good and popular remedy is solution of aloes in water. The best method of preventing them from increasing is to strengthen the frame generally, especially by the administration of the salts of iron, and a generous diet. 7146. Tlirush. — Under this name popular opinion classes several distinct though allied diseases. We shall not attempt to discriminate these, but merely describe the disease in a superficial manner. By the term " thrush " is commonly understood small white vesicles, situated within the mouth, on the tongue, and inside of the cheeks ; accompany- ing these there is generally a little derangement of the digestive organs ; a little loss of appetite, or diarrhoea : the mouth also is sore, and the child sucks with pain and difficulty. It is more common in weak and sickly children, but it may appear in the most robust. AU that is necessary for its cure is a gentle aperient; and in mild cases a lotion for the mouth, composed of borax and water, or honey, or a weak solution of nitrate of silver in water; this should be painted on gently with a camel-hair pencil; not rubbed on roughly with the finger, or with flannel, as is sometimes done by nurses. In more severe cases emetics are often useful, but to these cases a medical man should always be called in. Among the ill-fed and neglected children of the poor, and also sometimes in densely- crowded lying-in hospitals, a malignant and dangerous fever accompanies the thrush; or, to speak more correctly, of the intestinal derangement accompanying which the thrush is but a symptom. This complaint, however, is not common, and we shall not occupy any space by a description of it, as it should never be treated except by a medical man. 7147. Dentition and its consequences.—It is customary among medical men, and those whom they attend, to attribute the majority of infantile diseases to this natural process. There can be no doubt that certain diseases do arise during the progress of dentition, and appear to be referable to it, but indiscriminately to lay to its account all the complaints of childhood, as some do, is little else than a confession of ignorance. The words of a French writer, Guersent, on this subject, may be quoted in support of this opinion. " On attribue " (says he) " dans la monde, la plupart des maladies de I'enfance au travail de la dentition. La difficidtc d'observer les maladies du premier age, et le peu de con- naissances positives que nous avons sur cette partie de la pathologic, ont contribue .a emaciner cette opinion, et ce prejuge, resultat de notre ignorance, est ensuite devenu populaire comme tons les autres prejugcs du mcdecine."— Guersent, a Vartick " Dentition," du " Dictionnaire de Medecine." Before enumerating and briefly noticing the diseases commonly ascribed to dentition we shall make a few remarks on the appearances presented during the cutting of the teeth. It occasionally happens that one or two teeth are through even at birth, as was the case with Louis XIV. and with Mirabeau {Billiard, "Traite des Maladies des Enfans :" Paris, 1833, page 260.): however, the first tooth seldom appears before the seventh month after hirth. About this time the child is observed to be fond of putting its fingers, or any hard substance it can get hold of, into its mouth ; during sucking it will sometimes sud- denly throw its head away from the breast; there is an increased discharge of saliva, which trickles down from the corners of the mouth ; on looking at the gum it is seen to be swollen and rounded, and no longer to present the horny edge it possessed at an earlier period of life; by degrees the white colour of the tooth can be seen shining through it, and finally, the thinned and yielding gum is entirely removed, and the tooth rises from its socket. . This process is often assisted by lancing the gmn, which operation seems to be useful, not by dividing the gum, and thereby giving freer exit to the tooth, but by cutting through a little sac, in which originally the tooth was generated, and which, by becoming thick-