Chap. VI. ON THE MAKING OF VINEGAR. 661 U u 3 acids, according to the materials from which the vinegar is made. The formation of all these, with the exception of wood vinegar, depends upon the same general principles, although, in consequence of the varied nature of the ingredients fi'om which they are produced, the processes necessarily differ. The best vinegar is made from white wine, but ordinai'y vinegar is produced from malt. SuBSECT. 1.— Wine Vinegar. 3728. We commence with the method of preparing ivine vinegar on the Continent, not because this can be practised in English domestic economy, but because it is the most ancient, and the best mode, and likewise because our processes have been derived from it. Wine vinegar is properly the vinegar of genuine foreign wine, methodically prepared, as in Germany, France, and Italy, and does not include those which are made from cyder, malt-wines, or made wines of any description whatever. All wines, especially those of a •weak kind, either spontaneously, or by repeated fermentations, maybe converted into a kind of vinegar. Observation of the frequent and spontaneous acidity in wines, no doubt gave rise to the preparation of the more permanent and pvmgent liquid, which is obtained by a regular process, such as the following : — 3729. Method qf making wine vinegar in France Large vats, in pairs, open at top, but fitted with close move- able covers, are placed in a row, under a shed open at the south side, so as to be heated by the sunbeams by day, and exposed to the air at night. Between each pair, a capacious and strong open receiver, made of oak and well hooped, is sunk in the earth, so that the cock in each cask near the bottom may command it. In this- receiver a pump is placed, and near it a stage and a ladder for a man to ascend and work the pump, and put the covers on and off the vats ; a few feet from the bottom of each cask, a strong perforated false bottom is fixed, on which the substance, technically rape, or ferment, is placed. The rape consists of the foot-stalks of the bunches or clusters of grapes, or of the marc that has been preserved in the manner we shall afterwards describe. The use of the rape is to sour the wine, and it is disposed thus : first a layer of vine twigs is laid, some inches thick, on the perforated or grated bottom, to prevent the rape clogging up the holes, or falling through. Then the vats are filled up with wine to within about six inches of the top. This is poured over the rape, until one vat is filled, and the other half full. In two or three days, according to the temperature of the atmosphere, the vine in the half-filled vat begins to hcit and ferment, and the heat will increase for several days successively, without any appearance of the like during that time in the vessel that is full. The cock of the full vessel is then turned, imd the wine, as it flows into the receiver, is pumped over the fermenting rape, to check the fermentation, which otherwise would proceed too rapidly, and the heat excited would cnuse the spirituous part of the wine to dissipate and leave the liquor vapid." In two or three days or less time, the rape in the other vessel begins to heat and fermeut, when recourse must he had to the same means of checking the fermentation by pumping up the wine of the full vat from the receiver as before. This must be alternately done every day, and in very warm weather, once in every twelve hours. In winter it generally takes from twenty-four to thirty-six hours to heat and ferment; both vats successively augment in heat and vigour of fermentation, until the vinegar is perfected, or finally made, which is usually in about fourteen or fifteen days in summer. In winter it proceeds more slowly, and that in proportion to the coldness of the weather. During the fermentation, the full vessel must be kept always open at the top; but the half full vat should be kept accurately covered, to prevent the dissipation of the spirit of the wine by the heat and also the loss of the carbonic acid gas that is disengaged, and to cause it to re-act upon the liquor fermented by being entangled in the fluid; if both vessels are kept open, the liquor may be soured, but it will be converted into a flat instead of a sharp, pungent, strong vinegar. At the time when they pump the wine out of the full vessel a scum rises that should be taken off; and in the half full vessel there ought to be left a hole, stopped up with a plug occasionally to give vent, and examine the progress of the operation, which also keeps in the volatile acescent vapour generated by the fermentation ; the latter is known to be completed when the hissing noise in the half full vessel ceases. 3730. It will improve the vinegar, after it is made, to let it stand some time on the rape. If the weather or climate is warm, wine vinegar may be made in the summer season in the open air ; if cold artificial heat within doors will be necessary. * Since in casks that have never been used for this purpose, vinegar is made more slowly and with greater difficulty than in those which have previously served this purpose, the latter are preferred and are called in France mires de viuaigrc, mothers of vinegar. 3731. In theacctous as wellas in the vinous fermentation, an intestine motion, a swelling, a hissing noise, and an ebullition, may be perceived; but the heat produced by the latter'is scarcely sensible, whereas that produced by the former is very considerable. The vapour also which comes from vinegar is not so vinous as that of fermenting wine. 3732. Vinegar does not deposit tartar as wine does, even though it has been made with wine that has not deposited its tartar, which proves that this substance is decomposed in the process. 3733. Wine is aho converted into vinegar without the additions mentioned above, simply by adding wine, especially when on the fret, to vinegar already made, and exposing it to a proper heat. The casks are always kept nearly full, by taking out of them at intervals about a third or a fourth part, replenishing them with wine, and again bringing the contents to the state of vinegar. In this manner, the best white wme vinegar of Orleans is made. In France vinegar is usually made from poor wines, or from such as have become too sour. Wine vinegar is considered purer than any other kind, and it is generally stronger than the usual malt vinegars of this country. They have there both white and red vinegar made from white and red wines. Red vinegar may be deprived of its colour by making it pass through animal charcoal produced by calcining bones out of contact of the air till they are black ; the product is not, however, pure animal charcoal, but it contains a large quantity of this .substance together with a little phosphate and carbonate of lime ; it is therefore necessary afterwards to digest the burnt bones in dihited muriatic acid to remove their earthy salts, which otherwise would be taken up by tiie vineiT'ir R..ri