iChap. V. EXAMPLES OP VARIOUS KITCHEN FIRE-PLACES. 853 4S15. Brown's cooking apparatus {fig. 753.) is a late invention of this kind; and the rroasting part has at least novelty and ingenuity to recommend it. The meat to be roasted [ iis hung in a niche formed of a screen of tin, shown at a, and placed before the vertical bbars of the fire, -which are seen at o. The tube, b, of the screen is inserted into the cir- ccular aperture, c, below the fire; the meat is turned round by the current of air that ffeeds the fire ; for -when the fire burns, and is wanted for roasting, air enters by this aaperture to supply it; but before it reaches the fire, it must pass through the tube b, and iin doing so it acts upon a vertical fan wheel placed below the dripping pan, and sets it in amotion; the axis of this fan acts upon another wheel, which has its axis upright, rising iinto the screen, and carrying upon its upper end a circular disk. To the circumference ix)f this disk are suspended one or more pieces of meat, which of course revolve with the aaxis, and present their different sides to the fire in succession; and this motion must ccontinue as long as the fire burns, because so long wiU a current of air enter by the tube, aand act upon the fan wheel; the motion will be faster or slower, as the fire burns more oor less briskly. The heat of the fire, coming through between the upright bars, together »with what is sent off by the heated iron front, and the strong reflection from the inside of tlhe screen, is said to be suflicient to roast the meat. Over the fire is a hot plate ; tf is an ooven ; e is a hot closet; / is a boiler, and A is a broiling place in the hot plate, all heated bby the same fire. The flame and smoke pass entirely under the hot plate, and of course oover the top of the oven in the direction of the arrows; part of it also passes beneath the coven; and they then turn downwards and go under the bottom of the boiler, which eextends down as far as the dotted lines. The smoke then ascends by the side of the bboiler,/, as shown by the arrows, and finally passes into the chimney. The hot closet, e, ias warmed by the hot smoke passing over it, When broiling and not roasting is required, flthe fire-door must be shut, and also the aperture c, while the aperture h is opened. The lair to supply the fire then comes in through h, and of course draws downwards; over tlhis aperture the gridiron for broiling is placed; or if quick boiling be wanted, the kettle ias put over it. Ordinary boiling and stewing are performed upon the hot plate ; and it would be easy to add a steam apparatus. The throat of the chimney is closed, except a Hquare aperture to let off occasional vapours ; and this may be shut, when required, by a iHiding plate. When neither roasting nor broiling are going on, the aperture c is closed, land a drawer, i, is pulled out a little ; this supplies air to the fire, and will likewise serve Mo regulate the draught, so that the fire may be kept for a long time only just a-light. AAny kind of coal may be burned ; but the best fuel is a mixture of anthracite and common cecal. 4816. Wright's kitchen range (fig. 754.) has the fire inclosed by a door filled by plates of smica, improperly called talc. The heat comes through the mica, suflicient, it is said, to woast meat placed in a tin niche, on a large Dutch oven, with a spring jack attached. TThe fire also heats a hot plate placed over it, having an aperture in the centre for boiling la square tea-kettle, or for broiling; on one side is an oven, and on the other a boiler, bboth heated by the flame and smoke passing round them in flues constructed in the iron- nrork, while meat and vegetables may be steamed in vessels supplied with steam from the