80 Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. manner. The back of the stove, against which the smoke rises, is hollow, and contains partitions in the manner shown at A, fig. 68., which represents the hollow back with the d Fig. 67. Fig. 68. front plate removed. The cold air from without enters through a flue at b (see section), passes beneath the hearth c, and thence into the chambers at the back of the fire, seen in the section at b and at A. After winding through these chambers in the direction of the dotted line in A, it becomes heated, and issues through apertures in the sides near the top of the stove seen in fig. 67., but the throat of the chimney being closed as at /, it comes into the room. The method of blowing the fire is by an opening in the iron hearth in front of the fire, partly covered by a little inclined plane, k, which directs the current of air that rises through it, against the fire. The fire is therefore partly fed by this air, and does not abstract so much from the apartment, as would be the case were it wanting; it also reduces in the same proportion the usual current which malces towards the fire in ordinary grates. This stove is evidently not well adapted for the purposes of English cookery, and the in- elegance of its appearance entirely unfits it for our best apartments, consequently it is not adopted in this country. A few have been tried in farm-houses, but it is inferior to other constructions. 357. The American or Nott's stove, fig. 69., is more remarkable for the novelty of its appearance than for any important advan- tage. The fire is contained in the pedestal, which is lined with fire brick. The bottom of the grate is semi-cylindrical, and being revolvable on an axis, is intended, by a rocking motion performed by a winch at the side, to shake out the ashes, or to empty the grate altogether into the ash-pit. The coals are put in at the top of the column, lying over the fire after it is kindled, and sink down as they are consumed, enough being put in at once to serve the whole day. To afford a view, or rather a peep, at the fire, a piece of mica (erroneously called talc) is inserted in the front, that substance not being liable to crack with the heat like glass. Many of these have been put in shops and similar places where there is a free circulation of air, and where they have rather an elegant appearance ; but they have the usual faults of iron stoves, from becoming much heated. 358. Dr". ArnotCs stove, fig. 70., though constructed of iron, is said by the'inventor to be much less injurious to the air than iron stoves generally are, because the metal is never made very hot, there being an internal brick chamber to contain the fire, and the combustion of the fuel going on very slowly. Tiie following is the description by Dr. Arnott in his own words. " The outline section, a bdc, represents a box formed of sheet iron, and divided by the partition gh into two chambers, communicating freely at the top and bottom. The letter e marks the fire-box or furnace, formed of iron lined with fire-brick, and resting on a close ash-pit, of which b marks the door, and near which door there is a valved opening, by which the air enters, to feed the fire when the door is shut; i marks the door of the stove, by which the fuel is introduced : c is the chimney-flue. AVhile the stove-door and ash- pit are open, a fire may be lighted, and will bum in the fire-box just as in"a common grate, and the smoke will rise and pass away by the chimney, mixed with much colder air, rushing in by the stove-door; but if the stove-door and ash-pit Fig.m.