iCuAP. II. FRENCH COOKING TERMS, ETC. EXPLAINED. 917 3 N 3 Entremets. — Dishes served at the second and third courses. Emiiice. — A mince of some kind of meat. Feuilletaye. — Puff paste. Friture. — A frying-pan. Farce d quenelles. — Forced or farced meats. Gliize. — Reduced consomme, used to cover the meats of made dishes. Glace. — White of egg beaten with powdered loaf sugar. Godiveuu.— A veal forcemeat. All gras. —• When a dish is to be dressed with meat gravy. Gratiner. — To make the surface crisp of any dish and to give it a grilled taste. Hors d'oeuvre. — A small dish served during the first course. Larduns. — Meat cut for larding. Larding. — Meat, poultry, &c. having lardons of bacon or other articles drawn through I the flesh by means of the larding pin. Larding pin is an instrument as sharp as a needle at one end and like a port crayon . at the other. The lardon is entered at the square and open end ; the sharp end is then I passed through the meat, and in drawing the instrmnent out, it is so contrived as to ; release the lardon from its hold, and which is left drawn into the flesh of the article to be 1 larded. Liaison — A thickening for soups and gravies formed of yolks of eggs. Au maigre. — Soups prepared without meat. Marinade. — A pickle into which meat, fisli, or poultry is put for several hours, some- I times for days, previous to its being cooked. A marinade is composed of diflierent I flavouring ingredients combined with vinegar, sometimes with oil, according to the dish 1 to be prepared. Au nalurel. — Anything simply boiled. Nouilles. — An Italian paste resembling macaroni, hut flat instead of being piped. Noix de veau. — The large and fleshy part of the leg of veal attached to the udder. Passer To fry lightly. Figne. — Larded on the surface only. Panieres. — Everything dressed with a coating of crumbs of bread and egg. Poeling. — Take a pound of beef suet, one of fresh butter, one of very fat bacon ; cut the suet and bacon into large dice, and put them in a stew-pan with two pounds of veal, ' cut in the same manner; fry them till the veal becomes white; moisten with three pints ' of clear boiling water, a handful of salt, a bay leaf, a few sprigs of thyme, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of parsley and green onions. Let the whole boil quietly till the onion is done ; strain it through a sieve, and set it by for use. Poele is employed to make everything boiled in it look white, and to acquire a relishing taste ; it will keep for a week. Do not boil any lean of bacon with it, or the meat boiled in it will turn red from the saltpetre used in curing the bacon. Poeling and braising are almost the same operation, but in poeling meat must be underdone, in braising overdone. Potage. — Soup or broth. En Ponle. — A particular way of trussing a fowl for the spit. Puree. — Meat, fish, or vegetables boiled to a pulp and passed through a sieve. Havigdte. — A sauce. Au rosette. — To dress a dish in the form of a rose. Salmi. — A highly-flavoured dish. Salpi^on. — A dish made of equal quantities of any and all sorts of meat and vege- tables ; these are minced and cooked separately, and warmed together when ready to serve. Saute. — To fry lightly. Singer. — To put flour into the stew-pan. Sahotier. — Tin utensils containing sand, in which are placed the moulds that are to he put into the ice-house to be frozen. Tamis A silken sieve. Toppot The fat from the water in which meat has been boiled ; it is much used in French cooking. Vanner. — To take up a sauce and turn it over quickly with a spoon.