754 ON MAKING BREAD. Book IX. up with a woollen cloth. In a few hours or more, the dough will rise; next knead up this fermented dough with the other half that was left, adding as much salt as is necessary. Leave this mass for a few hours to ferment farther and swell, and tlien make it up into loaves for tlie oven. The time required for baking, and the method of it, are the same as for " Yeast Bread," which see. It requires some experience to be able to detcrmme the exact quantity of leaven necessary ; if too little is used, the bread will be heavy; if too much leaven be employed, or if the dough be suflered to lie too long before baking, the bread will have a disa- greeable sour taste. Some use milk instead of water to wet the dough. 100 lbs., consisting of equal parts of wheat and rye, will produce from 154 lbs. to 15G lbs. of leavened bread. Since, with the exception of wheat, rye contains a greater proportion of gluten than any other corn, it is easy to be fermented, and a strong, hearty, though coarse food. 4295. Rye bread is also sometimes fermented with yeast, and then it has not the acid which leavened bread generally has. Sect. IV. BREAD FERMENTED WITH YEAST, AND MADE BY PUBLIC BAKERS. 4296. Since it is difficult always to ferment leavened bread so as not to produce more of a sour taste than is agreeable, it was a great improvement to substitute yeast as a fer- ment, the bread so produced having no unpleasant flavour, and being, at the same time, lighter. 4297. Method of making bread by the London bakers. — The baker fii-st sifts a sack of flour into the kneading trough ; he then dissolves four or five pounds of salt in a pailful of hot water ; and when this has cooled down to 84*^, from three to four pints of yeast are added, blended well with the water, and passed through a sieve. A hole is now made in a heap consisting of one-third of the sack of flour, and the whole gradually worked up in a small trough with the water he has prepared into the consistence of stifi' batter, quite free from lumps. The surface of this is made level, some flour is sprinkled over, and it is covered over with sacks or cloths ; this is called setting the sponge. In this situation it is left for an hour or two ; a fermentation takes place, carbonic acid is disengaged, which, had the mass been semi-liquid, would have risen to the surface in bubbles, that would have broken ; but, from the viscidity of the dough, the air, though it forms cells, is confined, and the sponge swells to double its original size. If this was suffered to go on, the air would at last escape, and the sponge will fall down. When the baker perceives that the process has advanced sufiiciently far, he mixes with the sponge all the rest of his sack of flour, and incorporates the whole together by a laborious course of kneading for upwards of an hour, and the mass is then called dough. This setting the sponge is useful by way of precaution, in order to try how the yeast will act in raising the dough, without using up the whole quantity ; as any necessary alteration can be more easily made in this stage of the process than after the whole of the flour is mixed up. If the dough is too thin, the bubbles of gas would all escape, and the raising would subside ; and if the baker were to suS"er the fermentation to be completed before baking, the bread would pass into the sour state. The baker, therefore, does not carry on the fermentation all at once, but adds the sponge at twice or three times, and also the flour. The perfect kneading is essential, that the fermentation may be equal. The dough is now left to itself for an hour and a half, with a little flour sprinkled all over it, and it is likewise covered with a woollen cloth; during this time the fermenta- tion continues, and spreads through the whole mass. It is then subjected to a second but less laborious kneading, that the vesicular structure should be equally distributed. The dough is then cut into pieces, each being made, by weighing, of the proper size for loaves, and when shaped into proper forms for the oven, they are set aside in a warm place for some time. They are then put into the oven by a shovel for the purpose, and left in it about two hours and a half, or three hours; when taken out, they are turned with their bottom upwards to prevent them from splitting, and are covered up with a blanket to cool slowly. The loaves, when they come out of the oven, are about twice the size they were when they went in. 4298. Kneading the dough in some places is performed by machinery, which is certainly superior to the usual mode of employing the hands, and sometimes the feet of bakers. At Paris and Genoa mechanism is occasionally employed ; and at Geneva, it is said that the bakers are compelled by law to send their dough to be kneaded at a public mill constructed for that purpose. Various dough-making machines have been patented here, of which that by Hebert is one of the best. A kneading machine, simple, cheap, and requiring no art to use it, is employed by many French bakers ; and it is desirable, for the sake of cleanli- ness, that it should be introduced here. It is figured in the " Dictionnaire Technolo- gique." 4299. Methods of raising the dough without fermentation.—The chief advantage of the process of fermentation in making bread being the production of gas which formed numer- ous cells that give that peculiar porous texture seen in the crumb of a loaf, any other pro- cess that will produce a similar texture would answer to make good bread. Accordingly,