1162 Book XXV. THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. glazed with salt, were such made, Tvould be free from this objection, as also -n'ould be porcelain ; but the latter is far too expensive for common use. Slate is sometimes formed into coolers, and answers very well, except that the cement at the angles is apt to give way sometimes. 6892. 77(6 i7iost perfect cleanliness is essential in every operation of the dairy. All the vessels in which milk is put, as well as the cheese, must be scalded, scrubbed, and rinsed, and dried every time they are used. If any vessel is neglected and tainted with soured milk, it acts as a lemon upon milk put into it, and this is sometimes difficult to remove, and perhaps may require boiling with a little potash or soda, and washing very well afterwards in hot water, that none of the alkali may remain to give a disagreeable taste. Some recommend soap instead of alkali, as it leaves no taste behind. Dairy-maids should be extremely clean in their persons and dress, and should never enter the milk-room ■with a dirty apron covered with hairs from the cow-house. 6893. The management of a dairy should be conducted with the greatest regularity, and every operation should be performed at the proper time. It has been observed that hastening or delaying any of these will cause butter or cheese to be of an inferior quality, even from milk, that, under other circumstances, would have produced the best. CHAP. rv. THE MAKING OF BUTTER. G894. The chemical principles of milk and butter, as well as the varieties of each, have been explained in Book VII. Chap IV., and to that we refer the reader ; we propose now to give the details of the usual method of making butter. 689.'). Butter is made either from the cream alone or from the milk unskimmed. When quantity rather than quality is desired, the latter method is practised, but the former fur- nishes the best butter. 6896. Wlien butter is to be made from tfte cream alone the milk is skimmed two or three times till it will yield no more cream, and the barrel or other deep vessel into which it is put should have a spigot with a piece of close silver-wire gauze over the aperture on the inside for drawing off, from time to time, any thin serous part of the milk which may happen to be there, for, if that be suffered to remain, it would act upon the cream and injure the quality of the butter. It does not appear to have been determined exactly how long the cream should be kept before it is churned, but from three to six days is the usual time, which, however, varies among persons who make good butter, being, in a great measure, regulated by convenience. Many people imagine that no butter is of good quality except what is made from fresh cream; but this is an error, for the formation of butter only takes place after the cream has acquired a certain degree of acidity, and no butter, of even tolerable quality, can be obtained from cream that is not more than one day old. The cream from every milking should, however, be kept apart untU it becomes sour, and not be mixed up with sweet cream, at least not until the moment of churning, for the mixture occasions a fermentation which, though partly prevented by the churning, is liable to dispose the cream to become a little putrid. 'VATien, however, the cows have been fed on roots, the sooner the cream is churned the better. The best butter is made from the cream skimmed off the first time, and the second skimming will make an in- ferior butter. The practice of putting the milk of all the cows into one vessel, there to remam till the whole milking be finished, is injudicious, not only on account of the bad effect of agitation and cooling, but because it prevents the distinguishing of the best from the worst cow's milk, and using them separately where it is desirable. 6897. Particular attention should be paid to the temperature in which the milk is kept while it is tJiroiuing up the cream. It is found by experience tiiat if the heat be too great, the milk is apt to coagulate suddenly with little separation of the cream, and it becomes sour so rapidly as to injure every operation, while, on the contrary, when the milk is kept in a low temperature, the cream separates in a very slow manner and with difficulty, acquiring a disagreeable bitter taste, the butter being scarcely able to come at all, and. when obtained, is small in quantity, and poor in taste. If the cold should ever become too great in the winter season this may he remedied by artificial means; among the simplest of which is introducing a barrel of hot water closely bunged up, and placing it on the floor of the milk house, where it cools, giving out its heat very gradually ; or hot bricks may be laid down for the same purpose; a chafing-dish with burning embers is objectionable, as the air generated by charcoal is apt to prove injurious to the milk.