HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. iCnAP. VI. 29 t the species. Thus the serpentine of Anglesea is called, improperly, Mona marhle : it is ,ia beautiful stone, and was in considerable request some years ago ; but the quarries are mot worked at present. SuBSECT. 3.—Mortar and Cement. 88. Where walls have been constructed with very large and heavy blocks of stone, as was I the case with some in ancient Greece and Italy, the remains of which, called Cyclopian, :iare seen to this day, no cement was necessary, the weight of the masses being sufficient 1 to keep them from being displaced; but with bricks or stones of the ordinary size, some ocement is required to make a firm wall. In countries where bitumen is plentiful, this ssubstance has been employed, as was the case in the buildings of ancient Babylon, existing rremains of which have been described by recent travellers. But cements derived from c calcareous substances are by far the most general, and are the only ones used in this ccountry for the ordinary purposes of architecture. Our common mortar is composed of lime made into a paste with water and sand, which, ;when completely dried, becomes of a stony hardness ; and, the strength of walls depending imuch upon the excellence of this materifU, it is proper that the principles upon which its :good quality depends should be imderstood. 89. Lime, or calcareous earth, familiar by sight to every one, is never found pure in I nature, but is always combined with some other substance. Before it can be employed (for mortar, it is necessary to detach it from its combinations; and all of what is so (employed is obtained by exposing certain limestones to a strong heat, or burning I them, as it is termed, in a kiln. Limestones consist of lime combined with carbonic acid, tthe properties of which as a gas will be particularly detailed in our section on Fer- I mentation. In the limestone it is, however, in a solid state, combined with lime; and t the stone is what chemists term carbonate of lime. When a red heat is applied to lime- ^ stones, the carbonic acid separates from the calcareous earth in a gaseous state, and flies ' off, leaving the lime pure, which is then called quicklime. This quicklime differs essen- i tially from powdered limestone, and from chalk, which is also a carbonate of lime, in ! being caustic and soluble in water, which the carbonate is not. The newly-bumt caustic i lime is next to be slaked by pouring water upon it; the lumps immediately crack, fall to I pieces, and soon become a fine white powder, at the same time giving out much heat, ' which occasions abundance of steam. But the greater part of the water is absorbed, t enters into combination with the quicklime, and passes into a solid state; for instead of a 1 moist paste being the result, as might be expected, the lime remains quite dry in the state < of white powder. The union of the water with the lime forms a hydrate of lime, and is I termed by builders slaked lime. 90. Limestones are easily distinguished from other rocks, by pouring upon them a little 1 diluted acid of any kind, such as the nitric or muriatic: if an elFervescence ensues, or the 1 rapid formation of minute bubbles, the substance is limestone, the bubbles consisting of I the carbonic acid gas which has been liberated from its combination, on account of the 1 lime having a stronger attraction for the new acid than for the carbonic acid. A few 1 other minerals besides limestone will afford the same appearance of effervescence ; but as I these are not in sufficient quantity to form large rocks, this test may be considered as I practically sufficient to ascertain limestones. Although all limestones consist essentially of lime and carbonic acid, and though lime ' 1 may be obtained from them all by chemical means, yet, practically, all are not equally fit ■ for burning into lime: for instance, white or statuary marble is a very pure carbonate of ' lime; but, when heated in a kiln, it is sometimes liable to fall into a coarse powder before . ■ the carbonic acid gas can be driven off, which prevents quicklime being obtained from it. Nor is it necessary that the limestones should always be of the purest kind for this purpose; for many limestones that contain a small quantity of other substances make better lime for mortar than the purest carbonate of lime. Limestones, indeed, may be ' divided into two kinds, as far as relates to their affording lime for mortar. Those which • consist of pure, or very nearly pure, carbonate of lime ; and those which, besides lime and ' carbonic acid, contain likewise a portion of clay, iron, magnesia, and sometimes a minute quantity of other matters. The lime procured from the first is capable of making a mortar that dries hard in the air, and which, when well made and become thoroughly hard, will not afterwards soften in water; but if water be kept in contact with it before it has dried, it will never set or become hard : hence it is totally unfit for hydraulic purposes, or build- ing under water. On the contrary, all those limestones that contain a considerable pro- portion of clay, and particularly if that be ferruginous, afford, when burned, what is called hydraulic or water lime, because, when made into mortar by the addition of sand and water, such mortar sets hard even under water j on which account it is extremely valuable for building piers, docks, and similar works. An opinion is very generally entertained among builders, that the harder the limestone, the better must be the lime obtained from it by burning. But this is not strictly true: