( Chap. III. BREWING. 571 tbeen effected, the latter resulting in a great measure from the skill of the brewer. The I carbonic acid gas or fixed air, separated by the fermentation, escapes through the liquor ■ into the atmosphere, producing the appearance of ebullition, from which the process L derives its name. 3215. Having recapitulated these facts necessary to he kept in mind, lae proceed to state : that, the wort being now in the fermenting tun, a certain quantity of yeast is to be added •. to it; and it is essential that this should be fresh and of the best quality, for bad yeast I may spoil the whole brewing. 3216. TMien wort is to be fermented for strong ale, it is necessary to procure yeast from : ale of equal strength. Though strong ales cannot be fermented by the yeast procured : from weak worts, yet the yeast of ale will ferment any weaker beer. Weak beer fer- 1 ments rapidly, but the fermentation is soon over. 3217. Though yeast can be kept, yet neiv yeast is more active than old; and it is a curious I fact, that, if successive brewings in the same place are inoculated with the yeast of the I previous fermentations, the yeast will sometimes at last degenerate, in which case a supply 1 must be had from another brewery. Yeast is also liable to become putrid by keeping, like . animal matter; and the smallest quantity of this, or the least tendency to it, will inoculate ! the whole tun with its bad condition. 3218. The best yeast is that which is collected at the top, and which has become a dense I tough froth, formed when the fermentation has been a good deal advanced. What has I fallen to the bottom, or the ground yeast, is not so poweiful. 3219. The proportion of yeast that should be icsed cannot be the same exactly for all 1 cases, for it must depend partly upon the quality of the beer and on the season: in most I cases a larger quantity of yeast will have the same effect as a higher degree of heat in exciting the fermentation, and a smaller quantity will be equivalent to a lower temper- ature ; but, in general, a gallon for four barrels may be stated as a general rule when the wort is from 60° to 70° ; if the heat be greater, something less may be sufficient. If the fermentation is too languid, more yeast must be added to revive the action, without which the beer wUl not only be deficient in spirit, but have a mawkish taste compounded of sweet and bitter, be apt to fret on a change of air, and be peculiarly liable to turn sour. Great care must be taken to blend the yeast intimately with the wort. 3220. The whole having been well mixed, and the cover put on the vat, fermentation com- mences, in from three to five hours, according to the temperature of the mass. A few bubbles may be seen first rising in the wort, and these collect first about the sides of the vat, where they soon form a kind of ring or line of froth : this gradually increases in breadth, advancing by degrees towards the centre, the liquor generally becoming turbid. At length the whole surface is covered by this frothy or cream-looking substance, which increases with a low hissing noise, owing to the breaking of the numerous au- bubbles and the escape of the carbonic acid gas which they contain, the nature of which has been already explained. 3221. As the fermentation increases in activity, the froth or yeast rises higher, and is elevated partially in little pointed forms called rocks by the brewers. The yeast, at first white, becomes yellowish, then brownish yellow, or rather streaks and little masses of that colour coUect upon it; these darker parts contain the bitter principle of the hop, and when it is not desirable that this shall be retained, as is the case in fine ales, the brewer skims it off that it may not mix with the liquor. About this stage of the process the brewer perceives a peculiar odour, somewhat of a vinous nature, called by the workmen by the strange name of stomach; and this continuing to acquire strength till the process is finished, the experienced brewer judges by it partly of the success of his operation. The froth at length becomes of a firmer consistence, being composed of a more viscid and glutinous matter, and the bubbles do not break so soon, but form larger than at first. The whole head, after this fennentation has continued some time, begins to grow flatter, the formation of froth lessens, and the dense viscid substance which had floated by its means would fall into the liquor if it was not skimmed otf. This is done sooner or later, as the brewer wishes the fermentation to continue or to cease. If he is desirous of continuing the fermentation, he will sometimes beat back the yeast into the liquor, and mix them together, which operation is termed rousing. If he wishes to check the fermentation, or considers it sufficient, he will carefully remove the yeast by skimming it off to preserve it for another brewing. As soon as the head of yeast ceases to rise, the first fermentation is complete. 3222. When the yeast is first added, the wort is turbid, and has scarcely any degree of transparency; but as the fermentation advances, a gradual deposition of opaque matter takes place, and the liquor becomes comparatively transparent, as well as specifically- lighter, in consequence of the spirit produced. 3223. During the fermenlalion in the tub, the tempera ture of the liquor continues to increase till it be a few degrees warmer than when it was first put in, but the precise increase depends partly upon the temperature of the liquor at the beginning, partly upon the