1084 ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. Book XXIL 6480. It IS unnecessary to say much respecting the manual operation of washing, since that IS well known. Those who attempt it for the first time generally ruh the linen against the skin, by which the latter is frayed, and sometimes rubbed off; whereas practised washerwomen take care to hold the linen so as to rub one part of its surface against another part, and, of course, not against the hand, otherwise they could not continue their work for the length of time which they do. We refer the reader to what we have said on the theory of washing for the rationale of the effect of the soap and friction in removing the dirt, and restoring the linen to its pristine purity. To save soap, it is usual now to put some soda into the lukewarm water to render it " soft; the quantity must be determined by experience : if too much be used, it will exhibit its effects upon the hands of the operators. Soda is more particularly useful when the water is at all hard, and will not make a lather : the best way of using it is to have a jug at hand with the soda dissolved in water, and to add a little at a time as the lather becomes weak. Careless washers leave their soap in the water, where it dissolves and is wasted unnecessarily. It is a good plan to provide little wooden bowls with perforated bottoms, placed on saucers, to put the soap into when it-is not used: wood is the best, as not being liable to be broken. " After the linen is well washed with plenty of lukewarm water the first time, it is to be put into a fresh quantity of water as hot as the hand can easily bear, and washed in this again, examining the whole carefully to see that no part has been missed: any such must be again washed until the whole is quite clean. " The next operation after washing is boiling the clothes, in order to produce a good colour, and to remove entirely the soap or other detergent matters that have been used, which, if left in, would occasion a disagreeable smell. In the water used for boiling, a little soda is sometimes added in the proportion of half a tea-spoonful to a gallon of water. Some inclose the linen in a bag before it is put into the copper to boil, in order to guard it effectually from the scum of the water which is apt to attach itself. After being boiled for about twenty minutes or half an hour, the linen is taken out, well rinsed in abundance of clean hot water, and afterwards in clean cold water which has a sufficient quantity of blue to give the proper tinge. It is then taken out and wrung dry; and care must be taken that the texture is not injured by the operation. It is then ready to be conveyed to the place where it is to be hung up and dried. It is necessary to state that, if the operations were commenced by boiUng the linen, the dirt would be fixed instead of being removed. Washing, therefore, precedes the boiling." 6481. In some countries the manual operation of washing is different from the English mode. In Paris, the blanchissevse takes her linen, after soaking it with soap, to a large barge on the river Seine, and then, having dipped it into the water, she lays it upon the flat edge of the vessel, and beats it with a wooden beetle, dipping, rubbing, and beating a;lternately until all the dirt is removed. It may be supposed that this will wear the linen much more than our mode: but it does not appear to be the case; and it saves much manual labour as well as fuel. In the country parts of Scotland it is usual to take the linen to a clear running stream, and not only to wash it there by hand, after having bucked what is most foul, but to beat it on a smooth flat stone with a wooden round mallet something like that of a paviour, and to tread it with the feet in a tub of water, beating, treading, and rinsing alteraately, after which it is spread out and dried upon the grass : this pi-ocess renders the linen beautifully soft and white, with little expense of soap. These simple methods have suggested the idea of using machinery for washing, which we shall speak of afterwards. 6482. The directions loe have hitherto given for washing apply more particularly to linen and white cottons or calico: we shall add some observations on the modes of managing with other fabrics. 6483. Calicoes, and all articles made of cotton, are more liable than linen to lose their colour and turn yellow by indifferent washing or lying by : the best way of restoring their whiteness is to get them bleached occasionally by country wa.shing, where they can be dried in the open air in the manner described under " Bleaching." The use of chlorine, or of the bleaching liquid, has been attempted with this view; but, though extremely valuable and efficacious in the hands of manufacturers, it is scarcely safe in ordinary domestic economy, as it requires more care and experience than is usually met with, and without which the articles would probably be irrecoverably destroyed. For such as wish to try the experiment, the method of proceeding may be gathered from what is said in Chap. X. Book XVII. on " Bleaching." 6484. With respect to printed cottons and muslins, the use of soda is apt to discharge or injure the colours, and is therefore better omitted, using soap only. (148.5. To ivash nankeen so as not to discharge the colour. — Put it to soak for twenty-four hours in cold water into which a handful of salt has been put; then wash it in warm ley •without soap, and do not wring it. 0486. Flannels, worsted Itosc, and other woollen articles require particular treatment. It