64d Chap. IV. ADULTERATION OF WINE. persons on account of their price ; but by assuming the title of port, either alone or mixed, they are evidently calculated to deceive. Of this nature is the Benecarlus wine, a strong, coarse, red Spanish wine, and other wines of Catalonia, which are much employed in Bordeaux for making up the inferior clarets for the English market, and which may be purchased in Spain at a much lower price than port. Figuera is another cheap red wine, which comes from the province of Estremadura, bearing a near resemblance to inferior port. Red Cape is also used. It is pointed out by Mr. Redding, that a return from the London Dock Company will show the immense number of pipes that are annually im- ported, and are cleared for the premises of the cheap port wine sellers. 3652. Various practices are used to cause new port to assume the appearance of old, and to make it pass for that of superior quality, an art known technically by the term doctoring. When port wine has been kept to a great age, the brandy combines so far with the wine as to lose its peculiar flavour, and permit the genuine taste of the wine to be perceived: at the same time much of the tartar, astringent and colouring matter, is pre- cipitated in the form of crust; the wine then has become paler, and is known by the name of tawni/ port. As this paleness of colour has been often considered as a test of age, dealers in wine have found means to imitate the wine by filtering it through charcoal, which deprives it of part of its colour; but, it should be observed, when genuine port becomes tawny through time alone, it has generally lost much of its vinosity and most valuable properties. AVhite port is sometimes added for the same purpose. 3653. Were the adulterations of port limited to the mere admixture of genuine wines, though inferior, the case would not be so serious ; but the published receipts, which let us into some of the secrets of the adulterator's trade, point out to us frauds of far greater extent. 3654. We cannot do better, perhaps, than to give a selection of those, which have been already quoted in a useful book upon this subject; and though we are very far from vouching that those receipts for frauds are now acted upon, yet the very fact of their being printed and sold proves that they have been employed. Imitation Port Wine.—" Good cyder, forty-five gallons ; brandy, six gallons ; good port wine, eight gallons ; ripe sloes, two gallons stewed well in two gallons of water ; press off the liquor and add to the rest: if the colour is not strong enough, ,idd tincture of red Saunders or cudbear. In a few days this wine may be bottled ; add to each bottle a tea-spoonful of the powder of catechu, mixing it well: it will very soon produce a fine crusted appearance, the bottles being packed on their sides as usual; soak the ends of the corks in a strong decoction of Brazil wood, with a little alum, which, along with the crust, gives an appearance of age."—• Vintners^ and Licensed J'ictvallers^ Guide, p. 79. An excellent receipt to make neat port " Let the hogshead be matched, then fill as follows : strong port, twelve gallons; rectified spirits, six gallons; cognac brandy, three gallons; fine rough cyder, forty-two gallons. Cost about eighteen shillings per dozen." — Palmer's Publicans* Director, p. 145, Another receipt mentioned as very general Is as follows : " Benecarlo wine, two pipes ; Figuera wine, two pipes ; red Cape, a pipe and a half; good port, a pipe and a half; common port, one pipe ; a little mountain ; some brandy cowe ; colouring, consisting of tartar and gum dragon." For colouring. — " Take raspings of red Saunders, six ounces; spirits of wine, one quart: infuse fourteen days, and filter through paper for use. It produces a beautiful red colour for port wine." Another. — " The juice of elder-berries, one gallon ; lump sugar, twelve pounds ; boil together for half an hour, taking off the scum as it rises ; strain through a flannel bag, and keep for use. It produces a beautiful colour for imitation wines."— Vintners' and Licensed Victuallers'' Guide, p. 2.58. We learn from one of the above-mentioned publications, the Vintners' and Licensed Victuallers' Guide, p. 259., what are the usual substances for performing the operation upon wines, called doctoring. Thus bitter almonds are added to give a nutty flavour ; sweet briar, orris root, clary, cherry-laurel water, and elder flowers, to form the bouquet of high flavoured wines ; alum, to render young and meagre red wines bright; Brazil wood, cake of pressed elder-berries and bilberries, to render pale faint port of a rich deep purple colour ; oak sawdust, and the husks of filberts, to give an additional astringency to unripe red wines ; and a tincture of the seeds of raisins, to flavour fictitious port. 36.55. It is stated in a work intended expressly to expose these frauds, th.at the manufacturers of adul- terated wine keep very large vats, holding from eight hundred to a thousand g.allons, in which these mixtures are made ; that they are more effectually blended by lying some time in such large quantities, by fretting in, on the principles already explained ; and that it is from the cheapness of the articles so employed that the advertising dealers are enabled to offer port at so low a price as twenty-four shillings per dozen bottles, the bottles themselves being likewise smaller than they ought to be. When it is apprehended that wine is about to become acid, or pricked, as the first degree of acetification is termed, it is a common practice to add starch sugar; if the acetification has actually begun, but advanced only a little way, then an alkali is added. Wines so treated, or doctored, with the addition of some astringent substance, are sometimes sold under some specious names, in order to account for the bad taste commu- nicated, such asflne old restorative port, Burgundy port, &c. 3656. Claret is less adulterated than port; yet, from the prevalence of the taste here for strong wines, little even of this comes to us in the purest state. The wines of Bor- deaux are generally mingled with stronger wines before they are shipped ; the best with Hermitage, or Cahors, which, however, are not injurious : the second class with Bene- carlos wine, which is destructive of the bouquet and aroma of the original wine, but to restore in some degree the lost qualities, the French merchants employ orris root and similar things. In England raspberry brandy is sometimes employed in minute quantities with the same view ; but the perfume then given is easily distinguished by practised con- noisseurs from the natural one. This kind of adulteration, although it renders the wine less pure, is not injurious to health. Claret, when old, becomes of a deeper colour, although port becomes lighter; hence the deep red wine of Cahors is sometimes employed to give the appearance of age. Very