786 ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. soot being deposited in the flues of the lower story. From this story the smoke ascends through holes in the ceiling into another placed above, in which sausages and fish are also smoked. It requires about six weelcs to smoke meat sufficiently if it is five or six inches thick; if thinner, less time will do. The smoke penetrates quicker and better in cold weather than in warm; and on this account the process is seldom carried on in the sum- mer season. 4490. Several places on the Continent, Westphalia-in particular, are famous for the delicacy and flavour of their smoked hams and other meat; and the manner of smokmo- them is nearly the same as that just described. In Westphalia, it is said they use juniper wood for the smoking. 4491. In many countries, various kinds of animal food are preserved by smoke-drying, besides bacon, pork, and hams. In the north of England, and in Dumfriesshire, mutton and beef hams are smoked. In Germany, venison, geese, and ducks are cured in this manner. The Orkneys were formerly celebrated for smoked geese, and sillocks, a small salt-water fish. The Highlands of Scotland are famous for smoked salmon. 4492. To prepare hung beef. —This is preserved by salting and drying, either without or with smoke. Hang up the beef three or four days, till it becomes tender, but take care it does not begin to spoil; then salt it in the usual way, either by dry salting, or by brine with bay salt, brown sugar, and saltpetre, with a little pepper and allspice ; after- wards roll it tight in a cloth, and hang it up in a warm, but not in a hot place, for a fort- night or more till it is sufiiciently hai-d. If required to have a little of the smoky flavour, it n»ay be hung for some time in a chimney corner, or' smoked in any other way ; it will keep a long time. 4493. To make hun^ beef in the Dutch way Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or coarse sugar, and let it remain for three days, turning it frequently ; after that, wipe it dry, and salt it well with common salt and saltpetre, well dried and beaten fine ; turn it every day for a fortnignt; roll it quite tiglit in a coarse cloth, and put it into a cheese press, or under a heavy weight, for a day ; hang it then to dry in tlie smoke of wood or turf, but turn it upside down every day. 4494. The tongues of various animals are preserved by salting and smoking. Neats^ longiies are sometimes pickled only; but they are more commonly salted, dried, and smoked. Rein-deers' tongues smoked come to us from Norway as a great delicacy. 4495. Tar vinegar has been used for giving the smoky flavour to meat. P6ur half a pound of the best pickling vinegar over an equal quantity of common tar; stir them together, and let them remain for an hour; then pour off the vinegar. Cut slices from a ham that has been cured with salt, but which is deficient in the smoky flavour, and dip them into this tar vinegar. Broil them, and they wUi be found to be much improved. 4496. Curing with smoke is applied very successfully to fish of various kinds. Bed herrings derive their appellation from the brownish red colour given to them by smoke after they have been salted. Yarmouth has been celebrated for many centuries for the preparation of red herrings, and it still stands unrivalled in Great Britain, and is perhaps not excelled anywhere. The best kind prepared there are known by the name of " Yarmouth bloaters." The Yarmouth are first salted, and then smoked with wood smoke; but the Dutcii use turf, and sometimes straw, for smoking. 4497. Herrings may be easily smoked thus : — Wipe them clean, and lay them in equal parts of salt and sugar, and a little saltpetre, for twenty-four hours ; then hang them on a stick by passing it through the eyes. Put some oak sawdust into a cask, and place in the sawdust an iron heated red hot. Fix the stick across the cask, letting the herrings hang within ; cover the whole with a cloth, and let it remain for twenty-four hours. The best way of dressing red herrings, we are told in " Sir John Cochrane's Seamen's Guide," is to soak them in water untU they become pretty fresh, and hang them up in the sua and wind ; then boil or broil them as wanted. In this way they eat extremely tender. Red herrings, though by no means a wholesome food if eaten too frequently, and par- ticularly if the salt be not taken out, yet, from their high flavour, they may be made extremely useful as a cheap addition to other varieties of food that would be insipid by themselves ; and they have the advantage of being easily kept for a very long time. 4498. Smoked salmon, called " kippered salmon," is a favourite article of diet in Scot- land for breakfast. After taking out the inside of the salmon, scale and split it; then rub it with common salt and Jamaica pepper, and let it drain for twenty-four hours. Jlix together salt, coarse sugar, and a little saltpetre, and rub the fish well once or twice with this, and leave it in a tray to pickle for a couple of days ; wijie and dry it, stretch it on sticks, and hang it up in the smoke of a turf or wood fire to dry. If less smoking is wished, dry it partly by the heat of a fire or the sun. Kippered salmon is eaten boiled and just warmed through. 4499. Finnan haddocks are cured at Findhorn (pronounced Finnan), a fishing village near to Aberdeen famous for tliis fish, which are considered very delicate, and arc much used at breakfast in that part of Scotland ; they arc s]ilit, dried for a day or two in the sun, and hung up for a few days on wooden spits on a wide chimney filled with smoke from a fire made of peat and sea-weed, so as to receive a very slight flavour. These may