1116 CARRIAGES. Book XXIII. of the progressive motion, that is, longitudinally. But carriages hung upon C springs admit of very considerable longitudinal movement in the body of the carriage, and, on that account, they are the most heavy to draw. Cabriolets hung in this manner require heavy powerful horses to drag them, whereas vehicles with grasshopper and elliptic springs have no elastic motion in a longitudinal direction, but only an up-and-down motion; they are therefore much easier to pull, and may be drawn by lighter horses. Carriages suspended on C springs are the easiest for the passenger, though not for the horses; because with them there is not only a longitudinal but likewise a side motion, as well as a perpendicular one, which causes the jolting from passing over stones or other obstacles to be less felt than with grasshopper or elliptic springs. Now, however, from the great improvement in our roads, carriages on elliptic springs are nearly as easy to the rider as those on C springs, and being much lighter for the horses are much In fashion. The more elasticity, or, in other words, the more action, there is in the latter springs, the more effect wOl they produce in diminishing the draught: with a C spring a contrary effect is produced. The greater the elasticity, also, the more will springs lessen the sudden shocks to the load. Some are of opinion that post-chaises, which are now hung on C springs, may afford all the ease that is required by placing them on well-constructed grasshopper springs, and with considerable advantage to the horses. Much of the forms and construction of carriages depend upon the roads, since it is requisite to suit them to the condition of the latter: the late improvements on roads have had a considerable effect upon modern carriages, which are now built much lighter than formerly, when greater strength was required to resist the concussions caused by obstacles. 6647. Phaetons are now very generally made without a perch, and placed upon elliptic springs. Fig. 864. is one of this kind, in which the body b nearly the same as in the phaeton with a perch. Fig. 865. is a variety called a Stanhope phaeton. 6648. A pony phaeton is a small light phaeton with low wheels, intended for parks where ladies can drive themselves : but a boy may ride as postilion on one of the ponies. 6649. The Cab phaetons, figs. 866. 867., are other e.xamph>s of the varieties of this kind of carriage that have appeared of late. These are sometimes hung on C sprmgs with a perch ; and sometimes tlie upper part of the body is of cane. 6650. Fig. 868. is a cab phaeton with a hard seat.