636 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. from the iil os^ricraries of particular constitutions. But they are not necessarily unwholesome;" and he adds, that their general insalubrity, whatever it may be, will certainly be diminished by every step which they shall make m their approach to the wine of the grape, that standard of perfection to which they must all ultimately be relerred. But we should observe, that Dr. M.icculloch in this alludes to domestic wiiu-s made by private individuals in the best manner, and not to what is sold in shops, of the manufacture of which we are ignorant. 3571. With respect to the wholesomeness of our domestic wines made from ordinary fruit as the}' are commonly manufactured and sold, we cannot recommend them, considering the quantity of free acid which they usually contain, and that their actual composition is not known to us ; and though, by proper management, conducted upon principle, they may be made by private individuals of superior quality, yet we are far from holding out the hope that they shall, from our native fruits alone, independently of the grape, ever be the rivals of the wines of foreign countries. But, without pretending to do with our gooseberries, currants, and other fruits of that kind, what is impossible, we might fairly expect to make from them a class of useful beverages, as various at least as the fruits from which they are produced, and holding an intermediate rank between the more ordinary ones, cyder and pei-ry, and that first of all liquors, the wine of the grape. 3.'572. The usual addition of brandy to our domestic wines is a circumstance that deserves particular consideration. We havt; stated that the great radical defect in this manufac- ture is using too small a quantity of fruit compared with the sugar employed. It is this circumstance chiefly which renders the fermentative process incomplete, and thus imparts the sweet, mawkish taste which renders our wines intolerable to many people, and even to all, perhaps, without the addition of brandy. We have, when treating of " Foreign Wines," stated the great prevalence of this practice in preparing many wines for the English ruarket, and the bad effects of it. The general taste of this country, so long ac- customed to strong brandied wines, can scarcely relish less potent beverages; but the alleged reason for introducing spirits into our domestic wines is that without it they will not keep ; but it has been shown by Dr. Macculloch that the necessity of introducing spirits into our wines on this account is a mistaken notion j and that were they made with the proper quantities of the materials, and with due attention to the fermentation and other processes, there is no reason why our wines should not be sufficiently durable without this addition. Independently of the brandy never combining completely with the wine, and consequently existing in a state that renders it injurious as a beverage, fine wines are invariably spoiled by the addition of ardent spirits, which seems to have the effect of slowly decomposing them, and thus of destroying that delicate, brisk, and lively flavour BO eminently possessed by natural wines. If the addition of brandy be thought essential, either for keeping or strength, it should be done during the second fermentation in the cask, or the fretting-in process, since then a portion at least of the spirit will enter into permanent combination with the wine, which will not be the case when the fermentation is completed. 3S73. The names of foreign wines, given to our home manvfaclures by dealers, is a gross fraud upon the public, and is particularly calculated to mislead numerous persons little acquainted with the history of wines, and who scarcely know that Calcavella, Frontignac, and other names displayed in a conspicuous manner in our shops belong to wines of the Continent which cannot possibly be made in Britain. There is nothing wrong in endeavouring to imitate the flavour of these wines; the crime is in not taking care lest the purchaser shoiilil lie under the erroneous impression that the imitation is the original wine. Another circumstance is obvious; that as we do not know all the substances employed in making these imitations, not having any acquaintance with the chemical skill nor the honesty of those who manufacture them, we run the greatest risk, if not of being actually poisoned, yet of taking substances in our wine extremely deleterious to our health. Nothing is more dangerous than permitting the composition of our food or drink to be a secret; and it must be evident that it has been a leading idea, all through this Work, to enlighten the public upon this subject, and to induce every one to perceive the necessity of understanding accurately the nature of what is so important to our health, <nnd, consequenrly, our happiness. Those who are desirous of ascertaining how nearly our domestic wines may be made to imitate those of foreign growth, will be safe if they make the trials themselves, guided by their own skill in chemistry, or that of some chemical friend ; and experiments of this kind, conducted with care, will highly deserve being laid before the public. We would strongly recommend all those who turn their attention to the subject to possess themselves of the theoretical principles which vie have endeavoured to render familiar and easy to bo comprehended, as this cannot fail to light them in their path in making experiments and trials in making wine. Some knowledge of the elements of chemistry will be of the greatest use in enabling them to vary their practice as circumstances may require. 3574. We have now given a sketch of the leading facts lehich are necessan/ to be known in the art of making domestic wines; but as ice are convinced that there are many persons who will not take the trouble of studying these with sufficient attention, who yet would be desirous of attempting to fabricate some home-made wines in the usual manner by following a receipt, we feel it necessary to add some receipts of this kind, collected from tlie best sources. SunsECT. 4. — Gooseberry Wine. 3575. The gooseberry is one of our fruits most commonly used amongst us for domestic wine, and, if managed judiciously, may produce au excellent brisk wine, which is likewise the readiest made, and the cheapest. For this purpose the fruit may be used in the unripe state ; and wine so prepared, by judicious management, conies often so near to real Cham- pagne as not to be distinguished except by those much accustomed to the French wine. It is difficult, however, to get quite rid of a peculiar flavour derived from the gooseberry,