12 Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. style which we have just mentioned; of which figs. 18, 19, 20. ai-e specimens. But tliis style of building, though termed in general Grecian, was, in fact, rather Roman; the diflference, however, cannot he easily understood except by those who have learned the Fig. 18. elementary part of the science. The whole is therefore still commonly designated as Grecian architecture. m Fig.K. 35. Later architects, enlightened hy a more careful study of antique remains, had, in gene- ral, given up most of the absurdities of the Italian Cinque Cento school, preserving what Fig. 20. was most pure ; and by their acquiring the knowledge of antique remains still to be seen in Greece, Sicily, and Asia Minor, architecture has been gradually improving. OBSERVATIONS ON THK C&AHACTERS AND PROPERTIES OF THE VARIOl S STYLES OP ARCHITECTURE, AS FAR AS THESE ARE APPLICABLE To DOMESTIC PURPOSES. 6. It is generally allowed that the Greeks and Romans carried architecture to the highest degree of perfection ; but it is unfortunate that though we possess many remains of their public buildings, yet few traces of their domestic edifices e.xist. In reviving their style, therefore, sd'ter the long period known as the "dark ages," and applying it to do- mestic use, their public, and not their private buildings, necessarily became the proto- types ; and certain parts and ornaments, which were, in all probability, limited by the ancients to religions and sacred structures, were employed by the modems in the decora- tion of town mansions and villas ; although there is great reason for supposing, as we have already ob.served, that the style and character of the private dwellings among the clas- sical nations differed essentially from those of their public buildings. 37. Jiniu.sl lie adiinlted as a principle of sound la.ite that every building should have a form and character suited to, and expressive of, its use and destination. But this rule does not appear by many of our modern architects to be very essential; for the same kind of portico that was employed by the ancients in their most magnificent temples, the