CUAP. IX. FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. 507 is succulent, contained in cells divided by membranes and crowded with seeds; the juice is of a pleasant acid taste, and particularly grateful and cooling in warm climates. It is said to assuage thirst in a degree quite peculiar to it from its acid, wliich is full of " melting sweetness." All tlie rest of the plant is highly astringent. The bark hus so much tannin, that it is employed in Germany and other countries for malting an imitation of Morocco leather, and the rind of the fruit will do instead of nut-galls for ink : it was also employed medicinally in ancient times, as it is still in some places at present. 2S16. The pomegranate flourishes in the open air in the south of Europe; but in Kugland, though it blossoms readily in the southern coiinties, the fruit requires a green- house to bring it to perfection. It was first brought to this country in 1548, duriug the reign of Henry VIII., and it was among the trees that fruited in the orange-house of Charles I. The tree sometimes attains the height of twenty feet, and is highly prized as an ornament on account of its beautiful scarlet blossoms, which are extremely fragrant. In the West Indies, where it has been planted, the fruit grows larger and liner-flavoured than in Europe. Its singular and beautiful appearance adds to the variety at the dessert. SuBSECT. 2. — Banana (^Musa sapientum. Linn.). 2817. This fruit is very generally diffused over the torrid zone of the New World, and an immense portion of mankind subsist chiefly upon it, answering to them instead of the wheat, barley, and rye in Europe and Western Asia, and rice in India. The banana is not known in an uncultivated state: among the wildest tribes in South America, as well as in other places, it is propagated by suckers. 2818. No individual plant in the vegetable kingdom produces so much nutriment in the same space of ground. The fruit is from five to seven or eight inches long, and sometimes a foot in circumference. Each plant will produce from 160 to 180 fruit, which grow in a bunch, and each bunch weighs from 60 to 80 pounds. Humboldt has observed, that au European is surprised to see the smallness of the plantation of bananas round an Indian hut, which is found suflScient to maintain the family. A cultivated space of only 1000 square feet will admit of 30 to 40 bananas, which, together, will annually produce 4000 pounds weight of fruit — a produce 133 times greater than could be obtained from ihe same space if covered with wheat, and 44 times greater than if occupied by potatoes. 2819. The form of the /rui< is somewhat like that of the cucumber, but of a highly grateful flavour, less luscious than the plantain, and composing an extremely nutritive and healthy aliment: the stalks are marked with purple spots, whereas that of the plan- tain is entirely green. The plantain is relished by all ranks of people in the West Indies, and is consi- dered as preferable to bread in hot climates. Dr. Wright observes, that no species of provision could supply its place; even wheaten bread would be less agreeable and less capable of supporting the laborious negro, and enabling him to preserve his health. In America it is the custom to plant banana walks, which they extend as their family increases. Some or other of the plants are in bearing the whole year round. It is eaten raw, roasted, or boiled, and is made into fritters, preserves, and marmalades ; and it is dried in the sun and preserved like figs. Meal is extracted from it by pounding. Some- times, after making it into a paste, they squeeze it through a sieve, form the mass into loaves, which are dried in the sun, or baked in hot ashes, after having been previously wrapped up in leaves. The fermented juice also affords an excellent wine. 2820. Bananas have been fruited in England in a hothouse. When the building is lofty enough, they form a magnificent appearance, equal, if not superior, to what they present in their native climes. Perfectly ripe bananas were produced in the hot- houses of the Royal Caledonian Horticultural Society, in Edinburgh, and were sent up to the Lord Mayor of London for the banquet given to the present Queen at Guildhall, but, from some cause or other, were neg- lected to be mentioned in the published report, although certainly the rarest dish on that occasion. 2821. Plantain (Musa Paradisiaca, Linn.) This fruit <Jig. 518.) is allied to the banana, but is a native of the Old World, growing in India and Africa, from whence it was carried to the West Indies. 2822. The fruit of the plantain is about the size of ordmary cucumbers. When ripe it turns yellow, is sweet, of a mealy substance, tasting something like the melon, luscious and dissolving in the mouth. It is brought to table as dessert, raw ined, or roasted. It is used also in tarts, or dried, or preserved as a sweetmeat, and is Fig. .M8.