Book I\'. 134 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Sect. I. WAX CANDLES. 615. The making of wax candles is seldom altempted in domestic economy in this countn/. There are three methods ofmakiny them: 1. by hand; 2. by the ladle; and, 3. by drawinf^. GIG. In the first method, the -wax is first softened and worked well by hand in a kettle of warm water; it is then taken out in pieces, and gradually, bit by bit, disposed round a cotton wick slightly twisted, which is hung upon a hook in the wall, beginning at the bottom, and proceeding to the upper part. To prevent the wax from adhering to the bauds, they are rubbed over with olive oil, or lard. When the candles have acquired a sufficient size, they are made perfectly round and smooth by rolling them upon a table of hard wood, with a board made of box, that is kept constantly moistened with hot water to prevent the adhesion of the wax. This method is employed in domestic establishments in warai climates, where peopla often make their own candles. 617. /)( making wax candles hy the ladle the wicks are suspended from a short rod or a circle of iron over a tinned copper vessel, containing melted wax ; a large ladle full of this is poured gently and repeatedly on the tops of the wicks, till the candles have acquired a proper size : they are then rounded and smoothed by rolling on a table as before mentioned. 618. The third method, by drawing, is usually employed when candles are manufactured upon a great scale. The wicks in great lengths are made to go through a vessel of wax kept melted, and as they come out of the wax, they pass through holes in a plate of metal in the way that wire is drawn, only instead of passing them through holes each one smaller than the other, they are passed through holes successively larger, the candles increasing in size by being drawn again and again through the melted wax. These long cylinders are afterwards cut into the proper length for candles. Gl 9. In France the wax candle is termed bougie, to distinguish it from tlie tallow candle, called chandellc. Spermaceti candles are bougies diaplianes. The best wax candles are made at Le Mans, and have hence been named Bougies de Mans. 620. Wax tapers are of two kinds. The first are larger than a candle, and used in church solemnities, funeral processions, &c. The use of hghts in religious ceremonies is of long standing. The ancients used them in their sacrifices; and they were introduced into Christian churches probably from the necessity of procuring artificial hght where the windows were very small, and before glass came into general use. They are still much employed in Roman Catholic churches. The wicks of tapers are made of half cotton and half flax, and the wax is poured on them by a ladle repeatedly until they have acquired sufiicient thickness. They are then rolled while a little soft, upon a smooth table. Small luax tapers are drawn in the same manner as wax candles, and afterwards made np into coils, for various domestic purposes. Sect. IL sper3iaceti candles. 621. Spermaceti candles are of modern manufacture. The nature of the substance has been already described. They nearly resemble those of wax in their quaUties : they are smooth, with a fine gloss, almost semi-transparent, and of a silvery white, while those of wax have always a slight tint of yellow. When genuine, drops of spermaceti leave no stain. They are cheaper than the best wax. Sect. IIL tallow-candles. For the nature of tallow, see Sect. 4. Chap. II. 622. Tallow candles are of two kinds; the one dipped, the other moulded. Tlie manu- facture of these is very different, excepting what relates to the melting of the tallow, and making the wick, which is nein-ly the same in both. The wicks are made of spun cotton, loosely twisted, and [jrcpared in large balls. The manufacturer puts three or four or more threads together, according to the intended size of the wick, and cuts them ofl' to the pro- posed length of the candle. SunsECT. 1.— Dipped Candles. 62.'?. In making dipped candles, the cotton wick is pulled, made straight and smooth, and freed from all knots and imperfections; then put on the broaches a b, fig. !»;»., which are rods about half an inch in diameter, and about tlivcc feet long. The different kinds of tallow being weighed and mixed in their due proportion, are cut or hacked into pieces, and to be melted, are thrown into a pot or boiler, having a cavity of some