190 (Chap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. O 4 SuBSECT. 5. — Iron. 902. Iron is the metal most abimdantly employed for economical pm-poses; and, fortu- naatoly, it is the most plentiful in nature : on accomit of its great importance and useful- iiaess, it demands particular notice. 903. Iron is procured from €ie ores dug out of the earth by fusing them in a furnace at ;ii very strong heat ; the metal, thus freed from the earth with -which it -was combined in tthe ore, flows out in a liquid state. 904. This first product is called cast iron, because it can be run or cast into moulds. All aarticles of cast iron are formed by first making models of them in wood, wax, or some l other substance; these models are then pressed into very fine sand, and the impression so ■.'.made is called a mould, into which the fluid iron is rvm from the furnace. But this cast :nron is very far from being pure iron. It is iron combined with some carbon, or charcoal, loesides various earthy impurities. It differs from pure iron in being crystallised, in not bbeing malleable, or capable of being extended by the hammer; and it is likewise i-2xtremely brittle; but it is very hard, and, except made in a particular manner, cannot he itiut by a file ; consequently aU articles of cast iron are liable to be broken by a blow or wall, or by throwing water upon them when heated. Its fusibility, however, is a valuable ['property, since many articles of furnitm'e can be made of it by casting, as saucepans, [lenders, and ornaments of various kinds, that could not be fabricated in this manner of ppure iron, since this cannot be melted in any ordinary degi'ee of heat, even of a furnace. It must be observed, that, by late improvements in the manufacture of iron, cast iron ccan be made so soft as to be filed with considerable ease, after it is cast into moulds, a oiircumstance of the greatest importance in fitting together the various parts of castings. Great quantities of various kinds of cutlery are made of this kind of cast iron, particu- hlarly forks, scissors, snuffers, &c. The models are made of lead, and the moulds are iiin sand. The iron employed is of the kind which contains a large quantity of carbon, iifuses at a low temperature, and becomes very liquid. It is the only kind that can be used : for small articles; these, when cast, are almost as brittle as glass, but, to obviate this, they -are afterwards heated in pots with ashes or sand, for the purpose of annealing them. After I'this process, they are found to be very soft, and to be capable of even bending a little "witliout breaking. They are then finished in a manner similar to those that are forged, with the exception that they are not hardened and tempered ; were they subjected to that ['process, they would return to the same state as before annealing. Cutlery made in this nmanner is sold at a very low price ; but the knives and forks are not only liable to break, bbut they soon turn blackish, and then can be very little improved by the common mode oof cleaning; they are susceptible of only a very miserable polish. Various attempts have been made with a view to improve the cast iron cutlery, some "of which have been rather successful. 905. The art of casting iron is carried to a great degree of perfection in Prussia. Oma- iiments made of cast iron come to us from Berlin that are quite surprising for their delicacy aand beauty ; not only figures, candlesticks, lamp-stands, ink-stands, &c., but necklaces, cear-rings, brooches, and similar ornaments. These have of late been imitated here with iitolerable success ; but it is said our founders are not acquainted with the Prussian method I'of staining the iron with a deep black that never wears off: they can only apply a thin Tvamish that is liable to come off. 906. Pure, or malleable iron, called also wrought iron, is manufactured from cast iron by rreheating masses of it, called pigs, and subjecting them to the action of a heavy hammer worked by powerful machineiy. By heating and hammering repeatedly these pigs of I crude or cast iron, the carbon is expelled, and the metal at last is obtained in a state of I purity, when it manifests its well-known properties of great ductility or malleability, by ■^whicli it can be fashioned into various articles by the smith, although it has become very ^infusible, and cannot he melted in the ordinary heat even of a furnace. It can now be iweldcd; that is, two or more pieces of iron when heated intensely, can be made to adhere 'and unite together under the smith's hammer, a property of very great value not pos- -«essed by cast iron. In this state, it is likewise so soft, that it can be subjected to the file, land made into any form. Hence, wrought iron is employed for many domestic imple- iiments, in the fashioning of which filing is necessary, e-xcept where brittleness would be a L'great objection, as fire irons, and various things forged by the smith : but it rusts easily "when exposed to damp air, and does not take a high polish. Wrought or malleable iron •is not sufficiently hard for making cutting instruments ; for this purpose it must be con- iverted into steel 907. Steel i.i an artificial comhination of iron with carbon, though somewhat different ■from that which composes cast iron. When steel is made red hot, it is soft, and can he iiliammered, and filed into any shape ; but if suddenly plunged in its heated state into cold "water, it instantly becomes extremely liard, and can no longer be acted upon by a file, "which is itself steel so hardened, and has the power of cutting and piercing iron, or steel,