IIAP. II. WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. 955 I'arance of common calico, twilled cloth exhibits some of the threads passing along over i veral before disappearing; and c represents the surface of such cloth. When twilled ^oth is composed of silk, it is called satin; when of cotton, fustian or jean; when it is niposed of woollen, it is called serge, or kerseymere ; and in linen it is distinguished by irious names. It is easy to see how a great variety of figures, consisting of sprigs, ! nvers, or spots, may be produced by varying the mode in which the weft intersects the arp ; and in order that the weaver may clearly understand the intended texture of his ML'ce, all the threads are drawn on paper before he begins, in a manner peculiar to them- Ives. Cloths may be twilled on one side or on both sides, as shalloon ; and they may made by various dispositions of the loom to exhibit the different stripes and figures seen ,11 dimity, diaper, and damask. 5609. Pile-weaving is that by which velvets, various fustians, such as velveteens, corde- l oys, &c., are formed. In these, besides the warp and weft, another series of threads are Moven in and fixed in loops, which are afterwards cut to form the pile of these fabrics. 5610. The draw-loom is employed where the most intricate figures in cloth are required, i'liese machines are necessarily complicated, though very complete; and it is by them t! I at figured and spotted muslins, damask, whether of silks or linen, and even many carpets are now woven. Those for damasks are the most curious, and their productions have justly excited the highest admiration. The most perfect loom of this kind was the in- \ cntion of M. Jacquard, a practical weaver at Lyons ; and the machine continues to bear his name. It has now superseded all other looms for figure-weaving, the skill and labour n'i|uired being so much reduced by it, that they are little more than is required for plain w eaving. It is lamentable to learn that this admirable invention did not benefit its author, who experienced the most bitter annoyances from his fellow artizans. 5611. Ribbands are woven in a manner analogous to cloth; but the looms are sometimes jso constructed that upwards of fourteen ribbands may be woven at once. 5612. Stocking-weaving is of a different kind, and will be described under " Stockings." CHAP. II. WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Sect. I. mSTOniCAL AND GENERAL REMARKS. 5613. The substances employed for clothing are so numerous, and the ways of pre- paring them so various, that there are few arts in which more sagacity has been displayed, or where the inventive powers of man have been called more into action. The sheep in early times supplied clothing to many nations of antiquity ; but it would be found that skin with its wool was too heavy and rigid, and that the latter, when separated, might be converted into cloth that was more flexible and admitted of being made of various degrees of warmth. 5614. It is known that woollen garments, as well as those of linen, were worn by the ancient Egyptians. These also formed aknost exclusively the attire of the ancient Greeks and Romans, though but little is known concerning their manufacture. We learn, how- ever, that these nations bestowed great pains in improving their breed of sheep, and gave high prices for select animals ; also, that they made woollen fabrics of great fineness 5615. We have mentioned, that though England had been long famous for its wool, yet that the art of weaving it into cloth, except that of the coarsest kind, was little known pre- viously to the year 1331 ; the higher classes had fine cloths, but these were chiefly of foreign manufacture. Little mention is made of this branch of trade in England prior to the reign of Edward III., who, having married Philippa of Hainault, found means to bring over a considerable number of woollen manufacturers from the Low Countries. These Flemings settled in 1 ork, Kendal, Halifax, Manchester, Norwich, and also in the west of England; but we have few records of the progress of the manufacture till the time of Henry VIII., when it had grown into considerable importance. Another advance was made in consenuence of refugee weavers, who fled from the Netherlands to England, to avoid the religious perse- cutions of the Duke of Alva. These Flemings were graciously received by Queen Eliza- beth, and obtained liberty to settle at Norwich, Colchester, Sandwich, and other ulaces Notwithstanding this, the manufacture of cloth made greater progress for a lonl' time among the neighbouring nations than amongst ourselves. fa ^ 5616. About the reigns of Edward VL and Queen Mary, some kinds of woollen cloths