915 Book XIV. FRENCH AND ENGLISH COOKING COMPARED. 3 N 2 fat remain remove it entirely. Put the strained liquor again on the fire in a clean stew- pan, sweeten it with loaf sugar, add the peels and juice 6f lemons and some cinnamon. Mash four eggs, shells and all, which put in and whisk it well with a clean rod, till it begins to become white and form bubbles; let it then continue to simmer about half an hour longer, when it may be remoTed from the fire and strained through a flannel bag. This operation of straining must be repeated till it is perfectly transparent. If you wish to introduce any wine into the jelly, let it be put in with the eggs and spices. Madeira is the best, and if you require it of a deep tint some liquid of colour may be added. .5292. Fruit jellies in the summer time are very salubrious, and are made at little 1 expense. Such fruits as abound in juice are best adapted for these preparations. 5233. Strawberry Jelly. — Mash with the hand a quantity of fresli-gatliered strawberries ; squeeze the juice I through a cloth, and put this liquor, with sufficient sugar and lemon-juice, into a pan over a gentle fire, and : skim it well from froth ; when clear, add some melted isinglass, and strain it through a flannel bag. Repeat I this till it is transparent, and when nearly cold put it into moulds. Siime whole strawberries may be put in I before the jelly concretes. This is the most difficult to make of all these jellies, as the fine aroma and flavour 1 of the strawberry become dissipated by heat. 5294. Cherry jetty Take two pounds of Kentish cherries and half a pound of blackhearts ; stone Ihem ; 1 mash the cherries, and pound the stones ; mix them together, and let them simmer about half an hour with I some cinnamon and a few bruised coriander seeds. Strain them through a sieve. Set them again on the I fire with sufficient sugar, and the juice of two lemons ; remove any scum that may arise, and add sufficient I melted isinglass ; strain it till clear through a flannel bag, and, lastly, pour it into the moulds. In propor- ! tion as the juice of these fruits is diminished by evaporation, the less isinglass will be necessary. If required I particularly transparent, whites of eggs must be put in ; and whenever the person preparing these can have .■ access to ice the process is much facilitated. 5295. Haspberry jetiy. — Express the juice of the raspberries and let it simmer, removing all scum, till ; about a third is consumed ; add Icmon-juice and sugar, or which is better, clarified syrup, as it produces no i additional scum ; with this mix sufficient isinglass previously dissolved, and when nearly cold, pour it into ! the moulds. In the same manner jellies may be made from any of the fruits that abound in juice, as barher- I rips, currants, white and red, grapes, oranges, and lemons. In proportion as the juices are evaporated they I will require less isinglass to form them into a jelly. The addition of lemon-juice, the quantity of which must tbe .adjusted by the palate, and also the sugar, very considerably impioves the flavour. 5296. Currant jelly for sauces. — This may be mado of the white, red, or black currants. The red is I mostly used in cookery. Pick red currants and express their juice, which boil in the preserving pan until a t third part is consumed, removing all scum that may .trise. While hot, strain this juice througli a flannel h,ig. j To a pint of this juice add a pound of fine loaf sugar powdered, and when it boils carefully remove any scum; I let it continue to boil about half an hour, when it m,ay be poured into pots. Prepared in this manner, by pre- V viously concentrating the juice, it will keep for a long time, if preserved in a dry place. 5i97. Anolhcr way {U'illioui boiling.). — Vut reA currants stripped of their stalks into a stone jar; cover 1 it close, .ind put the jar either into an oven or into a kettle of hot water, by which means the juice may be ocompletely expressed, the fruit being only just swelled by the heat. While hot, strain the juice through ccoarse muslin, and pour it into a china bowl, after ascertaining the number of pints of juice thus obtained ; 1 to every pint add a pound of loaf sugar broken into very small lumps. Put the bowl in a cool place, and c occasionally, in the course of every day, stir the sugar and juice together for two or three weeks, when they • will begin to jelly sufficiently, though not so firmly as when boiled in the usual way. The advantage of this cmode is its economy, no waste of juice occurring as it does when boiled for a sufficient time. It is, however, tfirm enough to be used for sweet sauce. BOOK XIV. FRENCH COOKERY. CHAP. I. FRENCH AND ENGLISH COOKING COMPARED. 5298. Among the distinctive characteristics of French cooking, the first that obtains rnotice is that which arises from the long-continued, although gradual action of heat, to ■•which all solid meats under the hands of French cooks are submitted, and by which all ithe fibrous parts are brought into a state of perfect intineration. In English cooking, tthe time allowed for roasting or broiling, and even for boiling, is, in all general cases, I limited, in the apprehension of a French cook, to such a degree as to render English ■ dishes scarcely eatable; as food for semi-barbarians, not for a civilised people. The 1 English imagine that more genuine flavours and greater nourishment are to be found in ! their dishes than in those of the French; the latter, on the other hand, assert that in ■ English cooking too much is left for the digestive organs to perform. The state of i intineration into which solid food is reduced by French cooking is that into which the digestion must bring it before it can complete its operations ; and as in English cooking • this is not, according to French notions, sulHciently brought about, it is regarded as the cause of the frequent derangement of the digestive organs, and consequent hypochon- driacal affections, common to the English.