Book IX. 738 ON MAKING BREAD. of a more genial sun : it is, therefore, less proper for malt, and is going out of use for that purpose; hut it makes good barley bread, and is also fit for the distiller. It appears that the thickness of the skin of barley increases according to the coldness of the cli- mate in -which it is cultivated ; the cuticle of Norfolk barley being thinner than that of the species in Berwickshire or East Lothian : yet if Norfolk barley is sown in Scotland for several successive years, its cuticle is found to become thicker; but the difference between the cuticle in spring and winter barley depends upon their being different species. • 3. Common or long-eared barley {Hordeum distichon, Lin.) has the grains arranged in two rows, and is known by its very long spike or ear, and the awn being also very long. This is cultivated in many parts of England and Scotland, and is best adapted for malt of any of the varieties. Besides these there are other varieties, little cultivated here, as sprat or baldcdorc barley, naked barley the awns of which fall off when ripe, Siberian barley, chevalier barley, &c. 4199. 2?(trZey contoins, according to EinhofiF, in 100 parts, volatile matter, 9-37 ; vegetable albumen, 1'15; saccharine matter, 5'21 ; mucilage, 4-62; phosphate of lime with mucilage, 0-24 ; gluten, 3-52 ; husk, with some gluten and stal-ch, 7'29 ; starch, not quite free from gluten, 67'18 ; loss, r42. Sir H. Davy found Norfolk Isarley to contain in 100 parts, starch, 79 ; gluten, 6 ; saccharine matter, 7 ; husk, 8. 4200. Dr. Tliomson states that the gluten of barley is partially soluble in cold water, as is shown in the steeping of barley for malting ; but it coagulates in 120° or 130°, and falls down in grey coloured flocks. He also extracted from the husks of barley a small quantity of an oily matter, of an asparagus green colour, and taste resembling that of the spirits from raw grain, to which, no doubt, the flavom* of whiskey is owing. He likewise found in barley some nitrate of soda capable of crystallising. Barley has less nutritious matter than wheat, and this is differently composed. It has more mucilage, only about a third of the quantity of gluten, and as much sugar, with nearly the same proportion of starch. It is owing to the larger proportion of mucilage contained in barley, and the smaller quantity of gluten, that this grain, though less nutritive, is a lighter and less stimulating food than wheat; and hence, a decoction of barley is peculiarly adapted to invalids whose digestive powers are weak. The meal of the bigg which grows on the mountain is more palatable than that of the long-eared barley from a rich soil; and the barley cakes made from it in the Highlands are particularly sweet and delicate. The superior flavour of Highland whiskey is probably owing in a great measure to the quality of the grain. 4201. The rapidity with which barley germinates favours its conversion into malt; but from this circumstance, it is very liable to commence sprouting even while yet in the ear, and quite ripe, if the season should prove very wet, yet warm and genial; and it is scarcely necessary to state that this injures its quality for bread. 4202. Pot barley is barley of which the husk or outer skin only has been removed by mill-stones : it is used for making broth. 4203. Pearl barley is the small round kernel which remains after the skin and a considerable portion of the barley have been ground off. For this purpose the spring barley is chosen : it is steamed to soften the skin, dried, and passed between mUl-stones of a peculiar kind, to take off the husk, all except what lies in the deep furrow of the seed and which is the cause of the short dark line to be seen on pearl barley. The Scotch pearl barley is quite round, and is made from the sort called here, or bigg. A decoction of pearl barley was the " ptisan " of ancient medicine, now better known by the name of barley water. Besides its use in broth, it is sometimes boiled in water, and eaten as rice with milk. In Holland, pot barley boiled in buttermilk and sweetened with treacle is a common mess for children and servants. 4204. Patent barley, now much used for making barley water expeditiously, is the pearl barley ground to floui*. As pot and pearl barley are extremely wholesome and nutritious, it is to be regretted that they are not more used as food by the labouring classes in England, as they are in Scotland, Germany, and Holland. SuBSECT. 3. — Oats (_Arena saliva, Lin.), 4205. This grain prefers a cold climate, and is one of the hardiest of all the cereal plants. It cannot be cultivated in the southern parts of Europe, and is scarcely seen soutli of Paris. Even in England, its produce in the southern districts is inferior to that of the northern, and still more to that of Scotland. It has this advantage, that it will grow where neither wheat nor barley will flourish, and indeed on any land from the stiflFcst clays to crude mossy .soils, if sufficiently dry : it is also the most easily cultivated. Indeed.