ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 29i Book V. many of which were white upon a deep blue ground ; and others resembled agates, jasper and other stones. The modelling of many of them do infinite credit to the artists who executed them: and it is highly to be regretted that no works of the same merit now come from our potteries. After Mr. Wedgwood's decease, his establishment in London was given up, and Jus stock was sold ; part of which was purchased by Mr. PhiUips, and a remnant IS now to be seen in liis warehouse in Oxford Street. 1299. Of Wedgwood's manufacture, it was said by the celebrated Faujas Saint-Fond, " Its excellent workmanship, its solidity, the advantage which it possesses of standing the action of the fire, its fine glaze impenetrable to acids, the beauty, convenience, and variety of its forms, and its moderate price, have created a commerce so active and so universal, that in travelling from Paris to Petersburg, from Amsterdam to the farthest point of Sweden, and from Dunkirk to the southern extremity of France, one is served at every inn upon English stoneware. The same fine article adorns the tables of Spam, Portugal, and Italy; it provides the cargoes of ships in the East Indies, the \Vest Indies, and America." 1300. The usual processes by which the various kinds of pottery called ivhite stoneware, or Staffordshire ware, is manufactured, are the following: — The body of the ware is formed of a fine pipe or potter's clay mixed with calcined flints, and sometimes a little porcelain clay. The clay consists of 7G parts of silica and 24 parts of alumina; it is very refractory in strong heats, and burns very white in the fire ; properties which ren- der it extremely valuable for pottery. The best clay is found in Dorsetshire ; an inferior kind is procured in Devonshire. This clay is beat up with water, and then passed through fine sieves to separate all the coarse particles. The flints are burnt in kilns, and while hot are quenched in cold water, by which they are cracked through and through in innumerable places; after this they are gi-ound in mills to the consistence of cream. The porcelain clay consists of decomposed felspar, and, being entirely procured in Corn- wall, is called Cornish clay. The proportions of these materials are varied according to the particular kind of ware, or the skill and experience of the manufacturer, and each lias generally some mode of his own, which he keeps secret. They are mixed by mea- sure, and put into troughs to be reduced by evaporation to a proper consistence for moulding. When tempered in a pug mill, and brought into a plastic state, like a kind of dough, the clay is formed on the potter's wheel into plates, cups, saucers, basins, and all the various articles usually made. When these are half dried, they are finished by turn- ing in a lathe. Handles, spouts, bas-reliefs, and such parts, are made separately in moulds, and stuck on while the clay is soft by dipping them in some of the liquid clay. Plates are made by a mould into which is pressed clay rolled out, and are finished by turning the mould round. When the forms are complete, they'are dried, and the whole is placed in large cases made of burnt clay, called saggars, and burnt in the kiln to the state called biscuit, which has no gloss, and resembles in colour an egg-shell : it has the property of strongly imbibing moisture. The burning in kilns demands a great deal of fuel, and the abundance of this in Staffordshire is the chief reason why the potteries are established there ; but another is the facility of transporting the materials and manufac- tures by canals. A great deal of care is necessary in piling up the biscuit previous to burning; and the management of the fire is of great consequence. The baking usually lasts from forty to forty-two hours, and the ware is suffered to cool very slowly. The ware is now to be coloured or painted. Some of this is performed by hand with hair pencils; but the principal part of the ornament is often produced by the following process : — The pattern is engraved on a copper plate, and an impression is taken on thin unsized paper made on purpose, and previously immersed in strong soap water; this is applied in its moist state to the surface of the biscuit, which is of a very absorbent or adhesive quality ; the paper is then rubbed or pressed down by means of a roll of flannel. Afterwards the ware is dipped in water, and the paper is easily removed, leaving the impressions upon the surface : and after this the piece is dipped into a caustic alkaline ley, to saponify the oil before the glaze is applied. The pigment with which the lines of the engraved copper-plate are filled up depends upon the colour intended. The colour that has been most generally used is a pale blue, like that of the Chinese porcelain, which has a remarkable elegance and softness : this colour is a compound of arseniate of cobalt, ground up in boiled linseed oil and mixed ■with a proper flux. It is made darker or lighter according to the quantity of cobalt used. In some cases, where the engraved pattern is smaller than the surface to be covered, a very ingenious mode is employed. The impressions are taken upon an elastic substance, a composition of glue and treacle, or upon India rubber, which, being stretched to the due size, are applied to the biscuit. When the pieces thus painted have stood long enough to dry, they are placed in a gentle heat iu an oven, in order, by dissipating the oil that was used with the colour, to prepare the ware for receiving the glaze. This is transparent, as otherwise the distinct- ness of the pattern would be impaired.