1053 ESSENTIAL OILS, ETC. Chap. III. towels, brushes, and otlier apparatus for keeping everything perfectly clean, should be always at hand. Cupboards for keeping things out of the dust; and shelves along the walls to keep things on that are wanted often. On no account should any bottle or phial be suffered to remain without a carefully-made and accurate label, as numerous accidents have happened through neglect of this caution. A strong table, and two or three small ones, as well as stands ; a nest of drawers, to keep small articles and materials ; a grate, with a boiler on one side and an oven on the other are necessary : the latter will often be useful for drying things. Hobs of the grate should have a sort of canopy, to prevent dust from falling upon whatever is placed on them. 6285. For fuel, in the operations of the still-room, besides coal, coke and charcoal are wanted. Coke has the advantage of giving a great heat without any smoke ; the Statfordshire coke is the best, though dearest. Anthracite, likewise, gives no smoke. Charcoal is the best fuel for many nice operations. Boxes with fuel should be kept in the room : they may be on rollers to slide into recesses. See Section " On Fuel." 6286. The ivalls of the still-room should be whitewashed and painted of a light straw colour, both for the sake of having the most light, and that it may be easily renewed and kept perfectly clean. CHAP. ni. DESCRIPTION OF ESSENTIAL OILS, OR ESSENCES, AND THE MODE OF PREPARING THEM. 6287. We here beg to remind our readers of what has been stated in a previous part of this work, that vegetables yield two distinct kinds of oil: one called fxcd or fat oils, because they do not rise nor are volatilised except at such temperatures as are sufficient to decompose them; such is olive-oil. These are also termed expressed oils, because they are obtained by employing strong pressure. The other kind of oil is called volatile oil, because it rises by vapour at a gentle heat, and is easily obtained by distillation : these are also sometimes termed distilled oils and essential oils. 6288. The essence of a vegetable is a term that was given by the old chemists to that principle in which resided the taste and odour, as well as the pungency, which peculiarly distinguished it from other vegetables. Thus the fragrance of orange or lemon-peel, of peppermint, or of cinnamon, and the pungency of cloves, were found by experience to be separable from the other parts of the vegetable by means of distillation, &c.; and the result of this was a small portion of a highly aromatic and odoriferous oil, in which was contained the entire odour that had been dispersed through the whole mass; hence the oils thus procured obtained the name of essences. 6289. These essences or essential oils, most of which are highly odorous, furnish the most valuable materials to the perfumer (See "Perfumery," Book XIX., Chap. IX.), are employed in spirituous liquors used at the table, and in cookery, and likewise in medicine, painting, &c. They exist in various parts of plants : in some, as thyme, the oil is con- tained in all parts of the plant; in others it is contained only in the leaves, the fruits, the seeds, the flowers, the roots, or the bark. In some cases, different parts of the same plant contain different oils : the orange, for example, has three different oils ; one in the leaves, another in the flowers, and a third in the fruit. The quantity of oil varies not only with the species of plant, but with the soil and culture, and particularly with the climate ; thus, in hot climates, plants yield most essential oil. In some plants the oil does not escape in drying; others lose it immediately, particularly flowers. 6290. The essential oils are chiefly obtained by distillation : a few are obtained by expression, as those of the orange, lemon, and bergaiuot. To extract the odorous oils of certain flowers, as jessamine or tuberose, infusion in a fat oil is sufficient. These are called also volatile oils. Tlieir Insle is exoepilinKly hot .ind pungent, and in some, particiilnrly the oil of peppermint, followed by a rem.irlcable sensation of coldness, though tlic thcntiometric.il temper.itnre undergoes no cliiinge. The iicri. mony of some of the oils, as the oil of cloves, is so great as actually to destroy the outer skin of the tongue and (»f other sensible parts. They havts not always tlie same tastes with the plants tlieyare distilled from.tir, at lea.st. not in the same degree. Nothing is more hitter than wormwood ; yet the oM of wormwood has no remarkable bitterness. Anise, which is of a sweet taste, yields, on tlie contrary, an oil infinitely more sweet than the seed ; and pepper, which is so remark.ibly liot and acrid, afforils an oil no way remarkable for Its pungency. Thyme, which is in itself very .tcrld and pungent, conveys that property in a yet greater degree to its oil: there is, indeed, no essential oil so iicrid and fiery as that of this pliint. The number of these oils is so great as to baffle all enimieration, almost every odori- ferous plant being distinguished by a peculiar oil, to which it is indebted for its perfume. W