BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 592 3343. Malt liquor ts a beveraye much more common in Flanders and Germany tiian in France; the best beer is brewed from malted wheat mixed with malted barley • the first grain gives a peculiarly agreeable flavour. We have an interesting account of the Flemish beer from Mr. Richardson, a late celebrated English brewer. At Brussels they have two sorts of beer; one of a brownish-amber colour, called pictermun, strong and tolerably transparent, of a taste between bitter and sweet, but which, from not being well manu- factured, is very liable to turn acid in warm weather. The other sort of beer, called the " bierre blanche de Louvaine," or white beer of Louvaine, is found throughout the Nether- lands, and its manufacture constitutes the principal trade of Louvaine. The white beer is sweeter than the picterman, and much weaker. It is pale and turbid, and of the strength of table beer. Being bottled when it is new, it is extremely brisk. This is much relished by the Flemings, who consider it as a very wholesome and refreshing beverage ; and although Mr. Richardson brewed for them some excellent beer in the English mode, which they praised highly, yet they continued to adhere to their accustomed beverage which had pleased the palates of their ancestors, and which, though less scientifically made than ours, bad less intoxicating effect. A similar beer is made at Berlin. The white beer of Louvaine is made from air-dried malt, which was probably the original way of preparing it before kilns were employed. In Flanders and in Germany they dry their malt by spreading it on the floors of large lofty rooms which are attached to every brewery ; and the process can only be performed in the summer months when the temperature is sufiicient for the purpose. The fine ales were probably first intended to imitate the brisk white wines as nearly as possible, and consequently the paler and clearer the malt the fitter it was for the purpose. The proportion of hops in the Louvaine beer is very small, and the fermentation is carried on at a low temperature ; yet, in some places on the Continent, beer is not fermented before it is barrelled, but, after mashing and boiling, is put hot into the barrels, in which it ferments spontaneously. Brown malt seems to be peculiar to England, where porter originated. 3344. In Germany a great deal of malt liquor is drunk, made wholly from malt and hops. Bavaria is celebrated for its beer. Liebig states, In his work on " Chemistry applied to Agriculture and Physiology," that the Bavarian beer possesses the property of not becoming acetified, even when kept in vessels half filled. " This valuable quality is obtained for it by a peculiar management of the fermentation of the wort." " The wort, after having been treated with hops in the visual manner, is thrown into very wide flat vessels, in which a large surface of the liquid is exposed to the air. The fermentation is then allowed to proceed, while the temperature of the chambers in which the vessels are placed is never allowed to rise above from 45° to 50° Fahr. The fermentation lasts from three to six weeks; and the carbonic acid evolved during its continuance is not in large bubbles, which burst upon the surface of the liquid, but in small bubbles like those which escape from an acidulous mineral water, or by a liquid saturated by high pressure. The surface of the wort is scarcely covered with a scum, and all the yeast is deposited on the bottom of the vessel in the form of a viscous sediment." In this practice the principle appears to be, to render the fermentation very complete; and to exhaust entirely the fer- ment, or to render it incapable of exciting fermentation of any kind, and of course arrest- ing any progress that might be made to acescency. It is farther stated, that the various kinds of beer manufactured in Bavaria are distinguished by different flavours, which are given by allowing small quantities of the herbs and blossoms of particular plants to fer- ment along with the wort. The price of beer in Bavaria is regulated by law every year, according to the price of barley, and there is but one strength of beer made, the duty on malt amounting to half its v?lue. The strength is a quarter of malt to three bai'rels and a half, or rather less, of beer The summer beer, when made, is first put into large open barrels used for the slow fermentation, during which time small casks are filled from them and sent out daily to the publican for immediate consumption. The winter beer is put into closed casks, and is as bright as wine, and extremely brisk. The beer of Augs- burgh is remarkable for having a pitchy taste, communicated purposely by pitching the insides of their store vats. 3345. Prague is also famed for beer, which is reckoned next in quality to the Bavarian. The beer vaults of Prague are of the very best kind ; and as the floor of the cellar is always covered with a thick layer of ice, on which the casks of beer are placed, the beer is sent out to be drunk in a chilly state. 3346. In Brunswick a remarkably strong beer is made, called Mumme, arid large quan- tities of this used to be imported in the latter end of the sixteenth century, when it was mentioned in the excise laws. This German beer was made in the towns of Lubeck and Rostock, which were famous for its production. So great was the trade in it, that 800,000 barrels were annually exported under the name of Lubeck beer. The city of Rostock con- tained 250 licensed breweries ; and the most considerable part of the Duke of Mecklen- burgh's revenue arose out of the excise laid on the beer brewed in these cities. This strong Lubeck beer was produced by using double the usual quantity of malt of wheat, with oat-