C0.5 Chap. IV. FOREIGN WINES. by withdrawing the cork, is disengaged with noise and violence, giving the appearance described by tlie term briskness, such as is seen in the common Champagne. From the above description, we may see that it is easy from the same grape juice to make any of the three classes of wine, by certain management in the inanufacturc, for which more particular directions will be given when we treat of the making of domestic wines. 3419. IT'Sni is termed the bouquet of wines is that agreeable aromatic odour which is perceived on drawing the cork of any of the finer wines on their exposure to the air. In some of the Burgundies and other French.wines it is highly ricli, and does not seem like a single perfume, but rather as the union of several. This aroma, so much valued in some wines, cannot be accurately described by words, and must act upon the senses, to be com- prehended. It appears to depend upon a fugacious principle, probably some extremely volatile oil, which the chemist has not yet been able to separate, perhaps from the quan- tity being too minute. In the sweet and half fermented white wines, this is immediately derived from the fruit, as in those from the Frontignan and Muscat grapes ; but in the more perfect red wines, as in claret. Hermitage, Rivesaltes, and Burgimdy, it bears no resemblance to the natural flavour of the grapes' from which they are made, and is altogether the product of the vinous process. This delicate aroma, when it exists, considerably enhances the quality and value of the first wines, and it is dissipated and lost by too rapid a fermentation. Liebig has lately described this volatile substance, the pro- duce of the fermentation, as a peculiar ether, which he has named ananthic ether. The wines of warm climates have no odour ; those of France have it in a considerable degree, but the perfume is the most intense in the best Rhenish wines. 3420. Theflavoui of wines, called by the French seve, is different from the bouquet; the former indicates the vinous power and aromatic savour which are felt in the act of swallowing the wine, whereas the latter affects the organ of smell, rather than that of taste. In the red wines of Medoc and the Graves, these, the seve and bouquet, are developed only in the old wines. A fictitious bouquet is sometimes given to new wines by means of orris root. 3421. It is not an uncommon thing for the manufacturers of loine to mix two or more wines together, in order to produce one of better quality^ by correcting the defects of each other. By this mixing, the fermentative process is partially renewed, and the mixture is said to fret; hence the practice is called fretting in. Mixed wines appear to unite into one ■ durable and homogeneous liquor only in consequence of this kind of fermentation. 3422. Boiled wines, or vino cotlo.— In our account of the wines of the ancients (Sect. II. Subsect. 11.) we shall find that it was their practice to concentrate the must by boiling; thus increasing the relative quantity of sugar and fermenting principle by reducing the water. This method is still followed in some parts of Europe, as in Greece, Italy, and Spain. The richest grapes of the Muscadine species are chosen for this purpose ; and after having been exposed for a few days to the sun, they are pressed in the usual manner, and the Juice boiled till it is reduced to one-third. It is then skimmed and put into vessels to ' cool, after which it is barrelled up. These wines are very pleasant to the taste, of a deep ; amber colour, delicate and generous. Mr. Redding states that Corsica is famous for such ■ wines, which are treated so judiciously by boiling, that in the north of Europe they are 1 taken for Malaga or Canary. When very old, they are often passed off for Cyprus, Tinto, 1 or Malaga, of the best kind, as the owner may wish them to seem. But many boiled • wines, as they experience very little fermentation, scarcely deserve the name of wines, : and are little more than boiled must; of this kind are several varieties of the vino cotto I of Italy, particularly near Bologna. Sect. II. DESCUIPTION OF FOREIGN WINES. 3423. It is not our object to attempt the complete description of the vast number of ■ wines produced in various parts of the world ; we shall confine ourselves to such as are i imported into Britain, or have acquired such celebrity as to be pretty generally known ; amongst us. This subject may be considered as so much the more important, since i immense sums are annually expended in the purchase of foreign wines, yet an accurate I knowledge respecting the true merit and value of the various kinds is little diffused, ; and money is sometimes injudiciously expended on this class of luxuries. It will be most I convenient to treat of the wines of various coimtries separately. StJBSECT. 1. — French Wines. 3424. France, owing to her fine climate, and the great fertility and variety of her soil, 1 is eminently calculated for the manufacture of wine. In that country, also, scientific 1 principles have been applied to it with great success. Not only is wine produced in