FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 948 BOOK XVIL ON THE VAKIOUS TEXTILE FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. CHAP. I. ON DRESS IN GENERAL; SPINNING AND AVEAATNG. Sect. I. GENERAL EEMARKS. 5582. Clothing, taken in its extended sense, may be considered as an expensive, and in every way an interesting part of domestic economy. In the materials for dress we include not only all clotlis and tissues vsed for male and female attire, together with the articles made from leather, from skins, and from furs, but also the ornamental parts of dress, as feathers, artificial flowers, and the multitude of decorative appendages compre- hended under the term "jewellery." Some articles that enter into the composition of dress are of great intrinsic value; while others, though not costly in themselves, are attended with a very considerable expense from the frequency of change which the laws of fashion impose. Since this expenditure cannot be avoided, it is a matter deserving consideration how it may be most economically and properly regulated. In this inquiry, attention should be directed rather to the quality than to the price of the materials, since cheapness, unless resulting from fair and open competition in trade, is a very equivocal criterion. Every merchantable commodity must yield a profit to the manufacturer, to the wholesale dealer, and to the retailer ; and in the regular course of trade, no portion of these profits can be abandoned without a prospect of compensation in deteriorating the article. The substitution of machinery for manual labour may, from time to time, occasion a reduction of the original cost price, of which the public rarely fails to reap the benefit: but this causes very little change in the gradation of profits, which are small if the demand be constant, and considerable if the article be costly and slow of sale. Here it will perhaps be objected, that rules for purchasing the materials for manu- factured goods are now rendered almost unnecessary, by the changes that have taken- place in the mode of supplying the principal articles of fashionable attire. The tailor, invading the province of the woollen-draper, undertakes to furnish complete suits by contract at a stipulated price ; and the milliner, by a similar extension of her original calling, supplies her customers with every novelty of the season in a finished state. Yet even in these cases, it may be useful to possess such a knowledge of the qualities of goods as may enable the purchaser to discover whether an inferior article has been substituted for that which was ordered, or whether the terms of the contract have been strictly- fulfilled. The same power of discrimination is highly useful in the selection of those fabrics which are still purchased by the piece or yard, and made up at home, or under the express direction of the purchaser; and it often happens that a mere hint, or a tech- nical expression casually uttered, will frustrate many of those stratagems of trade which some dealers think themselves justified in practising on the unwary. In all transactions relating either to the purchase or disposal of jewellerj', in particular, a certain degree of skill and experience is indispensably necessary, and may be acquired without much difficulty. 5583. It is foreign to our object to enter into the history of dress or costume, or to point out the numerous fashions that have existed amongst us of late : the prevailing taste of the day, in this respect, is well understood ; but the forms of dress being continually subject to the arbitrary rule of fashion arc seldom permitted to be regulated by individual feeling of convenience or utility. There arc, however, some philosophical or physical principles established respecting clothing that are permanent, and it is to these that we wish to direct the reader's attention. 5584. The usual temperature of the body is about 98° ; and its warmth is derived from the decomposition of the air taken in by respiration, which is necessary to supply the continual loss of heat we are liable to. Clothing cheeks or prevents, in some degree, this loss • and it follows, of course, tliat the materials which are the best non-conductors form the warmest clothing. But there are several other circumstances to be taken info mu-