MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. H3*I'. IV. 38S 1 ■9f>4 The crowdie <tf Inivtiiess ami ilnss-shire is made (nccordiiiK to the celebrated M^gg Dnds) by " viorV- ■ ■ to 'Cther well two parts of fresh sweet milk curd and one of t'rcsh butter. It is then pressed into a shape, ! 1 turned out, when it will slice well. It is eaten for breakfast. When put up in vessels it will keep lor .inths, and become very high-Bavoured, but mellow. The Arabian clieese is made in this way in vals." 11955. The supjjh/ of such a metropolis as London with milk is, as may be supposed, a rr)' extensive concern. It has been stated that the number of cows kept for this pur- ^se in the environs of London amounts to 12,000, chiefly of the short-horn breed, and ccat part of the land in the vicinity is devoted to this object; besides which, a great lal of milk and cream is now brought from the distance of five to twenty miles in the luntry in tin vessels slung in light spring carts : and, as the means of conveyance are ij proved, the inhabitants of I^ondon may expect a more plentiful supply of this necessary ■ licle of food, to which we may add, and of a superior quality ; for it cannot be expected, jat milk procured from cows shut up and fed on distilled grains can equal that produced cows whose health is supported by grass, and living much in the open air. If they t'j not well fed in winter they often lose their milk. The most considerable London liries are, one at Islington belonging to Mr. Rhodes, another to Mr. Laycock, and the so Jled Metropolitan Dairy in Edgeware Road. The first is the most complete establish- i3nt, containing, on an average, 400 cows. In this the cows are fed on brewers' grains, i. Jether with green food and succulent roots, and the whole place is kept extremely clean id -well ventilated, but the cows are never allowed to go out Mr. Laycock suffers his »ws to be out .some time every day, which we think is the best practice. Each cow is oowed a portion of salt. The breed in most esteem with the London cow-keepers is the il Yorkshire stock, or a cross between the Teeswater and the Holderness, as producing e; greatest quantity of milk, though it is not of the richest quality. These cows ai-e I nferred also, from their great disposition to fatten, for the butcher, lit is publicly stated, that it is the practice of some cow-keepers to put by the milk got ;im the cow at night until the morning, and, when the cream is skimmed off, it is sold '. morning's milk. The next morning's milk is treated in a like manner, and sold as sniug's milk. The water afterwards is added by the retailers. We trust this practice r.not universal. It is well known that what is sold for cream is not of first-rate quality : ■ t the sophistications, if any, are too little understood to be easily exposed. ;1956. Adulteration of' milk is very generally complained of, and had, no doubt, been ri meriy practised to a greater extent than at present, since the means of detection have ten pointed out by chemistry. Perhaps the most usual kind of adulteration employed ppresent is diluting it with water; and it is not easy to detect this fraud, except it be rrried too far. It is true that the addition of water renders milk of less density or spe- iuc gravity ; yet as pure milk varies considerably in this respect, according to the food r/en to the cattle, and other circumstances, a variation in its weight, except it be very nnsiderable, would not prove that water had been added. M. Barruel, a chemist of irris, has hivestigated the adulteration of milk with much care, milk-dealers having oen as dishonest in that capital as with us: Jind he has shown that they increased the i jcific gravity of watered milk by the addition of another substance, as sugar, which "O took off the flat taste given by water, and thus rendered the detection difficult even tthe lactometer, an instrument for measuring the specific gravity of milk. Water gives )imilk a bluish colour; and, to conceal this, it is said that chaUv, and also w'heat flour, vve been added. Chalk is easily found out, because it settles to the bottom after a couple hhours, and then the bluish colour returns ; and any person, even of indiflferent delicacy j'palate, could distinguish the altered taste of the milk. Boiling the flour in the water \;vents its settling like chalk; but the existence of any kind of flour or meal may be ■ected by employing iodiyte, which strikes a blue colour with the starch of the flour, rr this purpose, add to the milk or cream suspected some iodine in alcohol, to be had of } 7 respectable chemist; and if there be any flour, arrow-root, starch, or rice, it will be Dwn by a beautiful blue making its appearance. 11957. To prevent milk from turning sour in hot weather, the milkmen of Paris have been ithe habit of employing a little subcarbonate of soda or of potash. This, by combining h and neutralising the acetic acid formed, has the desired effect, and keeps the milk Km turning so soon as it otherwise would: the salt that is thus formed, viz. the acetate -soda or of potash, is not at all injurious; and, as pure milk does contain a small quan- • of this salt, it is difficult to pronounce upon the addition of any alkali, except there ^•uld be some in a free or uncombined state, which does not exist in milk. T'he addition ;i I little carbonate of potash will break down the curd that is beginning to form in con- ' ncnce of souring, or a little calcined magnesia will produce the same effect; but this ion is not unwholesome. )•<. The possession of a cow affords the most certain method of obtaining pure milk and nil : and it is scarcely necessary here to remark upou the numerous advantages which I uiiily may derive from it; such as butter churned fresh for breakfast, syllabubs, milk .1, whether in the shape'of porridge, arrow root, and other |)reparations for children, r- the management of a cow, see " Dairy," in a future part of tliis work. C c