515 Book VIII. WATER. BOOK Vlli. ON THE VARIOUS BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. CHAP. I. WATER. Sect. I. INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 2874. In the following account of water, we propose to confine ourselves chiefly to the consideration of those properties which relate to its use as a heverage, either alone, or as an ingredient in the preparations of the various kinds of drink which we shall describe ; and to its employment in the culinary art. 2875. As a beverage, the qualities of water differ materially, every one is sensible of the great difference between that of a soft and clear spring, and that of a stagnant pool; and persons much accustomed to this simple beverage can distinguish flavours in it which are not sensible to others. The value of purity in water is universally admitted, but it requires to be explained in what that purity consists; for it can be shown that water absolutely pure is not the fittest for many purposes. All water in a natural state is impregnated with a certain proportion of air, which is highly useful; and of many other 1 substances found more or less in water, some are harmless, while others are extremely : prejudicial. 2876. TTie most general distinction of water is into hard and soft, and both the cook and • the laundress may practically be good judges of these properties; yet we do not consider it sufficient to possess this merely practical knowledge; we shall therefore enter more minutely into the natural history and details respecting a liquid in such universal use, ; and of such serious importance to the health and comfort of families. 2877. With this view we propose first to enquire into the chemical nature of water as ; a liquid body, and we will afterwards examine the properties of the several kinds which : are obtained from difierent sources, and which are found in various situations in the I earth; to which will be added instructions as to the best modes of supplying and pre- : serving it. Sect. II. OF the composition and GENERAL PROPERTIES OF WATER. 2878. In order to have a clear idea of the nature of water we must take a view of its 1 chemical constitution. 2879. Water was long considered as one of (lie natural elements, and consequently was • supposed to be simple, and incapable of being decomposed, or separated into other sub- stances. The discoveries of chemistry, however, have proved that this fluid is, in fact, a ■ chemical combination of two kinds of gas or air, which of themselves are invisible. The ' nature of these gases has been mentioned in Book III. " On Ventilation;" but as a • certain degree of repetition is unavoidable in a work like the present, it will be proper to ; speak of them again as the elements of water. 2880. Tlic two gases of which water is composed are oxygen and hydrogen. Oxygen is ■ that gas which we formerly stated to enter into the composition of the atmosphere which we breathe, and without which, indeed, life could not be supported : hydrogen is an in- flammable body, and is the basis of the gas now so much employed in lighting our streets. But water is not a mere mechanical mixture of these two kinds of air, for if a portion of each of them be merely introduced into one vessel, water will not be the result. In order to produce the fluid we are treating of, these gases must be united in what is termed a chemical mode, that is, by a particular and intimate union very different from simple mixture. There is no doubt that water is thus formed daily by many natural processes, some of which are connected with meteorological phenomena. The fact of the composi- tion of water was first shown by Mr. Cavendish, who demonstrated it by burning oxygen and hydrogen gases in a dry glass vessel, by which a quantity of pure water was generated exactly equal in weight to that of the gases which had disappeared. 2881. 13}i ingenious experiments, water can be separated into its elementary constituents, oxygen and hydrogen; and by another process these very constituents can be made to re-unite, and form the same quantity of water as was decomposed. There is, therefore, LI 2