VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Chap. VII. 445 2324. Starch has the remarkable property of assumiruj a blue colour, by means of the substauce called iodine, which is accordingly employed as a test for ascertaining its presence. Sect. III. GLUTEN. 2325. In the experiment with wheat flour which was mentioned above, when starch was separated by washing, a viscid substance remained in the hand, which received the name of vegetable gluten from its discoverer Beccaria on account of its resemblance to glue. It is a grey, viscid, tenacious, and ductile substance, insoluble in cold water, that may be stretched out in a manner somewhat like Indian rubber. It is foimd more or less in a great variety of plants, but very abundantly in the kinds of grain used for making bread. Wheat contains the largest portion of it; and this is one reason why wheaten bread is superior to that made from other kinds of grain, for gluten is the most nutritious principle, though not the most abundant, contained in vegetables. It is the gluten in wheat flour that renders it so proper for light fermented bread, by occasioning its making a tenacious paste with cold water, the viscid elastic nature of which enables the carbonic acid disengaged during fermentation to form numerous vesicles that distend the mass of dough, and produce what is called the rising. This will be fully explained under the article " Making Bread." 2326. But it has been shown by EinhofF that the viscid substance which we have men- tioned as obtained by kneading wheat flour is not pure gluten, but consists of gluten and another vegetable principle, called vegetable albumen. They may be separated from each other by boiling in alcohol, or by kneading them with the hand in alcohol; the latter being soluble, and the former insoluble, in it. 2327. Pure gluten, thus obtained, is of a full yellow colour, with a slight balsamic taste and a peculiar odour ; it is very tenacious and elastic, and does not dissolve in cold water ; but though gluten is so nutritive, it is only so when imited with other vegetable principles, for by itself it is scarcely digestible. When kept moist in a warm place it ferments, and disengages carbonic acid, but afterwards gives out acetic acid, which is the cause of the sourness perceived in leavened bread; in a few days, if left to itself, it acquires a smell and taste much like cheese, then it putrefies, and gives out an offensive odour like animal matter. When exposed to the air, it gradually dries, and becomes hard and brittle, like glue, from which property it has been employed to mend broken china. It loses its tenacity entirely by boiling. Gluten, though insoluble in water alone, forms a compound with acetic acid or vinegar that is soluble in water; and this is the reason why, in the manufacture of starch, just described, the souring, or formation of vinegar, acts upon the gluten that was united to the starch, and thus removes it from the latter. Gluten dLtfers from all the other vegetable proximate principles, except vegetable albu- men, in containing gluten, of which it contains from 14 to 20 per cent., and this is sup- posed to be the cause of its being so nutritious. Sect. IV. VEGETABLE ALBUMEN. 2328. Albumen has lately been discovered to be common to the vegetable as well as to the animal kingdom, though in a smaller quantity. In its pure state it is a thick, glairy, tasteless- fluid, analogous to white of egg. It is found abundantly in the juices of green leaves, as well as in the flour firom wheat. It resembles gluten considerably in its composition, con- taining also nitrogen, but it is soluble in alcohol, and in cold water, which gluten is not. When the juice of cabbage leaves, or other similar plants, is pressed out and passed through a cloth, it is not at once transparent, but a fine green powder is suspended in it which will require a week to settle to the bottom: this is called green fecula, and it consists of three substances ; 1. a green colouring matter which is resinous ; 2. woody fibre that has been entangled in the juice; 3. vegetable albumen. If a glass bottle filled with the green juice as soon an it is filtered, and before it has time to settle, be placed in a vessel with boihng water, the liquor will deposit a flocculent or cheesy matter, which consists of the albumen, which has coagulated by the heat; and as it resembles the white of egg, when washed and deprived of colour, it has received the name of albumen, though not absolutely identical with animal albumen : it appears to be sometimes a vegeto-animal substance. It can scarcely be necessary to state that this principle contained in the juice must coagulate in the same manner as animal albumen when vegetables are boiled; and on this depends the method taken to clarify many vegetable juices. It is found in many plants; in nuts, grains, ajiples, grapes, and fruit of all kinds ; in flowers, young shoots of trees, green leaves, &c. It abounds in the juice of the Papau tree ; when this juice is boiled, the albumen falls down in a coagulated state; it is like-