ON FERMENTATION. 551 Chap. II. N n 4 another bottle, which was then closely corked, and placed in a temperature varying from 60° to 80°. In eight days it had lost its transparency, fermented, and was changed into a vinous liquor, frothing like the best Champagne. A similar bottle of juice that had not been thus opened, and exposed to the contact of air, although placed in the same circumstances, exhibited no signs of fermentation. He next passed a portion of juice into a vessel filled with and inverted over mercury, and added to it a small quantity of oxygen gas ; and another portion Qf juice he confined in a similar vessel, perfectly freed from aii-. The former fermented in a few days, but the latter gave no signs of fermentation, even at the end of forty days. Similar results were obtained in experiments on the preserved juice of gooseberries ; and he found the same thing to hold with regard even to the juice of fresh fruit. He passed some entire grapes into a vessel over mercury, and added to them hydrogen gas repeatedly, with the desire of removing all atmospheric air; the fruit was then broken down by passing a wire into the jar, and the vessel was left in a temperature of from 59° to 68°. At the end of twenty-five days it exhibited no signs of ferment- ation ; but this process commenced the same day in juice to which a little oxygen had been added, and was also rapidly excited in the former portions when a little of that gas was supplied. Grape juice could not be made to ferment when the air was completely excluded; but, on admitting a very small quantity of oxygen, this gas was absorbed, and fermentation commenced, and continued independently of any further contact of oxygen. But a solution of sugar, mixed with yeast, fermented even in closely corked bottles, therefore without access of air ; from which Gay Lussac concluded that there must be a difference between the natural ferment in the grape, and the artificial ferment yeast. The applica- tion of these experiments is obvious, not only in the preparation of fermented liquors, but also, as we shall afterwards see, in the preservation of vegetable and animal food. Exposure to the air, therefore, or the presence of oxygen, is necessary to fermentation in the first instance. But it is only necessary at the commencement, and for a very short period, so that when once the process has begun, in the case of natural ferment or mere juices, it goes on in closed vessels: the reason of this is, probably, that the artificial ferment contains oxygen itself sufficient to begin the process, and in the case of natural ferment, the very air contained in the wood of the cask is often sufiicient. .3109. It is certain that the carbonic acid which escapes during fermentation holds in solu- tion a considerable portion of alcohol, as is proved by a vessel of water placed near to the fermenting vessel absorbing alcohol, and being distinctly impregnated with it; and likewise by the intoxicating effect produced by the fermentative process on those persons who are much exposed to the fumes. The real loss of alcohol, however, from this cause, though important in a large manufactory, is not deserving of attention in domestic practice. 3110. Several inventions have been made for fermenting in tuns closed, instead of being open to the air, but their advantages are not very obvious, even in the large way, where the loss of alcohol may be considered as of most importance. Some suppose that the exclusion of the common air may prevent the liquor from passing into the acetous fer- mentation ; but it should be recollected that while the vinous fermentation is going on, the whole surface of the fermenting fluid is covered with a stratum of carbonic acid gas, which effectually excludes the atmosphere; and it is only when the vinous fermentation has ceased, that common air can come in contact with the liquor. 3111. Fermentation is considerably influenced by the mechanical agency of the atmosphere, that is, by its pressure. The pressure of the atmosphere retards it, and when that is removed, it goes on more rapidly. If liquor to be fermented be put into a well-corked bottle, the fermentation takes place, in time; but the process is very slow, because the carbonic acid formed during the process cannot escape ; it is absorbed by the liquid as soon as it is formed, and this will go on until the liquor is thoroughly saturated with the gas; and then, there being no farther room for this gas, it cannot be generated, and the fermentation is suspended. Liquor in this state will be thoroughly impregnated with carbonic acid gas, and hence the briskness of bottled malt liquor. But if there be facility for the escape of the carbonic acid, the fermentation proceeds; and hence, if bottles are badly corked, the vinous fermentation continues until it passes into the acetous stage, the liquor becoming sour. In brewing in the large way, means have sometimes been con- trived of regulating the rapidity of the fermentation by preventing, in some degree, the escape of the carbonic acid gas, and thus subjecting the fermenting fluid to the pressure of this gas. 3112. The quantity of the fermenting liquor has also an effect upon the fermentation. Chaptal observed that grape juice contained in a small cask did not finish its fermentation until the eleventh day, while a large tub, which contained twelve times the quantity, com- pleted its fermentation in four days. 3113. The temperature of the fermenting liquor is oiso influenced by the quantity. The heat of the liquor in the cask just mentioned never exceeded 74° while that of the larffe