1-10 Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. being further from the flame at that place, than close to the wick, and therefore being less exposed to heat. Tills cup is filled, or nearly so, with the melted material, which is thus ready to be drawn up by the capillary attraction of the wick. 652. A candle, therefore, though apparently very simple, is so far curious, that it is, in fact, a kind of lamp that continually keeps melting its own combustible. If the flame should melt more than it can consume, it is evident that the melted matter would accumulate, and at last overflow the cup, which does take place in what is termed the guttermy of the candles. Now the thinner the wick the less fluid it will draw up : and it is also evident that the more fusible a substance, the more will be melted at the same distance from the flame. If, therefore, a wax candle and one of tallow were both made with wicks of the same size, and if the wick of the wax-light were properly proportioned to the consumption, that of the tallow-candle would not be able to draw up and consume all the melted tallow, which would exceed the melted wax from the greater fusibility of the former. 653. It is necessary, therefore, to make the wick of the tallow-candle thicker than that of the wax candle, to enable it to consume a sufficiency without the cup overflowing. But we have explained, when describing flame and the burning of lamps, that a thick wick (jcca- " sions a good deal of smoke from the escape of the unburnt carbon vapour in the interior of the flame. The great size of the wick has another bad effect; for, as it does not bend on one side, like the wick of a wax candle, a deposition of this imburnt carbon takes place upon it as it lengthens, and of course projects into the hollow of the flame ; and at last it becomes covered with a great quantity of soot in a sort of fungus or mushroom form, that still further increases the evil ; a candle in this state does not give above one-tenth of the light of one newly snuffed. It is necessary, therefore, to take off this accumulation, together with the upper part of the wick, now lengthened by the diminution of the tallow, which process constitutes the snuffing of the candle. If the progress of the candle be observed, this is easily to be understood. It bm-ns with a bright light when it is first snuffed of a proper length, because there is very little smoke, the flame being able to con- sume nearly all the fluid that is drawn up ; but as the wick lengthens, more fluid is drawn up than can be consumed, and therefore a large portion escapes through the top of the flame in the form of smoke. If the wick is snuffed too short, it is not able to draw up and consume so much tallow as is melted, and therefore the latter accumulates till it almost, extinguishes the light, except it be relieved by the margin of the cup breaking down, which is generally the case: then the candle imraediatelj' burns with unusual brightness. It is therefore of the utmost importance in tallow candles, that the size of the wick and the thickness of the candle should be accurately proportioned to each other. 654. The wax candle admits of a smaller wick than the tallow candle, from the less fusi- bility of the wax; for a large wick is not necessary in order to consume the melted con- tents of the cup : but we showed, when treating on the subject of lamps, that the smaller the flame the brighter it is, there being least unconsumed vapour in the centre, and the smallest flame gives likewise the least smoke. The superiority of the wax candle, there- fore, consists in this: that, from the smaller degree of fusibility of wax than of tallow, we can afford to make the wick of a wax candle thinner in proportion than that of a tallow candle, the flame being, at the same time, more brilliant. This thinness of the wick also causes it to bend of itself, till its extremity comes outside the flame, and then the part which projects is burnt to ashes by its contact with the air : wax-candles, therefore, require no snuffing, there being no accumulation on the wick, which is kept short by being burnt, as we have mentioned. 655. The folhwing degrees offusibility of different substances will point out their relative advantages. Palm oil melts at 84째 ; tallow at 92째 ; spermaceti at 133째 ; and wax at 155째. 656. TIlc goodness of candles depending upon the inferior degree of fusibility of the ma- terial, it is obvious why the employment of too much mutton fat, or kitchen stuff, dete- riorates them, independently of the bad smell of the latter: and that one of the modes of improving candles is to discover a material of the least fusibility compared to its price. 657. The disarp-eeahle smell of a candle or lamp carelessly bloivn out, is caused by the vapour of the tallow or oil, rising for a few moments from the red-hot wick, and escaping into the air of the room unburnt. The extinguisher, by fitting close on to the cup of the candle, confines this vapour, and prevents the annoying smell. 658. Candles have a great advantage over every other kind of light, in their great portability and cleanliness; and they are free from the great trouble of cleaning and trimming of lamps. Small oil lamps are now made very portable; but if of the simple kind, they always give smoke and smell, except the oil is particularly pure. The solar lamp, to be afterwards described, is made conveniently small. It has not been found practicable to construct the Argandlamp, so as to have no greater flame than that of a single candle, nor to burn so little oil as to be as economical. Upon the whole, tlierefore, for economical and ordinary domestic purposes, no other light is found so convenient as candles: well madt' dipped candles give the most light in proportion to their expense, and are preferable