ON FOOD. Book VII. 508 considered as the most wholesome of all confectionery. The fruit grows in clusters on the tree, which is of the palm tribe, rising with a single stem to the height of fifteen or twenty feet, and having leaves only at top, each of which is about six feet long and two feet broad. The whole spike and fruit often weigh forty or fifty pounds. SuDSECT. 3.—Mango (Mangifera Indica, Linn.). 2823. The mango (fg. 519.) is one of the most grateful to Europeans of all the tropical fruits. It resembles a short thick cucumber in form, and grows upon trees forty or fifty feet high : it has a thin skin, and on removing this, tlie interior consists of a pulp which melts in tiie mouth with a cooling sweetness, and a delicious, aromatic, and sub-acidulous taste. It is sometimes cut into slices and eaten with wine, or it is candied to preserve it. In the heart is a small stone. The mangoes of Asia are said to excel those of America. 2824. Ill India they are constantly at the dessert in the hot months, and no fruit is held in such high estimation ; it is ex- tremely wholesome and nutritious. The green fruit is made into jellies, conserves, tarts, &c. The ripe is very perishable, and cannot be brought to this country except pickled, from which no idea can be formed of their exquisite flavour : altogether they are considered as one of the chief dainties of the vegetable world, and are consequently cultivated wherever the climate admits of it and the arts of civilisation have penetrated. There are many varieties, some of which are ill flavoured. 282.'). By the Hindoos the wood of the tree is consecrated to the service of the dead, and used for coflins and funeral piles. From the flour of the dried keraels several kinds of food are prepared, and the stalks are employed with the betel nut. 2826. The mango has been fruited both in France and England. If a few worked plants could be had from Jamaica, and a stove fitted up for them, there is little doubt, according to Mr. Knight, that the fruit might be had upon the table as easily as the pine- apple. ScBSECT. 4. — Mangostan {Garcinia Mangostana). 2827. This {Jig. 520.) is one of the most delicious fruits in the world, and grows in Sumatra, Java, and other islands of the Indian Ocean. The fruit is about the size and .shape of the orange, surrounded by a thin shell. The pulp is juicy, and of an exquisite flavour, partaking of that of the pine-apple and strawberry, though some have compared it to other combinations of the best fruits. It is also very wholesome, and is almost the only fruit allowed to some invalids, being cooling, and a happy mixtm-e of the tart and the sweet. The tree is about twenty feet liigh, and extremely beautiful. Fig. 520. Fig. 521. SuBSECT. 5.—A/cu {Blighia sapida, H. R.). esteemed. The fruit is a pome about tlie size ot a goose s egg, naving a graieiiu suo-aciu flavour, and being very wholesome and nutritive. It has been planted in this country, and it is thought may, in a few years, produce fruit as easily as the orange. Sdbsect. G. — Bread Fruit {Artocarpus, Liun.) 2829. This vei-y important fruit was originally found in the south-east parts of Asia, and the islands of the Pacific. There are two species of bread fruit, the Artocarpus