477 (CiiAP. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. fare large, thick, oblong, glossy, pointed at both ends, and slightly indented. These latter Heaves have a bitter styptic, taste, accompanied with a flavour resembling that of bitter . ahnonds, or other kernels of the drupaceous fruits. This kernel-like flavour being agree- able has occasioned them to be employed for culinary purposes, especially in custards, I puddings, blanc mange, &c., and then, as the proportion of the sapid matter of the leaf is i usiuiUy diluted in a large proportion of milk, bad effects have seldom or never ensued from I its use. But as the Prussic acid developed by the action of water on laurel leaves is I known to be a violent poison, it is necessary that the public should be cautioned with I respect to its properties, lest too much should be used on some occasions ; since in the 1 process of making laurel water by distillation it is sufficiently powerful to occasion death, i and persons have been poisoned by drinking laurel water by mistake. Sect. XII. PLANTS USED IN TARTS. CONFECTIONERY, AND DOirESTIC SIEDICINE. 2574. The list of this class of plants as used formerly was more considerable than at ■ present; many of those employed by the ancient herbalist having given way to the : abundance of foreign splcery and the more powerful medicines of the chemist. Those • which we shall describe are still cultivated, and are all useful, particularly in retired situ- : ations in the country, where a druggist is not at hand. SuBSECT. 1.—Rhubarb (^Rlieum, Linn.). 2575. This is one of the most useful and best of all the productions of the garden that : are put into pies and puddings. It was comparatively little known till within the last ■ twenty or thirty years, but it is now cultivated in almost every British garden. The part used is the footstalks of the leaves, which, peeled and cut into small pieces, are put into tarts, either mixed with apples or alone. When quite young, they are much better : not peeled. 2576. 77ie culture of the tart rhubarb has increased very rapidly of late, in consequence ' of the great demand for it, and consequently it is at present sold at a very cheap »ate. It comes in season when apples are going out. 2577. There are several varieties of this plant: common rhubarb (Rheum rhaponticum, Linn.) called also Monk's rhubarb, is a native of Asia, but has been cultivated in England since 1573. It is much improved by blanching. The Hybrid rhubarb (Rheum hybridum. Linn.) is also a native of Asia, but from a more northern part. It was first cultivated as a garden plant by Dr. Fothergill in 1778, and is now in general use, the leaves being much larger and more succulent than the common sort. JSlford rhubarb, or scarlet rliubarb (Rheum undulatum), is considered by gardeners to have the finest flavour, and when cooked is of a bright scarlet; it is free from that peculiar taste which occasions common rhubarb to be disliked by some persons. Turkey rhubarb (Rheum palmatum) is a most elegant plant, but its leaf stalks are small. It is the root of this which forms the well-known medicinal drug, but its virtues are not so well developed in this climate as in Tartary, from which the rhubarb of the druggist is brought to us by the way of Turkey, India, and Russia. SuBSECT. 2 Gourd (Cucurhita, Linn.). 2578. TTie gourd constitutes a large family; some varieties are very beautiful, and are cultivated for ornament; some grow to an immense size, and are kept more as matters of curiosity, and others are cooked in a variety of ways. In warm climates, and particularly when well manured, it grows luxuriantly in the open air, and is extremely ornamental. It is much employed as food on the continent of Europe, and in America. It is exten- sively used in soups, stews, and pies, and is also .sent to table boiled and served with toast and melted butter, or fried with butter, the last being by far the best mode of cooking it. The tender shoots and young leaves are boiled as greens or spinach, and the flowers and young shoots make an excellent dish fried. It is only beginning to be appreciated in Britain, though one variety, the pompion ov pumpkin (C. Peto, Linn.), has long been eaten in England by the poorer classes, generally mixed with apples and baked in a pie: it is sometimes boiled in milk ; this is, however, the most insipid of the gourds. A great many ways of dressing the diiferent varieties of pumpkins may be seen in the French and Italian books on cooking, and in the Gardener's Magazine, vols. vii. andviii. There are many other varieties cultivated in Europe, as the Turban pumpkin ; the melon pumpkin or Sfpiash; the American gourd or Mammoth gourd, which grows sometimes to the enormous weight of two hundred pounds, and used in Paris boiled to eat with meat as a substitute for potatoes and carrots. In many of the French provinces, where it is extensively cul- tivated, cows, hogs, and other cattle are fed upon gourds, and from the seeds large quantities of oil are expressed, which is used both for food and burning in lamps.