Chap. III. 561 BREWING. temperature is inferior to that required for charring, it becomes more and more soluble, and at last forms a perfect solution of the colour of clarified coifee, even when digested with cold water. This solution gives no indication with chemical re-agents of the pre- sence either of starch or of sugar ; it will remain for months exposed to the air without becoming mouldy or turbid, and when evaporated affords a brown gum perfectly re- soluble in cold water. The sugar of the malt appears to be altered by heat before the starch is materially aflfected, and hence an infusion of brown malt is not sensibly sweet to the taste, and is not susceptible of fermentation." 3158. From this account it is obvious, that however the high drying of malt, so as to render it brown, may develope a soluble colouring matter, and a peculiar flavour, in the same manner as in coffee, and which forms some of the causes of the peculiarity of porter, yet it does this at the expense of the fermenting principle. Brewers have long ago found this out, and instead of using only malt dried mockratehj brown for porter, as was the case formerly, it is the general practice at present to employ pale malt for the purpose of the fermentation, and to add a certain quantity of patent malt for communicating the brown colour and flavour to which the public are accustomed in this beverage. 3159. The method of preparing the brown or patent malt was discovered by Mr. Wheeler, who took out a patent for it in 1817. The heat necessary to bring the malt to the degree of brownness proper for the required purpose is about 400° Fabr. Before the general adoption of this by the brewers, the operations of the maltster were considered of very great nicety in order to produce accurately the precise degree of drying necessary for various purposes ; but the use of the patent malt renders the drying of malt an affair of much greater simplicity, as little more than pale malt is made in general. 3160. Malt that has been well dried by a long-continued low heat, not sufiicient to alter its colour, and therefore called pale, will afford the most saccharine or fermentable matter, and consequently liquor of the greatest strength ; it is also the only malt fit for brewing ale, since it does not give that acerbity of taste which is the consequence of rendering the malt brown, but which occurs in porter, and which porter drinkers prefer. 3161. According to Dr. Thomson, barley loses about 8 per cent, by being converted into malt, of which 1-5 is carried olF by the steep water; 3 is dissipated on the floor; 3 consists of rootlets separated by cleaning ; and rs is waste. The following is a comparison of the analysis of unmalted and malted barley, showing the changes that have taken place in the operation ; particularly the diminution of starch and increase of saccharine matter. Proust. li.irley. Malt. Resin - - I 1 Gum - - 4 15 Sugar - - f) 15 Gluten .-31 Starch - - 32 iiG Hordeiii - .^5 12 Total - 100 1(10 3162. According to Proust, barley contains a peculiar principle which he has named \kordehi, and which has hitherto been confounded with starch; part of this hordein he supposes to be converted into saccharine matter, and part into a kind of starch possessing some properties different from the starch of barley : but this new view of the subject does :not appear to be sufficiently established. Malt may be preserved good, in a proper situation, for a whole year or more, if guarded from moisture ; and it should not be too much secluded from air. If barley be subjected ifo the same temperature as in drying malt, it loses only 2 per cent., which is, probably, ■ only water. Excellent malt can be made from oats, which, when mixed with barley malt, affords a sprightly sweet I drink : raw oats, well dried, not malted, would answer mixed with malt, and is permitted by the excise to be : used in private, though not in public brewing. Wheat does not afford a malt so sweet as that from barley, 1 and is not allowed in this country by the excise laws, but it is much emplo) ed on the Continent: in the Ne- therlands and Prussia they employ five parts of malted wheat mixed with one part of malted barley j particu- -larly in making the white beer of Berlin. In India they make malt from rice, and the spirit proiluced from : It is called arrack. The Chinese employ mil/et for a similar purpose. The malt from rye is said to afford ^more spirit than that from barley. Malt is also made from maize, or Indian corn, and in the Philosophical Transactions we have an account of the mode of pre])arlng it It .ippears that it will not succeed in the usual manner, and that it must actually germinate in the earth. To effect this, the soil is removed from the surface to the depth of a few inches, and the m;uze sown quite thick upon the ground ; the earth is then replaced over it, and in ten or fourteen days the shoots come up, and present the appearance of a green field ; the germinating corn is then taken up freed from the soil, and dried. This malt is very sweet, and makes a beer very pleasant and wholesome! Mungo Park informs us, that in Africa the negroes prepare beer from the Holcits spicatus, and that the pro- cess which they employ seems to differ but little from that followed in this country : it Is here Worth recol- lecting that beer is said to have been invented by the ancient Egyptians. In all these cases it is obvious that the principle is the same ; the germination of the various farinaceous seeds in malting produces sugar the only material capable of the vinous fermentation. ' The colour of liquors made from malt, when no colouring matter is used, arises from n Oo Dr. Thomson. Barley. Malt. Gum - - .T 14 Sugar - - 4 IR Gluten - - 3 1 Starch - - 88 C9 Total - ion HiO