IIHAP. VIII. HISTORY OF FURNITURE. 213 CHAP. VII. LACQUEKING. 1001. Lacquering is a thin varnish given to brass luhrk, such as handles of locks, door- Liates, &c., to prevent their tarnisliing. 1002. Brass work may be re-lacquered in the following manner. The metal should be KSt warmed, and the followmg lacquer laid over it evenly with a soft brush; or small articles i.iay be dipped in it. Put an ounce of turmeric, two drams of annotto, and two drams of itffron, into a pint of alcohol: agitate it occasionally during a week, and then filter it I! to a clear bottle. Add to this three ounces of clean seed-lac, and shake up the bottle low and then during a fortnight. 1003. A lacquer to give tin, or articles covered ivitli silver leaf, the appearance of brass. Ilelt, in separate vessels, two ounces of gum-lac, and eight ounces of amber; mix them well >i>gether, and add half a pound of drying linseed oil. Digest in a pint phial a little saffron I half a pint of oil of tiirpentine ; strain this liquor, and add to it some gum tragacanth cad annotto, finely powdered. Mix this last compound with the fonner, and shake them eell. It is by this varnish that leather is made to appear as if gilded, after it has been ii>vered with silver leaf. CHAP. vni. HISTORY OF FUimiTXJKE. 1004. General remarks.—Before we proceed to describe the various articles used as ;urniture in modern dwellings, a short history of the subject, considered rather as a i iatter of taste, with some general observations, will be requisite, in order to prepare the jader for understanding and appreciating the various kinds. 1005. Our object in giving the following descriptions and wood-cuts of the household fur- it'ture used at present is, that young housekeepers may acquire, by their means, such a leneral knowledge of the subject, as will be useful in enabling them to enquire after, and > 1 select, those articles which are indispensable. Not only is the expense of furnishing I house so considerable that regard to economy is deserving of attention, but much of our 'omfort also depends upon the selection being judiciously made in the first instance, eerhaps almost all the articles we are about to describe may be knowTi in a general way II most persons, yet it cannot but be useful to have them enumerated, classed, and brought i3fore us, in one view, that attention may be drawn to them in a precise and methodical Lianner: a task which has not yet been performed in any work of this kind. We may likewise obsei've, that all the wood-cuts of the articles have been made from rrawings of the different objects actually in use and on sale at the present period, and not vom designs ; consequently they exhibit the forms now in general use in this country. 1006. Jt would be in vain to attempt tracing the history of furniture back to the remotest 'p.riods, as there are no materials for this purpose : but the wants of man being nearly the mme at all times, we may easily imagine the general nature and practice of this part of "omestic economy in the rudest ages, from what we at present perceive among nations let uncivilised. 1007. From the discovery of paintings and sculptures in tombs cut in the rocks of Egypt, l od from other researches, we have been lately made acquainted with much of the domestic abits of the ancient Egyptians: and it is as surprising as unexpected, to have thus brought »efore us the forms, at least, of furniture of the time of the Pharaohs. The decorations of ; ncient furniture frequently consist in part of what is now termed the grotesque style of rmament, which is composed of a whimsical introduction of carving or painting, repre- unting parts of animals mixed with foliage, and a variety of other objects in which the imagination is permitted to revel without any regard to probability. In the late excellent I 'ork by Sir Gardner Wilkinson, on the Antiquities of Egypt, we see, among many other !nings copied from paintingson the tombs, representations of Egyptian furniture ornamented II this way ; some of the chairs, in particular, scarcely diflFering from those which come from li ie modern upholsterer. They appear to have been made of costly wood, carved and rnamented with inlaying of ivory, ebony, silver, and other precious materials, a, fiq. :60., is an Egyptian chair from Wilkinson, having a curved buck, the seat formed of lomc substance woven, probably split cane : and the legs shaped in imitation of some ■inimal with claws, precisely like those executed at ])resent; it is evident that the labinot-niakers of that time had acquired the art of iiutting them together so firmly as 1 ot to require the assistance of cross-bars, b represents an Egyptian lady seated in a chair,