Book XXV. 1174 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. must be prepared of a circular pad of straw, about fifteen inches in diameter, with some bruised straw within. The number of eggs they sit upon is usually eleven or thirteen, and the time of hatching is between twenty-five and thirty days. They are easily made to sit, and are patient sitters. They will also sit anywhere in the house, as in the corner of a back kitchen ; but they make inattentive mothers, for they will sometimes straggle a great way over the fields, dragging the young brood after them ; and, in consequence, frequently some of the young get left behind and are lost. C'J54. The young, when just hatched, are very tender, and require to be kept warm. Some have recommended giving them cordials of various kinds at first, but this is not necessary: the best way is to leave them quiet in the nest to the care of the mother for a day or two, after which they may be put into a basket, or oh the ground, as may be found to suit their strength and the weather. When they begin to eat, they should be fed with bread moistened with water or milk. Some recommend a strong paste made of meal of barley, peas, or maize, mixed with chives chopped small, or nettles, or parsley, according to local resources ; this is made into balls about the size of a turkey's egg, and held in the hand, or laid in flat cakes on stones, for the young ones to pick at till they are satisfied. Curd, eggs boiled hard, and boiled meat torn in shreds, are likewise given. Meanwhile the hen should be cooped, or put under a kind of cage, or crate such as earthenware is packed in, lest she should rob the young of their food. When she is kept in this manner, the young chicks can run about, without wandering too far, and return to her call. They should be fed several times a day, and water should be given as directed for com- mon poultry. They should be accustomed to the open air gradually, at first two hours in the sunshine ; and during the first six weeks, they should not be allowed to stray from home, but with the mother they should be confined to the vicinity of a shed, where they can find shelter in case of rain or cold winds, which are very injurious to them. Or if they are permitted to cater for themselves in the fields or about the hedges, which they are fond of doing, they should be attended by a boy or girl who will bring them home again, before the dew falls. The mother does not, like common fowls, seek food for them by scratching and other contrivances, nor teach them to do so: therefore the young re- quire more care ; some have put a few common fowls' eggs under the turkey with her own, that the chickens hatched from them may set an example to the turkey-chicks in looking out for food ; others cram the turkey chicks, but this is a bad practice. 6955. The yoiing, when about two rnoiUhs old, are termed turltey poults; at that time the membranes on the neck and head shoot out and become of a flesh red colour ; this is called shooting the red, and is a critical change in the turkey's life, more so even than moulting. They then require particular care, and to have the best food. After that they may go about into whatever place their mothers are allowed. If there are any woods near, where they are safe, or can be looked after, they are fond of frequenting there, and picking up fallen acorns, beach wart, or wild fruits of any kind, corn in gleaning time, or insects ; but a scorching sun, as well as rain, is fatal to turkey poults. 6956. Turkey poults, which some prefer to the full-groion birds, are fattened for the table when about six months old, and for this purpose, the food which is usually given consists of farinaceous materials, such as soddened barley or wheat, or meal of any grain, boiled with kitchen-stuff, or dregs of melted tallow or fat, together with various pot-herbs and potatoes ; but their food being much the same as that of common fowls, much oily sub- stances, impart a disagreeable flavour to the flesh. Some persons, to save the ti-ouble of breeding turkeys, buy the poults in the market, and fatten them at home by the various scraps left in the house. A fine turkey when fattened will weigh fourteen or fifteen pounds when ready for cooking, though it will weigh from twenty to twenty-five pounds when alive. It may be observed, the turkey-cock is so pugnacious and troublesome a bird, par- ticularly to children, that many object to having one about the house. But though quar- relsome, the turkey is a cowardly bird ; they are swift runners, but in their domesticated state, are but indiffereut flyers : their remarkable antipathy to red is well known, and their strut and pomposity is proverbial. Sect. III. 6957. The varieties of the goose are numerous, but the common domesticated kind is distinguished by the colour, as being white or grey. The one most esteemed is the large Embden white. Geese should not be kept so as to have access to other poultry, bemg very pugnacious, which harasses the rest. They may be bred on a common, or on marshy ground, as they feed much on grass; but they should not be suflfered to range about the house and grounds, as they are very destructive to gardens and farm crops, preserves, and orchards. Access to water is essential. Geese and ducks, being nearly of similar habits, may be lodged in the same house, having separate places for laying, sitting, and fattening.