Book I. 42 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. fig. 40. At certain distances, generally every six or seven feet, the rafters and tie beams are made stout, and connected together by trussing ; these are called principal rafters. Perpendicular pieces, a, called king posts, rise from the centre of tlie tie beams, be, and struts, ed, extend from the foot of the king posts to the principal rafters framed into the top of the king posts and tie beam. On the back of these principal rafters, and extending horizontally from one set of them to the other, is a piece fg, named a purlin, wliich supports the common rafters hi, hi, the upper ends of which are nailed to the ridge piece It, and the lower ends secured to the horizontal poll plate I. The end of each tie beam b c rests upon the wall plate, m. 149. Bi/ the Buildiny Act, no water is suffered to drip next any public way from the roof of any buUding, except from the roofs of porticoes or other entrances ; but to be conveyed by metal pipes, or wooden trunks, or brick or stone ftmnels, into drains or reservoirs. SuBSECT. 11.—Smith's Work. 150. The}-e is a certain quantity of iron in even/ house, and to execute this, there is the blacksmith and the whitesmith. The first makes such articles only as do not require filing, grinding, or any process that renders his work bright; but finishes every thing off on the anvil, as in the making of cramps, iron ties, bars, i-ailing, chains, &c. The white- smith makes and finishes articles of iron and steel, that are to have a bright surface by means of the file and tui'ning lathe ; to him, also, belongs the making and repairing of locks, bell-hanging, &c. The carpenter has occasion for the blacksmith to make a great variety of iron ties, straps, bolts, nuts, and screws for his work, which are always of wrought iron, and for all of which he gives him the necessary directions. The joiner also requires various articles of iron for his work, as well as bars and other fastenings for doors and windows. Most of the articles made by the whitesmith are purchased from the iron- monger. Iron has, of late, come much into use in many parts of buildings that were formei'ly constructed of wood, as in roofs, floors, &c., with the view of rendering them fire- proof ; and many ornamental parts are found to be made economically of cast iron. For the manufacture of iron, see " Materials for Furniture." SuBSECT. 12.—Coverings for Roofs. fSl. Various materials are employed to cover the roofs in different parts of the world, according to climate and the natural materials; but in this country they are limited to the metals, slates, tiles, and thatch. Of metals, lead is the best, requiring no repairs for a long series of years ; but it is heavy and expensive, and therefore entu-e roofs of lead are used only in churches and other public or valuable buildings, or where the roof is re- quired to be flat. Lead is, however, partially employed in the roofs of all private houses. Sheet lead for this purpose is of two kinds, cast and milled lead. Cast lead is made by suffering the melted metal to run out of a box through a long horizontal slit upon a table prepared for the purpose. The thickness of cast sheet lead varies from six to ten pounds in the superficial foot; seven pounds to the superficial foot is the most common. Milled lead is produced by passing the solid metal between steel rollers ; and is made of various thicknesses, from three to five pounds to the foot; this thickness is not proper for flats nor gutters, but is used for hips, ridges, flashings, &c. Some, however, prefer stout milled lead to cast, as not being so liable to have the defects called ;)m/io/es, which cause leakages difficult to discover. Zinc is of late occasionally used to cover roofs, being lighter and cheaper than lead ; but it is not so much to be depended upon, oxidating in many cases, to which lead is scarcely at all liable. Copper is likewise employed as roofing, (see farther, " Materials for Furniture,") where the want of pliability hinders the use of the other metals ; or where great lightness is an object : but this metal is now almost superseded by the use of zinc. Slate is by far the most general covering for the roofs of good houses in Britain. When of the best kind, it is light and durable. The slates employed are chiefly of two kinds ; one large and ratlier heavy, quarried chiefly in Westmoreland, and used only in large edifices where the walls are sufficiently strong to support the weight, and where durability and not cheapness is the principal object. The other kind, smaller and thinner, come principally from North Wales. The first is of a light greenish grey colour, the other a dark or bluish grey. Of Welsh slates there are different sizes, called Welsh rugs, imperials, duchesses, and ladies. Excellent slates are found in the western isles of Scotland, as the Eisedale slates, used in Edinburgh. l.')2. To try the goodness of slates, lay one in an oven till perfectly dry ; weigh it, and then immerse it in water for some time. When taken out, wipe it carefully with a dry cloth, and weigh it again. Those slates which have acquired the least additional weight, and consequently have absorbed least water from being the least porous, are the fittest for