ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 675 Chap. VIII. Sect. II. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE PRODUCTION OF ARDENT SPIRITS. 3808. All kinds of spirituous liquors, or ardent ^irits, whether brandy, rum, malt spirits, &c., owe their hot fiery taste, their inflammability, and their intoxicating qualities, to their containing more or less of the liquid called by chemists alcohol, a -word of Arabian origin, which is spirit in its purest state, entirely free from water and other substances. 3809. It has been already shown, when treating on " Fermentation," Book VIII. Chap. II., that alcohol cannot be produced but by means of the process called vinous fermentation, or, as it might be named, the spirituous fermentation; and that it never exists ready formed by nature. When we hear, therefore, peraons say, as they some- times do, that there is a spirit in sugar, in carrots, or any other vegetable substance, we are to understand that such expression is not strictly correct; and that these substances only contain the materials from which spirit may be generated. The difference between brandy, rum, wine, ale, table-beer, and other liquors of this class, is, merely, that they con- tain different proportions of pure spirit, upon which their strength, that is, their intoxicating power, depends; and likewise that they have various proportions of water, mucilage, essential oils, and other flavouring matters, to which they owe their several peculiarities. The pure spirit which all these fermented liquors contain, and which may be extracted from them, is exactly of the same nature in each, though extremely different in quantity. This spirit, in the purest state in which it is usually prepared, is called spirit of wine, because it was originally procured from wine only ; but it is now made from other liquors. This, however, is not the purest state of spirit, but contains a quantity of water. We likewise stated that no substance can undergo the vinous or spirituous ferment- ation, except it contain sugar or starch, which is capable of being converted into sugar; and that every vegetable containing either of these principles can afford a fermented liquor of some kind, that is, a liquor containing alcohol, or spirit. If any fermented liquor is thus produced, no matter how weak, it will yield some spirit, more or less, by the process of distillation to be afterwards described. It must, therefore, be kept in mind that to produce spirit, the natural process of the vinous fermentation must be first resorted to ; and, in order to separate the spirit so produced from the water and other matters with which it was mixed during the fermentation, the artificial process of distillation must be employed ; in this, when the fennented liquor is put into the still, and heat is applied, the spirit rises, and is carried into the receiver, leaving the remaining portion behind. See " Distillation," Sect. III. 3810. 77)6 vegetable substances most usually fermented for the production of ardent spirits are, the various grains for malt spirit, the juice of the sugar-cane for rum, the juice of the grape for brandy, and potatoes, carrots, or other sweet vegetables, for various spirits named after them. In other coimtries, the juice of the palm is employed; also rice for arrack, the juice of cocoa nuts, and of the sugar maple : even milk fermented affords a spirit to the Tartars. Sect. III. DISTILLATION. 3811. Distillation is the applica tion of heat to a fluid so as to make it boil or be con- verted into the vaporous state, and afterwards condensing this vapour into a fluid again by means of cold. A familiar instance of this effect may be observed in a common tea- kettle ; when it boils, steam, or the vapour of the water, is seen coming out of the spout; and if any cold body, as a plate, be held against this steam, it will be condensed upon it into drops of water. In the same manner, the steam may be conveyed to any dis- tance by means of a tube, and may be condensed, where it is required, by the application of a cold body to the outside of the tube. By means of this process of distillation, the most volatile of the component parts of a liquid may he separated fi-om those which are more fixed by applying a degree of heat sufficient to convert them into vapour, and afterwards condensing them, while the rest of the substance subjected to distillation remains behind. 3812. Distillation is a process not solely employed in the formation of ardent spirit, but is applied to many other purposes, as the obtaining the essential oils of vegetables, and even pure water. All liquids boil, or become converted into vapour, at a certain temperature ; but various liquids require very different degrees of heat to make them boil; thus water boils at 212째; alcohol at 176째; linseed oil at 600째; and mercury at 662째. From this it is evident, that if water and alcohol be mixed together, and put into a vessel over the fire when the latter boils, the former will not be near the boiling point. The spirit, therefore.