Book VI, HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. 340 1586. In (johKj into the bed-rooms her first care must be givcu to the proper airing of the rooms and bedding. She must open the windows ; and after removing the bed- clothes from the feather-beds, shaking up the feathers, and leaving them open to the air, she must proceed to set to rights the wasliing and dressing-tables, and then to cover them over in preparation for the sweeping. The bucket carried from room to room to receive the slops must be, when done with, emptied and imniediately cleaned out with plenty of cold water, and turned down in an appropriate place to dry. It is a slovenly habit to leave the chamber-bucket long unemptied : it spoils the bucket; as it also does to leave it uncleaned and wet. When it is sufficiently dried after it has been washed out, it should be put into the housemaid's closet, in which the rest of her utensils and materials for cleaning are usually kept. Two water-jugs should be amongst these utensils; one for hard or spring water, the other for rain or soft water. These being filled with a fresh supply must be carried into each bed-room or dressing-room; out of which each ewer and carafe or water-bottle must be refilled. Towels that have been recently used must be dried either before an open window or before a fire : care being observed to replace each horse with its respective towels in the room to which it belonged, that there may be no exchange in the towels. When clean towels are to replace those which have been used, the housemaid should take care to dry those that are wet, before they are put away for the wash. If left damp, linen will soon become mildewed, the marks of which are diffi- cult to remove. When the w,ishing and dressing-tables are put in order and covered over, the housemaid then calls to her assistance the other maid-servants, whose duty it is to help her to make the beds. It is necessary to remind those who are called away from other employments to assist in making beds, that they should previously w.ish their hands, and put off aprons which have been greased. Nothing can be more unseemly and dis- agreeable than marks of^dirty fingers upon bed-hangings, sheets, or counterpanes ; but with cleanly servants this can seldom happen. The beds being made, the curtains are to be shaken, folded, and laid on the bolster, and tlie valances to be turned up round the bedsteads. A large sheet is thrown over the whole, coarse wrappers over dressing and washing-tables, and the sweeping may then begin (see " Sweeping "); then she dusts every part and every piece of furniture; when the whole is completed, and she looks round and sees nothing neglected, her work is over for a time. She then resorts with her sewing to the still-room or kitchen, and sits there till it is time to put the rooms in order after dressing. In the evening she should pursue the same course as before-mentioned. And during the week she should be solicitous to divide and arrange her work so as to get each day some portion of tliat done which may be termed the weekly business- By doing this, there would be no greater pressure of work on any one day more than on the rest of the week. SuBSECT. 6 Duties of the Still-Room Maid. 1587. The still-room maid, less frequently required at present to assist at the still than in former times when sweet-flavoured waters were to be prepared for the cook, aromatics for the dressing-room, and cordials for the invalid, yet she preserves her name, and in some houses her ancient avocations also. (See " Still Room," Book XX.) But whether these are entirely discontinued or not, she has always a distinct department to fill, —that of the charge of the housekeeper's room. She is, in fact, the housekeeper's maid ; lights her fire, cleans and dusts her room, prepares the table for her breakfast, waits upon her, and upon those of the establishment who breakfast with her; and after cleai'ing away the breakfast-table, she prepares to assist her in the preparations for second courses and desserts ; or in distillation in those families in which this branch of the still-room employ- ments is continued. Neat, clean, active, and obliging, she must ever be j and if observant also, there is no office in a gentleman's house more likely to fit her for undertaking in time higher and more responsible departments of household business. SuBSECT. 7.—Duties of the Laundry Maid. 1.588. Tlie laundry maid is engaged generally to wash and get up only the household linen and the family clothes. The maid-servants wash for themselves, or receive instead an allowance of wages. The men-servant's washing, with the exception of the footman's linen jackets and aprons, is always at their own cost. This is customary, and if it seem hard, that the men-servants should not have the same advantages in this respect as the women, it must be remembered that their wages are mtich more considerable than those of women-servants. On this subject see also Book XXII., " Economy of the Laundry." I!)89. The weekly business qfthc laundry maid is f/ie following. —On Mondays the business of the lann- dress begins with collecting .and sorting out the various articles to be washed, in preparing the copners, filling them with water, and laying the fuid ready for kindling. On Tuesdays she should rise at h o clock, light the fires under the coppers, and, as soon as the water is hot, she should begin with her assistants to wash As It is a main object to hang out early in the morning all articles (such .as shcet.s .and body linen) which may be improved by the whitening power of the morning air and sun. the first hours of the washing diiy should be diligently employed, and the evening, if the washing is finished, should be occupied with scouring and cleaning up the wash-house .and the utensils which have been usc<l. I( ednesdays. the chief of the washing being completed, the business of drying and folding the linen for the mangle and Iron is to be