RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. 884 veal of the same size and thickness ; rub the veal over with yolk of egg and pepper it; prepare some forcemeat of a thinner consistence than usual, that it may be spread over the veal. Roll them up, and secure them in that position with some thread; run a lark spit through them, and roast them. Prepare a sauce of veal gravy, a spoonful or two of cream and a little cavice. 497.3. Ilnlinn cullops. — Mince a qu.intity of lean undressed veal, add a little flour to prevent the divided pieces from sticking together, with iialf the quantity of young green onions, a little parsley, button mushroom! nU chopped together, with a very little grated lemon-peel. Put the chopped ve.il and herbs into the pan with a piece of butter, frequently stirring, that the whole may be equally done. Moisten to a proper consistence with veal gravy and a spoonful of cream. Add sufficient salt and pepper j lemon-juice, if required, may be used at table. 4974. Fricandeaii of veal is cut from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad. Beat it with the rolling-pin, take otf the skin, and trim it with the rough edges. Lard the top and sides, cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it in the stew-pan with pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, some sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham. Cover the pan close and let it stew gently for three hours. Take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy and boil it quick to a glaze ; then glaze it. Serve with sorrel sauce. 4975. Veal cutlets (fried). — Cutlets are generally cut from the fillet, in neat small pieces, about half an inch in thickness. They are sprinkled over with bread crumbs, yolk of egg, sweet herbs finely broken, lemon-peel grated. The cutlets must be fried in butter of a light brown. "When done, the butter must be poured away, and a little gravy made in the pan, with warm water or broth; some lemon juice and peel, and some mushroom catsup, thickened with flour and butter. 4976. Calves' brains in various ivays.—Let the brains first steep in cold water, to extract the blood, and separate all the filaments and membranes; then pour on them boiling water, in which they are to remain a quarter of an hour. Afterwards drain them, and fry them in clarified butter, and let them be served with cream and bechamelle sauce. Another way of dressing them is by beating the brains, when parboiled, to a paste in the mortar, with some chopped parsley, green onions, and chopped mushrooms; work this together with some cream and veal gravy ; when properly seasoned, it may be served up with slices of tongue glazed, and neatly arranged round the dish ; the French term it en miroton; or it may be spread on a toast, and divided into convenient pieces. 4977. Sweetbreads done in various ways.—Trim them properly, and let them soak in cold water to extract the blood ; afterwards pour on them boiling water to blanch. Lard them, and roast them till thoroughly done. Serve them up on a square piece of toasted or fried bread, with clarified veal gravy in the dish properly seasoned. Sweetbreads may also be simply boiled, and served up with butter and flour, brought to the proper consistence by the addition of cream and a few pickled mushrooms, with seasoning. Another method is by cutting them into slices, covering with beaten egg and bread- crumbs, and frying of a nice brown. These slices may be served with a sauce composed of cream, veal consomme, lemon-juice, and cayenne pepper, with sufficient salt. 497S. Boiled calfs head. — Cut it in two, and take out the brains: wash the head in several w.iters, ,ind soak it in warm water for a quarter of an hour. Put it into a saucepan of cold water, and when it comes to a boil, scum it carefully. H.nlf a head, without tlie skin, will require boiling from an hour .and a half to two hours and a quarter, according to its size ; with the skin an hour longer. It must be stewed very gently till tender. Boil tender eight or ten sage leaves, or parsley, or both ; chop them fine, and set them re.idy 'on a filate. Wash the brains well in two waters ; put them into a basin of cold water, with a little salt in it, and et them soak for an hour ; then pour aw.ay the cold, and cover them with hot water; then put them into a stew-pan with plenty of cold w.ater, and boil very gently for ten or fifteen minutes. Now chop them {not very fine), put them into a saucepan with the sage-le.aves, and a coui)le of table-spoonfuls of thin melted butter, and a little salt (some add a little lemon-juice), .a^id stir them well togi ther. As soon .as they .ire well warmed, skin the tongue, trim olV the roots, and put it into the middle of the dish, the brains round it; or chop the brains ivith ,in eschalot, a little parsley, .and four h.ard boiled eggs, .and nut them into a qu.arterof a pint of bechamelle or white s.auce. A calf's head is usually attended by a pig's cheek,a knuckle of ham or ii.aeon, or pickled pork ; greens, cauliflowers, broccoli, or pe.ase, and .alw.ays by parsley and butler. If you like it Fi'LL-DBEssED, score it superficially, beat up the yolk of .an egg, .and rub it over the he.id with a feather; powder it with a seasoning of finely-minced or dried and powdered winter s.avourj-, or lemon tlivme, or s.age, parslev, pepper, salt, and bread-cnnnhs, and give it a brown with a salamander, or in a tin Dutch oven ; when It begins to dry, sprinkle a little melted butter over it with a paste brush. You ni.ay gjiniish the dish with broiled rashers of biicon. 41)7!). Calf's head haslicd. — Soak the head in water, boil it, not thoroughly, but until the meat may be cut clean l^rom the bone. Take the meat off the bone on the best side. Lay it in a dish, and cover it with crumbs (if bread, among which are a few lierbs cut very small, with some pejiper, salt, and nutmeg, and the yolk of two eggs. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it occasionally (hat all pans of the meat may become brown. Slice the remainder of the head, peel and slice also the tongue. Put a pint of good gravy, or of the liquor in which the head was boiled, into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, some salt cayenne esch.alot, a gl.ass of sherry, and a little oyster liquor. Boil these together for a few minutes; then strain it on the meat, which should have been previously dredged with fiour. Kresh, or pickleil mushrooms, triimes, morels, .and two spoonfuls of catsup should be .added. Half the br.ains beaten up with Hour .and butter should he added, and the whole simmered together. The other li.alf of the brains .are to lie be,aten up with lemim-pnel and parsley finely chopped, some nutmeg, mace, .and an egg. These arc to be fried in small cakes; also some oysters dipped In yolk of egg ; with these, and some good forcemeat balls, the dish must bo garnished.