1215 Chap. III. SMOKING. — CLOTHING. — CLEANLINESS. it heady; and ale, on the other hand, contains a large quantity of sugar and mucilage, •which are digested with difficulty, and often produce acidity and heartburn. Sect. II. REMARKS ON THE PRACTICE OF SMOKING. 7168. It is difficult to conceive on what grounds this practice can be defended; it pro- duces indolence rather than excitement of the mind ; it blunts the appetite, and in some cases, it brings on an obstinate form of indigestion. Tobacco contains a large quantity of volatile oil, which has a powerful sedative influ- ence, often evidenced in the giddiness, sickness, and depression which foUow the first attempts to smoke; after a time the system seems to accommodate itself, and to suffer little or not at all from this agent, but it would be against all reason to suppose that its effect ceases because less perceptible ; on the contrary, the pale bloated face, the indigestion, and loss of appetite, and the heaviness of mind, soon point out that the habit is exerting a pernicious effect. It is true that some persons are able to smoke all day, and preserve their usual health; but this is no more an argument for smoking, than the health and great age of a man who has taken his bottle of wine every day is an argument for drinking. 7169. Smoking with a pipe, moreover, causes sometimes a disease of the lower lip, which may become cancerous ; at least this is not uncommon among the lower class of smokers in this country, who use the same pipe for a long time together. 7170. Taking snuff and chewing tobacco are also objectionable practices; the former blunts the sensibility of the lining membrane of the nose, destroys its susceptibility for odours, and thickens it often to such a degree that the person cannot breathe through the nose ; besides, some of the snuff usually passes down into the stomach, and produces there the same effects as smoking. Snuff-taking excites the mental faculties more than smoking does; at the same time it is a still less cleanly habit. 7171. Chewing tobacco is a common practice, chiefly with seamen and travellers; it lessens the appetite very considerably, and is employed for this purpose by travellers, and others who have to endure long abstinence of food; its bad effects are, if anything, more strongly marked than those of smoking and snuffing. Sect. IIL clothing. 7172. This is a subject so well understood, that our remarks upon it will be very brief. In weak and scrofulous people, good clothing is one of the most efficient protectives . against the consequences which exposure to cold brings with it to these persons. In cold : and damp weather they should always wear flannel next to the skin, not merely over the ■ chest, but all over the body from the neck to the feet; in summer, linen may be substi- I tuted for the flannel. (See Book XVII., " On the various Fabrics for Clothing.") 7173. One of the worst habits of clothing in the present day is the immoderate tight- 1 ness with which some articles of dress are worn ; tight cravats, when they were in : fashion, not infrequently produced apoplexy; tight garters often cause enlargement of the • veins of the leg and foot (" Varicose Veins "), by stopping the proper flow of the blood; 1 tight stays, again, prevent due respiration, by hindering the movement of the ribs, and by 1 pressing the lower ribs inwards they distort the figure, and sometimes displace the organs i in the abdomen. Supposing the arms to be separated from the body, the shape of the I chest is a cone with a base or larger part below ; but when tight stays have been worn I for some years, it is not uncommon to find the chest small as usual at the top, then 1 enlarging, and then again narrowing considerably, and giving a contracted and small, and ' what is by some considered an elegant, waist to the individual ; but to those who know I the true formation of the human body, a very narrow waist is not only inelegant, but is i as displeasing as any other deformity of the person. For information, respecting the various articles used for clothing, see Book XVII. Sect. IV. PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 7174. The skin pours out continually a quantity of watery vapour, with a little saline and gaseous matter ; this secretion, as it is called, is generally in so small a quantity, and • so gradually formed, as to be imperceptible, and then it is known by the name of " in- ' sensible perspiration." At certain times, however, from the effect of exercise, of clothing, < of heat applied in any way, or of particular medicines, this insensible perspiration is in-