ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. Book XXII. 1102 to remove, the spots may 'be wetted for five minutes with salphuret of potash, or muriate of tin, and after this is washed out applying the citric acid. Irou moulds may likewise he removed by the bleaching liquid to be described. 6585. Stains from vegetable substances, as fruit, wine, Sfc., may be removed by simple washing, if that can be done before the stain is dry : but after that, the colouring matter adheres with more force and is sometimes difficult to remove. If the stain be recent, it may be destroyed sometimes by rubbing on a little alkali, as soda or pearlash; but a mixture of ammonia and spirit of wine is safer : the spots should be soaked in it some time. Some faint stains left may be destroyed by moistening the cloth and holding the spot, at a due distance, over the fumes of a brimstone match. Some recommend putting salt upon the part as soon as the accident has happened ; and probably the stain may come out in the washing. Rubbing on the stained part imme- diately soap and whiting is also recommended; after which it must be well bleached in the air. Some stains may be removed by sour butter-milk. 6586. If the fruit stains have been long in, inb the part on each side with yellow soap ; then put on thick starch in cold water and rub it well in ; hang the linen in the air exposed to the sun for three or four days, and if that is not sufficient, repeat the process. 6587. The most effectual thing for removing stains of all hinds, except tliose from grease, is the bleaching liquid. This is sold for the purpose under that name, but as the price is considerable, we shall show how it may be procured at a cheaper rate. The powder called chloride of lime (for the nature of which see " Bleaching") is sold and may be bought for 6f/. a pound. To make a solution in water, which constitutes the bleaching liquid, put four ounces into a wide-mouthed quart bottle, add to it a little water, and stir this together with a stick : then fill the bottle nearly full with water, and let the whole stand together corked for about a fortnight, that the chloride may dissolve. During this time, some gas will be disengaged, and to prevent this driving out the cork, twice a day it will be well to take out the cork for an instant only; and it is to be noticed that the gas has an extremely ofiensive suffocating smell, and that it must by no means be suf- fered to get into the lungs, or it will cause excessive coughing; though when diffused through the apartment in such small quantity it is not hurtful. At the end of the fort- night the clear solution is to be poured off, and kept in a well-corked bottle, with paper wrapped round the bottle, in a dark place, for light or air injures its properties. This solution, or bleaching liquid, when diluted with water, will remove any stains from linen by keeping the part some time wetted with it: but it has no effect upon grease or oil 6588. //neither the bleaching liquid nor the chloride of time can be procured, chlorine itself may be formed thus ; and it will have the same effect: — Into a large tumbler put one drachm of black oxide of manganese finely powdered; this may be had at most of the druggists'; add to it three drachms of comrnon salt. Pour upon this mixture two drachms of oil of vitriol; a thick greenish vapour will immediately appear, which is the chlorine gas, set loose from the salt: and it is this gas that has the peculiar property of destroying colours, and consequently of removing stains, as is explained under "Bleaching." The fabric that has been stained must now be wetted, and held tight over the top of the tumbler that it may come in contact with the gas, which wiU very soon cause the stain to disap- pear. But this can only answer for textures that are white ; for if coloured ones, it will remove the colour together with the stain, in which the remedy would be as bad as the evil. It is necessary to observe, that whenever the bleaching liquid or the chlorine gas is applied, the linen must be immediately very well washed and rinsed afterwards ; since if this should be neglected, its texture would be rotted or much weakened ; but if employed with proper precautions, they are as safe as soda or pearlash. The bleaching liquid is safer than the chlorine gas. 6589. An extemporaneous bleaching liquid may be thus made: —Put a few grains of the chlorate of potash (a salt kept by most chemists and druggists) into a tea-spoonful of common salt, and dilute it with water. 6590. To remove mildew from linen.—Moisten a piece of soap, and rub it on the parts affected Then rub over the parts with whitening ; lay the linen on the grass, and from time to time, as it becomes dry, wet it a little. 6591. To restore the nap in places where clothes have been worn thread-bare, a process may be occasionally resorted to, which is employed by dealers in old clothes. They soak the cloth in cold water for half an hour, and then having laid it upon a smooth board they raise the nap by rubbing it with a thistle called a teazle used by manufac- turers of cloth. The nap is then brushed in one direction to lay it. •6592. To raise the pile of velvet when pressed r/or/'w.—Warm a smoothing iron moder- ately, and cover it with a wet cloth, and hold it under the velvet; the steam or vapour rising from the heated cloth will penetrate through the velvet, and enable a rush whisk to rflrisc the pile. 6593. To sulphtr silks, wonllcns, straw bonnets, ^c—The fimies of sulphur, consisting of the sulphureous acid gas, have a powerful effect in destroying colour; and are therefore