|iinAP. VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. 55 inrnt sienna. Grass; white and verditiu-e, -with Venetian red; or with white, Venetian dd, and Prussian blue. Pea green; with white and Olympian green; or with white, ifellow ochre, Prussian blue, and raw umber. Olive green ; with white, Prussian blue and mrnt umber, and yellow ochre. : 221. Those who wish to paint in distemper must practise mixing up the colours, which is icore difficult than in oil, because the tints dry much lighter than they appear when wet, is necessary, therefore, in order to ascertain what colour a certain mixture will pro- iiace, to paint a slip of paper over with it, and to dry it at the fire to see the tint: if this n neglected, the operator will be entu-ely deceived with respect to the colour of his aintinn-. Nevertheless, it is so easUy done, that any one possessed of a little ingenuity i.iay paint over a small room ; a circumstance worth knowing, where cleanliness with economy is a great object: and it has the advantage of giving little or no offensive smell miring the operation, and for some time afterwards, as oil paint does, but may be begun Bad finished in a day or two. Two coats are generally necessary to cover completely. 222. When old plastering has become discoloured by stains, and it is desired to have it lainted in distemper, it is advisable to give the surface, when properly cleaned off and rrepared, one coat at least of white lead in oil, with some spirits of turpentine, which will tenerally fix all old stams that would otherwise come through; and, when quite dry, this I rill take the water-colours very kindly. 223. When we reflect upon the great importance of cleanliness in our dwellings, the aalue of painting, both in oil and in distemper, should appear striking. Many servants t-aarn to whitewash very well; and sufficient knowledge of painting, both in oil and in distemper, may be easily acquired by those who are desirous of it—a circumstance which laay be of great use to them some time or other in the course of their lives: not a few eervants have gained their livelihood by practising painting as a trade. 224. A very good substitute for size can be prepared from potatoes. Make starch from the Kiotatoes in the usual manner, mix the whiting and water to the proper consistence, and lidd the starch. This has the advantage of being wholly without smell, and is also beau- lifully white. It forms an excellent material for whitening ceilings. It may be observed hhat, as whiting is only washed chalk, the latter, poimded very fine, may be made shift ivith, when whiting cannot be procured. 225. Milk Paint. A paint has been used on the Continent with success made from Milk and lime, that dries quicker than oil paint, and has no smell. It is made in the fioUowing manner. Take fresh curds, and bruise the lumps on a grinding-stone, or in an warthern pan, or mortar, with a spatula or strong spoon. Then put them into a pot with ihn equal quantity of lime, well slacked with water, to make it just thick enough to be kmeaded. Stir this mixture without adding more water, and a white-coloured fluid will •-.oori be obtained, which will serve as a paint. It may be laid on with a brush with as iiinuch ease as varnish, and it dries very speedily. It must, however, be used the same ilay it is made, for if kept till next day it will be too thick: consequently no more must I'oe mixed up at one time than can be laid on in a day. If any colour be requu-ed, any of [hhe ochres, as yellow ochre, or red ochre, or umber, may be mixed with it in any pro- poortion. Prussian blue would be changed by the lime. Two coats of this paint will k)e sufficient, and when quite dry it may be polished with a piece of woollen cloth, or ■similar substance, and it will become as bright as varnish. It will only do for inside KiTork ; but it will last longer if varnished over with white of egg after it has been poolished. 226. The following receipt for milk paint is given in " Smith's Art of House-painting." TTake of skimmed milk nearly two quarts; of fresh slacked lime about six ounces and a half; of linseed oil four ounces, and of whiting three pounds; put the lime into a stone vessel, iand pour upon it a sufficient quantity of milk, to form a mixture resembling thin cream ; lihen add the oil a little at a time, stirring it with a small spatula; the remaining milk is tithen to be added, and lastly the whiting. The milk must on no account be sour. Slake lithe lime by dipping the pieces in water, out of which it is to be immediately taken, and I'left to slack in the air. For fine white paint tlie oil of carraway is best, because colour- liless; but with ochres the commonest oils may be used. The oil, when mixed with the lonilk and lime, entirely disappears, and is totally dissolved by the lime, forming a cal- careous soap. The whiting or ochre is to be gently crumbled on the surface of the fluid, »which it gi-adually imbibes, and at last sinks: at this period it must be well stirred in. IThis paint may be coloured like distemper or size-colour, with levigated charcoal, yellow ochre, &c., and used in the same manner. The quantity here prescribed is sufficient to ■ cover twenty-seven square yards with the first coat, and it will cost about three-halfpence la yard. The same paint will do for out-door work by the addition of two ounces of ■slaked lime, two ounces of linseed oil, and two ounces of white Hurgundy pitch : the pitch ' to be melted in a gentle heat witli the oil, and then added to the smooth mixture of the I milk and lime. In cold weather it must be mixed warm, to facilitate its incorporation ' with the milk. F 4