BEUP. III. 101 ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. id qualifies of charcoal, of giving out carbonic acid gas, which, if the current or draught ') the chimney is not sufficient, will fall down into the apartment; but, while it is buni- :g in a fire-place, there is no danger of this, as the current upwards carries the carbonic :.:id along with it. 442. In very cold weather, putting some coke on the fire is a decided improvement, from it'e greater heat thrown out than can be given by coal alone. Coke is also in many cases ■Gnomical, when properly managed. The heating power of good coke is to that of pit- )jal as 75 to 69. Sect. V. PEAT. ■ 443. Peat, sometimes called turf, but improperly, is a fuel much employed in many coun- ides ; although in England, from the abundance of coal, a much superior substance, it 1 little esteemed. Nevertheless, it is the only fuel which the poorer classes can procure I parts of the north and west of Scotland, and a great part of Ireland. In many parts of fcoUand there is no other fuel ; and in several districts of France, Germany, and other inngdoms of Europe, where coal and wood are scarce, the poorer inhabitants burn nothing uat peat. ■ 444. Peat is a vegetable production comparatively recent. In low grounds, and some- umes even on the flat summits of hiUs, where the water cannot run off, certain plants ceculiar to such situations accumulate, and grow on each other. When these decay, they ri-e converted into the substance called peat; and sofnetimes this growth is increased by ii.Uen trees, which, by rotting, add to the peaty matter. If a portion of peat be examined, ' will be found to consist almost entirely of the roots, stems, and leaves, of small plants laatted together, and changed into a dark brown substance. The accumulation of peat II some countries, called peat mosses, and peat bogs, are sometimes many miles in extent. Their depth varies from a few feet to several yards, and it is certain that they have required many ages for their growth ; but peat still continues to form when circupistances rre favourable. The substance of peat is soft when in the peat moss, and is easily cut rith a spade, by which it is formed into pieces of the shape of large bricks : these are ssposed to the air ; and, when they are dried, they are very firm and inflammable. 445. Peat, as a fuel, being loose and spongy in its texture, compared with more solid kinds, ! not so fit to be employed for the production of strong heat, as it is too bulky, and bums way too fast: but, when we desire to keep up a long-continued and extremely gentle ieeat, we can scarcely use any thing better than peat. There is a very great difference m the quality of this fuel. Some of it is very light and spongy, of a brown colour, ipppearing to consist of a mass of the fibrous roots of plants and dead leaves, &c. This iidnd bums readily, but consumes rapidly. The best peat is compact and heavy, of a irrownish black colour, with scarcely any vestiges of its vegetable origin remaining. This List is an excellent fuel, gives a steady heat, though mild and gentle, with a brilliant rbhite flame, and does not require so much attention as wood; but, when lighted, pre- terves the fire a long time, and, when red-hot, bears to be moved about: still it consumes much faster than coal. 446. The smoke of peat is copious and penetrating, and affects the eyes like the smoke I f wood. It gives an odour disagreeable to those who are not accustomed to it, owing to lae pyroligneous acid which is disengaged. As this smoke occupies the upper part of lae cottages where chiefly it is burned, it is less felt by sitting down. It likewise imparts ppeculiar empyreumatic smell to every thing it comes in contact with, which adheres with rreat obstinacy ; but this smoke is well adapted for curing some kinds of meat and fish, iiQparting to them a peculiar flavour, much esteemed. 447. The best and densest peat is generally found at the bottom of the peat mosses, being I'ider, and subjected to most pressure. In farm houses and cottages, peat is usually burnt l-pon the hearth, which cannot be done with coal; and when it is dry, good, and properly iHsposed or built up, it blazes and makes a cheerful fire, which, from its low situation HI the ground, diliuses a great deal of warmth. The best kind burns very well in Lgrate, but the quantity of ashes it makes renders it inconvenient in this way ; whereas, HI the hearth, the ashes, instead of being inconvenient, arc extremely useful to poor eople in various processes of their cookery. Hot peat ashes are excellent for roasting ■'3h, eggs, &c.; and likewise for stewing, and any kind of cookery that requires a mild l eat. in this respect it approaches to charcoal. 448. Peat is nut well adapted for furnaces, or any fires where the draught is very quick, • i it consumes too fiust. It has been calculated by Clement and Desormcs that it gives only ine-fifth of the heat afforded by an equal weight of charcoal. 449. A process has lately been tried, which promises to render peat more available as I'lel. The peat is, when soft, put into a powerful press, by which the water is expelled, Qd the parts brought close together. One man can, by a lever, work the press, and the operation requires only a few seconds. By this the peat is reduced to one-third of its ori- II 3