iiAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. 77 ;349. Tlie common German stove, or more properly the Dutch stove, used in this coun- .', is as economical and effectual as any stove whatever, for wai-ming an apartment; and nre not its use attended with serious disadvantages, it might be much employed. It nnsists merely of a cylinder of sheet 'won, fig. 63., furnished with a grate in the interior for the fuel, a door for the fire, and another for the ashes, with a pipe to carry off the smoke into the chimney flue, which pipe may be lengthened when much heat is required. Here no air passes up through the chimney except that which has come through the fire, and has served for the purpose of combustion, being rendered unfit for respiration ; and the whole of this is carried off. All the rest of the heat, over and above what thus passes off with the smoke, is communicated to the iron, and by that to the air of the room in contact with it, at the same time that a good deal of heat in a radiated form proceeds from the iron 7 \l \\ itself, when much heated. As this stove may be placed at a dis- j — 1( tance from the wall by lengthening the pipe, it is very effectual in ' ■ ^^c-—• producing a great deal of heat; while it occasions no disagreeable Fig. C3. draughts, no smoke, and no dust. But the inconveniences are, laat there being no regulator for the draught of air, the iron is apt to become red hot, nad then it is extremely dangerous if placed near any thing combustible ; &nd as the fire i not seen except when the door is opened, it is diflBcult to regulate it. But another cir- uamstance which renders its use inconvenient is, that the iron being generally much heated, tdisagreeable effect is produced upon the air of the apartment, which is variously de- ccribed, and has never been satisfactorily accounted for. The air is said to acquire a Korched, a burnt, a close, or a sulphureous smell, and is very apt to produce headaches, iiiddiness, and even stupor, loss of appetite, ophthalmia, &c. The erroneous or vague nature of the description shows how little the effect is understood. The term burnt is improper, for it is not known that pure air, simply heated to any degree, is altered in its I'iuality. What is usually termed burnt air is that produced by actual combustion, as has »een previously explained. But in this stove none of these deleterious gases come into the woom. The term sulphureous is equally improper, as sulphur can scarcely in any way be c oncerned with the effect. But whatever may be the cause, or whatever ought to be the Uescription, all persons in this country agree that air so heated has acquired some property • vhich renders it both unpleasant and unwholesome. Count Rumford imagined that the laot iron roasted the dust which settled upon it : and as the dust of a room is made up of ilill sorts of animal and vegetable matters, these, when burnt, give out disagreeable efiiuvise. Others have attributed the effect, in a great measure, to the great dryness of the air so produced, resembling the African simoon, which they have endeavoured to correct by olacing a small pan of water on the stove, the evaporation affording the necessary mois- r.ure to the air; others, again, have supposed that the effect is owing to some alteration of the electrical state of the air ; and it has been absurdly imagined that the iron deprived hhe air of its oxygen. Whatever may be the true explanation of the effect complained of, land, possibly, all those just mentioned may combine, it is now universally allowed that the liir is rendered disagreeable and unhealthy when it is warmed by iron heated much above Ihe point of boiling water : hence the use of this and other iron stoves should be restricted ito purposes where heat and dryness are required, but where the salubrity of the air is less important; for such uses, nothing can be more economical. Many stoves of this kind, of cast iron, and of elegant and ornamental forms, are to be ifound in our halls and staircases, where it was thought the bad effect upon the air was less material, fresh air being more frequently introduced by the opening of doors. But it should be remembered that the air from these places extends all through the house, and rmust find its way into the best apartments. We may observe, that the draught might easily be regulated by a register to the ash pit, and a damper in the flue, though these are not usually made. The part where the fire burns might likewise be lined with brick, to prevent its getting red hot, which would lessen considerably the danger and incon- venience of this apparatus. But, from our experience of the effects of heated iron upon air, we are not admirers of iron stoves of any kind, where health is required to be much attended to. 350. It is said, that when iron is not heated above 212°, it has no injurious effect upon the air. This is not improbable; but as no series of accurate experiments or observations have been made and published, to determine this important question, we think it best to leave it in its present state. There is little doubt, however, that iron heated to a small degree is less hurtful than when heated highly ; but then, likewise, the heating power of the apparatus is diminished. S.")!. It dors not appear that close stoves, made of brick or earthenware, have the same species of injurious effecU upon the air of an apartment as iron ; and stoves of these materials are much used in various parts of the continent of Europe. In Russia, and many parts of