217 iiHAjp. viir. HISTORY OF FURNITURE, V'ortuguese are somewhat different from both : but this difference cannot be readily per- leived -without an accurate critical examination. Those who wish to study it may have m opportunity of seeing specimens imported from each of those countries in tlie show- rooms of Mr. Pratt of Bond Street, so well known by his attention to ancient armour; .-s well as in other collections made by dealers in London who devote their time to this irranch. Cabinets were among the most cm'ious and ornamental articles of ancient furniture ; nnd upon them was frequently expended all that the art of carving and inlaying was then japable of effecting. They were used as depositories for plate, china, coins, medals, auriosities of various kinds, and other precious articles for show or use. The interior was ii tted up with various drawers and cells, and sometimes contained concealed places for uaoney or jewels, while the exterior displayed ornamental hinges, escutcheons, pannels, liith angle and other ornaments. 1022. During the luxurious reign of Louis XIV., when so much encouragement was given lO the fine arts in France, they could scarcely be said to exist in England : and out of the iiinque cento or arabesque ornament of the time of Francis I. was gradually produced a peculiar species possessed of considerable originality, though extravagant, and which has" wer since maintained its ground under the term " style of Louis Quatorze." Although hhis, like other modern styles, had borrowed something from the antique, it is remarkably li.istinguished from it; and it affected, in particular, the almost constant employment of !i;raceful curved lines, with great luxuriance of foliage in fine bold relief 1023. Although the old French furniture cannot be held up as exhibiting examples iff refined taste, yet it was gay and lively, and well calculated for the purposes of the ostentatious display of wealth; and having been designed and executed by persons ■oonversant with the fine arts, though of the French school, much of it is at least pleasing HQ form ; while the quantity of gilding, and of all kinds of painting and showy materials. i!)lace it in strong contrast with the sombre works in oak and other woods of the preceding ;umes, which, however, are by no means destitute of merit. 1024. The history of furniture in France corresponds with that of the fine arts in that ountry; and under Louis XV. some little change is traceable: the foliage ornament ^'ccame more delicate and of greater intricacy; and during the reign of Louis XVI., the I'lttention which began to be paid to the study of the antique wrought an alteration very oensible upon all designs in the decorative arts. The cabinets of the time of Louis XVI. i iave a character which enables critical collectors easily to distinguish them. But the in'eat political revolution produced an entire change in the whole of this department. Old forms, as well as old customs and manners, were rejected, and the severely classical v»ecame for a time the order of the day, in furniture as in costume. The result was extra- irrdinary. All that species of taste which had been so much cultivated in the preceding iiimes, and which had become peculiarly, and almost exclusively, French, was banished, umd the purely antique, or Greek and Roman, was substituted. The French artists like- lirise carried this to a high degree of perfection, and the designs of Percier and Fontaine, ivith others of the same school, must be still looked up to as possessed of excellence per- uaps not equalled elsewhere. The refined taste of these artists was some^^hat perverted, irr rather wrongly directed, by their patron Buonaparte, whose love of ostentation pre- irsrred the gorgeousness of the Roman emperors to the simplicity of the Greek. Of late, 'he styles of Francis I. and Louis XIV. have been again revived in France ; and old •j'rench furniture of all kinds, which some years ago was almost thrown away, and might uave been purchased for a trifle, is now eagerly sought after and preserved; and its K-eing copied and imitated gives employment to the skilful artizans of the present day. 1025. But to return to the history of furniture in this country. Little is known of English iiamiture during the troublesome times that succeeded the reign of queen Elizabeth. ''Notwithstanding the number of old mansions that exist in England, only a small part of l ie furniture of the same date as the buildings exists, owing to the destruction occasioned iiy the civil wars, the frequent change of proprietors, with the alterations produced by Jishion. The introduction of mahogany as a material produced a considerable change in this lart of domestic economy. The beauty of its colour and grain was such, that it did not ippear to require so much enrichment by carving ; and the bright polish which it idmitted of caused it to be preferred to every other wood: hence we find our notable 'ousewives, from 1760 to 1800, priding themselves upon the lustre of the mahogany jjro-- luced by frequent rubbing. The use of cloth nuide of horse-hair for \nahogany chairs liaen became general. Tables were made exceedingly plain, and the carver was scarcely 'irnployed, his occupation being afterwards nearly destroyed by the invention of compo- 1' tion and plaster ornaments for buildings. Some of the latest furniture, peculiarly English ihere carving wa.s in use, may be seen in the designs published by Chipi)indale, which r.-e partly in the French style : after that, the cabinet work of this country, as far as, i^gards taste, fell into the lowest stage of insipidity.