BIRDS. :hap. v. 401 rives them farther up, where ultimately they are taken in the nets in great numbers. ?here are many of these decoys in the fens of Lincolnshire, from which the London larket is supplied. Among other methods qfcntehing wild ducks, the ingenious mode so characteristic of the Cliinese may be icntioned. Large liollow gourds are purposely thrown into the water in great numbers, and allowed to float uout. Tlie birds being at length accustomed to approach them with impunity, their captors disguise theni- !lvcs by placing similar gourds over their heads, with holes to see and breathe through, very much in the ianner of a helmet. Then, wading quietly along the shallow waters, they have only to approach the birds ently, and pull them under water by tlieir legs in succession. The same method is practised by the American Lidiaus. 2067. Tame ducks are well known to be greedy, and not nice feeders. They require mi.^ture of animal with vegetable food, being accustomed in the natural state to live on 'orms, which they are always seeking for in the water. They will eat flesh and garbage f any kind; but water insects, vegetables, corn, and pulse, are their proper nutriment. If id much upon grain they fatten rapidly, and the flesh becomes delicate, but is apt to be isipid : and if fed too much upon animal food, their taste is strong, and more like wild »wl. They require water, and that which is stagnant is best, as affording more nourish- lent from weeds and insects. They are sometimes fattened in coops ; but they become f a more delicate flavour, fatten equally well, and are more wholesome, by having access ) a pond with plenty of food. Their flesh is savoury and stimulant, and is considered ) be less gross than that of the goose, as well as more easily digested. 2068. The character of the duck is particularly inoffensive and harmless, and is even istinguished by its social disposition. It is also valuable for its great fecundity, and the bieapness and ease with which it may be provided for. 2069. Though ducks are well known on the table in the time of green peas, yet Ude says aat " November is their proper season, when they are plump and fat." By artificial leans they may be had in their prime about Christmas, and this object is effected in ome parts of England by preventing the laying of the eggs until the end of autumn; aey are then hatched, and the birds fattened. 2070. Ducks' eggs are, in general, easily distinguished from those of the fowl, being lore of a bluish colour, though some are nearly as white. When boiled, the white is ever so curdy as that of the hen, but a little translucent, even when set, and the yolk is arker in colour. They have a peculiar flavour, which some dislike, and others prefer : ut they have a more binding quality, and are therefore preferable to hens' eggs for laking puddings and pastry; a property which, in France, occasions them to be much ought after for omelets and cakes. Sect. XIIL WIDGEON. 2071. The widgeon is a smaller bird of the duck genus, but not so good as the wild I'jck. It is often fishy and rank, and the flesh is dark and dry : some, however, consider I as well flavoured, and a good wild fowl. It is in season from October to December. Sect, XIV. TEAI,. ; 2072. This is the smallest of the duck tribe, and much superior to the widgeon. It is, ddeed, favourite game. Sect. XV. PIGEON (ColumbuSj Linn.). i 2073. This genus is found in all the warm and temperate regions of the globe, parti- iWarly in the former; and so numerous are the species, that above a hundred have been laumerated ; most of these are wild, but several have been domesticated. : 2074. We have in England two species of wild pigeons distinct from the domesticated secies. The ivood pigeons or ring-doves {Columba Palumbus, Linn.) build their nests on ;"fty trees, as the beech, elm, and oak, and are thought to migrate from the northern to Me soiithern parts of the island, according to the season of the year: they appear some- times in considerable flocks, and aff'ord much amusement to the sportsman, while their tssh is highly prized. They are of a bluish ash colour, the neck green and copper colour iiith patches of white. In Carolina they appear in such numbers that they darken the rr in their flight, and are found to be so fat that oil is extracted from them. The turde- »ve is another wild species, of an elegant form but diminutive size, that visits us in spring, Jad disappears in September. It builds its nest in deep recesses of the woods, but is not I'lentiful. : 2075. 77ie stock dove is the original of our domesticated pigeons, and is sometimes in a D d