Chap. IV. 1055 SIMPLE DISTILLED WATERS, ETC. is to put the -whole into large narrow-necked bottles, setting them in a cool place, that the portion of the oil which is not dissolved in the water may rise to the top, or sink to the bottom. It may then be separated, either by a small glass syringe, or by means of a filter of paper; or lastly, by means of a -woollen thread, one end of -which is immersed in the oil, and the other, the lower end, in a phial ; the oil -will thus pass over into the phial by capillary attraction ; and the thread is to be squeezed di-y. G29G. In proceeding to procure a greater quantity of tlie oil with fiesh leaves or flowers, the whole of the nati'r produced by the first distillation is employed in the next, instead of plain water; so that thus the produce of oil in the second distillation will exceed that of the first by the whole quantity held in permanent solution by the water of the former process. By this method the amount of oil yielded by equal (^uantities of the same substance will form a constantly increasing series, till the whole of the water drawn oil by each distillation is completely saturated with oil. It is not till the seventh, or even sometimes the tenth distil- lation, that the produce of oil attains its maximum. Tall alembics are the best for these distillations. It is to bo observed, that if too much water be used the oil will dissolve in it, and only an aromatic water will be procured j if too little water, the plants may be charred. 0297. In Ms manner the essence of roses is procured. Put into the body of the still 40 pounds of rose petals, and 60 quarts of water ; distil offone-half of the water. When a considerable quantity of such water of the first distillation is obtained, it must be used as water upon fresh rose petals ; a process of repetition to be carried to the fifth time. In the distillation of orange flowers, to obtain the essence of neroli, the same process is followed. If orange-flower water merely be wanted, then it is obtained at one distillation, by reserving the first fifth part of water that comes over. 629S. The celebrated atlar of roses, a \>recious perfume, which is the essential oil of roses, is prepared in Persia and India. Ghazipoor on the Ganges, seventy miles below Benares, is famous for its manufacture of this costly perfume ; hundreds of acres are there employed in the cultivation of roses, and it is said that it requires '200,000 roses to produce half an ounce of the attar. To procure it, a clean cask or glazed earthen jar is filled with petals of the rnusk rose separated from their calyces, and they are then covered with spring water. The vessel containing them is set in the sun for two or three days, and brought under cover in the night. At the end of the third or fourth day small particles of yellow oil float on the surface of the water, wliich in a week accumulates into a thin scum ; this scum, which is the attar, is taken up by a little cotton tied to the end of a stick, and squeezed into a small phial. It sells for from 21. to 31. per ounce. The Per- sian attar of roses is said to be superior to the East Indian. 6299. 77ie essences of the lemon, the orange, and the bergamot, are the only ones that are so abundant as to be obtainable by expression. For this purpose, a small wheel, with its circumference set with stout nails, is put in motion, and a lemon or orange is applied to it till the whole of the yellow outer rind is rasped away. The raspings fall to the bottom of the case, in which the wheel turns, and they are then squeezed between two plates of glass. By this gentle pressure the oil flows from the ruptured cells into an adjoining vessel, and is there suffered to rest till the water and the other impurities have subsided. This essential oil is soluble in all proportions in pure alcohol; but only 14 parts dissolve in spirits of wine. 6300. A very ingenious mode is employed for fixing the aroma or perfumes of plants in ex- pressed oils without the assistance of any but the gentlest heat. The oil which is used is either oil of ben or the purest olive oil, both of which are entirely scentless. The flowers whose aroma is to be extracted, jasmine flowers for example, are thickly spread upon flakes of wool, previously soaked in the oil ; then they are enclosed in tin boxes, and suf- fered to remain till the flowers begin to decay, and lose their colour and texture. They are then removed, fresh flowers are added, and the maceration repeated till the oil be- comes richly impregnated with the jasmine scent. This oil is then put into a still with water, and the essential oil comes over with the water ; or the wool is pressed, and the fragrant oil separated from the flowers is put into closely-stopped bottles, and sold under the name of essence of jasmine. These essences, therefore, consist of a fixed oil saturated with the aroma of the plant. CHAP. IV. SIMPLE DISTILLED "WATERS, AND METHOD OF PREPARING THEM. 6301. When any vegetable matter is boiled with water in a vessel fitted to collect and condense the vapour, the distilled water so obtained is, in almost every instance, some- what impregnated more or less with odorous or sapid particles, which it has extracted : from the vegetable, and carried up with it in the process. But the difl'erence in the de- gree of impregnation, according to the substance employed, is extreme. Sometimes only a faint and nauseous taste is given, which soon goes ofi': but in other instances the water is highly scented, and has much taste. The first occurs where the plant is of the herbaceous and nearly insipid kind, or only bitter without being aromatic; but where the plant is rich in essential oil, or strongly aromatic, the water partakes largely of these properties. What are called distilled waters, therefore, consist of simple water slightly impregnated with the essential oils of different plants. A great variety of these have been used formerly, most of them obtained from the vegetable kingdom; and many were procured ' from the inodorous herbaceous plants for purposes of pharmacy. In France they enu-