Book Vri. 304 ON FOOD. matter, 0 16 ; albumen holding iu solution phosphate of lime, 0 08 ; water and loss, 77-17. From this analysis Sizn is a preparation made by boiling skin to a jelly. Leather is likewise formed from skin, but it is by combining the gelatine which it contains with the tannin in bark, the result being a peculiar substance which is no longer soluble in water, cold or hot; and this constitutes the process of tanning. See " Gela- tine." SuBSECT. 4 Cellular Membrane. 1776. This is a very soft spongy substance that lies between the shin and the flesh ; and a similar material is dispersed through every part of the body, frequently entering into their substance, connecting the several parts with each other, and preserving them in their proper places. It is composed of numerous minute cells formed by a very thin mem- brane, which are filled with a fatty matter, that varies in quantity according to the species of animal, and the condition of the individual. It is the proper receptacle of the fat. In some animals, as the ruminating quadrupeds, it is only partial; but in others, as the hog and the whale, it extends, with its fat, under the whole of the skin : the membrane itself consists partly of albumen, and partly gelatine, and is not soluble in water. SuBSECT. 5.—Flesh. 1777. T7ic flesh of animals, and which is the principal part employed as food, consists entirely of the various muscles, the use of which is to enable them to move and to perform their several functions. Each muscle is composed of a bundle of those minute fibres which we mentioned when speaking of fibrin. It is bound together, or united at each end or exti-emity, where the fibres compose a firm close texture of a silvery colour, and possessed of great tenacity. These terminations, which differ altogether in appear- ance from the muscle itself, are called tendons or sinews. If the muscles he examined with care, it will be seen that each bundle of fibres is enclosed in a very fine membrane, and they are often divided interiorly by other membranes into smaller bundles; also that the tendons are semi-transparent, very elastic, and strong, being securely fixed to the bones. 1778. Although it is not absolutely necessary to our subject, still it will illustrate the nature of muscle to show its proper use in the animal frame, which is, to perform the various motions of the body. The manner in whicli these motions are efl'ected is the following. The bones form what is called the skeleton, and there are joints whore it is necessary we should move certain p.nrts at our will. Let a be the elbow joint, which is to be bent; a muscle A, or, as we hare said, a bundle of fibres, is bound together or united at each end into a tough substance, called a tendon, c and rf, and these are fixed, one to each bone of the arm, above and below the elbow. Now, when we wish to move our arm, we can, merely by our will, through means incomprehen- sible to us, cause this muscle to swell in the middle, and consequently to contract in its length ; the consequence of this shortening of the muscle from d to c, is, that the bone e a, is raised upwards, and the arm of course is bent. In the same manner all the motions of our bodies are per- formed ; one end of a muscle is fixed to one bone, and the other end to another bone, and our will causes the muscle to swell in the middle, or bc/Jt/ of the muscle, as it is called, and thus give rise to motion. 1779. The fibrous structure of flesh is best seen in meat that is dressed, but particularly in boiled meat, as veal, or leg of beef. The nature of a muscle is easily perceived in cutting up the leg of a fowl that is sufiiciently entire ; for, when meat is cut for sale, the muscles are generally divided across, so that portions of them only are visible in one piece. The fibres constitute what is usually called the grain of the meat; thus, we speak of cutting across the grain when we divide the fibres across. The quality of meat is judged of, in some measure, by the coarseness or fineness of these fibres: in very large auimaJs, as the elephant, rhinoceros, &c., they are very coarse and unpalatable; on the contrary, the fibres of the flesh of very small animals, as the mouse, are very small, and the flesh is very delicate, and, although not eaten in this country, was highly prized by the luxurious inhabitants of ancient Rome, who fed them for the purpose. It is a curious fact, that the actual fibres of flesh are so minute, that the smallest one visible to the eye is com- posed of many others, still smaller, laid close together. 1780. In the muscles is intermingled a small quantity of fat and gelatine, the proportions of which is different in those of diS'erent animals, and in different parts of the same animal, or according to their condition. Thus, flesh consists chiefly of fibrin, or the pure fibre, which, as we have stated above, is of itself white, together with some blood, gelatine, a small portion of albumen, and a large quantity of wafer. There is likewise a minute portion of salts, as will be seen by the analysis. By boiling, the gelatine is dissolved, the albumen sets and hardens, a very small portion of the fibrin is also dissolved, but the greater part remains in the fibrous form. 1781. Brrzcti'us ninrtr a cnrrfiil anah/sis of Iran flesh : .ibont three-fourths consisted of liquids. The fol- lowhtg were the constituents which he obtained: In 100 parts, fibrin, vessels, and nerves. iri.S ; muriate and lactate of soda, I-80; albumen and colouring matter of the blooil,'2'20; phosphate of soda, O OO ; cxtrarlive