Chap. IV. 617 FOREIGN WINES. white muscadine is also made on Vesuvius. A bottle of full-bodied wine of the ordinary Jdnd may be had at Naples for twopence halfpenny, and at Rome for fourpence. 3475. Calabria produces some good wines ; but in some parts the heat is even too great, and they are obliged to shade the vines from the sun. 3476. The principal wines of Italy are consumed in Rome, and some very fine are made in the Papal states, as at Albano, Monte Fiascone, and Orvietto, &c.; but they do not bear carriage, and are known only in the country. 3477. Throughout Italy generally the vines are suffered to run up in wild luxuriance, being carried from tree to tree round the inclosures, without any pruning, and to waste their strength, not in fruit, but in leaves and branches. In fact, such a quantity of fruit is produced with very little trouble, that the farmers, who use the wine only for their own beverage, and have no motive sufficiently powerful to induce them to take much pains, manage the vintage in the most slovenly manner. The wines are therefore often exposed to acidity. 3478. Sicily is nearly in the same circumstalnces as Italy with respect to the abundance of its wine, and the bad management of it in general. The Marzara and Marsala white wines are imported into England; and could they be had free from the admixture of Sicilian brandy, which is peculiarly harsh, would be found of good body, and to resemble the lighter kinds of Madeira. They are among the least expensive of our foreign wines ; and many of the vineyards are in the occupation of English merchants. Some of the hills at the foot of Mount Etna are covered with vineyards, and a great variety of wines are produced there ; but it is only the inferior growths that are brought to us. Some red wines are made, but they are not excellent. 3479. Corsica produces, among several wines of various qualities, one called ^ttr<ico/ore, of excellent flavour, and a fine red colour; it is stomachic. 3480. Greece, so celebrated in ancient times for its wines, still produces some of superior quality, and in many places the processes of manufacture are far from being injudicious. 3481. Before the oppression of the Turks, good wine continued long to be made in Candia, Cyprus, Scio, Tenedos, Cephalonia, Zante, Lesbos, Nanos, and Santorini. When under the Venetian republic, Candia and Cyprus supplied the whole of Europe, and par- ticularly Venice, with the finest Malmsey, and towards the end of the sixteenth century they exported 200,000 casks of this wine. Since the conquest of Greece by the Turks the quality of the wines has deteriorated ; but Candia and Cyprus at present afford an ex- cellent red wine resembling claret, and dry as well as sweet muscadine white wines of a very fine quality; in short, these two islands alone could furnish us with every variety of wine in abundance. Wine of Cyprus is particularly praised for its keeping quality, and improving by age; in that island, the hills on which the vine is cultivated are covered with stones or flints with a blackish earth. The vessels in which the grape-juice is fer- mented are of earthenware, covered internally with a mixture of turpentine and pitch ; and the art of making them is extremely ancient; the leathern bags in which the wine is carried are pitched, which communicates to the wine a taste which does not go off for many years ; it is ten years old before it is exported. Mr. Fuller infonns us that the chief production of Cyprus now is wine, of which there are several qualities; the red kinds are sound and well-flavoured; but the most celebrated is the white wine, called vino della commandcria, (from its having been originally made on vineyards belonging to the Knights of St. John,) which resembles in taste the vino d'oro of Mount Lebanon, or the Mountain of our cellars ; it is exceedingly strong, and wUl keep and continue to improve till a very great age. The muscadine wine of Cyprus is excessively sweet, and drinks best at two years of age ; it has probably undergone no change since the days of Strabo and Pliny, who considered it as the most valuable in the world; after sixty or seventy years this wine is as thick as syrup. 3482. But in many parts of Greece, where circumstances do not admit of the proper means being employed in making and preserving the wines, and where the poverty of the inhabitants prevents their having casks, they are spoiled by the pitch and tar which the skins to hold them are smeared with; and a custom prevails of adding to them salt, gypsum, and lime, with a portion of resin, as among the ancient Greeks. These mix- tures are not drinkable except by the inhabitants. 3483. In the Ionian Islands, now in our possession, some excellent wines are made. Those of Cephalonia and Ithaca have been found very fine, the former having a peculiar muscadine flavour. In Zante there are both dry and sweet wines. Corfu produces liosolio, a rich liqueur wine ; others resemble claret. These wines are now beginning to be drunk by some of the Turkish magnates, notwithstanding their prohibition by the Koran. In some of the islands they use vats of masonry, and some keep the wine in large earthen jars, which they bury up to the neck in the ground, in the manner of the ancients. Malmsey is a corruption of Malvasia, from Napoli de Malvasia in the Morea; where that class of sweet wines was originally made, and which has since been imitated in every