Book VII. ON FOOD. 408 liver. Flat fish and eels have none of this curdy matter, the flesh not being in flakes. All the livers of fish abound in oil. Fish having much fat or oil mingled with their muscles are less digestible than those which are leaner, but they are more nutritive as for instance, salmon, eels, and herring. Some of the cartilaginous fish, as skate, are also extremely nutritive. 2118. Sotnefish are said to be poisonous, but these reside chiefly in the tropical seas, and never visit our coasts. 2119. The flavour offish, like that of other animals, is influenced in a certain degree by the nature of their food, and on this account the same species of fish will vary some- what in its flavour on difierent coasts, and in difierent lakes and rivers. Some fish improve in firmness and flavour as they attain a certain age, as cod and haddock; but generally when they become old they get coarse. 2120. The season of the year lias the most decided influence upon the quality of fish, as connected with the time of their spawning. Fish, in general, are in the best condition before they spawn, and many while they are full of roe, as the smelt, pouting, mackarel, and sole, but it is universally the case, that immediately when the spawning is over, they are " out of season " and unfit for food : sometimes, indeed, at this time fish are unwhole- some. This circumstance is of so much importance, that it has been considered a fit subject for the interference of the legislature, which regulates the times during which only certain fish may be caught. When fish are in season the muscles are firm, and they boil white and curdy: but when they appear transparent and bluish, though sufficiently boiled, it is a sign that the fish is not in season, or is not fresh. Previous to the approach of the spawning season, there is a natural preparation necessary to enable the fish to undergo the fatigues and fastings by which it is accompanied. The muscles acquire size and strength, especially those connected with the tail, the principal organ of progressive motion, so that the body behind appears plump and round. A great deal of fat is deposited between the muscles, but especially on the belly, the flesh of which is at this time of considerable thickness. As the spawn advances to maturity, the fat is withdrawn for its nourishment, the belly becomes little else than skin, and while the epicure, upon seeing the large roe, imagines that his fish is in the best condition, it has nearly reached the maximum of its worthlessness. When the business of spawning is over, the leanness of the fish then becomes apparent, and the extraordinary muscular exhaustion which it has undergone is marked by the thinness of its head and the lanlmess of its tail. It appears, however, the same species of fish is occasionally subject to variations in the periods of spawning, which explains the reason why sometimes a fish is found quite good as food, while the rest of the species is poor and inedible. This is the case with cod, and also flat fish. The summer and autumn are the seasons most favourable for the procuring of fish in general, but on account of the various seasons for spawning, no month is without a snpply of some particular species. 2121. Fish surpass in fecundity all other animals used as food. In the roe of the sturgeon above a million and a half of ova have been counted : in the mackarel 129,000 ; in the perch 69,000; in the carp 167,000; and in the pike 166,000. 2122. Every part offish may he eaten with safety, with the exception of those that are poisonous. The hard roe, or that of the female, is particularly nutritious, often large, and forms an excellent food. Caviare is the prepared roe of the sturgeon. 2123. Naturalists have divided fishes into two great tribes, the osseous, and the cartilaginous, according to the bones. In the first, the bones are more or less hard and firm, and contain a great deal of phosphate of lime, as in the cod and ling; in the latter, the bones are soft, and consist only of cartilage, as in the skate. This distinction, however, is not precise, for osseous fishes have a great deal of cartilage, and some of the cartilaginous fishes possess a small portion of calcareous matter in their bones. Nor is the composition of the bones uniform, some having more phosphate of lime than others. Some fish are very gelatinous, as eels, and make excellent soup. 2124. The shin of most fishes is covered with scales; but some are almost without, these being very minute, as the eel. The thickness of the skin varies according to the strength of the scales ; it is, accordingly, very thick in skate, eels, &c., and thin in those species that possess larger scales, as the carp and bream ; hence, in preparing these fish for the table, the former are deprived of their skin, and the latter only of their scales. The surface of the skin of fishes is more or less covered with a slimy gelatinous or mucous substance of a peculiar nature, secreted by an apparatus for the purpose, and shed upon the skin by a number of minute ducts or openings: this is a defensive secretion against the friction and washing of the water ; but the integument that affords the chief defence to the skin are the scales. Those fish that want scales, or have them very small, have more of the sUmy matter, as in eels. Dr. Paris states that the pulpy gclatiuous skin of the turbot, and the glutinous parts about the head of the cod, though highly prized by gastronomes, are very apt to disagree with invalids.