CHEMICAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. 107 tHAP. I. uanner. Though quicklime is soluble in water, carbonate of lime is not: now the lime at- r.-acts the carbonic acid thrown out from the lungs, and is thus converted into the aasoluble carbonate, which, in consequence of its insolubility, appears as a white powder ilike chalk, producing the milky appearance through its suspension in the water. This iSFect appears to be the result of one of nature's laws, that we shall thus part with a Luantity of carbon which has been taken in with our food, but which is more than suffi- ident for the animal economy. 479. IFe come now to consider the oxygenous part of the atmospheric air, a great part of •hhich we observed was retained by the lungs. By experiments varied in many ways,'it is uound that a small quantity only of oxygen is contained in the air which is expired. When rfeating on the combustion of fuel, we showed that oxygen was necessary to its support, iind that fuel would not burn in air which had already served this purpose. The action iff the respiratory organs appear to produce an effect very analogous to what we perceive ni combustion: the oxygen is abstracted, and hence it must follow, that air which has terved to support life by being breathed will be as unfit for maintaining life or flame, as btiat which has passed through the fire, and has supported flanje. This accordingly we iLud to be the case. 480. If we were to breathe the same air over and over again, at every inspiration, we should ihbstract a fresh portion of oxygen from it, until at last, having'entirely consumed the oxy- t>,-enous part, the remainder would be incapable of maintaining either life or flame. This lact has been put beyond all doubt by experiments which are perfectly demonstrative. \i mouse was confined in a glass jar quite closed, so that no air could get either out or in; tnd consequently the animal confined was obliged to breathe the same air continually. It eemained for a little time without feeling any inconvenience, since the quantity of air in hhe jap was at first sufficient to supply the necessary proportion of oxygen ; but after a idme, as this diminished, and the animal was obliged to inhale nitrogen, and the oxygen Mcing reduced to too small a quantity for the continuance of life, the animal appeared lO be gradually more and more oppressed, and at length died of suffocation. A lighted laper was now introduced into the aii' in which the mouse had died, and it was in- :!.tantly extinguished; showing that the oxygen had been entirely, or almost entirely, itibstracted: an effect which was proved by an accurate chemical examination of the re- nnaining air. This instructive experiment will serve perfectly to illustrate the effect produced by boeing too long shut up in small or confined rooms, without sufficient ventilation, or :bhange of air. 481. We shall not here attempt to go farther into the subject of animal Physiology, nor Irrace the part which oxygen acts in the support of life, than briefly to notice, that in the well kinown circulation of the blood from the heart to the superficial parts of the body, by nueans of the arteries, and back again to the heart through the veins, it is obsei-ved that il;he blood which had become dark coloured in its passage through the veins, has, by being Ibrought into contact with the fresh air inspired by the lungs, its florid red is restored Ibefore it is received back into the heart to renew the circulation ; and thus it is concluded ilthat it is by means of the oxygen that its vital properties are kept up. If therefore we attempt to breathe any gas containing no oxygen, the consequence will bbe suffocation, fi-om the want of the supply of that element which is essential during every nminute of our existence. It must now be evident, from what has just been said, that if we v continue to breathe a limited quantity of air over and over again, we must by degrees Ideprive it of the whole of its oxygenous principle, and since what remains would be unfit I'for the support of life, we must then die like the mouse in the experiment. . 482. Before the nature of atmospheric air, and the important part which it performs in rrespiration, and the preservation of life and health, were properly understood, it is not surprising tthat many practices and customs existed extremely destructive to health, without the ■cause being perceived : and at present it is lamentable to observe the consequences which -still frequently result from ignorance in regard to this subject. Persons often sleep or ! pass a long time in small and confined rooms, where the quantity of air contained in them I must have had its vital principle nearly exhausted, or so much reduced, as no longer to be tfit for the purposes of healthy respiration. 483. Instances almost innumerable might be adduced, of serious and even fatal effects \ proceeding from similar causes. We shall mention one which has also been quoted lately 'On the same subject by Dr. Coombe. In the Edinburgh Advertiser of 1st March, 1833, < we are informed that " a distressing circumstance was discovered on Wednesday forenoon < on board the Magnus Troil, Shetland trader. Captain Ganson, lying at Leith. The master : and mate, who are brothers, went as usual on Tuesday night to sleep in the cabin of the ■ vessel, but not appearing at the customary hour in the morning, the crew thought they 1 had merely slept beyond their time. A little time having elapsed, they were repeatedly I called ; but no answer being returned, one of the men went into the cabin, where he found ' the two brothers almost dead through suffocation. It is thouglit that they had shut the