■. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. 187 iimoved by rubbing the places with powder of French chalk, which is a kind of talc. <3 tlie alabaster is very soft and tender, they are easily scratched or broken, and therefore .(juire to be taken great care of; if valuable, they should be kept under a glass. Broken I I ts may be joined together again by quicklime and white of egg. Alabaster may be -sily stained with metallic solutions, by the spii-ituous tinctures of dyeing substances, by coloured oils, in the same way as marbles. Sect. V. SCAGLIOLA. t842. Tliis is a material which is made to imitate various marbles, porphyry, and serpentine • well, that it is difBcult to discover, by the appearance, that it is not real stone. It is nuch employed for columns in the interior of houses, also for lining parts of walls ; and T table tops, stands and pedestals of various kinds for statues, busts, &c., and other :inamental parts where marble is used. It admits of a very beautiful polish, but cannot ': employed in the outside of a building, as it is destroyed by damp, and requires to be I'pt very dry. It is chiefly composed of plaster of Paris and glue, coloured by different .gments. These are mixed together, separately, according to the various parts of the .arble to be imitated, and while they are in a moist state, are stirred together like the ;tins in marble. This substance is very useful where great richness and magnificence is iquired at small expense. Sect. VI. LEATHER. • 843. The skins of animals were among the most ancient materials employed for cloth- ;g, and for certain parts of furniture. But, although these are pliable when recently riripped from any quadruped, as they dry, they shrink, become hard like horn, and will ) longer adapt themselves to the free motion of the parts they are intended to cover, ome process is therefore necessary to restore their original flexibility and suppleness, id to preserve them permanently in that state. Skin so treated, is said to be converted to leather. The art of preparing leather is of great antiquity ; we find it described in ;de poems of Homer, and it has been practised by the eastern nations from time imme- morial. The objects of this art are to prevent the destruction of the skin by putrefaction; lad to render them strong, tough, durable, and impervious to moisture, at the same time : lat they admit of dyeing, and polishing. : 844. Skins may be converted into leather by three methods. The simplest, and probably le first that was invented, consists in soaking the skin in water, and then forcing oil or 'Tease into its pores by hard rubbing. The oil which is thus introduced among the •bres, in the place of the water, preserves the suppleness of the skin as long as it remains iaere. This method is mentioned by Homer ; and the North American Indians prepare, II this manner, their deer and bufi"alo skins. They soak them in a mixture of the fat I ad brains of the animals, rub them well with their hands, and afterwards hang them up II the smoke, which assists by its antiseptic property in preventing their putrefaction. Leather is made in this country chiefly by two processes ; by tanning, and by tawing; i.Qd both these are sometimes combined, as in sheep, goat, and deer skins. 845. The tanning of leather is effected by steeping the skins properly prepared in in- lasions of astringent vegetables, as oak bark. Although this has long been successfully rxactised, yet the principles upon which the process depends were not \mderstood until about 'oe beginning of the present century; modern chemistry threw light upon the subject. 11 had been supposed that the effect of hardening and thickening the skin was owing laercly to that peculiar corrugation which is perceived when astringent juices are taken lato the mouth, and the lips are puckered and constringed, and that the fibres were thus rrought closer together. But M. Seguin, a French tanner, and a man of science, disco- ' ered that the efl'ect produced by tanning was not of a mechanical, but of a chemical, nature, rrhe skin is composed of two parts or layers ; the outer one is thin, and is called the cvticle •!T epidermin, and the inner is named the cntis or true skin. Tlie cutis consists of minute i'lbres, which are composed of gelatine or glue, as is evident, because that substance is iroduced by boiling skin till it is dissolved. Now M. Seguin discovered, that when : ■;elatine is drojjped into an infusion of oak bark, or any vegetable astringent, a brown 'nrecipitate falls down, consisting of a combination of the astringent matter with the : jelatine ; and that this new substance was insoluble in water, and was that in fact which eather contained, and to which it owes its properties. The astringent principle which bus combines with the gelatine of the skin M. Seguin named tannin, or tan. When .kin is tanned, therefore, a chemical change takes place in its nature : it resists the action )f water, and is no longer capable of putrefaction. Besides tannin, nstringent vegetables