ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 24 Book I. slight his work, and the employer has the satisfaction of having the best chance, that his house will be well built, and of paying no more for it than its just value. 72. A deviation from this mode is sometimes practised. Some master tradesmen being content with less profit than others, an agreement for prices oidy is made in the first in- stance, instead of having them to be arranged by the two surveyors above mentioned. This may reduce the bills somewhat; but there is some risk that the work will be executed in an inferior manner, yet so that the architect will not have it in his power altogether to prevent it. A third mode is to have the work performed by contract. Here the plans and estimates are made as before, and either each tradesman contracts for his portion, or some individual called a builder undertakes to execute the whole for a sum, he employing the several tradesmen, and perhaps doing part of the work himself. In this case, the architect or designer may, or may not, superintend the work ; but if he should do so, he has much less the power of checking its bad performance than if the tradesmen had been emplo3'ed by himself; and if the builder has engaged to do the whole at a low estimate, there is a great chance but both the materials and workmanship will be of an inferior description, particularly when there is no surveyor to superintend the execution. Many persons have the erroneous idea that by employing a builder only, they will save the architect's com- mission, and have the work executed as well and at less expense. This view, however, is fallacious. The mere builder without any check, has it in his power to put in materials of an inferior kind, and to execute the work in a worse manner than he would be permitted to do by a respectable architect; and the employer, instead of saving five per cent, may actually pay 10 or 20 per cent, more than he ought, without the possibility of a remedy, and have the mortification that his house, after all, may be Ul built. It is likewise to be observed, that it seldom happens the mere builder is much of an architect ; he has iisually been a tradesman, generally a carpenter or a bricklayer, and he is probably but imper- fectly acquainted with the other branches of the building business, and deficient in that general knowledge which the well educated architect ought to possess. Much evil to architecture has arisen from too little care having been bestowed on making estimates before work is begun, through which the actual expense has much exceeded them ; and some blame may be attached to those who, not to alarm their employers, give in the lowest calculation, omitting to state any addition for expenses, which, though imforeseen, always occur. Numerous instances which have happened, of the cost of buildings executed under architects exceeding their estimates, have led to the employment of builders, who, together with upholsterers, have been too often entrusted with the duties of the architect. The remedy is, that young architects should apply themselves more than they usually do, to the details in the practice of their art, and that they use every means practicable to keep within the limits of carefully made estimates. This is not the place for pointing out what should be the education and acquirements of an architect: it is sufiicient at present to state that he should not only possess in an eminent degree the arts of design, but that he should be intimately acquainted with the execution of all the details of work in every- part of the building business ; and therefore that no profession can be cited where greater industry and application, together with good natural talents, are required, than in that of architecture. There are some gentlemen who have an ambition to become their own architects ; but such persons are never aware, until it is too late, of the difficulties they will have to en- counter, nor of the vast variety of knowledge necessary, and which, for several reasons, can be acquired only in a professional way. They generally pay dearly for their amuse- ment, and very seldom gain any credit by it. 73. In the metropolis and its environs, besides the architect or surveyor under whose direction a house is built, every new building is subject to the examination of a district surveyor, whose duty it is to take care that the conditions of the " Building Act" have been complied with. 74. Twenty-four hours notice must be given to the district surveyor before any building or wall on a new or old foundation is erected within the limits of this act. The notice must be given by the first master tradesman who is to begin the work; and he is liable to a pe- nalty of 20/. should he neglect to give such notice, besides having all work condemned to be demolished that should be built contrary to the act. The surveyor receives a fee for his trouble, as arranged by the act, in proportion to the rate of the building. Any thing built or altered contrary to the Building Act is to be condemned as a nuisance, and re- moved ; and it is also the business of the district surveyors to examine all houses and walls in a state of decay, and to condemn them if their condition is considered ruinous and dangei'ous. ' . • , 7r>. The Building Act having passed for the improvement of buildmg, for security and health, and the prevention of fires, it is the interest of the public to see that it is not infringed. The district surveyors are accordingly very strict; and it is proper that every one who thinks of building oi- altering buildings should be aware of the princilml regula-