•Book XXVI. 1187 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 4 G 2 BOOK XXVI. PRESERVATION OF HEALTH, AND DOMESTIC MEDICINE. CHAP. 1. HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. Sect. I. GENERAl, OBSERVATIONS. 7024. Health in infancy and childhood will always form a consideration of deep interest tto parents. Their earliest solicitude must always lead them to seek the means of develop- iing in fair proportion all the infantile powers, bodily and mental, of their offspring. IThese means are comprehended in the term " good nursing," or in medical language, physical education." Maternal attention and foresight should always he directed to I this suhject; for "bad nursing," the mismanagement or neglect of the bodily powers of ochildren, is often the foundation of diseases in infancy, which leave permanent effects in I the constitution, or bring forward diseases which might otherwise have always remained 1 latent; thus blighting all the enjoyments of life that result from good health; besides v-which, so connected are the physical, intellectual, and moral systems of human nature, tthat in no individual can one of them be impaired without danger to the others. The iwisest system of education may never be sufficiently effective to eradicate the evils of ■" bad nursing." 7025. If any of the following details and observations appear applicable chiefly to tie ^affluent conditions of life, or comparatively useless to those whom pecuniary considerations •.would restrict in their domestic arrangements, still there will be found suggestions of a ^general description, and applicable to the common nature of childhood—suggestions 1 which may serve for any sphere of life in which sensible active mothers devote themselves -sufficiently to their maternal duties. Such mothers may bring up as fine, healthy, happy, children as the most expensively appointed nursery can display ; and even more so, for '; luxury and indulgence are not in themselves at all favourable in their influences over (childhood. 7026. Children, under all ordinary circumstances, may be brought up in the ■wholesome 1 liabits of cleanliness and activity ; may be taught self-restraint in regard to food ; may be tencouraged in cheerful enlivening pursuits; their minds may be awakened to useful (observations even by the simple exercises essential to the development of their bodily (organs. These are the principal influences promotive of infant health and vigour; and \ by these a merciful Providence has rendered the welfare of childhood independent of the f gradations in wealth and rank that are caused by the varying circumstances of civilised I life. Thus mothers, employing wisely the means of good nursing which nature entrusts tto all alike, may look with indifference, as mothers, on the useless appendages and iluxuries with which they may be unable to surround their children: may they not also : rejoice, if, while their condition denies their children privileges which affluence might 1 yield them, it also screens them from snares and temptations most fatal to their best I interests ? Without further observations we proceed to details regarding the rearing and manage- tment of infancy and childhood—subjects of deep interest to all who have the responsibility fof parents. Sect. II. ARRANGEMENT OF NURSERIES. 7027. In addition to what has been said in Book III. " On Ventilation," we may add tthat nurseries, or any rooms appropriated to the use of children, should be lofty, airy, dry, I light and cheerful if possible, and not on the ground floor, where the rooms -would be I more liable to be damp, and the air altogether less pure, than may be expected in the 1 higher parts of the house. Whenever practicable, children should have their day nursery ,-as well as that in which they sleep, that each room may be in turn thoroughly ventilated, • On this one circumstance health during childhood much depends; for it cannot be pre- fserved wherever fresh air is excluded. In children impure air brings forward constitu- itional diseases, which might otherwise have continued latent. Fresh air invigorates" and (enlivens children; pent-up air weakens and depresses them. Day nurseries should be [prepared for the children by having the windows open early in the morning, whenever I the weather admits of it. A short time suffices " to change the air " of the room, to use