HAP. VIII. 215 HISTORY OF FURNITURE. lose countries of southern Europe where good taste was once established, traces of it are I ill noticed by travellers, iu the forms of utensils and -various domestic articles. HISTORY OF FUENITUKE IN ENGLAOT). 1012. From the perishable nature of the materials, and the vicissitudes occasioned by lie warlike and unsettled habits of ancient times, nothing remains to us of the i'urniture .:f those ages when the nobility and gentry of England resided in castles and embattled iiaansions. Where security and defence were more objects of consideration than domestic lomfort, it is probable that little attention was bestowed upon mere conveniences, and litill less upon ornament in household furniture. When decoration was bestowed upon hhe fm-nitm-e of the great, this was in the Gothic style that universally prevailed. 1013. It was not until after the union of the Houses of York and Lancaster, when the vdngdom was brought into a settled state, that refinement began to be generally mani- Vested in the system of domestic life. Henry VIII., a prince who, with all his faults, had II magnificent spirit and a taste for the arts, employed Holbein, during the intervals of his more important avocations, to make designs for all kinds of fui-niture, which in richness I'ar surpassed any thing that had been previously seen in this kingdom. Holbein was x)orn at Basle in 1498, and was instructed in the arts of design by his father. His talents iHs a portrait painter are well known ; and he was possessed of much invention, as may be lieen in his ornamental works, which, however, were in the taste then prevailing on the I Continent. He visited London at the request of Erasmus, who recommended him to Sir 'IThomas More, the portraits of whose family gained him the patronage of Henry VIII. 1014. The best kind of furniture which was used by the wealthy in England during sdeveral succeeding reigns, was either of Dutch or Flemish workmansliip, or in the style lof those countries, as may be traced in the paintings of the old masters which represent hinteriors. In the oldest furniture of this kind, the legs of chairs and tables were straight, I'but decorated with turned ornaments, and sometimes they were spiral: they had always 1 cross bars to strengthen them. In the later Flemish more of scroll work was introduced ; lithe legs were of rather lighter forms, and somewhat carved ; and we perceive the elements I'of the sort of ornament which was afterwards carried to such excess in the reign of ILouis XIV. " Flemish chairs of that time," Hunt observes, " were wrought in ebony, walnut, cherry-tree, &c., with high backs, and stuffed in one long upright panel, or filled lin with wicker-work; the seats being also stuffed, and covered with costly kinds of mate- rrials, as various as their shapes. To those may be added low arm-chairs tastefully turned, :umd carved in ebony, enriched with ivory knobs and iulayings, chiefly of Italian or Flemish iimauufacture, with cushions or pillows on the seats. Besides these there were some little Ligilt chairs for women; and long seats, with backs and arms, resembling in foim the aancient settle, and holding several persons, were also much in use." — " But in this period," ^observes the same writer, " the splendour of the coverings of tables amply compensated ffor the rudeness and simplicity of the work so concealed: the most elaborate embroidery rwrought on the finest grounds, velvets and satins fringed with gold and silver, Turkey '.■carpets, and the choicest tapestry, were devoted to these purposes." To this we may add, t that this furniture is in general but little adapted for comfort, and has not much of form I to recommend it, as far as use and convenience are considered. The backs of chairs lalmost upright, sloping very little, are inconvenient: they are generally heavy and i clumsy; and, though often loaded with carving, this is seldom very tastefid in design, land usually coarse in execution. (See examples of them in Section 8. Chap. X. " Chairs aand Seats.") In jiiany articles of furniture, as in cabinets, this clumsiness often amounts almost to bbarbarity, notwithstanding the general rich efieet produced by the carver; and the work- imanship of the mere cabinet-maker is usually of a very inferior description. 1015. In our observations on Architecture, we have already obsei-ved that it was in the rreign of Henry VIII., and soon after the Reformation, that the ancient Roman architec- tture began to be introduced into this country, and to supersede the Gothic, which, pre- viously to that time, had been universal in Europe. But, at first, both these styles were I mixed together in a very rude manner: this was not peculiar to England, but was bor- r rowed from Italy, where the same practice had long prevailed, and had produced at last »what has been termed the cinque cento style. Notwithstanding the numerous faults and iabsurdities of this unnatural mixture, and the gross and clumsy designs produced by it, •there were frequently in the details much taste and knowledge of form in parts —the ' natural result of the assistance of able sculptors who were well versed in tlie study of design, and who had made good use of the various remains of antique sculpture and 1 painting wliich decorate those edifices that liad escaped the ravages of war and time. Thus in the cinque cento there is often much to admire, although we cannot approve of it as a whole. 101(1. We have stated, that the style of design in furniture has always kept pace with !• 4