loqi Chap. IX. FURS. the American, although among the latter are some of great beauty. The fur is much employed in boas, and is often dyed for sables. 5898. The sloth has an extremely beautiful fur, possessing a high lustre. 5899. The sea otter of North America has a very fine, close, soft fur. It abounds in the rivers Columbia and IVIissouri, and also frequents, in great numbers, the Aleutian and Kurile Islands between Asia and the north-west coast of America. This fur is jet black in winter, with a silken gloss, and that of the young animal is a beautiful brown. It bears a high price in China, where it was introduced in 1780, when furs had become so scarce in Siberia that the supply was insufficient for the demand in the Asiatic countries. It is not much employed in England, but chiefly exported to the north of Europe. 5900. The fur seal affords a skin for which the Chinese give great prices. Such numbers have been killed in the South Shetlands, that they have become almost extinct there. 5901. Tlie skhi of the common seal is made into leather by being tanned, or it is dressed ■with the far on for caps and various articles of dress. Among the northern tribes, these skins afford excellent clothing and coverings for temporary habitations. Hundreds of thousands of these animals are killed every year for their skins and oil on the shores and ice-fields of Newfoundland. 5902. Perhaps the softest and most delicate fur known is that which clothes a little animal called the chinchilla, about the size of a small squirrel, which inhabits Peru and the northern parts of Chili. The fur was known as an article of commerce, and much prized shortly after the conquest and occupation of Spanish America; and is mentioned by Father Acosta and Sir John Hawkins ; but the habits and character of the animal have been known in this country only very lately. The chinchilla burrows in the ground ; and Sir Francis Head, in his journey across the Pampas, found the numerous holes made by them dangerous in riding. Their flesh is remarkably fat, and is much relished by the people, who hunt them with dogs. There ai'e two species ; the chinchilla lanigera, the largest, is about nine inches in length, much resembling the rabbit; the fur is long, thick, close, woolly, somewhat crisped, greyish, or ash-coloured ; the other species is described as smaller, only six inches long, and having the -wool still softer. It feeds upon the roots of plants, is extremely gentle and docile, and may be easily tamed and kept in the house. Great numbers of these animals are caught in the countries adjoining the Andes, and sent to traders, who carry them to Buenos Ayres, or to Lima, whence they come to Europe. Captain Beechey lately presented a living specimen to the Zoological Society, and another has been added by Lady Knighton. An entire skin has been deposited in the British Museum. 5903. The skins of several other animals are employed as furs, and have various values; as those of the wolverene, racoon, genet, wolf, badger, lynx, bear, &c. The fur of the beaver, otter, lynx, and racoon are used principally for hats ; and the bear skirts, among other uses, furnish an excellent material for cavalry caps and other military equipments. The skins of the buffalo, of the rocki/ mountain sheep, of various deer, and of the antelope, are included in the fur trade. The white fur of the arctic fox and polar bear are sometimes brought from Greenland, but are not particularly valuable. - Among furs may be classed the Russian, Bucharian, and Persian lambskins, the soft, compact, and elastic wool of which is formed naturally into elegant curls or waves, as if pressed close to the skin by art; but when killed immediately after birth, or taken from the mother, they are still more beautiful, and often elegantly marbled with feathered ■waves, like silk damask. The most prized of the former are the blue, the black, and the silver grey ; but of the unborn lambskins, as they are called, the fine black is the dearest and most esteemed. These are very generally used as an essential part of the dress of thousands among the lower classes in Persia, Russia, Poland, E. Prussia, Hungary, and , Bohemia. 5904. The skins of the rabbit and hare are likewise dressed as furs, and the hair is em- ployed in hats, &c. The supply would not be equal to the demand were our furriers dependent upon our country for them. Hundreds of thousands of rabbit skins are annually imported here from Germany and other parts of the northern and middle dis- tricts of Europe, where myriads of rabbits are bred for this purpose. The fur of the Angora rabbit is excessively long. The prepared skins of the rabbit and hare being as warm as some furs, they are used as bosom comfortex-s by those who are subject to diseases of the lungs. 5905. The skin of the squirrel has a delicate fur, which, though small, is sometimes joined together in useful articles. .TOOG. As.furs arc unrd only in ttiintcr dresses, and arc necessnrilt/ laid vp dnrin/r the snmmcr months, it Iwcomes of Impnrlunre to kiiow by what menn« tlicy iniiy !)(■ ilofcmlod from tho raviitjcs of tlio mol,h, to whicli thny arc particularly llalilc. The most ullieaclous prcvcntivi:, It may bi! iircsmneil, is that which is adopted by the traders and dealers In furs; and on inquiry bam\i made of several, the answer ohtained is, that no dependence Is had on an^ of the strongly scented Rubstanc(!s, as camphor, commonly reeommenih^d for efl'ect- ing the purpose In question. 'I'he precaution generally practised is daily to take out and open the furs; and