587 Chap. III. BREWING. Tobacco is said to be used In beer In some way, from Its narcotic or other properties. It is very Injurioui when taken into the stom.ich. .j , . u ' j Bohemian rosemary and henbane are two poisonous substances said also to be used. Some other substances are said to be employed by brewers occasionally, to give some particular flavour! or to correct defects ; as ginger, coriander seed, carraivay seeds, &c. Bi/ the use of these narcotics, weak malt liquor has been made to imitate strong porter, constituting a beverage extremely improper. It is true that a very small quantity of any of these poisons may be taken internally -without danger, and are even employed in medicine; they should, however, be confined to the materia medica, and only used under the direction of a skilful physician, but by no means mingled with our common drink ; and there is little doubt but that the stupefying effect of some malt liquors is owing to their adulteration with some of these deleterious ingredients. Unfortunately, too, very few of these poisonous vegetable drugs can be detected by the chemist ; and are only recognised by the stupefying and injurious effects which they produce. Mineral adul- terations can be detected, such as copperas, sulphuric acid, lime, soda, potash, &c. That great quantities of these deleterious ingredients are imported we learn from official returns, from which it appears that in one year there were brought into the kingdom no less than 154,864 lbs. of cocculus indicus, 140 tons of quassia, 218,624 lbs. of gentian root and nux vomica. 3312. Various materials employed to correct the acidity of beer and other liquors will be described when treating on the management of the beer cellar. Sect. VIII. These are all alkalies and alkaline earths, and are in themselves harmless; as carbonate of soda, chalk, whiting, egg shells, pounded oyster shells, and marble dust. 3313. SubstMwes used for fining are described in Sect. IX. " Fining;" they are, isinglass, white of eggs, and hartshorn shavings. 3314. For colouring only burnt or roasted malt is allowed to be used by the brewer: this has been already described under " Malt." Burnt sugar was employed by the brewers formerly, and may still be in domestic brewing. There are two modes of preparing it. One is to boil the sugar in an iron vessel till it becomes a thick syrup, perfectly black and extreme^ bitter. The other method is to boil the sugar to a middle state between sweet and bitter. To both these preparations it is necessary to add lime-water before they are suffered to cool in the pot, in order to bring them to a proper temper, as without this they would become hard dry burnt substances; but no water must be put to them before they are sufficiently burnt. Liquorice is probably also used for its colour. 3315. Beer hearting Among the adulterations of porter ought to lie reckoned what is thus termed. One of the qualities of good porter is, that it should bear a fine frothy head, since professed judges of this beverage would not consider it as perfect without this requisite, although it might possess all the other properties of good porter. Genuine porter, fresh drawn, wlien poured from one vessel to another, exhibits on its surface a close creamy foam or head, which, when blown aside, instantly closes again ; but if the porter is too weak, pcrh.ips from an adulteration with small beer, this head is deficient. Some publicans have endeavoured to conceal this poverty by laying on the surface of the beer when just drawn a spoonful of an artificial heading made by whisking a solution of isinglass in sourish porter. This contrivance, however, does not effectually answer'its Intended purpose, as it may be distinguished from the genuine head by Its not closing of itself when blown aside. A kind of hciding that cannot be detected in the same way is made by adding to every barrel of beer half an ounce of a mixture composed of green vitriol (sulphate of iron), alum, and salt. This imparts also a degree of astringency to the beer, which porter drinkers sometimes prefer. So small a quantity of these salts is perhaps not injurious to health ; the same salts are found in many mineral wiiters used as medicine ; yet we should object to any mineral water, however weak, as a constant beverage ; and, besides, this enables the publican to conceal a real defect in his beer. The law prohibits this practice. 3316. To detect sidphate of iron in beer. —Fill two wine glasses with the suspected beer; place them in a good light, and into one of these put a few drops of a decoction of galls; stir this well, and observe if the colour of the beer is changed on comparing it with the other glass ; if the colour is blackened by the addition of the galls, this is a proof that the beer contains iron; and if the beer remains for four-and-twenty hours, probably the iron will be more distinctly manifested by the deposition of a blackish sediment. Salt is likewise sometimes put into ale on account of the taste, which pleases some palates, and it is said to excite thirst. It does not appear to be a useful addition. Sect. VI. ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF MALT LIQUOR. 3317. A great variety of fermented liquors have been prepared from malted grain in different period.i and in various places : but our object at present is only to consider such as belong to this country, briefly touching upon those which are made upon the Continent. Perhaps we cannot render this subject more intelligible than by prefacing it by a slight sketch of the history of our malt liquors, without attempting the depths of antiquarian research, for which indeed, like many of our domestic habits, the materials are extremely scanty. SuBSECT. 1 flistory of Malt Liquors. 3318. The particular mode in which barley and other farinaceous grains were originally employed in fermentation is unknown. 3319. Wy are informed by Herodotus and by Diodorus Siculus, that the Egyptians pre- pared a drink from barley not much inferior to wine ; and we are told that this material