Book XXV. 1178 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. it into two nests; this is to prevent the young from running to the mother -when she is sitting over fresh eggs, and perhaps occasion her to cool and addle them ; for sometimes when tlie young are about a fortnight old, the female, without waiting till they are fledged, will leave them to the care of tlie male, and lay again ; and it is not uncommon to see a fresh hatching going on while the young ones are in the same nest. When the young ones are taken, tiie nest should be cleaned out ; and they should be frequently examined, lest any of the young ones should die in the holes, as they will become putrid and pro- duce maggots, and bad smell. Every summer, after tlie first or spring flight of young, the nests should be thoroughly cleaned out, and the dung removed. TMs should be done in the morning, and the dovecot should never be entered later than mid-day; if dis- turbed in the afternoon, the pigeons will be discontented all night, and perhaps will sit outside, while their eggs are spoiling. The inside of the house should be well plastered to keep out vermin. Pigeons are generally fed in the open air adjoining their cot; but when the weather is inclement, or when it is desirable to attach them to their house, both food and water should be given them in it. For this purpose a small hopper may be fixed outside, from which the food, being put in, can descend into a shallow box within. Peas, the smaller kind of horse beans, wheat, barley, buckwheat, and oats, are eaten by pigeons; peas are the best; old tares are considered excellent food; new tares are reckoned scour- ing. Water may be supplied in a similar manner by a small bottle of water reversed in a small basin, in the manner of the common bird fountain. 6978. Pigeons require to have fine sifted gravel, or coarse sand, as they are in the habit of picking it up to assist their digestion; and if that is not supplied to them, they are apt to peck the mortar from the roofs of their houses or adjoining buildings. The usual mode of supplying them, is to place what is termed a salt-cat, in, or close to the pigeon- house. This salt-cat is a jar with holes punched in the side sufficiently large for the pigeons to get out with their bills the following mixture put into it; a gallon of fine gravel or drift sand, another of lime rubbish of an old wall; or if none be at hand, lime mixed with sand ; a pound of cummin seed, and a handful of salt; the latter two of which pigeons are very fond of; the whole is moistened with stale urine. Strong scents, such as asafcetida, are said to be agreeable to these birds, so as frequently to attach them to their habitations when they will not stay under other circumstances. 6979. Cleanliness is essential to the health of pigeons ; a neglect of it will cause them to be covered with vermin. The common house-pigeon is little liable to disease, although fancy pigeons, being monstrous productions, are particularly so. ' Little is known respect- ing any modes of curing them. 69R0. Laws respecting pigeons. Shooting, or destroying pigeons by any otlier me.ms is punishable by a fine of 20s. for every bird ItiUua or talicn. Any lord of the manor, or freeholder, may build a pigeon-house upon Ills own land, but a tenant cannot do it without the lord's licence. Shootiug, or killing, within a certain distance of the pigeon-house, renders the person liable to a forfeiture. Sect. VI. GUINEA FOWLS. 6981. This bird retaining somewhat of the wild nature of the original, which was from Africa, is apt to wander from home, and of com-se cannot be so conveniently kept as common fowls. They are remarkably shy, and are apt to forsake their nests if disturbed ; but, in general, their habits and mode of treatment resemble that of the turkey. There are several varieties, but being rather difficult to rear in our climate, and being noisy and turbulent in the poultry yard, they are seldom kept, and generally more for curiosity than use, though they are excellent for the table : and their eggs, though small, are particularly good. They can seldom be brought either to roost or lay in any house. Like the pea- hen, they dislike confinement, and generally choose some shed, tree, or bush, for their roosting place and nest. Sect. VIL SWANS. 6982. Tame swans are never kept except there be a piece of water for them to swim in, to which they are a great ornament, and it is necessary that the water should be clear, towards keeping it in which condition they assist. In its food it is verj- similar to the goose. The swan lays early in tlie spring, only once a year, and has seldom more than three eggs. The male assists in hatching. Tliey require little attention in breeding, except a small house for their young, for they usually build their nests in some secluded spot near the water, and prefer an island if there is one. They should not be disturbed, and. indeed, so powerful are they, that a stroke of tlteir wing might have a serious eftect. The c.vgnots are dark coloured when first hatched, and do not become white till their second year. Their bringing up is left to the mother, and may or not have food supplied, according to the