ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 186 Book V. 831. The teeth of the sea-horse are much harder than the ivory of the elephant, and the cuamel is used for making artificial teeth. 832. Carvings in ivory, when not kept under glass, sometimes become covered in time with a multitude of minute cracks, which get filled with dirt, and deface them. Glass not only protects them from this, but afibrds the means of bleaching or whitening ivory that has been discoloui-ed. This effect is produced by exposing them to the sun's rays under glass, turning each side in succession to the rays of that luminary. To remove the cracks above alluded to, the ivory should be washed in soap and wai-m water with a brush till the cracks disappear, after which it should be placed under glass for preservation. 833. Ivory may be silvered in the following manner: — Immerse the ivory in a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and suifer it to remain till it has acquired a deep yellow colour; then take it out, wash it with water, and expose it to the sun's rays, which will turn it black in about three hours ; tlie ivory will, upon being rubbed, acquire a silvery lustre. 834. Vegetable ivory is a singular substance lately introduced, and which is occasionally worked into small articles. It resembles ivory exactly, though somewhat more brittle, and more liable to change colour. It is the seed or nut of a plant {Phytalephas macro- carpu), having a character between a palm and a cycas, and growing in the valleys of the Peruvian Andes. The nuts are about the size of a hen's or pigeon's egg, and have been used from time immemorial by the natives of South America for the same purposes as ivory. Sect. III. MARBLE. 835. All marbles are carbonates of lime; that is, they consist of carbonic acid and lime. Of course they are the same as chalk, only that they are crystallised, which gives them their hardness, whereas chalk is of a soft earthy texture. Marble is corroded and dissolved by acids, and it agrees in its composition with limestones; whenever the latter are of such a textui'e as to admit of a polish, they are called marbles. 836. Marble is slowly rendered more brittle, and thus slabs are sometimes even bent by long- continued heat, as may be seen on the mantels of some chimney-pieces, where they are much exposed to the heat of the fire. White marble becomes easily stained by smoke and dust, and sometimes it is stained artificially of various colours for useful purposes. 837. The purest while marble is termed statuary marble, and comes to us from abroad, chiefly from Italy. It is the most expensive, as well as the most elegant. The veined marble is also imported, as well as several of the coloured marbles. 838. Ilai-e and beautiful marbles in almost endless variety are much sought after for tops of small tables, and similar pieces of furniture ; and some of these fetch very high prices. It requires no small skill to distinguish accuratel}' the different sorts, which are frequently incorrectly named. Some substances, also, are often called mai'bles that are not strictly so ; for example, serpentine, which is not a carbonate of lime, but consists of silica and magnesia. The Florentine alabaster is sometimes incorrectly classed with marbles; but it is sulphate of lime, and does not effervesce with acids as marbles do. We have in Britain and Ireland many variegated marbles of great beauty, which are occasionally used in furniture. 839. For the method of cleaning marbles, see the Section " On cleaning Furniture." Sect. IV. ALABASTER. 840. Tills substance has a near resemblance to marble, but is distinguished from it by greater transparency. 841. There are two kinds of alabaster; one is a carbonate of lime, and therefore is of the same composition as marble, but has been formed in the manner of a stalactite by water dropping in a cavern. Though very transparent, it is also vcrj- hard, and therefore seldom used for sculpture. The other kind is a sulphate of lime, and the same substance as gypsum from which plaster of Paris is made: but gypsum is called alabaster only when it is translucent, and has a grain resembling that of marble. Gypseous alabaster being soft and easy to cut, and having often great beauty and transparency, is mrich em- ployed for some ornamental works, particularly vases, stands for time-pieces, and similar things. Much beautiful alabaster being found near to Florence, the business of manu- facturing these ornamental articles is much prosecuted there, and also at Leghorn and Milan. Objects of this kind, made of alabaster, are liable to become yellow, particidarly if exposed to any smoke, but they may be restored in a considerable degree by washing with soap and water, and ailerwards polishing with shave-grass. Grease spots may be