(.Chap. III. THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. 763 , enduring, and likewise of one of the properties of .lir. The Germ.in ovens are too deep from the front to the farther end to allow of arranging the loaves conveniently ; and it is a common practice in Germany for girls ! to go into the ovens, and stay for a few minutes to arrange the bread. The reason why this great lieat is inot felt so much as might be supposed, is because the feet are cosed in flannel, and also because air does not .'p;irt with its heat so readily as solid bodies. 4351. The shapes given to bread are extremely various ; and this is a matter of some importance, as the equality sometimes depends iu a great measure upon it. The common shape of the loaves nifide by the baker r in England is nearlv' cubical, but rather a short prism with six unequal sides, a form which is produced by the rmode of halving. The dough is first made into the form of two thick cakes, and these are pressed together by : the baker's elbow, wliich is the cause of the deep indent seen on the top of the loaf. The loaf is thus nearly of a globular form ; and, as they are placed in mutual contact in the oven, by their swelling they press against . each other, and produce flattened sides; in consequence, sometimes they do not separate very readily where i they ought; and one of the alleged uses of the alum is to facilitate this separation. One of the reasons for [ packing the English bread so close together in the oven is that they may take up little room ; and another, : that they may lose as little in weight as possible, in consequence of which the quantity of crust is small; and ! this kind of bread is often not sufficiently baked. In the English common loaves, the sides where they are in ccontact with each other have no crust; and the upper crust differs from the lower from this circumstance: — the heat which ratiiates from the brickwork which forms the top of the oven, and which is conveyed by the t hot air from the furnace, is greater than that which is given out by the tiles on which the loaves rest. Several ^ other shapes, however, have been lately introduced by our bakers; and these are baked without being in ^ contact in the oven, by which the crust is increased. 4352. The imperjeclbaking which we often see inbakers'bread\s,naAou\>t,ovi'mg to the present law which fixes : the weiglit of the loaf. The loss of weight is variable according to the quality of the flour. In receiving bread ! from bakers in a hot state, there is sometimes a loss of five per cent, from evaporation ; for this reason parish : bakers always send in their bread hot to the workhouse when they can. The average loss of weight in baking i is about one-eighth of the whole. Formerly we had peck loaves weighing l71bs.6oz,; half pecks, 8 lbs. Uoz.; I quarterns, 4 lbs. fi oz.; and half quarterns, 2 lbs. 2ioz. At present the loaf nearest to the old quartern is the J 4 lb. loaf; if this proves 1 oz. lighter, the baker is liable to a penalty ; hence the baker is tempted to under- t bake. 4353. An oven for baking bread, heated by high pressure steam, has been made ; but this was upon a large • scale for a public company, and as it is not applicable to domestic purposes, it is unnecessary for us to I describe it. 4.354. Baking by hoi water has also been attempted. To efTect this, the hermetically-sealed tubes, filled 1 with water heated to 300° and upwards, have been used on the plan of Mr. Perkins ; but this mode must like- I wise be evidently of very limited application. Sect. X. BREAD M.<VDE OF THE MIXTURES OF VARIOUS GRAINS. 4355. Though wheat is the most valuable of the varieties of corn, yet it cannot be ciil- I tivated in very high latitudes, and demands a rich soil with plenty of manure; whereas 1 some other kinds of grain, as barley, oats, and rye, will grow on comparatively poorer ; soils, and may be raised at a cheaper rate; these grains will, therefore, necessarily continue to supply the bread of northern nations. But even in many parts of Britain wheat cannot be successfully cultivated ; and the crops are liable to fail through bad seasons, or other unfavourable circumstances. The employment of other grains also for bread is, there- fore, desirable; and many endeavours have been made to combine together the produce of several farinaceous substances, so as to obtain results that cannot be had from any one of them singly. It is important to record some experiments of this kind, as well as the practices of different times ; and we shall describe several varieties of bread which have been found useful. 4356. Bread of potatoes with wheat flour. — In describing bread made by professed bakers (Sect. IV.), we stated their practice of mixing some potatoes with their flour ; but what we are now about to mention is bread made of potatoes with only flour sufiicient to produce the necessary fermentation. In describing the composition of potatoes, we showed that their farina consisted almost entirely of starch without any gluten ; and, since the latter is the chief ferment, the farina of potatoes alone cannot be made into fer- mented bread. But if a certain portion of wheat flour be added, this mixture, worked into dough, will rise in the usual manner, the fermentation of the flour being commu- nicated to the whole mass. To effect this, however, equal quantities of wheat flour and potatoes are necessary: and it is to be observed, that though the economy may be con- siderable, and the bread nutritious, yet it is much inferior to that of wheat alone, as it is apt to crack and crumble, and grow clammy when it is stale. 4357. A sort of cakes via;/ be made of potato flour, without mixing ivith any other, aa follows:—" Its adhesive quality does not admit of baking or kneading unmixed with meal or wheaten flour; but it may be managed in this manner. A small wooden frame, nearly square, is laid on a flat pan like a frying-pan ; this frame is grooved, and so con- structed that, by means of a pressor or lid introduced into the groove, the cake is at once fashioned according to the dimensions of the mould. The frame containing the farina may be almost immediately withdrawn after the mould is formed upon the pan, because, from the consistency imparted to the incipient cake by the heat, it will speedily admit of being safely handled. It must not, however, be fired too hastily, otherwise it is apt to become unpleasantly hard, and unfit for mastication. This precautionary measure being observed, it will be found that, when thoroughly ready, the bread of jiotato flour, even unaided by any foreign ingredient, will eat very palatably. It might then, from time to