384 ON FOOD. ' Boor VII. counteract this tendency, it may be mixed with soda water, or have a little mamesia or a very little soda, put into it. ' 1937. To understand the perfection of milk as an aliment, independently of experience, which has universally declared in its favour, we must consider its chemical composition.' Dr. Prout has shown that all our principal alimentary matters may be reduced to three classes; the saccharine, the oleaginous, and the albuminous, represented by sugar, butter, and white of egg. Now, milk consists of all three : the curd, or caseous part, which is chiefly albumen ; the butter, chiefly oil; and a portion of sugar. Milk is the only substance pre- pared by nature so completely perfect as to be a compound of these three principles. 1938. There is a considerable difference in the milk of various animals. 1939. Milk of the hitman subject is much thinner than cow's milk, and contains more saccharine matter. It yields much cream, but no butter can be procured from it by agitation. 1940. Asses' milk comes the nearest to human milk of any other ; it has likewise more saccharine matter than milk from the cow, and is thinner, with a larger proportion of curd. It is considered as the lightest and easiest to digest of any ; hence it is a popular remedy in consumption, but is apt to cause diarrhoea in very delicate persons, if taken in too great a quantity. Artificial asses' milk may be prepared by dissolving two ounces of sugar of milk in a pint of skimmed cow's milk. 1941. Goat's milk is something thicker and richer than cow's milk. It has a peculiar aroma, contains a gi-eat deal of curd, and makes excellent cheese; also affording butter, which is whiter than that from the cow, and is said to keep longer. The milk of the goat is much used in Spain, Italy, and the south of "France. 1942. Ewe's milk has the appearance of cow's milk. It affords a larger quantity of cream, forming a soft and very fusible butter. Its curd is very soft and unctuous, and when mixed with that of the cow, it gives it a rich appearance. It makes excellent cheese, and in greater quantity than any other milk, but contains the least sugar of any. Ewes were formerly milked generally in this country, but that custom is nearly worn out of use. 1943. Mare's milk contains more sugar than that of the ewe, and hence it is much used in Tartary for making a fermented liquor. It contains scarcely any butter. 1944. Camel's milk is used only in Africa. 1945. Buffalo's milk is employed in India ; it is nearly the same with that of the cow, but rather thinner. 1946. From no other substance, solid or fluid, can so great a number of distinct kinds of aliment be prepared as from milk, some forming food, others drink : some of them delicious, and deserving the name of luxuries; all of them wholesome, and some medicinal; indeed, the variety of aliments that seems capable of being produced from milk appears to be quite endless. ^In every age this must have been a subject for experiment, and every nation has added to the number by the invention of some peculiarly its own. Milk, like- wise, enters as an ingredient into an infinity of dishes, for which we must refer to the re- ceipts for cookery. We shall, in this place, enumerate a few preparations used in Eng- land, that may be considered properly as varieties of prepared milk, and which, though in tliese times of modern refinement, little thought of, formed some of the luxuries among the articles of simple rural fare of our ancestors. 1947. Curds and wlwy, merely new milk coagulated by rennet, and the curds and whey eaten together, with or without sugar. 19J8. Curds and cream Here the whey is removed, and cream substituted ; or, if tliat be too rich, h.ilf cream ami half milk. 1949. Costorphin cream, so named from a village of that niime, two miles from Edinburgh, used to be in repute there and in the environs. The milk of three or four days is put, when first drawn, into a wooden vessel, which is submitted to a cert.iin degree of he.at, generally by immersion in warm water; this accele- rates the separation of the cream. The milk is then drawn oil by a hole in the bottom of the vessel; what remains is put into the plunge churn, and, Jifter having been agitated for some time, is sold as Costorphin cream. 1950. nevomhirc cream, called also clotted or clouted ornwi. — This is milk brought very gradually to near boiling, but not quite, in shallow tin vessels over a charcoal fire, and kept in that state until the whole of tJie cream is thrown up, which will be from twelve to twenty-four hours, according to the season. It is essenti.il in this preparation, that the simmering should not proceed to boiling. The vessel containing it is then taken off the fire, .and the cream remains on till it is cold, when it is skimmed olf, and is extremely thick, but per- haps not richer than the best common cream, though often thought so. Some, instead of heating the milk over a fire, put it into shallow vessels, which they set to 6*im upon boiling water in a copper. It is used for eating with fruit, tarts, &e., and is almost |ieculiar to Devonshire. It does not readily mix with tea or cofiee, except beaten up with a little milk. It is now frequently sent up to London quite fresh. 19.'il. Dutch clotted cream. — In Holland they put the fresh-drawn milk into a pan. and stir it with a wooden spoon two or three times a day, to prevent the cream from separating from the milk ; when the whole coagu- lates, the spoon will stand upright in it. . , . j ,. jj. „ ... I').')2. Ti/re is the name of a preparation used m Indni to eat with rice. It is made oy adding alittle butter- milk to warm fresh milk, and letting it stand all night: It is slightly acid. 19.W. Scotch sonr cream. — At night they put skimmed milk into a wooden tub or pail hiiving a spigot near the bottom. This vessel they put into a tub a little larger; and they fill the spare between the two with hot water and let the whole remain all night. In the morning they take out the inner tub, and, gently opening the spigot allow the thin milk, called wign. to run off, and the remainder will be found converted into a kind of thick sour cream. This is cateu with sugar. To make it requires some practice, as to the heat of the water.