THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 1164 Book XXV. sufficiently serve as examples. We may observe that an oTijection to the barrel-chum is the difficulty of cleaning the inside, from the smallness of the aperture. 6901. The operation of churning, whether it be cream or whole milk, is performed in the same manner; but the latter, being so much larger in quantity, the process is more laborious, and requires more time. From two to three hours' churning are necessary in making butter from milk, whereas an hour and a half is sufficient with cream. The best temperature for churning butter from cream has been very satisfactorily determined by a number of experiments sanctioned by the Highland Society of Scotland, and published in their Transactions. From these experiments it is concluded that the most proper temperature at which to commence the operation is from 50° to 55°, and that at no time ought it to exceed 65°; while, on the contrary, if at any time the cream should be under 50°, the labour will be much increased without any advantage being obtained, and a temperature of a higher rate than 65° will be injurious as well to the quantity as quality of the butter. But milk and cream, when churned together, require a liigher tempera- ture, which, it is generally thought, must be equal to 70° or 75° before butter can be obtained, and the common practice is for one person to pour in a small quantit3- of warm water gradually while another is churning. A thermometer here, it is evident, would be very useful, but the only one the dairy-maid knows is her fingers, and she is usually correct. It is necessary to observe that all churns should be well washed out and scalded immediately after the butter is taken out, and that buttermilk should never be suffered to remain in them. The churn should be scalded in the inside with hot water before the cream is put in to prevent the butter from clinging to it. Should the butter stick to the churn, which it is apt to do in warm weather, pour in a little cold water to solidify it. 6902. As soon as the butter is made it must be separated from the buttermilk and put into a clean wooden dish, the inside of which should be well rubbed with salt to prevent the butter from adhering to it. The butter must now be pressed to get out all the milk that may be lodged in the cavities of the mass. In this operation some persons throw the butter into cold water, or pour water on it, to assist in separating the milk, but this should never be done, as it injures materially the quality of the butter. It should only be well worked with the hand, or, what is much better, with a flat wooden ladle or skimming-dish having a short handle. A considerable degree of dexterity as well as strength is requisite in effecting completely the extraction of all the moisture, and in some places it is the practice to beat the butter with two flat pieces of board, but it must not be too much kneaded, or it will become tough and gluey. A small quantity of salt is usually added, though some prefer it entirely without salt; this is matter of taste. 6903. In the summer season, while the cows are fed on grass, it is not requisite to give butter any factitious colour; but in the winter and spring months it is common with dairy people to alter that tallowy appearance which is natural to butter at these seasons : this is effected by means of a little arnotto, which, after being reduced to as fine a powder as possible, is incorporated with the cream before it is put into the churn. In Devonshire they sometimes make butter from clouted cream, which, they think, gives a superior butter. For the manner of making clouted cream see Book VII. Chap. IV. 6904. Butter is made up, before it is sent into the house or to table, in various forms, sometimes into rolls or cylinders six or eight inches long and from an inch to two inches in diameter, or into round pats stamped by butter moulds. When butter is too soft for the latter purpose it may be put into small wooden vessels, which may be allowed to swim in a tub or cistern of cold water; or, what is better, they may be set in an ice- house for an hour or two, or the water in which the small floats are set may be iced; but on no account should water be allowed to touch the butter in making it up. When formed into the desired shapes they may be kept in a cool place till wanted. 6905. The salting and curing of butter have been already treated of in Book X. Sect. IX. " On the Preservation of Food." CHAP. V. THE MAKING OF CHEESE. 6906. The chemical nature of cheese, and of the coagulation of milk by which it is formed, have been already treated of in Book VII. Chap. IV. Sect. III., to which we refer the reader; and we proceed to the practical directions for making it. 6907. In the preparation of cheese several circumstances must be considered: snch as the season of the year—the milking, as well as the cattle furnishing the milk, and their feeding—the method of preparing the rennet and colouring—the mode of breaking the