BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 580 Book VIII. upon the kind of malt liquor to be made, the quality of the hops, the length of time the beer is to be kept, and partly upon the season of the year when it is brewed. One pound of hops to a bushel of malt is the usual proportion for ale that is to be kept ; that is the proportion used in the Edinburgh ale. The stronger the ale, the more hops it will bear, and if the ale is to be kept long, it may require a little more. Much here must depend upon the taste of those who drink the liquor. In England it is the custom to use rather more hops than in Scotland : Edinburgh ales have the least. For weak ales, a pound of hops to a bushel and a half of malt may be used, or ten ounces of hops to a bushel of malt; and this may do, if the ale or beer is intended for present use, and is not to be kept long. Ale brewed in warm weather may require from a pound to a pound and a quarter of hops to a bushel of malt ; in cool weather, throe quarters of a pound will generally do. It seems to be the fashion at present to have beer for the table much hopped, and very bitter ; for this, of course, the proportion of hops must be increased. 3270. Hops vary much in price, according to the kind, the season, and the abundance of the crops. Hops may be grown by private individuals ; but before picking, drying, &c., a duty to the excise must be paid of l^d. per pound; the using of unexcised hops renders any one liable to a penalty of 50/. SuBSECT. 5. — Particular Detail of the Process of Brewing. 3271. Method and regularity is of great importance in conducting every kind of busi- ness, but is particularly so in brewing ; for as the principal operations are begun and finished within the course of a short period, any neglect or hindrance is very likely to be the cause of marring, if not of spoiling entirely, the whole. 3272. Before beginning to brew, everything necessary should be properly prepared, and a great deal should be done on the day before the actual brewing commences: the ma- terials should be quite at hand ; the various vessels be in a proper state to be used, and should be placed in proper order ; the copper should be filled, and the coals provided for the fire. 3273. On the day for brewing, the copper fire is to be lighted early in the morning, and, while the water is heating, tubs may be filled with cold water ready to pour into the copper for the second mash. When the water boils, it is to be poured into the mash tub, and the copper should be filled again. The nature of mashing has been fully described Sect. III. Subsect. 1.; and the quantity of water employed in the several mashes must depend upon the proposed strength of the several kinds of beer to be made ; but in the first mash, an allowance must be made for the quantity of water which the malt wiU absorb and retain, and so much must be poured upon the malt, over and above that of the wort required, to make up for this. Well-made malt absorbs and retains water in the proportion of six gallons for every bushel of malt; therefore, whatever be the required quantity of the first wort, water more than this in the proportion just mentioned must be made use of. Besides this water absorbed by the malt, something will be lost by evaporation in boiling, cooling, and fermenting, the whole of which together will amount to about one-fifth of the ; quantity of beer required to be made. Suppose, for instance, that fifty-four gallons of beer were required to be made from four bushels of malt, then twenty-four gallons of water will •. be absorbed, and eleven gallons more must be allowed for waste ; that is, twenty-four and : eleven, or thirty-five gallons extra of water must be used above the fifty-four gallons. This quantity of water may be divided between the two mashes, according to the strength re- t quired for each. ^ 3274. The best method of ascertaining the proper temperature is by using a thermometer; ■ the heat of the water should depend in some degree upon the nature of the malt, and like- wise upon various circumstances which have been ah-eady explained under the head *' Principles of Brewing " Sect. III.; and it is impossible to fix upon any absolute degree of heat that should be constantly employed, different brewers varying in their practice several degrees from each other. 170° by the thermometer is that which is most generally recommended for the heat of the first mash, when pale malt for ale is to be brewed. Some brewers use a higher degree of heat, 175°, or even 180°. 3275. When a thermometer is not tn he had, or where persons are not in the habit of using it (althoiieh this is very easily leiirnt), the method employed by some to ascertain the right heat of the water is as follows; k and althougn this mode is far from being accurate, yet it is much better than none: — Put the water into the mash tub nearly boiling, and wait till the steam has gone so mucli off, that you can see your face clearly in the w.iter; or else draw your finger quickly through the water, and if you can do so without scilding it, the heat f Is right. It is very obvious tnat neither of these methods can be very exact; but much good ale and beer has ,' been brewed in this manner by those who have had experience. Beginners should use a thermometer. 3276. Another method may assist in gettitig a proper heat :—Mix two gallons of boiling water with ont gallon of cold water, that is, water of the heat it is usually of in moderate weather, the mixture will be about 170° of the thermometer. It must l)e observed, thi\t 170° is the heat that the water is required to be of w hen the malt is .idded ; but as the water will be cooled a little by the mash tun, it may be run in a few degrees t above this, to allow for cooling down to that point. 1; 3277. // is best not to put the fvltquantity of icater into the mash tub at first, but only st *