Chap. III. 577 BREWING. 3248. A mash stirrer. Jig. 557., is a stick rather larger and stronger than a broomstick, with two or three smaller pieces of wood, eight or ten inches long, put through the lower end of it and sticking out on each side. Three or four sticks, of the size of broomsticks, may be also useful occasionally in stirring. The size of the mash tub must depend in some degree upon the mode of brew- ing. Ifonekindof beer be intended to be made at three mashes, for every firkin, or nine gallons of beer, the mash tub should contain fifteen gallons. Thus, if two firkins of either ale or t.ible beer be required, then the mash tub must hold thirty gallons; and if one firkin of ale, and two of table beer be wanted, the mash tub must be of the same size. But if the brewing is proposed to be done with only two mashings, employing a larger quantity of water in the second mash, then the capacity of the mash tub must be eighteen gallons. From these data, any one desirous of brewing may easily fix upon the size of the mash tub, when they have determined upon the quantity they intend to brew at one time. This, and all the other vessels, may be furnished by the cooper. 3219. An economical mode of procuring vessels for a small brewing is the fol- lowing:— One of the largest sized casks sold at the wine merchants maybe procured ; then cut ofl' the two ends about a foot deep, which will serve for coolers ; and a bottom may be put to the middle piece to serve as a mashing tub; or a porter barrel may be sawn in two to make a mashing tub and fermenting tub. It is important that the heat should be prevented from escaping from the mash tun ; and it should therefore be kept covered with thick woollen cloths, or some lid of a non-conducting kind. 3250. Coolers are flat tubs, trays, or other vessels for the purpose of cooling the wort before it is fermented. In small brewings, common washing tubs will do tolerably well. Since the quicker this operation is performed the better, there ought to be sufficient pro- vision made of these before the brewing commences, that as much surface may be obtained as possible : the fermenting tun may serve for one. 32.51. In considerable breweries the coolers consist of shallow cisterns made of boards well jointed, with sides raised about ten inches all round ; and the wort is put into these only about two inches in depth ; several of these are placed at some distance above each other; often in the upper part of the building the sides are constructed with boards placed in the manner of a Venetian blind, so that the air has a free passage through the building. In some cases, where there is a great command of water, they make the wort traverse a pipe bent or twisted in form of a distiller's worm, or in any other convenient mode, which is placed in a cistern of cold water. In one brewery they have long used an apparatus consisting of three concentric cylinders. 558. : a stream of cold water, pumped up from a well, passes through the inner one, and also between the two outer ones: the interme- diate cylinder conveys the wort, which being every way surrounded by cold p.^ water is soon cooled without being exposed to the air. In domestic brewing such Ingenious methods are seldom or never used ; but as cooling the wort is often a matter of considerable difficulty where the space is limited, it is a proper subject for the exercise of invention. The ordinary method is to get together all the large shallow tubs or other vessels that are at hand; but in private brewhouses of a superior kind, shallow fixed cisterns are used. 3252. Care should be taken that the coolers^ and indeed all the vessels employed in brewings are perfectly clean, as the least acidity or mouldiness, remaining from a former brewing, is almost sure to inoculate the wort, and spoil the beer. To insure this, merely washing them with hot water is not always sufficient, par- ticularly if they have lain by without being used for any length of time. It will then be necessary to employ some substance that will neutralise and destroy any acid matter that may remain, such as potash, soda, or lime. 3253. The fermenting or working tun, or vat, in which the ale is fermented or worked, the brewers often call the gyle Urn. In a complete brewhouse, this is a large tub kept on purpose. In brewing on a small scale, any tub will do that is clean, large, strong, and enough to hold ale, and have room to spare for the head of yeast. A cask deprived of its head may sometimes serve as a fermenting tim for the ale, and the small beer may be fermented in the mash tub. In brewing on a great scale, it is supposed that the loss of a certain quantity of alcohol which escapes with the carbonic acid during the fermentation is an object worth attending to, and contrivances have been invented for fermenting in closed vessels to prevent it, and even for preserving the alcohol that would be lost. We may just mention that the fact of the evaporation of the iilcohol js proved by hanging grapes in the gas as it escaped from the fermenting tun, by which they acquired the taste of alcohol as if they had been pre- served in brandy ; and it has been demonstrated thiit closed vessels afforded worts somewhat stronger than open ones ; but in private brewing this loss from fermenting in open vessels must be so inconsiderable, that it cannot be worth while to do anything farther than to cover the fermenting tub with cloths. 3254. A hair sieve, or a wicker basket, through which to strain the beer from the hops must be provided. 3255. A light pail or two should be kept for brewing only, that they may be perfectly clean ; also a wooden bowl with a handle to carry liquor from one vessel to another. 3256. A tun bowl, or large funnel, through which to put the liquor into the barrels is 1 necessary. 3257. The casks for containing the beer must be of a size suitable to that of the family. The longer the beer is to be kept, the larger the casks should be, as it thus acquires ■ strength; but where a family is small the casks ought not to be large, as they would be Pp