719 Chap. XIII. ON SUGAR. to escape. When the aroma is -well developed, the roasting is finished; and the beans are turned out, cooled, and freed from their husks by slightly rubbing, sifting, and fanning. It is a peculiarity in the cocoa beans, that when first heated they are dry, and may then be ground to powder by a mill or by the pestle ; but by continuing the process of bruising, the oil separates, and forms the whole into a soft paste. One of the preparations therefore con- sists of Cocoa in Powder, which has been ground in a mill like coffee. Indeed the best mode of having the cocoa pure is to pm-chase the beans or nuts, which are now com- monly sold roasted, and to grind them in a large coffee mill. Cocoa is deteriorated by keeping, and at the end of two years, it has lost all its fine flavour. 4108. To make cocoa ready for use, an ounce is boiled in a pint and a half of water for about a quarter of an hour, and then it is to be kept near the fire to settle and become tine ; after that it is to be poured off into another pot for immediate use. It is drunk with sugar and milk or cream like coffee. To save time, it may be boiled over night. 4109. t'ocoa pni/e is prepared as follows. The cocoa beans are heated in iron cylinders, and deprived of their hnsks, in the manner above described ; the kernels are then put into an iron mortar heated by keeping lighted charcoal in it for some time, and pounded and rubbed with the pestle also heated, till the whole is quite smooth like a paste. It is then placed upon a marble, or, what is better, a porphyry slab made hot thoroughly before the fire, and worked well with an iron roller, until it is as soft and smooth as butter; or this process is performed more expeditiously in a mill. A little sugar is added to make it dissolve readily when used. Sometimes it is put into tin moulds, and dried in square cakes. It is said, however, that much heat dissipates the flavour. To prepare a beverage from cocoa paste, nothing more is necessary than to stir it well in boiling water. 4110. Soluble cocoa is made in cheap little squares, and is mixed up with a little sugar, and probably sometimes with adulterating ingredients. By means of the sugar this readily dissolves, and is useful as being easily prepared. 4111. Flake cocoa is the cocoa simply crushed by a machine that delivers it in the form of flakes. Since the duty has been so much reduced, cocoa has become an article of consumption among all classes. 4112. Cocoa is extensively cultivated in the West Indies and in South America. The consumption is inmiense. Humboldt estimated that in Europe in 180G at 23,000,000 lbs, of which fi'om six to nine millions were supposed to be consumed La Spain. He observes that, " Alike easy to employ and convey as an aliment, it contains a large quantity of nutritive and stimulating particles in a small compass. It has been said with truth, that in Africa, rice, g^um, and shea-butter, assist man in crossing the deserts. In the New World, chocolate and the flour of maize have by their portability rendered accessible to him the table lands of the Andes, and vast uninhabited forests." Cakes of chocolate may be considered as a kind of portable soup of the Tropics. CHAP. xm. ON SUGAR. Sect. I. INTRODUCTION AND HISTORY OF SUGAR. 4113. We have stated before that sugar or saccharine juice is a constituent of many vegetables; and it is accordingly extracted from several; but by far the most abundantly from a cane or reed called the sugar-cane, from which our sugar in common use is made. We shall first describe the manufacture and qualities of this kind, and afterwards speak of some varieties of sugar which, though much less common, are yet occasionally pro- duced from other vegetables. 4114. History of sugar from the cane. — Sugar, which has been used in Europe for several centuries as an agreeable condiment, was imperfectly known, and was not in common use, among the Greeks and Romans. By our ancestors it was seldom obtained previously to the discovery of the West Indies; and at that time honey was usually em- ployed for sweetening liquors and food. It is not a little curious that the Chinese, the most ancient nation now existing, were acquainted with the manufacture of sugar from the sugar-cane above two thousand years ago ; the cane, indeed, is a native of China, and grows abundantly in that country. Chinese sugar in small quantities occasionally found Its way into ancient Europe, and the Greek physicians, who procured it from the Arabian merchants, employed it as a medicine, describing it as a kind of concrete honey, which exuded like gum from canes or reeds. The Arabian navigators first brought it from India into Arabia and Greece; but it docs not appear to have been transported to Rome probably on account of its great bulk and little comparative value, which rendered it an