Chap. I. 543 WATER. 3054. Tliefen loheel, by which the extensive fens of Holland arc drained, is a vertical wheel with floats round the circumference, like a breast wheel for grinding corn. Ma- sonry or woodwork incloses one of the lower quarters of the wheel, so that when it turns round the floats bring up a body of water that fills the trough surrounding the floats. This is also used extensively in the fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridgeshire. 3055. The bucket wheel is like an overshot water-wheel, only moved round the reverse way, so that the buckets come up full. 3056. The endless rope is a most simple, but not a modern contrivance for raising a small quantity of water. A hair or soft hemp rope is made to pass over a wheel at top, and another at the bottom of a well. The rope is put in motion by a handle, and so much water adheres to it in rising that it is sufficient to make a constant small stream. To prevent the water from descending again with the rope, it is made to pass through a tube at the top to squeeze off the water. Sect. XVI. SUPPLY OF WATER TO LONDON. 3057. No city in the world is so well supplied with water as the metropolis of the British empire is at present. 3058. At the time of tie Norman conquest, London was supplied with water from the Thames on the south- ward side, and on the north of the river by several streams that took their rise on the higli ground ; the principal of tliese was the River Fleet, which was once clear and navigable, rising in Hampstead, but which, passing through a populous part of the town, became afterwards so filled with impurities as to obtain the name of Fleet Ditch, and is now concealed from view by a vast brick arch, and converted into a common sewer that conveys its muddy contents into the River Thames. There was another stream, called VVallbrook, that ran through London Wall, through the heart of the city, into theThames ; and athird, named Langbourn from its great length, which passed through the spot where Fenchurch Street is now placed, and passed by Sherbourne Lane into the river: of these all traces have disappeared, the ground being entirely built upon. Towards the West a stream called Oldbourne, or Holborn, began at Holborn-bars and ran into the River Fleet. Besides these there were several wells, the names of which remain in several streets, as Clerkenwcll, Clement's Well, Holywell, &c. 3059. Towards the end qf the thirteenth century, London had increased so much that the Fleet River became too impure for the supply of water for domestic purposes, and the wells were altogether insufficient. The want of water, one of the first necessaries of life, was severely felt by those who were at a distance from the Thames, and this led to the forming of reservoirs, called conduits, in several places, to which the inhabitants could resort. The first that appears to have been erected was the Great Conduit in West Cheap, called Cheapside, in 1285, the water to supply which is said to have been brought from Faddington. Many of these conduits were constructed between 1401 and 1610, being chiefly built over wells and springs. One was situated in Lambs Conduit Fields ; another near the inn, named after it. White Condnit House, and the remains of which existed a few years ago. A regular trade was carried on by persons called water-bearers employed to convey water from the conduits to the respective houses ; and sums of money were frequently left by " good and charitable people," for the purpose of keeping up these conduits : such importance was attached to them, that they were put under the care of the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen, who annually Tisited them in great state, to see that they were in proper condition,—an occasion which formed a good excuse for a hunting match and a dinner. 3060. The conduits having been found instffflcicnt for the increasing demands, the idea was conceived of con- veying water into London by an artificial river : but although the citizens of London obtained an act of par- liament empowering them to cut and convey a river from any part of Middlesex or Hertfordshire, yet so difficult did such an undertaking appear to be, that it was not carried into effect; nor was a second act obtained in the early part of James I. s reign more useful in advancing the project. .\t length, .Si';- Hugh Middleton, a native of Denbighshire, citizen and goldsmith of London, who had amassed a large fortune by a mine in Cardiganshire, and who had been chiefly instrumental in obtaining the last act of parliament, offered to the Common Coimcil, on condition of their transferring to him their power under these acts, to undertake the work at his own risk and charge. This being agreed to, he commenced this work in 1609, but experienced numerous unforeseen difficulties through the art of civil engineering being then little understood in England, and from various obstacles through the proprietors of the lands in which the river was to pass. The City of London refused to aid him in his grand and useful design ; and his own finances being reduced when he brought the water to Enfield, he would have probably been under the necessity of abandoning the undertaking, had he not petitioned King James himself, who, upon a moiety of the concern being made over to him, agreed to pay half the expense past and to come. The work was in consequence completed; and on the 29th of September, 1613, six years after its commencement, the water was let into the great reservoir at Islington. Notwithstanding the successful accomplishment of this magnificent work, so little was the public sensible of its advantages for some time, that the original shares continued for many years at a small value: but such have been the profits from the project that the shares are now of immense value. To convey the water to various parts of the metropolis was attended with a great additional expense: but notwithstanding the great benefit thus conferred upon the public, the once wealthy and public-spirited Middleton found himself at the completion of the whole, a ruined man. Lady Middleton, his widow, received a pension of 20/. a year from the Goldsmiths' Company. 3061. Since that time, various Companies have been formed for supplying London with water from, the Thames; but complaints having been made of the great quantity of sediment deposited from the Thames water, much attention has of late been given to the subject of obtaining the water in a state of greater purity. No river water is superior to that of the Thames in general; but when it descends below the bridges, it receives much impurity from the sewers which discharge themselves into it, as well as from manufactories and other sources, which have considerably increased of late. Filtration will, in a great mea- sure, deprive it of its impurities ; and, it is well known to those who have examined into'this subject, the chemist will find it difficult to distinguish between water taken up at London from that procured higher up at Hampton Court, after each has been so purified. 3062. A great number nf Artesian wells have likewise been made by boring through the London clay in London, from which a valuable supply is procured of very fine water ; and it has been proposed to sink largo shafts for the purpose of supplying the metropolis ; but it does not appear that the quantity that could be raised in this manner would be sufficient, nor that the constancy of supply could be depended upon. Besides as the water is now managed by the water companies, there seems little cause for complaint; on the con- trary, no capital enjoys such abundance of fine water as London. 3063. Much information respecting the qualities of the Thames and other waters with