446 Book VII. ON FOOD. •wise met with abundantly in mushrooms and in diflferent species of fungi. The principal part of tlie almond and of the kernels of many other nuts appears, from the experiment of Prout, to be a substance analogous to coagulated albumen. The juice of the fruit of the Oclira (Hibiscus escukiitus) contains a liquid albumen in such quantities, that it is employed in Dominica as a substitute for the whites of eggs in clarifying the juice of the sugar-cane. Like gluten it soon putrefies, particularly when kept moist, or in stagnant water. It is contained under the fibrous rind of flax and hemp, and its decomposition during steeping occasions the ready separation of the fibres, and likewise the unwholesome and offensive odour of water in which this has taken place. It is this also which occa- sions the disagreeable and unhealthy smell of decaying leaves of vegetables, and particu- larly of cabbages, and of the water in which they have been boiled. Like animal albumen it consists of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. 2329. Yeast, or the vegetable ferment, which we sliall see more of under " Fermentation," is supposed to be either gluten or vegetable albumen; but it does not appear to be absolutely certain whether it is one, or a modification of both. 2330. Vegetable Jibriii and vegetable casein are enumerated among the proximate prin- ciples of vegetables by some late writers : but as it does not appear certain that they are not identical with those already known and described, we avoid rendering our subject unnecessarily complicated. Sect. V. SUGAR, OR THE SACCHARINE PRINCIPLE. 2331. Sugar is very generally diffused through the vegetable kingdom: but its importance demands that it should be treated of at large in a separate part of this work. At present it is proposed to consider it only in brief as one of the proximate principles of vegetables. Sugar exists more or less in almost all vegetables, but abundantly in ripe fruits, and the roots of the beet, carrot, &c. It is procured most plentifully, as is well known, from the juice of the sugar-cane and of the maple tree. 2332. There are several species of sugar, which agree in having a sweet taste, hut which differ in other respects. 1. Cane-sugar, or common sugar, which is seen in its purest state when crystallised in white sugar-candy, and in refined sugar. Sugar from the maple tree and beet root is the same as that from the cane. 2. Sugar from grapes contains less carbon than cane-sugar, and is not so sweet; it requires two and a half times as much of this sugar to sweeten to the same degree as cane-sugar ; it cannot be made to crystallise distinctly, but solidifies in grains; it dissolves less rapidly than cane-sugar, and gives a more fluid syrup. Sugar of malt agrees with this, and also the sugar of honey, of raisins, figs, and many other sweet fruits. There are other varieties of sugar from various vegetables, but as they are not well understood, and not important, we need not mention them. 2333. We have already stated that sugar can be prepared from starch; and hence the reader may be less surprised at being informed that the woody fibre, or the wood of vegetables, a principle which will be described, has been employed for the same purpose. Persons not familiarised with chemistry may, perhaps, consider it as a piece of pleasantry to be told that sugar has been made from common wood, deal boards, sawdust, straw, and even linen rags, all of which consist of woody fibre ; yet this has been efi'ected by Braconnot through the action of sulphuric acid: but as the fact is rather illustrative of the powers of chemistry, and the nature of vegetable substances, than applicable at present "to any practical purpose, we shall not enter into farther details respecting it. 2334. The only sugar in general use in Britain is that of the sugar-cane made in the West and East Indies; the "maple tree sugar is made and used in North America, and the beet root sun-ar in France. Besides the use of sugar for domestic purposes, it is extensively employed for producing ardent spirit, either pure, or in wine, beer, and all fermented liquors; and it is the only substance from which this can be procured, as will be fully explained 'under " Fermentation," " Brewing," " Wine-making," and " Distilling." It is likewise employed in the preservation of fruits. There are various opinions respecting the nutritive properties of sugar. It is readily digested by the healthy stomach: but with some dyspeptic individuals it does not agree. Sect. VI. MUCILAGE. 2335 It is usual to consider mucilage and a solution of gum in water as the same: but HermstMt makes this distinction,—the solution of gum in water is transparent and glu- tinous, and can be drawn out into threads, whereas that of mucilage is opaque does not feel glutinous, but slippery, and cannot be drawn into threads. Dr. Bostock also takes a similar view of the subject. Of mucilages there are a great variety of k'"d/J^^t- ing in the roots, stems, leaves, and seeds of many plants. They seldom ".'L^^.^^tlPTu spSntaneously, but may be obtained artificially in a state of tolerable purity, though it is