Chap. III. 757 THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. quantity of potatoes into the bread as the flour will allow of, and then to charge as much for this bread as for bread all of wheat flour, is certainly an imposition. With respect to the addition of potatoes being any improvement in bread, it is extremely difficult to decide such a question except accurate experiments were made with the materials, and such experiments can scarcely be expected from the bakers. We have certainly seen bread of the very best quality made in private families without a particle of potato, and until the superiority of potato bread is distinctly proved, we must withhold our belief that it is an improvement upon that where the best flour and other materials are employed. We are aware that the flour or starch of potatoes is largely manufactured in Paris for the pastry-cook, but this article is dearer than flour, and is therefore used for other pur- poses than adulteration. Our bakers do not use the starch or flour of the potato to mix with their dough, but rub up with it the whole of the potato, which contains but 30 per cent, of starch. 4311. Potato starch mat/ be detected in flour by examination with a microscope; the grains of starch may be seen of a round form, and to possess a glistening appearance, which is not the case with flour. See " Starch," Book VII. Chap. VIII. Sect. II. 4312. Common salt, which is essential to bread in a small quantity, is rarely employed in too great propor- tion as a fraud. Salt has the property of causing the dough to take up more water than it otherwise would, and thus increases the weight of the bread ; but as this increase is mere water, the bread gains nothing in nutritious quality. This kind of adulteration, however, is not likely to be carried to any great extent, as the saltness of the bread will be complained of. 4313. Sand is sometimes found in bread ; but this cannot be supposed to be introduced purposely by the miller or baker. The sand is derived either from grain badly cleaned, or more frequently, perhaps, Irom the wearing away of bad mill-stones. In some parts of the country, the mill-stones being of too soft a material is not unfrequent. This accident Is a serious evil, as fine sand is extremely prejudicial. 4314. On (Ac Con^ViCTi/, bakers appear to be no less ingenious than !n this country in the contrivance of adulterating processes. Some time ago, the bakers of Lisle were detected in using sulphate of copper (blue vitriol), a poisonous substance, in bread, to correct the qualities of bad flour. Sect. VI. HOME-MADE BREAD. 4315. Hitherto we have treated of the general principles of the art of making bread, which cannot but be desirable to be understood by those who have the management of a family ; and we stated in our introduction. Sect. I., that the convenience of having public bakers almost in every village has, in many places, superseded, in a great degree, the neces- sity for baking at home ; nevertheless, domestic baking is very generally practised in the country ; and one advantage of this is' that bread can be secured from any adulteration, and may be had of the best quality. It has been said justly, that "the evils of adulteration are probably exaggerated;" but with some persons the suspicion that they are eating other substances than the produce of wheat is painful enough. In general, good home- made bread is observed to be more full of flavour than that of the baker, to keep better, and to go farther, being more nutritive. In many families a difficulty occurs respecting the oven; one built of brick is the best; and, where the family is large, a bakehouse is found an important requisite: but perfectly good bread may be, by proper management, baked in iron and other ovens on a small scale, and we must refer the-reader to the article " Description of Ovens," Sect. IX. Chap. III., where the various kinds will be treated of. 4316. With respect to the economy or saving in baking bread at home, some persons con- sider that it is so little as not to deserve attention, except the family be large. This depends much upon opinion, but it is well to see what the cost actually is, in order to determine this question. The following calculation, given in an excellent little work entitled " Cottage Comforts," will place this in a clear light. " The expense of making a bushel of wheat into bread will be as follows: Wheat, 9s,; grinding, 9d. ; yeast and salt, 3(/. ; heating the oven, \s.; in all, lis. : but from this )-ou must deduct at least 6(/., as the bran and pollard, of which you have 13 lbs., is worth more than Jrf. per pound. I have also rather overcharged than otherwise on the other things. Salt, now the tax is taken off, is very cheap; yeast, if you have brewed lately, you need not buy, and Is. is perhaps more than ample allowance for heating the oven: perhaps 10s. will be about a fair calculation for the baking. From your bushel of wheat you will get from 58 to 59 lbs. of bread, that is, about thirteen loaves and a half of 4 lbs. each, which will cost you at the baker's 1 Is. O^f/. Should there be no convenience for grinding, the best white flour may be purchased of good quality usually at about 5.?. 6(Z. per bushel of 56 lbs." From tliis it is obvious that the saving is not great, and that the baker's profits cannot be consi- derable, if the materials they use arc of the best kind. But it is also obvious that it is possible to make bread at home of the very best quality, at least as cheap as it is sold by the baker, with the certainty of its being genuine. If a certain proportion of potatoes are added to the flour, as is the practice with bakers, then the bread will be cheaper, weight for weight, but the real saving will be little, as' the 3 C 3