CONSTRUCTION OF FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES. Chap. II. 1103 us that coaches were not used in England till 1555, -when the first was made for the Earl of Rutland; and in 1564 one was constructed for Queen Mary. Queen Elizabeth had been on the throne seven years before she had a coach, but she used frequently to travel in one during her progresses; before that time, she used frequently to ride behind her lord chamberlain on horseback. Since that time coaches have been in constant use. 660-4. Mr. Adam, in his interesting work on Wheel Carriages, has described a vehicle contrived in France in the reign of Louis XIII., and brought into general use in Paris. It was named a brmtette, or roulette, and was in the form of a sedan chair, placed or sus- pended between two large wheels, in such a manner that the bottom of the body was within a foot of the ground, and it was drawn by two men. This mode of hanging the carriage may have partly suggested the form of our present hackney cabs. 6605. About 1624, sedan, chairs were introduced into England by Sir S. Buncombe, who was a great traveller, and had seen them at Sedan ; these were long a rival to coaches. 6606. The addition of springs to carriages, with a view to prevent the jolting which occurs in passing over rough roads, is, comparatively, a late improvement. Before steel springs were invented for this purpose, the bodies of the four-wheeled carriages of Europe for travelling were suspended by long ropes or thongs placed beneath, which were fixed to the frame with wheels ; and the seats were suspended on straps, somewhat in the manner in which we still see occasionally light butchers' carts in the country parts of England. In countries where the roads are very bad, springs can scarcely be used, being liable to break, and repairing them on the spot being generally impossible ; but the incon- venience of the necessarily long leathern straps by which the bodies were hung would naturally lead in time to interposing some kind of spring between the body and the carriage to break the concussion, and elastic wood was first resorted to. This was applied in various ways, until the superiority of springs made of steel became evident, and the improvements in roads permitted their adoption. CHAP. n. CONSTRUCTION OF FOUK-WHEELED CARRIAGES. 6607. TTie construction of modem carriages is far from being simple or obvious to persons in general who have not paid particular attention to them ; indeed, we believe that few persons will be found, even among those who keep carriages, who have correct ideas respecting their construction and mode of action; as, for example, in what manner a four-wheeled vehicle is enabled to turn. On this account, and likewise because this interesting subject has not hitherto been treated of satisfactorily in any popular work, we have considered it desirable to explain the leading principles on which wheel carriages in general are constructed, a branch of knowledge highly useful to all who have to choose such vehicles for their own use ; and we shall likewise point out the distinctions between the various carriages at present in fashion, but confining ourselves to those used for pleasure and convenience, and drawn by horses, omitting steam carriages and all vehicles for transporting goods, as carts, waggons, &c. 6608. Less than half a century ago, the variety of carriages was very limited; but these have multiplied so much of late years, that an enumeration, or even a distinct classifi- cation of them, has become difiicult. Besides our native constructions, a few foreign kinds have been introduced, which have been submitted to the alterations of our coach- makers to adapt them the better to English habits. As it is now the custom much to con- sult the particular wishes and tastes of the possessors, coach-builders have departed from the trammels of ancient forms, and are continually producing new varieties, which cannot be easily classed; and the former names having been still in a great measure retained with some modification, great confusion has taken place in the nomenclature of carriages. Among those which have been so remarkably altered, the phaetons may be cited as an example, and carriages termed phaetons are exceedingly unlike each other. This is endeavoured to be corrected by some addition to the name, as cab phaeton, britzschka phaeton, &c.; but it would be impossible to lay down any rule by which an inexperienced person could name or class the difierent carriages now in use. In some cases, the new carriage has been named after the inventor, as the Tilbury and Stanhope. 6609. Carriages are divided into four-wheeled and two-wheeled, each of which forms a class that requires to be considered separately; and although the latter is the simplest, yet we prefer commencing with the first, as containing the greatest number of parts, many of which are common to both classes. ' 6610. The most simple kind of four-wheeled carriage is that which was probably of the original construction ; a large open hex, or a covered chamber placed upon two fixed