572 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. quantity of it, and partly upon the heat of the weather. In very large breweries, it is said to rise even 12° or 1,')°, but perhaps not a third of this in private breweries. 3224. Any sudden check to the fermentation is very injurious, often occasioning a cloudiness in the beer which nothing can remove, and this same thing happens by a ciiange in the weather; such alterations will aiFect small quantities much more than large ones, and therefore changes will be serious in small brewings that will not be much felt in those on a great scale. 3225. A few further remarlis on the difficulties of this process or part of the art may be ■useful. The smaller quantity of wort to be fermented, the less is the heat excited by the process, and consequently the slower the fermentation. If the fennentation does not begin soon enough, or is too languid, the fault may lie with the yeast, which may be in too small quantity, or its quality may not be good, in which latter case it may be necessary to pro- cure some from another brewery, though this is an evil that should if possible be avoided. If the quantity is too small, more may be added, from which little inconvenience can arise compared with that of an imperfect fermentation. Sometimes sifting a little flour of malt all over the surface is of use. Too languid a fermentation may also be owing to the tem- perature of the wort not being sufficiently high : in that case plunging a pail full of boiling water partly into the wort will raise its temperature. If the quantity of yeast be too great, or the temperature of wort too high, the ferment- ation will go on too rapidly and there will be danger of its passing into the acetous stage: when this is the case, everything should be done that will check the fermentation by cooling or otherwise. A pail of cold water plunged into the wort may be tried: the doors and windows may be thrown open. Too much yeast is liable to render the beer what is called yeast bitter. High dried malt does not ferment so readily as pale malt, since the starch has become a little altered. 3226. With respect to the extent to which the fermentation is to be carn'erf, this will depend upon the kind of liquor to be brewed : in ales it is not desirable that all the saccharine matter should be decomposed and converted into alcohol, because they require other qualities besides strength ; it is requisite that they should have a certain degree of sweetness and viscosity ; therefore the fermentation must be stopped before all these are destroyed. On the contrary, in porter, which may be called a dry malt liquor, sweetness is not wanted, and the fermentation is carried to a greater length. Since alcohol or spirit is lighter, bulk for bulk, than water, it is evident that the more spirit there is produced by the fermentation, the lighter the wort which is fermenting will become ; this lightness, which marks the quantity of alcohol produced, and of course that of the saccharine matter altered, is called by the brewers attenuation; and when they speak of the attenuation being carried far, they mean that the decomposition of the sac- charine matter has been effected so much. The weight or specific gravity of wort is greater than that of water, just in proportion to the addition of the malt extract; hence the brewer has a mode of measuring this strength by means of an instrument called a saccha- rometer, and by the same instrument he can determine whether he has carried the fer- mentation as far as he ought, by ascertaining how much lighter it has become. This brings scientific brewing to a much greater degree of certainty than it could attain without the use of this instrument, which is now universally employed in this country by professed brewers. But in private brewing a small difference in the strength of malt liquors is of less importance than in a manufactory, where a great part of the profits may turn upon it. Neither is it to be expected that this practice could be employed generally in domestic brewino- ; and thei-efore we have not introduced the description of the instrument. 3227^ Nothing positive can be said with respect to the length of time during which the fermentation of ale lasts, because it varies considerably according to the heat of the weather, and the degree to which the wort has been cooled down. In ordinary domestic brewing it is generally completed in from twenty to twenty-four hours ; but may sometimes require two or three days. In Scotland, in the great breweries, they fement very slowly: for ton or twelve days, aud even a fortnight or three weeks, which is considered by some as a good practice. , , -j 3228. A small (/uantity of sugar is added to the malt by some brewers when they consider the natural sugar of the malt' not sufficient. This proves sometimes a useful addition, and serves to increase the strength of the liquor without the risk of running it into the acetic state. SuBSECT. a. — Cleansing and Barrelling. 32''9 Wien the fermentation appears to have in a great measure suh.iidcd, by not throwing up any more yeast, it will still go on for some time, but in a much more quiet and less obvious manner, a few bubbles of gas rising occasionally. The liquor cannot necome quite clear so long as this is the case, since loose particles of the dregs or subsided yeast will continue to float about. Tlicre is still some fermentable matter remaining in the liquid ;