Book I. 44 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. Fig. 43. They do not form so ing off the snow before it thaws. The ridge of the slates is likewise covered with a slip of lead, as also the angles of the roofs, called hips and valleys. When the whole of the roof is covered with lead, or in flats, as the sheets must not be soldered together, they are joined by the edges being hammered round a semicircular piece of wood, b,fig. 42., in the manner shown by the dark lines, a. 156. Tiles form a heavier covering for a roof than slates ; and are no^j only employed for offices and houses of an inferior class. There are two kinds of tiles in common use, plain tiles and pantiles. Plain tdes are of the same form as slates, but are laid on laths of oak or fir, and bedded and pointed with mortar. The pitch of the roof requires to be 45 degrees, and the tUes require frequent pointing. Pantiles are curved, as in fig. 43., and are laid on each other dry: they are seldom used except in cow-houses, sheds, and other out-buildings, warm a roof as plain tiles, and are more liable to be deranged. 157. Tiles, in the form of antique tiles, fig. 44., are employed at present by the Italians. They are picturesque, and are suited to low-pitched roofs, a represents one of the tiles, having the edge turned up : two of these being laid together, the turned-up edges are covered by a semi-cylin- drical tile, b, bedded in cement. These last are made a little tapering upwards, to fit on each other, c represents the appearance of the tiles when put together. TUes of this form are also made occasionally in some parts of England. Common tiles are not nearly so durable as slates, being much affected by the frost: but when glazed, as they sometimes are, with a dark glaze, they are very durable. When the red colour of tiles is objectionable, they may be covered with a coat of anticorrosive paint. In ornamental cottages, a thatched roof often forms part of their character. Thatch is cool in summer and warm in winter; but the objections to it are, danger from fire, and want of durability : it is also liable to harbour insects when it grows old. For temporary constructions, painted canvass may be used, or even paper pitched and sanded. Boards or shingles may likewise be employed. Fig. a. Sect. II. DETAILS OF FINISHING THE INTERIOR. 158. Having now completed the skeleton or carcass of Hie house, it is necessary that it should remain some time after it is buLlt, before proceeding to finish it, not onlj' that it may become thoroughly dry, but that the walls should settle in every part There are few ordinary buildings where some slight settlements do not occur in the foundations from the unequal pressure of the parts; sometimes these may not be of the smallest con- sequence, as they soon stop entirely: but should the finishing be proceeded with in too great haste, and before the carcass is completely settled and dry, the various internal works, if ever so well executed, may be injured, and appear as if they had been badly executed. Gentlemen are often impatient to have their house finished ; but it is proper they should be acquainted with the risk that they run by insisting on too rapid a completion. 159. 77(6 finishing comprehends all the details of work, both within and without^ iude- pendent of the bare walls, and timbers of the floor, partitions, and roof: it is executed by the joiner, plasterer, painter, glazier, paperhanger, plumber, smith, and ironmonger. Of these the principal is the joiner, who lays down the flooring-boards, puts up the staircase, makes the doors, sashes, window-shutters, and, in short, all the mouldings and finishings of wood throughout the house, together with such parts of the furniture as are called fixtures ; he also sometimes supplies verandas, and window-blinds: the greatest part of the joiner's work is prepared in the shop, ready to put up. The plasterer coats the walls with plaster and stucco, and puts up the ceilings, cornices, and other plaster ornaments. The house-painter paints the outside and inside work; the glazier fills the sashes with glass; the paper-hanger covers the walls of apartments with paper; and the plumber supplies the water-closets, and puts up the necessary lead pipes and cisterns. The style of finishing must, like that of the exterior, depend upon various circumstances, such as the expense to be incurred, and the condition and rank of the proprietor. With regard to the expense, much care should be bestowed upon choosing the mode in which the various works are to be executed, and the decorations to be introduced: iu these, ni>t