25 HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. LChap. VI. li.ions, and see that the district surveyor is properly informed of his intention to huild. >Neglect of this has sometimes led to serious inconveniences. 76. Taking a house on lease, or purchasing it. Every person about to take a house on l^ease, or to purchase it, should, previous to his doing so, have it well examined by an i'2xperienced surveyor, as to its actual condition, and the repairs that may be necessary. TThis is a matter that can only be properly understood by professional persons, for what- (•3Ter may be known of the subject by others, it is scarcely possible that they can be aware lof all the circvunstances to be attended to ; and the neglect of sufficient examination may ssubject the tenant at the end of the lease to make good dilapidations, which being only in aan incipient state when he took possession, required a practised eye to detect them. IBadly constructed drains, or roofs, commencement of dry rot, settlements in walls, decay- iing or bad sashes, the strength and stiffness of floors, and many other circumstances are oonly well understood by professional persons. CHAP. VI. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OP BUILDING. 77. General Observations.—It is not our object to introduce into this work a regular itreatise on building. What we propose is, to give those_ general ideas with respect to the cconstruction of domestic residences which it may be useful for the employer to be aacquainted with. When we are about to build, we cannot, as has been already observed, vwith propriety dispense with the assistance of an architect or surveyor ; for the numerous Jdetails of actual work or execution in a building are too complicated, and require too imuch experience, for any one to direct, except those who have made building their pro- I'fession. But it may, in many cases, be convenient to have such a general acquaintance ^with the subject, as may give an insight into the principles of construction, and of the [processes of the various trades employed, as well as in the modes of charging and checking texpense, which not vmfrequently far exceeds the intention, and even ability to pay, of I those who venture on building Sect. I. CONSTRCCTING THE CARCASS OR SKELETON OF A HOUSE. The operations of the builder are divided into two parts, the formation of what is tech- inically called the carcass, or skeleton of the house, and the Jinishing. The carcass com- I prehends the foundation, walls, beams, and joists of the floors and roof, covering of the 1 latter, and woodwork of the partitions. What remains to complete the interior constitutes t the finishing. We shall commence by a description of some of the principal materials, as 1 bricks, stone, and mortar. SuBSECT. 1 Bricks. 78. Briclis are the materials most generally empluyed for the walls of private dwellings I in this country ; and when they are well made, and properly burnt, no substance is : superior in durability, as may be perceived in the remains of ancient Roman buildings, where the bricks are now as perfect as when they were laid, a circumstance owing to I the skill and care which were used in their manufacture ; but modem bricks are often so ' carelessly made, that they crumble to pieces in a very short time. Much judgment is therefore required in the selection and purchase of this material, which is best procured by visiting the several brick-fields before buying any. Where good brick-earth exists upon an estate, some may venture to make their own bricks ; but to succeed, it will be necessary to engage persons who are experienced in digging and tempering the clay, and burning the bricks. All clays, even the purest, consist of two kinds of earth, alumina and silica. When kneaded with water, clay forms a paste that is plastic, or capable of being moulded into any form. This may be dried in the air, or burnt in the fire. In the former case, it acquires a certain degree of hardness ; but if this dried clay be again ground up with water, it recovers its former plastic state. Sun-dried bricks, though not durable, were formerly used in many places, as Babylon, Egypt, &c., and are still employed in the east, but never in this country. If dried clay be subjected to a red heat, its hardness is nnich increased ; and when broken into fragments, these are no longer capable of being softened