tCHAP. I. 355 NUTRITION CONSIDERED. Sect. III. CHESnCAL PRINCIPLES OF WHICH FOOD CONSISTS. Having now treated concisely of the physiological part of our subject, we proceed to ppoint out the correspondence between the chemical composition of the only substances fit i for food, and that of our coi-poreal frame, in consequence of which the former is enabled ■ultimately to become a part of ourselves. 1719. Although the number of different substances which tve find in nature seems almost linfinite, yet chemists have shown that the whole of them, whether animal, vegetable, or umineral, are composed of a very limited number of ingredients or principles. The sub- fStances which we usually meet with are compounds; and chemistry is an art by which a ■'Compound can be separated into the elementary bodies of which it consists. When the Tvast variety of natural substances are analysed by the chemist, it is found that they are Komposed of only fifty-four elementary ingredients, each substance that we meet with leontaining two, three, four, or more, of these ingredients or principles united together: land since these ingredients cannot by any known means be farther separated into other amaterials, they are called the simple or elementanj substances. 1720. Formerly, it was supposed tlie elements of which all bodies consist were only four, air :'2arth, fire, and water, — an opinion which is stated in many books still to be met with : but hhis doctrine is now known to be erroneous; three of them, air, earth, and water, being hhemselves compounds. We shall not here enumerate all the simple elements: those who inre not already acquainted with them may refer to any late work on chemistry. We Miropose at present to speak only of those which are necessary to our immediate purpose, i.iamely, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. A few others will be mentioned afterwards. 1721. It is considered that there is no such thing as a conversion, either by nature or art, of tmy one of these elements into another. They are, as far as we know, formed originally [[uite distinct, as gold is from silver or from copper, and, as these may be mixed or J.Uoyed, and separated again, but cannot be changed one into the other, so, in like manner, tVhen there is a compound of carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen, the chemist can detach these lilementary principles from each other, and he can make new compounds by combining hhem again in different proportions ; but he cannot alter the nature of the elements them- eelvcs; they are permanent, at least as far as is known, and he cannot change them in htie slightest degree. Neither are any of the elements better or worse: they are never xnown to be imperfect: there cannot be carbon nor oxygen of different qualities: they jan appear only to vary from having a slight admixture of other substances. This abso- lutely invariable nature of the elements it is necessary to keep constantly in mind. 1722. iVow all animal and vegetable substaiices ichatever, including those of our corporeal rrame, are composed or made up chiefly of tlie four elements which we have enumei'ated, aamely, carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen. Thej^ likewise contain a few other lilements in very minute quantity, but we may omit the mention of them at present. 1723. TIte element culled carbon, though it enters into the composition of every animal nnd vegetable substance, cannot be presented in a perfectly pure state, insulated or freed ■ -om all its combinations, except in the diamond, which is supposed to be elementary car- I on crystallised. ' Charcoal, the well-known black substance which remains after an animal or vegetable '«ody has been burned, is the nearest to the pure state in which we familiarly see this . ement We may here observe, that it is a common expression, " such a substance is i.arned to a coal, or to a cinder," and the vulgar idea is, that the substance has been con- ■rted into charcoal or cinder by burning. This, however, is not the fact ; there is here no •mversion ; the carbon of the cinder or charcoal existed in the flesh or vegetable origi- lilly, but was so combined with the other principles, that its presence could not be !!rceived or even suspected, either by colour or any other circumstance. Tlie act of , iming has merely driven off into vapour the other elements, the oxygen, hydrogen, and I trogen ; and the charcoal, being less volatile, remains. This fact is quite obvious in the ■ larcoal of wood, in which the organic structure of a branch is distinctly to be traced. . he process of burning has, in fact, only effected the separation of the elements from each . liher ; and tlien the body is said to be decomposed. But charcoal is never pure carbon ; it I 'Ways contains a small proportion of other substances ; this vegetable charcoal has about iirr cent., or more, of various earths, together with about 10 per cent, of water and other itile matter. Animal charcoal, obtained by reducing bones to the substance called bone rli, contains only 10 per cent, of carbon. The various properties of charcoal will be '■ribed, when we consider it as fuel. 1172-1. Hydrogen, another of these elements, is best understood by calling it, as it used to ., inflammable air or gas ; the gas burned for light consists of this combined with a little rbon. Although hydrogen exists in the solid stale, as an ingredient in a great variety A a 2 o J