1020 DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. Book XVIII. CHAP. IV. GLOVES. 6027. Gloves are not a modern invention, although they are much more used at present than in former times. Xenophon describes the ancient Persians as wearing gloves, and Varro informs us that they were of long standing among the Romans. But they were often worn only as a protection of the hand in particular cases ; in warm climates they were not thought very necessary, and it was only in cold countries that their use became general. Gloves were, in the early ages of Christianity, introduced as a part of monastic costume, and in later periods formed an essential part of the episcopal habit. The glove ■was employed by princes as a token of investiture ; and to deprive a person of his gloves ■was a mark of divesting him of his office. Throwing down a glove constituted a chal- lenge, which he accepted who took it up, a custom which was continued down to the reign of Queen Elizabeth ; and this ceremony was performed, perhaps for the last time, at the coronation of George IV., when his Majesty's champion entered Westminster Hall, com- pletely armed and mounted, and throwing down his glove challenged any one to dispute the right of bis sovereign to the crown. Gloves were particularly used in hawking; and the custom of presenting them at weddings and funerals is still general. They were for- merly considered as a valuable new year's gift, when they were richly worked and embroidered. 6028. Gloves are wade of various materials; leather, silk, linen thread, cotton thread, cotton cloths, and worsted. The good qualities of gloves are strength, warmth in winter, coolness in summer, elasticity in fitting well, and to be well sewed in the seams. There is a distinction also between those which will bear washing and such as ■will not; likewise in the manner of sewing. Of leather gloves there are a great many kinds, according to the quality of the material, or the uses for which they are required. Of these the principal are : — Kid gloves, the most beautiful, from their softness, thinness, and elasticity, fitting the liand almost like a second skin. They are white, and dyed of all colours, but white kid is always worn in full dress. Those of French manufacture are certainly superior to ours iu the neatness of the workmanship, and for elasticity they are highly prized. This superiority has occasioned many imitations in this country, and it is said that most of what are sold here for French are in fact home made, fiom French or Italian skins. We have few goats in England, therefore our kid leather is chiefly imported from Switzerland and Tuscany, whence it comes by way of Leghorn. Most of the lower priced gloves sold for kid are made of Iamb-skin, which is thicker ; a vast many are made in Worcestershire. It used formerly to be the custom in the south-west of Irehmd to slaughter many cows while in calf. The skins of these unborn calves were of extraordinary fineness and delicacy, and from such was prepared the leather of which the celebrated Livierick eloves were made. This practice, however,-is now almost discon- tinued ; and whatever merit the Limerick gloves may still possess is owing to the skill of the manufacturer, and not to the superiority of his raw material, which is generally kid leather. Beaver gloves are among the most common of the cheap leather gloves, manufactured cliielly at Hereford ; they are died of manv colours, but they do not wash. Woodstock gloves are a superior kind of soft leather, made of Iamb skins, which have the advantage of bearing washing; they are manufactured chiefly at Woodstock, in Oxfordshire, which has been celebrated for them ever since the time of Queen Elizabeth. Buckskin is the strongest kind of leather gloves, and washes well. It may be had white, and of various colours. Doe skins are of a thick, strong, and soft leather; bears washing. Tan leather is the name of a very serviceable, strong, and cheap glove, for riding, driving, or gardening; its colour is that of bark or tan, .ind it is either common or York tan. S/icep- skiii is not much used, except in the army; it is generally white. Leather gloves are likewise sometimes lined with fleecy hosiery or fur for winter, and are sometimes cuffed. fi029. Machines have been lately invented/or sewing leather gloves, by which the process is performed more accurately and which reduces the price. The principal leather glove manufactories in England are at Wor- cester, Woodstock, Yeovil, Leominster, Ludlow, and London. 6030. Thread gloves are either of linen or cotton thread ; but it is the former only that are properly known in the shops by the name of thread gloves, though it is now a common practice to pass olT cotton thread for linen thread. They are a remarkably cool wear in summer, and bear washing perfectly ; they are sometimes of unbleached yarn. 6031. Cotton gloves are the cheapest of all, and are dyed of various colours ; being warm, they are much in use for common wear. Many are imported from Germany of very low price. Berlin gloves are strong, and of white cotton ; they were originally imported from the Continent, but arc now made in great numbers in Nottingham and Leicester. These, and the other cotton gloves, have almost driven away the common beaver. 6032. jean, sattcen, and catnbric gloves are cut out of tlie cotton cloth of these n.imes, and sewed together: their use is confined to women. The first are strong, but the cambric gloves are bought merely for their cheapness, having nothing else to recommend them. 6033. Mittens are gloves made of various materials, of which the tips of the fingers are wanting, and are used in work that requires the points of the fingers to be uncovcn^d. 6034. Silk eloves ; these are of various qualities, determined by their weight and the ne.itiiess of workman- ship. The French white are the best: they are also bl.nck, and coloured. A figured silk net glove has lately come mucli into use among ladies ; it is extremely elegant and cool in summer. Gloves are now also made remarkably cheap, of spun silk, Cma. II'nrstedgloves arc oim,my Unas, inmos woo/.md iAcZ/nnrf are extremely soft and warm. Dutch knit plain and lined, are strong and warm : German worsted are the cheapest. Worsted gloves, though not so piegant as others, have a great advantage in their real warmth In cold weather. The above gloves, of silk, cotton, and worsted, and thread, arc now generally woven in the loom ; knit cloves, formerly so common, being seldom to be met with. Several other names of gloves may be found in shop lists • and every winter produces something new: gloves of various kinds of cloth sewed are now intro- duced ■ they arc warm, and fit well. Elastic wristbands to gloves arc a late improvement.