:ftAP. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 461 oil in which they gro-w. Peas are also ground into flour, which forms a milky solution rith water owing to the presence of an oUy matter. Although highly nutritive, ripe peas ire much more indigestible than the corns, and the bread they afford is apt to lie heavy m the stomach : it is chiefly confined to the labouring classes, and those who have strong lowers of digestion. . . ^ i. . j ^ 0443 When °-reen peas are sent to market in sacks, they are apt to heat, and a termen- ^tion commences in a few hours, by which the pea loses its sweetness and fine flavour ; his may be observed constantly in the season in Covent Garden market. Those sent in iieves or flat shallow baskets are not liable to this objection. 2444 Ripe peas anah/sed bi/ Einhoff gave, in 3000 parts, starcb 126.5 parts; fibrous matter analogous to starch, with the coats of the peas, 840 ; mucilage 249, saccharine matter 81; albumen 66 ; earthy phosphate U ; volatile matter 540 ; loss 229. 2445. Sugar pea.—This is a variety lately introduced, very sweet, and in which the :ough internal film of the pod is wanting. These pods, when young, are boiled whole, and saten in the manner of French beans. 2-146 The chick pea is little known in Britain. It is a very small variety, much cultivated in the south of Kurone Tlie seeds do not become soft by boiling ; but are sometimes parched m a frying-pan in Egypt and s'vria w here thev are considered as convenient*food for travellers who make long journeys. In Spain, thev form an ingredient in the olla, a national dish. In Italy, and the south of France, they are sometimes roasted as a substitute for coffee. , , , ^ ^, ^ r „ u Some other small varieties of the pea are known and used in Arabia and India, but they are not ot much value, except to the poorest classes. SuBSECT. 2. — The Garden Bean (^Viciafaba, Linn.). 2447. The common or garden bean has been cultivated in Britain from time immemorial, ibut is supposed to have been introduced by the Romans, and to have come originally ■from Asia, whence it spread into Italy, Egypt, and Barbary. 2448. The seeds of the large variety of garden bean, called the Windsor bean, are pre- "fen-ed for the table. The Mazagan is one of the earliest and best flavoured, and the 1 Green China is late ; the seeds of the last remain green when ripe and dried. Other ^varieties, as the common horse bean, the tick bean, and the small Dutch bean, are cultivated lin the fields for fattening domestic animals, for which they are admirably adapted. In -some places, meal from beans is mixed with other meal for making coarse bread, and a -small quantity of them is generally mixed with new wheat when ground to flour; the iimillers pretend that soft wheat will not grind well without beans, and they generally c contrive that there shall be no deficiency in the necessary proportion. This practice ;is well known to bakers and dealers. Bean meal mixed yjjth water, and given to cows, nincreases the quantity of their milk. , 2449. The bean contains much more nutritious matter than most other vegetables. From the lanalysis by Sir H. Davy more than half its weight consists of principles fit for nutriment. IRipe beans contain, according to Einhoff, 84 per cent, of nutritive matter, of which 50 is '. pure farina, the rest chiefly gluten and mucilage; when young they are tender and diges- -. tible, but when old, they become tougher, and prove flatulent to some persons. They J are often eaten with bacon or pork by the coimtry people of England, with whom this is J a favourite and wholesome dish, the farina of the bean correcting the oily nature of •■ the bacon. The epidermis or skin becomes tough as the beans get old; and, containing a I bitter, should be removed. 2450. The kidney bean (Phaseolus, Linn.).— Two species of kidney beans are cultivated iin England ; the dwarf kidney, usually called the French bean; and another, somewhat llarger, called the scarlet runner, distinguished by the beauty of its flowers, and long culti- ivated for them before it was used as food. The first {Phaseolus vulgaris') is a native of I India ; and the second ( Phaseolus multijlorusyvras brought from South America in 1633, ! being first cultivated by Tradescant, the celebrated gardener, at Lambeth ; it is the 1 hardiest of the two. In England, the unripe pods of both, but particularly the French ! bean, are cooked whole in the green or unripe state. In France, where both kinds of 1 kidney beans are cultivated extensively in the fields, the seeds are suffered to ripen, and, under the name of haricot blancs, form part of a great variety of dishes, and are much •. esteemed as very nutritious food ; but the green pods used by us are not so. The scarlet '. runners are also with us dressed in the pods and have the advantage of being procurable r for a longer time than the French bean. They are also the sort most esteemed in France : for haricots, their seeds being more farinaceous than the dwarf. (See " Le bon Jardinier," 1835, p. 242.) The French bean is wholesome and nutritious in a fresh state, rarely dis- agreeing with any one for whom vegetables are proper, and may be readily preserved for ' winter use or sea voyages by salting in casks. For this purpose, the large-podded Dutch ' white runner is preferred. See Book X. " Preservation of Food." 24.51. Lentils are not used as the food of man in England, though they are on the I Continent, where they are cultivated for soups, and other culinary preparations ; but •■ they are of a larger kind than ours, which are considered as the best food for pigeons.