126 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. ■water, and covered with a thick cloth, to preserve the heat till the impurities are settled. From this tub, the clear melted wax flows into a vessel having the bottom full of small holes, through which it I'uns in streams upon a cylinder kept constantly revolving over water, into which it occasionally dips ; by this the wax is cooled, and at the same time drawn out into thin shreds or ribands, by the continual rotation of the cylinder which distributes them through the tub. The wax, thus granulated or flatted, is exposed to the air on linen cloths, stretched on large frames, about a foot or two above the ground ; in which situation it remains for several days and nights, exposed to the air and sun, being occasionally watered and turned ; by this process the yellow colour nearly disap- pears. In this half bleached state, it is heaped up in a solid mass, and remains for a month or six weeks : after which, it is remelted, ribanded, and bleached as before (in some cases several times), till it wholly loses its colour and smell. It is then again melted for the last time, and cast, with a ladle, upon a table covered over with little round cavities, into the form of discs or cakes of about five inches in diameter, in which it is usually sold. The moulds are first wetted with cold water, that the wax may be the more easily got out, and the cakes are laid out in the air for two days and two nights, to render them more transparent and dry. This operation of bleaching wax can be per- formed only in fine weather, as it depends chiefly on the action of the sun : and on account of this inconvenience, it has been a desideratum to discover some other mode of whitening this substance. Chlorine has been found to bleach it much more rapidly; but does not answer completely, the wax being rendered brittle. Steam has also been em- ployed for this purpose; and, by exposing wax to the atmosphere in frosty weather, the bleaching is very soon eflected. It is by exposing honey to the frost, that the Jews bleach it to such a degree of whiteness as they bring it to in Poland. 569. In tropical countries, on account of the heat, tallow candles cannot be xised, and therefore wax is much employed. A very simple method of bleaching this substance is made use of there : a vessel containing it is placed within another fuU of water kept boiling. '\\Tien the wax fuses, a process for converting it into thin flakes for bleaching is used, that at first sight might appear hazardous. The hands are first dipped into a tub of cold water placed near, and, while wet, plunged into the melted wax ; they are instantly and quickly drawn out covered with wax, the heat of which is scarcely at all felt. This wax is stripped off from the hands, and spread out on cloths in the sun, and watered to whiten. 570. The principal properties of wax are these: it is insoluble in water and in cold alcohol, but in boiling alcohol a very small portion is dissolved, the greater part of which is deposited on cooling. John, a celebrated chemist, found wax to consist of two substances, one soluble in boiling alcohol, and which he called cerin; the other insoluble, which he has named myricin ; the proportions of each being 75 of the former, and 25 of the latter. The first gives brittleness, the last unctuosity, being partly of the natui-e of a fixed oil. Cerin, when obtained from wax, will form margaric acid, a product of saponified fat; but wax itself wLU not make a soap with the alkaUes, a property which distinguishes it from fats, oils, and resins : neither does it contain clain nor steai ine, principles in the latter substances which we shall describe. Wax unites by the aid of heat with the fixed and volatile oils, and with resin: with difierent quantities of oil it constitutes the cerates of the apothecaries. 571. Bi/ chemical analysis 100 parts of wax are found to consist of carbon 80-4 ; oxygen 8-3; hydrogen 11-3. 572. Wax, it has already been stated, cannot be kindled unless it be previously reduced into vapour, which requires a heat of 300°; in this it resembles tallow and fat oils. Bleached wax burns with a very pure white light, without any offensive smell, and with much less smoke than tallow; and as it is less fusible than the latter substance, it burns well with a smaller wick. It yields in burning the same products as oil. Bleached wax melts at 155°; unbleached at 142°; while tallow melts at 92°; and spermaceti at 133°. ^\^lite wax is in some degree translucent, but not so much so as spermaceti. 573. White wax is sometimes adulterated with white lead, to increase its weight: this may be detected by melting the wax in water, when the lead will fall to the bottom of the vessel. Adulteration by mixing tallow or suet with it may be known by its greasiness, by a dull opaque white, and its wanting that transparency which pure white wax possesses ; as also by its disagreeable odour when melted, and being saponified by alkalies. Pofafoe starch is another ingredient which is sometimes fraudulently mixed with white wax. This may be detected by digesting the wax in oil of turpentine at a gentle heat, which dissolves the wax, leaving the starch. Spennaceti is also employed for adulteration ; this mixture hius less transparency than pure wax, and it melts more easily : the surface of the cake having likewise a mottled appearance. Wax is also adulterated with resin, which renders it brittle : pea meal and earths are likewise said to be employed. The presence of resin may be suspected when the fracture appears smooth and sliining instead of being granular, and it may be detected by putting small pieces into cold alcohol, which will dissolve the resin, and leave the wax untouched. Earth or pea meal may be discovered by remelting