222 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. supported at each end by an iron bracket screwed to the arcliitrave of the window, as in fq. B. 1037 The best method of causing the curtains to open i C Fig. 163. is the following. On each end of the brass curtain rod, a, b, ]/!(/. 1G3., C, are pulleys, one at a, and two at the other end b, c. A line, d, passes over the pulley b, then over that at a, and after going over the pulley c, returns down by //, to join d, by passing over the wheel in the little brass rack which is placed at e, and screwed on the arcliitrave, or otherwise, fixed. Each comer of the cur- tains where they meet, is at- tached to rings,/, g, which slide on the curtain rod. By con- sidering the motion of this line over the pulleys, it must be evident that when it is drawn down by pulling at h, the curtain attached below the rod to the ring g must move to- wards c, and, consequently, open; while at the same time the other curtain, fixed above the rod to the ring /, must also open by moving in a contrary direction. Each end of the curtam is fixed to the under side of the projecting lath, i, by screws. This curtain rod and pulleys may be made of bard wood instead of brass. It is to be observed, that each curtain must be large enough to lap over the other some inches in the centre, to exclude the draught. 1038. Besides the rod on which the curtain slides, there is generally a piece of the same viaterial with the curtain, called a valance, suspended before it, to conceal the rod, and likewise the soffit or underside of the architrave. This valance gives great richness and finish to the window: but when the rooms are low, they should not be deep, as they then hide much of the light: on the contrary, when the windows are very lofty, they are often useful in moderating the too great glare of light. Valances are contrived in a vast variety of modes, on which depends, in a great measure, the style of the window. Sometimes they are made in the form of festoons, and are then by upholsterers termed draperies: the festoon itself is called the swag, and the end that hangs down is tenned the tail, see fig. 1G4. These are frequently ornamented with fringes, tassels, and cords in various ways. This, which is the former French style, was introduced some years ago, as being much richer and more elegant than oui's : at present it is less used, and what are called piped valances are more generally Fig. 164. p„t j,p . tbese harbour less dust, from the folds being per- pendicular. Lately massive brass rods and large rings have been much in fashion : also rich gilt cornices over the valances. 1039. The materials for luindow curtains must necessarily vary with the apartments where they are to be used : but independent of the difference of expense, the choice of their qualities depends upon several considerations. In forming graceful drapery, the material is of great importance. It is impossible to form them well of stifltened materials, such as highly-glazed calicoes, which will not of themselves fall into graceful folds, and must consequently have a stiff appearance. Pliability of the material is essential: and for this purpose silk and fine cloth are considered the best substances. In drawing-rooms, plain coloured satin, or figured damasks, boar the first rank for richness. Lutestring and tabarets next, though they do not make so good drapery. Salisbui-y flannel, fine cloth, or cassimere, are. sometimes used. For eating rooms and libraries, a material of more substance is requisite than for drawing-rooms : in these, moreen is most usually employed. When chintzes are used, they should not be much glazed. 1040. One inconvenience in the elegant French draperies was the great skill and taste required to put them up well; and it is said that the cutting out of this part of uphol- sterers' work was ke])t as much as possible a secret, and seldom taught, even to their apprentices. A book, called the " Upholsterer's Accelerator," gives rules for this purpose. 1041. The manner of looping or fastening up Oie curtains in the da;/ is varied, by hanging role