764 Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. time, be soaked for puddings, like the tapioca ; or it might be used like the capada cake, ■which, in appearance, it so much resembles; that is, when well buttered and toasted, it will make an excellent breakfast appendage."— Quarterly Journal of Agriculture, vol. ii. p. 69. It is to be observed here that this potato bread is not fermented. 4358. Potatoes may he prepared to serve the purpose of bread, by simply boiling and cutting them into thin slices, which are dried thoroughly by a gentle and equal heat, for which purpose steam heat answers best. They may be close packed, and carried to any distance, or preserved for any length of time. M. Parmentier observes, that potatoes contain too much mucilage in proportion to their starch, which prevents them from being converted into good bread; but that if starch be collected from ten pounds of raw potatoes by grating them in cold water, and agitating them, and the starch thus produced be mixed with other ten pounds of boiled potatoes, and properly subjected to fermentation, like wheat flour, it will make good bread. 4359. It lias been justly stated, respecting viaking bread from potatoes, that though that may be effected by various processes, and more especially by the mixture of different sorts of flour, yet they answer the purpose of food equally well, plain boiled or roasted, without all the trouble of such conversion. 4360. Potato flour. — Sir G. Mackenzie, in the " Transactions of the Highland Society," observes that potato flour, boiled with milk and a little sugar, forms one of the most palatable, wholesome, and cheap dishes of which a labouring man can partake, and cannot be too sti'ongly recommended to cottagers, who ought always to convert a portion of their potato crop into flour, to be used when fresh potatoes cannot be got. In fact, it is potato starch that very nearly resembles arrow-root, though inferior, and at all events would be a very desirable thing to have in a cottager's family as a light nourishing food in case of sickness. 4361. The mamifacture of potato flour is carried on to a considerable extent in the neighbourhood of Paris, and the flour is sold at a price considerably higher than that of wheat, for the use of confectioners, and for bakers who prepare the finer sorts of bread, as it is remarkably white. The potatoes are washed and grated, and the flour or starch separated in the usual way of making potato starch ; it is dried on shelves in a room heated by a flue, and afterwards broken on a floor by passing a cast-iron roller over it; it is then passed through a bolting machine, and put up in sacks for sale. It is stated that 40,000 tons of potatoes are annually manufactured into flour within a circle of eight leagues around that city. — Gardener^s Magazine, vol. vi. 4362. A mill for grinding potatoes was invented by M. Beaume. This miU, _/?^. 623., consists of two graters, made of sheet iron, punched with holes ; an outer one, a, cylindrical, and an inner one, b, conical; the bars made by punching point towards each other, and grind the potatoes which are put into the hopper above, and fall between the two ^i=i=^-iK.^==^ graters, the inner grater being made to revolve by the ^ ^) ^ handle, c. When the potatoes are ground, they fall y^^^~^i\^^^^ through at the bottom into water contained in the large vessel, d e, in which the graters stand upon three feet. By this contrivance, which is so simple that it might be made by any country smith and carpenter, potatoes may be ground very expeditiously for starch, flour, or any other purpose. 4363. J new species of bread /las been made in Paris, composed of potatoes or pot.ito ilour, and a small qu.mtity of the gelatine procured from bones. This is said to be as nutritive as wheaten bread, and much less expensive. Biscuits have also been made upon the same plan. There can be no doubt that it will be nutri- tive and wholesome; but we would not hazard any opinion upon its comparative merits until it has been more tried. It might cer- tainly, among others, be occasionally a useful resource. 4364. Potatoes have been made to keep by converting them into a kind of vermicelli. The potatoes are boiled or steamed, and their pulp forced through a cullender fitted with a piston and cylinder; the pulp when it comes out is dried, and may be ground, or used as vermicelli. 4365. Bread made of barley-meal is considerably improved by the addition of wheat flour. It is always best to set the sponge with wheat-flour altogether, as barley-nieal does not ferment readily with yeast, and to add the meal when the dough is about to be made. Tills bread requires longer time to bake, and a greater heat than wheat-bread. It is much used in Yorkshire, and also in Devon, and by the miners in Cornwall. The following receipt is from the reports of the Board of Agriculture: — " Mix two bushels of wheat-flour, extracting only a very small quantity of the coarser sort of bran. Add one bushel and three quarters of barley-mcal. Make this into dough, with salt, yeast, and warm water, and bake for three hours and n half," Fig. 623.