HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. HAP. I. 120r SuBSECT. 5. — Cleanliness, and Bathing of Children. 7110. Cleanliness, beneficial and wholesome as a habit generalhj, is especially requisite in ; those who have charge of children, whose health and personal appearance are improved I or othei'wise according as they are kept clean in their persons and hahits. Bad food and (bad air may weaken children, and deprive them of their elasticity of body and vivacity I of spirit; hut, if their skins are kept clean and wholesome, they will escape that squalid ; appearance which the poor children exhibit, who are brought up imder the combined evils t of bad air, bad food, and uncleanliness. Inactive, perhaps vicious, mothers (foT- such are £ always wanting in cleanly and orderly habits), neglecting to wash daily their children, to . change their body linen, or keep their bedding as clean as, even in their poverty, might :be done, must not be surprised if their children are subject to disagreeable eruptions, or imore liable to the epidemic diseases of certain seasons of the year than the children of ■ women of better domestic habits. But of such extreme cases of wretchedness we trust t there is no need to speak here, except it be to point out that some of the great evils of ilife have a more aggravated character where cleanliness is wanting than where it exists. 7111. Of tepid water, rather than cold, we would advise the use in washing infants night rand morning; and especially, if such children be of thin and delicate habits, washing in iwarm water is not only pleasant but even nourishing. 7112. Warm water, therefore, we would not only employ at first in washing an infant, Ibut continue to use it till the second year of his life. Anj' sudden use of cold water (we imean during cold weather, for, in the summer, water need scarcely be artificially warmed) \we would carefully avoid, in order to prevent that distress at being washed into which ssome infants appear to be thrown whenever this needful business is in operation. When cchildren cry during their washing, it leads one to think they are suffering either from the aawkwardness of their nurses, or from the recollection of some former painful sensations aattending this business. We would always encourage nurses to wash young infants very (tenderly, in order to spare themselves the pain of hearing them cry, and the reflection ithat may be made upon their mode of handling and rubbing them. We know that much lidepends on the skill and carefulness of the nurse ; she can do much towards making ^washing a pleasant or a vexing daily circumstance to herself and charge. 711-3. The best way of washing an infant of six weeks old is to put it into a pan of tepid Twater, and, with a soft sponge slightly soaped, to gently rub the whole surface of the body sand limbs : three minutes is enough time to effect that, when the child should be taken oout, laid* on the knee of the nurse (who on such occasions should wear a soft flannel apron), aand rubbed gently, yet perfectly dry, with a soft linen towel. We must here insist as nmiich on the benefit of the friction of the body and limbs as on the warm water; and Twhile it is going on, a child is often as happy and quiet as if the gi-eatest pains were being ttaken to amuse it. 7114. In the morning washings the head, as well as the body and limbs, should be washed : idn the evening it would be scarcely prudent to wet the head, especially if the infant has nmuch hair. It takes too much time to dry it thoroughly, in an evening, when the child ias probably tired and wanting rest after the day's fatigue. To leave the hair insufficiently ddried might incur a risk of giving the infant cold in its eyes or ears. 7115. In drying a child friction should be less applied under the arms or in the bend of t;the knee than on the back, stomach, or limbs. Under the arms and behind the ears the Mowel should be gently pressed rather than rubbed: in those parts the skin is extremely tlthin and tender, and might be excoriated by much friction. 7116. A child, ujler it is three or four years old, may in all general cases be safely »washed, night and morning, in a tub of cold water, except it be in the severe part of the »winter, when a little warm water should be added to this bath. WTien these mornin"- land evening washings are employed, there can be little necessity for using the plunging'^ hbath for children—formerly the panacea for all their inftmtile maladies; for rickets •scrofulous diseases, cutaneous affections, and emaciation, from whatever cause arising. IHow the shock and alarm caused invariably by a plunge into cold water could effect so nmuch good it is difiicult to imagine, except it was productive of that cleanliness without which the skin cannot perform its duty to the rest of the body. 7117. Of cleanliness in the clothing of children little need be said, since all are con- mnccd of its importance to health. Yet as some persons are fastidiously nice, and others titoo poor to be so, no rules can be well laid down as general guides in this branch of ccleanliness. Mothers and nurses must regulate the use and change of linen accordinn- to ttheir own judgment, applied to their own respective situation and means. Cleanliness twiifficient for health is not extravagant in its requirements; and in the word health is iimplicd moderation in the use of all the privileges of life, 4 H