1008 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XV11. land. Indigo is a blae powder extracted from a species of plant which is cultivated for that purpose in tlie East and West Indies. The indigo plant contains a green fecula, which while in the green state is soluble in water; but it attracts oxygen greedily from the atmosphere, in consequence of which it assumes a blue colour, and then becomes insoluble. The use of indigo as a dye appears to have been long known in India, from whence it was first brought to Europe by the Dutch. It is an extremely valuable material for this art, as it has a strong aiBnity for wool, silk, cotton, and linen; and every kind of cloth may be dyed with it without the assistance of any mordant whatever, the colour thus induced being at the same time very permanent. There are two methods of apply- ing indigo in dyeing; one is in a state of solution in sulphuric acid, or sulphate of indigo. With this wool and silk are often dyed blue, but it can scarcely be applied to cotton and linen, because the affinity of these substances for it is not great enough to enable them readily to decompose the sulphate. The colour given by sulphate of indigo is exceedingly beautiful, and is known by the name of Saxon blue. One part of indigo is dissolved in four parts of concentrated sulphuric acid'; to the solution is added one part of dry car- bonate of potash, and then this is diluted with eight times its weight of water. The cloth must be boiled in a solution containing five parts of alum, and three of tartar, for every thirty-two parts of cloth. It is then thrown into a water bath, containing a greater or smaller portion of the diluted sulphate of indigo, according to the shade which the cloth is intended to receive. In this bath it must be boiled till it has acquired the desired colour. The alum and tartar do not act as mordants, but facilitate the decomposition of the sulphate of indigo. 5940. The other method of using indigo is to deprive it of oxygen, to which it owes its bine colour, and thus reduce it to the state of green fecula, and then to dissolve it in water by means of alkalis or alkaline earths, which in that state act upon it very readily. If therefore indigo, lime, and green sulphate of iron be mixed together in water, the indigo gradually loses its blue colour, becomes green, and is dissolved. This solution is used for dyeing cotton and linen. Another method is to mix the indigo in water, with certain vegetable substances, which readily undergo fermentation ; during which the indigo is deprived of its oxygen and dissolved by means of quicklime or alkalL This process is employed in dyeing wool and silk. 5941. In dyeing wool blue, woad and bran are used as vegetable ferments, and lime as the solvent of the green base of the indigo. Woad contains a colouring matter precisely similar to that of indigo, only in smaller quantity. When the cloth is taken out of the vat it is of a green colour; but it soon becomes blue by absorbing oxygen. • It is then carefully washed. 5942. Silk is dyed light blue by a ferment of six parts of indigo, six of potash, and one of madder. To dye it dark blue it must previously receive a groimd colour ; archil is used for this purpose. Cotton and linen are dyed blue by a solution of one part indigo, one part green sulphate of iron, and two parts of quicklime. SuBSECT. 6. — Dyeing yellow Colours. 5943. The principal colouring matters for dyeing yellow are weld, fustic, quercitron bark, and anatto. Weld (^Resiola luicola) is a plant that gi-ows commonly in this country. Fustic is the wood of a large tree that grows in the West Indies. Quercitron is a tree of North America, the bark of which contains colouring matter. Anatto is a kind of paste made from the berries of a plant that grows in America. Yellow colouring matters have too weak an affinity for cloth to produce permanent colours without the use of mordants. The mordant most usually employed for this purpose is alum, or acetate of alumina. Where very fine yellows are wanted, oxide of tin is used. The yellow dyed by fustic is more permanent, but not so beautiful as that given by weld or quercitron. A good drab colour is given by fustic when the mordant is oxide of iron. Weld and quercitron bark give nearly the same colour, and the latter is the cheapest. 5944. Wool may be dyed yellow as follows : —Boil it for an hour or more with about one-sixth its weight of alum ; then, without rinsing it, plunge it into a bath of warm water containing as much quercitron bark as equals the weight of alum employed as a mordant. The cloth is to be repeatedly turned in the boiling liquid till it has acquired the intended colour. To deepen the colour, a quantity of clean powdered chalk, equal to the hundredth part of the weight of the cloth, is to be stirred in, and the boiling to be continued for eight or ten minutes longer. For very bright golden yellows the oxide of tin must be used as a mordant. If a greenish yellow is wished for, some tartar may be added to the dye. The addition of a little cochineal will give an orange. 5945. Silk may be dyed yellow by weld or quercitron bark. The proportion should be from one to two parts of bark to twelve parts of silk, according to the shade wanted. The bark, tied up in a bag, should be put into the water cold, and the temperature then raised