895 Chap. I. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. second boiling, if the soup is poor, increases its strength by evaporating the excess of ■water. The fat, too, is more readily skimmed off when soup is cold than when hot; and the fat it is desirable to clear off completely, as it renders soup, if left in it, too rich. Flour dredged on the surface, uniting with the fat, enables the cook to remove a con- siderable part of it, if there be not time to allow it to cool. But if the soup is to be clear and transparent, there is a danger of thickening it, though slightly, by this use of flour. Dr. Kitchener recommends, in " The Cook's Oracle," another mode of removing the warm fat from soup — that of dipping a tamis sieve or a clean cloth in cold water, and then passing the soup through it. The cold temperature of the water in the cloth coagulates the fat which adheres to it, but allows the soup to pass through. After this process the soup must be warmed again over the fire before it is served. Hard or fast boding is, in making soups, to be carefully avoided. It hardens and con- tracts the fibres of the meat, so that it cannot yield its juices to the water. Gentle boiling or stewing has a contrary effect; the water gradually warming the meat has a tendency to relax its fibres, and, while penetrating into the meat, extracts from it and carries away with it the finest of its flavours ; and if the pot be closely covered, this flavour does not escape with the steam. All soup pots should be closely covered while on the fire ; the vapour, not being permitted to escape, becomes condensed, and returns to the soup, whereby less water is required to keep up the quantity of stock to be made, and consequently less meat to keep up its proper strength. Yet still all stock should be allowed to boil up in the first instance, because the ebullitions send up to the sui-face the impurities which there may be either in the water or on the ingredients, and which should be carefully scummed off. When these cease to appear on the surface, the boiling of the soup should be moderated, by bringing the kettle off from the strongest heat of the fire and placing it where it can only gently simmer. Clear soups are at this period more fashionable than those that are thickened. But whenever the thickened soups are preferred, it is only requisite to incorporate the proper thickening (see " Thickening "), with the clear stock. Seasoning of soups with spices should be sparingly done ; generally speaking, cayenne pepper and salt are the chief seasoning. When other spices are to be added, the follow- ing receipts will specify the kind and quantity to be employed. SuBSECT. 2. — Winter Soups. 5099. Clear brown stock. — Take beef; after washing it well and cracking the bones in : two or three places, add to it any trimmings of meat, poultry, and game, and cover the whole with cold water. Set the pot over a moderate fire, and keep stirring the meat from ■ the bottom as the w ater begins to warm. When it boils, remove the scum, and throw in : a tea-cupful of cold water, to make more scum rise. The excellence and clearness of the : soups and gravies made from this stock will depend upon its clearness. It must be as I limpid as water. When it has been skimmed completely, add one carrot, two turnips, a i head of celery, and one onion. There must be neither sweet herbs, garlic, nor spice : added. Stock must not have any flavour given to it, which might interfere with its ! general uses : in forming soups and sauces out of it, any required flavour may be then : added. Now cover the pot closclij, and set it by the fire to simmer gently for four or five I hours ; strain it through a hair sieve or tamis into a clean earthen pan, and set it in a ' very cool place. The meat thus stewed will be found still sapid and nutritious, capable < of being converted into a savoury dish ; or it may be potted, or again put into water and 1 boiled four or five hours more to yield a second stock. 5100. Second stock or coiisomm£ (see French Cooking"). This is a more concentrated i Stock than that described in the preceding receipt. Prepare it thus : Lay at the bottom of . a stew-pan slices of ham or bacon, over these a layer of sliced beef ; or, if to be drawn ' white, slices of veal instead of beef ; to these add some parsley and green onions, with t trimmings of poultry and game, and moisten the whole with a little of the first stock. 1 Put the stew-pan over a slow fire, care being necessary to keep the stock from burning ' or from acquiring a high colour. When warm, score the meat with a knife to let out the i gravy, and fill up the pan with first stock. Simmer the whole for three hours, keeping \ on the cover, except when it is requisite to take off the scum and fat. While hot, strain 1 It into a clean earthen pan, and set it in a cool place. By longer simmering this stock may be converted to glaze. 5101. Thickening for brown gravy soups. — Materials forthickening soups may be either fibread, bread-raspings, isinglass,polatoe.% peas, carrots, flour, or barley. Whichever is em- p ployed must he simmered gently with the soup until incorporated with it. The whole < should be afterwards passed through a sieve, to remove any lumps of the thickening iu- ggredient. A thickening which may be kept for a fortnight, or even more in cold weather, may be nmade by boiling half a pound of clarified butter with as much fine flour mixed in it as ^wiU make it of the consistency of a flour and water pasle. The boiling of tlicsc together