Chap. III. ON THE VARIOUS STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE. 15 Fig. 21. represents part of a mansion in the Tudor style, from an excellent work on the rsuhject, " Hunt's Tudor Architectiu-e." 41. Elizabethan Architecture. — When we consider what was the origin of the style of aarchitecture which has received this appeUation, and examine several mansions that still eexist in this country, which have had full justice done to them in late publications, it is ■IdilRcult to imagine what could have given rise to opinions in its favour so strongly ex- [pressed of late. It is quite evident that it was in great part imported from Italy, and ithat by the artists from thence, some of the monstrous absurdities of the Cinque Cento hhave been united to a few features of the early Tudor architecture. No doubt can exist of :its partial Italian origin, even had we no historical evidence, when we compare the various izgrotesque carvings and other ornaments, and perceive their exact correspondence with what were common in Italy at that time, where, as we have stated, good architectural ■sculpture survived general design. The great beauty of some of the parts in the oldest (Cinque Cento architecture is obvious, having been borrowed by the Italians from the an- itique, though in a great measure disguised by ridiculous conceits. With these are nmingled an infinity of faults arising from imagination run wild, and a misconception of CGreek and Roman feeling, though they were sanctioned by many celebrated artists of the (Italian school. It is impossible to look over a few considerable mansions raised here in illie time of Queen Elizabeth, and the two succeeding reigns, without recognising nume- rrous absurdities in the details, notwithstanding we may feel the conviction that even these nmust have come from the hands of skilful designers, such as this country could not boast nof possessing at that time among its natives ; a truth, however, which perhaps can only bbe felt by those who are familiar with the details of antique and modern architecture. Pig. 22. ^''"l* °f WoUaton Hall, is a characteristic specimen of what is termed hhe Ehzabethan style. This style, which begins to "be considered as an " old Eno-Hsh " manner, ha.s excited much interest of late, and has frequently been employed in the erec- tion of country seats. In the present day, a strong feeling seems to exist of respect for 'What IS merely ancent ; and some who are enthusiastic add, likewise, a fancied perccp- i ion of beauty m a style which to others exhibits much deformity. There is fremientlv io argiung where tastes dilfer materially, and where they depend chiefly upon feeling. One advantage wh.ch ha.s been derived from the present rage (shall we call it ?) for the Gothic nnd El.zabe han styles is, that both have been studied, and are much better understood nan tormerly ; and this, we must admit, is a certain step in the progress of architectural iciencc. besides, we are willing to grant that Klizabethan architecture has some legiti- -nate claims to attention. It has a certain interest from associations ; it has likewise some • ntnnsic merit and possesses some good p(,ints. It can be more easily adapted to our iresent habits than Gothic ; and we have some examples tolerably perfect in mansions of ■>ur ancestors which may be suilicicnt to enable lis to revive the style, should it be deserv- ng 01 revival. Hence, those who are solicitous to avoid what may be termed anti.niari in • c\o a ot meut. Although the grotesque ornaments with which the Elizabethan stvie is .sually accompanied cannot be reckoned very fine, (hey are at least cuHous and