Book IV. 170 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. some time before the gas ceases to come over, lest gases with feeble illuininatnig power should impoverish the contents of the gasometer. Upon the average, a pound of good coal aft'ords four cubic feet of gas, more or less, according to the force of the retort, and the manner of firing it." 753. The gas us it comes from the retort is not at first adapted for the purpose it is de- signed to answer, as it is easy to see from the above statement. It must be carefully freed from the tar and ammonia, and also from carbonic acid and sulphuretted hydrogen gases; the presence of which, especially the latter, would be highly injurious. Hence the purifi- cation of the gas demands the utmost vigilance on the part of those who superintend gas- works, and is the part of gas-making with which the public is cliiefly concerned: an ill-conducted gas-work affords not only an imperfect light, but emits offensive and delete- rious effluvia. 754. The process of purification is somewhat differently conducted in different works. In very large establishments, the gas is made to pass through a mixture of lime and water, which is kept in constant agitation. This lime water absorbs the ammonia, car- bonic acid, and sulphuretted hydrogen. In smaller works, purification is sometimes effected by forcing the gas through successive layers of fresh slaked lime. The purer the gas, the lighter it becomes ^ hence the specific gravity is considered as a test of its pqfity. 755. There is much difference in the quality of coal for affording gas. The most bitu- minous or caking coal is generally best: and the Newcastle coal is much employed; but the cannel coal yields the most gas. The sulphuretted hydrogen in coal gas, which is so injurious, proceeds from the sulphuret of iron, or iron pyrites, of which almost all coal contains a portion, more or less. The coke which remains in the retorts after the gas has been extracted, is employed as fuel for domestic and other purposes. 756. It is surprising to see with what facility and neatness gas-lights are now managed. The gas, being collected in a purified state in the reservoir or gasometer, is conveyed by tubes, which branch out into smaller ramifications, until they terminate at the places where the lights are wanted. The extremities of the branching tubes are furnished with burners, having small apertures out of which the gas issues with a velocity corresponding to its degree of pressure. Near the termination of each tube there is a stop-cock, upon turning which, when light is required, the gas instantly flows in an equable stream, and instantly inflames, on the approach of a lighted taper, into a brilliant, soft, and beautiful flame, requiring no trimming or snufiing to keep up equal brightness ; and the quantity of gas that issues, and, of com-se, the height of the flame, is regulated simply by turning the stop-cock: it may be made to give a considerable flame, or one so low and dim as scarcely to be perceived. 757. The gasometer, into which the gas is collected in the gas works, previously to its being sent out in pipes to be burned, is not merely a magazine for receiving it, and keep- ing it in store for use, but it is likewise necessary for communicating to the gas, in the act of burning, such a uniform pressure as may secure a steady unfiickering flame. It consists of a large cylindrical vessel, inverted, or with the open end downwards, in a cistern of water, the gas being sent through the water into it: a pipe leads from it; and the pressure applied to force the gas out is regulated by weights attached to the gaso- meter. 758. The construction of the burners, or the mode of burning the gas as it issues from the jets, has a great influence upon the quantity and quality of its light. Originally it was only a simple beak perforated; and these are still employed in butchers' and other shops of a similar kind, where the gas burns outside the house; but these generally give much smoke. A more elegant mode is to divide the flame into three or more small jets in fanciful forms, protected by glasses, which form splendid substitutes for oil lamps in streets, and some other places, ^jf. 148., a. In this way, when the gas is well puri- fied, there is scarcely any smoke, on the principle we explained when treating of Lamps, that several small flames produced a more perfect combustion than one thick flame. Another kind of burner is called a " bats' wing," b,fig. 148.; this is a thin sheet of flame issuing from a narrow aperture between two plates of metal: for the same reason this flame has little or no smoke. 759. But when the gas lights are burned in the interior of apart- ments and shops, where the smoke is to be entirely destroyed, the usual method is to make the gas issue through a circle of very small pinholes near each other, by which all the small flames unite together to forrn a circular flame, like an Argand lamp, and, at the same time, a column of air rises through the centre of this flame, as is seen mfig. 149., which represents the perspective view and section of one of these burners. The ornamented stage on this buraer supports FiiT. 148.