DYEING. 1005 Chap. XI. varnish is of a resinous nature, and is soluble in alkaline leys. Soap generally removes it; but as the matter separated is very fetid, putrid fermentation will take place and injure the silk, if it be not well rinsed in water. Steam is employed in France for this purpose ; and to give silk its complete splendid whiteness, it is necessary also to expose it to the fumes of burning sulphur, to destroy a substance of a yellowish colour, with which the European silk is impregnated. The silk intended to be white requires to be more completely scoured than that which is to be dyed. Sect. V. VARIOUS FACTS RESPECTING BLEACHING. 5921. }Vhen linen or calico are discoloured hy town washing, by age, or lying out of use, the best method of restoring the whiteness is by bleaching it in the open air, and expo- sure on the grass to the dews and winds. There may occur cases, however, where this may be difficult to accomplish, and where a quicker process may be desirable. Here the art of chemistry may assist, and the following directions have been given by an eminent practical chemist. The linen must first be laid for twelve hours in a ley, formed of one pound of soda to a gallon of boiling hot soft water ; it must then be boiled for half an hour in the same liquid. A mixture must now be made of chloride of lime with eight times its quantity of water, which must be well shaken in a stone jar for three days ; then allowed to settle, and being drawn off clear, the linen must be steeped in it for six and thirty hours, and then washed out in the ordinary manner. Tliis will remove all dis- colouration. 5922. To expedite the tvhitening of linen in ordinary cases, a little of the same solution of chloride of lime may be put into the water in which the clothes are steeped ; but it must be evident that so powerful an agent must be employed with great caution, other- wise it may injure the liuen. 5923. Steam has been employed in bleaching linen with great success in France. The process was brought from the Levant, and Chaptal first made it known to the public. In the old processes the close texture of linen resists the action of the heat of a common ley, and hence a long succession of leys and exposure on the grass and considerable time were necessary to penetrate the fibres of the linen from stratum to stratum, as we have already shown. In the process of bleaching by steam these difficulties are removed. The high temperature of the steam swells up the fibres of the cloth, and then the alkali used with it penetrates into the cloth and seizes on the colouring matter. But steam alone does not bleach. After the cloth has been some time exposed to its action, it is to be taken out and immersed in chloride of lime, and afterwards exposed a few days on the grass, by which the oxygen of the atmosphere rapidly carries off the colouring matter. If a yellow tint still remain, a second vapour bath and a second immersion in the chloride of lime will be sufficient to give the necessary whiteness. .'i924. The horse-chesnut has been employed in France and Switzerland for the purpose of bleaching yarn ; and it is recommended in the Mem. of tlie Soc. of Berne, vol. it p. 2., as capable of extensive use in whitening not only flax and hemp, but sill^ and wool. It contains an astringent saponaceous juice, which is obtained by peeling the nuts, and grinding or rasping them. They are then mixed with hot rain or running water, in the proportion of twenty nuts to ten or twelve quarts of water. Wove caps and stockings were milled in this water, and took the dip extremely well. It is supposed that if the meal of the chesnuts could be made into c.ikes or balls, it would answer the purpose of soap in washing .ind fulling. The sediment, after infusion, loses its bitter taste, and becomes good food for fowls mixed with bran. CHAP. XL DYEING. Sect. I. GENERAL AND HISTORICAL REMARKS. .•iQSS. The art of dyeing, though now seldom much practised in domestic economy, is too intimately connected with clothing and dress to be omitted. We shall, therefore, ex- plain its general principles, and give directions for what is likely to be attempted by individuals not professed dyers; at the same time, we may observe, that in London and other places where there are professed dyers, it is better to employ them for valuable articles of dress or furniture, as it is not worth while to risk spoiling them. Their charge depends partly upon the colour, some colours being more expensive than others. 5920. In all ayes brillianl colours have excited admiration; and even the uncultivated savage has evinced a passion for the beautiful and bright hues to be found in the feathers