852 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. middle recess contains the range with its boiler and oven ; in another recess is a hot plate ; and in the third a set of steamers, -with a hot closet beneath, also heated by- steam. 4813. Fig. 751. represents an oven and a hot closet made of cast-iron as a separate article of furniture, to be put up in any place -where there is access to a flue. The oven may, if required, be a roaster or roasting oven; and it is heated by its o-wn separate fire, -which, after circulating all g^^^M-j I round the oven, goes round the hot closet in the direction of the Ot"^ arro-ws. Such an apparatus may often be useful, in addition to others- of a similar kind. Proper places must be made for sweeping out the flues. This may be put into a recess in the brick wall, or project into the apartment with four or nine-inch brickwork on the sides, which will be proper to confine the heat. 4814. The following kitchen fire places are upon the principle of having a hot plate immediately over the fire. Fig. 752. is a kitchen fire-place, which we believe first appeared as the invention of the Marquis de Chabannes, about forty years ago. Here the fire in the range, instead of being open at top in the usual way, is covered by a plate of cast-iron, and the smoke is made to pass into a flue behind the back of the chimney. By this mode the soot is prevented from falling upon the various vessels placed on the hot plate ; and when the inside of the chimney is lined with white glazed tiles, it has a very neat and clean appearance. Immediately below the hot plate, and above the bars of the grate, there is a narrow door for throwing coals on the fire, and just over the fire there is a circular aperture, generally covered with an iron plate ; but when this cover is left off, the aper- Fig. 751. I N ( r 1 Fig. 752. turc serves to catise anything to boil quick when placed over it. On the right of the range is a boiler, and on the left an oven ; but the latter was only of the ordinary kind, and not furnished with a current of hot air like the Rumford joaster ; it could therefore only bake, but not roast. We cannot recommend this arrangement, and present it rather to show from what some of the later kitchen fire-places have been derived. Of late several kitchen fire-places have appeared, so constructed that the whole is connected together, requiring merely to be placed in the chimney, with very little settinn- by the bricklayer. We shall describe a few of them; but must observe, that though they have some advantage in point of neatness and compactness, yet the latter qualify is productive of this inconvenience, that when any part wears out, or is out of order, the whole machinery is probably slopped; and that the diflSculty of repairmg is always great, often from the locality even impracticable. On account of repairs, if is best to have the several parts of kitchen apparatus as much as possible independent of each other. We must likewise state, in justice to our readers, that in all their descriptions of hese kitchen fire-places, the ironmongers represent them as capable of doing much more than in practice they can perform -with that conyenience essential to the cook.