235 lllHAP. XIII. INVALID FURNITURE. idch as this was made. A trough of convenient length and breadth and a foot deep was ii.ied with metal to make it watertight; it was about half-filled with water, and over it aas thrown a sheet of the India rubber cloth, as large as would be a complete lining I it if empty. Of this sheet the edges, touched with varnish to prevent the water veeping round by capillary attraction, were afterwards secured in a water-tight manner II round to the upper border or top of the trough, shutting in the water as closely as if I had been in bottles; the only entrance left being through an opening at one comer, hhich coidd be perfectly closed. Upon this beautiful dry sheet a suitable mattress was idd, and constituted a bed ready to receive its pillow and bed clothes, and not distin- liiishable from a common bed but by its most surpassing softness or yielding. It may f i here recalled to mind that the human body is nearly of the specific gravity of water, r • of the weight of its bulk of water, and, therefore, as is known to swimmers, is just laspended or upheld in water without exertion, when the swimmer rests tranquilly on his lack with his face upwards. He then displaces water equal to his own body in weight ; -. well as in bulk, and is supported as the displaced water would have been. If his body be tfo and a half cubical feet in bulk (a common size) he wiU just displace two and a half cubical ■eet of water, equal in weight to his own body. If, however, instead of displacing the water iith his mere body, he choose to have something round or under him which is bulky iiith little weight, as the mattress of the bed above described, when his weight has >prced two cubical feet of that under the level of the water around, he will float with four- fifths of his body above the level, and will sink much less into his floating mattress, than f person sinks in an ordinary feather-bed. It thus appears that by choosing the thickness f ■ the mattress, and, if unusual positions are required, by having different thicknesses in iffFerent parts, or by placing a bulk of folded blanket or of pillow over or under the laattress in certain situations, any desired position of the body may be easily obtained. If lae water be about six inches deep, which in general will suffice, the person standing upon my part of the bed, or sitting with the knees raised, will cause the part of the mattress III which he rests gently to touch the bottom, because a narrow end of the body cannot bisplace water equal to the bulk of the whole, but then the person is standing or sitting ppon a soft sofa, and in standing or sitting, he natm'ally prefers the fixed to the floating iupport: on lying down, however, he as completely floats as if the Atlantic were under iiim. ' " This bed is warm, owing to water being nearly an absolute non-conductor of heat \iom above downwards, and owing to its allowing no passage of cold air from below. Vrom this last-mentioned fact, however, less of the perspiration, sensible and insensible, 1 ill be carried off by the air than in a common bed ; and imless the patient can rise, or ee lifted daily, to allow the bed to be aired like a common bed, there w^l be a necessity )nr using some such means as the following, to prevent the condensation of perspiration ni the water sheet below : — An oiled sUk laid over the mattress, or a blanket to be cccasionaUy changed, laid under it, or a set of flexible tubes of spiral wire laid under it, i ith their ends open to the atmosphere, to ensure a constant ventilation of the mattress ; r r similarly placed, and producing the same effect, a layer of cork cut into square pieces, ! ith spaces left between them as conduits of air. This bed is in itself as dry as a bed lan be, for the India rubber cloth (of which bottles can be made) is quite impermeable I > water. Then some persons may prefer having a double sheet of it, to prevent the pos- libility of accident. Unlike any other bed that ever was contrived, it allows the patient, then capable of only feeble efforts, to change his position, almost like a person swimming, nnd so, to take a degree of exercise, affording the kind of relief which, in constrained "ositions, is obtained by occasionally stretching, or which an invalid seeks by driving out II a soft-springed carriage." Dr. Amott then states that it has been introduced with iticcess into several hospitals. He observes : " If used without the mattress, it becomes a Trarm or a cold bath, not allowing the body, however, to touch the water; and in India it liiight be made a cool bed for persons sick or sound, during the heats which there pre- •■ent sleep and endanger health. Before reflection, a person might suppose a resemblance • etween it and an air bed or pillow, calling this a water bed or pillow; but the principles t f the two are perfectly distinct or opposite. An air pillow supports, by the tension of the mrface, which encloses the air, and is therefore like a hammock or the tight sacking v-nder the straw mattress of a common bed, and really is a hard pillow ; but in the hydro- ' tatic bed there is no tense surface, or wet at all : the patient is floating upon the water, !!n which a loose sheet is lying, merely to keep the mattress dry, and every point of his iody is supported by the water immediately beneath it. To recall the difterence here escribed, and which is of great importance, the bed is better described by the appellation ff hydrostatic bed than of water bed." The envelopes made at present to contain water for beds are liable to a defect, that the lanvass which is always in contact with the water decays in a short time, generally in a • ear, and sometimes in six months, and the whole water-tight case then requiring to be ' enewed, this not only creates a considerable expense, but the renewal cannot be effected