BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 502 degree of decomposition during the drying by fire ; for if malt was dried in the sun as it was formerly, the liquor made from it would be nearly colourless. ' When malt is of the best quality, and well prepared, the grains should be large, clean, plump, well filled with flour, and not shrivelled ; the skin thin. The grains should break easily when bitten asunder, and have a floury kernel that should give a trace like chalk : its taste should be sweet and mellow, and leave no impression of rawness, but should feci soft and mealy between the teeth, whereas raw grain is tough, and not easily broken : if the malt be hard and flinty, it is bad: the colour should be clear, and there should be no disagreeable smell. Malt is specifically lighter than water, and will swim, but unmalted grain sinks. To try if the malt be properly made, put a handful of the unground malt into a basin of cold water : let every grain be wetted all over, and, if good, they will swim on their sides : such grains as swim endways, or sink, are not properly malted. If only .5 grains in 100 sink, the malt may be considered sufficiently good. A bushel of malt will weigh about 40 lbs., and the dealer should guarantee its weighing so much; what weighs less is not good: a sack will weigh about 160 lbs.; the value is therefore determined by its weight. 3163. Grinding the malt—Malt is ground previously to its being used for brewing. It is found best, in general, not to grind it to meal, but only so that each grain is broken or cut into three or four pieces. If ground to a fine powder, it is apt to set into a paste that the water cannot penetrate ; and except every particle of malt be exposed to its action, the whole of the soluble part will not be extracted. In large breweries, the malt may be ground finer, because the whole mash is agitated by machinery driven by a steam engine, and thus the mashing is performed quicker and more completely ; but in brewing on a smaller scale, where the agitation cannot be so perfect, it is proper to grind the malt coarser, that the water may be allowed to act for a longer time, and the wort drain away through the interstices. The usual method of grinding is by a common flour mill with two circular stones placed one above the other, but at a greater distance than for flour; but this grinds very une- qually, some grains being reduced to powder, while others have the husks scarcely broken. Steel mills that cut the malt with teeth, in the manner of coffee mills, are much used, particularly in private families, and they answer rather better: they have the advantage of being always ready, whereas a corn mill may be found only at a distance ; and private mills form a security against any unfair dealing with the malt. Their price varies from three to ten guineas, but, except great care be used, they are apt to grind too fine. Some use a pair of revolving rollers made of case-hardened iron for crushing, instead of grinding the malt, a method which some consider as superior, though it is apt to compress the flour, and prevent the action of the water. Whatever method most completely opens the husk, without reducing the kernel to flour, and allows the water to extract most completely the soluble part of the malt, will be best adapted for brewing. The malt should not be kept above a day or two after it is ground, as it is then apt to heat and ferment, and, con- sequently, to clot into hard lumps, that not only require to be broken, but communicate a bad flavour: but it is thought usefid to keep it a day or two in a cool place, secluded from the light, to mellow, which, they say, renders the soluble part more e^y extracted. SuBSECT. 2.—Hops. 3164. Tliis essential ingredient in malt liquors consists of the floral leaves of a well-known perennial plant, commonly called the hop vine, humuhis lupulus of botanists. The hop is dioecious, that is, the male and female flowers grow upon different plants, and are of a different form; the catkins, Jig. 548., are picked and dried for the purpose of brewing. It is a native of Britain and most parts of Europe, and is seen occasionally flowering in our hedges in June, and ripen- ing in September ; notwithstanding which, its use in beer in England is not of great antiquity ; when first employed here, it was introduced from the Netherlands. There is only one species of this plant, but there are several varie- ties of it, the qualities of which depend much upon the soil. The southern counties of England, particularly Kent, are celebrated for the mildness of their hops ; those in the neighbourhood of Canterbury and Farnham are reckoned of the best quality for porter, uniting an agree- able flavour with strength. Nottingham hops grown on clay, called north clai/ hops, are strong, but are thought to have a rather rank flavour; they are chiefly fit for liquor that is to be long kept. In Worcestershire and Cheshire a mild hop is grown very fit for ale. They are a very uncertain article of growth, frequently failing in bad seasons, a circumstance that has a material effect on the Ijrewing of that year.