Rook XIII. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 894 claws, and crack the shell in each joint, but do not shatter the meat; split the tail down the middle ; set the body upright in the dish, and place around it the claws and tail. 5084. Crayfish are boiled in the same manner. 508.5. Broilrd lobster—When boiled, split the tail and cliine; crack tlie claws, pepper and salt tliem • take thobody outof the shell, and clear the head of the p.irt called the lady. Replace the body within the shell, and then, with the claws and tail, put them on the gridiron; while broiling, baste thera with butter, and serve them witli melted butter in a tureen. 5()8fi. Lfibster curry. — Put tlie meat of two lobsters Into a stew-pan with a blade of mace, four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and lour of cream : rub together very smoothly two tea-spoonfuls of curry powder, one of flour, and one ounce of butter ; add tlicse with some salt to the lobster, and simmer the wliule together for an hour ; stir gently into the gravy the juice of half a lemon, and serve it. 5087. Lobster salad. —'fila.V.a a sal.id of two or three well-washed lettuces, cutting away the stalks, and shredding the leaves moderately. Slice some boiled red bect-root, and one good-sized cucumber ; wash, and cut in long shreds, four anchovies ; .ndd to these some tarragon and chervil, chopped fine. Make a salad mixture of the yolk of an egg (boiled for ten minutes, thrown into cold water, and rubbed with a wooden spoon tlirough a sieve) a table-spoonful of cream, one of sweet Florence oil, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little salt, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put this mixture into the salad bowl, and lay the lettuce upon it (not mixed with it) in the centre, and the meat of the lobster and the other ingredients around it, ac- cording to fancy ; and to ornament the wliole, rub through a sieve some of the red spawn over it. 5088. Shrimps. — Shrimps in the first instance are always boiled for ten minutes in salt and water, into which they are not put until it is boiling. 5089. Steii'cd shrimps or prawns. — When the shrimps are boiled, remove the shells and put them into a meat gravy with a small piece of butter, a tea-spoonful of Hour, and a seasoning of nutmeg, salt, and pepper. In this simmer them for three or lour minutes, and serve them with small bread sippets. If a white dish be prepared, cream must be used instead of gravy. 5090. To boil crahs.—Boil them the same way as lobsters, which see. When cold, crack and empty the shell, in the largest of which mix some vinegar, salt, white pepper, and cayenne ; put the meat to it and mix altogether. Some add a very little sweet oil; but crab, being of itself rich, scarcely requires it. 5091. Hot crab The great shell must be left whole for the meat to be served in it. Chop and fry some parsley, mushrooms or truffles, and a small portion of young onion ; mix these with the meat and fill the shell with tliem ; add a little good gravy, some lemon-juice ; sliake over the surface some flour ; brown it with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. Glaze it, and serve it very hot. 5092. Slewed oy.ilers.—Take a dozen of oysters ; strain the liquor from them, remove the beards, and boil them and liquor together, to form the stock for the stew. The liquor must then be strained away from the beards, and being thickened with cream, flour, and butter, it must be again made hot over the fire, the cook stirring it gently the whole of the time. The oysters must then be put into the gravy, and gently warmed (not boiled) for ten minutes. This dish is often served with veal coUops. 5093. Scolloped oysters.— Take from a dozeti oysters thehearAs, and boil them in the liquor: which, when done, strain, and reserve to moisten with it the bread-crimibs on which layers of the oysters are placed, either in an earthen dish called a scollop, or in a real scollop-shell. In laying the fish, season it with white pepper and salt; fill the shells high, and in the form of cones, and brown them with a salamander or in a Dutch oven. As soon as they are lightly browned, it may be inferred that the oysters are sufficiently cooked. There is scarcely any fish that requires so little cooking as the oyster. 5094. Fried oysters. — Grate some bread and season it with white pepper; dip the oysters in the crumbs, and have a light batter prepared in which to fry them. These form a pretty garnish to white fish. 5095. Oyster loaves. — Warm oysters in their own liquor, and in which some cream is mixed, thickened with flour and butter, and seasoned with nutmeg and salt. Inclose the oysters in rolls made by pastrycooks and which are formed of a very light and short crust. Sect. IV. SOUPS. SunSECT. 1. — General Observations. 5096. Meat soups and gravies. — Have one basis, formed by boiling together meat and water ; the soluble parts of the former uniting with the water, and simmered down to a certain strength, is termed " stock." When this is obtained, it is ready to be employed as the basis of any meat soup or gravy ; and the soup receives its name according to the vegetables employed, or of the ingredients used in seasoning it. The proportion of meat to water for stock, from which the richest soups and gravies are to be made, is tu-o pounds of meat to a quart of water. For more ordinary soups, one pound to a quart; for weak broths and meat-teas, given to invalids, a quarter of a pound of meat to half a pint of water. The strength and flavour of the stock may be increased and improved by the addition of all trimmings of meat, poultry and game, such as the necks, feet, gizzards, &c. B097 ,9oMrs of meat should as much as possible be m.ide while the meat hfrrsb ; in meat Ii-ng killed the flbreVbecomc st^^lTened, and the juices of the llesh .Irie.l up ; hence the greater difflcuUv '"8''"^^^^^^ In country places, in which markets occur rare.y more than once ni the week, fresli killed meat cannot always be obtained In •such ca'se, a cook should frv meat intended for soups as soon as shecan conveniently do so after it is brought into the house ; mid this should be done especially in warm weather. 5098. When it is possible, .loups should be made the day before they are wanted. — A