1103 Chap. L HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. -'lie being weaned, of scarcely greater thickness than the mother's milk. The great dif- ii ulty in observing this important rule is with nm-ses, who, regarding children as half- starved if fed on food sufficiently thin, often counteract any wishes or commands mothers may express on this subject. They pretend children will not eat unless ihnj reel the food on their lips, and they threaten the parents with all the ills of starvation, if he children are to be so fed. Inexperienced and alarmed, many a young mother has \ ielded the point, and left the digestive powers of her child under the management of an ignorant and obstinate woman, until it has been needful to call in medical advice, and to ihreaten dismissal of the nurse upon her future disobedience to orders laid down. 7063. The proper ivarmth of food is also of great consequence to a fed infant ; if it be riven constantly hotter than the mother's milk, it is very likely to bring on that painful lisease the thrush, a disease more common and fatal to the fed than to the suckled child, wing, it is supposed, to the variation and uncertainty in the temperature of the food _nven to the dry nursed. 7064. Ill dnj nursing, from the birth, even more attention must be given to the above suggestions in regard to the use of the bottle, and to the degree of consistency and warmth of the food given to infants not suckled, in as much as the difficulty and risk are frreater in rearing the dry-nursed child to health and vigour, than the suckled infant. Its food should, in all respects, be made as similar as possible to the nourishment appointed for it by nature. In analysing the human milk, it is found to contain some properties rather different from the milk of cows ; yet it is probable that no substitute for the mother's milk can be found in all respects better than that of cow's milk; at first diluted, but in the end given as it comes fresh from the cow. Like the parent's milk, the pro- perties of cow's milk are every day the same, or nearly so, while every other food is liable to many variations, arising from the uncertainty attending the preparation of it. 7065. A dry nursed child brought up on cow's milk may require a change of diet rather sooner than would otherwise be thought of On attaining its fourth or fifth month, one meal each day of more consistency may be given in moderate quantity by the spoon. At six months old, a light bread or flour pudding, consisting of bread crumbs (or one tea-spoonful of flour), the yolk of one egg, of milk as much as will fill a small basin ; these beaten well together and boiled in a small basin for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, and when turned out of the basin sweetened with a little sugar, will generally be found palatable to a child of this age, and a safe gradation from its earliest food, to one of more solidity. At nine or ten months old, meat panadas may be given; a few months subsequently, meat, merely minced, with mashed potatoes, or well boiled cauliflower or brocoli. No one meal should consist of many things; meat and vegetables without pudding, or pudding without meat, we would advise to be given on alternate days, till the child is a year and half old. 7066. The nutriment of childi-en, after the completion of their first year and a half, it will be necessary to increase in solidity; and, if their appetite seems to demand it, in quantity also. Their teeth begin now to aid them in masticating food, their limbs become firmer, and carry their bodily exertions often to a great extent; it is scarcely calculable the degree of exercise which healthy children voluntarily give themselves, but ■which stimulates the digestive organs, enabling them to receive and act upon more solid nutriment than heretofore given them. Having previously had animal food three or four times a week, children may, in the second year of their lives, safely eat it once every day, meats being chosen for them that are tender and nutritious. Jioast beef, mutton either boiled, roasted, or broiled ; chickens; some kinds of fish ; well-boiled vegetables, such as brocoli, turnips, potatoes (the latter are best for them when mashed with hot milk and a little salt) ; simple compounds of egg and milk ; fruits baked or boiled ; bread, well made and well baked, with small portions of butter; these, with milk for breakfast and supper, with water as beverage, are the chief articles of wholesome food for children as long as they continue under nursery management. 7067. The species of food ive would vol give them consists of salted meats (beef, pork, or bacon), of rich stews, ragouts, and soups, of fried fish, of pastry and confectionary gener- ally, of cheese ; and of beverage, tea, coS'ee, beer, and wine. Of the two last-mentioned, beer and wine, we may remark that in cases of delicate health they may be advan- tageously allowed ; but they should always be given under medical direction, for the stimulus of fermented or spirituous liquids is not in every case of debility beneficial, sometimes the reverse; neither ought children to be allowed to drink much at a time of any liquid, however mild and innocent it may be. Too much liquid has a tendency to create flatulency, and to distend the bowels. It has been said that parents accustoming their children to drink water only, bestow a fortune upon them of the value of which they will be sensible all the days of their life. 7068. The habits <f children at their meals should be attended to. We would let them use the spoon or fork early. It is keeping them too childish to feed them after they have strength enough to hold the spoon. At first the nurse or mother should superintend the