4-44 Book VII. ON FOOD. A pound niul B half of potato-starch was kept slmmerhig at a boiling heat in a mixture of six pints of distillL'd water and a quarter of nn ounce (by weiBht) of sulphuric acid. The mixture was afterwards stirred, aud IVesli water occasionally added to supply the loss by evaporation. After Ihirly-four hours an ounce oi' powdered charcoal was added, and the boiling resumed for two iiours The acid was tlien carefully saturated witii lime, and the boilini; continued Ibr iialf an hour, when tlie liquor was strained through calico. The insoluble residue, alter luiving been wasiied and dried, consisted of charcoal and sulphate of lime. The filtered liquor was evaporated to the consistence of syrup, and, beiilg set aside, became in eiglit days a crys- tallised m.-iss resembling brown Bupir and treacle. The sugar weighed a pound and a quarter. One pound of it fermented in the usual way, aud allbrded on distillation fourteen draclims of proof spirit. This sugar from starch is not exactly the same as that made from tlie sugar-cane; it is less sweet, requiring two and a half times the quantity of cane-sugar to sweeten to the same degree, and it is not quite so soluble. It agrees in its properties with the sugar of grapes, and, like it, is capable of being converted into spirit by fermentation ; it is, in fact, the very substance that affords the spirit in malt liquors. How the conversion of starch into sugar is effected is not very well understood, and we wish to avoid entering into theoretical views not yet quite established; but, as has been observed above, it is supposed that the mutual attractions of the elementary principles of vegetable bodies being very slight, they are made to change their situations by very small causes, and a very minute difference in their arrangement occasions a sensible difference of properties, —a fact of which chemistry furnishes many examples. Few substances, indeed, appear at first more unlike than starch and sugar; the former is very insoluble and insipid, the latter very soluble and sapid. Since, as we have stated, the elementary principles, hydrogen and oxygen, exist in the proportion necessary to form water in starch, sugar, gum, and ligneous or woody fibre, these substances may be considered as so many com- pounds of the elements of water with carbon, the remaining element; and since, in the processes just described, the weight of the sugar obtained exceeds that of the starch employed by ten per cent., it has been supposed that the sugar is a chemical combination of starch with water. 2318. Nature produces the change from starch to sugar during the germination of seeds in the earth. When, under the proper circumstances of heat and moisture germination has commenced, it will be found that the farina, or white internal kernel of the seed, has in a great measure disappeared, and that its place is supplied by a substance having a saccharine taste. It is this peculiar sugary substance that constitutes the food of the embryo plant, and it is for the purpose of supplying this food that nature has effected the change. 2319. Man has imitated this process in the malting of barley for the purpose of pro- ducing fermented liquor. When we treat of " Brewing and Distilling" this subject will be entered into more fully ; at present it is merely hinted at, to bring all the points into the same view : and we shall then see also why all the substances possessing starch may also produce alcohol or spirit; first, by the conversion of the starch into sugar, and then the latter into spirit. 2320. But starch or fecula cannot be always separated, in the manner described above, from all the plants in which it exists. Sometimes it is intimately united to mucilage and oil, as in the case of the almond, and many other kernel seeds. In such plants all these principles become ditfused in the water in an equal degi-ee on pressure, and the fecula will not be deposited by mere subsidence; nor can it in this case be obtained pure in any way under these circumstances. 2321. Starch is an extremely nutritive material, and constitutes one of the chief ingre- dients in almost all the most valuable vegetables used as food by man. In many instances it is not separated from the vegetables before being employed as aliment, but in other cases processes are employed to extract it distinct from the other ingredients, some of which are nutritious, and others injurious. 2322. By this means various species of food have been produced in foreign countries and are in use amongst us, while few persons have an idea of their origin, or their relation to common starch. Of this kind are arrow root, which is the starch extracted from the tubers of a plant that grows in the East and AVest Indies, the Maranla arundinacca ; sago, a starch procured from the pith of several species of palms ; and tapioca, made from the starch of Jatropha Maniliot, a South American plant. Tous les mois is a substance of this class lately brought here from St. Kitt's, and said to be the starch of the Canna coccinea. All these boil to a jelly like starch, and are light and nutritive. They will be described more particularly in Chap. III. Book IX., " On Bread." 2323. From the nutritious substances which have been just mentioned, all of which consist of mere starch, we may perceive how very important is this principle in the vegetable kingdom : but this importance will be much increased when it is pointed out, as it will be when we come to the article " Bread," that it is chiefly the starch they contain which renders all the kinds of corn and leguminous seeds so valuable as food. In these, indeed, it is combined with the other proximate principles, such as gluten, sugar, oil, &c.; but it is the starch mu(;h more than all the rest which constitutes the nutritioi.s part of corn and other vegetables.