that althougli the heating rays, as well as the light of the sun, can readily pass through glass, as is evident from green-houses and ordinary windows, yet the calorific rays from the fire are almost entirely stopped by glass. On this principle a piece of window or plate-glass can form a fire screen by inclosing it in a frame ; and this is both agreeable and convenient, since the fire may be seen through it. The only inconvenience is its liability to be broken. Sect. XL SCULPTURE, PAINTINGS, ETC. 1154. There are few houses where some other objects are not collected to decorate the apartments besides the mere furniture. Pictures, statues, has reliefs, vases, porcelain, mi- nerals, flowers, even toys of various kinds, are introduced ; and their selection distinguishes, in some measure, the taste and judgment of the possessors. The desire for being sur- rounded by objects of interest is both natural and useful, provided it be kept within due bounds. It has been remarked that uncivilised nations, and almost the poorest among civilised people, have more or less of this taste for decoration, and to it we owe many of the most valuable arts. When the inhabitant of the humble cottage in any country is seen to adorn his dwelling with works of art, even of the lowest kind, we may be sure that he possesses the gei-ms of some good feeling capable of being cultivated. Wliile the wealthy procure genuine pictures and sculpture of the best kind, those in middling circumstances may easily obtain works of great merit at a much smaller expense. 1155. Wlien sculpture, instead of being insulated, is attached to a surface, it is termed alto-relievo, and basso-relievo; or alto-relief, and bas-relief. The first is when the figures project from the wall at least half their thickness ; and when the projection is less, it is bas-relief. This kind of sculpture is frequently employed in friezes, chimney pieces, and other parts near to the eye ; but it seldom has a good effect, or is lost and thrown away, when placed too high, as may be seen in several of our public buildings erected by archi- tects of reputation. A considerable objection to the use of much sculpture in the deco- ration of rooms is the dust wliich it collects, and which cannot be frequently cleared away without injuring the carving. Painting on this account has some advantages over reliefs. The ancients have left us many exquisite specimens of bas-reliefs, both in marble and terra cotta; and many of great merit have also been executed by modem sculptors. 1156. Plaster casts of fine sculpture are scarcely inferior, in some of the most valuable qualities, to the original marble, and may be rendered durable by easy processes: they may be hardened, painted, varnished, or bronzed. 1157. Much modern sculpture in alabaster is brought from Florence, consisting chiefly of small figures and vases, which must be kept under glass ; but the greater part of it is of very ordinary, if not inferior workmanship, and is chiefly striking for the beauty of the material, or the elaborate pierced carving. Abundance of small figures in terra cotta, or other materials, arc produced by some of our own sculptors too little known; some of these have infinitely more merit as works of art, and deserve places in our best apartments.