BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. (>92 perty. Preparations of this kind are extremely niimerofis, and most of them are well known ; nevertheless, we eonsider it proper in a work of this kind to collect them, or at least to speak of such as are most useful. 3942. Toast and water—liread, highly roasted before the fire, so as to become deep brown, but not burned black, IS in a sMght degree soluble in water, and will communicate to it a faint tinge. The toast sliouid lie put into the water ; if the water be poured on the toast, it breaks it, and makes the water thick ; this ra.iy be drunk as soon as it lias cooled sufficiently : it will not keep, acquiring a disagreeable taste after a day. Hard biscuit browned by the lire to a coffee colour has been recommended by Sir Anthony Carlisle lor this purpose. A small piece of lemon-peel is sometimes added. 3943. Barley water. —This is a very ancient beverage, and formed the principal " ptisan " of the old phy- sicians. Hijipoerates recommended it as preferable to every other aliment in acute disease, and it still retains Its character. The husk of barley contains an acrid resin, and to get quit of this, and render the starch of the grain accessible to water, the external cuticle is taken off, and the kernel, when rounded in a mill, is called pearl barley. I'earl barley, therefore, consists only of the starch of the grain, with a minute portion of mu- cilage and sugar. Hy slow boiling, a considerable part of it is dissolved, and according to the quantity used, the water is thickened in a small degree with the viscid paste. To prepare barley water, wash a handful uf barley, either the common or the pearl barley, and simmer it gently in three pints of water till it is reduced to a quart, which may take an hour. It may be flavoured with a little lemon-juice and sugar, or with lemon- peel, or cinnamon. It must be used fresh, as it will not keep above a day. To make the barley water of a better colour, it may lirst be boiled for a few minutes in water that m.iy be thrown away. Seme prefer, instead of simmering the barley, to make merely an infusion, by pouring boiling water upon it as in making tea, and then letting it stand till it is cold. Figs, liquorice, or raisins, make an addition that may be agreeable to some : or currant jelly may be added as a cooling drink. 3944. Enu sucr6. —W.it.'r with sufficient sugar dissolved in it to make it sweet is a beverage much used by French ladic^s, and is considered as very wholesome and refreshing. It is usual for men and women in France to take some of this just before bed time. 394.5. Lait Sucre—Milk well boiled with sugar, and flavoured with lemon : taken cold. 3940. Cheese or milk whey is an excellent drink in the summer season ; so is butler-viilk, especially in the spring time when the cows have good fresh herbage. In northern countries, buttermilk is kept till it becomes sour and separates into a curd and whey ; this whey has a considerable quantity of acidity, but is neverthe- less exceedingly wholesome, and forms a refreshing beverage. It is a common drink of labourers in tlie north. A pleasant acidulous whey may be readily procured, by adding to a glassful of milk a little solution of citric acid, or lemon juice, which will curdle the milk. Care must be taken not to add too much acid ; an experi- ment or two will readily show the quantity necessary to effect the purpose. 3947. Milk^ and milk and water, are invaluable drinks. 3948. Lemonade. — This favourite beverage is easily made, and extremely refreshing. To make a quart, take two lemons, or more, according to taste; pare off thinly a little of the rind, or rub lumps of sugar upon them. Squeeze out the juice of the fruit and mix it >utli two ounces of whitesugar, including what has been rubbed upon the lemons, add the water boiling hot, and when sufficiently cool, strain the liquor. This may be diluted with water to the strength required. If lemons are not in season, syrup of lemons may be used, or the crystallised citric acid and sugar, adding a few drops of the essence of lemon. Like all drinks of this kind, it is rendered more refreshing by being iced ; it may be kept bottled. 3949. Orangeat, or orange sherbet, is made nearly as above, only using oranges instead of lemons ; some prefer it to lemonade. 3950. Sherbet is a favourite eastern beverage, universally used among wealthy Mohammedans, to whom the Koran forbids the use of wine. It consists of water, the juice of lemon, orange, or other fruits, with sugar, flavoured further with honey, spices, and even perfumes. Its agreeable acidity blended with sweetness ren- ders it well calculated for assuaging thirst in a warm climate. The poorer classes, who cannot afford to have it so rich, drink water prepared by a little sugar and fruit juice. In India this is carried about in goats' skins for sale. 3951. The juice of the apple and pear, it has been suggested by Mr. Knight, might be used with great ad- vantage for preparing a beverage. He has frequently, he says, reduced it by boiling to the consistence of a weak jelly ; and that in this state it has remained several years without the slightest apparent change, though it has been intentionally exposed to much variation of temperature. A large quantity of the inspissated juice would, he observes, occupy but a very small space ; and the addition of a few pounds of it to a hogshead of water would probably, at any time, form a liquor a good deal similar to cyder or perry. It might also, he thinks, be used to supply the place of rob of lemons and oranges ; and might be obtained at a much lower price. It would be useful in long voyages, and this hint might be advantageously used in domestic economy for obtaining an agreeable beverage. 3952. Slimmer cooling beverage Bruise any fruit you like, as cherries, currant.^, strawberries, raspberries. &c., add water and sugar to your taste, and strain it; it should be kept in a cool place : or dissolve fruit jelly or rob in boiling water and let it cool. 3953. Capitlairc is so called from being prepared from a species of fern called Capillus Veneris, or maiden hair, a native of Britain: but almost any oilier fern may be substituted for it The decoction is considered as fiectoral and slightly astringent ; it is thought to be useful in allaying the ti.'kling of a cough. The true capil- aire made of a syrup of this, flavoured with orange-flower water, has generally been brought from France ; and a syrup of the Canada sort, made with majile sugar, is sometimes received from America. A pleas-int summer beverage is made by adding a spoonful of capill.iire to a tumbler of water. 39.')4. // liquid called capillaire is also made thus. Beat up sixteen pounds of white sugar, and six eggs, in three quarts of water ; boil it to a syrup, and skim it well; add the eighth p.irt of a pint of oraiige-flowor water, or rose water. Tliis is useful to sweeten liqueurs, or to make a pleasant summer draught with water and lemon juice. 39,'j5. Orgeat This is m.ide of syrup of almonds, mixed with water that has boiled and become cold, in the quantity most agreeable to the palate; a table-spoonful of it in a tumbler of water makes an excellent drink. The syrup of almonds maj; be made thus: — Blancli .ind pound in a marble mortar one pound of .lordan almonds and one ounce of bitter almonds ; add a spoonful or two of orange-flower water. Mix a pint of rose water witli another of spring wiiter, add this to the almonds, and pass the » hole through a lawn sieve. Then boil three pints of clarifled syrup, and. when it boils, put in the almonds, and let them boil one minute: when cold, put it into bottles, and cork it for use. 'I'o make it expeditiously for Immediate use, pound the almonds as above ; mix them with a quart of water, one of milk, and one ol clarified syrup or capillaire ; pass through a sieve. 39.'i6. Vinegar and water It is commonly known that cold water is dangerous when tised by persons heated with Ifibour or by any severe exercise; ami yet it is necessary to supply the waste and exhaustion of perspiration In some way or other. When spirits or w ine arc adde<l in small quantities to water, it may be used, oven if cold, with little danger; but severe labour or exercise excites a degree of fever, .ind that fever is increased by spirits or fermented liquor of any kind. On this account Dr. Hush, in a puhliration. recom- mended that labourers in the fields, particularly at harvest time, should allay their thirst by water containing a small quantity of vinegar, about a tea-spoonful (o half a pint of water, which would have the desired effect without stimulating or increasing the heat of the body ; and he slates that those labourers who h.ive used this beverage have found themselves more refreshed, and less exhausted .it night, th.nn when they drank water with spirits. This is not a modern practice merely ; for the Konians used vinegar to mix with