STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. 1132 two inches and a quarter apart. Each rack should have a ring at bottom for securing the horse's head : when tied to the spars he is apt to bend or break them. Some have made the spars turn round on a pivot to facilitate the coming out of the hay. The racks are also sometimes placed in the corner of the stall, forming the quarter of a circle, which gives more room. The usual mode of filling the hay-rack is from the hay- loft over the stable, as it is generally in towns by means of an aperture in the ceiling just over the rack,_^^. 890. These apertures have been objected to; it has been said that' the foul vapours from the stable rise up them and contaminate the hay, and that the dust and seed of the hay fall down upon the head, mane, and ears of the horse, and, in conse- quence, it is recommended to abolish these apertures and to keep the hay in another manner. But the rising of the foul air can be prevented by close trap-doors, and the dust may be avoided by a canvas sheet, to be used whenever the hay is put down. Any other mode of carrying in the hay would occasion much trouble, and in case of having perpendicular racks, as in fg. 891, no dust could occur. In towns, where space is so valuable, no place could be found for the hay- Fig.m. loft so convenient as over the stable. 6721 . The manger is the trough in which the horse's corn is put. It is usually made of wood and fixed, see fig. 889., but is sometimes also of cast-iron and move- able, as in fig. 892. : these have the advantage of being not only more durable, but of being likewise sweeter and cleaner, particularly where boiled or moist food is used, in which case wood imbibes the moisture and gives out a musty smell. Wooden mangers are made as long as the stall is wide, but iron mangers need not be so long; about three feet is sufficient length ; they are generally nine or ten inches deep, but a foot would be better; and they should be twelve inches wide at the top, and nine inches at the bottom, inside. If the manger is too small, the horse is apt to scatter and throw his food out in turning it over. There should be no sharp corners to it for the horse to hurt himself against. Wooden mangers would be better if made moveable, so that they might be taken and scoured occasionally ; but they should be securely fixed by draw-bolts. The top of the manger ought to stand from three feet to three feet six inches from the ground ; if too high, the horse cannot eat comfortably, and if too low, he is apt to get his foot into it. It would be well to put sloping boards from the front edge of the manger to the wall, to prevent the horse cutting his knees against the corners. In the case where the rack is perpen- dicular and there is a partition detached from the wall, as in fig. 890., the manger might be a drawer to slide back into the empty space. A small sheet-iron japanned drawer by the side of this might be made to serve as a water trough, to move out on a pivot into the corner of the manger ; but this must be made to lift out to be cleaned, or some other contrivance may be adopted for holding water in cases where it is desirable that the horse should always have it in his stall. There are mostly two rings placed, one on each side of the manger or stall, for the reins of the horse's halter to run through, and a logger is fixed to the ends of these, sufiicient to poise them perpendicularly, but not so heavy as to tire the horse or to hinder him from eating. 6722. Besides the daily cleaning out of the stable it should be thoroughly purified once or twice a year, by all the wood-work being scrubbed with soap and water, and the walls and ceiling whitewashed or limewhited ; but opportunities for this should be taken when the horses are out for some time. 6723. The hay-hft in towns is generally over the stable, chiefly for the convenience of supplying the racks easily ; in the country it is often in another situation, ^^^lere there is no pla-stered ceiling to the stable, the joints of the flooring boards should be ploughed and tongued, and otherwise made quite tight, to prevent any noxious cfiBuvia coming through from the stable. If the apertures for supplying the hay-racks in the stable have also close-fitting covers, this situation of the hay-loft above the stable may not be objection- able ; but in the country, where the hay can be cut from the stack every twenty-foiir hours, a separate hay-loft is scarcely necessary. When there is one, it should contam