Book VIIL 584 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. The beer now remaining still, the impurities will subside, and if the brewing has been properly performed, nothing more is necessary, and the ale or beer will become clear in about fourteen days without any other attention. Some persons recommend putting a handful of hops into each cask with the beer, before it is bunged down ; and it is said that they will communicate their fine aromatic flavour more than those that are boiled with the wort. There is, however, some danger by this practice that the hops may stop up the cock, except some precaution is taken to prevent it. The best method probably is to suspend them in some sort of netting. 3294. It is 7iot advisable to bung up the casks before thisslow fermentation is quite finished: for if this be done, the beer is liable to fret and turn sour. So long as there is a head of yeast in the bung hole, there is no danger of the beer becoming flat, since the carbonic acid gas in the cask will effectually keep out the common air. To ascertain when this second fermentation is quite over, and the cask ready to be bunged up, clear away with the finger all the yeast inside the cask round the bung hole, as far as can be reached, and then lay a pjece of thick brown paper over the bung hole, and press it down, so that it adheres by means of the clammy yeast. Look at this in a few days, and if the paper is burst, or is wet, it is a proof that some air has yet to be disengaged, and that the fermentation is not quite over. When this does not happen, the beer is ready. As to the length of time the ale or beer is to be kept before it is to be used, that must depend, in a great measure, upon taste. 3295. Mode of proceeding with the second mash, or the brewing qfthe table beer In describing the opera- tion of mashing, we stated, that as soon as the water of the first heating in the copper was poured upon the first mash, more water was put to boil for the second mash to malce the table beer. The quantity of this water will of course depend upon that of the beer to be brewed. The heat of the water is made about 5^ greater than that of the first mash, in order to extract as much soluble matter as possible, the risk of setting being now in a great measure over. This mash must be stirred with the oars for about half an hour, and it should stand an hour and a half. A sample of the wort should then be taken ; the wort is then suffered to run out till it cease, or nearly so. As soon as the copper is empty again (the ale wort that was in it having been put into the coolers) the small beer wort is to be put into the copper with the hops from which the ale wort has been drained ; and some persons here add a little fresh hops: this liquor is now to be boiled for an hour. In the meantime the mash tub should have been cleared of the grains, and the basket may be placed on some sticks laid across the mash tub; the small beer wort from the copper should be poured into it through the basket. When sufficiently cool, it must be set to ferment, in the same manner as ale, but using a larger proportion of yeast: tliis should be in the proportion of three half pints to thirty-six gallons of small beer. The rest of the management of the table beer is the same as that of the ale, only it should be put into the casks a little warm, otherwise it will not work in them as it ought to do. The table beer will not ferment so strongly as the ale, nor so long, and may be put into the cask much sooner — in general the next day alter it is brewed, and it will be ready to tap in a few days. 3296. Min ing the worts of different mashes If one kind of malt liquor only be wanted, the dilTerent mashes, whether two or three, are mixed together, and the strength of the mixture determines that of the malt liquor. If more than one degree of strength be required, then the produce of the several mashes are kept separate for each sort, or they may be mixed so as to proportion the strengths in any manner that may he desired. The usual practice in private families is to make the ale from the first mash, and the small beer from the second ; or perhaps tlie first and second mashes are made into ale, and the third into small beer; or the first into strong ale, the second into table ale, and the third into small beer. In large breweries, the mixing of worts to make up a desired strengtli is a matter of nice calculation, in which the saccbarometer is of essential use, 3297. If there were as many coppers as mashes, the wort from each mash could be boiled in a separate copper as soon as it was made, and kept at the proper temperature till they could be mixed; but when there is only one copper, as is usually the case in the small way, the produce of the first mash is obliged to be kept for some time in the underback, or some other vessel, because the copper is employed in heating water for the second mash ; and although this vessel is covered up and kept as warm as possible, yet there is a risk of the sweet wort remaining so long as to lose much of its heat, and, in consequence, of its beginning to change by a slight kind of acetification, which will be very injurious to the beer; and it is then said to be blinlnd. Two coppers would obviously prevent this accident. Blinking is also produced sometimes by the m.ish being suffered to remain so long as to cool too much before it is drawn off, or by the heat not being sufficiently high at first. To regulate .ill this exactly, a thermometer is extremely useful. To keep up the heat in the under- back, where the wort remains for some time, a worm with steam might be made to pass through it; the con- densation of the steam supplying heat to the wort. A common tea-kettle, properly fitted up, would furnish steam sufficient for this purpose. 3298. On taking a review of the processes just described, and the multiplicity of circum- stances to be attended to, it is easy to see that brewing is an operation that requires con- siderable skill and dexterity to manage it with complete success. The goodness of the beer will depend upon the quality of the malt and hops; on the degree of heat and length of time employed in mashing j on the mode of boiling the wort; on the proper manage- ment of the fermentation; on the precaution used in tunning, &c.; in short, every part of the process requires nice attention to the proper manner of performing it to prevent failure. Many of the difficulties can only be overcome completely by practice and per- sonal experience; but these, as we have observed, may be considerably diminished by attention to rules drawn from the experience of others, and by studying the theoretical principles of the art: the knowledge thus acquired constitutes what is denoted by the term skill. 3299 Professional brewers always keep a Journal, in which they enter regularly every circumstance respecU Ing each brewing- such as the quantities, temperature of the water in each mash, and fermentation, all changes observed, &c. This is a very useful practice, since it not only prevents many errors, but serves as a record of the various parts of the process. Such a book would be equally useful m domestic brewing, and is much better than trusting all this to memory. Each brewing may be considered as a set of experiments, which, when registered, assist raatcrhiUy when the process is to he performed again. The young brewer »hould anxiously watch each operation, carefully mark lis success or failure, and should apply to Ihe various