1110 CARRIAGES, Book XXIII. figure of an ellipsis. They are placed on the axle-trees at right angles, and the weight of the hody bears upon the upper spring. Examples of these may be seen in all the four-wheeled carriages without perches. They are less easy than the C springs with braces; but, through the great improvement of roads and pavements, they are not much inferior in this respect. They are easier than the double elbow. 6622. When under springs are used in under-spring carriages, mentioned above, the most usual one is a curved spring like the lower part of the elliptical; but, instead of ■ another curved spring being placed above this, there is Fig. 853. a curved iron, Jig. 853., simply called a dumb stay, be- ^^^^^^^'^''^^J cause in this case so much elasticity is not required. Q 6623. Combinations of several of the above springs are employed in various carriages, and receive different ap- pellations by coach-makers. Thus when four elliptic springs are used in a four-wheeled carriage, the whole is termed the nut-cracker springs. Telegraph springs are a combination of eight springs when used in four-wheeled carriages. Two of these are placed longi- tudinally on the framework of the body, and two transverse ones are suspended from it by shackles; on the latter the weight rests, and thus the body is placed two removes from the concussion. The Stanhope is suspended on four of these springs: from the small space they occupy they are constantly used in stage-coaches; but they are not very easy without a great weight on them. 6624. The springs of carriages are made of a peculiar kind of coarse steel prepared expressly, and having little carbon, that they may be less brittle. Forging coach-springs is a peculiar branch of business. Though springs are kept painted, yet they are liable to decay by the rain forcing its way between the plates, rusting the inner surfaces. Mr. Adams recommends tinning each plate before putting them together. Mr. Adams likewise observes, that a difficulty arises in adjusting the elasticity of springs to the weight of the carriage ; for if springs are calculated for a certain weight, say six persons, and only three enter the carriage, the springs will be foimd too hard, and with more weight the carriage would be easier. Even when properly adjusted, light carriages are not so easy to ride in as heavy ones, because the concussion on a rough road takes more effect on a light carriage, in causing it to rebound, than it does on a heavy one. CHAP. m. DESCBIPTION OF THE FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES WITH PERCHES. The following representations of carriages are all drawn accurately to the same scale, which is placed below the wood-cut of the coach. 6625. The coach, fig. 854., is the principal carriage in use. It is properly a four-wheeled carriage with two seats within, and capable of holding four or six persons. There arc several varieties, but the town coach is the most complete. Of this the carriage has been already described. The body is now always suspended by braces and C sprmgs, the braces