1207 SICKNESS IN THE NURSERY. I t HAP. II. sened, hinders the rising of the tooth. If the useful part of the operation be the division tof this little sac, then it is evident that the lancet should always cut deep enough to grate iiupon the tooth. It may be that the lancing is beneficial by taking blood from the inflamed aand painful gum. The statement which some have made, that if the divided gum unite, lit makes a firmer barrier than before against the tooth, appears to be unfounded ; cica- itrices are always more yielding than original tissues. In addition to the symptoms (enumerated above, and which are always present, there are some others less common, aand which may therefore be referred to unnatural dentition. These are, swellings of the eglands in the neck, swelling of the hands and feet, feverishness, a difficulty in passing tthe water, &c. 7148. The diseases commonly referred to dentition as their cause, are 1. Eruptions of ttheskin; 2. Emaciation; 3. Vomiting; 4. Diarrhoea; 5. Cough (inflammation of lungs); 66. Croup ; 7. Convulsions; 8. Water on the brain ; 9. Ophthalmia. Some of these ocomplaints have been already noticed, as far as is consistent with our plan. One remark innay be made about the diarrhcea attending dentition. It is an observation of Hippocrates tthat those children cut teeth fastest whose body is lax: common opinion has fully con- fifirmed this remark ; it has also gone stiil further, and considered every diarrhoea during ddentition as of use ; and some writers direct such diarrhoea not to be arrested. Without eentering into this question, one may safely say, that if it arise from this cause, parents need nnot be alarmed about a diarrhoea, even if it be very considerable. 7149. Hashes attending dentition.—One common rash is the red gum already mentioned. Wery often the emption has little watery heads, or resembles flea-bites, but without the rred point seen in the centre of these latter. Another rash is one which sometimes leads parents to dread the accession of measles oor scarlatina. It is a red blush, most observable on the extremities, but attended with llittle fever. Measles is preceded by running from nose, and a peculiar cough, and ^scarlatina by sore throat, and running from the eyes ; and the absence of these symptoms ian the rash now mentioned generally points out its real nature. Another rash, presenting dull red patches, chiefly on the legs, with here and there ssmall swellings, is also sometimes seen. This is said to be more common when the eye iteeth are cutting. There are several other rashes, but less common than these, and which therefore need mot be adverted to. 7150. The emaciation attending dentition is a consequence, usually, not immediately oof the dentition, but of some of its products, as diarrhoea, fever, &c. 7151. The other disorders, as convulsions, croup, &c., will be noticed afterwards. 7152. In all these cases, it is of course difficult at once to put down the disorder to ddentition, but as this may be the cause, it is proper in every instance to lance the gums well; and we may conclude this short account of the sequences of dentition by mentioning aa remark made long ago by Dr. Underwood, that to effect permanent good it is often nnecessary to do this, not once merely, but many times, and on successive days ; and with tkhis remark the experience of most practical men will lead them to accord. StTBSECT. 2. — Early Symptoms of severe Afflictions most commotdy seen in CJiildren. 7153. The first disease we shall notice is convulsions or Jits. A child is said to be in a fifit when there are involuntary spasmodic movements of the muscles; the hands are cdenched, the thumbs drawn in across the palms; the arms are bent and drawn to the iside, or across the body ; the feet and legs are drawn up ; the muscles of the face distort tithe mouth, about which there may be a little froth ; the eyes roU upwards and inwards, land the face becomes purple from a difficulty of breathing. After a short time the mnuscles relax their spasm, the eyes shut, the mouth resumes its customary appearance, sand the child breathes easily, and seems quite recovered, or perhaps a little drowsy and bheavy. We presume that no parent would ever dream of treating such a disease herself; medical •aid should always be promptly obtained. Very little assistance can be given in the fit iitself; the head should be raised, every thing removed from the neck, and, if the tongue bbe protruded and bitten, bits of cork must be inserted between the teeth, so as to prevent tthem from completely meeting. Throwing a little cold water in the face has appeared Ito some persons to be useful. The warm bath should be used, both in the fit and in the iiintervals. Although we shall not enter upon the treatment of convulsions, we shall make a few rremarks on some of the more common causes. Dentition certainly produces fits, and llancing the gums repeatedly often removes them. Too much food, and improper food •also, is a usual cause. After eating very largely, children have been known to die sud- (Jdenly in convulsions. Again, too thick food in children who are brought up by hand '■without doubt produces convulsions : even after weaning too much bread or rusk seems 4 H 4