Chap. VIII. ELASTIC FABRICS AND WATERPROOF CLOTH. 997 Skct. IV. GOLD LACE. 5873. Gold lace is formed of threads, made by covering yellow silk thread with flattened gold wire ; this thread is coTered, being afterwards woven into lace or cloth. The gold wire is seldom made entirely of gold, hut is in fact only silver wire gilt, and the manufac- ture of it exhibits a strilting instance of the ductility of gold, and the extreme thinness to which it can be reduced. To form it, a cylindrical ingot of silver is superficially gilt, and is afterwards drawn into wire by passing it through a succession of holes in a steel plate, each one smaller than the other. The fine wire so produced is then flattened by a flatting mill. n ■ The gold with which the ingot is covered at first is not above the or ^ of an inch, and sometimes not the of an inch, being thin gold leaf burnished on to the silver. "When the ingot has passed through the several holes required to form it into fine wire. Dr. Halley calculated that the thickness of the gold was only the ^sisso P^r* 9^ an inch. But by flatting, its surface is much increased, and consequently the gold is still thinner. Reaumur's calculation made its thickness still less; only part of an inch, and yet the gilding is entire ; the best microscope does not show the least break. The flattened gold wire so formed is twisted round a silk thread by means of a curious complex machine, which causes several of the wires to go round the silk at once, so that each wire shall just touch another, the whole forming a complete covering of gold. GHAP. VUI. ELASTIC FABRICS AND WATERPROOF CLOTH. 5874. Elastic fabrics being required for various purposes, such as braces, bandages, &c., several methods have been contrived to produce the quality of elasticity. Certain sub- stances, as coils and springs of steel wire, are of themselves more or less elastic ; and modes of weaving have been tried which have produced elasticity to a considerable degree, as may be observed in the stocking manufacture, and particularly the ribbed stockings. 5875. The nwst perfectly elastic fabrics are madf by means of India rubber or caout- chouc. The very great elasticity of this substance, with its other properties, suggested the idea that if it could be liquefied, and formed into threads possessing the same elasticity as at first, it would become a valuable material for elastic cloth. But, as we have stated in the section on " Materials for Fumiture," no means could be devised for some time for effecting this purpose. At length a method was discovered, by a Major in the Austrian service of producing threads from caoutchouc, and weaving them into cloth, without dis- solving it. This material is softened by hot water, and pressed into thin lamina;, which are cut by a machine into vei'y thin strips. These strips are then extended till they attain the required degree of slenderness ; and they are kept stretched for some days in a cold apartment, till they lose their elasticity and become fixed. The threads are then put into a braiding machine, and covered with another thread of cotton, silk, or worsted, which is wound round it entirely, and afterwards they are woven into cloth. When this cloth is finished it is laid upon a table, and a hot smoothing-iron is passed over it, which restores the elasticity to the caoutchouc. It is necessary, by stretching the threads, to deprive them of their elasticity; for if they were woven in their elastic state, the cloth ■would become puckered. When elastic bands, garters, or braces are made, the warp only is made of India rubber. These fabrics were first made at Vienna,'whence the inventor removed to Paris, and erected a great factory for them at St. Denys. They are now also made in this country. Of the same material are made elastic belts, elastic stock- ings for varicose veins, knee-caps for wealc knees, bands for sprained ankles or wrists, and other surgical bandages. Waterproof Cloth. .5876. The inconveniencies arising, from our clothes being wetted by the rain are so universally felt, that numerous attempts have been made to render cloth impervious to water, or, as it is called, " waterproof." Some fabrics are made of such materials, or of such a Jexture, that they have this desirable quality, either entirely or to a considerable degree, without any preparation. Skins of most kinds are impermeable to wet, and the real camlets, and even good Scotch plaids, keep out the wet for a long time; but none