MATERIALS USED IN WASHING. (Chap. II. 1077 foe picked out. They should he lixiviated with twelve times theii' weight of hoiling M.vater, and the ley thus formed is to be evaporated in iron pans ; from which the term rpotash is derived. 6-134. Amongst other methods of procuring potash, one deserves to be noticed, discovered by Mr. Birch, a ileacher at IM.mcliester. He evaporated a large quantity of dunghill water to the consistence of treacle, and hen burnt the residuum in an oven, and from this he procured potash, which he employed in the operation )f bucking. H rom a quantity of muck-water equal to twenty-four pipes full, the quantity of ashes made was I cwt. 1 qr. 12 lbs. valued at two guineas per cwt. In the manufacture of the potash in this manner, there - vas a profit of Ibl. is. allowing for all the expenses. This alkali appears to have been formed by ihe process .i>f putrefaction. 6435. Pearlash is a much purer state of the alkali, prepared from the crude potash. Wov this purpose, the potash is broken down into moderately small piecei, and is spread ipon the floor of a reverberatory furnace, where it is kept hot, but not melted, for an lour or two, stirring it occasionally with an iron rake, until all the carbonaceous and :olouring particles are burnt out; and there remains behind a dry, porous and consider- ibly caustic salt, extremely deliquescent," which from its blueish-white colour is called Karlash. 6436. Both potash and pearlash differ considerably in their strength, as in the quantity bf alkali which they contain—a circumstance of considerable importance to the manu- facturer, who finds great difficulty, in consequence, of fixing accurately the value of any i juantity. An analysis of any one piece would not give that of the whole parcel, as the jroportion of the impurities is quite irregular. Mr. Kirwan gives an analysis of Dantzic foearlash which may serve at least to give a general idea. Pure potash, 60'3 ; carbonic aacid, 22-4 ; water, 7"2 ; sulphate of potash, 87 ; muriate of potash, 7 ; earth, 0.7 ; = lOO'O. Sect. XL SODA. 6437. Soda was formerly called the mineral ov fossil alkali, because it was dug out of he earth. The use of soda was familiarly known to the ancients, and abundance of it in 31 native state, called natron, was found in Egypt. It is now known to occur likewise in ■ he vegetable kingdom, and the base of it, called sodium, is one of the components of common salt: indeed, a great part of the soda that is employed in this country is obtained -Vom the latter source. While the vegetables that grow in common soil yield potash, hose which flourish in salt water, or on the sea shore, or wherever the soil is impregnated .vith salt, yield soda by incineration, this alkali having existed in the plants when living, n consequence of their situation. There are two substances manufactured from which vegetable soda is procured, barilla aand help. 6438. Barilla is the richest in soda, and comes chiefly from Alicant in Spain, from plants !)f the genera Salsola and Salicornia, which are cultivated for that purpose very extensively -n the hucrta of Murcia, and other places on the eastern coasts of Spain. The plants are iown in light low soils, that are embanked on the side next the sea, and furnished with riood gates, by which the salt water may be admitted occasionally. In autumn, when the iceds are ripe, the crop is cut down and dried; the seeds are rubbed out, and the rest of .he plant is burnt in very simple furnaces, the temperature of which is just high enouo-h ;o cause the ashes to enter into a state of semi-fusion, and to concrete into compact ;ellular masses. The barilla is of a greyish-blue or brownish colour, covered over with I saline efflorescence, when exposed for some time to the air ; it is exceedingly hard, and )f a pungent alkaline taste. Barilla is also manufactured in Sicily and Tenerifi"e, but it iis inferior to that of Alicant and Carthagena. The best barilla sometimes contains 20 pper cent, of soda. 6439. Kelp is much more impure than barilla, containing only from two and a half to bve per cent, of soda. It is made from what is vulgarly called sea-weed, chiefly of those leeafy marine plants called fuci, which grow on the rocks in the sea, between the high land low water mark. These plants are cut down in the summer season, dried, and burnt inn shallow pits made in the ground, and, when care is used, in furnaces for the purpose irhe combustion is kept up by throwing on a little at a time of the dried plants, and when u certain quantity has been consumed, the ashes are stirred about with an iron ralce till ithe whole, in partly a liquid or pasty state, concretes together. When cool, the mass is broken up, and constitutes the kelp. Well-made kelp is of a blueish-grey colour, is rather ■•sellular, and contains a good deal of charcoal from the half consumed plants: its taste is Wkaline and salt. It is rather tough, but not so hard as barilla. Kelp is much employed "Where soda is wanted in making glass and soap, also in bleaching, &c. Some years back H great deal of kelp was manufactured on the British shores, and formed a considerable source of wealth to the proprietors, but at present its price has very much decreased from »;he great superiority of barilla, and the mode of obtaining soda from salt 6440. The soda is extruded from barilla or help by dissolving them with hoiling water 3 3