iiAP. Vr. HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. 41 Fig. 37. i' w ith bricks laid flat, which is termed brick-nogging. In other cases, the bricks are omitted. ■ K'n the partitions are required to be very strong to carry weights, they are trussed or oned by braces, fig. 37. Partitions in houses of an i lerior kind are formed only of wainscotting, which ; as the great inconvenience that the voice is easily ; eard through it. The same thing happens in some 'lases where the quarter partitions are left hollow : I nd to prevent sound, as well as to check the rapid pread of fire, if they are not brick-nogged, it is best ' > treat them nearly in the same way as we described 1 the pugging of floors, only one layer of laths and 1 lortar may be suiEcient. 147. Roof. The design of the roof comes from the office of the architect, but its jxecution rests with the carpenter. When the domestic edifices of this kingdom were constructed chiefly of timber, about wwo hundred years ago, the carpenters were not so well skilled in the art of cutting out and placing their beams with a view to economy and strength, as those of the present liay : and the walls were often unnecessarily loaded with a profusion of this material in iihe floors and roofs. The science of carpentry is now better understood, and strength is made to depend upon judicious framing, combined with lightness, using as little as possible ibf so perishable and expensive a material as wood. Proportioning the scantlings or thick- laesses of the timber just to the strength required, demands the exercise of considerable ikkill and experience: an inch more or less in the scantlings materially affects the cost, land the strength of the edifice : but we need scarcely observe that any excess is best on Ithe side of safety. These scantlings are now regulated by the Building Act. In many countries where there is little rain, as in Egypt and Asia Minor, the roofs are jmade quite flat: but in Europe, in general, they slope from one side to the other, or form a iraised central ridge between the side walls. The angle in which the two opposite sides of thhe roof are thus raised is technically called the pitch of the roof. In the northern parts ubf Europe the pitch has always been more acute, and consequently the height of the roof imore considerable than was the custom among the Greeks and Romans, heavy falls of ssnow demanding a high pitch. From this cause, the roofs of ancient buildings among us nwere higher than they have been made since our taste has been influenced by Italian and CGrecian architecture. At present it is thought to look best to make the pitch very low ; bbut if this is carried to excess, it is difiicult to prevent the wet from insinuating itself Hbetween the joints of the slates and tiles, except they are filled with cement. 148. Construction of the roof. If the rafters a 6, in A fig. 38., abutted simply against the "walls without auy tie beam, c, it is evident that any weight Llaid upon them would have a tendency to cause them to open land thrust out the walls, which, in ordinary buildings, have nnot sufficient strength to resist; it becomes necessary, there- ffbre, to prevent this eft'ect by having a beam c connecting lithe ends of the rafters, which then can, by their thrust, 'Only stretch this beam lilce a cord ; and the latter is, on that accoimt, called the tie beam. lln that case, the whole triangle seems like one piece, and the weight of the roof acts only [perpendicularly on the walls without any lateral thrust. IThis is the first simple principle in forming a trussed roof. ^When the building is very small, and height in the interior is 'wanted, instead of such a tie beam, the lateral thrust may 1 be, in a great measure, prevented by a horizontal tie kept up rhigher, as at 'Q,fig. 39., called a collar beam: but this will ! answer only in small roofs. Fig. 38. Fig. W. In larger roofs, a more complicated structure is required, wliich is represented in Fig. 10.