BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. COS most distinguished in France ; and the principal vineyards are tliose of Medoc, Palus, Graves, and Blanche, the produce of each having characters considerably different The red Medoc wines are of the very first quality, and are known by the designations of Lalitte, Latour, Chateaux Margaux, &c. When in perfection they possess a rich red colour, a bouquet resembling the perfume of violets and raspberries, are very agreeable, and are strong without readily intoxicating. The Lafitte is reckoned to have the finest flavour. The Margaux wine is next in rank. The Latour is the strongest of the Medoc wines, having the fullest body, but wanting the gi-eat softness of the others ; it is, however, the principal one brought to the English market. The Medoc district consists of a large plain lying on the north of the city of Bordeaux, and situated between the river Gironde and the sea coast of the Bay of Biscay. The vines grow on hills, consisting of a light sandy and calcareous loam intermingled with flint pebbles. The quantity of the best wines made annually does not exceed eighty tuns, far too little to supply all the places pretending to sell them : what is usually bought is, therefore, at least, of the second quality. So rare are the first-rate wines, that a bottle of the best Lafitte, Chateaux Margaux, or Haut Brion, costs, even in Bordeaux, six or seven francs. Some of the vineyards of the Lafitte have lately been purchased by an English house. Medoc wines of the second and third rate qualities are Leoville, Poulliac, Rauzan, &c. All the Medoc wines bear a sea voyage, and are rather improved by it. 3433. Tlie vins de Graves are so called from the gravelly soil on which they are produced, to the east and west of Bordeaux : they are both red and w^hite, but the latter is most celebrated and best known in England. Some of the red approach to the flavour of Burgundy, though inferior to the first of the Medoc wines. Another class of white Bordeaux wines, well known in England, consists of Barsac, Sau- terne, Beaume, &c., which have the advantage of keeping long and having considerable dryness. The Palus wines are inferior to those of Medoc. They are strong and rough when new, and are often employed to mix with Medoc wines, to give them strength and body ; but some of them, when old, have a rich bouquet. It is stated by Mr. Redding, that there is a particular manufacture known by the title of Travail a I'Anglaise for preparing claret for the English market ; in this, to each hogshead of pure Medoc wine is added three or four gallons of Spanish wine of Alicant or Benecarlo wine, half a gallon of stum wine, and sometimes half a gallon of Hermitage which is of a very superior quality. This mixture undergoes a slight fermentation called fretting in, and is then exported as claret. It is fortunate if this escapes being mixed with brandy. But the French wine brokers at Bordeaux, familiar with the qualities of the first growths, and anxious for the reputation of their wines, will supply claret with no other addition than Hermitage, providing a proper price be given. The Bordeaux wines, when genuine, may be considered as among the most perfect which France produces. The fennentation in general being more complete than in any other, they are much less disposed to acidity and other disorders than the wines of Burgundy ; they have less aroma and spirit, but more astringency, in consequence of which they are considered as the safest for daily use. The wines of Basseins and St. Eulalie d'Ambarres, near Bordeaux, furnish a wine that is generally purchased for the French navy, because it keeps well, and improves greatly at sea. Besides the wines of the Bordelais which we have mentioned, there is a prodigious number of second and third-rate wines made in this district, many of the latter unknown here by name, and seldom sent out of the country. Notwithstanding the late act by which the duties on French and Portuguese wines are equalised, and much reduced, yet Mr. M'Culloch, in his "Dictionary of Commerce," considers that the wine trade will not be placed upon a fair footing till the duty is imposed on an ad valorem principle. At present the same duty is paid on inferior and cheap wine as on the choicest Burgimdy and Champagne; and the eflect of this is to exclude all low-priced wines from the English market. Bordeaux is, commercially speaking, nearer to London than to Paris; and were it not for this system, the cheap wines of the Gironde, Languedoc, and Provence, might be bought at a less price in England than in most parts of France, as was the case some centuries ago. Mr. Porter states, in his " Progress of the Nation," that there are good light wines produced in France that could be imported at sixpence per bottle without the duty, which is at present about one shilling per bottle. 3434. Various other French wines Besides those wines of which we have given a short description, and which are best known in England, France produces a multitude of others, in almost every department, of various degrees of merit, and which it would far exceed our limits to specify. The celebrated Hcrinitaije is the produce of vineyards situated on a hill of deccmiposing granite on the Rhone, twelve miles from Valence, in Dauphiny. It derives its name from some hermitages now in ruins, to be seen upon the rock. The hill is so steep that the vines are planted on terraces, and the exposure is to the south. Red Hermitage is distinguished by its full body, deep purplish red, beine