lUAP. IV. MILK, BUTTER, AND CHEESE. 387 C c 2 were that is the principal consideration, it cannot be expected that rich cheese can be ude of the remainder of the milk. 11967. Tlie yellowish colour of butter in Enykind is generalli/ i7i part art!ficiiil. In the iimmer season, in which the cows ai-e fed on grass, it is seldom requisite to give any :; ificial colouring to butter, as what it has naturally is sufficient; but in the winter and n ing months the natural colour of butter becomes whitish, and often tallowy ; the -imers, therefore, to please their customers, use some colouring matter, as arnotto, a csing drug produced from the pulp of the seed-vessel of a shrub {Bixa orellanct) which lOws spontaneously in the West Indies ; or the juice of carrots, or the flowers of the irrigold ; but though these substances are all harmless, the practice of colouring butter iiiuld be discoiu-agod, as tending to conceal defects, and to destroy one of the tests of \)d butter, SlTBSECT. 3.—Properties of Butter. 11968. TTie taste of butter is peculiar, and vei"y unlike any other fatty substance. It is jremely agreeable when of the best quality, but its flavour depends much upon the ■ Id given to the cows : to be good, it should not adhere to the knife. 1.969. Butter is not changed by a heal that merely melts it; but if exposed to that of boiling u'.er for a little time, the butter-milk will rise to the top as a scum, and the curdy matter uiarates in a coagulated state, and falls to the bottom of the vessel with the whey and !cer, leaving the butter transparent; it is then called clarified butter. What is called »(/, in the making of melted butter in cooking, depends upon this principle. If butter lequired to be oiled, as it is called, it must be melted, and suffered to stand a little, to ;arate the sediment, and the clear butter is poured off. Butter-milk, from its bad i .lity, sometimes runs to oil in spite of the most vigilant cook. When this liappens, it uhe practice to put a little cold water to it, and to pour it rapidly backwards and for- r;ds from the saucepan into a basin, which will partially restore it. But there is an ly method of recovering it completely, by adding to it a little salt of tartar (kept in a •'3e-stopt vial for the purpose): then shaking them together, and the creamy appearance 1 be reproduced. 970. Very much of the goodness of butter depends upon the way in which it has been Iiaged after it is made. It is pressed and worked to get out the whole of the butter- kk ; if the whole is not removed, the butter will infallibly spoil in a short time ; and if ■ I too much worked it will be tough and gluey. Butter is very apt to become rancid; it cannot be preserved fresh for many days exposed to the air without the addition ioome salt: but it is observed, that the more the butter-milk is extracted, the longer the Wer will keep ; and, by ckrifying, it will keep much longer, even weeks and mouths, hhout salt. [The tendency to rancidity in butter is increased by the economical method of warming I milk in order to increase the quantity of cream and butter, and by letting the cream laain too a long time before it is churned. The cream that rises without the aid of rmth, and that is formed into butter while perfectly fresh, will yield the most delicate U, though with more labour, and which may be preserved for the longest time. ■971. By the application of salt, the tendency to rancidity is checked : a small quantity lalt is put to all butter as soon as it is made, for the sake of flavour, even when it is eed fresh ; and various quantities are added, according to the distance it is to be carried, the time it is to be kept. In hot weather fresh butter is generally too soft even ■i;n good : to harden it, it may be kept in one of the apartments connected with the ice- sse, if there is one; or it may be placed for a short time in a vessel with cold spring- fBr, into which a little saltpetre or common salt may be dissolved. It may be brought ikble in water, but should not remain long in it, as this renders it white and of an unplea- ;. appearance. When butter cannot be obtained quite fresh every day, or every other ,, a few pounds may be sprinkled with a little salt, and pressed into an earthenware tto preserve it from becoming rancid. This small quantity of salt will not prevent it 111 being quite fit for the usual purposes of melting, for toast, pastry, or bread and er. ')72. Butter, with regard to its dietetic properties, may be regarded nearly in the :t of vegetable oils and animal fats; but it becomes sooner rancid than most other fat When fresh it cannot but be considered as very wholesome ; but it should be quite from rancidity. If slightly salted when it is fresh, its wholesomeness is probably at all impaired ; but should it begin to turn rancid, salting will not correct its ' holesomeness. When salt butter is put into casks, the upper part next the air is very o become rancid; and this rancidity is also liable to affect the whole cask. i)r details of the processes in making butter, see Section " Dairy;" and for the man- of salting it, &c., see " Preservation of Food."