1172 Book XXV. THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. summer, and they cease tlirougli the natural process of moulting, or casting their feathers, ■which they do once a year. This is a critical time for all birds; they are usually more or less ill during this time, and poultry are then unfit for the table or for breeding. In moulting, the new feathers grow, forcing out the old ones, and all the nutriment is neces- sary for the growth of the feathers. The moulting season is later with old fowls than with young ones, and it continues to occur later and later every year as the fowls advance in life ; it lasts from one to three months according to the age and strength of the bird. Young poultry under three years old shed their feathers in the spring; but this period for full-grown fowls begins in the autumn. Old hens, therefore, cannot be depended upon for eggs in the winter, such being scarcely full of feathers until Christmas, and these do not begin to lay again until April, producing at last perhaps not above twenty or thirty eggs. In general, it is most profitable to dispose of hens while they are yet eatable or saleable, for that purpose, which is the spring of the third year. 6942. Hatclmiff. —The females of most birds are disposed to hatch their eggs as soon as ■they are laid. Hens form an exception, for they may be induced to lay all the summer by removing their eggs before they show any signs of a disposition to sit. This appears at last by a clucking well known to those accustomed to poultry. Hens vary much with respect to their fitness for hatching, and it is remarked that the best layers are generally the worst sitters : it is therefore important for breeding to select such hens as are known to be patient and assiduous in sitting on their eggs. It is best, if possible, to select from your own eggs, as most to be depended upon ; they ought never to be above three weeks or a month old; they should be nearly of one size, and quite perfect. Some persons are so particular as to mark with ink on the eggs the time they were laid, and it is proper to make an entry in a book of the date when they are set to be hatched. The usual mmiber of eggs placed in the nest is from nine to fifteen, according to the size of the hen. In preparing the nest, short soft straw should be used, for if the straw is long, the hen is apt to draw it out with her claws and disturb the eggs. The nest and eggs being ready, the hen should be gently placed upon them and covered with a cloth till she is perfectly quiet. The period of incubation is twenty-one days; and care should be taken that she is not disturbed by any accident, also that the plac« is warm and quiet; repose and dark- ness are favourable. The best age of a hen for hatching is from two to five years old. Pullets under two years are too young for that purpose, and the month of February is the best for hatching, though any time from that till October is good: but with proper management a brood may be had at any time of the year. Some recommend that the food should be placed so close to the nest that the hen can feed without leaving it: but it is better, perhaps, to place it at a small distance, as a little exercise is good for the hen. Some will sit so close as to be thought in danger of starving; but that is best left to na- ture in general. The hens should at this time have plenty of clean water, as they gene- rally drink a great deal. Sometimes they break some of their eggs by accident; when this happens, the broken eggs should be at once removed. The hen instinctively turns her eggs frequently, that every part may receive equal warmth, and this is best left to her management. In some hens the desire of incubation is so powerful, that they will sit several times in the year ; others will only sit once or twice in the season. Advantage must be taken of the several qualities of being good breeders or layers. 6943. The young chick, when hatched, lies in the egg, rolled up like a baU, with its bill under the right wing, and begins generally on the morning of the twenty-second day to break its way out; this it usually does successfully : but it sometimes happens that it can- not extricate itself, and may require assistance, which must be given with much precaution, and does not often succeed. The parental aflfection of the hen, as Mowbray and Parmentier have remarked, is always intensely increased when she first hears the voice of the chicks through the shells, and the strokes of their little bills against them. The si^s of a need of assistance are observed to be the eggs being partly pecked, and the efiorts ot the chicken discontinued for five or six hours. The shell may then be broken cautiously, and the body of the chicken carefully separated from the viscous fluid which lines it. It is the opinion of Reaumur, that no aid ought to be given to any chickens but those which have been near twenty-four hours employed without success. _ 6944. The chickens, when hatched, should, after an hour or two, be removed into a basket lined with wool or soft hay, and kept in a moderate degree of warmth; and, it the weather be cold, near a fire. They require no food for many hours, sometimes even twentv-four. When the whole brood is hatched, the hen is to be placed imder a coop, upon a dry spot, with the young chickens. Several different broods should "^ot be within reach of each other, lest they should mix, and the hens maim or destroy ^^fe that do not belong to them; nor should they be placed near young fowls, which wiU be I'flJJo crush^hem under their feet. The first food should be eggs boiled hard, and chopped small, boiled rice, split grits, or oatmeal: watery food, as soaked bread or potatoes, ,s im- proper at first. As they gain strength, in a few days, bread soaked m milk, and boiled orroasted potatoes, may be added. Their watershould be pure and often renewed: there