87 lUAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. hhe whole has the form of a circular pedestal. When this stove is constructed in such ; manner that the deleterious gases, arising from the combustion above mentioned, are • ffered to escape into the apartment, as is sometimes the case, through apertures d d, iiiiere the cone joins the cylinder, it is highly objectionable in confined situations, erhaps, iu some cases, as a lofty chapel, where the service is not long, the unwholesome- sss of it may not be much felt. But it is proper that the true natm-e of the stove should be understood. No combustion can take place without a certain portion of the air being injured in consequence. Mr. Ricketts, of Agar Street, Strand, aware of this, makes his gas stove as in Jig. 76., where the poisonous gases generated are carried out of the apartment by a tube, a b, and only pure warm air issues from the stove by the register cd. In this form, this apparatus may be used for warming, and has some advantages. It occupies very little room, and may be put up, wherever gas can be conveyed, and the deleterious gases carried away. The heat of the stove may be very accurately and very simply regulated, only by turning the cock of the supply-pipe, by which the flame of the gas may be increased or di- minished. It is to be observed, however, that if the iron be very much heated, the effect upon the air coming from the stove must be of the same pernicious kind as that which is usually felt from highly heated iron. When the apparatus is made of cast iron, it is not apt to be so hot as when made of sheet iron, and is not only much more uarable, but is less apt to injure the air. Sect. VIII. GENERAL AND CONCLUDING OBSERVATIONS ON WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. 377. We have purposely avoided giving any opinion as to which method may be con- iJdered as the best, until we had placed before our readers the various modes of warming uur dwellings. The variety of opinions that are afloat on this subject occasion, with nome persons, considerable perplexity ; but much of this diflSculty will probably dis- pppear by consulting principles rather than authorities. Each method has some advan- aiige, and likewise some disadvantage, to counterbalance it; and the subject has seldom k-een treated by persons wholly disinterested: these have too often held up to view uaerits or demerits, as best suited their objects. 378. It has been a fashion for some ijears past, with some persons, to exclaim against our ithimneij fire-places, which have been long adopted in this country, and which still continue irrevalent. Thus, we are told of the immense waste of fuel which they occasion; of their dirt innd smoke; of theii" scorching us on one side, and chilling us by a cold current of air on the '(ther side ; and that, therefore, it is no wonder we are attacked by colds and rheumatism. 11 is said, that no sooner is any portion of the air warmed by an open fire, but it is hurried ipp the flue ; that the temperature of the air is very unequal in different parts of the room ; hhat there is a stratum of warm air above the mantle, but that our legs and feet are immersed nn cold air. They are indeed represented as if the pecuniary interest of the coal merchant luid the physician were studied at the expense of the pocket and of health. In short, all Ihheir defects are collected and exaggerated, without their advantages being pointed out; •vhile other methods are lauded, and placed in the most favourable light. And this is not tMven the worst; for the old fashioned, long abolished chimney has been selected for pointing f'Dut defects, instead of the best constructed Rumford chimneys and grates, with all their bate improvements. There can be no doubt that chimney fire-places have defects : but so Maveall the methods of producing artificial warmth that were ever invented; and it is only \ny balancing in the various cases, advantages and disadvantages, that our choice should loe determined. «• 379. It might be supposed, that since Count liumford did so much towards the improvement vi)f chimney fire-places, he was an enthusiast in favour of the mode of warming our houses ilihrough their means: but that is not the fact. He found our fire-places in a wi'etched ■ condition, and our houses badly warmed and ventilated ; and despairing of overcoming ^iwhat he considered as our national predilection for open fires, he set himself about rendering ihhem as little hurtful to health, and producing as much comfort, as possible. In this "endeavour, he succeeded in a high degree; but he would have preferred warming our apart- iiments by stoves of some kind, in favour of which he expresses himself very strongly in lihis twelfth essay. He maintained the opinion that warm rooms are very beneficial to health; ■ and observed, that he tiad gone to Germany with as strong a prejudice against them as G 4