PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1248 Book XXVI. 7308. In the convalescent stage of scarlatina, free ventilation is no less needful ; but even, greater care is requisite than in other eases of fever to screen the patient's bed from any current of air ; for if the skin of the patient become slowly chilled, its functions are impeded, no reaction takes place, and the peculiar dropsy occurs, before mentioned as a 'sequel to this disease. 7309. The temperature of the sick-room should not be below, nor much exceed, 60° of Fahrenheit. 7310. The kind of bedding of invalids is a subject of importance to their comfort. In .so7ne cases a well-stufFed feather-bed is to be preferred to mattresses, which for fever or paralytic patients are not always sufficiently yielding. By the constant pressure of any particular spot on the mattress, the skin becomes inflamed, and a sore sometimes ensues. A feather-bed may, however, be too soft, and become easily disarranged ; the patient may be too ill to have it daily made and well shaken, and in such case it becomes often lumpy, and more uncomfortable and injurious to the skin than a hair mattress. 7311. The spriny mattresses are the most unobjectionable of any ; they give way easily to pressure, and spring up by means of their elastic stuffings, as soon as the pressure is re- moved. They require no daily making, and attbrd the patient much assistance, from their elasticity, in turning from one side to the other. They are expensive to purchase, but when a long illness occurs in a family, the value of one is incalculable. 7312. The water, or Arnolt, bed is also another valuable contrivance for mitigating the sufferings and weariness of the vic(;ims to lingering, yet fatal, diseases. In using it, the head and shoulders of the patient must be supported upon some fixed substance, otherwise, being heavier than the limbs, the inclination of the body will be the reverse of that which is natural. On whatever bed a patient lies, it should be large enough to admit of his being removed from one side to the other, to afford changes in the bed linen, as well as to afford relief in posture to the sufferer; or if the bed be small, a second bed in the room answers the same ends, as well as admitting of daily exposure, for a short period, of the bed and bedding to the air of the room, when it may be again shaken well, made and prepared for the invalid, to whom, when again carried, it will afford renewed relief and refreshment. 7313. Carpets va. t\\e. sickroom are often removed under the impression of their re- taining infection, if the illness be fever ; but their removal is sometimes very inconve- nient to the patient, causing too much noise, when the nurses are walking upon the bare floors, for the sensitive state of invalids ; when this is the case, the carpets should be replaced, and every other means adopted to deaden sound, such as stuffing cotton-wool into the window frames, using a wooden poker for the fire, &c. 7314. Bed curtains, in febrile cases of illness, should never he entirely closed, nor should the colour of bed hangings be of a vivid description ; red is often a painful colour to invalids ; green, agreeable, so that when a choice in this particular is possible, the room in which such colour is found should be appropriated to the invalid. Curtains should be removed altogether. Articles usefid in the Sick Room. The minim glass; for the accurate measurement of medicine given in drops, or tea-spoonfuls. (It may be purchased at druggists for 2s. or Is. 6<l. a-piece.) A thermuiiielcr (or ri'gulating the warmth of the invalid's room more uniformly than can be done by con- sulting cither the invalid's feelings or those of the nurse. Chloride qflimc, iu cases of illness Iron) fever, should always be kept in a bottle ready for use. Sect. II. QUALIFICATIONS OF NURSES FOR THE SICK. 731.5. Wlien a disease is lingering, or from its character requiring bodily strength in those employed as nurses, the metnbers of a family are of\on obliged to give up the charge to the hired sick nurse, who knows, or ought to know, how to perform many mi- portant duties, of which those less accustomed to illness are ignorant. An experienced sick nurse is also quick in noticing changes in the symptoms of the patients disease, which the relatives, from inexperience, would overlook, and which it may be important for the medical attendant to be informed of. But most sick nurses still require to be superintended by those most interest(;d in the recovery of invalids : they are often inat- tentive to the needful ventilation of sick rooms, and to the regulation of their tempe- rature, keeping up the fires, and especially at night; this fault often increases a patient s fever, which it puzzles the physician to account for. Sometimes, also, nurses are careless in omitting, at the precise hours, to give the medicine ordered, and are not always strict in administering the right quantity. In the convalescent stages of fever, they also require to be cautioned in respect to the diet of their patients, which in quantity they arc generally disposed to overdo. , , , , , i . i /v 731G. The qualifwulions of a good nurse should be good health; strength enough to lift