ON MAKING WINE. Chap. IV. 601 wine is the object, from an idea tbat the manure affects the flavour of the wine : this opinion is maintained by many French wine-growers ; and in the port-yielding district of the Alto Douro in Portugal, the use of manure is forbidden by law. But it is not clear that the practice of manuring is injurious; for in Germany, particularly on the Rhine, it is employed very freely : this is likewise the case in the vineyards near Bourdeaux, where the clarets are made. Liebig recommends the prunings of the vines themselves as the best manure. It is certain that the flavour of wine is affected by circumstances apparently inappreciable; scarcely two vintages afford exactly the same quality of wine, the vintage of some particular year, as that of the cometyearof 1811, sometimes excelling all others. 3394. Grapes differ considerably in their constituents from other materials employed for fer- mentation. The juice of the grape not only contains a larger proportion of saccharine matter than that of other fruits, and is consequently capable of producing a gi-eater quantity of alcohol, making a stronger liquor ; but it differs also in the nature of its acid, which is chiefly the tartaric, that being almost the only acidulous principle existing in it, particularly the matm-e gi-ape ripened in a warm climate, such as Spain, Portugal, or Madeira. 3395. The abundance of tartaric acid in the grape is one of the principal causes of its excel- lence as a material for wine. Other fruits employed for this purpose, as gooseberries, currants, elderberries. Sec, contain chiefly the malic, citric, and acetic acids, which ai'e partly combined with potash, forming malate and citrate of potash, and partly in a free state: but these salts being soluble both in water and in alcohol, necessarily remain in the wine that has been prepared from the fruits, nor can they be separated; hence all the wines made from other fruits, except the grape, contain a quantity, generally considerable, of free acid, which is injurious, at least to certain constitutions ; and as the acids are not pala- table, they are usually concealed by a large quantity of saccharine matter, as we shall afterwards find when the processes of making these wines are described. The tartaric acid, on the contrary, does not exist in the grape in a free state; but it is always combined with potash, constituting bitartrate of potash ; and this is the substance known by the name of tartar. This tartar is most abundant in the juice of unripe grapes, called often verjuice, and has an austere taste; it lessens in quantity as the grape approaches to maturity, when the sugar increases in the same proportion. The tartar is held constantly in solution in the grape juice; but as soon as the fer- mentation commences, and alcohol is evolved, a portion of the tartar is precipitated or thrown down in the solid form, because it cannot be kept in solution by alcohol; and the latter has diminished to a certain degree the solvent power of the must. The preci- pitation of the tartar takes place upon the bottom and sides of the containing vessel, to which it adheres as a hard crust in a crystalline state, called the lees of the wine. A small quantity of tartrate of lime is also found united to it, and exists even in the purified tartar, or common cream of tartar; hence it follows, that if the grapes are of the best quality, containing tartar, they have but little or no free acids ; and if the fermentation has been well conducted and complete, the resulting wine will be quite, or almost en- tirely, free from acid of any kind; and it is this circumstance chiefly that renders the grape superior to every other fruit for producing a wholesome wine. But wine is never perfect until it has subsequently undergone the very slow fermentation, which brings it to its highest point of perfection, when a still farther quantity of the tartar subsides, and constitutes what is called the crust when bottled, the quantity of which usually gives an idea of the quality and age of the wine. All grapes, however, are not entirely without other acids besides the tartaric ; but they seldom contain any of these in considerable quantity, and in that case they are less fit for the production of good wine. Besides the essential principles of the grapej namely, sugar, tartar, and natural fer- ment, it contains some mucilage, and an aromatic essential oil in minute quantity, to which the delicate perfume or aroma of the wine made from it is owing. 3396. The vintage should never commence before the grapes have arrived at their full maturity, except in cold countries, where sometimes the season is so late before they can be ripe that there is danger of their spoiling if they are not quite ripe ; yet brisk wines can be made from them. In the manufacture of the best wines, they are careful to avoid the two extremes of gathering the grapes not sufficiently ripened, or so ripe that they begin to spoil. In warm countries, in the manufacture of sweet luscious wines, the grapes are permitted to hang on the tree till they shrivel, or they are gathered and half dried in the sun. 3397. When they are to be collected, a sufficient number of persons are employed, so as to be able in a single day to gather all that is necessary to fill the fermenting vat. The unripe or decayed fruit .should be carefully separated, a circumstance which is often neglected in manufacturing the inferior wines, and in the fabrication of wine for distilling into brandy. In making Champagne, however, they prefer having a certain proportion