Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 785 lating albumen. That it is this principle in wood smoke and the pyroligneous acid which is eflective in preserving flesh is evident from the following facts. If to a solution of albiuuen in a large quantity of water, a single drop of kreosote be added, the albumen is immediately coagulated. When fresh meat is put into a solution of kreosote, allowed to remain for half an hour or an hour, then withdrawn, and afterwards dried, it may be exposed to the heat of the sun without putrefying, and in the space of eight days it be- comes hard, the colour changes to a reddish brown, and the flavour is that of good smoked beef. Fish may be preserved by it in the same manner. M. Reichenbach has ascer- tained that kreosote does not act upon pure fibrin, which by itself is said not to be suscep- tible of putrefaction. Its action upon living animals is highly deleterious. It is not to be understood from this that pure kreosote is to be preferred for this purpose to the pyrolig- neous acid ; it would be much too powerful; and what we have said is merely intended to show that it is really this substance that is the effective agent in wood smoke and pyroligneous acid. Bacon. 4487. Bacon is smoked after it is salted, in many parts of England, particularly in Wilt- shu'e. The treatment is at first nearly the same as has been already described in preparing salted bacon ; after which the flitches are hung up in the smoke. Smoked bacon is by some considered as superior to what is salted and dried only ; as it it is less salt, and thus acquires a flavour relished by some persons. The smoke may be not only from wood, but from straw ; but the wood of fir or 'deal is improper. The best way is to dry the flitohes slowly over smoke made by sawdust of oak or beech ; the fire may be kept burning in a smothering manner by sawdust, and should be kept up night and day. In some parts of the country, drying and smoking bacon and hams is a separate trade; they charge fourpence or sixpence each for hams, and one shilling for each flitch of bacon; and it saves much trouble to send the flitches to those persons who practise smoking as a business. The flitches should be hung up sufiiciently high from the fire, and they should hang till quite dry, but not so long as to get hard and cause the rind to separate. It is not prudent to rub the flitches with bran, as is sometimes done, since this often harbours insects ; and great care must be taken to preserve bacon and hams from flies, which lay their eggs there and produce maggots. It is better to put them into coarse calico bags than in paper, as the latter is liable to break and tear. 'When large quantities of bacon are to be smoked, it is generally performed in a smoking house prepared on purpose. This is generally a hut about twelve feet square, and the walls seven feet high, with a hole in the roof; joists are laid across in the inside to hang the flitches upon, and the floor is covered five or six inches deep with sawdust, ■which is kindled and causes a great deal of smoke with scarcely any flame. 4488. Wliat is called rusty bacon is in fact bacon more or less advanced in the process of decay or putrefaction; and though this may be swallowed with impunity in small ' quantities by strong ploughmen, yet it will prove extremely unwholesome to more delicate : stomachs. Bacon, as an article of food for the labouring classes, has many inconveniences : as well as its advantages of convenience and cheapness. It creates thirst, which must be quenched sometimes with beer, and too often leads to ardent spirits. Hams. 4489. Hams consist of a leg or thigh of the hog, salted, seasoned, dried, and sometimes ! smoked to give it an agi'eeable flavour. They are cured according to various modes in I difl^erent places, but it does not appear that the best method has been determined by any ' well-conducted set of experiments, though the methods are nearly similar to what we 1 have described in the curing of bacon. In those districts which are the most celebrated ; for the making of good hams, they are first rubbed very hard with salt, and some let t them remain for a time upon a stone bench, in order that the brine may drain away; 1 others, on the contrary, cover them up quite close. But whatever method has been I followed, after the lapse of a few days, they are again rubbed as hard as before, with the ' same kind of salt, mixed with saltpetre in the proportion of about half an oimce to each 1 ham; and some add sugar. Ude recommends equal parts of sugar and salt. They are ' then continued about a week longer on the bench, or in the salting tub among the brine, • when they are supposed to be ready to hang up to dry. The drying is performed in ( different modes, according as it is wished to have the hams smoked or not. If they are 1 to be smoked, they are usually hung up in large wide chimneys where they burn wood or 1 peat, as in Westmoreland, or in smoke-houses. The smoke of peat gives a peculiar I flavour. These smoking-houses sometimes consist of two or three stories, the fire being ' made in the lower one, generally a sunk story, where the previous salting is performed. The meat is hung in the story above, and it is desirable that they shall be at some distance from the fire, that the smoke may arrive at them cool; the principal part of the 3 E