232 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. holding papers. Part of the top may be made to lift up as a desk to write — on ; and a shallow drawer may pull out on the right to hold ink, pens, ^ &c., and also a shelf may be made to draw out on the left to increase the size of the top on occasions. It would be a convenient addition, though not usual, to have a cover hinged to the back, as represented in the cut, so as to shut over the top entirely, for the purpose of securing every thing on it occasionally with a lock, without disturbing or putting them away, and this cover when laid back would be useful to give more room for holding papers. This table might likewise be made with doors to cover all the drawers, in which case, one lock and key would serve the whole, or one side might be fitted up for portfolios or large books, maps, &c. It is needless to observe that this place may be made more ornamental if required. 1089. Pier tables are those which are placed against the piers between the windows ; the tops are generally formed of some precious marble or scagliola. When the slab of the pier table is supported by what is termed in architecture a consol, it is called a consol table, as in fig. 191. Pier tables are likewise supported by short columns or grotesques, as in Jig. 192. and 193., and sometimes they contain cabinets or book-shelves. Frequently ornamental vases, or other objects of vertu, are placed upon them. If there are mirrors in the apartment, they are best placed over the pier tables, as in Jig. 192., because the light from the windows coming full on the face is reflected in the mirror. When the style of Louis XIV. is adopted in the apartment, the pier tables and mirrors must be in the same style. 1090. Card-lables were formerly made as Jig. 194., with the top to fold, one half of which was supported by two of the legs which were made to turn out. Fig. 195., and 19C. represents a modern and improved construction, by which they can likewise have the top to fold, but may stand upon a single pillar. The folding top is made to revolve