705 ON TEA. Chap. X. Fig. 570 Tlie best tin tea-kettles, ^ij/. 576., have the spout formed, not of tin plate, but of stout iron tinned, without any seam, and fixed on to the kettle by being passed through a circular hole in the body, to which it is soldered inside, and therefore is safe from the flame: the handles of these are likewise made of stout iron tinned, and fixed on by rivets. The joints of copper tea-kettles are all done with hard solder, which does not melt with the common heat of a fire ; this is termed brazing. A small tea-kettle, wholly of tin plate, costs only from \s. to Is. 3c/., whereas one of the same size with strong spout and handle costs from 3s. to is. With care, the first will last a year or two, but are not fit for the common wear and tear of a kitchen. The furring of tea-kettles is a stony deposition from calcareous earth held in solution in the water; though it somewhat impedes the boiling, yet it serves to protect the kettle from rust. In countries where the water contains no dissolved earth, tea-kettles rust and wear out much faster. 40-tl. Tea-kettles for the breakfast and tea-table are generally made of more elegant forms, and various contrivances are used to keep the water boiling while it is off the fire. An old method of keeping the tea-kettle boiling was, to bring it in upon a chafing dish filled with lighted charcoal, fg. 577. A little grating on it, which was made to raise up to put in the fuel, served to place the tea-kettle upon ; but the fimies of the charcoal were found very pernicious, and this gave way to the in- vention of the tea-urn with an iron heater. The charcoal chafing dish ought not to be used except in the open air. Fig. 578. is a tea-kettle placed on a stand that con- Fig. 577. tains a flat iron heater that keeps it boiling. These are usually made of tin-plate, and are very economical and con- venient. By means of the long handle, the tea-kettle and stand may be carried in to- gether. 4042. Fig. 579 . is on the same principle, but with short handles. 4043. Fig. 580. is a tea-ket- tle of brass, placed on a stand Fig. 578. Fig.6n. with a lamp. 4044. In Jig, 581., the water is kept boiling by iron heaters; a a are tubes of copper 6 Fig. m. F,g. attached to the tea-kettle, and reaching to the bottom; b is one of the tubes detached. Within these arc put irons red hot, of which c is one separate. The knob on the top of this iron forms the finish to tlie tube b. It is important that the lid of a tea-kettle should not fit so tight as to prevent entirely the escape of steam. When tlie lid fits perfectly tight, there is danger of the steam forcing the boiling water out suddenly through the spout, by pressing upon the surface of the fluid within, a circumstance* Z z