UIAP. VI. 61 HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. tthe month of May, for about six inches, so as to expose the inner smooth bark, near I'3 foot of the tree, where an incision is made three inches square, and an inch deep, iae resinous juice soon begins to exude in transparent drops, which fall into a proper re- fptacle. The turpentine continues to flow till September ; and a healthy tree may yield iim six to twelve poimds annually, and that for a century. This turpentine consists of iimmon resin and essential oil of tui-pentine, which may be separated from each other distillation. 1194. Oil of turpentine is the essential oil, obtained by distilling with water the common rfpentine just mentioned. This is put into a still with water, and, when heat is applied, oil of turpentine comes over with the steam, being found in the receiver swimming Kion the condensed water, from which it is easily separated. About 60 lbs. of the oil is ^^ocured from 250 lbs. of good turpentine. This process is carried on both abroad and •home ; but the oil drawn in this counti'y is always preferred. The oil of tiu-pentine is i-ed by the painter to mix with his oil colour to assist in drying ; and it has an advan- (je over drying oil, that it is perfectly transparent and colourless. It has also another -•eful property, that of destroying the shining or gloss of common oil paint, as we shall ascribe. 1195. Common brown resin, or rosin, called also colophony, is the solid substance that re- aains in the retort after the distillation of the oil of turpentine. 1196. Turpentine varnish.—As the common turpentine drawn from the tree consists of ssential oil of turpentine, having resin dissolved in it, it is evident that this essential oil aa solvent for resin. If resin be therefore put into oil of turpentine, it will be dissolved idd constitute turpentine varnish, which may be made thin at pleasure by adding more of ee essential oil. When laid on with the brush, the oil evaporates and leaves the resin as ee varnish. Since resin is not soluble in water, turpentine varnish will resist that fluid ; idd as it is soluble in oil of turpentine and in spirits of wine, it may be removed by either ' t these vehicles. * 1197. Tar is an empyreumatic turpentine, obtained by cutting to pieces trees of the pine or ■ • tribe, and exposing them to heat in a furnace or in the open air. In the latter mode the .■ood is cut into billets, piled up in stacks, and covered with turf. Fire is then applied to k-e wood, and it is sufPered to burn with a slow smothered flame, during which process the irr is formed by the partial decomposition of the resinous juice, which flows to the lOttom ; the black colour is owing to the smoke and carbon or soot which is mixed with ide product. The greater part of the tar used in England comes from the Baltic, and is uade in the northern countries adjoining it, which abound in fir. In France and Switzerland, tar is procured by a more economical process, and of better quality. It is huere distilled from the wood in large brick ovens, and the charcoal which remains I used as fuel. 198. Pitch is tar of which the essential oil has been driven off by boiling. Tar differs niom common turpentine in having been extracted by heat and blackened by the process, rl hereas the latter preserves its natural colour: but both contain the essential oil 17 turpentine, although this can only be obtained pure from the turpentine. Pitch s prepared in the countries where the tar is procured : and to convert tar into it, boiling • all that is necessary. 199. 77(6 painter's tools are few. The brush which they usually employ, called a pound rrush, made of hogs' bristles, is first used as a duster, imtil the ends of the hair are n) worn as to become soft : it is then better adapted to lay on the colour and spread it ^venly; and the more it is used the better, till it begins to wear out. Smaller brushes are iimploycd for the bars of sashes, called sash-tools,- and a few still smaller are wanted for Irrawing lines, &c. 200. Some of the colours are purchased at the colour shops in a prepared, and others in a rrude. state. Some of the painters grind them themselves, on slabs of porphyry or marble, ti'ith oil or water. It is of the greatest importance that all their colours, tools and pots, lihould be kept extremely clean and neat, and their brushes be kept moist and fit for use. iWhen more colour is prepared than can be used immediately, it is prevented from drying ivy being covered with water. 201. Tfie first process in painting new work in oil is to paint or cover by some mode the ir.nots in the wood, to prevent the turpentine with which they are charged from coming lihrough, as it would do after the work is finished. This is called hwltimj, which, nn good work, requires to be done very eifectually. The common method is to touch lach knot with a brush full of paint made with white lead ground in oil and some red ' ead or litharge of lead as a more perfect dryer : some knots may require to be touched "wice ; but in the best work the most complete way is to touch the knots with gold size, I'.nd to apply gold or silver leaf to the knots, which eH'cutually prevents them from i;ippearing afterwards when the painting is finished. 202. Tlie next process is priming the work, or giving it the first coat, which generally : ionsists of white lead, with some red lead (o make it dry soon. The wood in this E 2