BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 556 pi'oci'ss prepares the operator for his various operations, that may be regarded in tlie light of .so many experiments, which, by this, he will understand and pursue with more certainty and intelligence. He is likewise by these means enabled to avoid many errors to which those unacquaiuted with principles are liable, and likewise the waste which they frequently occasion; an acquaintance with the scientific principles of an art renders the practice of more easy acquirement; and it is deserving of attention that the experience gained in this manner can be transmitted to others with greater facility. By connecting practice with theory, the latter being the kuoM'ledge of causes, an art is elevated, and may be rendered highly amusing, instead of its being, as it otherwise would, mere drudgery. 3137. Fifty years ago, brewing, both public and private, was in a very rude state. The first attempt to reduce it to scientific principles was made by a skilful brewer, Mr. John Richardson, to whom the art is much indebted, and to whose example we owe the present race of scientific brewers ; but the modern discoveries in chemisti-y have like- wise of late been successfully applied to the improvement of this art, which really involves some of the most curious and interesting phenomena in nature, and which has been considered to deserve the attention of some of our greatest philosophers. 3138. // has been supposed tliat breioiiig un a large scale is necessary to produce good malt liquor. This, however, appears to be an error ; and though there are some difSculties in private brewing which are experienced in a less degree by manufacturers, yet there are some advantages in the former. Mr. Donovan observes that less heat is excited during the fermentation of small than of large quantities; and there is less danger of over attenuation, which renders the liquor liable to pass into acidity. When some of the fermentable matter is left unexhausted, it undergoes a slow and long-continued fermentation in the bottle, during which it mellows and becomes highly vinous. The great brewers, accordingly, have, in consequence, often fermented in small quantities; and Mr. Donovan, as well as other chemists who have paid attention to the subject, further states, that, from his own experience, malt liquors are best made in this manner in point of briskness, soundness, and body. 3139. The economy or saving in domestic brewing is, perhaps, not considerable ; though, from calculations which have been published, the cost of beer should not be so great as when purchased from the brewer. But we are not to suppose from this difference in price that the brewer's profits are exorbitant; for he must have to pay for extensive premises, a very numerous establishment, and very costly apparatus ; and out of this, too, the publican must have his profit. But economy is not the only advantage in domestic brewing. Good malt and hops are the only materials that we can depend upon, in general, for making sound wholesome beer: and it is by domestic brewing alone that the genuineness of beer can be secui'ed. There are many public brewers, no doubt, who use only the legal ingredients, malt and hops, in brewing; but it would appear that before the beer or ale arrive at the consumer (unless common report in this instance deserves no credit), either improper substitutes are used in part for these materials, or some of the dealers adulterate these beverages ; and it is well known that many of the articles employed for this purpose ai'e of an extremely deleterious nature. Nothing is more usual than for persons to express their preference of home-brewed beer, which would not be the case were it not really of a superior quality. Home-brewed beer is, in fact, if properly made, excellent in every respect. It spontaneously becomes transparent, and requires no addition for fining: it is also particularly calculated for bottling. 3140. It has been stated, very erroneously, that cottagers and others could buy beer at a lower price than they could make it at, since large quantities are made cheaper than small. Here the brewers' and the publicans' profits have been forgotten; the labourer saves all these, and, besides, the women can do this work. Before we proceed to lay before our readers the principles of the art of brewing, it may be useful to give a sketch of the general process. 3141. Outline of the general process of brewing.—The term brewing is confined to the art of preparing froni grain the fermented beverages called malt liquors, such as ale, porter, and beer. Grain, of itself containing too little saccharine matter to produce the vinous fermentation, is made to go through a process by which the quantity of its sugar is much increased, and by which it is converted into 7nalt, the substance from which the term malt liquor is derived. An infusion of malt is then made with water, at about 170° ; this is termed mashing, and the extract so produced is called loort. This wort, containing much saccharine matter in solution, might now be fermented ; but the produce of such fermentation, though it would contain spirit, and be a kind of ale, would very soon turn sour, on account of the great quantity of mucilage and starch in the liquor, which would pass rapidly into the acetous fermentation. To precipitate these substances, and thus destroy one of the chief causes of the injurious change which would otherwise take place, as well as to communicate a more agreeable flavour and taste, hops are boiled with the wort; the bops contain some tannin, an astringent principle, which, combining with the mucilage, causes it to coagulate and separate, thus enabling the beer