I llAP. I. 951 SPINNING AND WEAVING. rrespect to warmth is, that black clothes are the hottest when the sun is most powerful, aand white the warmest when the sun has least power ; while white is coolest in summer, sand black the coldest in winter. 5594. In the following account of the clothing manufactures, we shall not attempt going iiinto all the minute details respecting them, but only say what is necessary to give an idea oof their general history, and to point out the proper distinctions between the several ffabrics. We shall class them according to the natural substances of which they are ccomposed; and we shall preface our account with the processes of spinning and weaving. Sect. II. SPINNING. 5595. The art of spinning yam or thread is of great antiquity, and must have preceded t that of weaving cloth. The most ancient and the simplest mode of spinning is by the 1 distaff and spindle ; the distaff is nothing more than a stick that the spinner fixes in his £ girdle, supporting it with his left hand; round the top of this the material to be spun, 1 which, after being properly prepared, is lapped round, so that a few fibres at a time may be I drawn off from it with the thumb and finger of the right hand, to form the thread. The 5 spindle is a small piece of hard wood, made round and pointed at one end, to which the t fibres to be twisted are attached; this being put into a twirling motion by the hand, t twists these fibres together as fast as they are drawn out by the fingers, in an even manner. ' The motion of the spindle is constantly kept up by striking it as often as the hand can be > spared from the operation of guiding the thread, which, as it is twisted, is wound round t the spindle till it forms a ball. 5596. This very simple mode of turning the spindle was, in some places, superseded by t the use of a wheel and band employed for that purpose, which forms a machine called the I one-thread wheel; this has been long used in India for spinning cotton, and in Europe for i spinning flax, cotton, and wool. But the wheels for spinning must be adapted in some ( degree to the nature of the materials operated upon. 5597. Flax, owing to the great length and straightness of the fibres, has merely to be (dressed so as to bring the fibres parallel to each other, though of different lengths, and I thus they are drawn down by the fingers, and united together by the twist of a wheel. ' This length of the fibres gives the yarn a greater tenacity than that of cotton, while, at the : same time, it is more difficult to form them into a very regular and fine thread, because I the fibres themselves have no natural determinate size, this depending a good deal upon I the processes by which they are split or divided. The structure of the fibres, also, being ■ more smooth and glossy, and having no entanglement, they require to be made adhesive by moisture or wetting, which renders them more pliant and easier to twist together. The fibres of flax have much less elasticity than those of wool; the latter will stretch to from one-fourth to one-half more than their length before they give way, whereas the fibres of flax will not stretch above one-twenty-fifth of their natural length. 5598. The flax-wheel is turned by a treadle moved by the foot; a catgut cord goes from a groove in the rim of this wheel, and over the pulley of a spindle on which the thread is wound, and which is turned by the motion of the wheel. A bundle of flax, prepared, is fixed to an upright fastened to the frame of the wheel, from which the fibres are drawn by hand and led to the spindle, being regularly disposed upon it by an apparatus called a flyer. When this spindle or bobbin is full of thread, it is taken off and an empty one placed there to supply its place. The length of the fibres of flax permit several of them to be drawn down together to some little length, which are afterwards twisted into a thread by the revolution of the spindle. Wool and cotton require a very different treatment from flax in spinning. The fibres of these materials are short, and they must be carded and made into a roll before they can be drawn out into a fine and even thready fit for the loom. Most of the vegetable fibres, as flax and hemp, require to be moistened during the spinning, to render them more supple; but cotton, wool, and silk are spun in a dry state. 5599. The wheel for spinning wool for cloth also dif- fers materially from that employed to spin flax. In the former (^fig. 778.) the spindle is made of iron, and placed horizontaliy on the end of a wooden frame standing upon legs. A wheel is supported upon the same stand, and a band goes over the wheel and the spindle, the revolving motion given to the former being thus com- municated to the latter. The cardings of wool are made into soft fleecy rolls of about twelve inches long and 3 P 4