Boon vir. ON FOOD. 440 While young, they may be safely eaten; yet -when they .attain such an age that they are capable of reproduction, they possess properties which render them poisonous if employed in the same manner, though they may be used as active medicines, in small quantities. 2301. TJifferent species of plants vary exceedingly according to the parts which afford ivholesome and proper nutriment. In some this is found only in the seeds ; in others in the leaves ; in some again in the roots ; of others all the parts may be eaten. Some are even poisonous, until they are deprived of a certain juice, and then the rest is harmless food. The fibrous and membranous parts of vegetables are not easily digestible, or not at all. The skins of fruits in general, as of grapes, pass through the stomach unchanged ; so do the husks of peas ; and corn, grains or seeds of various kinds, often go through the stomachs of horses, birds, and other animals in a state still fit for germination on accoimt of the indigestibility of the husks, which points out the advantage of first boiling or soak- ing them in hot water till they burst. The green leaves of vegetables, though in general acting somewhat on the bowels, are apt to produce acidity and flatulence with dyspeptic persons, and are therefore less fit for them than farinaceous food. 2302. Vegetables, though devoid of sensation, possess what is termed the living principle; but this is of a vei^ different kind from what we denominate the life of an animal; yet between both there are analogies which are very remarkable. Animals receive food into their mouths, from which it passes into the stomach; plants take in their food by the roots, which are their mouths. Both animals and vegetables possess a power, depending upon the vital principle, by which the food is digested, converted into nutriment, and assimilated, so as to enter into the substance of their frames. In order to this, it is made to move through a series of vessels, in which it undergoes certain alterations by which it is transformed into several different juices adapted for different purposes in the living body. The mode in which these changes are effected is absolutely unknown to us, the chemistry of nature being beyond our power of investigation. But by these means are formed all the substances called secretions, whether gum and sugar in vegetables, or bile in animals. Plants are even provided, as well as animals, with a breathing apparatus, consisting of an infinity of minute pores which open upon the surface of the leaves, and communicate with the tubes that contain the flowing juices ; and in both cases, air is essential to the life and health of the organic being. Not only do various plants secrete different substances, but they require different kinds of food, and various temperatures, in order to flourish, as is the case with animals. Notwithstanding these points of agreement, however, the difference between the two classes is sufiiciently marked in general, although certain species in each approach so near together, that it is sometimes difiicultto say to which of the two kingdoms they properly belong. 2303. Jh considering the nature of vegetable matter as employed for food, we shall follow the same plan as that by which we examined the nutritive properties of animal food. We shall inquire into the chemical nature of vegetables in general, and collect together those proximate principles into which all vegetable substances may be resolved. 2304. It has been already stated, that the elements of which all vegetable bodies consist are carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and niti-ogen. But nitrogen exists in the vegetable kingdom in much smaller quantity than in animals. This constitutes a marked difference between animal and vegetable matter. The former has always a large proportion of nitrogen in its composition; whereas, in the latter, this element is found in any considerable quantity only in particular parts of plants, as, for example, in their gluten and albumen; in many other parts it is entirely wanting, a few vegetables, as the fungi, which abound in nitrogen, being exceptions. Thus (as we have already stated, but which we here repeat for the convenience of the reader) the same elements are found both in the animal and vegetable kingdom; and the very same particles may at one time compose part of an animal, and at another time be a portion of a vegetable. There is not, therefore, as some persons might suppose, a kind of substance absolutely and permanently of a vegetable nature, but matter is only vegetable for a time. Thus, animals feed upon vegetables ; and the elementary particles of which the latter consist enter as food, and are made to supply the waste in animal bodies: the particles unite with tlie animal substance, and become of the same kind ; they are assimilated, and are now a portion of an animal. The animal dies, undergoes decomposi- tion, and its carcase, or a part of it, mixes with the soil, and is often employed as manure to vegetables. A portion of the decomposed animal matter acts either directly or indi- rectly, in supplying food to the roots of the plant, which it foi-ms into wood, bark, juices, or other parts of its body. In this new condition, the particles may belong essentially to the vegetable; but they have suffered no actual change ; they have only been arranged in a new form, and are differently combined. The elements we have mentioned, as common to the two kingdoms, are exactly of the same nature, whether they are drawn from the one or the other. But nature only can make these arrangements : himian art can decompose both animal and vegetable matter into its ultimate elements, but cannot form out of them either an animal or a vegetable, nor can it change the one into the other.