1000 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII, ( foi-merly were only worn by people of quality, or the upper classes of gentry, now adoru i the dress of females in a sphere of life which at no remote period usually displayed more homely attire. 5890. From the eagerness with which the fur trade has been pursued for many years, and the vast destruction of fur-bearing animals, this material has necessarily become more scarce. The advanced state of geographical science shows that few new countries remain to be explored : and from the indiscriminate slaughter practised by the hunters in Asia and America, and the appropriation to the uses of man of those forests and rivers which have afforded them food and protection, they must continue to decrease, although a supply may long remain in the mountains and uncultivated tracts. 5891. Wlien skills are merely dried, being in other respects just as they were taken from the animal, they are denominated peltries; and they are properly called furs after they have undergone an aluminous process, by which the skin has been converted into a kind of leather. The principal animals from which fur is procured, are the ermine, sable, fox, bear, beaver, martin, otter, squirrel, cat, hare, and rabbit; but there are many other animals more rare which aiford a fine fur. That of various amphibious animals, as the seal and beaver, is protected by a coating of long coarse hair; and when this hair is removed, the short fur appears, which is shaved off for the purpose of covering hats. 5892. The fur of tlie ermine is the most valuable of any, and is well known as forming the lining to the state robes of royalty. This little animal is of the genus mustela (weasel), and resembles the common weasel in its form; it is in length from fourteen to sixteen inches, from the tip of the nose to the end of the tail; the body is from ten to twelve inches long. The change of colour which the ermine experiences in winter in northern climates is a matter of much interest to the physiologist, and of profit in a com- mercial point of view. In summer its fur is brown, and it is only in winter that this becomes of that softness and snowy whiteness which occasions so high a price to be set upon it. This is effected, not by the loss of the summer coat and the substitution of a new one for the winter, but by the actual change of colour in the existing fur. The extremity of the tail, however, undergoes no change, but remains permanently of a bril- liant shining black, the under parts retaining a slight yellowish tinge. When the white fur is made up into dress, the tails are inserted, one to each skin, at regular distances, in quicunx order, and the pure white of the skin is thus relieved and set off by the rich black of the tail. The early employment of the fur for such uses occasioned its introduction among the colours of heraldry, where it appears either as the ground of the shield, or in the bearings. The fur is found of the best quality only in the cold regions of Europe and Asia, and the animal lives in hollow trees, river banks, and especially in beech forests; it preys on small birds, is very shy, sleeping during the day, and employing the night in search of food. It is taken by snares and traps, and sometimes shot with blunt arrows. The fur of the old animals is preferred to that of the younger. It is seen, though rarely, in Scotland, and in the north of England, where it is called the white stoat, but its fur is very inferior to the foreign. 5893. The fur of the sable is also very highly prized; it is brownish black, and the darker the more desirable it is. It is finer, softer, and more glossy than that of any other quadruped, except the ermine. The sable is a native of Northern Europe and Siberia, and is also of the genus mustela. In the northern parts of Asiatic Russia it is found of the richest quality and darkest colour. In its habits it resembles the ermine, preying on small squirrels and birds, sleeping during the day, and prowling for food during the night. It varies in dimensions from eighteen to twenty inches. It is much used at present for making the well-known article of dress called boas. 5894. Tliefitchet weasel yields a valuable fur, though inferior to the sable. 5895. Fox skins furnish a considerable variety of furs. In the cold countries animals of this species are of all colours, white, grey, blue, iron grey, silver grey, red, variegated, and black. Of these the last is the most valuable, and the first the least; the hair of the white fox is apt to fall off. The blue fox skins are sought for with avidity, owing to their scarcity, and the black fetch a high price, from their justly-acknowledged beauty ; but the red fox of Asia is of a more brilliant colour, and its fur softer and finer, than any other ; in China it is highly prized, and is variegated by adding spots of black fur. The silver fox is a rare animal, a native of the woody country below the falls of the Columbia river in North America. It has a long, deep lead-coloured fur, intei-mingled with long hairs, invariably white at the top, forming a bright, lustrous silver grey; by some it is con- sidered as more beautiful than any other kind of fox. .... 589G. A dog is bred in Norway and Lapland for the sake of its skm, which js covered with a remarkably fine, soft, and glossy fur of a dark brown or black colour, and which is imported for muffs and tippets. 5897. The martin affords a valuable fur of various colours; but the part that extends along the spine, being of a deeper and richer brown than the rest, is most esteemed. The martins from Northern Asia, and the mountains of Kampschalka, are much superior to