221 (Ch\f. X. FURNITURE OF .THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. lof cold air; to exclude the rays of the sun, which, in summer, are injurious to furni- !i:ure ; to keep out insects ; or to prevent persons seeing into the house ; and according to these several purposes, and the nature of the apartments, the quality of the materials, and the manner of hanging them, must be determined. 1032. In this comilnj, particularly, window curtains are necessanj to exclude the cold air nwhich presses in from the windows, especially in winter when the fires are burning, how- 3ver close the sashes may be made. But there is another cause for the cold proceeding ifrom windows, which is not generally thought of The warm air in the room, which jMways occupies the upper part next the ceiling, coming into contact with the glass, is icooled by it, and, immediately descending in consequence, diffuses itself through the Icower part of the room, and is felt as a cold current coming from the windows, although iiaone may have entered that way. Curtains check this by partly preventing the warm .lir from reaching the glass, and partly by directing the current sideways. Curtains like- wise hide the unsightly appearance of the shutters with their fastenings, when closed. In warm climates they are used rather to moderate the sun's rays, or to prevent the intrusion Df flies ; and this is their principal use with us, independent of their ornamental appear- aance in the summer season : then figured muslins are often employed alone. 1033. Light, which is so favourable to the life and health of living beings, is very prejudicial to furniture, by destroying its colours. It may be observed, that those portions of the furni- luure of a room, particularly when of dyed materials, on which the sun is permitted to sbhine, wiU be much faded, while those parts -which have not been so exposed may retain tl:heir original brightness. 1034. The effect of the sun's rays upon oil colours may be mentioned as an exception to il.his rule; for pictures painted in oil, which are put away with their faces turned to the wall, change much more than when hung up and exposed to the light; it may also be bbserved, that those parts of walls which have been long covered by pictures or mirrors, hhave changed and become darker than the rest: oil paint therefore does not suffer from lithe sun's rays. Water colour drawings, however, suffer much from being always ex- posed to the light; and when valuable, should be defended by a silk screen to cover them when not required to be seen. 1035. The simplest kind of window curtain, which may be used in the bedrooms of small houses, or in cottages, con- sists merely of two pieces of dimity, printed calico, muslin, or other mate- rial, of the proper length and width, nailed to the top of the architrave, or to a piece of wood fastened up on purpose, as in fig. 161., a, and kept back in the day by being looped up on each side by a cord fixed on the sides of the window. This curtain may, if thought proper, have some kind of border at the top, with or without a fringe, as in fg- 161., 6. Another simple mode is to have the curtain in one piece to draw up by means of lines and pulleys, as in fig. 162. To effect this, a pulley is fixed at each end of a flat piece of wood as long as the window is wide ; and another fpuUey is let into the wood, so as to divide the lath into two equal parts. The curtain is nailed to this wood, and pieces of tape are then sewed down the curtains at the two sides, and also just under the middle pulley, and there a number of rings are fixed. Through these rings are passed three cords, which go over the pulleys, and are then fastened together: by means of these cords, the curtains can be raised or lowered at pleasure. The boards with the puUeys may be concealed by a lath covered with a border, and having a small va- F,g. 101. Fig. 1C2 lance: these are called tthe French manner was by upholsterers festoon curtains, and were very general before introduced of making them slide on a rod. 1036. The general mode of hanging curtains at presen t in the better sort of rooms, is by \ having rings at the top of the curtains, passing over a rod stretched across, by which each 1 half of the curtain is drawn to one side of the window, as in fig. 163., A. T'his curtain rod 1 may either be visible, or may be concealed by a cornice, valance, or drapery. When it : is intended to be visible, it is made thicker, of wood or brass, and is then termed a pole: ' when it is not to be visible, it is made thinner, of iron or brass, The curtain pole is