Chap. V. 171 ILLUMINATION BY MEANS OF GAS. a cylindrical glass, which prevents the flame from flickering with the wind; but it has little efiect in destroying the smoke. When a very strong light is required, causing, of course, a greater con- sumption of gas, it is proper to use glasses contracted in the manner shown when treating on Lamps, that cause the current of air to impinge upon the flame. This kind of glass is the more ne- cessary for oil gas, on account of the quantity of carbon which it contains, which, if unburnt, would occasion smoke. The pin- holes should be exactly of equal size, otherwise the light will burn like a badly-trimmed Argand lamp. The height of the flame is regulated by turning the stop-cock on the pipe. Fig. 150. exhibits the usual manner in which two gas burners are suspended, or rather appear as if suspended; here the gas is sup- Fig. 149. Fig. 150. plied to the burners by a tube in the centre, from which branches proceed, furnished with stop-cocks. An infinite variety of other designs are employed; and some closely resembling the forms of elegant chandeliers are introduced. 760. In a yas flame, as in that of a candle, it may be observed that the bottom of the flame is blue; because, as it issues with great velocity, the gas gets mixed with a large quantity of atmospherical air, and the hydi'ogen is consumed too rapidly for the carbonaceous part to be bui'ned also ; the flame of hydrogen alone being blue: but, higher up, the flame becomes white, because it is there the carbon is consumed, which produces the whiteness and luminous property of the flame. 761. The various other products of coal, when distilled, besides the gas, are turned to some account. From the ammoniacal liquor muriate of ammonia is made. 200 lbs. of coal afford 17 lbs. of coal tar, which again contains in 100 lbs. 26 lbs. of coal oil, and 48 lbs. of pitch. The tar is employed as a paint to preserve wood, but its smell is disagreeable. The pitch may be used for some of the purposes answered by common pitch, though it is inferior. 762. Coa? 0(7, procured by the distillation of coal tar, mixed with an equal bulk of water, may be used as a fuel under a boiler. The mixture is made to boil ip a kettle, and the mingled vapours of the oil and the water, when passed through a perforated nozzle, are kindled, and give a great heat ; the water is thought to be in part decom- posed. Coal oil, rectified by distillation, is extensively employed for dissolving caoutchouc in making the varnish of waterproof cloth, and also for burning in peculiar kinds of lamps, under the improper name of naphtha. 763. Portable gas. The inconvenience of being obliged to have the lights fixed in the ordinary way of employing it gave rise to the contrivance of portable gas, which was the invention of Mr. Gordon. To make these lights portable, the gas is forcibly compressed into a strong metal vessel, provided with a narrow jet of brass, and a stop-cock. When the cock is turned, the gas, by its elasticity, issues from the jet. and continues to come out and supply the flame as long as its density exceeds that of the atmosphere. The elasticity produced by the compression of the gas is considerable, and were not the vessels strong, would burst them. In general, thirty volumes of gas are compressed into one ; but the metal is sufficiently strong to resist a much greater pressure. Portable gas was much in use at one time, but now appears to be nearly laid aside. A company was formed for its distribution, who sent it to any part of London where it was wanted. 764. Gas lamps may, to a certain extent, be made portable, by having a flexible tube of caoutchouc coming from the seivice gas pipe, and reaching to the place where the gas is required to burn, where it may supply a stand like that of an ordinary candlestick or