855 Chap. VI. PUMPS. scarcely venture to recommend dispensing with a good open fire. Some of the best kitchens are to be seen in the London chib-houses, which have been fitted up with all the modern improvements; and a visit to them will amply repay those who have taste and discernment enough to perceive the advantage of studying and improving this part of oiu- domestic economy. In some of these, steam is very successfully applied in a variety of ways; and the facility with which the culinary art is carried on is deserving of atten- tion. CHAP. VI. PUMPS ; AND LIST OP PURNITURE, Fig. 755. 4819. Pumps being machines in common use in many establishments, it is proper that their construction should be understood ; and we proceed to explain their general prin- ciples. The different kinds may be reduced to three, the lifting, sucking, and forcing pump. 4820. TTie lifting pump (Jig. 756.) is the simplest, though not so frequently used in do- mestic economy for raising water as the common or sucking pump. Its employment is chiefly restricted to such places as mines, where water is required to be raised in great quantities, and from a great depth. A cylinder, a, b, descends into the water to be raised, and has a valve placed at c, opening upwards. A piston having a valve in it also opening upwards, is movable upwards and downwards in the cylinder by means of iron rods, d, e,f. When the piston is pushed down in the water, its valve opens, and when it is raised, the valve shuts, and as the water above it cannot descend, the piston lifts it as far as the length of its stroke, causing it at the same time to lift I the valve, c; on the piston descending again, the water i that has been raised above c, remains 'there, that valve falling down and preventing its descent. The same effect follows every stroke of the pis- ton, more and more water getting above both valves, which by shutting each time prevents its descent again. By a repetition of this action, water is at length lifted up as high as it is required; but it is to be observed, that as the piston has to support the whole weight of the water above it when the valve c opens, great power is neces- sary in raisingwater from considerable depths. 4821. In the sucking pump {fig. 757.) the raising of water is assisted by the pressure of the atmosphere. It is known that this pressure is equal to the weight of a column of water about thirty-two feet in height, according to the height of the barometer; water can therefore be raised so high, but not higher, by taking advantage of this pressure. To effect this a tube or cylinder is provided, thirty-two feet in length, a, b, called the suction pipe, which is plunged into the water to be raised, having some contrivance at the bottom to permit the water to enter, but keep back pebbles and dirt, and a valve opening upwards at the top, g; on this is placed another short cylinder, c d, but of larger diameter; this has a piston, f, working in it upwards and downwards by means of the rod, /c; when this piston, which must fit very exactly into the cylinder in which it works, is pushed down, its valve will rise, the air beneath acting in the same manner as the water in the lifting pump, and when the piston is raised, its valve will close, and it will lift up the air that is above it; but by this means, a portion of air has been withdrawn from the space between the two valves, and the air in the suction pipe, by its elasticity, hastens to supply the vacuum thus formed, and opens the lower valve, g. Through the extraction of a portion of air by the upward motion of the piston, the whole of the air beneath it is in 3 I 4