ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. 782 of Glasgow, has given an economical process for recovering It:—" Dilute the brine with water until its spe- cific gravity is 110 ; then pour it into a clean boiler, cast iron is best; and, to two gallons and a half, add an egg previously beaten up along with two-thirds of an ounce of finely-powdered charcoal; boil and skira off the impurities which will then collect. The liquid, on cooling, will be as colourless as water. Any fish or meat to be preserved by this recovered brine must be sprinkled with salt. Different sorts of meat should never be put into the same brine." 4466. Pickled pork. —Pork does not keep long -without being salted, not so long as other meat. Great part of what is used for domestic purposes is slightly salted, or, as it is called, pickled; this, as is well known, is generally eaten with fresh meat of some kind, as poultr)% veal, &c. The method of pickling it is the following: — Cut the pork into pieces of a suitable size ; rub them well with salt; put them into a pan with a sprinkling of salt between each piece ; as the salt melts on the top, strew on more. Lay a coarse cloth over the pan, a board over that, and a weight on the board to keep the pork down in the brine. 4467. In most farm-houses, where pork is to be kept, it is treated thus : — When well salted, and cut into pieces, it is put into kits; after which it is directed to be covered with brine made sufficiently strong to swim an egg, and simmered over a gentle fire until the impurities which rise are skimmed off; this, when cold, is poured upon the meat, which sometimes remains in that state so long as two or three years befora it is used ; at which age, it is said, the fat is more firm, of better flavour, and wastes less when boiled than with less keeping. 4468. All kinds of anivial substances may be preserved by salt, but beef and pork are the only kinds of meat usually cured in Britain as staple articles ; and the former is by far the most used in domestic life. Neither of these it is now "found necessary to salt to a great degree for home consimiption ; it is for sea stores chiefly that it is requisite to salt them completely. For distant sea voyages, pork is preferred, for several reasons which it may be useful to point out. Pork can be preserved by a smaller quantity of salt than beef; it takes up less salt, and is, consequently, less salt to the taste. A piece of pork and a piece of beef were salted as nearly as possible in the same manner; at the end of three months the pork was of a proper degree of saltness, but the beef was so salt as scarcely to be eatable. Every one must have observed that the fat of salted meat is less salt than the lean ; and, as pork contains much fat, this may be one cause of the effect mentioned. The fat of fresh pork is too luscious to be relished; but, when salted, it becomes firmer, not so disagreeable to the palate, and is more digestible. Fat, in general, has a less tendency to putrefaction than the lean of meat, as may be observed in oil, tallow, lard, &c. It is scarcely necessary to observe, that too great care cannot be taken that the provi- sions for the navy should be of the best quality, when we consider the importance of health to sea-faring people, and that they are for a long time deprived of the power of changing their provisions. Bacon. 4469. Bacon is made from the sides and belly of the hog, salted and dried. Each side is called a flitch of bacon. This is a very ancient mode of preserving the flesh of the hog; and bacon has long been, and still continues, a favourite food among the labouring classes in England, but is scarcely at all used by the same class in Scotland. It is ex- tremely useful in the compositions of the cook. Smoke is generally employed in the drying of bacon, which is effected by hanging it in the wide chimneys of farm-houses. But some persons dislike the flavour commtmicated by much smoke ; and bacon is some- times cured entirely, or almost entirely, without it. 4470. The general process of curing bacon without smoking is as follows: — It is recommended that the hair should be burnt off the hog, after it has been killed, by singeing it with kindled straw laid over it, and that the skin should not be scalded, or wetted with water. A large wooden trough or tray being provided for the salting, with a gutter round its edges to drain off the brine, the flitches are to be sprinkled over with • salt, and left for twenty-four hours in the trough, or on sloping boards, for the blood to drain away thoroughly. They are then to be taken out and wiped dry; the drainings are to be thrown away. Both sides of the flitches, but particularly the inside, or fleshy side, are to be well rubbed with either common salt alone, or, what some prefer, with a mixture in the proportion of three or four pounds of common salt, half a pound of s,%llpetre, and oiie pound of coarse sugar or treacle. The salt should be previously well dried in a frying-pan over the fire, when the rubbing is finished, the flitches are placed in the trough upon e.nch other, the skin side lowermost and, next day, they should be salted again. They are then to be left in the trough for a month or six weeits, according to the size of the flitches and the state of the weather, rubbing them over with salt four or five times in that time. After this they are dried by hanging them up over the fire, but not in the smoke, and afterwards laying tliem upon a rack hung up to the ceiling in the kitchen, or in some very dry but not too warm a place, nor in the sun, as either of these will ciuso the bacon to turn rusty. There are some slight variations of this process as practised in different parts of the kingdom; and it is in Yorkshire and Somersetshire chiefly that bacon is cured without smoking. . , . „ , ^ A great deal qf bacon ts cured in Ireland, and Imported from thence j but it is not so well fed or cured as the English bacon, and is lower priced. 4471. Hams are cured in a similar manner; but this varies in different parts of the country. In Yorkshire they are cured without smoke as follows : — Mix and pound together a peck of common salt, five pounds of bay salt, of saltpetre mA sal prunel two ounces each ; sprinkle the ham with salt, and lay it down for twenty-tour hours; rub it well with the above mixture and let it remain for three days ; then t-iko out the meat,and boil the pickle in two g.illons of w.itcr, adding salt sufflcient to make the bfinc strong enough to float an egg ; when this is cold, pour it over the ham,