CANDLES. • Chap. III. 139 > consumption of tallow, and consequently the light. The candle is contained in a hollow -stem with a spiral spring, in the same manner as Palmer's, which keeps it always at the -same height; and the wick is elevated or depressed by means of a rack and pinion at the I bottom, moved by the nut a; by bringing the wick down enough, the light can be ex- itinguished. With candles four or two to the pound, it is said that more light is given ' than by the same weight of candles burnt in the common way. The smoke is also idestroyed by the form of the glass cylinder put over the flame ; by means of the contrac- ;tion of the glass at the lower part, the air is made to impinge upon the flame, and thus cause the combustion of what would otherwise escape as smoke. Besides this cylinder, ; there may be a ground glass moon. The Spho candle lamp is an admirable " table lamp." Sect. VII. OTHEll VARIETIES OP CANDLES. 643. The Chinese have a kind of candle about half an inch in diameter, which, in • Canton, is called a "lobstock." The wick is of cotton, wrapped round a small stick' or branch of the bamboo. The body of the candle is of white tallow; but the exter- rmal part, to the thickness of one thirtieth of an inch, consists of waxy matter, coloured rred. This covering of wax gives a considerable degree of solidity to the candle, and pprevents guttering, because it is less fusible than the tallow itself, and therefore a cup ;:is formed, which holds the melted tallow. ''4. Similar candles have been made at Munich, with wicks of light wood, covered imeatly with unspun cotton ; these have been found to burn very steadily, and not to run : i'but they are troublesome to snuff, which must be done with sharp scissors, and they do iinot appear to possess advantages to counterbalance so great an inconvenience. 645. Candles with hollow ivichs have been tried, which appear to promise the advantage •of giving more light by a supply of air to the centre of the flame, in the same way as in ■Argand's lamp, but they are little used. ' 646. Cobler's candles are made with double wicks. It was suggested by Dr. Franklin : that the flames of two candles brought almost into contact, gave more light than when liboth were separate. Upon this principle, double wicked candles give a great deal of 647. Perfumed candles are made in Paris. The tallow, piirified, is run into buckets of water distilled from aromatic herbs, as lavender, th)Tne, rosemary, &c. The tallow and ■water are then beaten together, and, after forty-eight hours, they are separated by means of a water-bath, when the tallow will be found to have imbibed the perfumes. The wicks •are first coated with wax and spermaceti, and a sinall quantity of gum Arabic; wax and alum is incorporated with the tallow before it is poured into the moulds. Effectually to prevent ■ them from greasing the fingers in handling them, they are covered over with a varnish of :glover's size, gum, and alum. Candles made in this manner are nearly equal to wax. 648. Before the duty on candles was repealed in 1831, tallow chandlers were obliged to take out an annual licence; they were likewise subject to a variety of revenue regida- ' tions, and private persons were not allowed to make candles, which checked experiments; but at present every one may make their own candles. 649. The flambeau differs from the taper in having several wicks, generally four, which ] are covered with wax. These are first made into small tapers, which, being laid together, I more wax is poured round them to unite them together. They are afterwards smoothed by rolling. 650. Torches are also used for similar purposes, but are lights of an inferior kind. The ancient torch appears to have been formed of wooden slips, or straight branches bound together by rope, the inside being filled with flax, tow, or other fibres, impregnated with i pitch, rosin, wax, oil, or other inflammable substances. Some modification of a construc- tion of this kind is still used in different countries. Sect. VIII. MANAGEMENT OP CANDLES, AND COMPARISON BETWEEN THOSE OF WAX AND TALLOW. 651. To understand this well, it is necessary to enter rather minutely into the subject of the qualities of the several materials, and some circumstances respecting the combustion of candles. The difference between the burning of wax and tallow candles depends, in a great measure, upon the different dcgi-ees of fusibility of these two substances ; tallow being fusible with less heat than wax. If we observe a candle when it is burning, we find that a cup is formed round the wick, the rim of which is ovving to the wax or tallow