656 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. three or four years ; but then the saccharine part gradually disappears, probably by the decomposition mduced by the slow fermentation. If it possess much richness; it will remain with scarcely any sensible change during twenty or thirty years, or as long as the cork duly performs its office, or resists decay. When the bottles are filled, set them by uncorked till the morning; let the corks be driven in very tightly ; some tie them down with strong wire or twine, and secure them with melted rosin or other material of that nature. Tlie bottles should be laid on their sides. Both casks and bottles should be Irequently looked at, and if any hissing be perceived, the bungs or corks should be removed, and replaced in a day or two, otherwise the vessels may burst. In winter they should be kept rather warm, or free from frost; and in summer in a cool place. j3696. In making cyder for the common use of the farm house, few of the foregoing rules are accurately attended to. The flavour of the liquor is a secondary consideration with the farmer, whose first object is to obtain a large quantity at a small expense. The common practice is sufficiently well calculated to answer this purpose ; the apples are usually gathered and ground as soon as they become moderately ripe, the pommage is pressed, and one-fourth of warm water is often added to the juice, which is most frequently conveyed from the press immediately to the cellar. A violent fermentation in the casks soon commences, and continues until nearly the whole of the saccharine matter is decomposed. The casks are filled up and stopped early in the succeeding spring, and no further attention is paid or required. The liquor thus prepared should be kept at least a year before it is drunk ; it may be kept from two to five or six years in the cask, according to its strength. It is generally harsh and rough, but rarely acetous. 3697. Ct/der may be made in stnall quantities as well as in large, and the superabundant apples of a moderately large garden may be economically applied to this use without much trouble. The fruit should be picked Fig. 6GG. / free from stalks, and laid in heaps for three weeks, to mellow. A tub (f g. 566.) thicker and stronger than usual, eighteen inches in diameter, and iron-hooped, may serve for a crushing trough, and the apples may be made into pommage with a heavy bruiser of hard wood, not unlike that used by a street paviour. The common clothes press made very strong may be em- ployed for pressing, and the lower pressing board must be placed in a tin tray to collect the juice, from which it must run down by a pipe into a vessel to receive it. The apples must be put into hair cloth,' or canvas bags, to be pressed. A few must be pounded at a time, and the pressing must be done gradually, and not by using much force at once. The fermentation may be carried on in a cask ; and a hole may be bored in the head of the cask, which can be stopped with a bottle cork, through which the juice to he fermented may be poured in; and also a cock must be placed near the bottom to draw it off by. The fermentation may be promoted by using some new yeast mixed with a little honey and flour warmed ; put this into a muslin bag, insert it through the hole of the cask, and keep it suspended by a string, but do not suffer it to reach the bottom of the vessel. In warm weather the fermentation should be carried in the shade about 60° ; in cold weather the cask should be placed near the fire. September is the best season for the operation. The fermentation should not be carried far ; but only till the excessive sweetness of the apple is removed, and has given way to a vinous taste ; five or six days is generally sufficient. When the liquor ceases to ferment, or very little, it must be drawn off, and it is to be strained and received into smaller clean casks, which, when full, are to be bunged and kept for draught: after remaining for two or three weeks the liquor may be bottled, when it will soon be ripe. Cyder made in cold weather takes longer time to clear, and sometimes requires to be fined. One man pound- ing the fruit, and another to press and assist, will produce ten gallons of juice in a day. The juice should not be allowed to remain long in the tin tray, lest it should corrode the metal. The pounding and pressing should be as complete as possible. In this manner, in the early part of the cyder season, says Mr. Donovan, " the whole process, from the pressing out the juice to the bottling of the cyder, may be completed in the space of four days; and in three other days it may be fit for drinking, of a delightful flavour, highly effei-vescent, and almost perfectly transparent." Those who add the cyderkin to the cyder usually add brandy with a little sugar, in the proportion of a gallon of brandy to a hogshead, to supply the strength ; but if pure juice only be used, this is not necessary. 3698. Although in Herefordshire and Devonshire they are very solicitous about the quality of the apples from which cyder is made, Mr. Donovan is of opinion that this quality is of less consequence than is commonly supposed ; and tliat good cyder may be made from a mixture of all kinds of apples. Eight gallons of juice may be obtained from one hundred weight of apples, which will consist of 600 in number if the apples are large, and of six times that number when of the smallest size.