HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. 57 'i!hap. \l. It was much in use among the ancients, but their paintings in this way were not highly iinished. Several considerable pictures have been executed in fresco by the great masters ; Hiut this art is little practised at present, although its durability makes it desirable that it hbould be employed in certain situations. 240. Encaustic painting was a method practised by the ancients, and which, though it laas been tried with some success on the Continent, is not used in this country, although a .■;w successful experiments have been made here. It consists in making use of wax as a i-ehicle for the colours, sometimes mixed with oil, to render it more liquid, and then by leeating the work with a chafing dish the tints are blended. This kind of painting has uurability to recommend it. SuBSECT. 9.—Bronzing. 241. Bronzing is a term applied to a common method of painting woUd or iron work, or rrticles of plaster of Paris, such as busts, statues, &c. so as to imitate bronze. Real bronze icquires in time a coat of a dark green colour, owing to oxidation : but any parts of such pronze that may happen to be exposed to rubbing of any kind will have this crust worn ifff, and be made to assume a bright metallic colour. In bronzing, this effect is imitated. IThe first part of the process is to paint the whole over of the dark green just mentioned, »Fhich is done by a mixture of Prussian blue, yellow ochre, and verditer ground in oil. When two or three coats of this are nearly dry, but not quite, being still a little sticky, or, as 11 is technically named, tacky, a powder, called bronze powder, is rubbed by means of a linen ^aad on all the edges or places liable to be worn bright had the articles been really of jnronze and exposed to friction. Bronze powder is sold in the shops on purpose ; and is iiaade by grinding Dutch foil and mosaic gold, or precipitated copper, to powder. When rpell done, the imitation of ancient bronze is very complete. SuBSECT. 10. — Paperhanging. 242. Tlie most nsiial mode of finishing the walls of apartments at present, is by covering hhem with ornamental printed papers, of which there is a great variety, from \d. per yard i>o several shillings. The art was borrowed originally from the Chinese, by whom it has ■oeen practised from time immemorial. The colours employed are of distemper : a ground -s first laid, and the patterns are printed by means of blocks and various colours, as in Malico printing. The variety in the patterns of printed papers is endless, and is con- idnually changing with fashion ; gilding is frequently introduced in rich papers. The F?rench have long excelled us in the designing of papers for this purpose, as they have in ililmost all architectural ornaments ; and it is lamentable to see that the best papers in our ^bhops in the present day are imported from France. Some of these contain figures and ^Landscapes of great merit ; and the ornaments and flowers are exquisite. There are l everal modes of manufacturing papers for hanging. Paper with a satin ground is said 00 be produced by rubbing on the ground powdered French chalk (a variety of steatite), Kvith a hard brush, till the lustre is produced. Flock paper is made by printing the pattern on the paper with some kind of varnish, and strewing this over with what is icrmed flock, produced by cutting to a fine powder woollen rags or pieces of cloth, by nneans of machinery. This operation causes the pattern to appear as if it were cloth cut juut and fixed on. In some of the best papers, the patterns are partly painted by hand. ?<Jome paper, finished with varnish, wUl bear washing, which is useful in places where it S8 liable to be much soiled: but the gloss has an unpleasant appearance, and such papers lue not fit for elegant apartments. SuBSECT. 11. — Sun-blinds. 243. Sun-blinds are, in many situations, very necessary for keep- irng the apartments cool in summer; and for protecting the curtains, rcarpets, and other inside furniture, from the sun's rays, which are irjijurious to colours. They can scarcely be considered as ornamental ir.n an architectural point of view ; but they are tolerated on accoimt iit)f their great utility. They are placed either on the outside or inside nbf the sash : but are most effective in the first mode, because the sash land glass are thus protected from the heat, ahd of course the air in the s^partment kept of more equal temperature. The simplest kind of outside blinds consists merely of a piece of cloth fixed to the top of the ^window, and either hanging down, or stretched out a little way at the 1 bottom by some support. This is the most usual sun-blind employed lin Italy, and may be seen in pictures of that country, generally resting nt bottom on a balcony often filled with llowers. They are usually iimadcof striped cloth or canvass, and hence have a very picturcs(iue