MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. 1149 ( HAP. II. in padding tills so Brmly that it shall not become uneven, which would be injurious by giving unequal '"^gI'^O^Frost shoes are very necessary, .-ind have the heels turned up, the turned up part being made with au edge'; calkins are apt to be soon worn, and are therefore insufficient. , , . ... 68 )1 T/if sandal shoe is a very useful invention to supply temporarily the loss of a shoe until one can be nrocured For want of a provision, horses' feet have been seriously injured in travelling over stony ground. The best is that made by Mr. Percival, consisting of an iron shoe bound on with leather straps. Sect. VII. HAIR OF THE HOKSE. 6822. Every spring and autumn the horse sheds his hair. Na.ture suits the thickness of his coat to the season. When winter approaches, the short hair of summer is cast for lono-er hair as warmer clothing: and, when the summer heat returns, this is exchanged for'a lio-hter covering composed of shorter hair. But as a sleek and glossy smooth skin is desiredln the artificial state in which the horse now is, this natural change is counteracted by keeping the horse in ^arm stables, which has the effect of perpetual summer. The hair is not cast all at once, but comes out gradually: that of the mane does not change so rapidly, and that of tlie tail is always changing, a few hairs coming out at a time: the mane of carriage horses is made to lie on one side. It is the practice of grooms to pull out the hair fro'm the inside of the ears ; but this should not be done, as this hair wards off the entrance of insects and cold winds : neither should they cut off the few long straggling hairs that appear about the face, as they are a sort of whiskers to keep off flies. 6823. Some degree of trimming is generally necessary to all horses required to look well; but this demands a dexterous groom, as, when done, the marks of the scissors should never be visible. The practice of using them on his coat should be avoided as much as possible ; and it is only necessary where the coat is very long and rough. The hair of the fetlocks is generally trimmed short, which is done that the legs may dry quickly after washing. 6824. Docking the tail is very generally practised in this country, and is done partly through the inconvenience of the tail to the rider; but, as this member was probably given to keep off flies, the horse suffers much from the want of it when he is out at grass. Nicking the tail is a cruel operation which is now going much out. Sect. VIII. DISEASES OF THE HOBSE. 6825. The diseases of horses are numerous, as the present artificial mode of his life and his complicated structure might lead one to expect. External diseases and cases of unsoundness are much more easy to understand than those which are internal, which can only be conjectured from symptoms. In general there are two, obvious indications of disease — a refusal to work, and a refusal to feed. Lameness speaks for itself; but there may be something the matter with his collar or part of his harness. Every good coach- man, or person habitually employed about a stable, should acquire some skill in detecting the symptoms of disease, and should know how to treat the most ordinary complaints, or at least till a veterinary surgeon can be procured : but it should be borne in mind that the difficulty of treating a sick horse is not only as great, but in one respect greater, than that of treating a human patient, since he cannot, like the latter, describe his sensations. 0826. Before the veterinary art became a distinct profession, the ignorant farrier, pretend- ing groom, or shoeing-smith, were all that the owners of horses had to consult; and the fate of these animals was commensurate with the wretched treatment they were subjected to. These men, without any scientific education, often committed the gi-eatest blunders, though they frequently performed cures, as is the case with other quacks. But the esta- blishment of schools for the veterinary art has disseminated an improved practice, and spread good practitioners through the country : and now that the diseases of the horse have been the subject of scientific investigation, it would be imprudeut not to avail one's self of the advanced state of knowledge. By a subscription of two guineas a-year to the Veterinary College at Camden Town, the best veterinary assistance perhaps in the world can be procured, or an opinion obtained on a horse's soundness on which reliance may be placed. In many other places, now, skilful veterinary practitioners are to be found ; and, where their assistance is to be procured, no servant ought to assume more than his proper degree of responsibility in the management of a sick stable, nor should his master be so imprudent as to trust him in serious cases. But, as such desirable assistance is not always within reach, it would be well that the proprietors of horses should acquire as much knowledge on the subject as possible, as a check upon others.