Chap. V. BIRDS. 399 '>04S The wild swan is i/rcgarious ami migratory. It visits Britain occasionally, and may be seen resting in tloclis of five or six, but does not remain here long. It is rather smaller and more slender in its form than the tame species. The flesh of the wild swan is not only eatable, but is held in much consideration in the north of Europe and in A.iiiGric*i. '>0-i9 The tame sivan is chiefly esteemed with us as a favourite ornament in sheets of va'terin parks: for its flesh is ill flavoured except when they are young, or cygnets, which resemble the pigeon in taste. It is remarkable, however, that the Romans consi- dered the swan as a great delicacy, while the flesh of the goose was reckoned by them impure and mdigestible. , ^ . • r ; ; j- i, '>050. In former times the stvan was served vp at ever;/ great feast in J^ngland a? a dish of "state, when the elegance of the table was measured by the size and quantity of the cheer: cygnets were fattened at Norwich for Christmas fare. Sect. XI. GOOSE (^Anser domesttcus). 2051. Tlie goose is pretty generally spread over the globe, being met with in Arabia, Persia, North America, Lapland, and Iceland. The colour of the wild goose is uniformly grey, and the taste of the flesh strong and fishy. It frequents the fens of Lincolnshire and other places, and breeds there in the summer ; they appear there in large flocks, and are migratoi-y. They are easily tamed and domesticated, which produces a change in the colour of their plumage, no two being then exactly alike, though the predominating colour is white. 2052. The varieties of the goose are very great in different parts of the world ; but we have only one species in England in common use, which appears to be an English breed. The Chinese and the Canadian goose are kept sometimes, but only for ornament, in pleasure gi'ounds. 2053. The best geese in England are probably to be found on the borders of Suffolk and 'Norfolk, and in Berkshire ; but the largest flocks are kept in the fens of Lincolnshire and Cambridge, many persons there having 1000 breeders. Geese, being aquatic birds, thrive ■best when they have access to water, as in fens, marshes, and grassy margined pools. iVast droves are sent from the fens every year, to be fattened by the Loudon poulterers. IBesides these, prodigious numbers are kept all over the kingdom, on commons, in farm- ijards, and by cottagers. Part of these provide themselves with food in the summer and liarvest, when they are turned in among the stubble to fatten upon the scattered grain. 2054. The natural food of wild geese is chiefly of an anunal nature ; but the tame goose ffeeds upon vegetables, as grass, corn of all kinds, with garden vegetables, raw or boiled. TThey are easily fattened by allowing them plenty of food and liberty. In some places it lis the custom to cram them ; and cruel methods are employed in France and Germany to pproduce large and fat livers, from which are prepared the celebrated pules. We are iiinformed by Mrs. TroUope, that '• There is one much-prized delicacy that never fails at Wienna ; the pate de foie gras seems to be considered as indispensable. Out of twenty-one diinner tables I have missed it but at two ; and as, moreover, no ball supper is considered aas perfect without it, the number of invalided geese must be greater than it is agi-eeable to k:.hink of" Some prefer a goose entirely fattened on the stubble, granting it to have been jDreviously in good case : an over-fattened goose is too oily for delicate flavour. When rt'equired to be fattened, feeding-houses are best, -where they may be given oats, peas and tv)ean meal, pollard mixed with the skimmed milk with plenty of water, and clean beds of K.traw. 2055. The goo.ie, though apparently a stupid bird, is roused by the least noise in the night., i md the immediate cackling converse which they begin to hold in the approach of appre- lended danger is considered as a valuable safeguard, a memorable example of which was iheir saving the Capitol of Rome from an attack by the Gauls. 2056. Though greatly relished by some persons as food, it is not a universal favourite. The ■ lesh abounds in flavour, and is considered to be highly stimulant. When young it is oonder, but in general it is only adapted for good stomachs and powerful digestion, and bbould be sparingly used by the sedentary and weak, and by persons subject to cutaneous ILiseases. Its strong flavour is by some thought to require modification by stuffing with aage and onions, though others relish it only when this is not demanded. From the larious parts, however, many savoury dishes are prepared, for which we refer to the eeceipts on that subject. The fat is reckoned peculiarly subtile, penetrating, and rc- olvent, and is usually preserved for domestic applications. 2057. The average weight of the large kind of geese is from nine to fifteen pounds, and nstances have been known of their weighing thirty pounds when fully fattened ; but the mailer breeds are preferable for the table.