350 HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. grease from the inside surface of saucepans in which animal substances have been cooked ■ or a weak solution ot potash, boiled in saucepans that require cleansing, will render hard scouring unnecessary, which is sure to wear off the tinning. In Book y. "On the Materials of Household Furniture," we have shown the nature ot tmplalc, ot which saucepans are formed, and the great injury they suffer by being fre- quently scoured with sand, which wears off the tinning rapidly, exposes the iron foundation and causes the rust to eat it in holes. When any scouring is requisite, some soft powder should be used, as that of Bath brick and whiting, and sand as little as possible .Sauce- pans, after being cleaned, should be well dried by the fire before being put away and the shelves on which they are put should be in a dry part of the offices. If iron saucepans and kettles remain long in a damp place, they will be spoilt by rust, if copper by verdi- gris. ■' 1678. The corrosion on copper, called verdigris, must be removed, in the first instance, by the application of sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), and afterwards with that of whiting rubbed on with a flannel ; copper saucepans tinned should always be carefully examined before they are used. If the tinning of a saucepan be worn away and verdigris formed on the copper beneath, it is unsafe to use it for any purpose whatever, until it has been re-tinned: there have been fatal instances of poison unintentionally given to whole parties at a time, through food cooked in copper vessels from which the tinning had been worn off, and the verdigris formed on the uncovered copper. 1679. Tea-kettles should be well rinsed out every morning before they are filled with water. This rinsing is needful to clear away sediment the water in boiling may leave ; but the incrustation formed by chemical action within the kettle on every side cannot easily be removed. 1C80. The outside of metallic kitchen utensils kitchen-maids pride themselves often on keeping highly po- lished. That they are bright to look upon is very agreeable, especially as it may be inferred that the inside of the vessels corresponds in cleanliness with that of their exterior. lJut tliis pride will be carried too far, if it cause the met.il to bo worn off with needless rubbing, or retard, by the time it occupies, more important business in the kitchen. The soot adhering to the back and sides of kettles and saucepans ought to be brushed or scraped oil', and the fronts, lids, and spouts polished daily; but to polish the whole exterior surface of vessels daily used over smoky fires would be waste of time. 1G81. Till' oulsiilf of cupper coal-sknttles are best cleaned with a polishing paste bought at the oil shops in London, and similar to the composition with which the brass-work on harnesses and carriages is cleaned. The same composition may be easily made of one ounce of spirits of hartshorn, half a pint of vinegar, one ounce of rotten stone, and one ounce of soft soap. The soap and rotten stone are to be mixed first together ; the vinegar and hartshorn must be afterwards added. 1682. Iron coal hods may be occasionally done over with a black varnish, which may be purchased at the oil shops, and which wiU make them last twice as long. 1683. Steel knives and forks are cleaned on either ash or deal boards, and sometimes with boards covered with buck leather, as being less likely to wear away the steel of the articles rubbed on them. The leather which covers knife-boards should be prepared by having a coating of mutton fat melted and laid on it with a piece of flannel. The dust of a Flanders brick is then sprinkled over the leather and rubbed well in ; and the grease, when a knife is passed over it, ccising to come through, is the test of the leather being fit for use. 1684. An uncovered board should have very little brickdust sprinkled over it at once, lest, in rubbing the knives over it, distinct and visible scratches should be given to them. Knife-cleaning is, in fact, done by scratching the surface, but in so fine, regular, .and uniform a mjinner as to brighten the whole surface. 1685. The height of the knife-board is another point to be noticed. It should be such as to allow the cleaner to incline his body towards it. Holding a knife in each hand —their backs towards each other — the cleaner should stand in front of the board, and. Laying each blade flat upon it, he should De.ar equally on both, and rub them backwards and forwards, first on one side and then on the other, until a clean bright surface be restored to each. It is easier to clean two together than one alone. To give a good edge to the knives, the cleaner must scarcely let the blades touch the boards while he expands his arms, but must bear upon them more forcibly in drawing them together again. The edge given by this mode is better than that brought by the steel sharpener. 1686. Forhs are quickly cleaned by running the prongs sever.al times into a tub filled with a mixture of gravel, brickdust, or sand and hay or moss, kept a little damn and pressed firmly down. When clean, the prongs will require polishing witli a thin bit of stick shaped like a knife .and covered with leather. Knife- boards are often spoiled by the backs of knives .and forks being cle.aned upon them. This might be prevented, if a thong of buck heather were n.ailed at one end of the bo.ard, .and the loose end held in the h.and while the forks were rubbed up and down until perfectly clean and polished. It is also desirable to have a thick square brush nailed to the board, over which both knives and forks are passed, in order to remove the dust partly from them, but which must be more efl'ectually done by the use of the knife-cloth. 1687. hi some houses lathes arc used for cleaning knives, by which, in ten minutes, as many may be done as would in the common way occupy the cleaner for one hour;'but the advantage of celerity is counterbalanced by the injury done to the blades, which, in one year, will be as much worn away as knives that had been in use for many years, .and cleaned in the usual way. IC8S. When knives imd forks have been cleaned, either on the hoard or bv the lathe, they must bd wiped free from the brickdust with the knifc clotli. The handles of knives and forks require attention, few things being more disagreeable than to feel the h.andles gritty or greasy. 1689. Ivorr/ handles should be washed with a bit of sponge dipped in soap and water or with a little spirits of wine and water : when a red wine or a fruit stain shows itself on the handles, it may be scraped off with a sharp knife without injuring the haft. 1G90. Silver and plated handles are cleaned like other plate and plated wares. 1691. Ebony hafts should be cleaned with a little Florence oil, carefully wiped off. 1692. Knives and forks always, after being used, should have the blades and prongs dipped in warm water, to wash away whatever may adhere to them; afterwards t^i. y 1