l-'HAP. I. 65 ON HEAT. nmong the parts of the fluid, and ascending and descending currents established, until the il-hole has received the same temperature. In the case of cooling, the motions will be itimilar; the surface will cool first, and this water will descend: the same will happen to rt'hat arrives at the top, which will also descend when it is cooled, and so on till the whole i i equal. From this we may see the reason why water is sooner heated or cooled in a hhallow than in a deep vessel: the currents upwards and downwards having less space to r.-averse, the change of the whole is sooner effected. 288. It is obvious, from what has been said, that water cannot be heated, except in a very Treat length of time, by applying heat to its surface. This may be easily shown by a simple experiment. Put some cold water into a deep glass tumbler, and hold just over the sur- aace an iron heater made red hot; although the water at the surface will receive some ideat, this will not extend downwards, and the whole will be scarcely warmed in a very oDng time. Even if some ether be poured upon the surface, and set fire to, it will biu-n illll away, and yet very little heat will be commtmicated to the water. To heat water effectually, therefore, the heat must be applied at the bottom of the vessel oontaining it; little effect is produced even if it be applied to the sides of the vessel. 289. As it is very important to have a clear idea of various circumstances respecting the •■•oiling of water, it will be worth while to make the following easy experiment. Fill a ■Florence flask (one of those in which salad oil is imported) about half full of water, and ililace it over a spirit lamp, or chafing-dish of charcoal. In a few minutes, very minute "uubbles will rise from the bottom to the surface; these consist of air that is always com- liiined with water in a natural state, and which, being rendered elastic by the heat, sepa- late from the water. A motion will soon be perceived in the water, which will be more evident if a few particles of dust be thrown into it; this motion is occasioned by the uurrents which we have already mentioned. At the same time it will be seen that some luubbles of steam form at the bottom where the heat is applied, and rise upwards; but nnany of these, instead of arriving at the sui-face, will disappear in the middle, being con- densed again by the cold of the water in the upper part. A hissing or simmering will now be heard, owing to the foi-mation of the bubbles of steam ; the latter also increase in muantity, and agitate the water in their ascent, which is the cause of what is termed ebul- lAtion. At last this bubbling becomes rather violent, and much vapour rises from the uurface, which shows that the water is near to boiling. The vapour lastly becomes steam, and the ebullition is at its height. If the bulb of a thermometer be plunged into the water thus made to boil, the mercury rviU gradually rise till it reaches to 212° ; but it will rise no higher, however long it may loe kept there, or however the fire may be urged; by which we find that water cannot be laeated in an open vessel to more than 212°. The steam that rises, if examined close to bhe water, will show the same degree of heat. 212 degrees of Fahrenheit's thermometer ^which is that commonly used in England) is called the boiling point of water: and as soon las this fluid is heated in a vessel without a cover, or with one loosely fitted on, up to 212°, It is converted into steam, as we have seen in the experiment. It is necessary also to observe here, that, though 212° be the boiling point of water, it is jQOt that of all liquids: thus spirits of wine boils at 176° ; ether at 96° ; while, on the )t>ther hand, turpentine requires 316°, and mercury even 662°. Salt water requires more toeat to make it boil than fresh; and hence, when it is wished for some purposes to make •▼ater several degrees hotter than 212°, salt is added to it. Syrup requires 220° to make tt boil. Another fact may be mentioned. The substance of which the vessel is made has some unfluence upon the boiling points of a liquid : thus water boils at 212° in a metallic vessel, lout in one of glass it will not boil till it is heated to 214° : water, therefore, can be made Vl° hotter in a glass vessel than in one of metal. 290. The boiliyig of every liquid is merely the conversion of it into the state of elastic vapour by means of heat; and since various fluids have different degrees of volatility, they, of course, liooil at different degrees of temperature. Thus, sulphuric ether boils at 98° ; alcohol at 1176° ; water at 212° ; turpentine at 316° ; sulphuric acid at 546° ; and mercury at 662° ; ^Jcarccly any two liquids agreeing exactly in their boiling points. Of this fact, advantage -s taken in various processes; for instance, when two liquids, as alcohol and water, having lifferent degrees of volatility, are mixed together, they are easily separated by a heat :!.hat shall raise one in vapour but not the other; and this forms the foundation of the art >bf distillation. 291. But the pressure of the atmosphere modifies in a considerable degree the volatility nf liquids; for if that pressure be more considerable than usual, which is indi- sjated by the barometer being high, it requires more than the ordinary degree of heat to raise the liquid into vapour. In speaking of the boiling points, therelbre, we always sup- wose that the pressure of the atmosphere is that which most usually prevails, or which iKeeps the barometer up to thirty inches. Water at this degree of pressure boils at 212°; tit)ut if the pressure be considerably less, and the barometer fall down very low, water F