INSTRUCTION FOR YOUNG COOKS. Chap. I. 877 Fat meat requires more roasting than lean. The usual allowance of time is a quarter of an hour to each pound of meat; but Dr. Kitchener recommends twenty minutes to he given, and it is desirable to add five minutes to this allowance when cold weather affects meat, or when meat is too recently killed. 4919. Other details respecting roasting must here be noticed. Basting, broivning, froth- ing, and dredging, are each of importance to the success of roasting, whether of meat, poultry, or game. Basting is the act of moistening meat while before an open fire, with certain ingredients which assist the roast, prevent its juices from being dried up, the meat from becoming insipid, and its surface from being scorched. Meat should be basted about every ten minutes at first, and towards the close of the roasting still more frequently. Beef aii^ mutton, while roasting, yield generally sufiicient dripping, with which they may he basted. Veal and poultry being of a dry nature require an addition of butter, dripping, or suet, in order to have a sufiicient basting for them. To some meats flavoured bastings are used. Mutton and Iamb are sometimes, basted with claret and sweet herbs and butter. A hare is basted usually with salt and water or with milk for the first half hour ; afterwards this is poured away, and butter substituted. For basting pig Dr. Kitchener recommends cream and melted butter. For veal and other white meats, the yolks of six eggs, grated biscuits, and the juice of an orange. For all common roast, butter, clarified suet, or dripping are the most usual bastings. 4920. Browning meat should commence when the meat is half done by stirring the fire and making it brisker. When a good brown is not obtained, the appearance of the joint will be improved by the addition of a glaze. 4921. Frothing is done a few minutes only before the meat is served. As soon as the steam of the roast draws towards the fire, showing that the meat is sufiiciently roasted, the cook should lightly, but uniformly, dredge with flour the whole surface of the joint, and immediately baste it with butter or dripping. The briskness of the fire .should be increased by stirring, and in three minutes the meat should be taken down and served. Poultrt/, game, veal, and lamb, should be frothed with butter ; for beef or mutton, dripping answers as well. The object of frothing is to plump up the skin of meat or poultry, by which the appearance of the joint is much improved. 4922. The dredgings used in frothing are sometimes composed of other ingredients besides flour, as a means of giving some particular flavour to the meat. Of dredgings, there are, — 1st, flour and grated bread ; 2d, sweet herbs, dried, powdered, and mixed with flour ; 3d, sugar finely powdered, and mixed with pounded cinnamon and grated bread; 4th, lemon-peel, dried, pounded, and mixed with flour ; 5th, fennel seed, corianders, cinnamon, and sugar, finely beaten and mixed with grated bread. Jn roasting joiiits of which the meat is thick, it is desirable that heat should be only gradually applied. But in broiling the case is difiei-ent; the quicker the process the better. Drying up the juices is to be avoided, as it hardens also the fibres of the meat; hence the degree of intensity of the fire must be attended to, and adapted to the particular kinds of meats about to be broiled. Beef and mutton, for instance, re- quire a brisker fire than veal or pork, fish or poultry. Uniform thickness of the steak or chop is desirable, that the whole may be equally done. Beef steaks should scarcely exceed in thickness half an inch. Mutton may be, without disadvantage, somewhat thicker. Salt should not be sprinkled on chops or steaks either before or while broiling, as it draws out the gravy. Pepper may be used, if approved. Steaks or chops. — When steaks or chops are broiled or fried, they should be turned with steak tongs. If a fork be used, it opens courses for the juices of the meat to escape from it. 492.3. Frying, like broiling, is a species of quick roasting done in an iron pan : in regard to the uniformity of the thickness of the steaks, and as to the degree of heat to be given to the different meats, nearly the same directions will serve as in broiling. In frying, the pan requires to be made hot by boiling in it either dripping, oil, or butter ; the substance to be dressed is put into this boiling liquid, the depth of which should not be sufficient to immerse it, but only to cover completely the bottom of the-pan, and to keep moist the surface of the meat. The latter should be frequently turned from one side to the other, and when nearly done, it may be more deeply browned by pressing it firmly for one or two seconds against the bottom of the pan. Fish is best fried in oil or lard. Meat is fried in beef dripping or suet.