321 ON CUTLERY. :hap. XVIII. other, and revolving upon their axis. Each cylinder has projecting rings of hard steel, the edges of which are grooved finely. The edges of the rings in the opposite cylinders overlap each other a little, as at b,fig. 510. by the rings of one cylinder falling between those of the other. If the edge of a knife be drawn from hilt to point between the cylinders at their junction, a good edge will be given to it by the action of the sharp grooves on the rings, Fig. aW. which act like a file. 1426. Westby's knife-sharpener differs from the last, in consisting of two sets of straight >ars opening to an angle, and having the insides grooved like a file: the knife to be iharpened is drawn between them, like the last. 1427. Scissors.—The beauty and elegance of polished steel is displayed to great ad- .'antage in the manufacture of the finer kinds of scissors. These are made of the best last steel, and are very highly polished. Frequently they are curiously and beautifully ■mamented by blueing and gilding with studs of gold, &c. Often the handles are of mother ■f pearl. The shanks of scissors are frequently ornamented with rich open work, or embossed figures, elegantly executed. Some of the filigree shank scissors at present in lashion are wrought with great labour and ingenuity, often occupying an industrious workman two or three weeks upon a single pair in boring and filing out the design. The blades are made separately, without any regard to their being in pairs ; they are "fterwards filed, and paired. Very large scissors have their blades only of steel. Of late last numbers of scissors of low prices have been made of cast iron, instead of cast steel ; md many of them do sufiiciently well for common purposes, but are not to be depended fpon either in their material or workmanship. 1428. Shears dififer from scissors in being made of one piece of metal only, the Two blades being connected together by a strong spring bent like a bow, whereas scissors lonsist of two pieces of metal moving upon a pin as a centre. The spring of shears muses them to open, and the force of the operator is only employed in shutting them to !ut. They are used in various operations, such as clipping the fleece from the bodies of living sheep. We shall say nothing of such shears as are used for dividing sheets and ■Loars of metal, some of which will cut through a piece of iron half an inch thick. 1429. Penknives. — A good penknife is an article of such indispensable necessity with idmost every individual in civilised society, that it is no wonder uncommon pains have oeen taken for the attainment of perfection in its manufacture. They are made nearly 11 the same way as table knives, but should be of the best cast steel. Some are let into lafts for desk knives ; others are made to shut, as clasp knives; and one, two, three, or i iore blades are included under the same handle, even to the knife with a hundred Jades, which is a mere curiosity. Besides the goodness of the blade, something depends ppon the form and size of the handle : if this be too large the knife will be clumsy and unmanageable ; while, on the other hand, if it be too small, the user will want that proper rommand of the blade which is essential in the dextrous and successful cutting of a mill. In general a handle rather fuller in the hand than those of most of the fancy nnives will be found preferable for use. If the blade be too broad it will not effect that Tj-aceful curve required in the pen : and it appears to be a good way to make the under iide of the blade next the pen a little curved, or rounded, that it may turn easily. In bae handles of penknives .still more scope is afforded for the exercise of ingenuity than l those of table knives; stags' horn, black horn, mottled or white horn, tortoise-shell, I'lother of pearl, are the most frequent substances employed, and endless are the forms aad modes of decoration, suited to all wants and all prices. 1430. The best cullery is manvfactured in London, chiefly by surgical instrument 3akers. They employ superior workmen, and reject, during any part of the process of k'C manufacture, such articles as from slight flaws, cracks or even any inferior quality in i"e steel, may be objectionable. Greater attention is likewise paid to the quality of the feel, and to the accuracy of hardening and tempering it. Although very many excellent nicies of this kind come from manufactories in the country, what is town-made is most 1 be depended upon. Sect. II. OBSERVATIONS ON SHARPENING CUTTING INSTRUMENTS IN GENERAL. 11431. After the blades of cutting instruments have been formed, an edge must be given •them; and the same process must be performed should that edge have been entirely •stroyed by use or accident. The first operation is grinding by means of grindstones, larser or finer, adapted to the nature of the various articles to be ground. Grindstones e made of a grit sandstone, and the best come from Newcastle, and from Bilston in Y