•FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 9G0 This fact has excited the emulation of the states contiguous to Saxony; and the in- habitants of Silesia, Bohemia, and Austria, have improved their flocks by the Merino. Sa.\.on wool is usually four or five inches long, but from its tenderness it admits of being easily broken down by carding to the proper shortness for clothing and fuUinir, which is from two to three inches, and is by much preferable for making fine broad cloths, kerseymeres, pelisse cloths, shawls, and such fabrics as require fine yarn. 5G41. Shetland wool. — A breed of sheep exists in the Shetland Isles, remarkable for the fineness of its wool. The sheep are small, and mostly without horns: they are suffered to run wild, and are not even sheltered in winter. In the summer they are con- fined to the hills, but after the crops are removed, they are allowed to range over the country; and when the ground is covered with snow, the animals come down to the shores, and feed upon sea-weeds. For fineness and softness the Shetland rivals even the Spanish wool, while, being at the same time of longer staple, it is employed for the best worsted mantifactures, as stuffs, the finest stockings, &c. The fleece attached to the skin is occasionally employed as an excellent fur. This peculiar breed is called beaver sheep. The colour of the wool is various, white, grey, brown, and black; but the quantity of this wool is not considerable. Some of the same breed occurs in a few places in the Highlands. 5642. Australian wool. — A new locality for fine wool has been found in Australia. The Spanish Merino sheep were carried to New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land, where the climate appears peculiarly well suited to them : they are multiplying pro- digiously ; the wool is of the first quality, and these countries promise, at no very distant period, to be the principal wool-growing places in the world. Already our imports from Australia exceed 4,000,000 lbs. per annum. It is said that no wool spins so well, in con- sequence of the length of its staple and its softness ; it is also better for combing purposes than any other description, and is at present altogether consumed in the finest worsted goods ; most of those beautiful and soft woollen fabrics which go by the name of Indianas, Merinos, and Challis, and which make such display in the shops of our haberdashers, are manufactured from this fine Australian wool. Sect. III. MANUFACTURE OF CLOTHS AND OTHER "WOOLLEN FABRICS. 5643. The term cloth, in its general sense, includes aU kinds of stuff's woven or manu- factured on the loom, whether their threads be of wool, hemp, flax, or cotton, or any other material: but it is more peculiarly applied to those which are made of woollen threads. These difl^er in appearance considerably from cotton cloth. In the latter, the threads are distinctly visible ; but in a piece of new woollen cloth, they are completely concealed by what is termed the nap or pile of the cloth, and it is only after the nap is worn off", that they are discerned, when the cloth is said to be thread-bare. 5644. The manufacture of cloth requires, as we have stated, the short or carding ivool, the elasticity and contractility of which renders the cloth susceptible of the peculiar treat- ment of the fulling, felting, and teasling operations, to raise and regulate the nap or pile ; and the quality which distinguishes cloth from all other manufactures, and which renders it peculiarly suitable for elegance and warmth in the clothes made of it, are the compact- ness and density it acquires from fulling. Cloths are either superfine, second, or coarse. 5645. A description of the mode of making superfine cloth maj' serve for the whole, that of the inferior sorts diff^ering little, except in the coarse and less delicate modes of per- forming the same operations. 5646. The first operation is to clean the wool thoroughly. For this purpose, being taken out of the bale, it is first picked, to clear it from the pitch which adheres to it, and from other extraneous substances. It is then scoured, by boiling it in three parts water and one of urine, from which it is afterwards taken out and rinsed in running water; or it is soaked in urine, and rinsed frequently with clean water ; it is then fit to be committed to the dye-house. After dyeing, it is again washed and dried, and then beaten with rods, to free it from the loose dye-stuff"; but this operation is now generally performed by a wool-mill, or, as it is called, a rvilly, which, by means of revolving spikes, opens up and clears from sandy and other loose impurities the matted fleeces supplied by the wool- stapler. 5647. 77ic roool, thus prepared, is now spread loose on a floor, and olive-oil, in the pro- portion of three pounds to twenty pounds of wool, evenly sprinkled over it, and beat into it with very heavy rods, to facilitate the future carding operation. But previously to the proper carding, it is carried to the scribbling engine. Scribbling is merely a loose species of carding the oiled wool. The scribbling engine is a machine composed of several wooden cylinders of various sizes, covered with teeth or wire of different degrees of fineness, and bent and hooked in opposite directions. These are combined in a strong wooden frame, and so fitted as just to touch and work