Chap. IV. FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES WITHOUT PERCHES. 1119 6658. Fig. 876. is a small light carriage, having the body brought very near to the ground, extremely convenient for invalids. Its form is borrowed from one of the street cabs, but it is larger and more elegant. 6659. Of Hackney cabs, fig. 877. is an example of the usual construction, which is found very compact and convenient. Fig. 878. is another example, in the form of a small chariot 6660. The droitzschka, or, as it is commonly called, droshj, is a Russian carriage, fig. 879., being the most common vehicle for hire in the streets of Petersburgh and Moscow. It is de- scribed by Mr. Barrow as a very low four-wheeled carriage, the body of which is near the ground ; it is, in fact, a narrow bench on wheels, at the hinder part of which is a small back, about as high as the middle of a man's body, and against which he leans, sit- ting straddling across the bench, with his legs straight down on each side, as he would sit on horseback. If a second person be in the drosky, he sits on the same bench sideways, with nothing to rest his back against. In front of all is the driver with his legs also across it, and separated from the person next to him by a small iron bar about six inches in height. The form of the droskies kept by private gentlemen is the same, but they are more orna- mental : they have padded seats and backs, and splashing leathers to keep off the dirt from the wheels. Mr. Barrow found these vehicles both unpleasant and dangerous, from the jolting and the difficulty of the rider keeping himself on the bench, which serves as a seat. A carriage bearing the same name is now built in this country ; but Mr. Adams observes, that " instead of its being similar to the Russian, it is rather a modification of the elliptic spring britzschka, by placing the passenger's seat nearly at the level of the hind axle, and sinkmg the central part of the body below the level of the axle for the legs." The Russian vehi- cle, however, appears to have sug- gested the great improvement of bringing the body of some of our new vehicles so low; and this may be seen well exemplified in our common four-wheeled hackney cabs. 6661. 77(c equi.rolal carriage is an invention of Mr. Adams, an eminent coach-builder. Considering the defects occasioned by having the fore and hind wheels of different sizes, he makes all his wheels of the same size; hence the name given to his carriages. By this construction, he equalises the friction of the wheels ; and to enable them to turn readily, without adopting the usual methods, he separates the fore wheels, with the driving seat, from the body of the carriage with the hind wheels, by vertical hinges,