l\p. I. SPINNING AND WEAVING. 953 -f'i?. T£0. ike of Alva, and the revocation of the edict of Nantes, that occasioned a great number Flemish weavers to take refuge and settle in this country. Weaving is performed by the aid of a machine called a loom, and the simplest kind, or lumon looms, vary but little as to their general structure, whatever may be the nature : the fabric they are intended to make ; the chief difference in those for weaving silk or 'ol consisting in the greater stability and strength of the latter, on account of the greater irseness and elasticity of the fibres and the thickness of the cloth woven. Great im- ivements have been made of late in looms, particularly in weaving cottons, niuslins, and ks; nevertheless, the old-fashioned common loom is still employed, particularly in italfields and other places, for weaving plain silks. 5605. The first operation in weaving is to extend the warp yarn in parallel Imes. This is effected by means of a contrivance called a warp-mill; and it is then rolled carefully round a thick roller in the loom {fig. 780. a), called the warp-beam, having a weight, c, sus- pended from it to keep the warp stretched. From this the warp, m m, forming the length of the piece, is stretched to another roller in the loom, called the cloth-beam, b, be- cause the cloth is wound upon it when completed. Every thread of the warp between the two beams passes through loops in two sets of vertical threads, stretched in frames called kiddles, d d and e e, which are connected by strings at bottom with two treadles, d and e, to be pressed up and do\\Ti by the weaver's feet. The use of these treadles is to se- parate the threads of the warp by raising and depressing each thread alternately, and thus make way for tthe weft to pass through, the two treadles being so united by a rope and pulley that rthe depression of one must cause the raising of the other. The weft is driven from one side to the other through this space, called the shed, by means of a. shuttle thrown from the lhand. The shuttle, fig. 781., is a small box pointed at both ends, and contains a small bobbin of cane, called the quill, having the weft wound on, and which runs oflf as the shuttle is thrown. No sooner is a thread of weft thrown by the motion of the shuttle than it is driven up close I to the last thread of weft by the blow of a comb-like apparatus called a batten (l, fig. ' 780.), which consists of a long narrow frame, with a number of slit pieces of reed, cane, I or wires, arranged perpendicularly, and so close that every thread of the weft passes 1 through two of them : this batten is suspended in a horizontal position by two vertical I laths which are movable like a pendulum, from a centre of motion at the top of the loom, F. The weaver placed on the seat, n, lays hold of this batten, and by pulling it • towards him forcibly, he strikes the last thrown thread of weft up to the cloth that is forming. When a certain number of threads of the weft are thus thrown by the shuttle, and brought up close by the batten and reed, so much cloth is made, and the cloth-beam is turned round to'wind it up; this beam is prevented from going back by a ratchet wheel and click fixed on the end. Thus the operation in working the loom for weaving plain cloth consists of three simple movements : 1. opening the thread, or separating the threads of the warp alternately to admit the shuttle, which is efifected by pressing the treadles that move the heddles; 2. throwing the shuttle by hand to form the weft; 3. pulling the batten and reed to strike home the weft, and again pushing it back to the heddles. The fineness, or rather the closeness of texture in cloth depends upon the number of laths or dents which the reed contains within a given space, and which of course determine the number of threads of warp in the same space. The yarn of the weft is always some- what finer than that of the warp, and the number of shoots of it in a given space must consequently always exceed the number of threads of warp in a similar space ; that is to say, a square inch of cloth must contain a greater number of threads of weft than of warp. 6 GOG. The perfection of weaving depends very much upon stretching the warp ekactly Fig. 781.