443 CUAP. VII. VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Sect. II. STAHCH. 2312. This principle, which is atso called Fecula, and the amylaceous principle from the Latin 'cimi/lum, is one of the most important in the vegetable kingdom, as it constitutes the principal' nutritious matter in all the farinaceous vegetables used as food. It is likewise chiefly owing to the starch of grain that malt is so well calculated for the purposes of brewing: in short, from its numerous uses, it is very necessary that we should be accu- rately acquainted with it. ... 2313. Starch is a substance ready formed by nature, and it exists m many plants ra the form of extremely minute globular or oval grains; but these are so small that they cannot be distinguished separately without the assistance of a very powerful microscope. These grains consist of a membrane inclosing the starchy or amylaceous matter; and it is said that they do not readily burst with the heat of the stomach, and that on this account all such substances, when used as food, ought to be boiled to produce this effect. "When cooked, farinaceous substances (those which abound in starch) constitute food that is mild, nutritious, easily digestible, and little stimulating ; consequently very fit for infancy, though not sufficiently strengthening for manhood. Starch is found in the roots of some plants, as potatoes; in the stems of others, as the palm from which sago is ex- tracted ; in the seeds of leguminous plants, as peas and beans ; but most of all in the seeds of com plants, and chiefly wheat: in all these it is very nearly the same, and is united in them with gluten, mucilage, and saccharine matter. To understand this, and some of the other important vegetable principles, a simple experiment may be made. — Get some flour, and, keeping it in the hand, knead it well in a basin of cold water, while another person pours gently some more water over it until the latter no longer runs off milky and turbid. The substance that remains now in the hand will be a tenacious elastic sort of paste called gluten, which we shall have occasion to describe afterwards. If the water in which the handful of flour had been worked, and which is milky-looking, be suffered to stand still for a few hours, a very white sediment will fall to the bottom ; this is the starch, which has been washed out of the flour. If the clear water standing over it be poured off, and boiled till it be nearly all evaporated, the thickened extract will be a mucilaginous substance a little sweet; and it will contain the mucilage or gum, and the saccharine matter of the flour. In this manner the several constituent principles of flour may he separated from each other for examination. 2314. Common starch, as it is found in the shops, is procured from wheat by a pi'ocess nearly similar to what we have just described, and is the pure fecula we are treating of; but our object at present is not to describe the mode of its manufacture ; this will be shown in Book XXII. " On the Laundry." The process for extracting the starch from any other vegetable is the same : they are all bruised and agitated in water, when the starch separates readily, and subsides; then, after standing some time, the clear water is poured off, and the starch is obtained. The starch procm-ed in this manner from potatoes is essentially the same as that from wheat, differing only in a few slight particulars. 2315. Starch, when pure, is very insipid, or without taste, and of a brilliant snow- white. It will not dissolve in water either cold or below 160°; but in water between 160° and 180°, it forms an imperfect solution, thickened into a gelatinous mass, which is the state in which it is employed for stiffening linen. On exposing dried starch to a temperature a little above 212°, it acquires a slight red tint, emits an odour like baked bread, and is slightly soluble in cold water. When roasted in a flat vessel it becomes brown, and is converted into a substance called British guvi, which is soluble in cold water, and used instead of gum by the calico-printers. Potato-starch answers best for this purpose. 2316. Starch, when decomposed, or separated by chemical means into its ultimate elements, is found to consist, like most vegetable matter, of oxygen, carbon, and hydrogen; and, although it is so very different from sugar in its ordinary properties, yet, as has been already observed, it differs but little from that substance in the proportion of its con- stituents. In consequence of this close analogy, starch is very easily converted into a kind of sugar, a fact the importance of which will be perceived when we come to the subject of brewing, where we shall find that the formation of malt depends upon the change of the starch of the barley into sugar during the process of malting. 2317. Starch has even been converted into this hind of sugar in considerable quantities hi/ a very simple chemical process, which consists merely in boiling it with a certain propor- tion of water and sulphuric acid. As this conversion is well calculated to illustrate some of the chemical changes which occur in several of the arts which we have to treat of, we give the details of the process in this place.