Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 779 salt is known to be a powerfal antiseptic, yet, according to the experiments of Sir John Pringle, it, like sugar, is only so in large quantities; this physician found that a small quantity, so far from preventing, promoted putrefaction ; and from this fact he concluded, that as we use salt at table in small quantity only, it helps digestion by softening and dis- solving our animal food. Its utility is strikingly exemplified in the avidity with which animals in a wild state, guided by natural instinct, seek for the salt pans of Africa and America, and in the difficulties they wiU encounter to reach them. The great desire that cattle and sheep have for salt is remarkable, and well known to farmers. Lord Somerville attributed the great health of his merinos to the salt with which they were supplied; in Spain the merinos have a ton annually to every 100 sheep. In the interior countries of Africa, the greatest of .ill luxuries is salt. A child there, according to Parkes, will sucli a piece of rock salt as if it were sugar. The poorer class of the inhabitants are, however, so very rarely indulged with this precious article, that to say a man eats salt with his victuals, is the same as saying he is a rich man. The long use of vegetable food creates so painful a longing for salt, that no words can sufficiently describe it. Salt among the ancients was the emblem of friendship and fidelity; also of the inviolability of compacts; hence it was used in all their sacrifices and covenants. At this day the Bedouin Arabs consider it in the same light; they have a great respect for bread and salt, and are accustomed to afiBrm or deny any thing by these substances. Hostile as they generally are towards strangers, yet, if they h.ive eaten salt with any one, it would be accounted the greatest of all crimes to rob him, or even to take the smallest article of his bag- gage. They never break any engagement made with the ceremony of exchanging bread and salt. If a stranger can contrive to oppose this alliance to their rapacity, he is safe among them even in the middle of the desert; the Arab with whom he has tasted them regards him as one of his own tribe. This feeling extends also to India; no natives will ever fight against those whose salt they have eaten. Considering the utUity of salt to be thus established, it may excite surprise why the long-continued use of salted provisions should give rise, as is well known, to diseases. But it has been observed by Dr. Paris, that the salt when it has combined with animal fibre in the case of salt meat is no longer to be considered as the condiment we have mentioned; and although chemistry cannot explain the cause of the difference, yet it is certain that flesh when salted is not so digestible as it was before salting. 4451. In the process of sailing, besides common salt, several other antiseptics are frequently employed to improve the meat; as saltpetre, sugar, vinegar, and spices. 4452. Saltpetre, called also nitre, is a salt which consists of nitric acid and potash; hence the chemical term is nitrate of potash. It is a natural production, and is found crystallised on the surface of the soil in certain countries and placet, particularly among old walls and spots that have been uninhabited. The surface of the ground is swept off frequently and the saltpetre contained in it is procured by mixing thewhole in water ; when the salt dissolves and the impurities have subsided, the former is obtained by evaporation. What is used in England comes from Bengal in a very impure state ; it is purified here; that wliich is of the best quality is in long trans- parent crystals. Its taste is sharp, bitterish, and cooling; it is possessed of a greater degree of antiseptic power than common salt. Sir John Pringle found that it exceeded the latter four times ; hence it is always an ingredient in making strong brines where the saline taste is to be avoided. When common salt alone is used, it is apt to give a greenish tinge to the meat; and those who are desirous of having the beef of a fine red colour, add a little saltpetre, which has the property of giving this colour ; but as this salt has also the effect of hardening the meat, and communicjiting a harsh taste, to correct these defects, some sugar or molasses is likewise added. Those who are desirous of the red colour without using saltpetre may give it by a little cochineal, which is perfectly harmless. 4453. Sal prunella, mentioned in receipts, is the same salt as saltpetre, only it has been melted over a fire, poured out and made up into cakes. 4454. Tke theory qf the preservation of meat iy means of alkaline salts does not appear to have been clearly explained. We know that they attract water, and that the existence of this fluid in meat accelerates its decomposition. When applied to meat, the water in the juices unites with them, and they become dissolved, which facilitates their entrance into the pores of the animal substance. The albumen of the meat being thus deprived of its water, is concentrated, and is less apt to putrefy ; hence salted meat may be more readily dried in the air than fresh meat. It Is generally understood that salting greatly impairs the nutritiousncss of meat. There can be little doubt that the action of long-continued salt is to corrugate and harden the fibrin, rendering it somewhat less easily digestible ; but by a few days' sailing only, probably its nutritive properties are scarcely, if at all, diminished ; and although certainly in the process some of the juices of the meat are lost, yet these appear to consist chiefly of water tinged with blood. Meat that has been kept very long in salt becomes strongly and disagreeably saline; and it is difficult by soaking in water to expel the salt, for the meat retains it with great obstinacy, even in boiling. Over.salting appears to have no remedy; for if the meat be kept so long in water as to bring the salt from the middle of the mass, the outside will be totally deprived of it; and cutting it in pieces is well known to injure the quality of the meat. 4455. Salting meat is performed in two ways, by dry salting, and pickling. 4456. Dry salting is performed by packing the meat in dry salt, and sometimes rubbing the surface of it all over with the salt. Packed in salt, the meat will keep longer, but it is made more salt, and is more altered in its nutritious properties than when it is simply cured by pickling. Dry salting is necessary where beef or pork are intended for export- ation and keeping in a hot climate. In general, the pieces of the animal, best fitted for being salted, are those which contain fewest large blood-vessels, aud arc most solid. Very little salt penetrates except through the cut surfaces, to which it should therefore be chiefly applied, and all holes, whether natural or artificial, should be particularly attended to. For each twenty-five pounds of meat, about two pounds of coarse-grained salt should be allowed ; some employ the following mixture : a pound of black pepper, a quarter of a pound of Cayenne pepper, and a pound of saltpetre, all ground very fine, and mixed well with three quarts of fine salt; this mixture is sufBcicnt for .eight hundredweight of beef. The pieces should be first sprinkled with the spices, and then the salt and spice should be