876 HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. Cook X11. Sect. IV. PlUSPAllATION OF MEAT, ETC., FOR COOKINCJ, AND DIRECTIONS FOR COOKING PROCF.SSEF. SuBSECT. 1—Instruction for young Cooks. 4914. Instniclion in the elementary details of cooking must always be essential to young cooks, who m the outset of their life of service require some quicker mode of obtainmg the knowledge of their duties than their own experience could give them, ioung servants have not in the present day so much practical instruction from their mis- tresses, as was the case in former times, when all ladies, except those of the highest rank, supermtended and assisted in the preparations for " well-served tables." The chief processes in English cooking are boiling, stewing, roasting, fryinq, and broilinq Directions for each will be found in the following subsection. SuBSECT. 2.—Particular Directions for Cooking Processes. In Book XI. Chap. II. we gave the rationale of the several processes employed in cooking. We now proceed to give particular directions for the cook. 4915. Boiling.—Meats, whether salted or fresh, should be put, when they are to be boiled, into saucepans of cold water, that the meat may gradually grow warm as the water increases in heat. The quantity of water in which meat is boiled should be sufficient cover it, but no more ; and as it wastes away in boiling, the cook should frequently renew the qnantity by adding a cup of warm water to it. If she add cold water she checks the boiling of the water considerably, and the time allowed for boiling it is thus wasted. Water in which meat is boiling throws up a scum, which must be skimmed o£F as fast as it rises. If this be not done the neglect will be apparent in the black streaks which will settle on the meat in serving. As soon as the water boils, the saucepan or kettle containing it should be drawn off the fire, but placed near enough to it to keep it simmering. Meat is more thoroughly cooked by gentle than by fast boiling, which hardens it. The allowance of time for boiling meat, and for roasting also, is in the summer at the rate of a quarter of an hour to one pound of meat, in the winter twenty minutes to the pound. Salt and dried meats, such as briskets of beef, hams, and tongues, require very slow boiling ; and hence much more time must be allowed-for them than for fresh meats. Old meats, such as beef and mutton, require a less allowance of time both for roasting and boiling than do the young meats, such as veal and lamb. The reader is referred to p. 878. for a table of time for boiling, roasting, &c. 4916. Stewing. — The water into which the meat has been put to stew should be allowed to boil, and should be kept boiling until the scum ceases to rise, and has been care- fully removed. The saucepan must then be covered closely and placed near enough to the fire to keep the contents simmering, or to one regular moderate temperature, untQ the meat is become as tender as the nature of the dish of which it is to be the basis requires. 4917. Roasting.—Slow roasting is as desirable as slow boiling; and, that the process should commence gradually, it is desirable to put the joint down to roast very soon after the fire has been supplied with the quantity of fuel which the roast in question will require to be consumed before it is sufficiently done. By putting down the meat before the whole mass of fuel is ignited, the heat, increasing by degrees, communicates itself to the meat in the same gradual manner, and in due time reaches the interior of the joint. The fire should always be proportioned to the size of the joint to be roasted : that which is but just sufficient to roast the noble sirloin will parch up a lighter joint Before the meat is put down, the lower bars of the fire should be raked and cleared of every smoky coal in front. The distance at which meat should be put from the fire is from nine to twelve or thirteen inches. At the farthest point it should be put at first, and brought closer by degrees. The fat, as well as those parts of a joint 'n which there is no great thickness of meat, should be protected from the full force of the fire requisite for the other parts, by having paper skewered over them, or by covering them with a coarse paste of flour and wafer, fastened on with paper and string. This latter mode is very commonly employed by professed cooks, and taken off only in time to brown and froth the meat. When a paper cover is used, it should be fastened on with twine rather than skewers, which allowing it to start from the meat towards the fire, it becomes scorched, and distastes and colours tlie surface of the joint. 4918. The time alloivedfor roasting varies according to circumstances ; old meats, beef and mutton, require less roasting than young.