y20 FRENCH COOKERY. Book XIV. them into the frying-pan with butter. Wlien dinner-time is at hand, fry them OTcr a brisit fire of a very good colour. If the fire be not quick the cutlets will take too much time in browning, and will be dried up. As soon as they acquire the right colour take them out of the pan. Press each cutlet between clean pieces of whity-brown paper, to drain the fat from thera. Glaze them, and put round them a puree of mushrooms. 5322. The inside of fillet of million marinaded—au Chevreuil. — Have the fillets of four saddles of mutton, producing eight filets mignons. Lard them, and put them into a mari- nade pickle; namely, of thyme, parsley, bay leaves, onions, salt, pepper, and vinegar. After being in this pickle for two or three hours, put them into a fryiug-pan over layers of bacon, and bake them of a nice colour. Glaze, and serve them with a poivrade under them. SuBSECT. 3 Entries of Veal. 6323. Grenadier de veau—{purie of .white celery) These are small fillets of veal, larded as fricandeau of veal, cut thinner than for fricandeau, and consequently requiring less time in cooking. After larding them, put them into a stew-pan with a carrot, a large onion, a root or two of parsley, a bay leaf, and some thyme, a small quantity of mace, allspice, and whole pepper ; let the vegetables be at the bottom of the stew-pan, and cover them with layers of fat bacon, (lean bacon will turn veal red); the veal must be laid on them, and sprinkled with a little salt. Pour some broth upon the vegetables, but not enough to reach the meat. Close the stew-pan, and put it on a slow fire ; cover the lid with hot coals or charcoal, and when it begins to boil, put it over a slow and equal fire for two hours and a half, basting it frequently with the liquor. After this, put a great deal of fire over it to harden the bacon. Reduce to a glaze the liquor, and serve it with a puree of white celery. 5324. Scollops of sweetbreads with green peas Wash and blanch four sweetbreads. Cut them into large scollops. Put them into a frying-pan with melted butter and a little salt. A quarter of an hour before dinner is served, fry them of a very light brown over a clear fire; turn them, that they may be equally done, drain away the butter, and put a little glaze into the pan, in which keep stirring the scollops. Put the peas in the middle of the dish, and place the scollops en miroton around them. Scollops of sweetbreads are easier to arrange when a slice of fried bread cut round is put between them, without which they seldom keep the form in which they are first dished. N.B. — All entrees of veal, such as curres, fricandeaux, cotelettes, sweetbreads, &c., with all sorts of purees ; and in the summer with la Macedoine. They are all dressed nearly in the same manner; but by changing the sauce, the flavour and appearance are changed also. SuBSECT. 4 Entrees of Tongues. 5325. Miroton of pickled tongue. — Cut some thin slices of cold pickled tongue; dress it en miroton in a dish, and put it into an oven for ten minutes. Put mashed turnips in the centre of the dish, and glaze the tongue. 532G. stewed be(J'longve (unsalted). — Take a fresh tongue, wash it, and blanch it in hot water. Stew it in a good braise for two hours and a lialf, skin it, .md cut it in two; spread it open, and mash with sauce machee. 6327. Miroion (if tongue with sorrel puree. — Take slices of tongue stewed as above, and dress it en miroton; highly glaze it, and serve with sorrel puree. SuBSECT. 5.—Entries of Fowl, 5328. Fowl a la Villeroi Take a fine fowl, empty, singe, &c., and truss it with its legs turned outwards; put in the inside a small quantity of butter, kneaded with salt and lemon-juice. Put the fowl into an oval stew-pan with a layer of fat bacon; pour some poele over it. While entrees are not to be kept longer on the fire than needful, three quarters of an hour will dress a fowl in this manner ; a capon perhaps an hour. Serve it with sauce a la financiere. 5329. Scollops of fowls. — Take the fillets of three fowls. Cut each scollop of the size of half a crown ; dip each in clarified butter, and fry them on both sides over a brisk fire. Put them into the sauce prepared for them ; if truffles, cut the truffles about the same size as the meat, and fi7 them with the scollops of fowl. A few minutes before dinner put them all into a bechamelle sauce, into which a reduction of truffles has been added. The reduction is prepared with trimmings of truffles put into and stewed in consomme till it becomes a glaze. This glaze is stirred in with the scollops, and to make it white a few spoonfuls of thick cream must be added. In preparing this or any other meat with truffles, care must be taken to do both meat and truffles thoroughly. Both the meat and truffles may be fried together ; but the meat must be taken out first, and the truffles must be allowed to remain in a little longer, and be very equally fried on both sides. The scollops are then put in a second time; the butter is drained away from them ; the truffle