FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 983 pale salmon coloured tint from the natural colour of a kind of cotton grown in that country. English nankeen looks equally well at first, and even better, as it is more evenly woven; but it loses its colour, obtained from being dyed, and becomes pale after being several times washed. 5779. CoUon damasks are made in imitation of linen damasks, which see; though they answer very well for many ordinary purposes, and are cheap, they are not so durable as linen, nor do they preserve their whiteness except frequently bleached. Huckahaclis and diapers of cotton are made in imitation of the same articles in linen, and are used for the same purpose. They are cheaper, but less durable. 5780. Cottan ticks are plain and twilled in imitation of linen ticks, to which they are inferior. There is also a kind named union composed of linen and cotton. Gingham is a thin chequered cotton. Counterpanes, evidently a corruption of counter-point, have little protuberances on the surface, dispersed after a certain pattern. 5781. Marseilles quilts are a more elegant kind of bed-quilts, and lighter than common white counterpanes of cotton. This fabric is a double cloth with a third of softer materials between, which is kept in its place by the quilting done in the loom. 5782. Cotton quilting is made for waistcoat pieces, strong and thick, and much resem- bling the pattern of diaper. 5783. Jean is a twilled cotton, striped as well as white. Satin jeans are of a superior make, wove in the manner of satin, with a smooth glossy surface, and used much for ladies' shoes. 5784. Dimity is a well-known article, made with various stripes and either twilled or plain ; much used for white curtains. 5785. Fustian is a species of coarse twilled cotton, but may be considered as a general term which comprehends several varieties of cotton fabrics, as corderoy, jean, velveret, velveteen, thickset, thickset cord, and other stout cloths for men's wearing apparel; from their strength and cheapness, they are very serviceable to agricultural people. It is generally dyed of an olive, leaden, or other colours. Fustians appear to have been first manufactured in Barcelona, and were so named from the Spanish " fuste," strong. They were first brought to this country from Flanders, where they were also made, probably in consequence of the connection between that country and Spain. They were much in re- quest formerly, though it does not appear that they were made here to any extent until the manufacture was brought over by the religious refugees, several of whom settled in Bolton and Manchester, and gave rise to the cotton manufacture of these places. But the fustians of that time were not made wholly of cotton. Cotton could not then, as we have already stated, be spun in Europe, fit for the warp, which was obliged to be of linen, and the weft only was of cotton. Till the inventions of Arkwright furnished water-twist for the warp, fustian was a mixed manufacture of linen and cotton. At present it is made entirely of cotton. Fustians are either plain or twilled. Common plain fustian, called pillow is sold as low as Id. a yard ; when of a strong twilled texture, and cropped or shorn before dyeing, it is called harragon and moleskin; when shorn after being dyed, it is called beaverteen. These form strong, durable, and cheap materials for clothes for labouring people. Cantoon is a fustian with a fine cord visible upon one side, and a satiny surface of yams running at right angles to the cords upon the other side. The satiny side is sometimes smoothed by singeing. The stuif is strong, and has a fine aspect. Corduroy is classed among fustian, but is ribbed or corded, the projecting part having a pile. The best kinds are twilled. It is a strong wear. Cutting or cropping fustians by hand, to give them a corded appearance, is a very laborious and delicate operation ; and a machine has been invented which effects the purpose with great precision and dispatch ; hence the price of these articles has lowered, and a great variety has been been introduced. 5786. Velveteen, or cotton velvet, is an imitation of velvet in cotton ; it is of various colours, and much used for the same purposes as velvet, being much cheaper. Vdverct and thickset are modifications of velvet. 5787. Cotton handkerchiefs are made of a vast variety of kinds. Some are printed in imitation of India handkerchiefs, and are called Malabars, bandanas, &c.; others are spotted in white; navy blues and Monteiths are dyed all of one colour, and have spots of white through discharging the colour by a particular process. The manufacture of cotton bandanas, by Messrs. Monteith of Glasgow, is a remarkable instance of what may be done by mechanical and chemical means combined. A great number of cotton handkerchiefs, dyed of a brilliant Turkey red, are laid upon each other and subjected to a press, and a liquid capable of discharging the colour is let into them through apertures in the press. Such is the expedition of this process that in ten hours 1600 pieces, of 12 j-ards each, equal to 19,200 yards, are converted into bandanas, by the labour of four workmen.