438 ON FOOD. Book VII. dysentery ; but the eggs are ■wholesome. It is a ferocious creature, and defends itself with vigour. 2285. Tortoises are of two kinds: the land and fresh-water tortoise. The land species is distinguished by club-shaped feet, and toes furnislied with claws, and has the shell very convex. The fresh-water species have their feet more or less webbed, 228G. The common land tortoise ( Testudo Grceca, Linn.) receives its name from abounding in Greece and the countries bordering on the Mediterranean. It is covered by an ex- tremely strong shell, about seven inches in length, and weighs about three pounds. It is a slow, stupid looking animal,lives upon milky plants, as lettuces, dandelions, &c., delights in warmth, but avoids the heat of the sun in summer, and is equally afraid of rain. In the winter he burrows into the ground, where he remains torpid for some months. Its flesh is eaten by the inhabitants of those countries where it abounds, and likewise its eggs, which it lays in holes in the earth, where they are hatched by the sun beams. It is well attested that this animal lives to a most extraordinary age, several examples being adduced of its having considerably exceeded the period of a century. One of the most remarkable instances is that of a tortoise introduced into the bishop's garden at Lambeth, in the year 1633, which continued to live there till 1753, when it was supposed to have perished rather from accidental neglect on the part of the gardener than from the mere effect of old age. Its shell is preserved in the library of the palace at Lambeth. The tortoise can refrain from eating as well as breathing for a great part of the year ; and from some experiments made upon it appears to be tenacious of life in a most extraordinary degree, living and walking about for six months even after being deprived of its brains, and the body lived for twenty-three days without the head.— Shaw's Lectures. The land tortoise occurs in great numbers in various parts of Hungary, more parti- cularly about Fuzcs-Gyarmath, and the marshes of the river Theiss ; and being esteemed a delicacy for the table, is caught and kept in preserves. The preserve of Kesztheley encloses about an acre of land, intei'sected by trenches and ponds, in which the animals feed and enjoy themselves. 2287. The mud tortoise {Testudo luiaria. Linn.) is rather less than the last, being about seven inches long, and, though rather an aquatic animal, lays its eggs on the ground. It is common in many parts of Europe and Asia, particularly in France, where it is used as food. It moves quicker than the land tortoise ; feeds upon vegetables, milk, worms, or oifal, and is frequently kept in gardens to clear them of snails. It is destructive to the fish if it gets into a fish-pond. The flesh is considered as restorative, and useful in warm climates, where in summer the cattle are thin from the irritation of insects, and the poultry rank from the quantity of worms they pick up. 2288. The river or fresh-water tortoises are more rare : one of the most remai-kable is the Testudo ferox, or fierce tortoise, a native of many parts of North America; its head is small and its neck very long, which it withdraws within its shell. It is an animal of swift motion, and will spring forward with great fury to attack its assailant: the usual length from one to two feet, and it is web-footed. The flesh of this is not inferior to that of the green turtle. 2289. The crocodile is eaten by the natives of some parts of Africa; but European tra- vellers, who have tasted its flesh, describe it as having a nauseous musky taste, though some parts are more delicate, resembling veal. 2290. Tlie guana, or Iguana, is a lizard four or five feet long, an inhabitant of South America and Africa, and sometimes met with in the "West Indies : it is gentle and harmless, and so much prized on account of the delicacy of its flesh, that it has become rare in many places where formerly it abounded. Stewed guana is a favourite dish in the West Indies. Its eggs are a great dainty. 2291. Various other lizards are eaten in diflerent parts of the world ; and nope of them are injurious as food. 2292. The frog {Rana, Linn.), which is so frequently eaten in France and many parts of the Continent, and which we hear so much about, is not our common frog, but another species, somewhat larger, the Rana escidenta. Linn. It is of a green colour, spotted with black, and having two pale yellow lines down the back. It is the hind quarters only that are eaten, and these are more fleshy than the thigh of our common frog, resembling the most delicate chicken ; when fricasseed, or made into patties, it makes a most excellent dish, which, however, in Paris is by no means cheap. The livers and fore legs are used in soup. They are brought alive in thousands to the capital cities of France, Belgium, Germany and Italy, and in some places there are regular conservatories for keeping them alive. This frog is rare in England. 2293. "We are told by Montfort, a French naturalist, that frogs are much in request at Vienna, where not only the thighs are eaten, as in France, but every part of the animal. At the commencement of winter the dealers in these creatures fill a pit with thousands of frogs, which the country people collect in the marshes and ponds, and cover them with straw and planks to keep them from the frost. In this manner they are preserved alive