938 COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST AND INVALID. Book XVI. BOOK XVI. COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST AND INVALID. CHAP. I. COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST, Among the foregoing receipts ■will be found many which, by the economist, would be considered as leading to a prodigal use of the ingredients composing our daily food ; and, in the case of householders of small income, the application of those receipts could not, indeed, be otherwise regarded. Health in the body, and comfort in the spirits, to be sustained, demand a daily sufficiency of food, properly cooked. A single joint, well cooked and neatly served, ought, to persons in health, to afford a dinner sufficiently nourishing and enjoyable ; but when this can be varied by the art of cooking, without increasing imprudently the expenditure, there can be no objection to its being done ; on the contrary, it is only co-operating with the benevolent intentions of nature, to render the meals of those who earn their food fully relishing. Sometimes the situation in life requires not only economy, but something of style to be supported. When this is the case, a really good cook is a valuable person in a family : she will know how to turn every thing to account; how to produce from an old basis a new dish; and how to serve up in some form or other to-day the superabundance of the dinner of the previous day. Ideas and suggestions on these points will be found in the present chapter : they are offered as assistance to the novice in domestic economy, but who, in following them up, will find some that may not be in her case capable of appli- cation ; some that must be modified before they are adopted, others that must be improved upon. Sect. I. butcher's meat, fish, and POIJLTKY. SuBSECT. 1.—Economy in the Use of Butcher's Meat. 5487. Of beef the round is, in large families, one of the most profitable parts : it is usually boiled, and, like most of the boiling parts of beef, is generally sold in London at a penny per pound less than the roasting joints. 5488. The brisket is also a penny a pound less in price than the roasting parts : it is hot so economical a part as the round, having more bone to be weighed with it, and more fat. Where there are children, very fat joints are not desirable, being often disagreeable to them, and sometimes prejudicial, especially if they have a dislike to it. This joint also requires more cooking than many others ; that is to say, it requires a double allow- ance of time to be given for boiling it: it will, when served, be hard and scarcely digestible if no more time be allowed to boil it than that which is sufficient for other joints and meats. When stewed it is excellent; and when cooked fresh (Ji. e. unsalted), an excellent stock for soup may be extracted from it, and yet the meat will serve as well for dinner. 5489. Tlie edgebone, or aitchbone, is not considered to be a very economical joint, the bone being large in proportion to the meat; but the greater part of it, at least, is as good as that of any prime part. It sells at a penny a pound less than roasting joints. 5490. The rump is the part of which the London butcher makes great profit, by selling it in the form of steaks. In the country, as there is not an equal demand for steaks, the whole of it may be purchased as a joint, and at the price of other prime parts. It may be turned to good account in producing many excellent dishes. If salted, it is simply boiled ; if used unsalted, it is usually stewed. 5491. The veiny piece is sold at a low price per pound; but if hung for a day or two, it is very good and "very profitable. AVTiere there are a number of servants and children to have an early dinner, this part of beef will be found desirable. 5492. From the leg and shin excellent stock for soup may be drawn ; and, if not reduced too much, the meat taken from the bones may be served as a stew with vegetables ; or it may be seasoned, pounded with butter, and potted ; or chopped very fine, and seasoned with herbs, and bound together by egg and bread-crumbs : it may be ft-ied in balls or in the form of large eggs, and served with a gravy made with a few spoonfuls of the soup. 5493. OfhiSfan ox cheek excellent soup may be made : the meat, when taken from the bones, may be served as a stew.