ON MAKING BREAD. Book IX. 746 perform the operation of grinding, a considerable quantity of flour -will always adhere to the bran, -which will be lost; and with steel mills, which rather cut than rub down or grind the grain, the loss will be still greater. Upon the whole, therefore, little or nothing is to be expected on the score of economy by grinding at home; more particularly if, as probably will be found necessary, the labour is to be paid for; this not coming within the ordinary duties of domestic servants : nor should the inconvenience of the mill, and the noise it occasions, be left out of the account. Nevertheless, as we have stated, there are certain situations in which a portable mill is extremely valuable. Fig. 617 4242. Domestic mills have been made nearly upon the same construction as the common corn-mill. Jig. C17., with this dilTerence, that tliey are worked by the labour of two men, or a horse. We refer the reader to what has lieen already said, on the action of the mill-stones in grinding. The two stones are seen at a and b. The upper stone is fixed upon a perpendicular axis called the spindle, and this has on it a trundle c, the upper end of the axis or spindle moving in a cross piece. The trundle, and with it the stone, is driven by the cog-wheel d, which is worked by a winch, e, if the hand be employed. The corn to be ground is put mto the funnel /, called the hopper, from which it falls into the shoe^r, and thence into a hole iu the top of the mill-stone, whence it gets between them and is crushed or ground; the meal flies out in all directions from between the two stones, but is stopped by the casing round the stones, and there it accu- mulates, falls out, and is conveyed away by the spout A. As the corn does not come out very readily from the hopper, the spindle is formed in such a manner as to give a slight knock or jerk to the shoe g, as it turns round, and this is communicated to the hopper. By a particular contrivance, the two stones can be placed closer or farther apart, for the purpose of grinding finer or coarser. Mills of this kind, where the power is sufficient, grind well; but the wearing away of the stones, and getting them new dressed, is a great inconvenience. 424a. Some small hand-mills resemble in construction those metallic coffee-grinders which are commonly sold in the shops. These consist interiorly of a solid frustum of a cone, the surface of which is cut spirally into furrows ; this revolves within a hollow frustum of a cone a little larger, also furrowed ; and the substance to be ground passes between these two. In the little box coflee-mills, the axes of the cones are vertical ; but in the largest sort, fixed to the wall or a post, the axis and the cones are horizontal. This kind of mill is not well adapted to the grinding of corn, as they soon clog and make bad flour. 4244. One of the best flour hand-mills of the latter kind is that invented lately by Mr. Luke Herbert, and described in the " Mechanic's Magazine." It is made of iron, and not only grinds the corn, but at the same time dresses or sifts the meal into flour, pollard, bran, &c. o, Jig. 618., is an axis turned by a winch, c, assisted, if required to be worked by two persons, by a handle, d, fixed to any one of the arms of the fly- wheel e e. The axis, a, also carries a bevelled wheel, /, which drives a pinion fixed upon a vertical spindle that revolves in the centre of a metallic hopper, !, and carries at its lower extremity the upper grinder; to the circumference of the latter are attached brushes that revolve together with it inside the circular case j. cast in one piece with the hopper i. The lower grinder is fixed in the centre of the flat top, A, of the pedestal; and around the lower grinder, in the same place as its upper surface, is a ring of fine wire-gauze, over the area of which the brushes sweep in their revolution, continually scattering every particle of the meal, as the same is constantly pro- jected in minute quantities all around the circumference of the grinders on to the wire-work, causing the flour to fall through into the drawer »«, below ; while the bran and pollard, which cannot pass the wire gauze, are continually being freed from their adhering flour by the action of the brushes, until they are driven through an aper- ture at the outer circumference of the wire-gauze, on to an inclined screen of coarse wire-work, where the offal separates itself, in the mere act of falling. Into pollard and bran, both of which deposit them- selves into separate compartments made in the drawet- n. At 4 is a screw for regulating the admission of the corn ; and there is also a contrivance by which the mill can be made to grind finer or coarser, for various seeds, as maize, peas, beans, rice, &c., or for crushing malt. This machine is portable, perfectly cleanly, and prevents dust and waste. It is made entirely of iron, and if required to be carried to dist.ant parts' of the globe, several spare grinding plates are sold with the mill, iu case of any wearing out. I'rinted direction* by the proprietor for using it are sent with the machine. If it be required to convert this into a simple mill for grinding substances that do not require sifting, this is easily done by withdrawing the wire-gauze. 'With domestic mills, a horse will in general grind one bushel an hour ; and an average day's work for a man will be about two bushels. Considerable attention is necessary to grind well. The friction produced in the process always occasions a sensible degree of warmth in the meal: the cooler the meal comes from the stones, the better is the flour, ,md the lighter the bread made of such flour. Meal that has been overheated, is tcchnic.iUy said to be killed ; and it will be more apt to become damp and mouldy, and to be attacked by insects; nor can it be so easily 4245 Good wheat should look pliwip, feel heavy in the Annrf, and be of a clear tran.sparent amber colour ; and when masticated some time in tiie mouth, a considerable portion of a thick glutinous matter, which is the pure gluten free from meal, should be lea behind. Its taste should be sweetish ; and the thinnest skinned yields the-most and best flour. We have shown tli.at the part of the grain which produces the finest flour is the heart or centre This flour ferments r.apidly ; but the flour or meal produced by that part of the grain imme- diately undiT the skin, being softer than the heart, is not so easily reduced to powder, is inferior, and ferments with yeast with difliculty. SuBSECT. 4. — Constituenls of Wwat Flour, and its various Qualities. 4246. The nature of bread-making, and particularly tliat of fermented bread, cannot be properly understood until we are acquainted with the chemical constitution of meal and flour. Wheat flour being the most importnut, we shall describe this first. Il a handful of wheat flour be kneaded into a paste under water, the latter will become milky; Fig. 618.