iCiiAP. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. 229 Sect. IV. FLOOR CLOTH, AND OIL CLOTH COVERS. 1076. This name of floor cloth is applied to a mamifacture of cloth painted over with oil ccolours, so as to be impenetrable to wet : and the oil cloth coverings used for tables, &c., aare made nearly in a similar manner. A stout canvass is chosen in the first instance for £3oor cloth, and this is sometimes of very large size, amounting to 210 or 220 square \vards, which is the reason of the large premises required for this sort of manufacture. 'IThe canvass is stretched on a strong wooden frame, and, after being well sized, is rubbed aand smoothed down with pumice stone. Four coats of stiff oil paint are then laid on siiuccessively, on one side of the canvass, suffering each, first to dry, and then three coats ran the other side. After this paint is quite dry, the cloth is detached from the frame, in larder to be printed in the manner of calico printing: for this purpose it is rolled up on a roller, and unrolled as required for the process. In giving the surface pattern, stencilling was fobrmerly employed : but printing with blocks is now generally practised. The colours em- ;l)loyed in good floor cloth are always white lead mixed with ochre, umbers, and the usual rsarthy pigments ground in linseed oil, and mixed with a little turpentine. In spurious oil :l:loth whiting is sometimes mixed with the white lead, but such cloth cracks and does not rvear well. It is obvious that the number of blocks must depend upon the pattern : the np-eater the number of colours, the more expensive will be the manufacture. It is eeckoned that every square yard of good floor cloth should weigh 3i or 4i lbs., and hence hhe quality of the cloth may in part be estimated by the weight. Good cloth, when used for ■i-overing verandas, or other places exposed to the weather, ought to last nine or ten years; irhereas cloth of a spurious kind wiU decay in one year. The best cloth has even been )occasionally used in some places for gutters, water producing no injurious effect upon it. 1077. Floor cloth is better for being kept for some considerable time before it is used, the aaint getting harder, and it therefore is charged for partly according to its age ; new Idoor cloth being cheaper than that which has been kept a year or two. That for passages > i charged according to the yard run ; yard wide is from 2s. 6d to 5s, Half a yard wide na the Pereian or Turkish style of design. Is. 6d. per yard ; five eights Is. 7d. Floor cloth to cover a room is charged by the yard superficial, according to its quality, hhat depending upon the strength and goodness of the canvass, the number of coats of !.iaint, the number of colours in the face, and the age of the cloth. 1078. Floor cloth is very useful in some apartments, on account of its impenetrability to rrater, and its drying so soon after being wetted : but water should be sparingly used in Meaning it, and still more should soap, for this latter will cause the paint to come off' by ■issolving the oil with which it was made. If not too much dirtied, floor cloth may be I ept clean by wiping it with a damp cloth, and afterwards rubbing it well with a dry cloth, md then with a brush till it shines. 1079. There is a great variety of styles in the patterns of oil cloth. Some are made to imi- ittte marble casements ; some wainscot boards, and some carpets of various kinds. Those xe best which have several colours, and the pattern rather small. When the pattern is r.rge, defects are sooner perceived: but again in those which have a large pattern to imitate marble, defects may be repaired by a house painter. 1080. Matting is used in some cases instead of carpets. The best are India mats which [PC used to lay over carpets, particularly in summer, from their being cool. They are lorable. 1081. Oil clotlis for covering tables are made on fine canvass, one side, after having icceived the proper number of coats of oil paint, is printed with blocks ; and the other dde next to the table receives only one coat of paint, which, while wet, is strewed over idth flock made of cut wool, so as to resemble green baize. Sect. V. TABLES AND STANDS. 11082. Dining tables are necessarily of various sizes and forms to suit the apartments, number of gtiests, and other circumstances. Various methods have been contrived for increasing the size of tables on occasion, and of causing them to occupy less space when out of use. One of the most usual is the common dining table made of mahogany with a fixed centre part, and folding leaves or flaps supported by fly-rails and legs to draw out, or put back when the table is 3