Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. 815 ing a certain quantity of heat to the latter by conducting it from the fire: in these ovens, though there is no circulation, there is a cavity left all round the side farthest from the fire and the back, by the bricklayer in setting them, which prevents the heat from being ab- sorbed by the -svalls. But this last kind of ovens, without any circulating tlue, do not perform nearly so well, although some ironmongers assert they do, as where the flame and smoke pass all round. Very small kitchen ranges sometimes have an oven and side boiler, both heated by tlie fire in the middle, without the boiler extending along the back of the fire ; but such a range cannot have a partition to wind up to reduce the size of the fire, as the latter must come up to both oven and boiler ; these cannot be expected to act so well j but tliey are useful, and much cheaper. It is a good method, though seldom practised, to have the side of the oven next the fire made of double iron, with half an inch between the plates, to prevent the too violent heat on that side. By a late improvement, the shelves in the oven are made circular and to revolve, so that the different sides of the dishes placed upon them, can be presented in rotation to the hottest part. This is shown in fig. 631., where the door is left out to display the shelves. 4G64. In verji large kitchens, where a great deal of cooking is performed, the range is usually made of much larger size, and the bars are of great strength. The boiler is likewise made of wrought iron instead of cast, for greater strength and durability, and placed at the back of the fire only, whence they are termed back boilers (see fig. 632.). A pipe from the boiler conveys water from it, and it is kept full from a supply cistern. A man-hole for cleaning it out frequently is provided at the top, which is secured from the steam coming out, by an arch of iron, and a screw and nut. There are two winding up partitions for reducing or enlarging the fire. The kitchen fender is made of strong iron, with a flat double bar on the top ; and sometimes there is a pit below the grate for the ashes, covered by a grating to separate the cinders. 4665. It is commonly stated bi/ ironmongers that ranges of this kind with boiler and oven perform tlie operations of boiling and baking ivil/wut any additional expense or consumption of fuel. This statement is absurd. The large quantity of iron in the range, and the water in the boiler, absorb heat from the fire; and therefore, with such appendages to the grate, there must be a certain loss or extra expenditure of heat absorbed, which can only be supplied by more fuel than would otherwise be necessary: but in many cases that loss is not to be regretted when put into comparison with the advantage and great convenience of having hot water always at hand without any trouble, together with a hot oven, either to bake in or to keep things warm. The boiler will even retain its heat in a considerable degree for several hours after the fire is extinguished. These improved modern ranges are sold at various prices, according to their size, quality, and strength, from two or three pounds to eight, ten, or fifteen.