Chap. IV. 155 LAMPS. lamp without tlie glass shade and stand, and iu A, which is a section of the same. B represents the lamp complete : the whole of what is exhibited in the other figures being included within the ground glass shade, and concealed by it. To fill the reservoir, the oil is poured iu through the hollow two-valve cock, b, which at that time must have the yalve, c, open, and the other valve, d, shut : there are marks on the top of the valve for setting the valves by means of the little handle, o. When the reservoir is full, the valve, d, is opened, and the oil flows out of the reservoir into the descending tube, e, which communicates with the burner, f; but it passes farther on, and rise sabove the level of the burner, through the tube, on the opposite side, g, as far as h ; compressing the air in the upper part, which, being open, is covered and surrounded by a short outer tube, i, one half of which is open, and communicates with the reservoir, while the other half is closed. The lamp is now ready to be lighted : when this is done, the oil begins to be consumed, and the burner is supplied by the tube e, which takes it from the reservoir : but no more can come from the latter, except some aii* enters to supply its place ; and this is admitted by a very ingenious contrivance. A smaller tube, k, is attached to the side of the tube, h, and communicates with it at the lower part, the upper part being open to the atmosphere. When, therefore, the combustion of the flame draws the oil from the reservoir by the tube e, the atmosphere passes into the upper part of the tube k, and air passes downwards in minute bubbles, according to the direction of the arrows, to the top, and down again through the short external tube i, imtil it arrives in the reservoir, and ascends to the upper part of it, to fill the vacuum that otherwise would be formed : and this effect proceeds as long as there is any oil in the reservoir, or until the whole is consumed by the flame. One of the advantages of this lamp, therefore, is that the supply of oil, not depending merely upon capillary attraction, as in the original French lamp, will burn with an undiminished flame as long as there is oil in the reservoir. In the French lamp the flame becomes weak some time before the oil is exhausted : and it requires more frequent supply. This lamp likewise obviates a defect which attends the Argand lamp when the flame is near the reservoir : the heat expands the air in it, and sometimes forces the oil over the bm'ner. By the construction just described, the air which enters at /(, and passes up the tube h into the reservoir, being surrounded by the oil in the latter, which is warmed by the flame, is heated to the same degree of temperature as the oil, and in consequence so much rarefied, that its pressure upon the surface of the fluid is considerably diminished, and therefore is not so liable to occasion an overflow at the burner. Another peculiarity belongs to the patent. The wick is raised or depressed by means of a rack, m, cut upon the shelf for the glass chimney into which a pinion n works, and this is turned by a rod that rises above the cistern, and is accessible without lifting off the glass-shade, as was necessary in former constructions. It is easy to perceive that this lamp can cast no shadow downwards on the table. Sect. VIII. pakker's hot oil lamp. 703. This is a late invention, chiefly founded on the advantage of heating oil previously to its combustion. The cistern a (see the section A., fig. 133.) is composed of two cylin- ders, one within the other, the oil being contained in the space between both, expressed by dots ; and through the inner cylinder, the chimney of the flame, b, passes up to heat the oil in the cistern. The lower part of the chimney is of glass, but the upper part, c, is of iron, for the purpose of radiating the heat more strongly against the sides of the cistern, or reservoir, which is assisted by the top of the chimney being notched and bent back. From the cistern, a pipe, d, descends to supply the wick with oil, and on it is a stop-cock to turn off the supply when the cistern is to be charged with oil. Instead of raising or lowering the wick to regulate the height of the flame, as in the Argand's lamp, the effect is produced by raising or lowering the bell-mouthed glass chimney, which rests on three slips of metal moved by rack work. The cistern contains an imperial pint of oil, and should be made quite full before lighting the lamp, so as to have no air in it, as that, by expansion with the heat, would cause an overflow of the oil. A shade of a conical form, e c, made of paper plaited, and plain white, pierced or painted, is placed round the light, and to conceal the cistern : it is suspended on a circle of wire //. The nature of this paper shade is seen better in the external view of the lamp at B. The cylindrical cotton wick, which, we have observed, is stationary, is very short, as a new one is to be put on every day with a cotton stick, that it may burn clear, and pi-event the usual clogging of the wick, which takes place when it is suft'cred to remain in the oil for several days, as is usually the case. That the flame may be more regular, the wicks, as sold, are cut quite true by machinery. More particular directions for managing this lamp are given in a printed paper to purchasers. We must observe that this lamp is calculated to burn the common oils, even the coarse fish oils, without smoke or smell, and