FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 998 of the artificial fabrics can be considered as completely waterproof, and skins are not suf- ficiently pliable nor elegant to be generally used as clothing. The first sort of fabric invented for the purpose of affording a completely waterproof covering appears to have been linen or silk varnished over, and familiarly known by the name of oils/tin; of this great coats and cloaks have been made, coverings for hats, and other articles of dress. These are efficacious to a certain degree, and are still in use; they are, however, liable to several objections. Varnished linen, improperly termed oiled linen, soon cracks in folding when much used, and allows the wet to get through. Oiled silk is much better, being more pliable, but it is likewise more expensive; cloaks have been made of this, so light and thin, as to go into the pocket, but their shining appearance is too remarkable, and they were never much used. 5877. A method employed in France for rendering leather, canvas, linen, S(c. waterproof, desenes Insertion, •IS it may be useful on particular occasions. One hundred gallons of linseed oil is boiled over a gentle fire: to this are added a pound and a half of sugar of lead, and half a pound of very finely powdered pumice stone. The liquid should be kept boiling until it becomes of such a consistence, that after being mixed with a third part of its weight of jiipe-clay, it should be of the thickness of molasses; the whole is then passed through a lawn sieve. Next, ten pounds of pipc-clay are ground in thin glue, to the consistence of lard ; and to this the above varnish is added gradually, taking care to stir it well all the while with a strong wooden spatula, until it be thoroughly incorporated. A pound and a half of burnt umber is now added, together with a pound and a half of white lead ground in oil. To apply this composition, the linen or other cloth is stretched over a wooden frame, and the varnish is spread by means of a broad spatula ; the frame is now reversed, and the other side covered in the same manner. After remaining a week to dry, the article is taken off for use. This was not intended for ordinary clothing, but for boat clo.iks, awnings, covers for carriages, &c. If a very glossy varnish be required, five pounds of the above composition are added to an equal quantity of clear resin, which is heated over the fire until it is dissolved ; to this is added two pounds of oil of turpentme, with which some colour has been ground to give it a desirable tint; the whole is then passed through a lawn sieve. This varnish is then laid on with a brush, .ind when quite hard, is rubbed over with pumice-stone and water, and afterwards well washed. Two or three coats of this are applied, letting one dry before another is laid on, ■'jSTS. Cloth lined with oiled silk has also been tried; but though this is impervious to the wet, yet as the cloth outside holds much water, this by evaporation produces consider- able cold; while the varnished lining prevents the insensible perspiration from escaping. Such contrivances may, however, be occasionally useful. What is most desirable is to give the cloth the same property which we find in the fur of several animals, as the otter, beaver, &c. By this repelling property, water, when thrown upon the animal, rolls off again in drops, without wetting it. The cloth would thus be pervious to the air, or to the perspirable matter; but this degree of perfection does not appear to have been yet completely attained, although the idea has occurred to many persons, and several endeavours have been made to invent a cloth of this kind. 5879. Cloth and stuffs have been made in a considerable degree waterproof by a wash of the following composition. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pound of soft water, one ounce of alum in two pounds of water, and a quarter of an oimce of soap in one pound of water. When the three solutions are made and strained, mix them together, and simmer them for some time. Brush this mixture over the cloth while hot; when dry, brush it well and give it another coat, all on the reverse side. In two or three days the cloth will be fit for use. Cloth prepared in this way does not prevent the air from penetrating like India rubber ; for lighter fabrics glue and gum arabic are added, and sometimes the stuff is dipped, instead of being brushed over. 5880. The most complete waterproof cloth are those made so by means of India rubber, which is extremely elastic, insoluble in water, and impei-vious to water or air. (See de- scription of caoutchouc, in Book V. Chap. V., " Materials for Furniture.") 5881. In South America they take advantage of these properties to make waterproof ponchos or cloaks. The cloth is stretched on a frame, and a layer of the liquid juice fresh from the tree is spread upon it, which becomes in a few minutes thick enough to have another cloth applied. Both these cloths are then pressed together, and are thus firmly united, the whole being perfectly impenetrable by water. But although this process is extremely easy in the native country of the caoutchouc plants, where only the juice can be procured in a liquid state, it is but of late that means have been discovered for rendering this material available here for the same purpose. 5882. lu 1797, Mr. Johnson took out a patent for rendering cloth waterproof by cover- ing one side with a varnish, made by dissolving India rubber in equal ([uantities of oil of turpentine and spirits of wine. To conceal the varnish, which was laid on the wrong side of the cloth, some substance was sifted over it, such as silk, wool, or flock. The articles made in this manner were called htjdrolaincs; but they do not appear tt) have answered, as they never came much into use. 5883. The waterproof cloth which is most perfect in excluding the wet is that which is prepared according to the process for which Mr. Mackintosh had a patent, now expired, and which was mentioned when describing caoutchouc as a material used in manufac- tures. In this process, the India rubber is dissolved by means of the liquid called naphtha, obtained from coal, and the solution is put betweecn two folds of cloth, as in the ponchos of Soiith America, just mentioned; the cloths arc then pressed together, and hung up till this varnish becomes sufficiently solid. This method fully answers the in-