Chap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 473 ScBSECT. 3. — Water-cress (Nasturtium officinale. Linn.). 2545. Water-cress has long been a favourite vegetable, and is found abundantly on the edges of running streams, preferring clean water to that which is muddy. It should be carefully distinguished from the water parsnep (Sium nodiflorimi. Linn.), which is poisonous, and is often found growing with it. 2546. The demand for water-cresses in London, as an adjunct at the breakfast table, has been so great, that, since 1808, they have been cultivated extensively in various places; as at Springhead Valley, near Gravesend, West Hyde, near Rickmansworth, Hackney, Uxbridge. &c. On a gravelly or chalky bottom, shallow excavations are made, into which running water is introduced about a foot deep, and the cress is planted in regular rows, so that a constant succession of young and healthy green shoots, in great perfection, are provided for the market. It is supposed to possess antiscorbutic properties. SoBSECT. 4 Burnet (Poterium Sanguisorha, Linn.). 2547. This hardy perennial plant is indigenous in Britain, found in dry, upland, calca- reous soils, and occasionally cultivated in gardens. The leaves are used in salads, put into soups, and form a favourite ingredient in cool tankards. When slightly bruised they smell like cucumber, and they have a somewhat warm taste. They continue green through the winter, but are now little in use. SuBSECT. 5.—Rape (Brassica 7-apus, Linn.). 2548. Rape, a native of Britain, is sometimes cultivated in gardens, the seed leaves being employed for salad, as mustard and cress. It is warm and aromatic. But the chief value of this plant is in the oil that is expressed abundantly from its seeds by a mill. Sect. X. POTHERBS, OR SEASONING HERBS. 2549. This title includes those vegetables which are not used alone as food, but are employed as additions to soups, stews, and various dishes, to increase their nutritious qua- lities, or to give them flavour. Many o"f them would prove actual poisons if eaten in quantity ; but they owe their useful properties to their stimulating nature and powerful flavour, by which they render many kinds of food palatable that would otherwise be insipid: some are used medicinally. They are of very ancient use, and are to be found in every garden, from that of the mansion to that of the cottage. S0BSECT. 1.—Parsley (Apium petroselinum, Linn.). 2550. This herb, of extensive use in the culinary art, was known to the ancient Greeks, but the time of its introduction into Britain is not ascertained. Though not indigenous, it is so common, and so frequetitly sows itself, as to be frequently taken for a native. 2551. There are several varieties: 1. the plain leaved, not much cultivated, though the only one used formerly. It is now nearly banished from the garden, because the curled varieties are much more elegant; but there is another reason for its being laid aside its great resemblance to a poisonous British weed, the fooVs parsley, or lesser hemlock ^thusa cynapium). The leaves of the latter are of a darker green, and, when bruised, have a very disagreeable smell, quite difierent from that of the common parsley. When in flower, the fool's parsley is easily distinguished by what is called its beard, that is, by the three long pendant leaves of its involucrum. 2. The curled leaf parsley, which may be safely used, being quite unlike the hemlock; it is the best, both for its flavour and appear- ance on the dish as a garnish. Sheep, hares, and rabbits are extremely fond of this herb, and it is said to impart to their flesh a fine flavour. It is useful to know that parsley is poison to parrots. Naples parsley or celery parsley is a variety between pai'sley and celery, and is used as the latter. Hamburgh parsley is a variety cultivated for the roots, which grow to the size of small parsneps; these boil exceedingly tender and palatable, are very wholesome, and may be used in soup or broth, or to eat with meat like carrots or parsneps. 2552. Purslane (JPortaluca olcracca. Linn.). — This plant is a native of South America. The young shoots and succulent leaves were more used formerly than at present as a cooling ingredient in spring salads. SuBSECT. 2.— Tarragon (Artemisia Dracunculus, Linn.) 2553. This herb, of a fragrant smell and aromatic taste, is used in France, on account of its pungency, to correct the coldness of salad herbs; an infusion in vinegar makes a