75 ujAi'. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. / Fig. 55. Fig. 50. often not properly attended to. Hence a confusion of ideas : thus a sort of common grate is called a Sath stove, and we sometimes hear of register stoves. The system should be, not to call any con- trivance a stove, except where the fire is concealed, either always or occasionally ; or rather where the heat is chiefly given out by the heated apparatus only, not depending upon the radiation from the fire as in a common open grate. 338. Out of the almost infinite variety of forms of grates that have been made at various times, we have selected a few of those ivhich are most In use. Grates of this kind are sold by the ironmongers, who keep large collections of various patterns in their show-rooms ; and there are so many in Lon- don who have them nearly of the same quality, that it would seem invidious to recommend any in particular. 339. Fig. 55. is the register grate as it was when Count Rumford found it, and which has been men- tioned already. It is not made at present in this form, and is only to be seen in old houses. The sides were not inclined, but at right-angles to the front. The fire was about sixteen or eighteen inches from the floor; and the distance between the top bar and the bottom of the frame very small, so as to cause a rapid draught up the chimney. These grates, therefore, though they made a bright fire, gave out little warmth to the apartment. 340. Fig. 56. is the well known Bath stove or grate, but with the jaumbs Rumfordized, that is, with the covings of the chimney placed at the angle recommended by Count Rumford, instead of hieir being at right-angles to the front as they were formerly. This necessarily reduces the hobs, and therefore renders them less conve- nient for such persons as find them useful in cook- ing : but this construction economises fuel by throwing out more heat by reflection, and still more by preventing the escape of much warm air of the apartment ; and it tends to prevent smoke by narrowing the throat of the chimney. 341. Fig. 57. is one of Hie simplest of the Rumford grates, proper for an ofiice or bed-chamber; the covings ai'e placed at an angle of 135 degrees with the back, and made of stone, with the exception of the part where the fire burns against it, below the dotted line, which is of fire-brick ; in fact, there is merely an iron bottom, and front, attached to sides of stone and brick. Some ironmongers, ^ 'i'' however, have made the whole covings of iron, which is only to be excused on the score of durability, iron throwing out much less heat than non-conducting materials. It is to be ob- served, that in this grate the fire is very low, within a few inches of the hearth ; whereas, for- merly, as we stated above, the bottom of the fire was kept up generally eigbteeen inches ; and it was not uncommon for bricklayers to raise up the grates by putting a brick or two below them, from an idea that the tire would not burn well if it was low. 342. Fig. 58. is a grate of the same general construction, but ornamented, and proper for a silting room: it is generally made wholly of iron, the front ground flat, with brass ornaments laid on. 343. Fig. 59. is another still more ornameuted in the style of the time of Louis XIV. 'J"hc iron front and covings are ground flat, and not polished j and the ornaments are of brass or bronze. Fig. 58.