813 Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. charcoal was put, and over which the stew-pans wore placed on trivets. As there were no tlues to carry off the noxious gas disengaged from the burning charcoal, the kitchens were rendered very uncomfortable, and likewise unhealthy, when stewing was much employed ; and as the deleterious nature of these charcoal vapours was not generally understood, no precautions were taken to guard against their bad effects. 46G2. Such was the Eiu/Iinh kitchen ivhen Count llum/ord directed the public iittentiim to the enormous and useh'ss expenditure in fuel, as well as to other matters connected tvilh it. In Germany he had been concerned in the arrangement of public establishments for the poor, and some of his inventions were put in practice with great success ; but the difl'erence in the modes of living in that country and in England prevented these improvements from being easily adopted here, and we have no example in this country of his German kitchens described in his " Essays," w hich were convenient for the cook, and where the economy of fuel was carried to such a degree as left nothing to be desired. In consequence, chiefly, of the writings of Count Rumford, and the various culinary arrangements fitted up in the Royal Institution, and in other places, from his plans and suggestions, a manifest improve- ment has taken place amongst us in this department; and though some of the best of the Count's ideas have been thwarted tlirough the interested and erroneous views of indivi- duals, yet much good has resulted from his philanthropic and zealous endeavours to benefit society. A portion of this good consists in his having shown how the principles of science may be applied with advantage to the subject of a kitchen, formerly considered as beneath the attention of the philosopher, and abandoned altogether to tradesmen, whose very limited education disqualified them from understanding this subject properly. Since that tune, however, considerable progress has been made in the fitting up of kitchens, and many improvements have gradually taken place : our limits will not permit us here to give their complete history, and we must content ourselves with describing such con- structions as are now in general use. 4663. Kitchen ranye. One of the improved liind now used is represented in fy. 629. This grate contains a partition of iron, a, which is moved by concealed rack-work and a key, which goes into the hole at this is for the purpose of enlarging the fire when roa-stmg is to be done, or contracting it when U\e cooking is finished. On the top of this partition is a revolving trivet, r, to hold a tea-kettle or saucepan over the fire. The top bar of the grate folds down,'\<) reduce the height of the fire when necessarv, and to sup- port saucepans or boilers. A shelf or drawer, d, below the fire, may be pulled out to hold the dripping-pan, plates, dishes, or anything where heat is required. On one side of the fire-bars is a series of hooks, c c, which one end of the spit rests in, the other end being carried by the chain coming up against the upright round, fi, f, which is attached to a horizontal piece, that can be pulled out a little to bring the spits nearer or farther from the fire ; and the hooks at the other end are also lixed to an upright bar that nuiy be moved out in a similar manner. It is scarcely necessary to mention that the spits are carried round by a jack, and liung at one end by the jaek eliain, that works in a grooved wheel fixed to the spit; and that behind the spit is the tin screen mentioned -when describing the process of roasting. ]{y this range, also, more than one spit may he in