201 COhap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. r-insed out with warm water, and wiped with a soft cloth, the surface of the metal will woon become covered with a thin crust or coating of a dark brown colour, resembling cfinamel: which covering, if it be suffered to remain, and to consolidate, will at last become wo hard as to take a very good polish, and will sei-ve very efficaciously to defend the iiiurface of the metal from farther corrosion, and consequently to prevent the food from sacquiring that taste and colour which iron alone is apt to impart to it. The process by which this covering is gradually formed, is similar to that by which some gunsmiths borown the barrels of fowling-pieces, and would no doubt be greatly expedited by the same nineans which they employ for that purpose: the object had in view is likewise the same inn both cases, by causing a hard and impenetrable covering of rust to be formed in the fuurface of the iron, to defend it from contact with those substances which are capable of iilissolving or corroding it, or, in other words, to prevent the farther progress of the rust. SuBSECT. 6.— Copper. 1 916. Copper, from its malleability and ductility, as well as hardness, is extremely isseful in articles of domestic economy. It suffers little change in a dry atmosphere, but nn moist air it rusts, and is converted into a carbonate of copper, which is oxide of oopper united to carbonic acid, being of a green colour. It is remarkable, that though •topper is oxydized by sulphuric or muriatic acids, and by the vegetable acids, in the air, ft'et if air be thoroughly excluded, these acids do not attack it. All the oxides and salts oormed by copper are violently poisonous: yet metallic copper is not. so: copper coins wallowed by persons have lain in the intestines for months, without any inconvenience. 917. Copper is easily acted upon by the acetic acid or vinegar, and a green substance is ■'ormed, well known by the name of verdigris : which is an acetate of copper, or acetic k-cid imited to oxide of copper, the poisonous nature of which is generally known : it is a MOwerful direct emetic, producing vomiting as soon as it is swallowed, without exciting laausea. « 918. Copper is likewise acted on by fat and oil of every description, and carbonate of iiopper is thus formed : therefore, when copper vessels have been used for preparing food, . at should never be sulFered to remain in them: many cases of poisoning are known to nave happened from soup or fat broth having been left for some time in copper boilers. 919. Chemists and physicians have repeatedly pointed out the danger arising from the use ff copper vessels in culinary operations; and numerous cases have been cited where this deleterious metal is suffered to enter into our food and drink, some of which, however, ipppear more alarming than is perhaps necessary. Thus it has been observed, that the orewer boils our beer in copper vessels ; the sugar-baker employs copper pans ; the pastry- cook bakes our tarts in copper moulds : the confectioner uses copper or brass vessels ; the ilman boils his pickles in the same. Though the quantity of copper thus introduced into >jur food and drink is not so great as to produce sudden fatal effects, yet it is not improbable tihat it may be sufficient to cause, in the course of time, derangements of the system. The senate of Sweden, in 1753, was so much impressed with the importance of the subject, that bdey prohibited the use of copper vessels for culinary purposes, and ordered that none but nuch as were made of iron should be employed in their ieets and armies. Confectioners rarely make use of any other vessels than those of copper untinned, even m the preparation of acid syrups, as of oranges and lemons; but they take care that idese vessels are well scoured, and kept perfectly clean : also that the syrups remain in kiem no longer than is absolutely necessary. Some preserving pans are made of brass and bell metal ; and these are preferable to copper. 920. Tinning on the inside prevents copper utensils from having the poisonous effect tliey mmld otherwise have upon food if prepared in them. Copper boilers, saucepans, and dther things of this kind, are not made of copper previously tinned, as in the case of iron; out they are tinned after they are made. They are first scoured bright, and then made not, and the tin is rubbed on over the fire with a piece of cloth, or some tow, having first pprinkled the surface of the copper with some powdered resin, oil, pitch, or some other mflamraable substance, the use of which is to reduce such part of the tin to the metallic tiate as may happen to be oxidated ; for, as we observed in the case of tinning iron, it is essential that both the metal and the tin should be in the pure, and not in the oxydized ;ate, in order that they should unite. If the copper were tinned first, the tin would be laelted off by the heat required by the hard solder used in making the joints. In this rrocess nothing ought to be used but pure grain tin : but we are sorry to observe, that fead is sometimes mixed with the tin, to adulterate its quality, and to make it lie more lasily. This is a pernicious practice. 921. All copper vessels, as soup kettles, stew pans, S^c, shoidd be examined every time they re used; these, as well as their covers, should be kept well tinned, to prevent those acci- ents which are so liable to occur from neglect; and no food should be suffered to remain I them any longer than is necessary for its preparation for the table.