Book X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 790 List of Provisions preserved hj M. Appert's Method, to be purchased in London. Meats. s. d. Soups and bouUi, jiri- lb. . 1 Round of beef . — .1 Roasted beef . — .2 Boiled beef. . — .1 A-la-mode beef . — .1 Mutton, roasted . — .2 boiled . . — .1 and green peas — . 2 Meat in small Cases. Soup and bouilli for quarts J per duz. . . .J A-la-mode beef . — Uagout of mutton — veal . . . — Mock turtle . . — Poultry. Ragout of fowls, per lb. turkey . . — goose . . — 2<1 0 Stowed eels, per lb. Oysters, half-pints, per case pints — . Lobsters for fish sauce,") quarter-pints . . 3 Ditto, hall pints . Vegetables. Carrots, plain, per lb. Carrots and gravy — Parsneps . — Beet root . — Vegetables for table service Green peas and gravy, pints quarts ^ I Sage and onion with gravy, ) I per doz. J do. for ducks & pork — Soups. Vegetable soups, pints, 1 per doz. 3 quarts — 0 1 1 1 I 2 3 12 24 s. d. Carrot soups, pints, per doz. 20 0 quarts — 3G Concentrated gravy, pints, } _ per doz.5 quarts — . 20 0 Ox-tail soup . . 19 Portable soup, beef, per case 4 0 Ditto, beef and mutton — 4 6 Ditto, beef and veal — 0 Turtle soup . . . .10 0 Mock turtle do. . • . .20 Portable soup and beef-tea i in skins for immediate {-SO use .... J Milk. Half-pints, per doz. Pints . _ Cream, half-pints pints Custards, half-pints pints 8 12 14 26 H 26 I'lSll. Fresh salmon, per lb. . .23 4523. With respect to the mode of finally cooking the various substances so preserved, there is little to be said: the different dishes of meat and soups, being already cooked, require only to be warmed up ; and a variety of jellies and similar preparations that may be preserved in this way will be exceedingly convenient to the cook for sauces and making up dishes. The milk and cream may be used for desserts. Sect. VIII. PRESERVATION OF MEAT BY POTTING. 4524. Wiial is termed potted meat consists of cooked animal substances reduced to a pulp by beating them in a mortal', and having some salt and spices incorporated with them. This pulp is afterwards put into jars, and preserved from the air by having a thick coat of melted butter or lard poured over it. Lean meat is best for this purpose. Potted meat is used more as an agreeable and occasional refreshment, than as ordinarj^ food. 4525. The following is the usual method of potting beef. — Take three or four pounds, or any smaller quantity, of lean beef free from sinevs, and rub them -well -with a mixture made of a handful of salt, one ounce of saltpetre, and one ounce of coarse sugar; let the meat lie in the salt for two days, turning and rubbing it twice a day. Put it into a stone jar, with a little beef gravy, and cover it with a paste to keep it close. Bake it for several hours in a very slow oven till the meat is tender; then pour off the gravy, which should be in very small quantity, or the juice of the meat will be lost; pomid the meat, when cold, in a marble mortar till it is reduced to a smooth paste, adding by degrees a little fresh butter melted. Season it as you proceed, with pepper, allspice, nutmeg, potinded mace and cloves, or such of these spices as are thought agreeable. Some flavour with anchovy, ham, shallots, mustai-d, wine, flavoured vinegar, ragout powder, curry powder, &c., according to taste. When it is thoroughly beaten and mingled together, press it closely into small shallow pots, nearly full, and fill them up with a layer a quarter of an inch thick of clarified butter, and tie them over with a bladder, or sheet India rubber. They should be kept in a cool place. Any other meat may be potted in a similar way, as ham, veal, game, or poultry of any kind ; fish also ; char is often potted ; also quails ; shellfish, as lobsters, shrimps, prawns, or crabs may be preserved by the same process. It is essential that fish should be potted perfectly fresh, or as soon as they have been boiled, otherwise they lose their flavour. When made for sale, they have usually too much seasoning; this is done that they may keep till sold ; but it overpowers and destroys their flavour. Some persons prefer, instead of salting the beef as directed above, which is apt to make it hard and less digestible, pounding it when raw with an equal quantity of fat bacon, adding the herbs and spices, together witli a few grains of saltpetre. It is then pressed into pots and baked, and when cold covered with clarified butter. 4.526. Reef potted to tasic like venison—Tliis is made of tlip (lank of beef, the Inside skin of which must be pulled off, and the meat slashed across, especially in the thickest parts. It must lie for six hours in pmnp water. It must then be salted with saltpetre, of the bulk of an egg, mixed with two pounds of common salt. White wine vinegar is to be sprinkled upon it, and it must lie for three or four days, turning it once a day. The brine is then to be washed aw.ny with claret. The seasoning must consist "of cloves, mace, nutmeg, white and .l.amaica pepper ; a qu.irtor of an ounce of each, beaten together with savory, thyme, sage, and the rind of a lemon, shredded together, .and then well rubbed into the cuts, slashes, and insidcs. It must be aftorwarils bound with ta]>e, the claret poured over it, tlie skins laid upon it, and baked in a long pot. 4.')27. rolled veal may be prepared as follows : — Take cold lillet of veal ; cut off the outside, and pound it with fresh butter, and a little mace and white pepper; then pot it, and cover the surface with clarified butter. Or, take one povmd of undressed lean vc.al, and put it into a stew-pan, «ith two ounces of butter, the juice of a lemon, fuid a small quantity of the grated peel, with sonic mace, salt, pepper, nuishroum powder, and