Book XX. 1046 STILL ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. a vessel of Cold water, the water will rise, on the principle of the syphon, pass to the upper end of the tube, d, in a continued stream, and descend by the longest leg, /, into the vessel, h. The pipe of tlie Moor's head is inserted into the receiver, i, for the pro- duct of the distillation. We have omitted the supports of these several vessels, as those can easily be imagined. 6222. Should it be preferred to have a tube in water on the principle of the worm of the common still, a form which admits of being cleaned out is the following: a a a. Jig. 795., is a straight pipe bent in angles, and laid in a vessel of cold water, in the same way as the spiral worm of a still ; and the vapour passing through this is condensed in a similar way ; but at the angles, b h, where the pipes join, there are caps that screw off and admit the access of a brush, or similar instrument, to clean the pipes. All these stills, the common still with the swan's neck, the alembic, and the Moor's head, when large, are fitted up in brickwork, and set in the manner of a copper for wash- ing ; but when they are small, they may be heated by a portable furnace of sheet iron, the fire part being coated with brick in the interior: very small ones may even be heated by a chemical lamp. 6223. Vessels called retorts are likewise employed for distilling on a small scale. The materials are put into the vessel called the retort, to which the heat is applied; and the fluid distilled, after rising in vapour and condensing, passes over into the receiver, which is kept cool. 6224. Retorts are made of glass or of earthenware. The first are used when no greater heat is required than what a lamp or a sand- bath will alford. It is a very elegant apparatus, be- cause, through the transparency of the glass, the ope- ration can be watched and examined. Great care is required in managing the heat, so as not to allow the substances to boil up and fiU the neck. Some prac- tice likewise is necessary to use them without break- ing, to which they are very liable, particularly if a drop of cold water should fall on them while they are hot. a, fig. 796., represents a common retort; b is one tubulated at c, where an opening is provided with a ground glass stopper, to add occasionally fresh ma- terials. If the heat of a furnace is required, the glass retort is coated with clay, or earthenware retorts are used. The lamp used for heating a retort may be a spirit lamp; but if more heat be required, then an Argand lamp of a particular construction, called a chemical lamp, d,fig. 796., with a short copper chimney instead of a glass one is employed; and the retort is suspended on the ring of the stand e. 62i5. Circular bands worked of straiu are very convenient to place retorts, flasks, or basins upon, to prevent breakage, fig. 797. Bladders are used to tie round the necks of bottles &c. Veiy thin caoutchouc is now prepared as an elegant substitute for bladder. Stajids for many vessels may be of three pieces of wood fixed together, as in fig. 798. 6226". In dislillivg with the retort, it is sometimes necessary to fix the neck of it into that of the receiver.'so as to prevent any of the product of the distillation escaping at the joint, as in ./?_</. 796. and 801. This is performed by put- ting round the joining a substance called a lute, which is comiwsed of various materials, according to the nature of the distillation. For common lutes, where no great degree of heat is employed, a strip of linen dipped in paste or starch is sometimes sufficient. When stronger lutes are necessary, clay mixed with drjang linseed oil may be used, or clay and sand : a paste of linseed meal is an excellent strong lute, but is so hard that it can scarcely be removed. Slaked lime and glue does not set quite so hard. Plaster of Paris will serve as a lute, and particularly if it be washed over with drying linseed oil after it has set. 6227. The thin pint Florence fla.<tkx, in w hich we receive olive oil from Italy, are extremely useful for many operations where heat is concerned, as their thinness enables them to resist sudden changes of temperature better than our flint glass flasks; but they should be chosen as free as possible from knots and flaws, and should be carefully handled, as they are not strong. Fig. 7U8.