780 Book X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. ■well rubbed into every part, moulding and turning the meat very often to open the grain. The meat is then to be put into tubs with a layer of large-grained salt between each piece ; the juices of the meat dissolve the salt, and cause it to form a strong brine. In about a week or ra.ther sooner, some take out the meat, and re-pack it in smaller vessels with more coarse-grained salt; and some add a little spirit of salt in this re-packing to improve the flavour. Cutting out the bones of meat salted in this manner is advantageous. The meat requires to be kept a month in salt before it is fit to use for sea or winter store. 4457. If the sailing is pcrfomud immediatelt/ (tfter the animal has been slaughtered, and is still warm, and before the fluids are coagulated, the salt penetrates rapidly by means of the blood-vessels through the whole substance of the meat; and this is the practice in Ireland in the provision trade. In warm climates, it is important to perform the operation of curing meat very quickly, to prevent putrefaction, and Mr. Jackson in his ■' Ketloctions on the Trade in the Mediterranean," informs us that this operation is admirably performed at Tunis, where the heat is 110° in the shade. There a good sized bullock of six or seven hundredweight is killed and salted in three hours. They use a good deal of pepper. 4458. The recipe given by Admiral Knowles for salting meat is as follows: " As soon as the ox is killed, let it be skinned and cut up into pieces fit for use, as quick as possible, and salted while the meat is hot; for which purpose have a sufficient quantity of bay salt and saltpetre pounded together, and made hot in an oven, of each equal parts : with this sprinkle the meat at the rate of about two ounces in the pound ; then lay the pieces on shelving boards to drain lor twenty-four hours ; turn them and repeat the operation, and let them lie for twenty-four hours longer ; by this time the salt will be all melted, and will have penetrated the meat, and the jiieces may then be drained off. Each piece must then be wiped with clean dry cloths, and a suffi- cient quantity of common salt, made hot likewise in an oven, and mixed, when taken out, with about one- third of brown sugar ; the casks being ready, rub each piece well with the mixture, and pack them well down, allowing about half a pound of the salt and sugar to each pound of meat, and it will keep good for several years and eat well. It is best to proportion the casks or barrels to the quantity consumed at a time, as the seldomer it is exposed to the air the better. The same process does for pork, only a smaller quantity of sugar and more salt will answer; but the preservation of both depends equally on the meat being hot when first salted." 4459. In directions for salting meat and other provisions, we often find bay salt recom- mended as preferable to any other; and it will be useful to consider how far this opinion is well founded. Dr. Henry has shown, by careful analyses, that the Cheshire salt contains less impurities altogether than the foreign or bay salt, and therefore that the latter cannot be stronger ; but the bay salt has not so much of the muriate of lime (now called chloride of calcium) and muriate of magnesia, and therefore it is less disposed to dissolve in the air ; and bay salt, from the slow way in which the water is evaporated, is crystallised in larger crystals, or is what is called larger grained. Dr. Holland, who seems to have attended much to this subject, is of opinion, that although the different sorts of salts may differ little in their purity, yet from the different way in which they are made, they possess a difference of form, as well as of compactness, which may fit them for various applications, especially in the preservation of animal flesh and provisions. But in every case, the more pure the salt is, and the more free from any admixture of alkaline or earthy saline matter, the more effectual it will be for the purpose of salting. The small-grained salt is better suited for table, the salting of butter and cheese, because it dissolves more readily and incorporates more easily and intimately with these substances; on the same account, it is the most proper for preserving the different kinds of vegetables. For the like reason, of the smallness of its grain, as well as from its consequent readiness of solution, the same sort of salt is best adapted for making the pickle for meat, and for rubbing on and into its substance; salting by it is sooner performed. But it is not so well calculated for packing meat, fish, or provision of any kind, as the bay salt, or the common large-grained fishery salt. This is not from any want of purity or strength, hut merely from the smallness of the grain by which it runs more readily into brine, which by being forced out from betwixt the layers of flesh or fish, by the pressure of these on each other, the different portions of the animal matter are allowed to come into close contact, without having any salt interposed. Whereas, on the contrary, when salt of a larger and firmer grain is employed, a considerable part of it remains a long time undissolved, separating the different layers or portion of meat; admitting in some degree the brine to flow and insinuate itself between them, and iidmitting also a constant new supply of saturated brine, from the gradual solution of the salt in the fluids exuding from the animal matter, to every part of the packed pro- visions. It does not appear, from all these considerations, that the bay salt, which is a foreign commodity, has any real advantage over the salt made in this country of as large a grain, either by sea water, or from the rock salt, and therefore it is desirable that the prejudice in favour of foreign bay salt should be removed, as injurious to our home manufacture. This fact is well illustrated by the practice of the victualling depart- ment of Government at Deptford ; there for several years the large-grained salt manufactured in this country from natural salt brine springs has been the only salt used for packing provisions, after they have been first cured with common salt, or that which is prepared by a heat of 180°. And though these provisions have been carried to the hottest.climates, the strength and purity of the salt employed in preserving them has never been called in question ; and the provisions are considered equal in every respect to that packed with the bay salt of St. Ube's or any other place. Indeed, what is now sold in the metropolis as bay salt is almost wholly the largelgraiiied salt of home manufacture from natural brine springs. Such salt, however, though it may be equal in quality, should not be chargeil at tlie same price as foreign salt. It is said that strongly rooted pre- judices in favour of bay salt exist in Ireland and Scotland ; but as salt of equal quality can be made in England, it is very desirable that the large sums paid for bay salt may be saved to the country. 4460. In domestic economy, salting is sometimes performed only by rubbing in salt; hut this is less efficacious than pickling in brine, or packing in dry salt, and frequently fails when it is wished to keep the meat long; it answers very well where the meat is to be used in a short time. It is desirable to avoid salting meat m hot weather, if it is to be kept for any length ot time; and in particular it is improper for the butcher to send meat to any distance in the heat of the day, if it is intended for salting; if the meat has been heated, it will not take the salt well. Autumn is the most favourable season for this purpose. If salting in warm weather be necessary, it should be done as soon as possible after the animal is killed; for if it hangs a single day, it runs the risk of being fly-blown, or being fainted in some part, and if once tainted, it will not take the salt If the weather be cold, and it cannot be salted immediately on being kUled, it will be better for hanging two or three days to become tender, as this change does not take place after it has received the salt; but the first must be guarded against.