Dhap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 481 2605. Fat hen (Chenopodium urbicum. Linn, and C. album. Linn.). — Both those plants are annuals, :ominon among rubbish of buildings, dunghills, &c. Boiled, and catenas spinach, they are by no means nferior to that vegetable. Several other native, but less common, species of this genus may be applied to ihe same use. 260C. Ox tongue (Picra lUeracioides, Linn.). — This annual, common m clayey pastures and wastes, when joiled, affords a good green. 2007. Sauce alone, or Jack by the hedge (Erysimum alcana. Linn.). — A biennial plant, found by hedges hrhcre the soil is dry and rich. The stem rises two or three feet high, with heart-shaped leaves of ayellowish- ;reen colour ; the flowers are white, and appear in May. The whole plant, as the trivial name imports, scents itrongly of garlic. It is occasionally used as a salad, boiled as a pot herb, or introduced in sauces. Neill ■bserves that, when gathered as it approaches the flowering state, boiled separately, and then eaten with loiled mutton, it certainly forms a most desirable pot herb, and, to any liindof salted meat, an excellent green. 26(18. Sea orache {.itriplexlittoralis. Linn.). — This is an annual, and is eaten in the same manner as the rhenopodium. 2G0U. Sea beet (Beta maritima. Linn.). — This biennial is common on various sea shores, and is also used ike the orache, fat hen, and white beet. 2GI0. Spotted hawkweed (Hypochxris maculata. Linn.). — The leaves of this perennial are eaten as salad, ind also boiled as greens. 2611. Stinging nettle ( Urtica dioicea. Linn.). — This perennial, found in dry rubbishy soils, and in hedges, i but seldom seen in places where the hand of man has not been at work, and may therefore be considered s a sort of domestic plant. Early in February the tops will be found to have pushed three or four inches, arnished with tender leaves : in Scotland, Poland, and Germany, they are gathered as a pot herb for soups, r for dishes like spinach, and their peculiar flavour is by many much esteemed. No plant is better adapted or forcing ; and in severe winters, when most of the brassica tribe have been destroyed, it forms an excellent esource. Collect the creeping roots, and plant them, either on a hot-bed, or in pots to be placed in a forcing ouse, and they will soon send up abundance of tender tops ; these, if desired, may be blanched, by covering :'ith other pots. We have known the nettle forced by being planted close to the flue in a vinery, so as to iroduce excellent nettle kale and nettle spinach in the last week in January. : 2612. Wild rocket (Sisymbrium officinale. Linn.) A common annual of a yellowish hue, from two to three eet high, with the leaves runcinated, and the seed pods inclined upwards, close to the stalk. It is sometimes ised as a pot herb; and the tender young leaves, in salading, greatly resemble mustard in its taste and lavour. : 2B13. Willow herb (Epilobium angustifolium. Linn.) The young and tender shoots are eaten as aspa- agus, and the leaves are a wholesome green. . 2614. Sow thistle (Sonehus oleraccus, Linn.). — A hardy annual, and a well-known weed in rich garden and leld soils. There is a prickly and a smooth variety, both abounding in a milky bitter juice. The tender tops f the smooth variety are in some countries boiled and used as greens, or mashed as spinach ; hence the origin f the Linnsan trivial name oleraceus. Wild Plants having edible Itoois. ; 261.5. Arrow head (Sagittarea sagitti/olia. Linn.). — The roots of this aquatic perennial are said to be very imilar to those of the West India arrow root (Marinta arundiuacea). They are sometimes dried and ounded, but are reported to have an acrid unpleasant taste, though this miglit, it is believed, be got rid of by .ashing the powder in water. .2616. Common arum (Artim jnaculatum. Linn.) This plant is very common in hedges and woods in jamy soils; in tlie island of Portland it is very abundant, and there the roots are dug up by the country sople, macerated, steeped, and the powder so obtained is dried, sent to London, and sold under the name of ■'orlUind sago. ;26I7. Bitter vetch, or mouse peas (Orobus tubcrosus. Linn.) The tubers are said to be chewed by the icottish Highlander as a substitute for tobacco. Boiled till a fork will pass through them, and dried slightly id roasted, they are served up in Holland and Flanders in the manner of chesnuts, which they resemble in ravour. Dickson recommends cultivating them in a bed or border of light rich soil, paved at the depth of ' venty inches, to prevent their roots from running down. Plant the tubers six inches apart, and three inches ^low the surface; the second year some will be fit to gather, and, by taking only the largest, the bed will )iitinue productive for several years, adding some fresh compost every year. i2618. Earth nut (Bnnium Bulhocastamim, Linn.) The roots of this bulbous perennial are eaten raw, id are by some considered a delicacy here, but thought much of in Sweden, where they are an article of ade ; they are eaten also stewed as chesnuts. i 261!). Meadow sweet (Spirtea Filipendiila, Linn.). —The tubers of this perennial, common in most meadows 'here the soil is inclined to peat, or boggy, are ground and made into bread in Sweden. J 2620. Pilewort (RanunculusJicaria, Linn.) The young leaves in spring are boiled by the common people Sweden, and eaten as greens. The roots are sometimes washed bare by the rains, so that the tubercles ! >pear above ground, and in this state have induced the ignorant, in superstitious times, to fancy that it rained heat, which these tubercles somewhat resemble. 2621. Orchis morio. Linn. — The powder of the roots is used in forming the beverage called salep. Though nported chiefly from Turkey, yet the roots of this country, either gathered wild or cultivated for use, might iswer the same purpose. This plant is particularly abundant in the Vale of Gloucester. :2022. Silver weed (Potentilla aserina. Linn.) The roots of this plant taste like parsneps, and are fre- ! lently eaten in Scotland either roasted or boiled. In the islands of Jura and Coll they are much esteemed, . answering, in some measure, the purposes of bread; they have been known to support the inhabitants for ■onths together during a scarcity of other provisions. The people often tear up their pasture grounds with ■view to get the roots for their use; and as these abound most in barren and unprofitable soils, and in iisons when other crops fail, they afford a most seasonable relief to the inhabitants iu times of tlie greatest arcity. .2623. Solomon's seal (Poly^onatum vulgare. Linn.). —The roots are dried, ground, and made into bread, ill the young shoots are boiled and eaten as greens. 2624. The marsh clown's all heal (Stac/iys paluslris. Linn.) A plant common in moist, rich corn fields, iiich increases rapidly by its creeping shoots, and forms on these, during the summer, a number of thickened, nngated, tuberous-looking buds, which abound in a sweet farinaceous matter. Planted in a rich soil, these ots become large and tender, and form a delicacy in the winter season. 2625. I'hc common con{frey (Symphytum officinale. Linn.) has tuberculated roots and succulent stems, ith abounding in farinaceous matter. When the plant is cultivated, and the stalks are blanched, they are )t only wholesome but agreeable. ■2626. The tree primrose, or German Tampion, (CEnothera biennis. Linn.), is a native of Virginia, but is ituralised in some parts of Kngland. Its roots are fusiform, white, and, in deep soil, of great length. Wlien e plant is cultivated like the carrot or parsnep, its roots are crisp and sweet, and fit to be used like those of e minpion. It is cultivated for this purpose in Germany. 2R27. I'ipers' grass, or Spanish salsify (Scorxonera llispanica. Linn.), once celebrated as an antidote for I' bite ol the viper, but now used merely as a dietetic plant, the roots being fleshy, and something resembling osc of carrots and parsne|is. The flavour of the rooti, when boiled, is very like that of asparagus ; and it very common on the Continent, though too little grown in British gardens. ihm. Goats' beard (Tregnpogon pratensis) The roots are thought to be equally good with the former. If It superior. I i