ON SUGAR. 721 I Chap. XIII. Sect. II. >MANUFACTURE OF SUGAK FROM THE SUGAR-CANE; AND THE VARIOUS KINDS OF CANE SUGAR. 4119. The sugar-cane {Saccharum officinale') is a species of large jointed reed or grass, I of which there are several yarieties ; but all of them appear to have been natives of the i-eastern parts of Asia only. In some districts of Bengal there are canes not much thicker ithan the finger, which give a juice that is sweet, but-which does not afford a crystallisable isuo-ar. Of the other sugar canes, one has a pale yellow stem, agreeing with the common ccane in the West Indies ; another, frequent in Hindostan, has a stem of a reddish-brown ccolour, giving abundance of juice. 4120. The yellow sugar-cane of the West Indies (^fig. 605.) grows to the height of six, twelve, and even twenty feet, according to the nature of the soil, the most favourable being a deep loam : much moisture is essential to its growth. It is propagated by cuttings only, and possesses a power of tUlering like wheat, though in a less degree. The canes are not planted annually ; but as they deteriorate in size every year they continue, they are renewed in ten or twelve years, or oftener. The cultivation of sugar- canes requires hoeing and weeding very fre- quently, a process which is extremely laborious, particularly when performed under a tropical sun. As they grow up, the lower leaves are taken off, and the wind having considerable power upon them, they are then supported by props of bamboo, or sometimes tied together by their tops. Twelve or thirteen months after they have been planted, the canes, though not quite ripe, abound in sweet juice, but mixed with much mucilage ; and if they are cut at that time, which is sometimes done, though improperly, the sugar procured from them does not crys- tallise so well on account of the mucilage. This ids said to be one of the causes of the inferiority of East India sugar ; if the canes, on the "Other hand, remain too long before they are cut, they throw out their flowers, and much "of their sweetness is dissipated. The joints in one stalk are from forty to sixty in number, jand from one to three inches apart. The young shoot ascends from the earth in an almost j straight line, and is surrounded by a tuft of dark green leaves. A field of canes when :jn full blossom is extremely beautifuL Of late years another variety of the sugar cane, a native of Otaheite, has in many pplaces in the West Indies superseded the common sugar cane, as it afibrds a somewhat iJarger proportion of sugar, is sooner fit to cut, and the juice is more easily clarified. 4121. When the canes are ripe, they are cut down close to the stool; the stems are divided linto lengths of about three feet, which are made up into bundles, and carried without Jdelay to the mill to have their juice extracted by crushing. The crushing mill is usually a pair of fluted rollers, of wood or cast-iron, and turned with levers by men who pass the canes one by one between them. The juice, as it is s«queezed out, runs down into a reservoir. These mills are worked also by horses, oxen, »wind, or steam. By the pressure of the rollers, the canes are not only squeezed quite ■'.dry, but sometimes reduced to fragments. The refuse, or macerated rind of the cane, iwhich is called cane-trash, serves for fuel to boil the liquor in the subsequent operations. IThe juice which has been thus expressed is strained to separate it from pieces of the ' cane and other coarser impurities, and then is conveyed by a trough to the boiling- libouse. 4122. In describing the manufacture of sugar from the cane juice, we propose first to :give the process which has been long followed in the West Indies, and afterwards to > mention those improvements which have been lately introduced. 4123. In the hoiling-house, the cane-juice is received into one of the flat-bottomed •copper pans or cauldrons, called clarifiers, of which there are generally three. The raw juice is so exceedingly fermentable, that in the climate of the West Indies, it wiU scarcely remain longer than twenty minutes before this change commences; and as the least degree of fermentation materially affects both the quality and quantity of the sugar, it is necessary that the clarifier should be large enough to work off the liquor with great ex- 3 A