1021 STOCKINGS. I Chap. V. CHAP. V. STOCKINGS. 6036. These, as now made, are comparatively a modern invention. The art of knitting : them by hand, with long wire needles, is supposed by some to have come originally from • Spain, although it is not ascertained that it was invented in that counti-y. A company of ; stocking knitters was established in Paris in 1527. 6037. Previously to the time of Henry VIII., knitted silk stockings were unknown in 1 Enwland; and Stowe observes in his Chronicle, " for you shall understand that King : Henry VIII. did wear only cloath hose, or hose cut out of ell broad tafFaty ; or that by : great chance there came a pair of Spanish silke stockings from Spaine." Thus, although : silk stockings had been brought into England prior to the reign of Edward VI., yet we I find Stowe commemorating as " a great present" a "payre of long Spanish silk stockings " : that Sir Thomas Gresham presented to that king. Thus they were articles of great rarity .and value in the time of Queen Elizabeth, for we are informed by Stowe, "in 1560 her : silk woman, Mistris Mountague, presented her Majestie with a payre of blacke knit sUk : stockings, for a new year's gift: the which, after a few days' wearing, pleased her High- I nesse so well, that shee sent for Mistris Mountague and asked her where shee had them, ; and if shee could help her to any more ; who answered, saying, ' I have made them very ( carefully on purpose, only for your Majestie ; and seeing those please you so well, I will I presently set more in hand.' ' Do so,' quoth the Queen, ' for indeed I like silke stock- i ings so well, because they are pleasant, fiiie, and delicate, that henceforth I will weare no I more cloth stockings.' " 6038. Stockings continued long to be knit by hand in the various countries of Europe, : and the machine at present used for weaving them, called the stocking loom, was invented : in 1589 by Mr. William Lee, a native of Woodborough, near Nottingham. This I machine, to any one who attentively considers its complex operations, and the elegant : sleight with which it forms its successive rows of loops or stitches, will appear to be one I of the most remarkable strides ever made in mechanical invention. Notwithstanding, Lee met with no encouragement in England: Queen Elizabeth, the patroness of art, was ■ then in her decline ; and her successor James did not perceive the value of an important manufacture. The encouragement refused by King James was offered by Henry IV. of France, and his sagacious minister. Sully. Under their patronage Lee settled at Rouen, where he established his manufacture ; but being envied by the inhabitants of that place, whose genius he had eclipsed, he was proscribed as a Protestant; and, concealed in Paris, he ended his days in secret grief and disappointment. Some of his workmen made their escape to England, and restored the invention to its native country. It was in Leicester- shire, and the neighbouring counties of Nottingham and Derby, that the first manufac- tories were established, and laid the foundation of the hosiery trade of that district. 6039. The invention of the stocking frame by Lee enabled the English manufacturers to export vast quantities of silk hose to Italy, where they retained their superiority for a long time : for Keysler, in his travels through Europe, so late as 1730, remarks that " at Naples, when a tradesman would highly recommend his silk stockings, he protests they are right English." 6040. In 1758 Jedidiah Strutt, of Becher, near Derby, invented a machine for making ribbed stockings ; and the spinning machine of Arkwright was successfully applied to the manufacture of cotton stockings. The factory at Becher is at present the most extensive in the world for stocking making. It employs about 400 silk stocking frames, which produce 200 dozen pairs of hose weekly, and 2,500 cotton hose frames, each turning off an an average nine pairs weekly, the whole amounting to little less than 100,000 dozen in the year. The stocking frame so multiplies the article, that stockings which could not be knit in a week are now sold at 9(/. or U-. the pair. 6041. The yam for the stocking frame is required to be particularly smooth and equal, and it is therefore spun in a manner different from other yarn, two rows being united to form a thread ; on this account it is called double spun twist. 6042. Sloe/ting knitling or weaving is a distinct art from cloth weaving, the manner of combining the thread being essentially different in the two. In the stocking fabric, instead of two threads, the warp and woof as in cloth, the whole piece consists of one con- tinuous thread, which is formed into a series of loops in successive rows, and the loops of each row are drawn through those of a former row. Besides stockings there are woven of the same manufacture a great variety of articles, as under waistcoats, niglit caps, drawers, petticoats, cuffs, gloves, &c., all of which belong to the branch of hosiary, a name which comes from the Saxon hosa, hose or stockings. 6043. Although the stocking loom luis in a great measure superseded the use of the