CULINARY APPARATUS. OUAP. III. 837 of the iron tube is open, and a gas pipe, f, conies up a little Fig. 690. Fig. G87. rig. i-m. one. The latter has sometimes partitions that divide it into several chambers, into each of whicli a ditferent liquor can be put, and drawn off separately, by means of stop-cocks. The whole apparatus appears in forai of a pedestal of any required shape, the flame being concealed in the interior ; and it is also evident that, on the same principle, other forms of the apparatus may be constructed. 4740. Roasting by gas has been perfectly accomplished by the method for which Mr. Hicks took out a patent a few years ago ; and this exhibits one of the most elegant modes of cooking. In this apparatus, fig. 688., the meat is fixed upon a spike in the midst of a circle of little flames of gas, and a bright copper cone being brought over the whole, the current of heated air thus produced, together with the re- flection of heat from the inside of the cone, are sufficient to eifect the roasting. Tlie circle of flames is produced by causing the gas to come up through a pipe, a, which is fixed on a table, and fills a horizontal circular ring like that of a table lamp, having a number of small perforations on the top, through which the gas issues. The copper cone not here represented, having an orifice at the top, comes over the stays, b c, and is sus- pended by a balance weight, so that the cook can let it down until it comes below the flame, or raise it up higher, in order to examine and view the meat. Beneath the circular tube giving out the flames, a shallow dish is placed, into which the gravy and melted fat fall, and then run out at d, into another dish, e/ is the meat stuck on the spike in the centre. Nothing can be cleaner or more elegant than this ap- paratus, by which a roast might be per- formed, if required, even in a sitting- room; and one advantage is, that the drip- ping is saved perfectly clean. But it is obvious that one apparatus is only calcu- lated for things nearly of one size ; and that for tilings of various sizes, several cones, or even several apparatus, may be requisite. With regard to its practical use, we cannot consider it as productive of economy, or as much more than an elegant culinary toy, which may, notwithstanding, be occasionally useful, as an addition to the usual means of cooking. Fig. 689. represents a gas apparatus for cooking, which is an im- provement upon the last, by enclosing the circle of gas flames with its reflecting cone in a cylinder of tin, from the top of which a pipe takes off the burnt air ; in this the gas is introduced below the apparatus. The door of the cylinder is represented as partly open. 4741. The fvllowivg method of boiling by diluted gas is said to have been first tried successfully at Edinburgh. A tube of sheet-iron, fig. 690., A B, is made about two feet, or two feet six inches long, having its diameter from three to ten inches, according to the size of the vessels to be boiled. The upper orifice of this tube is covered with wire gauze, c, of about forty-five wires to the inch, fixed to an iron hoop. Three projections of iron, a b, come out from the sides of the tube just below this iron hoop, by which it is suspended and fixed in a hole cut in the top of a shelf or table, i> e, for the purpose. The lower end way into it, and throws in a stream of coal gas, which mixes witli the common air in the tube, and ascends through the wire gauze. This mixture of airs is explosive, but if it be set fire to as it issues above the wire gauze, its flame will not communicate with the mixture in the tube ; because, on the principle of Davy's safety lamp, an explosion or inflammation of the gas cannot take place through the gauze. This flame, therefore, consisting of the burning of carburetted liydrogen mixed with common air, will give out a prodigious lieat,