i;hap. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. 227 iiany to be little inferior in texture, look and wear, to the Brussels, though much cheaper. ; t is made chiefly at Kilmarnock. 1062. Dutch carpet is a very strong and cheap carpeting lately introduced. It is lard wide, about three shillings a yard, all wool, and superior in wear to Kidderminster : i.ut only woven yet in stripes and chequers. 1063. Venetian carpets are of the simplest kind, the texture of which is plain ; a striped I 'oollen wai'p on a thick woof of thread made of hemp, cotton, or wooUen : and the warp ; i so thick as to cover entirely the woof. 'WTien the warp is hemp this cuts the woof, and occasions the carpet not to be durable: I cotton warp is better ; the best Venetian carpets are all of wool. A superior sort is aalled damask Venetian, which partakes of the character of Venetian and Kiddennjnster: Venetian carpeting is used chiefly for bed-rooms and stair-carpets ; the dust adhering less D) them than to others. 1064. Carpets made entirely of hemp were at first imported from Russia, but are now uade here : they are extremely cheap and durable, but they have this disadvantage, that, rhen soiled by the feet, they cannot be cleaned completely by the usual brushing given 1) a woollen carpet: they are, however, useful in passages, ofiices, or places where a hdeap carpet is required merely to deaden sound, and where the appearance is not important They are sometimes sold as low as 6(f. a yard, yard wide. 1065. An excellent covering for the floors of offices and business rooms is now made of LX)coa-nut fibre. It is woven open, to let the dust pass through; and it is extremely uurable and cheap : 2s. a yard, yard wide. 1066. A coarse kind of cai'pet for covering stair-carpets is likewise made oi New Zea- uMd flax. 1067. Drugget is a coarse woollen cloth, sometimes all wool, and sometimes the woof rool, and warp flax thread. They are stronger, and have less nap than baize, and among thher uses are employed occasionally as floor-cloth or cheap carpeting, or to cover car- eets, for which purpose they are woven from a yard and a half to two yards and a half idde. Milled drugget is a fabric lately introduced; being painted in rich colours, and very liiick and strong, it forms a very good substitute for carpets in small apartments. It is laade yard wide, yard and halfi and even two yards: the price very low. 1068. In laying doion carpets the most complete way is to fit them into all the recesses of we room; but this is also the most expensive, since not only all the carpet seen when iiid down is charged for by the upholsterer, but likewise aU that is cut to waste, which, II some apartments, is a good deal. Where economy is an object, the carpet may be jquare or oblong according to the shape of the room, but not fitted into the recesses ; and lae boards round the sides may be left bare, or be painted in oil; or covered with oil- li.oth, baize, drugget, &c.: or, lastly, as a still more economical mode, there may be a oDrder only of carpet round the room, and the middle part may be covered with a rrugget, painted or not, which will look as if the latter covered the middle of a large larpet: and this has the advantage, particularly for bed-rooms, that it is easily taken up ) I be shaken and dusted. With respect to the economy in not fitting carpets to rooms then square or oblong, they can have the wrong side turned up for a time to save the ibher side, which cannot be done when the carpets are fitted in ; and they may likewise ea reversed in their position, which will make them wear more equallj'. Thus a square mrpet may have its position changed eight times, and an oblong one four times ; whei'eas c carpet fitted to the room cannot be altered in its position, except the apartment should «e exactly symmetrical, which is seldom the case. 1069. In the wear of carpels much depends upon the manner in which they are kept Itean; if the dust is suffered to accumulate too long, they require to be beat with much )Drce, which breaks the threads. In some cases tliey are scoured; but this is very apt )) injure their texture. It is important to the preservation of carpets that the boards of loe floor be well laid: if they have not been properly seasoned when they were laid oown, they sometimes turn up at the edges, and occasion ridges, which will cut the rirpet.s, and cause them to wear there soonest. As soon as a carpet begins to wear, its ■ osition in the room should be altered, that every part may be worn alike. Thick and eaxy carpets do not require to be nailed down ; but those that are thin usually require sailing in sitting rooms, otherwise the edges curl up and are inconvenient; but if they •rt: well nailed at first and stretched, after a month or two they will lie flat with fewer lails, so that they may be easily taken up to be beat. The air of a sitting apartment is laaterially injured by the dust being suffered to accumulate under the carpet. Every irme it is swept a cloud of dust rises and mixes with the air ; and although this is scarcely •islble, it proves injurious to the lungs. Carpets in bed-rooms are seldom nailed down, md never ought to be, that they may be frequently beaten and brushed. 1070. 77ie size of the jiatlcrns should be suited to that of the apartments. Large patterns rre only fit for large apartments ; and small patterns are more easily mended : those with Q 2