Book VIII. 518 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. natural state, and which is essential to its being an agreeable beverage : for want of this air, the taste of distilled water is vapid, although it is stated by some physicians to be an excellent solvent of the food. In places where no water can be procured but which contain too much salts to be proper for drink, recourse may be had to distillation ; but then it will be proper to suffer the distilled water to be exposed to the air for Several days before it is used, and to agitate it by pouring it several times from one vessel to another, to facilitate the absorption of common air, and restore its usual taste. The purest distilled water is obtained from rain water, and when it is required to have it absolutely pure for pharmacy, or very nice experiments, it is usual to employ glass or silver vessels for the distillation. But this nicety is not necessary for ordinary occasions : any tin kettle fitted up as a still will do sufficiently well, and any one at all acquainted with the subject may easily contrive a method of having a constant supply of distilled water sufficiently pure by means of the common kitchen fire. This would be extremely easy in a kitchen where a boiler is attached to a range or grate ; for it would only require to have a pipe from the top of the boiler leading to a worm placed in any convenient situ- ation, and passing through a tub or cask of cold water, which must be removed when it gets too warm. Distilled water is absolutely necessary in the composition of medicines, since impurities which might be of no detriment to water for ordinary purposes might destroy or injure the properties of certain materials in phannaceutical preparations : hence, in the " Phar- macopoeia," apothecaries are requested to use only distilled water. When the water to be distilled contains carbonic 'acid, if the temperature be low, a small portion of this gas passes over with the steam, and is found in the water when condensed, a circumstance which would be injurious in medicines : for instance, if distilled water were used, as it always ought, for diluting solutions of subacetate of lead, or, as it is caUed, sugar of lead, a cloudy precipitate would be seen, owing to the formation of carbonate of lead, which would render this preparation less effective as a lotion ; but if distilled water perfectly pure be employed, no such precipitate occurs. This is the reason why the apothecary throws away the first tenth of the product in distillation; but for the purposes of drink, this very minute portion of carbonic acid would be no detriment whatever. The distillation should not be carried on till all the water in the still be driven off, because, when it is reduced to within about four-tenths, a decomposition of the substances left is apt to take place, and a disagreeable taste communicated to the product, which would defeat the desired object. 2900. Water, in the ordinary state, contains, besides common air, a small quantity of another gas, the carbonic acid gas, which we also mentioned under " Ventilation," and which we shall again have occasion to speak of under " Fermentation." This gas, which assists in giving a brisk taste to spring water, distillation drives off ; and this is likewise restored by exposure for a short time. Sect. III. RAIN WATER. 2901. Raiii water is the next in purity to distilled water; and it is the purest, and of course the softest, of any natural water. 2902. TTie origin of rain is water which is evaporated from the sea and land. By the heat of the sun this liquid rises in vapour, and after ascending to the higher regions of the atmosphere, where constant cold prevails, it is condensed into mist, which appears to us as clouds; these float in the air as long as the temperature remains the same, but when they enter currents of colder wind, or are affected by electricity, they are further con- densed into minute drops of water, which ultimately unite together, and descend as rain. One might expect that rain watei-, falling immediately from the clouds, should be abso- lutely pure, and entirely free from all other matter. This, however, is not exactly the case. It always contains a certain proportion of common air and of carbonic acid gas, which, however, are useful, and, as we have stated above, are the cause of its agreeable taste. But rain water, even when collected with the utmost care, is said by chemists sometimes also to exhibit traces, though very slight, of muriatic and nitric acids, together with carbonate of ammonia, A small quantity of carbonic acid being a component of the atmosphere, its absorption by rain is easily conceived; but it is not so easy to account for the existence in it of the other acids. Rain also falling through the atmosphere of a smoky town collects in its descent some impregnation from the impurities in the air above the houses. The quan- tity, however, of all these deteriorating matters is exceedingly small when it has been properly corrected; they can only be detected by the most delicate chemical tests, and are too insignificant to bo regarded in employing rain water for the ordinary purposes of life, when used fresh ; yet they are often sufficient to render it liable to spontaneous change when long kept.