Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 184 physician, was building a house in King Street, Covent Garden. His brother, who was a West India captain, brought over some planks of mahogany as ballast, wliichhe thought might be serviceable in his brother's building ; but the carpenters finding the wood too hard for their tools, it was laid aside as useless. Soon after, Mrs. Gibbons wanting a candle box, the Doctor called on his cabinet-maker (Wollaston) to make him one of some wood tha.t lay in his garden. Wollaston also complained that it was too hard ; but the Doctor insisted on having it made, and when finished, it was so much liked, that the Doctor ordered a bureau to be made of the same wood, which was accordingly done ; and the fine colour, polish, &c., were so pleasing, that he invited all his friends to see it. Among them was the Duchess of Buckingham. Her Grace begged some of the wood of Dr. Gibbons, and employed Wollaston to make her a bureau also. On this the fame of mahogany and Mr. Wollaston was much raised, and furniture made of this wood became general. 814. lioscwood. This is a favourite wood for many smaller articles of furniture, although it is apt to be too dark. It grows in Brazil, and is considerably more expensive for furniture than mahogany, partly on account of the price of the wood, and partly from that of the workmanship, it being very hard. Many articles of rosewood furniture are veneei-ed ; but the best is of solid wood. The colour, which consists of large elongated dark zones on a reddish brown ground, is permanent, except it be much exposed to the rays of the sun ; and it takes a fine polish, which is improved by slight waxing, or, what is better, by the French polish, which brings out the colour of the wood admirably. 815. Satinwood. This very elegant light-coloured wood, so denominated from its silky aspect, when polished, is employed for a variety of purposes in cabinet work, but chiefly in conjunction with other woods. It is very expensive. 816. Coromandel wood is perhaps the most beautiful of the brown woods, consisting of pale reddish brown fibres crossed by large stripes of deep rich brown, with various veins and spots ; the lustre silky.- 817. Cedar. There are two kinds of wood known by this name in cabinet work ; but neither of them is the true cedar of Lebanon. The sweet-smelling or peiKil cedar {Juiii- perus Virginiana) is a native of North America and the West India islands. The wood is of a brownish red colour, has a well known agreeable odour, and is very durable, being unattackable by insects. It is employed in manufactui'ing drawers, wardrobes, &c., for which it is valuable, on account of its property of keeping away moths. It is soft, but of a uniform texture and light. Some recommend that ail cabinets or sets of drawers should have some of this wood as a material in its manufacture. 818. The Havannah or Bermuda cedar {Jtinipcrus Bermudiana^ is another variety, a native of Bermuda and the Batavia islands ; and also emploj'ed in various articles of furniture. It somewhat resembles mahogany, but is much softer. 819. Oak. Our native oak is of a dark colour, and though much used formerly in furniture, and ornamented with carving, is now generally superseded by the Riga oak called wainscot, which is of a light yellowish tinge. This is usually varnished, which prevents the dust from filling up the pores of the wood, and causing it to become darker : or it may be well rubbed with a small quantity of the wax polish. Wainscot being of an agreeable colour, cheaper than mahogany, and not being liable to warp, is much employed. It is likewise used conjointly with mahogany, as in drawers, the latter constituting the fronts, the former the interior. 820. Pollard oak. This native beautiful wood has a distinguished claim upon our attention, from its intrinsic merit. It has been recently introduced as veneers sawed off from the stumps of old Pollard oaks that otherwise would have been consigned to the flames ; but which, when cut, are found to contain the richest variegated spots and figures, arising from knots and irregularities of growth, that, when brought out by polish, are extremely various and beautiful. This wood is however usually decayed in parts and perforated by insects ; and thefee defective places have to be filled up with the greatest neatness and care by the workmen, with other pieces of wood let in, which causes it to be expensive: various pieces are frequently veneered in one table top, to produce an elegant pattern. 821. Walnut tree. This native wood is now little used for funiiture ; but before ma- hogany and other foreign woods were imported, was much in request for the beauty of its grain. It is much employed by the coach builder, and for making gun-stocks, being lighter in proportion to its elasticity and strength than any other. 822. Elm. This is little used in furniture, as it twists and warps too much ; but as it is very tough, and not liable to split, is very useful for some purposes, as for chopping blocks, and tops of kitchen tables; and, on account of its great durability in water, it is employed in pumps, pipes, planks and piles in foundations, coffins, and sometimes for the naves of wheels. 823. Ash is a wood but little used in furniture, but, from its toughness, is useful in some cases.