G88 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL 3800. Curtifoa—Take halfan ounce of beaten cinnamon, and a quarter of an ounce of mjice, moisten tliem with .1 small quantity of rectified spirit, and beat tliem in a mortar. Wlien these are well pounded, add to them in tlie mortar six ounces of the external rind of Seville oranges, thinly p;ired off, and four ounces of rehned sugar. Beat all toeether, till tliey .ire well blended, put it into seven pints of prepared spirit, and let tliem intuse for a week. Distil off two quarts, if no milkiness arise. This spirit should be drawn strong, as It may afterwards be mixed with a pint of syrup, which subdues the prevailing flavour of the essential oil of the orange-peel. 3897. Another wai/.—Infuse five drachms of the essential oil of orange peel in a quart of rectified spirit. Add a few drops of oil of cinnamon, and two pounds of clarified sugar. Shake them together, and next day filter them through blotting-paper or muslin, and it will be ready; or the orange-peel may be infused in rectified spirit for a fortnight or a month without distilling. Dr. Kitchener observes, that " This liquor is an admirable cordial; and a tea-spoonful in a tumbler of water is a very refreshing summer drink, and a great improve- ment to punch." 3898. Esprit de Venus—Take a quarter of a pound of Juniper berries, and the same quantity of coriander seeds, an ounce of cinnamon, two ounces of celery seeds, and one ounce of the seeds of angelica, the external rind of a .Seville orange, and the paring of a lemon. Bruise these in a mortar, sprinkle them with rectified spirit, let them digest for a week in five quarts of prepared spirit, and with a gentle heat draw off five pints or more, if the spirit continues to run clear. 3899. Barlmdoes cream.—In five quarts of prepared spirit, put to infuse for twenty-four hours a dozen bruised cloves, a quarter of an ounce^f beaten cinnamon, and the same quantity of lemon-peel. After it has infused, put it into the still, and gradually draw off about five pints, or till a milkiness begins to be visible in the spirit th-it comes over ; or infuse these ingredients for ten days in proof s])irit. 3900. Crime d'orange.—Ovar adozen oranges sliced, pour three-quarters of a pint of rectified spirit, and a pint of orange flower water. Close the vessel carefully, and in ten days add five pounds of clarified syrui), a quart of water, and halfan ounce of tincture of salTron ; close the vessel again, and in a fortnight strain off the liquor through a jelly-bag ; when it has settled, pour it off from the lees and bottle it. 3901. Crime d'absijntlie, by M. Beauvitlien's receipt Take in the proportions of twelve pints (old measure) of French brandy and two of water; a small handful of fresh wormwood, or a large half ounce of the dried herb, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, and a drachm of mace. Infuse for some days, and, if convenient, distil the compound ; if not, infuse in a warm place for a fortnight, strain the liquor, and add a pound of sugar made into clear syrup, with five pints of water. This, from its stimulating bitter, is jnuch used at French dinners. 3902. CrSme de Ruse.—Put four pounds of moss rose buds into ten pints of good wliiskey ; let them stand for six weeks, shaking twice every week ; then squeeze the rose petals from the spirits : put that squeezed into six pints of water, wash them well, and squeeze the liquid into the spirits; pass them through the still once, and if it Is not strong enough, put it through again. Then take a preserving-pan ; put into it six pounds of bruised loaf sugar, two quarts of water, and the white of an egg beat up to a froth ; mix them thoroughly ; put it over a stove fire, taking off the scum as it rises, until it becomes quite clear. Then let it boil slowly, until reduced to a pretty thick shrub, taking care not to boil it so long as to colour the sugar; pass your shrub t hrough a jelly-bag, and put it into any open earthen vessel to cool. Then to every quart of shrub thus pre- pared, put a quart of spirit of rose, mix them well together, and if clear enough, bottle it \ if not, pass it through the jelly-bag till it becomes so, and you will have Cref/te de ri'Se. — Gnrd. Mng. 3903. Mode of making Cassi.—Take two pints of raspberries, two pints of blackcurrants, two pints of red cur- rants, two pints of water, and twenty pounds of brown sugar: put them into a preserving-pan, without bruising ; let them boil for halfan hour; take off the scum as it rises; then put it into any earthen vessel until next day, or till it is cold. Then add four pints of gooseberry brandy; and after being mixed, put it into a cask or large jar for six weeks. Pass it through the jelly-bag, and it will be clear; bottle it, and in six months it will be tit for use Card. Mag. 3904. Nonpareil Take a fully ripe pine-apple, and pare off the outside skin ; bruise it in a mortar; add one dozen and a half of sharp ripe white magnum bonum plums, and one dozen of jargonelle pears in the same state, quartered ; then to every four pounds of fruit, add six pounds of loaf sugar, and three English pints of water. Put the whole into a preserving pan, and boil them for three-quarters of an hour, taking off the scum as it rises. Then put it into a can or jar until cold ; add three quarts of gooseberry brandy, and let it stand for six weeks : pass it through the jelly-bag. It is very fine liquor—Card. Mag. 390.5. Admirable.—Take the outside skin from two dozen of fully ripe peaches ; quarter them, and take out the stones ; add to this the pulp of two dozen of ripe greengage plums, and one dozen of white magnum plums ; then to every four pounds of fruit, add six pounds of sugar and two quarts of water. Put the whole over a slow fire for halfan hour, taking off the scum ; cool it as the last, and mix it with spirits in the propor- tion. The liqueur which results deserves the name given to it. — Gard. Mag. SuBSECT. 4. — Ratafias, 3906. Ratafias are liqueurs prepared by infiisiiig the juices and kernels of fruits in strong spirit with sugar, and are therefore to be considered as tirictures sweetened. Though the liqueurs by distillation would be difficult to prepare in a private family, ratafias are easily made. For this purpose it is very important that the spirit should be of sufficient strength, since a strong spirit is enabled to extract certain vegetable substances more effectually than a weaker one. Genuine French brandy is usually recommended ; but as this is expensive, rectified spirit may be advantageously employed. The chief use of ratafia is for imparting an agreeable flavour to puddings, pies, and other dishes. .3907. Ratafia of Cherries, or red ratafia. — Take two quarts of rectified spirits of wine ; add to it two drachms of beaten cinnamon, one drachm of bruised cloves, and an ounce of coriander seeds, also bruised. Let them stand together well covered for a week ; then press, from equal quantities of morello and black-heart cherries, twelve pints of juice, to which add three pounds of powdered loaf sugar, and stir it till it is dissolved. Mix these with the spirit and spices. Take half the cherry stones, mash them in a mortar, and add them to the other ingredients. Let the stone bottle or jar in which these materials are contained be closely covered. Stir it up, or shake it frequently. When it has re- mained two months pour it off, press the residuum, and filter it. It may then be put into bottles and corked. Some add the leaves of peach and black currant. 3908. Cherry brandif of the ordinary kind. — Procure morello cherries, or small black cherries, but the former "are the best; pick them from tlie stalks, and pierce each cherry with a needle; fill bottles with them nearly up to the necks, and pour in as much of tlie best brandy as the bottles will hold. In three weeks or a month strain oflf the spirit; add