THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. 759 Chap. III. ■white flour alone; and this is still extensively used, particularly in the country. Bread made of this is generally kno^vn by the name of household or broiun bread. Brown bread certainly possesses some qualities peculiar to itself Its flavour is some- ■what sweeter than white bread, and it keeps longer moist, as it absorbs more water ; but when it dries it is apt to crumble; it likewise appears to agree better with some constitu- tions, and on that account it is occasionally preferred. One of the advantages of grinding our flour at home is, that it may be bolted and separated in any way that may be desired. There is nothing in the baking of brown bread different from that of white ; it is no^w frequently made and sold by the London bakers at a somewhat lower price than ■white bread. 4319. Brown bread loith the bran. — This is the coarsest sort of brown bread. If a Winchester bushel of wheat is sent to the mill, and ground, the meal, including the bran, will weigh fifty-eight or fifty-nine pounds. To make bread of it, mix as much of the meal as is required with water, and add yeast and salt in the usual manner. The dough before it is put into the oven wiU weigh eighty-eight pounds. It may be divided into eighteen loaves, which, when baked, will altogether weigh seventy-four pounds and a half. 4320. Pan loaves.—In many families a preference is given to ■what are called pan loaves, as being of firmer consistency and better flavour than loaves baked in the ordi- nary way. The dough is made nearly in the same manner as has been already described, but it is not so stiff as the dough for common bread. After having been suffered to rise for some time, it is divided into portions of the size required, and placed in eai'then pans, or in square sheet iron ones, tinned. The rising having continued for a short time, the surface of the dough in each mould is pierced with a fork or similar instrument, to pre- vent inequalities or blisters in the crust. They are then placed in a quick oven; and when nearly done are taken out of the moulds, and transferred to flat tins, on which the baking is completed. Iron ovens answer better for these than for the ordinary kind of loaves. 4321. liye, and likewise barley, are sometimes made into bread by fermenting them with yeast, in the same manner as wheat flour; but barley requires the dough to be baked very soon after it is made, as it grows sour almost immediately. Sect. VII. FANCY BREAD. 4322. There are many forms of bread which come under this designation ; and the bakers seem to vie with each other in producing new varieties. As few of these are made in private families, and as those conversant with the practice of baking will find no difliculty in imitating them, it is not necessary to enumerate them all. We shall describe those kinds that are in general use only. 4323. Bolls are made from dough of a less dense consistency than that which is in- tended for common bread, and when baked, they are more porous and lighter than ordi- nary bread. The London bakers prepare both kinds by the same kneading, and leave the portion intended for the lighter bread in the trough after the loaves have been put into the oven, that the rising may continue a little longer. When the rising is sufficient, the mass is formed into roUs, which are deposited in a warm place, and allowed to expand as much as possible. The baking is efiected in twenty or thirty minutes. 4324. French bread.—The French make a great many more varieties of bread than we do ; some coarser, and others finer than ours. To make French bread of a superior kind, put a peck of flour into the kneading trough, and sift it through a wire sieve; then rub in three-quarters of a pound of butter, and when it is intimately incorporated with the flour, mix up with it two quarts of warm milk, a quarter of a pound of salt, and a pint of yeast; in mixing these with the flour, a sufficient quantity of water must be superadded to make a dough ; after the kneading, it must stand for two hours to rise; it must then be moulded into loaves, which are to be laid on tins, and placed for an hour by the fire, or in a hot closet. They are placed in an oven (a brick oven is best) for twenty minutes, and when drawn are divested of the friable crust by rasping; but some prefer not to rasp them. 432.5. Muffins are made from a light paste prepared in the following manner. To a quarter of a peck of flour, add three-quarters of a pint of yeast, four ounces of salt, and as much water or milk, slightly ■warmed, as will form a dough of rather light consistence. Small portions of this dough are put into holes made in a layer of flour about two inches thick, placed on a board ; and the whole is covered up with a blanket, and laid near the fire to promote the rising. When this has been effected, the portions, which are now of a scmi-globular form, are removed to a heated iron plate to b& baked. When the muffins 3 C 4