ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 107G Book XXIL market, however, is principally supplied from the United States of North America, a country in which, from its rapid increase of population, there is a constant demand for cleared land for the purposes of agriculture, and consequently where timber is looked upon rather as an incumbrance than as contributing either to the beauty or value of the ground on which it stands. 6429. Tlie American method of making potash is to pile up the wood, as soon as it is sufficiently dry to burn, in large heaps, and reduce it as quickly as possible to ashes ; these ashes are then put into a wooden cistern with a plug at the bottom of one of the sides, and a quantity of water sufficient to make a strong lixivium is added ; after standing for an hour or two the plug is withdrawn, and the water holding the potash in solution runs out, leaving the earthy part still impregnated with some alkali in the cistern. This solution is then evaporated to dryness in iron pans or pots (whence the name potash) and hastily fused into compact reddish masses of semi-caustic p'otash, in which state it is fit for the market. 64,30. The common potash of the north of Europe is the impurest of all, containing nearly one-half its weight of earth, and is thus prepared. A large pit is dug, into which is thrown burning brands and the smaller extremities of the branches, and when the whole is well kindled, the pit is filled up with logs and other large pieces, which at length, though very slowly, are reduced to ashes. The coarser part of the ashes is then separated by sifting from the finer ; all the alkali that it contains is procured by lixivi- ation, and this liquor is mixed with the remainder of the ashes, and wrought into a paste. A pile is then built of wood, the interstices of which are filled with this paste, which being set fire to, the whole is reduced to ashes. This process is repeated several times, till the ashes begin to clot and become hard ; the most compact pieces being then selected are packed up for sale, without any further preparation ; the rest are lixiviated and boiled down to dryness in the usual manner. All the potash we have from Russia, Sweden, and Dantzic, is made in this manner. The Russian is the best of these; it is brought to us in large lumps, very hard and black, incrusted here and there with a white salt. When dissolved in warm water, it deposits a sediment of a blackish-grey colour, and the lixiviimi has a sulphurous smell, bitter taste, and a dark green colour. 6431. Potash may be made from potato leaves and stalks thus :—cut off the stalks when the leaves begin to fall, spread them out and dry them thoroughly in the sun. Dig a hole about four feet in diameter, and one foot deep in the ground, in a dry place ; make a fire with the dried stalks in this pit, and continue feeding the fire with them till the ■whole is consumed ; put the ashes into a vessel with water over the fire and boil them : the potash being soluble will be extracted by the water, and form a ley; pour off this ley, and evaporate the water by boiling; in the bottom of the vessel, when the water is gone, the potash in an impure state will remain as a greyish substance. To destroy the im- purities, calcine it in an iron pot, to burn off all the charcoal and other substances mixed ■with it' The potash will now remain in the usual state of purity of common potash. Potato leaves give a larger quantity of alkali than most vegetables. 6432 A very simple but rude method of effecting the evaporation of the water from the leu is practised in some places Tliey place a tubfuU of tlie ley near the clean hearth of a chimney, in which they dip a handful of loose straw : the straw, thus containing a quantity of the ley, they carry as quickly as they can to a bUzing ^re made upon the hearth, which first dries, and then consumes the straw to ashes, thus evanoratmg all the water from the alkali in the ley. They then prepare, in the same manner, another parcel of straw, by dip- nine it in the lev and consume it as the other ; and this they repeat till all their ley is expended. By this means the ashes of the straw, that of the fuel, and the alkali of the ley, are left on the he.irth mixed togetlier; and they concrete the whole into a hard solid cake of a greenish black colour, which they scrape oCf and sell for potash, but it is unfit for mimy purposes, and not above half the value of the foreign. 6433. The proportion of ashes afforded by different vegetables, and t/tat of alkali by each vegetable has been accurately attended to, on account of its great importance in the arts. BLirwan gives the following statement. Stalks of Turkey wheat, or maize Sunflowers ■Vine branches Common nettlo . Box S.iUow . Elm inspection of this table, it appears,, that in general weeds or succulent her- lbs. of lbs. of ashes. alkali. R8-G and 17-5 Oak 57-2 — 20 Aspen 34 — 6-5 Beech 10-6 — 2.5 Fir 29 — 2-26 Fern in August 28 — 2 85 Wormwood 23-5 — 3 9 Fumitory lbs. of lbs. of ashes. alkali. 13.5 and 1 -5 !; 12-2 — 0-74 t 5.8 _ 1-27 3-4 _ 0-4.5 36-46 — 4-25 f 27-44 - 73 219 — 79 i plants The weeds should be cut just before they seed, then spread, well dried, and sathored clean. They should be burned within doors, on a grate with a brisk fire and fhe ashes laid in a chest as fast as they are produced. Any charcoal found mixed should