Book VII. 416 ON FOOD. ported to Spain and the more southern parts of Europe, where the ling does not inhabit. The sounds and roes are salted separately j and a good deal of oil is obtained from the livers as well as from those of the cod. SuBSECT. 12.— The ToTsk or Tush (^Gadus Brosme, Linn.). 2162. This fish is extremely abundant in the Shetland Islands, where it is called tusk. It is a northern fish, found also in Norway and Iceland; but it comes no farther south than the Orkneys, where it is scarce. When fresh, the flesh is hard, and the fish are generally dried, like stockfish, without salt: when soaked in water, and boiled, they con- stitute the food of a numerous population in the north ; but in this state they form a very insipid, though, with strong constitutions, a very wholesome, food. They are brought sometimes from Shetland to London with other dried and salt fish. SuBSECT. 13.— The Coal Fish (^Gadus carbonarius, Linn.). 2163. This is a northern fish, being found in Spitzbergen, Davis Straits, and the Baltic. It swarms in the Orkneys, where it furnishes a great part of the support of the poor at a certain time of the year ; they take it, when under one year old, with rod and line, sit- ting on the rocks. It is there called the sillock: in the second year of its age it comes less frequently to the shore and is fished from a boat, being named a cooth : as it advances in age, it keeps farther out at sea; and, growing to the length of two or three feet or more, it is termed sethe; and then it is a very coarse fish. In this state it is split, salted, and dried, for exportation to the Mediterranean. In Edinburgh the young fish are called podleys. While under a year old and till two years, they are a delicate well-flavoured fish. They can be easily bred in salt-water ponds. SuBSECT. 14.— T/ifi Mackerel (Scomber scomber, Linn.). 2164. This is well known to be one of the most elegant in its form among our fish, and the most beautiful in its colours when just taken out of the sea. It was formerly supposed to be migratory, passing the winter in the polar seas, and travelling south every year to deposit its spawn in warmer climates : but the migration of these fish, as well as that of the herring, is now disputed ; and most naturalists are of opinion that, during the winter season, it merely retires into the deeper parts of the sea, at a distance from the shores. They appear on our coasts in the spring in immense shoals ; but their progress does not correspond with their supposed migration from the north : for they are first met with off the Land's End in March, pursuing a course from west to east, and are found in the bays of Devonshire about AprU. They are taken ofl' Brighton about April and May, and on the coast of Suflblk about May and June. In the Orkneys they are not seen till August. This, instead of being any proof of the supposed migration rather militates against the opinion that they come from the north. 2165. Mackerel are so prolific that 540,000 ova have been counted in one roe. Young mackerel, called shiners, are caught in August, from four to six inches long; and they are half grown when they retire to the deep water in November. Their principal food is the fry of other fish, and they are voracious feeders. Their ordinary length is from fourteen to sixteen and even twenty inches ; and their weight, a pound and a half to two pounds. The largest fish, however, are not considered the best for the table. 2166. Mackerel is in great request as an article of food; but it should be perfectly fresh to be in perfection, and no fish spoils more rapidly: in consequence of its being so perish- able a commodity, they are allowed to be cried through the streets of London on Sundays. The common idea respecting mackerel is, that they are in best condition when fullest of roe: but at that time this fish, though not impoverished, has but little flavour. It is in the early part of the season, when the roe is not yet full grown, that they have most fla- vour. There is likewise an after season, when, in October, they have had time to fatten and to recover after spawning. Full-grown mackerel are occasionally caught on the Cornish coast all through the year. They are taken with large nets; and in some years the quantity caught is enonnous. Mackerel is seldom salted in this country ; but it appears that in France they are preserved in that manner. The value of this fish was highly recognised by the ancients, who prepared from it a kind of sauce, called garum, still made at Constantinople, but now superseded through the rest of Europe by the anchovy. A variety of this fish, called the Spanish mackerel, is occasionally taken on our coasts ; but it is in no estimation. The Scarf or Horse Mackerel (Caranx Irachurus, Linn.) is a coarse fish, which occa- sionally appears in vast shoals on the British coast, particularly the southern. It is rarely brought to market, and not esteemed. In Cornwall it is salted and consumed by poor people.