588 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. was used because the vine did not grow in Egypt, a circumstance rather extraordinary since It was so well known in Palestine, and is found in Egypt at present. However this may be, it is easy to account for the use of barley for fermentation in those European countries which were not favourable to the growth of grapes. Tacitus, Pliny, and other classic writers bear testunony to the existence of an intoxicating beverage made from malted grain among the ancient Germans and Gauls, and this was no doubt at the same time generally known among the Celtic nations in the north of Europe ; it is not certain what grains were used, If any, besides barley. 3320. The possession of barley, or any of the farinaceous grains, supposes agriculture ; and in ancient Britain, while only a small portion of the land was cultivated, mead pro- duced from honey appears to have been long a general and favourite beverage. Raw barley does not readily ferment of itself, a decoction becoming rather sour than vinous ; hence the process of malting was employed, and the addition of bitters is of great antiquity. The name for ale, in the ancient British language, was cwrw, which still remains in Wales. The term ale appears to have come from the Danish oela. The English word beer is synonymous with the German bier and may be traced from the Saxon here, barley : a variety of that grain is still called here in Scotland. The French bierre and the Italian birra were derived no doubt from a similar source, and perhaps all may have had their origin in the Hebrew 13 com, pronounced ber. The drinks in general use among the early Anglo-Saxons appear to have been mead and beer: ale and alehouses are mentioned in the laws of Ina, king of the West Saxons, in 728. Wine was not in- troduced into this country till a date somewhat later. The grape appears to have been cultivated at an early period in the monasteries, and after the Norman conquest it became more general among the nobles and higher clergy; but the other classes adhered to their ancient beverage, which became more plentiful and more within the reach of the mass of the population, when, from the abolition of the feudal system, and the more settled condition of the country, agriculture was more attended to. The vineyards were neglected about the time of the Reformation, when many of the ecclesiastical gardens were destroyed. Ale then became the general and favourite drink. 3321. A variety of substances were added to the ale of our ancestors, as we have stated, for the purpose of overpowering the sweet mawkish taste of the liquor fermented from barley, as well as to take away that tendency to acidity which is possessed by all malt liquors. The use of honey in brewing is of great antiquity, both here and on the Con- tinent ; this is still found an excellent addition in domestic ales, and it is said to be used by some public ale brewers in Scotland and England. Dubrunfaut, in some experiments on brewing, found that he could make a beer much resembling the famous beer of Louvain by fermenting wort without hops and with the addition of honey. Bitter herbs were formerly infused in ale, not merely for ordinary beverage, but were added in great variety to compose what was called herb ale, a favourate medicament of those times : this was compounded by our ancient dames, as weU as by the leeches of that day, who were the principal herbalists and apothecaries : but probably most of these additions were made to the ale after it was brewed, and were not considered as essential to its formation. 3322. A kind of malt liquor called mum is mentioned among the ancient drinks of this country as remarkable for the number of its flavouring ingredients. Spiced ale is con- tinually referred to; and coriander, carraway, and other seeds were often added : also ginger, orange peel, orris root, &c. Many of the bitter substances, as wormwood, quassia, gentian, &c., continued long to be employed by our public brewers, imtil all but hops were excluded by the legislature. 3323. We learn from Beckmann, that the first notice of the use of hops occurs in the beginning of the fourteenth century, when it appears that they began to be regularly em- ployed in the breweries of the Netherlands. They were introduced into English brewing in imitation of the Flemings, and were first imported from the Netherlands in 1524. But though their efficacy was admitted in the conservation of beer, jet they were long sup- posed to contain qualities noxious to the constitution, among which it was said that they " dried up the body and caused melancholy." Accordingly we find in the household re- gulations of Henry VIII. an order to the brewer not to put any hops into the ale. They are first mentioned in the English statute book in 1552. 3324. In 1557 the national taste had somewhat changed in their favour and Tusler in his treatise on Husbandry thus sings their praises : " The hop for his profit I th\is do exnlt, It strengtheneth drink, and it flavoureth malt; And being well brewed, long kept it will last, And drawing abide, if ye draw not too fast." Their use was general in IGOO, and their mode of cultivation was pointed out by Walter Blythe in 1653, in the reign of James I. It is evident from this that the beer of the previous periods had been very different from what it is at present. Soon after the intro- duction of hops into England, so little did they suit the general taste, and such was the