954 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. parallel, and likewise on rolling them with great regularity upon the yam-beam. It is necessary, also, that the weaver should exert the same force in every stroke of the reed frame, in order to make every part of the cloth equally compact. Previous to warping, the yarn must be prepared by sizing or starching, called dressing, in order to cement all the loose fibres, and thus render it smooth, firm, and strong ; and the weaver suspends his operation from time to time, in order to apply the dressing to his warp. The weft of muslins and thin cotton goods are generally woven into the cloth in a wet state, by which the fibres of the cotton are rendered smooth and parallel, the eflfect of which is similar to dressing the warp. The operations of hand-loom weaving are simple and soon learned, but it requires much practice to perform these with dexterity. The great demand for cottons occasioned the power of water and of steam to be applied to the working of looms, which hence are termed power-looms. These perform the work with more expedition, economy, and accuracy, than the common hand-looms, and threaten, at no distant period, the almost total extinction of that machine, — a circumstance which has brought great distress upon many of the hand-loom weavers. Power-looms, worked without manual labour, were first tried by Vaucausin, 1747 ; but they were neglected till the idea again occurred to the Rev. Edmund Cartwright in 1784 ; and it is remarkable that, at the time when he made the invention, he was imperfectly acquainted with the mechanic arts. After having expended between thirty and forty thousand pounds, he was unable to make his speculation profitable; and to compensate him in some degree for his loss, Parliament granted him ten thousand pounds. Mr. Monteith was more successful, and in 1798 first applied the power-loom advantageously to the weaving of cottons. Various other looms of this kind have since been made, which answer completely for almost all the varieties of cotton fabrics, except delicate muslins. The steam looms are chiefly employed in weaving printing cloth and shirtings; but they also weave thicksets, fancy cords, dimities, cambrics, and quiltings, together with silks, worsteds, and fine woollen or broad cloth. 5607. Plain toeaving is when the warp and weft intersect each other in regular order, so as to produce an uniform surface, as in plain linen or calico. 5608. Figure-weaving is the producing of figures or patterns in cloth by employing threads either of different colours, or of different texture, in the warp or weft. In weaving, the threads must be so disposed that some colours will be concealed and kept back, whilst others are placed in front; and they must occasionally change places, so as to show as much of each colour or texture as is requisite to make out the figure or pattern. Such changes of colour or appearance may be effected by three methods. First, difierently- coloured threads, or threads of different sizes and substances, may be arranged in the 'warping, and require no change in the weaving: this will produce stripes in the direc- tion of the piece: or the threads of the warp may be of one colour, and those of the weft of another, which will produce a shot pattern. Secondly, several shuttles may contain threads of different colours and substances, and either of these may be used every time that a change of colour or appearance is required ; this will produce stripes in the weft or across the web. If this is combined with a variously-coloured warp, it will make chequered and spotted patterns of great variety. The third method consists in employing a number of heddle leaves instead of two only, each heddle having a certain portion of the warp passing through it, and provided with a treadle. When this treadle is pressed down, only a cei-tain portion of yarns which belong to its heddle will be drawn up, and the rest will be depressed ; consequently, when the weft is thrown, all those yarns which are drawn up will appear on the front or top of the cloth; but in the intervals between them the weft nmst appear over those warp threads which are depressed. The number of threads which are thus brought up may be varied as often as the weaver chooses to press his foot upon a different treadle ; and in this manner the pattern is produced. By combining all these methods together, the most complicated patterns can be woven. Tweeled or twilled cloth is a description of figure-weaving, depending upon the arrange- ment of threads that compose the warp and the weft These arrangements are very numerous, producing so many varieties of twilled fabrics, comprising satin, bombazccn, kerseymere, diaper, damask, &c. ; but it would be impossible, in a work like the present, to convey a clear idea of every variety. We shall confine our- •S'S^^^Si^^" selves, therefore, to a description of the general principle of this kind of weaving. We have stated above, that on examining a I piece of plain cloth, it will be seen that every thread of the weft r^T^^'^^^^^s^^s.^'S-^^^ passes alternately over and imder every thread of the warp, as shown in the woodcut, yii;. 782. at a, where the little circles repre- sent the warp, and the wavy line the weft. In twilled cloth the case is different; instead of the weft passing under and over each thread of the warp, it passes under one, and goes over more than one, sometimes two, three, four, or five, as l>, according to the Fig. 782. j^jjj^ pattern. Instead, therefore, of the reticulated ap- 1 ii