807 RATIONALE OF THE PROCESSES IN COOKERY. Chap. II. CHAP. 11. RATIONALE OF THE SEVERAL PROCESSES EMPLOYED IN COOKERY. 4636. Without entering into those minute details which will be given in another part of this work, entitled "Directions to the Cook," Book XII. Sect. III., we shall shortly describe the rationale of the various cooking processes, and what are the leading circum- stances which distinguish them from each other; at the same time, we shall take the opportunity of pointing out the principal chemical changes which they severally produce upon the substances subjected to them. We shall afterwards describe the utensils em- ployed in the several processes. Boasting. 4637. Roasting, as it is usually practised, is fixing meat upon a spit, or suspending it before a fire, and causing it to move round : but this motion is not essential to the process of roasting. It is sufficient that all sides of the meat should be by some means or other exposed to the radiant heat of a fire, while, at the same time, a current of air passing over the meat carries off all the steam and other volatile substances that are raised by the process. This species of cookery is therefore divided into roasting before an open fire, and roasting by enclosing the meat in a heated vessel, furnished with a contrivance by which hot air can enter and pass out again, such as the Rumford roaster, to be afterwards described. In both cases, the principle is the same, and also the effect produced. The first change in roasting is the melting of the fat exposed to the heat of the fire, while at the same time the watery fluids on the external part are converted into vapour ; but as the heat penetrates deeper into the meat, the juices undergo important alterations. The gelatine, which in the raw state was partly solid, is now liquefied, and forms tho gravy, which acquires an agreeable taste from its union with the ozmazome : while, at the same time, the albumen of the muscular fibre coagulates by the heat, and acquires a firmer consistence. The change takes place first on the outside, and it requires a con- siderable time before the heat can penetrate completely to the centre of the meat; but it does so at last gradually, and the steam which is formed in consequence, coming from the interior, and bursting out upon the surface, breaks and rends the fibres of the meat, loosens their texture all through the mass, and permits some of the gravy to come <,iit and fall into the dripping-pan, together with the melted fat. As the loss of this would render the meat less sapid, it is continually returned upon the joint, by a long spoon, being seasoned with a little salt, a practice well known by the term bastiny, without which a good roast cannot be effected. Towards the middle of the process, the intense heat begins to car- bonise the outside, so as to form a kind of crust, which is prevented from increasing too much by turning round and managing properly the heat of the fire, and by repeating the basting sufficiently often. Dredging a little flour on the meat, to cause a froth, is the last part of the process. The dripping-pan should be kept perfectly free from coals or ashes falling into it. 4638. The process of roasting before the fire with a spit, is performed in England with admirable dexterity, and little seems to be wanting in this respect by an experienced cook ; but it must be observed that it is one of the most difficult processes she has to perform, and that vigilant attention, with much practice, are necessary to make a good roaster. Minute directions for roasting will be given under the Section " Directions to the Cflok," Book XII. Sect. III. The following observations are of a more general kind. Managing the fire well, so as to have it clear in front, to get as much as possible of the radiant heat, is essential to success. A screen, covered with tin is useful, both to reflect heat upon the meat, and thus to save fuel, while at the same time it keeps off the draught of cold air that comes to the fire. To roast meat well, it is essential that the fire should not be too fierce at first, otherwise the joint will be scorched: it is usual to keep it at first at a greater distance from the fire. The cook is enabled to tell when the meat is suffi- ciently done, partly by its appearance, and partly by the time it has been roasting. The meat should not be too long exposed, even to a moderate heat, as that would dissipate all the juices, while it coagulated the albumen, and would dry up the muscular fibre. The sapidity and completeness of the roast depends upon the preservation of the juices, and that exact alteration of the exterior surface which is just sufficient to brown it, and thus develope, or rather form, by a partial decomposition, the principle called oz- mazome, on which the particular flavour of roast meat depends. It is proper here to state that, in many contrivances for cooking, merely enclosing the meat in a heated part of an apparatus, without any current of air passing through it, is improperly termed roasting; wlierea.s, as will be more particularly explained hereafter, it is only lialiiiig. Occnsiiinalti/ laree qunilynpeilx, tiicU ns a buUark nr sherp, nir roasted nilhv—Among the .lows, tlie laml) is ()l)li(;c(i to bi; rimslcil whole. It mny Iw IVmud ililliciilt fur :\n HiiKlish cook to bring a wli(il« lamb well dressed to table, but in tho ISast it is not at all inicumnion to roast a slieeii entire j and those who 3 I" 4