Book XXIV. 1150 STABLES AND MANAGEMENT 01 HORSES. Sect. IX. PURCHASE OF HORSES. 6827. Nothing requires more caution than the purchase of horses; and we give the fol- lowing hints, -which are extracted from the excellent volume " On Horses," published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge : — In the purchase of a horse, the buyer usually receives, embodied in the receipt, what is termed a warranty It should bo expressed thus : " Received of A. H. forty pounds for a grey mare, warranted only fiveyfars old free from vice, and quiet to ride or drive." It is important to observe that the age, freedom from vice, and' quietness to ride or drive, should be mentioned, because warranty as to soundness alone does not include tliese. Many disputes have arisen as to what ought to bo termed sound or unsound. A horse is sound, in whom there is no disease nor any alteration of structure which impairs liis^natural usefulness ; and he is unsound if he labours under any disease, or had any accident that has impaired his n.itural usefulness bv an alteration of the structure of any part of his body. The term unsoundness does not apply to any orig'inal delect in the temper of the horse, or any deliciency in the strength ,and powers of the animal. The principal circumstances which constitute unsoundness, besides the great number of actual diseases, are broken knees, wliich may indicate a stumbler, though not always ; for .my horse may meet with an .accident, and the knee may now be quite well, though it requires great judgment to distinguish in this case. Conlraction of the foot is sometimes, but not always, unsoundness ; for it is occasionally niitural, and not a fault. The following defects are considered to indicate unsoundness: Lameness, through .any cause; pw/Hjcerf/oo/; sand-crack; spavin ; splcnt ; ihicUening of the hack sinews qf the leg ; thrush ; ossification qf the carlilages 0/ the Joot ; defects or iliseascs of the eycs'j coughs, roaring, broken wind, or any defects cf the lungs ; gm'dding, or imper- fect mastication ; crib-biting; biting; kicking; restivcness. In order to complete the purchase there must be a transfer of the animal, or a memorandum of agreement, or the payinent of earnest-money: the least sum will suffice for earnest. No verbal promise to buy or sell is binding without one of these ; and, the moment either of these is eCTccted, the legal transfer of property or delivery is made; and whatever may happen to the horse, the seller retains or is entitled to the money. If the purchaser exercises any act of ownership by using the anira,al without leave of the vendor, or by having any operation performed or done to him, or medicines given, he makes him his own. The warranty of a servant is considered to be binding on the master. A man should have a more perfect knowledge of horses than falls to the lot of most persoai, and a perfect knowledge of the vendor too, who ventures to buy a horse without a warranty. Where there is no warranty, and a defect is discovered after purchase, an action may be brought on the ground of fraud; but this is diffi- cult to be maintained, for it is necessary to prove that the dealer knew the defect, and that the purchaser was deceived by his false representation. If the defect was evident, the purchaser has no remedy—he should have taken more care ; but, if a warranty was given, it extends to all unsoundness, palpable or concealed. Although a person should ignorantly or carelessly buy a blind horse, warranted sound, he may return it—the warranty is his guard, and prevents him from so closely examining the horse as he otherwise would have done; but if he buys a blind horse, thinking him to be sound, and without a w<arranty, he has no remedy. The law sup- poses every one to exercise common circumspection and common sense. If the horse should-be afterwards discovered to have been unsound at the time of sale when the warranty was given, the buyer may return it and recover the price ; but this proof is requisite ; coughing on the following morning will not be sulHcient. except the horse was heard to cough previous to the purchase, for the horse might have caught cold by change of stable. Although not legally compelled to give notice to the seller of the discovered unsoundness, it will be better for it to be done. The animal should then be tendered at the house or stables of the vendor. Should the Latter refuse to receive him, he may be sent to a livery stables ; for, in case of action, the expenses will be recovered with the price; and it will be prudent for the buyer to refrain from any medical treatment. If a person buys a horse warranted sonnd, and discovering no defect in him, and relying on the warranty, resells him, and the unsoundness is discovered by the second purchaser, and the horse returned to the first purchaser, or an action commenced against him, he has his claim on the first seller, and may demand of him not only the price of the horse, or the difl'erence in value, but every expense that may have been incm red. When an action is brought, the law-suit is usually very intric.ite ; a fair trial of the horse is allowed, and a certain time specified: but it is not alway easy to ascertain whether the fault lies with tlie horse or his rider, and sometimes the dealer, as well .as the buyer, is hardly used. If the horse is detained after the specified time of trial, he is supposed to be sold, and with all his faults. In London and in most great towns there are repositories for the periodical sale of horses by auction. They are of gre.at convenience to the seller, who can iitonce get rid of a horse, with which he wishes to part, w ith- out waiting month after month before he obtains a purchaser, and who is relieved from the fear of having the horse returned on account of breach of the warranty, because in these places only two days are allowed for the trial, and, if the horse is not returned within that period, he cannot be returned afterwards. They are also convenient to the purchaser, who can thus in a large town soon find a horse th.at will suit him, and by which, from this restriction as to the returning the animal, he niiiy perhaps obtain 20 or 30 per cent, below the dealer's prices. But although .an auction may seem to offer a fair open competitimi, there is no pl.ace at which it is more necessary for a person not much accustomed to horses to take with him an experienced Iriend heedless of the observations or manceuvres of the by-standers, the exaggerated commendations of some horses, and the thousand faults found with others. There are also alw.ays numerous groups of low dealers, copers and chaunters, whose business it is to delude .and deceive. The principal repositories in London are, Tattersall's, at Hyde Park Corner, for racers, hunters, and supe- rior horses; Young's, at the B.azaar in King Street, Portm.in Square, for horses of every description ; Dixon's, in Barbican, for machlners and good hackneys; and Morris's, in St. Martin's Lane, lor draught horses atid hackneys. Horses should be sent two days before the sale. Sect. X. FAULTS OF HORSES. 6828. Horses, notwithstanding their many excellent qualities, are lihewise subject more or less to defects and disagreeable habits termed vices. Of these restivencss is one the most dangeroiis, and is generally tlie consequence of bad temper or bad training. It appears in the form of kicking, rearing, plunging, or bolting, and but rarely admits of a cure. A good and determined rider may for a time conquer a horse, but he generally returns to his old tricks the first opportunity : and the best thing that can be done with a very restive horse, in most cases, is to turn him over to some other work. Bitmg is a fault that is not easily corrected, and which requires certain precautions to guard against.