INSTRUCTION FOR YOUNG COOKS. 879 Chap. I. joint of one -wing into the body, and through to the opposite wing. The liver and gizzard are placed one under each wing. In trussing fmvlsfor boiling, the whole of the leg, except the thigh, is cut off, the end bones of which are tucked into the apron. The breast is set up to look plump ; the wings, with the liver and gizzard, are placed the same as for roasting. The whole is tied in proper form with a slight string, which, upon serving, is cut and removed. In trussing a goose, the legs, feet, and pinions are cut off; and these, with the neck, head, liver, and gizzard, form what are termed giblets. Of a turkei/, pheasant, partridge, and moor fowl, the heads in trussing are not cut off, but are twisted round one of the wings, generally that under which the liver is put. 4923. Boning poultry is become fashionable, and indeed it is requisite when French dishes are to be formed out of it. It is an art tliat professed cool^s practise ; but in London it is generally done by poulterers, who have the proper instruments for performing it cleverly. 4929. To truss fowls, en poiite, as described for French dishes, a hole must be made above the joint of the leg, and the claws sltewered into the body. A string is passed from the head to the skewers, which preserves the fonn of the chicken while it is cooking ; but it is to be removed on serving. 4930. Woodcocks, snipes, and other birds living by suction, are never drawn. The trail, as the inside is termed, is considered as tlie most delicate part of these birds. Woodcocks, in being plucked, must have the feathers most carefully drawn, as the skin is peculiarly tender, and if torn, these birds when cooked are much disfigured. Moor fowl are trussed like the domestic fowl, except that it has, as well as the pheasant and partridge, the legs twisted together at the tail end, and the head twisted under the wing. 4931. A hare is prepared for cooking in the following mode. It is first to be paunched, by which is meant, as is well known, the removal of the entrails. This is sometimes done by the sportsmen in the field as soon as the animal is killed ; but if not, the cook should do it when it is brought into the house. If left in, it soon begins to spoil, which becomes apparent by tiie swelling of the body. When paunched, the inside should be kept dry ; and it may also be proper to pepper it, if the hare is to be kept more than four or five days. As soon as'the Hesh becomes dark in colour and soft to the touch, it is time for the hare to be dressed. To skin a hare The legs must be cut ofT, at the first joint; the skin on the back is then raised and drawn over the hind legs, and stripped away from the tail. It is afterwards slipped over the fore legs, and cut away from the neck and head. The ears are carefully extricated from the skin, and left on the head. When the hare has been well soaked and washed after skinning, it is ready to be trussed. The sinews of the hind legs it will be requisite to cut, in order to turn them towards the head, and to fasten them to the sides of the hare. The fore legs are also turned to meet the hind legs, and are fastened with slight skewers to the body. The head is thrown rather back, and a skewer, if passed through it towards the tail, keeps it in place while it is cooking. A stuffing is put into the hare, to keep which within the skin is sewed up. A string ties the whole compactly together, keeping the legs in place. 4932. Rabbits are skinned, drawn, and trussed in the same way as hares. The ears of the rabbit are, how- ever, cut off, whether they are to be roasted or boiled. If two rabbits are roasted together, their heads are skewered outwards towards the shoulder. StTBSECT. 6 Scalding and Singeing Pigs. 493.3. This is a business belonging chiefly to domestic life in the country. It is there usually performed by butchers, or by men employed in the out-door work of coimtry families. In towns, it is always done by the butchers. It will therefore not be necessary to describe the mode in this place. ScBsfiCT. 7.—Preparing Vegetables for Cooking. For the general principles of treating vegetables when kept a short time previously to being cooked, we refer the reader to Book X. Chap. IV. 49.34. Plants of the cabbage tribe must be immersed in water for more than one quarter of an hour previous to their being dressed. Long immersion renders them flavourless, although it may tend to renew the crispness they have lost since they were cut, and the toughness when eaten. 4935. Leguminous plants, as the peas, beans, and scarlet-runners, require less to be done than any other plants to preserve them moist. The pods for a considerable time keep the seeds from becoming dry. When peas and Windsor beans are shelled, the cook has only to put them into a cullender, and to pour over them plenty of cold water. French beans and scarlet runners are cut into short thin shreds and then immersed for half an hour or less in cold water. 4936. Oflhr esculent plants the potato is the most important. When they are taken from the winter store, they should be put into cold water for ten or twelve hours. This immersion prepares them by a gradual transition from a low tcmper.ature to th.it of boiling water. For turnips and parsnpps, the same practice of sr),iking them in cold water should be resorted to ; turnips being previously peeled, carrots and parsneps are generally scraped. Spinach leaves must be washed in cold water, frequently changed, to remove all sand and dust from their surface. Spinach in boiling requires no more water than that which adheres to its leaves after it has been thus washed. Asparagus, after the scaly covering on the heads have been scraped off with a blunt knife, and the stalks have been cut of ii convenient length, must be put into cold water before it is tied up for Ijoiling. The artichoke is rather improved by being cut a few days before it is cooked ; before they are cooked they should be well w:ishcd ; Ihcy require long boiling and a change of water in boiling. Salad plants must not be kept long, nor will any continued immersion in water do them any good when they have been so long cut as to be flaccid. SuBSECT. 8. —Management of the Contents of the Larder, 49.37. For the construction of the larder, and the general principles for the manage- ment of the meat in it, see Book X. Chap. II We add a few directions for the cook. 4938. Butcher','! meat, when brouglit in from market, should be examined and trimmed before it is hung up. All moisture .should be wiped off from its surface ; all bloody veins should be cut out, at least at the surface of the meat; kernels from the fat and pith from the bones should also be removed. Uncooked butcher's meat should also be exaiiiiiied