193 iBAP. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. i iicklime, and litharge, with a sufficient quantity of water, and a little pounded dragon's cod. This is applied hot to the surface of the plates of horn, and kept till the colour struck; where dark streaks are required, the composition is to be applied a second iiaie. This process, Mr. Aikin observes, is nearly the same as that employed for giving ■ibrown or black colour to white hair, and depends on the combination of the sulphur, hhich is an essential ingredient in albumen, with the lead dissolved in the alkali, and 11.US introduced into the substance of the horn. When a dark shade is required, the r/agon's blood is omitted. ; 873. Horn is employed likewise for a great variety of other purposes. Bows, having great lasticity, are made with it. The true bugle-horn was made of the hom of the Urus, or lild bull, tipped with silver, and slung in a chain of the same material. Complete suits scale armour are made of horn in the east. Drinking cups are also made of it by 'fftening, turning, and polishing. Sect. XL TORTOISE-SHELL. ?874. This beautiful material is the shell or outside covering of the hawk's bill turtle (Tes- \ido imbricata. Linn.), which is stronger, thicker, and clearer, than that of any other of lee tortoise tribe. A large turtle affords about eight pounds of tortoise-shell, which lies : scales, lapping over each other like the tiles of a roof The animal is a native of the isiatic and American seas, and is sometimes found in the Mediterranean; but its flesh : not esteemed as food ; and the shell constitutes its only value, ' Tortoise-shell is semitransparent, and, being variegated with various spots of whitish fbUow and reddish brown, constitutes, when properl)' prepared, one of the most elegant iticles for ornamental purposes. The ancients appear to have been peculiarly partial to liiis material, with which it is customary to decorate their beds and various parts of their irrniture; and, in modern times, it is extensively employed for snufp-boxes, combs, knife •iindles, inlaying, &c. This shell is capable of so far being softened by steeping in hot jater, that pieces may be joined together by placing the edges on each other, and sub- cting them to a powerful press and hot iron ; and, by the same means, ornaments of jld and silver may be applied to it. If, however, the heat is too great, the colours are luch deepened, so as to become almost black, as is the case with moulded snuff-boxes; rr tortoise-shell, being less fusible than horn, cannot be made soft enough to be moulded idthout some injury to the colour : accordingly combs of tortoise-shell, ornamented with "•len work, cannot be stamped out by dies like those of horn, but are obliged to have the nrforations cut out by drills and other tools, while the graver is employed for the lines 11 the surface. Sect. XII. WHALEBONE. ;875. Whalebone is a horny substance found in the mouth of the whale. This animal has 11 teeth, but, instead of them, a number of long strips of this substance, having fringes I: their edges, through which it strains the sea water, and retains the food contained in ( consisting of abundance of small creatures. The number of strips of whalebone amount about 300; and they are from twelve to fifteen feet in length, ten to twelve inches load, and from four to five tenths of an inch thick. They consist only of parallel fibres, innsequently are easily rent or split. From its elasticity, strength, and lightness, whale- r.ne is employed for many purposes: for stiffening stays; for ribs to umbrellas and irrasols; for the framework of hats ; and the shavings from the plane for stuffing mat- esses, instead of hair. When heated by steam, it is softened, and may be easily moulded iiie hom. Sect. XIIL mother-of-peael. «876. True mother-of-pearl*, a beautiful substance, hard, and displaying a variegated uy of blue, red, and green, is the internal part of the pearl oyster. It is easy to work. Id takes a fine polish. As it is entirely calcareous, it is easily corroded by acids. But ■e beautiful iridescence for which mother-of-pearl is remarkable, is still more striking in nme other shells, particularly in the shell, not uncommon in this country, called the sea ; and it is the inside of this, and not mother-of-pearl, which is now so much employed i japanned work. Sect. XIV. FEATHERS. ~877. Feathers are the peculiar covering of birds. In no other tribe of animals are they i?t with; and no bird is entirely without feathers, although some species want them on ^rtarn parts of the body; as the turkey and vulture, on the head and part of the neck.