Book VII. ON FOOD. 400 2058. It is gcncrallij considered that geese are in greatest perfection about Michaelmas, because then they liave liad the feeding upon the stubble after harvest; but, says Dr. Kitchener, though " a Michaehiias goose is as famous in the mouths of the million as the minced pie at Christmas, yet for those who eat with delicacy it is at that time too full-grown. The true period when the goose is in the highest perfection is when it has just acquired its full growth, and not begun to harden. If the March goose is insipid, the Michaelmas goose is rank ; the fine time is between both ; from the second week in June to the first in September."—Coo/('a Oracle. In England the goose is sacred to St. Michael: in France to St. Martin. The Michael- mas goose is said to owe its origin to Queen Elizabeth's dining on one at the table of an English baronet on that day when she received tidings of the dispersion of the Spanish Armada, in commemoration of which she ordered the goose to make its appearance every Michaelniiis. 20.59. Geese are called green till they are four months old. They are roasted with pepper and salt only, instead of being stufied with sage and onion like full-gi-own geese. These are of course early in the season, when the price is high. 2060. Geese are in some places dried and smoked: the smoked geese of the Orkneys used to be famous ; at present they are little used. 2061. It is not altogether on account of their 2ise as food that this bird is valuable; their feathers, their down, and their quills, have long been considered as articles of more im- portance, and fiom which their owners reap more advantages. In this respect, the poor creatures have not been spared ; urged by avarice, their inhuman masters, in some places, appear to have ascertained the exact quantity of plumage of which they can bear to be robbed, without being deprived of life. Mr. Pennant, in describing the methods used in Lincolnshire, in breeding, rearing, and plucking geese, says, they are plucked five times in the year; first at Lady Day for the feathers and quills; and this business is renewed for the feathers only, four times more between that and Michaelmas ; he adds, that he saw the operation performed upon goslings of six weeks old, from which the feathers of the tails were plucked ; and that numbers of them die when the season afterwards proves cold. We will not vouch that this is the present practice. 2062. The Canada goose is so numerous in Hudson's Bay, as to fonn a principal part of the food of the English there, who, in favourable years, salt and barrel vast quantities of them. They are chiefly taken by the Indians, who have the talent to imitate their cackling, and thus decoy them within reach of their shot. Capt. Ross describes them as of exquisite flavour. Their feathers ai-e sent to England. 2063. The so-called Solan goose is frequently eaten in the Hebrides of Scotland; but then' flavour partakes of that of their fishy food: this, however, they lose when they are salted and smoked for winter's store; in that state they are much relished by the in- habitants. We may just observe that this bird is not arranged by naturalists in the genus anas; it is, in fact, not a goose but a pelican {Pelicanus Bassanus). Sect. XII. Duck (^Anas Boschus, Linn.). 2064. The duck is a native of Britain, and frequents the edges and banks of lakes in most parts of Europe. The tribe called anas of Linnseus is very extensive, and compre- hends several families of aquatic birds, as the swan, goose, duck, teal, and widgeon, distinguished by being web-footed and having a flat bill with the edges divided into teeth. 2065. The wild duck makes its summer abode in the desolate fenny parts of our island ; and when the severity of winter deprives them of food, necessity forces them to retire towards the sea in numerous flights, where they find water unfrozen, and where they remain till the return of summer. The flesh of the wild duck is not so general a favourite as that of the tame bird; when they are taken on the sea coast they have usually more or less of a fishy flavour; but those from the fens of Lincolnshire are free from that rankness, and have a fine rich gamey taste: these are much esteemed as being very savoury, and are sold by the poulterers in London, at a reasonable price, in the season. There are many varieties of the wild duck in foreign countries. 2066. Great numbers of wild diir/ts are taken by a singular contrivance called dcco;/s, which are places into which they are allured by ducks bred up for the purpose. These decoys consist of a pond surrounded hy wood in a marshy country. From the pond several canals lead in different directions, and terminate in a narrow ditch that is closed at last with a funnel net. Over these canals arc airched hoops, and upon them a con- tinued netting. The wild ducks settle on the pond to feed, and the decoy man is concealoil behind a screen of reeds. The decoy ducks are trained so as to lead the way in search of food into the canals, and the wild birds follow ; the decoy man then appears, and