1007 Chap. XI. DYEING. 5932. Acetate of alumina is made by a double decomposition of alum and sugar of lead (acetate of lead), but the proportions of each vary much according to circumstances, and probably to the fancy of the colour mixer. It is more particularly important that cloth of any kind that is to be dyed should first be rendered white, otherwise the colour of the fabric wiU interfere ■with that of the dyeing materials, and the result will be uncertain. §ECT. III. PRACTICE OF DYEING. SuBSECT. 1. — General Observations. 5933. Colours mat/ be divided into simple and compound. The simple colours are blue, red, and yellow, and cannot be produced by the mixing together of different colours. Compound colours may be produced by the mixing together various colours, in different proportions. Thus, purple is formed by mixing red and blue ; green, by mixing blue and yellow ; orange, by mixing red and yellow ; and the various shades of these depend upon the proportions of the colours so mixed. Some of the compound colours are produced most conveniently by the use of a single dye, yet most of them may likewise be formed by mixing several. 5934. What is termed giving a ground in dyeing, is communicating one colour to a stuff, with the intention of applying another upon it, and thus producing a compound colour. When it is found necessary to pass stuffs several times through the same liquor, such par- ticular operation is called a dip. It is important in dyeing that the water should be pure. The earthy salts existing in some water, and rendering it hard, are very liable to affect the colours, and prevent them from ( combining with the cloth. Water that is muddy, or that contains putrid substances, is : also unfit: in short, water that possesses any qualities that can be distinguished by the I taste, should not be used. 5935. The substances commonly dyed are either animal, as wool, silk, hair, leather, and : skins ; or vegetable, as cotton, flax, or hemp. Great differences exist between the affini- ities for colouring matter possessed by these different substances, so that a process which * succeeds perfectly in dyeing wool, may fail when applied to cotton. Wool has generally the ^ strongest affinity for colour ; silk and other animal substances come next; cotton next; : and hemp and flax last. SuBSECT. 2. — Dyeing Wool. 5936. Wool, previous to being dyed, requires to be cleansed by scouring; it is dyed either i in the fleece, or after it is spun into thread or worsted, or when it is manufactured into c cloth. For forming cloths of mixed colours the wool is dyed before it is spun. It takes I up more colouring matter in the state of the fleece, than when made into thread, and less 'when woven into cloth ; but the latter varies in this respect, according to its quality. SuBSECT. 3.—Dyeing Silk. 5937. The raw silk of Europe is found to combine more readily with the colouring rmatter, and to receive a more permanent colour, when dyed in its natural state with its rresinous varnish on, than after it has been deprived of it by scouring and whitening ; the -■white China silk has a lustre superior to the European, and is therefore preferred for idyeing. The preparation by alimiing as a mordant is very important in dyeing silk ; •the solution of alum must be cold ; if the liquor is employed hot, the lustre is apt to be impaired. The colours used in dyeing silk are very delicate, they must therefore be idried quickly, and not be long exposed to the action of the air, that there may be no risk oof change ; on this account drying stoves are used. SuBSECT. 4. — Dyeing Cotton. 5938. Cotton, before it is dyed, requires to be well scoured by an alkaline ley, and after- •wards washed in a stream of water and dried ; but in some cases, as in dyeing Turkey rred, the unbleached cotton is preferred, as producing a more permanent colour. Aluming aand galling are the next preliminary processes in the dyeing of cotton stuffs ; after which lit is dipped in the dye. ScBSECT. 5. — Dyeing blue Colours. 5939. The only colouring matters employed in dyeing blue are woad and indigo. 1 Woad is a plant cultivated in this kingdom, and even grows wild in some parts of Eng-