FRENCH COOKERY, Book XIV. 924 if it be of the desired consistence, roll a small piece in a little flour, and put it into boiling salt and water for a couple of minutes ; if it remains firm it is sufficient, if not, add the yolk of another egg. The French employ calves' udder beat to a paste, in order to render the stuffing more compact, but this may be omitted, as the udder is not always to be pro- cured, and the animal substances above-mentioned answer the same purpose when suf- ficiently beaten in the mortar. The general principle for the preparation of stuffing having been thus explained, the farced meat may be compounded of any materials you may think fit, and varied as occasion may require; for the flavour of farced meat should be adapted to the viands, the zest of which it is intended to increase. Some dishes require delicately, others full and high-flavoured forcemeat. What would be piquante in a tur- key would be insipid with turtle. Forcemeat balls must not be larger than a small nutmeg. If intended for brown sauce or meats, flour and fry them; if for white, put them into boiling water for three minutes. ScTBSECT. 2.—Flavouring or seasoning Ingredients. Common thyme Orange th)'me Lemon thyme Sweet marjoram Summer and winter savoury Sage, tarragon, chervil Burnet, basil, bay leaf Truffles and morels Mushroom powder Leeks, onions, eschalots, garlic Lemon peel, and essence of Shrimps, prawns, crabs Lobsters, oysters, anchovies Dressed tongue, ham, bacon Blaclc and white pepper Allspice, mace, or cinnamon Ginger, nutmeg, cloves Capers and piclcles, minced or pounded Savoury powder, soup herb powder Curry powder, cayenne Zest Flour Crumbs of bread Parsley Spinach Boiled onions Minced potatoes Yolks of hard-boiled eggs Mutton, beef, veal, suet, or marrow Calfs udder or brains Parboiled sweetbread Veal, minced and pounded Potted meats Meat gravy Lemon.juice Syrup of lemons Essence of anchovies Mushroom and walnut catsup Whites and yolks of eggs Wines. Sdbsect. 3.— Quenelles. 5354. Quenelles of veal.—Take half a pound of any fleshy part of veal; cut it in slices, and scrape it from the sinews with a kn&'e. Boil a calf's udder in the stock pot, or in plain water. When cold, trim away all the upper part; cut it in small pieces, and pound it till it win pass through the sieve. Make the pounded veal into one ball, the udder into another, and of an equal size make a third ball of the panada. The object in making these balls is to ascertain the quantity better. Pound the three balls together ; the more they are pounded the more delicate are the quenelles. Break two eggs' whites and yolks together, and pound them in also, with a seasoning of pepper, salt, and pounded spices. Roll in flour a small ball, and poach it in boiling water to try its texture; if not firm, add another egg, without beating the white, which makes the quenelles puff and hollow within. This is a farce of general use. 535.1. Quenelles (if fowls. — Take the fillets of young fowls, and after removing all the sinews, cut the meat into dice, and pound it till it can be rubbed through a sieve ; then with eggs unite it to some of the panada and flavouring ingredients, pound all together and try a small ball in hot water; if it is not hard and firm enough, add more egg. When intended for ragouts, quenelles must be made very firm and hard. When the quenelles are used small, the farce may be more delicately and lightly made. Do not omit, amongst the sea- soning ingredients, salt and pepper. 535B. Quenelles of fish. — Take either the flesh of whitings, salmon, pike, &c. without skin or bones, pound it, and force it through a sieve or cullender, beat an equal quantity of pan.ida, and pass that also through the sieve; of butter the same quantity must be beaten with the two other portions of the quenelles, the fish and panada; to these add salt, spicery, and pepper, a table-spoonful of fine herbs pounded and cooked in butter; incorporate these ingredients with eggs; try some in boiling water, and finish with white of egg, if the que- nelles require firmness. SuBSECT. 4.—Farced-meat Balls for Pies. 5357. There are a variety of meat pies into which these farced-meat balls are intro- duced, as pigeon, chicken, ham and veal, game, &c. Beat in a mortar equal parts of fat bacon and lean veal to a smooth paste; season them, and add any herbs you may clioose, as parsley, eschalot, button mushrooms, green onions, a little lemon-peel chopped fine; mix this with double the quantity of the prepared panada; incorporate these well together with yolk and white of egg beaten up together, and, with a little flour, roll them into balls. It is always proper to poach them for a minute or two in salt and water to make them preserve their shape, and to prevent them from sticking together. .MSS. Egg An//s. —Beat in a mortar the yolks of four boiled eggs with some pepper and salt and a tea- spoonful of flour; mix them with a raw egg, yolk and white beat together. Roll them into balls, smaller than