BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VHL 634 must be pursued, according to the class of wine intended to be made, and whether they are to be brisk, dry, or sweet; and that no positive rules can be given applicable to all cases. The manner of modifying the must and the fermentation for each of these is the same as in the case of grape wine, and we need not repeat the general principles, but refer the reader to what has already been said on the subject, adding, however, a few remarks. 3559. Wine of the brisk kind is yenerallj/ made here from gooseberries, but it may also be produced from currants, or any other friiit, care being taken not to use it too ripe, and by following the directions already given. This modification of wine is 'one of the most esteemed, and deservedly so, and therefore the principles for forming it ought to be carefully studied, since failure can only occur from negligence or ignorance in the conduct of the process. Sweet wines may be made from any ripe fruit, sufficient sugar being added, and the fermentation stopped in time not to decompose too much, which is effected by racking off the wine from the lees into a clean cask ; and even to remove what still remains of the ferment by clarifying with isinglass or white of eggs. 3560. Dry and light wines, like Hock and Grave, have seldom been successfully produced by our domestic wine-makers, except from grapes. The reasons are chiefly that they require the saccharine matter to be completely decomposed by fermentation, as we have already explained; but this has seldom been sufficiently attended to, nor the subsequent operations of racking, sulphuring, and fining: too much sugar has also in general been employed; from which they have turned sour, or have remained sweet. These wines are the most difficult to fabricate, and success is unattainable except all the circumstances which we have pointed out are accurately attended to. Wines that are dry and strong, such as Madeira and sherry, are seldom attempted with our fruits ; but these might also be made by increasing the proportion of sugar and ferment, if due attention be paid to every part of the processes. With respect to strength, we have already explained that the sugar must be chiefly depended upon for giving it. 3561. In proportioning the sugar according to the desired strength of the wine. Dr. Mac- culloch gives the following rules: —Two pounds of sugar, added to a gallon of a compound containing all the other ingredients requisite to a perfect fernientation, produce a liquor equal in strength to the lightest class of Bordeaux white wines. Three pounds' produce are equal in strength to the wine known by the name of white Hermitage; and from four, if fermented till dry, a wine resembling in strength the stronger Sicilian wines, that of Marsala'for example, or the Cape Madeira, is produced. 3562. One of the faults frequently occurring in our domestic wines is excessive sweetness, arising from too large a proportion of sugar having been employed compared with that of the fruit juice, or from the imperfect fermentation which the fluid has undergone. If it arise from the first cause, it is obvious that the evil might have been avoided at first by reducing the quantity of sugar, and increasing that of the ferment and tartar: if it pro- ceed from the latter cause, the fermentation might have been prolonged. 3563. But this sweetness is often intentional, for the purpose of concealing much acidity. We have stated that the wines made from our fruits cannot be entirely freed from the acids contained in them, and that to cover this, a super-abundant sweetness is fouud necessary. We are prevented from deriving all the advantage which we might from the natural sugar existing in our fruits, because, were we to depend upon fruit juice alone, we should introduce too much malic acid into our wines, no means being known for separating this easily. Hence we are obliged to add artificial sugar in the must, and to dilute it with water, that we may have sufficient spirit with as little malic acid as possible.. In making currant or gooseberry wine, if the fermentation was suffered to go on till the whole of the saccharine matter was converted into alcohol, the wine would be very acid, there being then no sugar to conceal the taste. It is therefore necessary to arrest the process, during the progress of tlie fermentation, long before the whole of the saccharine matter is consumed. There is therefore little natural strength in such wine, and it will not keep long, for the remaining free sugar is converted into acid by the slow fenucntation, and the taste of the acid is perceived. Brandy is then frequently added to increase the strength of the wine, and to retard the slow fermentative process, and consequently the conversion of the remaining free sugar into alcohol, and it thus hinders the wine from tasting sour so soon ; but the bad effects of brandy have been already i)ointed out. 35G4. But it is generally prudent to have the full (/uantlty of sugar; for we have said that there is seldom such a balance of the two fermenting substances, the saccharine matter and the yeast, that both are perfectly neutralised, and it is not possible always to deter- mine if this has been the case ; for the palate is unable to detect a very small portion of sugar, as its taste is masked by that of the wine ; and the fermenting principle is still less ascertainable by the taste. If the wine be sweet after the fernientation, it is evident tliat some sugar remains undecomposed, and that all the ferment has been expended. In this