CARRIAGES. 1114 Book XXIII. the phaeton is generally double-bodied, that is, having another scat behind : but the seats may shift their places, in Fig. 860. order that a servant may drive in bad weather. Though convenient for town use, or for travelling, being light with rather large wheels, yet it is not very grace- ful, and is now much superseded by the britzschka. 66.39. The under-spring phaeUm is suspended on C springs, and has likewise double elbow mail, or elliptic springs 6640. The shooting phaeton is fitted up with a receptacle in the body to carry dogs, game, &c. 6641. The britzschka is a carriage lately introduced from Germany, and on account of its great convenience has become ^.^mmmmm,^ extremely common. Fig. 861. re- p iiini w presents the original German britzschka. The body is so long that the traveller may recline at full length and sleep, a conveni- ence not possessed by other car- riages. It has a perch with C springs: the head is sometimes fixed as in the wood-cut, but is sometimes also movable : for cold weather it is closed in front by an ingeniously-contrived shutter, with panes of glass, which folds up in a recess, and which, when let down, fills the whole front, closing with a tight joint. The wheels are rather low, and the driver some- times sits in the body of the carriage, or he may have a seat in front. The ])art of the body not sheltered by the head is covered by a movable wooden flap, jvhich folds back in several pieces. 6642. The britzschkas made in England have nearly the same form, fig. 862., but are moi e convenient. The head is always a movable calash, and there is a place for the driver in front, and a seat for servants behind. Though in wet weather, when the head and glass frame are up and the knee-flap down, the body will hold but two persons, yet in fine weather two more can be accommodated, by raising the knee-flap, which folds back, so that part of it padded on the lower side stands upright, as in the dotted line a, and serves for a back to those who are on an additional seat: some of these britzschkas are also made with additional under-springs, or put upon elliptic springs. For tra- velling sometimes the driver's scat in front is removed, to give room for more trunks, the driver sitting on one of the horses. 6643. The vis-a-vis was a carriage formerly fashionable, though now not in use. It