BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. MUUE Fig. 551. grains, a basket, e, is placed within the mash tub, into which the spigot and faucet is driven. 3243. A simple and old method for the same purpose, used in many farm, houses, is the following: — In the middle of tlie bottotn of tlie mash tub, a,fig. 55,3., there is a coniciU liolc b, about two inches wide across, to draw the wort off tlirouKh. Into tliis hoie goes a sticlt called tlie tap tree, c, a foot or two longer than the tub is iiigli, and about two inches thick, and tapered for about eiglit inches upward at the end th.it goes into the hole, which at last it fills up as closely as a cork. Upon the whole, before any thing else is put into the tub, lay a little bundle of fine birch or heath, d (straw may do), about half the bulk of a birch broom, and well tied .it both ends. This being laid over the hole, to keep back the grains as the wort goes out, put the tapered end of the stick through the bircli into tlie liole, and tlius cork it up. To pre- vent the bircli rising v/ith the stick when you lift it up to let off the wort, a weight, c, must be plaeed upon the birch, and tliis is best done by making a leaden colhir or ring, weighing three or four pounds, to slipover tile stick, and slide down upon the birch. Some make sliift with the iron box of a cart wheel ; but any contrivance will do tliat will prevent the bircli from rising. To keep the stick at any height you may require. aB you are driiwing off the wort, the following method in.iy be employed: — Take a rod or branch of ash, hazel, or almost any wood ; let it be a foot or two longer than your mashing tub is wide over the top ; split it down the middle, as for malung hoops ; tie it with a string at each end ; lay it across the mashing tub ; pull it open in the middle, and let the upper part of the wort-stick come through it, as is represented at/. Now, when you raise that stick to let the wort off, let the split stick close upon it, and by its spring it wili hold it up any height you wisli ; but this, though an old contrivance, is one which would scarcely be used if a spigot and faucet, wiili a wicker basket, which oniy cost eigliteen pence, can be got; still it is useful to know every resource. From this apparatus, brewers still term letting off the wort setting tap. 3244. Some recommend for a mash tun a vessel made in the following manner :— k. wooden vessel,ai,^jf. .554 , is provided with a double bottom, the uppermost one being pierced _c with holes. A pipe or trough, e, goes down from the top to the space between the two bottoms. The grist being put into the mash tun, water of the proper heat is poured into the pipe, and it descends into the space between c and d, and then ascends, by hydrostatic pressure, through the holes in the uppermost bottom, c, and, com- ing into contact with the grist, floats it, as the latter, when dry, is specifically lighter than water. In no great length of time, the water begins to be absorbed by the malt, which then falls down. The use of the two bottoms is, that the wort may pass down into the space between them, and be drawn off clear, and the water is introduced below the malt instead of the top, to avoid pressing the malt into the holes of the double bottom, and thus choking them up. The mashing tun is in general a little wider at top than at the bottom, though some prefer the contrary, that is, widest at the bottom, to prevent the grist from being compressed : it need not be quite so deep as it is wide across. The holes in the false bottom, if in wood, should be burned with a hot iron, and not bored, and should be a little conical, that is, wider below than above. The diameter of the holes at the upper part should not be above an eighth of an inch. 3245. As it is sometimes the case that a quantity of the grains of malt will get through the holes in the false bottom, which are difficult to get out, except tills bottom be loose, some prefer the following contrivance : — Four pieces of wood bored full of holes are nailed together in the form of an obtuse wedge, fig S.'iS., and tliis is placed over the hole by which the mash is drawn off. This simple apparatus stops the grains from passing out as effectually as a double bottom, and as it is merely put down loose, th&difflciilty just mentioned is ob- viated. It is necessary to state that tliis perforated wood must be fixed by a hook and eye, bolt, or some such contrivance, to prevent its floating. Its size must be proportioned to the quantity of the mash. 3246. A strong stand, a, fig. S.'ie.j/or the mash tun, b, if large, is necessary : two stools may do for a small brewing. The stand should be high enough to admit of a tub standing under the mashing tun to receive the wort; but it should not be too high, or it will increase the labour of lifting up the water. 3247. A shallow tub, called an under-back, c,fig. 55G., is placed below the mashing tun for the wort to run off into when drawn from the grains. Its size is proportioned to that of the mashing tun. It is a best to be large enough to hold all the wort of one mashing, that the wort may not be cooled by being — transferred into other vessels jirevious to boiling. But some make .shift with it of smaller size and collect the wort into the fermenting vat, until it can be boiled. In small brewings, a good sized washing ttib will do very well. . Fig. 555. Fin-556.