THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Book XXV. 1184 extremes of heat in summer, and cold in winter; this is, in general, preferable to wood, though some ingenious kinds have been constructed of this substance. Hives with glass have been made for the purpose of studying the habits of the bee, but only with this view. A superior kind has been invented by Mr. Nutt, and is described in his work on bees' The size of the hives should correspond, as nearly as possible, with that of the swarms. Bees will endeavour to fill with combs whatever hive they are put into before they begin to gather honey. Owing to this, when a hive is too large for its inhabitants, the time for collecting their winter store is spent in unprofitable labour, and starvation is the con- sequence. This evil also extends to occasioning late swarming the next summer : it being long before the hive becomes so filled with young bees as to produce a necessity for emi- gration, from which cause the season is too far advanced for the young colonies to procure a winter stock. A full sized straw hive will hold three pecks ; a small sized one from one and a half to two pecks. When there are many hives, it is usual to collect them together in a bee-house or apiary, for the greater facility of protecting them from the cold or thieves, and greater facility in examining their condition and progress. It may consist of a wooden closet as above-mentioned, or merely a simple recess in a wall exposed to the south, and with shutters to exclude the sun occasionally in summer, and the cold in winter. The hives are often placed in the kitchen garden, where they are considered as useful, by aiding the impregnation of flowers. 7013. The sivarming of bees generally commences in June ; in some seasons earlier, and in cold climates or seasons later. It is preceded by their hanging in a kind of string. Hives should, if possible, be placed in the neighbourhood of gooseberry or currant bushes rather than of large trees, as the bees are sure to fly to the first tree they can find. When the bees are observed hanging together in a string, they should be carefully watched, till the swarm has settled, which it generally does on a bush or a tree, when a new clean hive should be brought and placed over the bees, for them to go up into ; or the swarm should be swept into the hive, which must be immediately carried to the place where it is to stand. It sometimes happens that the swarm will leave the old hive and return again several times; owing to the queen not having accompanied them, or from her having dropped on the ground, when too yoimg and weak to fly to a distance. It was formerly the practice to wash the hive with beer, or sugar and water, and after the bees were hived, to let stand till evening before it was removed to the place where it was to remain ; but both these practices are now thought unnecessary, and the latter even injurious. Should the weather, for some days after swarming, be unfavourable for the bees' going out, they must be fed with care until it clears up, otherwise the young swarm will run a risk of dying. 7014. 77ie honei/ is taken from the hive in two different modes. The most ancient, and still the most usual mode, is by suffocating the bees, which is done in the following manner, in the autumn, generally in October. Linen rags, smeared with melted sulphur, is intro- duced to the hive by placing it in a hole in the ground, where a few shreds of this article are undergoing a smothering combustion ; or the fuU hive may be placed on an empty one inverted, and the sulphureous smoke introduced by a fumigating bellows. The bees will fall from the upper to the lower hive in a few minutes, when they may be removed and buried to prevent resuscitation. The combs, being thus cleared of bees, may be cut out. Although this practice has been mentioned as cruel, it is in fact not more so than any other way of killing animals for food, and it would be impossible to preserve all the swarms, as the bees would multiply too fast. However, where the preservation of the lives of the bees is an object, another method is employed, by which only a part of the honey is taken, about September. It is effected as follows : — Having ascertained the weight of the hive, and determined on the quantity of honey-comb that is to be extracted, begin the operation as soon as evening sets in, by inverting the full hive, and placing an emptj' one of exactly the same diameter over it. A table cloth must be tied round the whole to prevent the bees from molesting the operator. The hives being thus arranged, beat the sides gently with a stick, particularly in those parts to which the combs are attached, which are parallel with the entrance of the hive. The bees will then ascend in a few minutes into the upper hive, which will be known by a loud humming noise. Or this transfer of bees may be effected by a slight fumigation with burnt paper. When the whole community has ascended, the hive with the bees may be placed upon the pedestal from which the full hive was removed, and that from which the bees have been driven may be taken into the house to have the comb extracted. Particular care nurst be taken to cut out only one comb at a time ; not to take too nmch. Having thus obtained a suf- ficient quantity, the hive may be placed over that containing the bees, which must be reversed, and both left in that position until the next morning, when the bees will be found to have taken possession of their former hive, and if the season proves fair they will be able to make anotlier quantity of comb and honey equal to what they lost. If the honey is talicn early in tiic season, immediately after the first swarm, the whole of