THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 1156 Book XXV. J "b'v Fig. 890. poorness of the pastures in many places, the cows are stall-fed the greater part of the year. It does not follow from this, however, that cows are not benefited by being fre- quently in the open air. In many parts of England, from the usual mUdness of the wmters, the cows, instead of being tied up, are allowed to run at large in a yard which has a cow-house attached to it for them to shelter in ; and when this is the management, the construction of the cow-house is usually little attended to. Indeed, in many parts of this island, the cow-house is kept in a dirty condition ; and we would do well to take a lesson from our neighbours in Holland, and in some parts of France, where the cow- houses, even of the common farmers, are kept in a very superior degree of cleanliness, and are well lighted and ventilated. In some of our large establishments for supplying milk, and in those of many wealthy individuals, great improvements have been made in this part of domestic economy, the leading principles of which we propose here to state. 6853. On common farms, cows are not usually kept in separate stalls in the cow-house, except in cases of sickness, or when they are near calving ; but although it requires a little more room, separate stalls are preferable ; the divisions need not be long nor high. The floor of the stalls, or of the standing room, ought to be perfectly level, since it has been found that a slope is apt to occasion abortion. One of the principal differences between the house for horned cattle and those for horses, consists in the gutter, a h, fig. 899., owing to the more fluid nature of the dung of the former, which makes it necessary to have a passage, c d, for serving them with food between the manger and the wall. This gutter for the dung should be about eight or nine feet from the manger, and generally one foot broad, and three or four inches deep; it is better to be flat than curved at the bottom, because in the latter case the cattle are apt to slip in crossing it. The dung is cleaned out every day by a scraper, and there should be a space of three feet between the gutter and the wall. In some establishments the bottom of this gutter has been laid with oak planks bored full of holes, or cast-iron grates, to allow the fluid dung to pass into a drain beneath; and if a broom be now and then passed over this bottom, together with some small supply of water at one end of the gutter, the cow-house may be perfectly sweet and clean ; or if the aperture into the di'ain do not extend the whole way, there might be gratings at cer- tain places, or round openings with covers. The dung may be passed into the manure- tank 6854. The manger is a trough of boards, stone, or iron; and it should be so placed that the upper edge may be from a foot to eighteen inches from the ground, or about the height of the cow's knees ; and it may be eighteen inches broad and a foot deep. In order that it may hold the various kinds of food conveniently, it may be divided into three parts; one for dry food, another for moist food, and the third for water. Some have also a kind of rack for hay or grass. 6855. Litter in the stalls is not universally used ; but it is better for the cows to have straw to lie down upon than the bare paving, or even boards. The cows are fastened by a halter or chain, passing through a ring in front of the manger, and loaded. Cow-hotises in England are generally kept almost quite dark ; but this is unfavourable to cleanliness, the want of which is detected by light. When windows are used, they should be provided with outside shutters lufier-boarded, to keep ofi" the intensity of light, and yet allow of ventilation, too much light being found to disturb the repose of cattle, and to encour- age flies. Some space should be appropriated for the store of dry food. In Holland and the Netherlands, and likewise in some of the first dairies in France and Germany, cows are combed and brushed like horses; and this is beginning to be practised in gentlemen's dairies in England. 6856. In general, cleanliness is not only agreeable to the sight, but it is very beneficial to the health of all animals; on this account it is best to have the inside of a cow-house white-washed if not plastered. Ventilation should be provided for, which is best done in the roof; or it may be managed by tubes in the walls in the same manner as was recom- mended in stables for horses, should there be an)' rooms over the cow-house. It is not only necessary that a cow-house should be comfortably warm and very airy, but more especially that it should be dry ; for although a certain degree of warmth is healthful, yet cows, if kept dry, arc not very susceptible of cold ; and fresh air should never be ex- cluded. 6857. The calf-house should be separate from the cow-house, placed so near as not to be inconvenient in carrying the milk, and yet not so placed that the cow cannot hear or see the calf, as that would disquiet her and prevent her feeding. The calf-house may be