WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. 959 Chap. II. Scotland and the north of England, to preserve them from the effects of moisture and the Inclemency of the weather, has heen supposed to be injurious to the -wool; but Mr. Bake- well has shown that when the proportion of tar is not too great, the wool is greatly im- proved by this process, as the unguent preserves the wool in a soft state during the heats of summer, besides defending the animals from insects and cutaneous diseases. 5635. The long-woolled sheep of England are of four breeds : the Dishley or new Lei- cestershire ; the Lincolnshire ; that of Teeswater, and of Dartmoor. The Lincolnshire and Leicester breeds produce the longest staple, being often a foot in length. The average weight of their fleeces is from eight to ten pounds. For the general purposes of the worsted manufacturer their wool is unequalled. 5636. Our short-woolled sheep are principally the Dorsetshire, Herefordshire, and Southdown. The sheep pastured on the Cheviot hills in Cumberland, though not of the finest-woolled English breed, yield fleeces of great softness. 5637. It is a remarkable fact, stated by several persons who have written lately on our manufactures, that although Britain was long famous for its wool, which was formerly con- sidered as the staple article of British exports, yet at present the native wool of this country is deemed by our manufacturers to be unfit for making superfine cloth, and is not in fact used here for this purpose, all our superfine cloths being made with foreign wool. Prior to 1824, some good English broad cloths were made of wool from Sussex, Norfolk, Suffolk, and Hampshire ; but it is said that since that time our wool has dete- riorated somewhat in its quality, and Saxon wool chiefly is employed. The great fault of English wool for cloths is the length of the staple as well as the coarseness. 5638. The following table exhibits the various breeds of sheep in this country, with the quality and quantity of wool produced by each. Dishley . Lincoln . Teeswater Dartmoor Exmoor . Dorset Hereford . Southdown Norfolk . Heath Hardwick Cheviot . Dun-faced Shetland . Romney Marsh Spanish or Merino No horns Horned Small horns No horns Ditto Large horns Ditto No horns Ditto Ditto Ditto Ditto C Males horned, ^ ) Females some- f 1 times without f C horns )I White races and legs Ditto Ditto Ditto Grey faces and legs Black faces and legs Ditto Speckled faces White faces and legs Dun faces and legs Colours various White faces and legs Ditto Quality of the Wool. Combing or long wool Ditto f Carding or fine short 7 i wool J Very fine short wool Ditto Fine short wool Coarse long wool Short wool Fine short wool Ditto Fine cottony wool Long wool Short wool, very fine Weight of Fleece. Lbs. 8 11 9 9 6 34 2 24 2 34 2 3 14 I* 34 5639. Spanish Wool.—The finest wooUed sheep in Europe, the Spanish Merino, may be traced to the Tarentine sheep, introduced by the Romans into Spain. This breed is said to have come originally from Asia, where, in the ancient seats of luxury, the utmost pains had been bestowed upon these animals. In the middle ages, so far back as 1243, Spain was celebrated for its fine woollen cloth, with which it supplied the Italian states. The males of the Merino sheep have horns, and the females are without them. They are covered by a great thickness of wool, and appear almost enveloped in it, scarcely giving way to the pressure of the hands. The number of these sheep in Spain is estimated to be about 5,000,000, and they belong to various wealthy proprietors; yet they are united together into one great flock, called the Mesta, which travels over the kingdom under the guidance of certain persons appointed to take care of it, feeding upon various commons or uncultivated lands, passing the summer in the mountainous districts, and the wmter in the plains. This breed was tried in England by George III., but has not succeeded to the extent expected, although it has, in many instances, improved the English breed of short wool sheep. Formerly all our finest wool came from Spain; but Spanish wool is now almost entirely superseded by the Saxon and Australian. The Spanish flocks have suffered much in consequence of the war. 5640. Saxon wool, now so much employed in this country, owes its great improvement to the late King of Saxony when elector: on account of the superiority of the Spanish Merino sheep, he introduced them into his dominions, where they seemed to succeed even better than in Spain. Previously to 1800, our average annual imports of wool did not much exceed 3,000,000 lbs., mostly brought from Spain ; but such has been the increase of the Merino breed by the Saxon wool-growers, that the annual importation of •wool from Saxony amounts to above 25,000,000 lbs.