1058 STILL-ROOM AND DOMESTIC LABORATORY. Book XX. CHAP. V. MODE OF PREPARING SPIRITUOUS AROMATIC DISTILLED -WATERS, AOT) SPIRITS OF TIIE PERFUMERS. 6315. There is some ambiguity and confusion in the names usually given to these pre- parations, but they will be easily understood from the following explanation. We stated that the vapour of water, and the essential oils, rise together in distillation and form the simple distilled waters, but that water would only take up a certain portion of the essential oils, the remainder separating from it on cooling ; water is therefore only slightly im- pregnated with the essential oils of vegetables. Spirit of wine has this advantage over water, that it keeps all the essential oil in a state of solution, and can therefore be much more highly impregnated with the odours and other properties of the oils. Nevertheless, as spirit of wine is extremely volatile, it is sometimes more so than the essential oils, and therefore it will rise first, and consequently without the oils ; whereas water requiring more heat to be converted into vapour, will not rise until the essential oil does the same. Thus, if cinnamon, for instance, be committed to distillation with a mixture of spirit of wine and water, or with a pure proof spirit, which is no other than a mixture of equal parts of the two, the spirit will rise first, clear and transparent, and almost without any taste of the cinnamon ; but as soon as the watery part begins to rise, the oil comes over freely with it, so as to render the liquid highly odorous and sapid. The proof spirits commonly sold have a certain disagi-eeable flavour, owing to the essential oil of the barley from which it is made, which, though in general concealed in a great measure by certain additions, plainly discovers itself on distillation; but this nauseous smell is not perceived until after the purer spirituous part has come over, which is the very time when some of the essential oils also begin to distil. On this account, it is of great importance to have very pure spirit for the purpose of procuring spirituous waters. 6316. AVhat are called spirituous waters are, where only proof spirit, that is, half pure spirit and half water, has been employed. An example of a spirituous -water may be given in the case of orange-peel water, the receipt for the simple distilled water of which has been already given. 6317. Spiriluous orange-peel water. — Take of the outer rind of Seville orange-peel, dried, half a pound; proof spirit, one gallon ; water, as much as is sufficient to prevent empyreuina. Distil off one gallon. This is considerably stronger than the simple orange-peel water. It is used as a cordial and stomachic. 6318. Spirituous jessnmine water Take of Spanish jessamine flowers, twelve ounces; essence of Flo- rentine citron or bergamot, eight drops ; fine proof spirit, one g.dlon ; water, two quarts. Digest for two days in a close vessel; after which draw bIT one gallon, and add sugar. 6319. Spiriluous peppermint water Take of peppermint leaves, dry, a pound and a half; proof spirit, one gallon ; water, as much as is sufficient to prevent empyreuma. Distil off one gallon. This smells and tastes very strongly of peppermint, and is used medicinally. 6320. What perfumers term spirits of certain plants, as spirits of lavender, consist of the essential oil of the plants dissolved in proof spirit, by putting the plants with alcohol into a still, and drawing oS the scented spirit; or they are obtained by digesting the odor- iferous substances with spirit in a sand heat. 6321. Formerly, the term spirit was applied by chemists to all volatile substances col- lected by distillation, and hence some of the essential or volatile oils were termed spirits. Some of these names are not yet entirely banished; thus, the essential oil of turpentine is still improperly called spirits of turpentine. The tel-m spirit is at present among per- fumers usually confined to alcoholic solutions. But while some perfumers call these spirits, others name them mences, a term which ought to be confined to the pure essential oils. 6322. Spirituous perfumes are also prepared by putting the essences procured by means of the fat oils into a distilling vessel with alcohol. The aroma which was joined to the oil leaves it for the spirit, and the fixed oil remains; thus, a highly perfumed spirit is procured instead of an oil. 6323. To avoid the trouble of distillivg with the plants themselves in preparing per- fumers' spirits, it is very usual now to mix a small quantity of the essential oils of the several plants with proof spirit. Thus, spirit of roses may be made by adding three drachms of attar of roses to two pints of rectified spirits. Spirit of jessamine may be pro- cured by adding half a drachm of the essential oil of jessamine to eight ounces of rectified spirit. But the best method of combining the perfumes with spirits is the following : — Into each of three digesters, immersed in water-baths, put twenty-five pounds of any one of the essential aromatic oils, and pour into the first digester twenty-five quarts of spirit of wine ; agitate every quarter of an hour during three days, and at the end of this period draw off'the perfumed spirit, and pour it into the second digester; then transfer it after three days into the third digester, treating the mixture in the same way; and the spirit thus obtained will be perfect. Tlie digesters must be covered carefully during the pro-