COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST AND INVALID. Book XVI. may be requisite, and especially to patients among the laborious poor. The physician is often obliged to reduce his opulent patients, whose usual diet is full and stimulating ; but he finds the opposite course must be pursued to restore those to health whose lives have been laborious and diet spare. Their systems, when brought down by sickness, generally stand in need of every prop that can be safely administered. In the use of caudle it may be safely and properly giyen to the poor lying-in woman, while to the affluent it may be equally prejudicial. But while there are cases in which it may be useful, it is requisite that the mode of preparing it should not be overlooked in a work intended for general reference. 5535. Many receipts fur simple beverages have been given in Book VIII. Chap. IX. In a family, sickness is sometimes long absent, and when it does come, the variety of beverages with which it may be permitted to alleviate the thirst of an invalid is either for- gotten or unknown; and as the memory of the nurse may not be able at the moment to suggest the requisite variety, an enumeration here may be useful. The most usual, toast and water, and barley-water, have been described in page 692. Sect. II. SIMPLE BEVEKAGES FOR THE 8ICK. 5536. Lemon water. — Cut into an earthen teapot, or a covered jug, two or three slices of lemon, with one lump of sugar and a spoonful of capillaire. On these pour a pint of boiling water, and cover it closely for two or three hours, when it will form an agreeable beverage for the thirst of a feverish patient. 5537. Apple water. —Slices of apple and a little lemon-peel and sugar put into hot water, make a pleasant drink. 5538. Raspberry vinegar, a dessert spoonful of which, in a tumbler of cold water, is liked by some invalids. 5539. Tamarinds and hot water, when cool, may in some cases be given; but no acid drinks should be given to patients without the knowledge of their medical attendants. 5540. Milk whey. — Steep in a cup of hot water, for four or five hours, a small piece of rennet, about an inch and a half square. Pour the water, not the skim itself, into two quarts of new milk. When the curd is come, pour it into a sieve or fine earthen cullender, and press the whey gently out of it into a jug. This may be given either cool, or made the warmth of new milk, whichever a patient prefers. 5541. White wine whey. — Dilute half a pint of new milk with an equal quantity of hot water; boil both together, and while boiling pour in at the moment two wine glasses of white wine. A curd will form, which, after boiling the mixture for two or three minutes longer, will settle at the bottom of the saucepan. The whey must be strained cai-efully from the curd; it should be perfectly clear. Sugar may be added to please the taste. Warm white wine whey promotes perspiration, and hence is useful in the commencement of some complaints ; but taken cold it has a different effect, and often in cases of low fever it is an excellent beverage ; also, in the early stages of convalescence, it is as safe and sufficient a stimulant as can be given. 5542. Lemon and vinegar wheys. — Instead of wine, pour into the boiling milk and water a table-spoonful of lemon juice or of vinegar. The whey obtained in this manner, being less stimulating than that of white wine, is sometimes given to an invalid in pre- ference. 5543. Nitre whey. — Pour into the boiling milk and water a dessert spoonful of the sweet spirit of nitre. Sweeten it, and let the patient take it as warm as it can be drank. Its use is that of promoting perspiration in a greater degree than is effected by white wine whey, without being equally heating. Sect. IIL « gruels and caudles. 5544. Gruel, the basis of caudle, as well as a valuable species of nourishment for in- valids, may be made either with oatmeal, with common groats, or with the prepared Emhden groats. 5545. Oatmeal gruel is made by putting about three ounces of meal into a basin, and mixing enough of cold water with it until it becomes of a smooth consistency, thicker than that of cream, and then, by putting it into a saucepan and adding to it a quart of water, it is then boiled for half an hour, during which time it must be stirred frequently, and afterwards strained off from the remains of the- oatmeal. Another way of mixing the oatmeal with the water, is to pour half a pint of cold water on the oatmeal, and straining it off into the saucepan, to add another half pint, pouring that off also into the