MARKETING 859 Book XII. BOOK XII. PRACTICAL HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. CHAP. I. SIAEKETING. 4826. The leading facts relative to each of the animals and vegetables used as food have been stated in Book VIII.; and to that the reader is referred. The directions contained iu the present Chapter are intended more particularly for cooks and persons employed to market; and they ought not to be considered as unimportant, since novices in marketing and cooking must seek instruction in aid of inexperience. Sect. I. RULES FOR MARKETING, 4827. In marketing, the first rule is to purchase chiefly from known and respectable tradespeople, who are likely to go themselves to the best markets, and who have to sup- port the character of their shops. 4828. The second rule to be observed is that of not purchasing inferior articles under the idea of being economical. 4829. A bargain is seldom a prize : and this is especially the case in regard to butcher's meat. 4830. T7ie best meat and the prime parts are unquestionably the cheapest in the end, although the first cost may be the greatest. In coarse and inferior joints there is always too great a proportion of gristle, bone, and hard meat to render them truly economic; these may serve as the basis of soups, gravies, or stews ; but for roasting or boiling they are wasteful. 4831. TTie criteria of bad meat, by which must be understood meat that has been too long killed, or meat from animals killed in a state of disease, ought to be well known by those who market, no less than the value and economy of the different parts and joints. SuBSECT. 1 Joints and Parts of Butcher's Meat enumerated. 4832. TTie bullock is divided in the shambles as marked in fig. 762. The joints are not here given in the order in which they are estimated as prime or as inferior parts : — 1. Sirloin ; 2. Rump ; 3. Edgebone ; 4. Buttock; 5. Mouse buttock ; 6. Veiny parts ; 7. Thick flank ; 8. Thin flank ; 9. Leg ; 10. Fore ribs ; 11. Middle ribs ; 12. Chuck ribs; 13. Leg of mutton piece; 14. Brisket; 15. Clod; 16. Sticking piece; 17. Shin; 18. Cheek. Besides these parts there are—the tongue; palate; sweetbreads; kidneys; skirts and tripe. A baron of beef, now an obsolete joint, consisted of the two sirloins undivided. 4833. The calf (see fig. 763.) is divided into—1. Loin (kidney end); 2. Loin (chump end); 3. Fillet; 4. Hind knuckle ; .'5. Fore knuckle; G. Neck (best end) ; 7. Scrag; 8. Blade bone; 9. Breast (best end); 10. Brisket; 11. Head. To these joints must be