632 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 3550. To make raisin mme. — Procure fresh Smyrna or Malaga raisins; pick out tlie stalks anil all defective fruit; chop twenty-eight pounds of these into small bits, and pour upon them three gallons of tolerably hot water, and let them stand to soak for twelve hours. Put the whole into a hair cloth or clean canvas bag ami with a sufliciently powerful press press out the juice. Put two gallons more of hot water on the marc of raisms ; let this remain also twelve hours, and press out as before. Mix the two liquids together, but the Bkins are not to be used. Add to the juice thus obtained three pounds of white sugar, and put the whole into a proper vessel to ferment. Some add au ounce or two of crude tartar, but no yeast, as the raisins contain of themselves sullicient fermenting principle. This liquor will ferment, and the vessel should be covered with a blanket. When the first fermentation is over, the wine is to be transferred or r,icked into a clean cask, and sulTered to undergo the slow fermentation ; it is then to be kept bunged up for three months, and then racked into another cask. In about twelve months it will be fit to bottle. Some add brandy after the first ferment- ation ; but this is not necessary. A still richer wine may be made by increasing the quantity of fruit, and leaving out the sugar. 3551. Mr. Aikin, formcrh/ sccrelary to the Society for the Encouragement qf Arts, Ijc, made a light, dry raisin wine, of excellent quality ; and the following is an account of the process, abridged from his paper in the Transactions of the Society. The raisins wliich he employed were the muscatel, which is imported in boxes contafiiing about twenty pounds, and when new are in common use as a table fruit. In tliis state the price prohibits its employment for this purpose; but in those which remain unsold for about a year, the rich pulp of the recent raisin becomes mixed with sugary concretions, which renders them less acceiitable at the dessert; and the price of such fruit, being about ten-pence a pound, brings it within the reach of the domestic wine-maker. The matter contained in grapes, which we have described by the name of ferment, exists in raisins in sufficient abun- dance to change into wine a greater quantity of sugar than the fruit contains, and it was found advantageous to add to the raisins from one-tenth to oue-third of their weight of sugar. In order, however, to avoid tainting the wine with the peculiar flavour of brown or moist sugar, which happens generally in the usual mode of making raisin wine, he used good loaf sugar. Having separated the raisins from the stalks, the former were choiijied very fine. The proportion of the ingredients found to be the best was three pounds of raisins, one pound of sugar, and one ale-gallon of water. The must was prepared sometimes by mashing, and sometimes by maceration. The mashing was perlbrraed as follows : — The chopped raisins being put into an open tub or earthenware pan, hot water was poured on them, in the proportion of about a quart to four pounds of fruit. It is desir- able, in this first mash, to extract the greater part of the saccharine mucilage as little altered as possible; the water was therefore heated only to about 120°. The water and fruit, after being mixed, was suffered to stand about a quarter of au hour, and then the whole was stirred carefully by the hand, taking care to break down all the lumps. The whole was next poured upon a sieve placed over a tub, where it drained for a short time ; the husks were pressed by hand, and were returned to the mash-tub. The second mash is made exactly as the first; and the husks, after pressing, are returned to the mash-tub. The raisins were now found to h.Tve lost all their clamminess, though they were still sweet; the greater part of the saccharine mucilage had been therefore extracted, and the principal object in the subsequent mashes is to dissolve the tartar which they contain. For this purpose, the water of t*"e third mash was heated to 150° or 100°, and was managed as the former. The liquor thus obtained was in a considerable degree acidulous, from the tartar having the flavour of the raisins, and but little sweetness. Three-fourths of the mash being now made, the next operation was regulated by the degree of astringency which it was wished the wine should have. If it were desired the wine should be somewhat astringent, some boiling water was poured upon the stalks of the raisins, which were kept for that purpose in a separate tub, and after they had macer- ated for a quarter of an hour, the liquor so produced was poured into the third mash, and well mixed with it; if astringency was not wished for, the stalks were rejected. In a quarter of an hour the liquor was put in the sieve, and the husks were well squeezed by hand. While the last mash is preparing, the liquor of the first three mashes was transferred to the fermenting tun, and the sugar was dissolved in it; then .as much of the last mash was added as was requisite to bring the mUst to the due proportions, viz. one ale-gallon of must to three pounds of fruit, and one pound of sugar. The time occupied by the above processes was four or five hours. The temperature of the must, when put into the fermenting tun, was usually about 70°; and the fer- mentation began in from twelve to thirty-six hours, according to the weather, and the manner in which it was treated. The scum which rose was sometimes taken oif every day, and sometimes it was allowed to remain till the liquor was about to be removed from the fermenting tun. If the fermentation was languid, the cover of the tun was kept on, and the scum was stirred daily into the liquor; if too rapid, the cover was taken ofl", and the scum was removed as it rose. In general, tlie best time for fermenting was when the temperature of the air is from 5.5° to G0° ; of course cold frosty weather is unfit. When the fermentation h.id become lan- guid, and was judged to have been sufficient, the liquor was vinous, but sweet; it was then carefully skimmed, and transferred to glass carboys containing about six or seven gallons, or to stone-ware barrels of the same size. As tlie latter are always more or less porous, they should be warmed thoroughly before a fire, and rubbed over with a mixture of bees'-wax and turpentine (about one part of turpentine to three of bees'-wax), and when this thin coating is grown cold, it should be well rubbed in with a hard brush. Instead of the usual vent-peg, which, however, answers the purpose, though requiring more attention, a more elegant method was employed, by the use of a well-known chemical apparatus called tubes of safety, which are little bent glass tubes containing a drop or two of quicksilver; these are inserted in the bungs, which arc cemented down and covered with a mixture of wax and resin. The fermentation that goes on in the cask will be dis- tinctly shown by the motion of the quicksilver in the tubes, as the cjirbouic acid g-as that escapes will pass through the quicksilver ; i\nd this will continue for some weeks, after which it ceases. Upon the whole, the loss by fermentation in the tun is usually about six per cent. The wine should remjiin in the carboy or cask an entire summer, in order that the whole of the sugar may be decomposed by the fermentation. Il the wine is made in April, it is bottled in the following March ; if made in October, it is bottled about the end of September, or a week or two later, according to circumstances. The wine is never fined, Mr. Ailtin being of opinion tliat the light dry wine, which it was his aim to pro- duce, would be materially injured by being deprived of its tannin through the actiim of isinglass or any similar substance. At the time of bottling, the wine did not appear to have any very sensible fhivour, mean- ing by flavour that compound sensation of smell and taste which characterises the finer kind of wines; but arter remaining for a year in bottle, a flavour resembling elder flowers was stronglv developed, mingled generally, in a slight degree, with that of prussic acid. When the jirincipal part of the wino in the carboy had been run ofTto be bottled, the remaining p.irt was passed through a flannel filter; but notwithstanding care had been taken that the wine when bottled should be clear, though not bright, there was always more or less of floceulent m.ittor depositKl, wliicli required the bottles to be set upright in the binn, and to bo decanted with care. Tlie wine, when first decanted, was oflen of a very pale yellow colour, especially if highly-flavoured ; but in an liour or two it deepened more or less, and at" last acquired a tint like that of Bucellas, the prussic acid flavour at the same tftno disajipeariug.