Chap. VI. KITCHEN FURNITURE. 857 this happens, and the piston forces down through the water so raised, raising np the piston ■will cause it to act as in the lifting pump ; and since the water thus lifted cannot get out through the top of the worliing barrel, g h, this being closed, it will be forced out through the branch pipe, c d, and its valve,/, and afterwards through the ascending pipe, j. This pump is therefore a combination of the sucking and lifting pumps ; and it is easy to con- ceive that a sucking pump may be converted into this machine with little dilBculty. This construction has several advantages over the last. The greatest force on the piston rod is exerted in pulling it upwards instead of forcing it downwards, which is less apt to bend them. 4824. To obtain a continued stream of water, instead of its coming in starts, an air vessel (a b,fig. 760.) may be put on the branch pipe of fig. 758. or 759. This vessel may be of any fonn, but is closed at the top, and has a pipe, d e, descending into it. The water forced up into the branch pipe cannot escape at top, but is forced out through the small pipe, d e, the lower end of which is open ; and the air in the space /f being thus con- densed there, will act constantly by its spring upon the surface of the water in a b, and force it out through the pipe d e in a constant stream, as in the fire-engine. 4825. Siebe's rotatory pump is found very convenient either for raising water from a tank or well, or for forcing it up to any height. This pump (fig. 761.) operates by the rota- tion of a roller on its axis, a, having pad- dles or pistons, bbbb,\>y which, when the roller is tui'ned, a vacuum is produced within the barrel, c c c. In consequence of this vacuum the water flows up the rising break, d, into the barrel; and as the paddles go round they force it into an opening, which conducts it wherever it may be wanted, and by that means produces a con- tinual stream. By having an ascending tube, e, the water may be forced to any height; and, by having a horizontal tube with a cock, /, it may be let out at pleasure, as in a common pump. By having se- veral pipes branching from e, as many cisterns or reservoirs may be supplied, g is the external appearance of the pump. Fig. 761 LIST OF THE FtJRNITUKE OF THE KITCHEN, AND OTHER OFFICES CONNECTED VriTH IT. Tables Chairs and stools Dressers Plate racks Kange, fender and fire-iroD> Jacks for roasting Spits, stays, and skewers Bird spits Meat screen Saucepans and boilers Stew-pans Saute pans Braising.pans Frying-pans Soup pots .lugging pots Omelet pans Patty pans Digesters Gridirons Apple roasters Argyles for gravies Steamers for ditto Basting ladles Soup ditto Marrow scoops Spoons of various kinds Beef forks Cheese toasters Cheese trays Cheese knives Bread baskets Knife ditto Knife boxes Plate baskets lined with tin Bread pans Cleavers Bone saws Meat choppers Hammers and other tools Hatchets Meat knives Paste cutters Oyster knives Fish ditto Cucumber slicers Carrot and turnip scoops Lobster crackers Steak beaters Steak tongs Cooks' knives Cooks' scissors Bread graters Beef ditto Nutmeg ditto Salt strainers Larding-pins Bolling-pins Nut-crackers Lemon squeezers Trenchers Butter prints Jelly and blanc mange moulds Baking pans for bread Dutch and other ovens Iron and brass footmen Iron st.ands Colanders Egg coolers Egg ladles Funnels Salt boxes Flour and oatmeal tubs Flour boxes Flour dredgers Pepper boxes Spice ditto Toast racks Butter forcers Venison dishes Hash dishes Dishes of various kinds Water plates Wire meat covers Coffee pots Coffee biggins Coffee fllterers Coffee roasters Coffee mills Sugar canisters Sugar nippers Sugar dredgers Plate warmers Sinks Water filterers Filtering stone brushes Salad forks and spoons Candlesticks, with snuffers and ex- tinguishers Lamps, various Ciindle boxes Lanterns Tinder boxes Oil bottles and cans Oil filters Oil cisterns Wire servants' lanterns Rushlight shades Housemaids' gloves and leathers Emery, sand and glass paper Emery box Itottenstone Hearthstone Bath bricks