II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. 81 oor be closed, and only as much air is admitted by the valved opening in the ash-pit as 1111 just feed the combustion, only a small corresponding quantity of air can pass away the chimney, and the whole box will soon be full of the hot air or smoke from the fire vculating in it, and rendering it every where of as uniform temperature as if it were full I hot water. This circulation takes places, because the air in the front chamber around v3 fire-box, and which receives as a mixture the red-hot air issuing from the fire, is ;tter, and therefore specifically lighter, than the air in the posterior chamber, which iceives no direct heat, but is always losing heat from its sides and back; and thus, as uag as the fire is bm-ning, there must be circulation. The whole mass of air is, in fact, rsn to revolve, as marked by the arrows, with great rapidity ; so that a person looking wards the bottom of the stove through the stove-door, i, might suppose, if smoking fuel idd been used to make the motion visible, that he was looking in at the top of a great II imney. The quantity of new air rising from within the fuel, and the like quantity escap- .■g through the flue, c, are very small, compared within the revolving mass." To regulate the temperature of this stove, and make it equable, a contrivance is attached, illled the " thermometer tube," by which the opening for admission of air to the ash-pit is jade to expand when the fire burns too slowly, and thereby increase the draught arid com- iistion; and to close a little, and hence to check the combustion, when the fire is too brisk. ' would appear, however, that this apparatus was more ingenious than useful, as it is now rnnerally laid aside, and the quantity of air admitted to the fire is regulated by some of va- 03US simple methods in common use. One of the advantages this stove seems to possess is, aat the fire keeps in a long time, requiring very little attention, particularly when anthra- ite or coke is employed as fuel. It is rather diflicult to light, and therefore some prefer ceeping the fire always in, which is rather a convenience, as thus the apartments never ■iiol, and the expense of fuel is very small. Where a gentle steady heat is very desirable, lappears to be useful; but it must be observed, that the means of ventilation must be pro- iiided for in the same way as for other stoves. ■ 359. A few more iron stoves lately advertised as the Chunk stove, Vesta stove, &c. do 1 bt appear to possess any good qualities peculiar and deserving of mention. : 360. Mr. Stephen Green's new terra cotta stove avoids several inconveniences of iron (oves. To equalise the heat as much as possible, two or three concentric cylinders of mrthenware are introduced between the fire-pot and the external case, which prevents )ue danger of the heat cracking the external casing, which is also of some kind of i&rthenware. Sect. III. WARMING BY FLtTES. 361. The method of warming houses by means of flues under the floors or in the walls, hnough very efiectual in some cases, as in hot-houses, is scarcely applicable to our private swellings as they are constructed at present. It is true that this was the mode adopted ;7 the Romans in their villas when they had possession of this island; but it is to be Observed, that their floors were altogether of bricks and tiles, often ornamented with Mosaics. In the present construction of our houses with floors of wood, it would be next 0) impossible to warm them in this manner, which would demand so great change in our oomestic economy and modes of construction, thatare cannot at present speculate upon it; sind numerous expensive experiments must be made before we could discover all its advan- iges and disadvantages, notwithstanding the idea of warming a whole house with one fire, nstead of each separate apartment, may appear at first to promise a vast improvement. 1 "here is however one part of the house that might sometimes, perhaps, be advantageously fvarmed by means of flues under the floor ;— that part is the hall or vestibule, which may haave a pavement of marble, stone, or tiles. Whether this would be sufiicient to warm ^IJso the staircase, without making the floor of the hall hotter than would be agreeable, ti-emains, we believe, to be decided by experiment. There are certain other cases where this mode of warming appears to have advantages ; r.iiamely in ofiices, or other places with stone floors, which are very cold for the feet. When this method is employed, the fire-place should be so constructed that the smoke fr'rom the fuel must descend through the fire, and be thus almost wholly consumed, which ''nWX prevent the great accumulation of soot in the flues. Sect. IV. ■WARMING BY STEAM. 362. Steam, so useful on many other occasions, is capable of affording one of the most ^agreeable, safe, and convenient methods of warming our apartments. In our account of the -general properties of heat, we mentioned the way in which steam is generated, and that G