1G8 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. npon their guard against serious accidents which may happen in the process. The inixture will explode by friction or percussion in a mortar ; and the explosion of a few ounces might prove fatal. The substances, therefore, must be rubbed together very gently. But we would not recommend any one to attempt making these matches, except they are well instructed in the necessary precautions. The front of a shop has been blown out by an explosion of this kind, and the operator was seriously hurt. 744. Promelliuans for procuring an instantaneous light appear as little rolls of paper tliat contain some red substance inclosed at one end. When you wish for a light 3 0U lay the red end of the paper on a table, and give it a knock with a hammer, key, or other hard body, on which the paper inflames. -The principle upon which this effect is pro- duced is the following: it is a chemical fact that a mixture of the substance called chlorate of potash with sugar, inflames when it comes into contact with sulphuric acid. Now the red substance in the paper is this mixture, and in that substance there is a little glass hollow bead, that contains sulphuric acid. When the end of the paper roll is struck, the bead is broken, and the acid liberated, which inflames the 'chlorate. The making of promethians is rather a difficult operation, and we would not recommend any one not well versed in chemical experiments to attempt it, as the substances are extremely apt to explode by handling. 74.5. LucifersoT Congreves are matches prepared by dipping them into phosphoric pre- paration, which is inflamed by being rubbed sharply on a piece of glass paper, or any other rough substance. They are, perhaps, on the whole, the most convenient and the safest of any contrivance of this kind, as they are not liable to spoil by keeping, nor to inflame spontaneously. They are at present sold at a very low price. For safety tliey should be kept in a metal case, as friction by some accident may set them on fire. CHAP. V. rLLUMINATION BY MEANS OF GAS. 746. History of gas light.—Illumination by means of inflammable gas affords one of the most striking instances of the adaptation of scientific discovery to the comforts and elegancies of life ; and it is the more remakable, since this vast improvement is altogether within the memory of many persons now living. 747. It had been shown by Dr. Clayton, in 1688, that the air which comes from bitu- minous coal, when subjected to a red heat in a retort, is inflammable, and burns with a bright flame. Dr. Watson, bishop of Llandaff, also, in his " Chemical Essays," mentions his having ignited gas produced by the distillation of coal. 748. Mr. Murdoch, engineer, to Messrs. Watt and Boulton, was the first person who put in practice the idea of producing light on an extmsive scale by means of this gas. He com- menced his experiments on this subject in 1792, when he applied it to the lighting of his own house at Redruth, in Cornwall; and afterwards to that of the extensive manufactory of Watt and Boulton, at Soho, near Birmingham, on the occasion of the celebration of the peace of Amiens in 1798. But notwithstanding these successfiU experiments, and also that several manufactories in Birmingham, Manchester, and other towns were lighted with gas, under the superintendence of Mr. Murdoch, an account of which was published in the transactions of the Royal Society in 1808, so little was the public in general ac- quainted with the merits of this invention, that a few years afterwards Mr. Windsor exhibited the gas light in London as au invention of his own ; at least it was so under- stood generally : and it was at that time looked upon by most persons merely as a speculation calculated to delude, and not likely to be carried to the extent that was re- presented. The continual and successful exhibition of this kind of light, however, at the Lyceum theatre, and in Pall Mall, induced many to inquire into and discuss its merits, and at last a company was formed for the purpose of lighting the streets of London. The success of the project is too well known for us to carry its history further. We shall only observe that at present the number of gas lamps for lighting the streets is upwards of 168,000; and that above 200,000 chaldrons of coals are annually employed in generating the gas. 749. Nature of coal gas We have already explained that the flame from coals burning in a common fire proceeds from the combustion of the carhurctted hydrogen pas that is volatilised and set free ; and every one nmst have observed that, occasional!}', jets of flame from some parts of the coal are extremely bright, proceeding from very pure gas. It was natural to imagine, that if this gas could bo collected by any means in proper reservoirs, and afterwards forced out through small ai)ertures, it might serve, when set on fire, for the ])iirpose of ilhunination instead of lamjjs or candles. To efi'ect this, a quantity of coal is introduced into a closed vessel, generally of iron, placed in a proper furnace, by which it is heated so as to throw out the volatile parts, which arc conducted by means of