ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. Book XXII. 1086 acquired a bad colour, from injudicious washing, lying by, or any other cause • it thus undergoes a kind of bleaching. The superiority of washing in India is to be ascribed to the great power of the sun's rays acting upon the calico often wetted. Great care should be taken with respect to the mode of hanging up the linen to dry, avoiding palings, or any materials that may communicate a stain, particularly from iron, as this will cause iron-moulds. In the country, or where there is convenience, a drying ground is frequently attached to the laundry, or in some situation proper for the purpose, to which the linen is carried in clean baskets. It is then usually hung upon lines fastened to wooden uprights, which should be fixed to the ground by permanent sockets, as they can thus be more firm and secure than when driven into the ground. One end of the lines is made to pass over a pully at the top of an upright, by which the clothes may be raised or lowered together. The lines should be of worsted or soft flax. The various articles are best secured to the lines by wooden pegs made of a branch, and having a cleft which is bound at one end by a hoop of iron, tinned, to prevent rusting. For want of this tin the end may be bound very tight by packthread, or it may be let into a socket of wood. It is advisable to have a sufficient stock of these wooden pins, as common pins are apt to tear the articles hung up. When linen is laid upon grass to be bleached, it is often necessary to keep it down by clean stones, and to have it well watched for fear of its being blown away or stolen. 6492. But the same cause which renders drying in the sun beneficial to white linen, renders this injurious to all dyed and printed articles, as being destructive to colour. These should therefore be dried in the shade, and never hung in the sun : it is the sun's rays, and not merely the air, which particularly occasion colours to fade. There may therefore be a shed for the purpose of drying coloured articles, or some place may be selected that is sheltered from the sun's rays. It is not uncommon for printed cottons to suffer consider- able injury for want of this precaution, either from negligence or ignorance of the prin- ciples we have mentioned. Some articles require particular modes of hanging them up to dry. Very thick articles, as quilts, waistcoats, &c., are best hung over two lines placed a few feet apart, in order that both sides may be sufficiently exposed to the air. The summer months are best for washing thick and heavy articles of furniture, as blankets, counterpanes, bed curtains, &c., on account of the greater facility with which they may be dried out of doors in that time of the year, and thus also acquiring a better colour. I<aces, and lace veils, require to be stretched smooth, and tacked to a piece of white calico before they are hung up. Muslin and other dresses must be stretched as smooth as pos- sible, that they may not get wrinkled in drying. But it is unnecessary to detail all the little precautions to be observed in hanging out various articles of dress, since these are sufiiciently understood by those who are practised in it, and scarcely admit of being explained by any short directions. But notwithstanding the superiority of drying clothes in the open air, this is not always practicable, and they are then dried within doors. We shall describe the best methods of effecting this when we treat of the " Construction of the Laundry." Sect. IIL starching. 6493. As it is necessary to have certain parts of linen and various articles of dress less pliable than usual, starch is employed to give the requisite stiffness. The chemical nature of starch, and the process of manufacturing it, have been already explained. 6494. To make the starch for use it must be mixed with a sufficient quantity of cold water, until it is about the consistence of common paste, carefully breaking all the lumps, and rubbing it with a wooden spoon till it is quite smooth : then add boiling water in the proportion of a pint of water to an ounce of starch ; put the blue flannel bag into it, and let enough colour be dissolved to give the required tint. The making of starch properly requires some care. If made in a tin saucepan, it is a chance if it does not bum, like all thick liquids. The best vessels for making it in are a bell-metal skillet, or a copper vessel, tinned, or an earthenware pipkin. It is said that an iron vessel would make it turn black; but this is impossible if the iron is tinned: a small cast-iron saucepan, tinned inside, will answer very well. The starch being properly mixed, put it on the fire and let it boil, taking care to stir it all the while, to prevent burning. When it is taken off the fire and poured out, cover it with a plate, to prevent a skin forming. If it be wanted stiffer than common, a little gum Arabic or isinglass dissolved may be added : and for some articles of lawn, gum Arabic alone is used, without starch. Some add a bit of white wax. 0495. As an economical kind of starch, for articles where no nicety is required, some use common paste made of wheat flour. 6496. The parts of linen and other articles of wearing apparel Otat require to be starched