2.55 i'HAP. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS. [11 small portfolios. For this purpose, the fronts of the drawers may e made to let down in the manner of a pianoforte, to get at the papers aaore easily. 1147. A small pedestal case, with shelves or drawers within,/i^. 551., wUl he useful, where there is no library table, for keeping .lapers in Rumford cases, or in folios. When persons have acquired ■ taste for arrangement (a very useful one), many similar methods laay be contrived, in which facility of reference should form a prin- cipal feature. A little money will be judiciously laid out in having rroper conveniences for arranging and preserving papers. 1148. Fire-proof closets and boxes. The principle upon which htiese should be constructed is, that they should be made of such oaaterials as are not only incombustible, but as little as possible Fig.3b\. lapable of being heated. Metals are not combustible by ordinary fires ; but, as they are uusceptible of being made extremely hot, they are not proper for this purpose. If the oaints are not perfectly close, so as perfectly to exclude the external air, papers and itther inflammable substances will be burnt and consumed in them in case of a fire; and, should the joints be quite tight, papers in them will at least be charred and ren- dered useless. By referring to our Section " On Heat," the nature of the subject will be cnderstood; and it will be seen, that brick, soft stone, layers of pumice, charcoal, and i ther porous substances are the best non-conductors of heat. Fire-proof boxes should, therefore, be constructed of these materials, which may be cased with sheet iron merely to eep them together. Air is, as we have shown, a good non-conductor; therefore two >ioxes of non-conducting materials, with an empty space of a few inches between them, rriU be far safer than any single box. The inner bo.x should rest upon pieces of pumice, and should not touch the external one any where: or the space between the two boxes hhould be filled with pumice. No one unacquainted with these philosophical principles should be entrusted with the construction of a fire-proof closet or box. Sect. X. Fig. 353. 1149. Folding screens, Jig. 352. to keep off draughts of cold air, seem to be of Chinese or I Japanese origin, if we may judge from the paintings with which they used to be decorated. They are now little used, since the finishing of our houses has been so much improved. >!5till there are cases where they are found to add much to comfort, particularly in de- fending those who are obliged to sit be- tween the door and the fire, where there is always more or less of a current of air. These are to turn the direction of this current, for they can have no effect in destroying it. They have sometimes peculiar hinges, by which ^^NifT B3 R^*^ ^ ^^^y folded both ways. "I— " ^ 1150. Fire screens are very neces- sary where open fires are used ; and nn England they always form part of the furniture. In dining rooms hhey are particularly wanted for those who sit with their backs to the idre; and various contrivances have been made to prevent the un- !)leasant effects of this situation. The simplest, and one that fre- l iuently answers the purpose, is a flat mat worked of willow that is hung on the back of *ach chair requiring such a defence,^f?. 353. 11.51. A cheval fire screen is one made of mahogany filled in with moreen and other nnaterials,/g'. 354., and made to slide up in the stand. Another variety, fig. 355., is made to be increased both in width and height by additional i;Iiding pieces. 1152. Fire screens for drawing-rooms are less wanted than formerly, since, from the great ■mprovements in chimney fire-places, it is not so necessary to sit very near the fire. When they are employed, they are made light and elegant, and are generally only large imough to screen the face. Fig. 356, 357, 358. are examples of forms in common use, »vhich may be of mahogany, the screen covered with silk, paintings, &c. Fig. 359, 360. inre very simple screens made by suspending a piece of silk on a brass or wooden rod. .t is requisite that the base of all fire screens should be strong and solid, as well as some- what heavy, that they may not easily overset. 1153. That a pane of glass slumld form a fire screen is a remarkable fact. It appears