ON FOOD. Book VII. 404 delicacy of its flesh, it is to be lamented that sufficient means have not been taken to domesticate it, which it is supposed by some sportsmen would be very practicable. Its plumage is extremely beautiful. Sect. XXIV. WHITE GROUSE. 2088. The white grouse, or ptarmigan, is found in the British isles, though not plenti- fully ; the London market is supplied from Scotland and Norway, those from the latter country being preferred. When young it is excellent, and little different from common grouse. At Hudson's Bay they are in such flocks, that sixty or seventy are often taken in a net at once ; and as they are as tame as chickens, they are driven into the nets without difficulty. A ptarmigan will weigh a pound and a half. Sect. XXV. WOODCOCK (^Scolopax rusticola, Linn.). 2089. This bird is somewhat less than the partridge, which it much resembles, and is a bird of passage. It breeds in high northern latitudes, as in the marshy and extensive pine forests of Norway, Sweden, Russia, and Siberia, feeding upon worms and insects, which it searches for with its long bill. When winter sets in, woodcocks emigrate and seek a milder climate, the time of their leaving Sweden agreeing with that of their arrival in Britain, where they frequent our woods, particularly in the west and north. In emi- grating, they travel slowly, flying low from wood to wood, choosing the night, and con- cealing themselves during the day. They are with us during the winter, and leave Eng- land about the latter end of February, a few only remaining in this country, where they breed. There are woods in England, particularly one in Sussex, near the borders of Hampshire, in which one or two couple of these birds, it is said, may always be found in summer. They have been observed as far south as Asia Minor, Barbary, and Egypt, and they are common in Japan ; these probably migrate from the north of Asia. They are taken in great numbers in nets, springes, and with birdlime, and are served up at the best tables as delicacies, being much esteemed by gourmands as a highly-flavoured viand, resembling the barn-yard fowl in point of delicacy; but they are good only when fat It is best to keep them before dressing till they are very tender, without suffering them to proceed too far in the progress of decay : they are remarkable for the tenderness of their skin. We are informed, in a cotemporary publication, of some curious deceptions prac- tised by the inferior poulterers of London upon genuine cockneys who are ambitious of having game at their tables. " The grey plover is sometimes trussed like a woodcock, its bill cut off, and the bill of a real woodcock inserted instead: the bills of these latter birds being purchased from the cooks of wealthy families." The detection of this fraud, which it is hoped is unusual, is, obviously, to give the bill a "good tug ; " and this sug- gests the necessity of those who wish to purchase wild fowl being themselves acquainted with the characters of the birds, and not trusting implicitly to the sellers. The woodcock is not considered game by law, since, being a migratory bird, having no settled habitation, and not being reared or preserved, it cannot be considered as the pro- perty of any individual. Sect. XXVL puffin, kittiwake, and awk. 2090. These birds live almost entirely in the sea, building their nests in the sea cliffy, and feeding altogether on fish. Though relished by some persons when young, yet their strong and peculiar flavour, derived from their food, prevents their being generally dressed, except in cases of necessity. Pickling and spiciog takes off much of the fishy taste. The sea-gull is never eaten, the flesh being coarse and strong. Sect. XXVIL SWALLOW. 2091. The swallow is never among the trifles seen at our tables ; but the cdiblf birds' nests, which occupy the first rank among the dainties prized by Chinese gourm.inds, are the production of a species of swallow (Hirundo csculenia). These nests are formed of a transparent gelatinous substance th.it dissolves in water; thev arc employed for sauces, or in soups, or chicken broth for valetudinarians, and are reckoned an excellent Tcstoriitive This rare material is sometimes seen even !\t the tables of the wealthy and luxurious in Britain. The nests are about three or four inches in circumference, .nud one in depth, and are met with in clefts of tho rocks on the shores of Cochin China, Java, Malacca, and various parts of the Indian Archipehigo. They are found in great quantities in the islands on the Tavoy coast and in the Mergui Islands in .Slam. Malay, Chmcse, and Siamese l)nats come every year for six weeks in .January to collect them. T.aking them is a work of consldcr.ible danger as it is necessary to climb precipices by the help of ropes and flying ladders made of rattans, .ind many .ire found in intricate caves. The Chinese, ,imong whom the extremes of luxury and misery- are frequent pay five or six dollars a pound for them ; when first brought in their raw slate, they are covered with