Book V. 272 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. mattresses. Of these Sir Thomas Lauder observes, " We can, from our own experience, bear testimony to the truth of what Evelyn says, as to the excellence of beech leaves for mattresses. We used always to think, that the most luxurious and refreshing bed is that which prevails universally in Italy, which consists of an absolute pile of mattresses, filled with the elastic spath of Indian corn ; we mean that delicate blade from which the large head of the plant bursts forth. These beds have the advantage of being soft as well as elastic, and we have always found the sleep enjoyed on them to be peculiarly sound and restorative ; but the beds made of beech leaves are really no whit behind them in these qualities, whilst the fragrant smell of green tea, which the leaves retain, is most gratifying. The only objection to them is, the slight crackling noise which they occasion when a person turns in bed ; but this is no inconvenience at all, or if so, it is an inconve- nience which is much overbalanced by the advantages of this most luxurious couch." 1217. All mattresses lose their elasticity, to a certain degree, by long use, and soon get so hard, that they require to be taken to pieces and undressed. This is usually performed by the manufacturers ; and it is more difficult to execute than in the case of feather beds. If of wool, this material must be taken out, washed, and carded. If of hair, this must be well loosened, and the dust beat and blown out with a bellows, before it is returned into the new case. Great care must be taken to place the wool or hair exactly even, other- wise the inequalities will prove very unpleasant, and the fixing at equal distances with packthread passed through at equal distances must not be omitted. 1218. Frauds are sometimes committed with respect to the materials of which mattresses are made; and advice was given us by an upholsterer to recommend the purchaser who has reason to suspect fraud, to open a portion of the sewing in the seam by cutting the thread, and with the fingers to pull from the very centre, between top and bottom,i some of the material. Instead of the best hair mattresses, as ordered or described, it haq been found that very inferior hair has been sometimes substituted; even a quantity on that from the hides of bullocks, goats, and deer, such as is used by the plasterers. Isl short, any description of hair that could be procured, and which is void of elasticity, per-I haps mixed up with some good horse hair. In wool and flock mattresses, which latter ara the cheapest, it is not imcommon to mix with the proper materials rag flocks, made fronj old blankets and flannels, and every kind of old wooUen fabric, probably from hospitals! prisons, barracks, &c. These are torn or cut into shreds and reduced to flocks by maA chinery, and carded. I 1219. A paillasse is a very thick mattress stuffed hard with drawn wheat straw, thel name being derived from the French, paille, straw. It is placed beneath the bed, and! sometimes under the mattress, for the purpose of raising the bed, and giving it elasticityJ When the bottom of the bedstead is made with laths, a paillasse is necessary, as the latha cut the mattress or bed. When two mattrasses only are used, or a mattress and feather bed only, sacking is best to be under them. 1220. Air beds were invented by John Clark of Bridgewater, in 1813, in consequence of the previous discovery of rendering cloth impervious to air by means of Indian rubber. These beds in fact consist merely of a bed of the proper size of this kind of cloth, into which air has been forced by a pump through a stop-cock, till it is sufficiently inflated to serve as a bed, and then shutting the stop-cock. This case is then inclosed in another of ticking of any kind of cloth. This contrivance is capable of being particularly useful to many persons ; for instance, to travellers, who, in transporting their beds, need, upon occasion, carry only a prepared bag and a force pump for air. Notwithstanding the gi-eat elasticity of air itself, these beds are not very elastic, but can never lose their elasticity so long as they are tight. They require no making up, can be got ready in a few minutes, and occupy little room when empty. The same invention is applied also to making elastic cushions to sit upon, very useful lilcewise to travellers ; but it is to be observed that such beds will require very great care, as the smallest hole will render them ussless. 1221. Dr. Arnolds water bed will be described under " Invalid Furniture." 1222. The other parts of bedding, such as blankets, sheets and coverlids, have been treated of under " Woollen, Cotton and Linen Manufoctures," and the modes of cleaning them under " Laundi7." Bolsters and pillows are usually stuffed with feathers ; and the same observations apply to them as to beds.