334 HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. SuBSECT. 6.—Duties of the Under-butler. 1535. Tlie xinder-hutler is under the immediate control and direction of the head-butler. The charge of the plate in daily use falls on him, he being responsible to the butler for the quantity given out to him, and for keeping it in proper order for the table. (See " Cleaning.") He also cleans the knives and forks used in the family, assists in laying the cloth, arranging the sideboards, and in waiting at table. With these occupations he is not expected to answer summonses of the bell, unless particular circumstances render that necessary, when this being specified to him by the butler or steward, he must arrange his other work accordingly. He must always be ready when occasions press to lend his assistance in any of the duties usually performed by the butler or footman. 1536. In all business of the cellar, such as brewing, bottling, fining, &c., he assists, and is expected to be almost as expert as the butler. SuBSECT. 7. — Duties of the Inferior Household. 1537. The duties of all inferior household servants, men or foot-boys consist, In their sharing the inferior parts of the work with upper men-servants, such as cleaning knives and shoes and windows, going of errands, and sometimes attending the carriage, to open the door of wliich, and to give orders to the coachman. Sect. VI. DUTIES OF WOBIEN SERVANTS. SuBSECT. 1. —Duties of the Housekeeper. 1538. The housekeeper of a first-rate establishment has, like the steward in his depart- ment, the entire direction of the female servants. Her value and importance to her princi- pals depends mainly upon her vigilant superintendence of each branch of female service, and on her constant investigation into the efficiency, steadiness, and general good conduct of each individual under her charge. It is her duty to see that the business of the house is regularly and properly performed : that every thing is done in its right season, every thing applied to its right use, and kept in its right place. Order with despatch should be the law of the house ; a law that carries on every business easily and tranquUly. Where observed, confusion and hurry rarely occur. The care of the furniture, of household linen, of all culinary and domestic utensils, devolve; on the housekeeper. The charge of the store-room belongs to her also. 'Whatever stores are purchased she receives, examines, and weighs them ; notes down, either in the store- book, or on tickets which she gives to the steward, the weight of each article, such memo- randums serving as a check upon the accounts of tradespeople. She stores the deposits in appropriate jars or vessels, and places each commodity in a situation best suited to its nature as to temperature. 1539. JVith cooking generally the housekeeper has little concern. Her care of the table is confined chiefly to pickling and preserving ; and in preparing confectionary, arranging the dessert, and making the ice-creams. These preparations are all performed in the still- room, and with the assistance of the still-room maid. Fulfilling each branch of her duty faithfully, the housekeeper, at the head of a large female establishment, has no sinecure. The early hours of the day arc engaged in seeing that others are properly at work then following her still- room employments, &c.; wlien all Household .business is ended, she has to set the maids to their sewing, placing in their hands the household linen which requires to be made, or to be repaired. Her evening should be occupied with prepiirations for the ensuing day. Lump-sugar is broken, raisins stoned, currants washed, cleansed, and dried. Spices pounded aud bottled, oranges and lemons peeled, and the juice strained and bottled for use. 1540. In her boohs she has then to enter expenditures of the day, and to note down such articles as are required in her store-room. Half yearly, or at convenient periods, she has to compare the inventories given to her on entering the family, with the articles enumerated, .md in making out new lists she makes notes of the deficiency which time or other causes have produced, and also of the articles which have been added to replenish such deficiencies. 1541. The housekeeper at the head of a smaller establishment in which there is neither house-steward nor man cook has many other duties to perform besides those enumerated above; marketing in such a case falls on her, and the higher branches of cookery, together with the arrangement of the table. SnBSECT. 2.—Duties of die Lady's Maid. 1542. The duties of the lady's maid, if not arduous, are unremitting, between her attend- ance on the toilet and her charge of the wardrobe of her lady. Her daily occupations commence with arranging the dressing-table, after the housemaid has swept and dusted the dressing-room, lighted the fire (in cold seasons of the year), and brought up hot water. 1543. After setting out and preparing every thing which may be required, she awakens her I.idy at the proper hour, and then retires till summoned by the hcW to attend her, to brush, comb, and dress her hair, and assist in the completion of her morning's toilet.