563 BREWING. Chap. HI. O o 2 Hops are dined nearly in the same manner as malt. They are spread upon a hair cloth, from eight to twelve inches deep, and placed in the kiln, and a steady heat is ap- plied'for eight or ten hours, until the ends of the hop stalks are quite shrivelled and dry ; they are then taken off, and laid out on a large floor to cool. When quite cold, they are packed up in hags, and sent to market. As the smoke from any fuel would he improper in drying malt, some kind that gives none is used, as coke, Welsh stone coal, or culm, or charcoal. If coal is the fuel, a contrivance called a cockle-oast is used. 3165. Mops abound in a bitter principle, which they possess in great perfection, and for which they are supposed to he chiefly employed ; this is soluble in water, and is easily communicated to the wort in boiling ; they likewise contain the astringent principle or tannin, which is probably the most important one, by its precipitating the great quantity of mucilage contained in the wort, and which is the principal cause of beer turning sour. They contain also a peculiar aromatic oil, from which they derive the odour and flavour by which ale is distinguished, and which is very apt to be dissipated and lost by long boiling. 3166. The ostensible use of hops in malt liquors is the rich aromatic hitter which they communicate, and which covers the sweet mawkish taste of the liquor produced from malt alone, together with their power of preserving the beer from acidity. But there appear to be some doubts as to which of their principles this latter effect is to be ascribed. It appears to be an erroneous view of the subject to suppose that the presei-ving power of the hop resides entirely in the bitter principle; and hence to imagine that all bitter substances have a similar preserving power. It is the tannin or astringent principle that acts in this manner, by precipitating the mucilage of the malt; and many substances are extremely bitter without possessing tannin. Modern chemistry has likewise shown that there is no such thing as a uniform unvarying bitter principle; but that the bitter of different vegetables is of a variable nature. Many of these are violent poisons. The cause of the bitter taste of the root of squills is very different from that of the hop; and many substances may communicate a bitter taste to liquor without having the power of coagulating mucilage, and thus preventing acidity. The hitter of some vegetables, instead of preventing acidity, is itself liable to become acid. On this account it is neces- sary to hesitate in admitting certain substances as substitutes for hops, until the chemist has given us their analyses. At the same time there is little doubt but many vegetables may be as useful in preserving beer, although they may not possess the peculiar aromatic flavour of the hop. Some of these will be mentioned in a subsequent part of our work. Dr. Paris states that " hops contain several elements of activity not in its substitutes. Its bitter principle is a tonic, its aromatic is warm and stimulant, and its astringent qualities precipitate the mucilage in the manner of tannin, and thus remove the cause of acid fermentation." Liebig is of opinion that the oil of the hops diminishes, in a great degree, the tendency of the alcohol to be converted into acetic acid, and therefore to preserve the beer. 3167. The narcotic principle which they are known to possess does not reside in the bitter, nor in the aroma, as some have supposed, but in a peculiar matter. A decoction of hops, hke all narcotics, produces a little exhilaration, and is said to be stupifying ; this effect is succeeded by depression. It is supposed that they add to the intoxicating property of the alcohol or spirit in beer, and the difference between wine and malt liquors in producing sleep is well known. It may be fairly doubted whether the constant use of a consider- able portion of such a narcotic may not be prejudicial in certain constitutions, where ex- ercise or much excitement are wanting to caiTy it off. Upon the whole, however, it is universally allowed, that hops render malt liquors more wholesome than they would other- wise be, considering their great tendency to acidity. 3168. Dr. Ives of New York has discovered that the active principles of the hop do not reside altogether in the leaves of the flower themselves, but chiefly in a fine yellow powder which may be separated from the hops by beating and sifting. This powder, which he has called lupulin, forms about one-sixth of the weight of the hops, and possesses the valuable properties ten times more than the leaves ; it is well known to hop dealers, who call it condition; and they value hops in proportion to the quantity of it which they contain. 316'J. Tlie best /loyxs are of a bright colour, between yellow and green ; but if they are very green, they have been gathered too young ; and when very brown, they have been allowed to ripen too long on the poles, or they are over-dried and have lost their aroma or peculiar flavour. They should have a powerful aromatic flavour, particularly when rubbed between the fingers, should feel clammy in the hand, and should possess much of the yellow powder above mentioned. Porter brewers prefer hops of a rather brown colour : hut ale and table beer brewers use pale hops. 3170. Hops do not keep perfectb/ good more than a year, and therefore it is best to pro- cure them of the present year's growth. They soon lose their essential oil, on which the aromatic flavour which they communicate to malt liquor depends: but they do not for several years lose their bitter and astringent principles. If they are more than a year old,