391 ON FOOD. Book VII. wc've i)iiblishe(l in a volume, which was translated into Englisli in 1750. These experi- ments were repeated by various individuals, not only in France, but at Florence, and in Poland. M. JJonnemain, a physician of Paris, succeeded in 1777, in hatching chickens in an apparatus heated by hot water ; and it is said, that chickens produced in this way supplied the table of Louis XIV. 2014. We give ike mvlliud used by M. Bonnemain, whfch is interesting, because it a])pears to have been the first example of the mode of producing a very uniform degree of temperature, by means of hot water, now extensively employed in warming buildings. A box in a wooden building was constructed for hatching the eggs, provided with many shelves in the inside, on which the eggs were piaced'; pipes proceeding from a boiler passed between all the shelves, and the heat was kept up l)y the circulation of hot water through them. The fire being liglited, the temperature is raised till the lieat is oljtained in the box wliich is necessary for incubation, which is about that of the human body, or !)8°; and this is ascertained by a thermometer placed in the box. It is convenient not to cover on the first day more I lian tlie twentieth part of the superficies of the shelves, ,ind to add cvcrv day, for twenty days, an equal quantity of eggs, so that on the twenty-first day, the quantity of eggs first placed will bo for tlie greater part h.itchcd ; and wo may thus obtain every day nearly tile same number of chickens ; but this, nevertheless, may be occasionall}; regulated by the particular season of the year. During the first days of incubation, whetlier n.atural or artificial, the small portion of water contained within the substance of the egg evaporates through the pores in its sliell ; this is replaced by .an e(|ual portion of .air, which is neces- sary to support tile respiration of the chick; but as the atmospheric .air, which surrounds the eggs in the box at that degree of temperature, is either completely dry, or but little humid, so the chick would greatly sulfer, or finally perish, from this kind of desiccation, were not some remedy provicled ; and thus, in order tliat the eggs m.iy be better hatched in the dry seasons, the hens cover them with the earth on the floor of tile place where they sit. In artificial incubation, to keep tlie air in the stove constantly liumid, they place in it flat vessels, such as plates, filled witli water. When the chickens are hatched, they are removed from the stove, and carried to another box called the cage, where they are fed with millet, and nestle under a sheep's skin witli wool in it suspended over them ; tliis is called an artificial mother, and is to supply the place of the shelter aftbrded by the hen. They also separate, by means of partitions in the cage, tlie chickens as they are hatched each day. in order to modify their nourishment agreeably to their age. The heat in the water, and consequently in tlie box, is very accurately regulated by means of an apparatus very ingenious, but too complicated to describe in this place. The complete details may be seen iu Gill's " Technological Itepository," 1-eb. 1828, p. 70. 2UI5. Lately, the public has been mnnscd hy the exhibition, in London, of a mode very similar of peTforming the same process, whicli ap]ioarH to be comjiletely successful. A large box is di%'lded by shelves in the manner of the hot closets that are heated by steam ; each division, into which the eggs are laid in flannel, is surrounded on the top, bottom, .and sides, iiy steam, and kept exactly to the same temperature. By doors opening into tlie several liivisions, tlie eggs arc peri^ectly accessible, but must be turned every twenty-four hours. On tlie eighteenth day, the audible sign of life is apparent, by the faint piping of the chick being heard: and on the twentieth or twenty-first day, tlie joung creature liberates itself from its prison by break- ing the shell in a I'ur ious manner witli its bill, and by the muscular exertions of its limbs emerges into a new existence. It is curious to see the little animals run about .and peck their food, wliich is ground biscuit, and hard eggs chopiied, iduiost immediately alter their birth. These are then put into a low glass case, the floor of wliich is co\ ered witli gravel; and in a lew days they .acquire strength enough to be removed into a larger space on the floor, also covered with gravel. The food is scattered among the gravel, and they feed tliemselves from the time of leaving the eggs. Upon the whole, the process of hatching in this manner appears to be very simple ; but wliether it would be profit.able, as a speculation, to breed up chickens thus for the market in tliis climate, where the difficulties will be found much greater than in Egypt, remains to be as- certained by an experiment, which, however, deserves to be made. In New Yorli, where the climate is severe, they contrive, by means of artificial lieat, to make the hens lay all the winter, and likewise breed up chickens. 201(1. Artificial incubation is practised amongst the Chinese. Whole swarms of ducks are bred in barges, surrounded with projecting stages covered with coops Ibr the reception of these birds, which are taught by the sound of the wliistle to jump into tlie rivers and canals in search of food, and by another call to return to their lodgings. They are usually hatched by placing their eggs, as tlie ancient Egyptians were wont to do, in small ovens or sand-baths, in order that the same female may continue to lay eggs throughout the year: which would not he the case if she had a young brood to attend. The ducks wlien killed arc usually split open, salted, and dried in the sun, in which state tiiey ailbrd an excellent relish to rice or other vegetables. 2017. In the following description of birdji employed as food, we have not considered it as essential to arrange them according to the classification usually adopted iu treating of their natural history, but rather according to their relative importance as food. They are, however, also grouped according to their natural classes, as nearly as is consistent •with our view. Sect. II. COMMON OR DOMESTIC FOWL {Gallus domesticus, Linn.). 2018. The tame or domestic fowl, so common with us, is supposed to be derived from some of the wild species which are found in great plenty in the forests of India : but they have been domesticated from time immemorial. 2019. Like other domesticated animals, they have been divided into dififerent breeds, of which those most esteemed here are, the common dunghill or barn-door fowl, often ■white, but also of every variety of colour; the Dorking; the black or Poland; the Ban- tam ; the game-fowl; and the Chittagong or Malay. Besides these, there are several others more rare. 2020. T/ie common dnnghill fowl, known also by the name of the barndoor, white, or English breed, is of a middle size, and will become fat upon the usual run of the farm- yard, -where they thrive upon the otTals of the stable and other refuse, with perhaps some small regular daily feeds. At thrcsliing-titne they become particularly fat, and both from » A wood-cut of Bonnemain'j apparatus is inserted in the section " On Wanning Buildings by Mot Water."