FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. I Chap. IX. 505 SuBSECT. 6.—Mulberry (Morns, Linn.). 2798. The mulberry tree is a native of Asia, and has been always a most valuable tree I to the Chinese and Persians for feeding their silk worms. There are several species. 2799. The while mulberry {Morus alba) is a delicate tree, though it grows well in Spain, Italy, and the south of France ; the berries are light coloured and insipid, but its leaves are the best for feeding the silk worm. It is seldom cultivated in this country. 2800. The black mulberry (Morus nigra) is a larger and more hardy tree, and is very . commonly grown in England : the fruit is a blackish red, and its juice stains the hands a . deep colour : it is excellent for making a peculiar wine. 2801. Mulberries are brought to the dessert, and are esteemed for their highly aromatic flavour, and their sub-acid nature. They are considered as cooling, laxative, and generally •wholesome. This fruit was very highly esteemed by the Romans, who appear to have preferred it to every other. The mulberry tree is stated to have been introduced into this country in 1548, being &st planted at Sion House, where the original trees still thrive. The planting of them was much encoui-aged by King James I. about 1605 ; and considerable attempts were made at that time to rear silk worms on a lai'ge scale for the purpose of making silk; but these endeavoui's have always failed, the climate being scarcely wai-m enough. ScBSECT. 7. — Elderberry. 2802. TJie common elder tree (Sambucus nigra, Linn.) is a native of this country, and is found near wet ditches and old walls. The wine made from elderberries is too well known by families in the country to require any encomium; it is almost the only wine that the cottager can procure, and, when well made, is a most excellent and wholesome beverage. That made from the white elderberry resembles some rich grape wine. The young tender shoots are much relished as a pickle ; and if a syrup be made from ripe elderberries, with a few bitter almonds, and added to brandy, it has all the flavour of the very best cherry brandy. 2803. Professor Martin observes that this tree contains a whole magazine of physic to rustic practitioners. An excellent healing ointment is made from the green inner bark, and also with the leaves and flowers. Infusions of the flowers promote cuticular secre- tion, and form a powerful sudorific. The juice of the inner bark is one of the best hydragogues. No quadruped will eat the leaves of this tree, which also drive ajvay all insects, except the peculiar ones that feed upon them. SuBSECT. 8. — Barberry (Berberis vulgaris, Linn.) 2804. The barberry is found in woods, coppices, and hedges in England, and is a native. The flowers are small and beautiful; and, when they first appear, have a perfume like cowslips, but w hich changes to a putrid and most disagreeable smell, particularly towards the commencement and at the decay of the flowers. The fruit is extremely acid and astringent, but is cooling, and is thought to create ai)petite, though seldom eaten. Con- serves and jellies made of it are refreshing and strengthening to the stomach. Barberries are employed as pickles and for syrups, which are considered as medicinal. There are several kinds; the fruit of some have stones, and others are without. SnnsECT. 9. — Whortleberry {Vaccinium Myrtillus, Linn.). 2805. This is called also the hartleberry and bilberry. It grows wild abundantly upon our heathy commons and uncultivated hills. It is plentiful in the north of Europe. It is found on Leith Hill in Surrey; also in Devon. The fruit is seldom brought to the London market, although much relished by some persons in tarts or cream, or made into jellies. There are several varieties : the purple are rather larger than juniper berries, and are covered with a fine blue or purple powder, like the bloom of plums. They are seldom cultivated. SuBSECT. 10. — Cranberry (Vaccinium xdiginosum. Linn.). 2806. This berry is a red variety of the whortle, and is much esteemed in tarts or with cream. It is scarcely cultivated in gardens, but grows wild plentifully in peaty bogs and marshes, particularly in Lincolnshire, Sussex, Cumberland, and other similar places in Britain, also in Scotland. Considerable quantities of fine fruit are also imported from Russia and Germany packed in casks. A large sort is brought from North Ame- rica, and is used by the Lond(m pastry-cooks for tarts ; but this kind is inferior to the English cranberries. Some have been brought from New Holland, of a superior flavour. 2807. Cranberries are considerably astringent, and are thought to I'estore the appetite;