Book VIII. 658 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. advantages over the apple; it is capable of succeeding in a greater variety of soil, and is more productive of fruit. 3707. The lest pears fur pern/, or, at least, the sorts which have hitherto been deemed, the fittest for making this liquor, are so excessively tart and harsh, that no one can think of eating them as fruit; for even hungry swine will not feed upou them. In Worcester, Gloucestershire, and the adjacent counties, they are planted in the hedge-rows and the most common fields; a practice which, perhaps, should be more followed, as pears are capable of affording a light and agreeable nourishment, either in soups or stewed when green. 3708. Mr. Knight states, that in the making of perry the pears are ground and pressed in exactly the same manner as those of apples in the manufacturing of cyder; but that it is not usual for the reduced pulp to be suffered to remain any length of time without being pressed. It has never been the practice in Herefordshire, or in the counties in the vicinity of it, to blend the juices of the different varieties of the pear, in order to correct the defects of one kind by the opposite properties of the other. It is, however, he allows, more easy to find the required portion of sugar and of astringency, as well as of flavour, in three or four varieties than in one; hence, he supposes, a judicious mixture of fruits affords a prospect of preat benefit. 3709. The juices of the pear and the apple are constituted of the same component parts, but the proportions are different. In the juice of the pear the tanning principle is pre- dominant, with a less proportion of sugar, mucilage, and colouring matter. 3710. The vielhod of fermenting perry is nearly the same as that of cyder ; but the former does not afford the same indications as the latter by which the proper period of racking off may be known. The thick scum that collects on the surface of cyder rarely appears in the juice of the pear, and during the time of the suspension of its fermentation, the ex- cessive brightness of the former liquor is seldom seen in the latter; but where the fruit has been regularly ripe, its produce will generally become moderately clear and quiet, in a few days after it is made, and it should then be drawn off from its grosser lees. An excess of fermentation is prevented by the means used in the making of cyder, and the liquor is rendered bright, if necessary, by isinglass. 3711. In the after-management of perry the method is the same as that of cyder; but it does not so well bear situations where it is much exposed to change of temperature. In the bottle it almost always retains its good qualities, and in that situation it is always advisable to put it, if it remains sound and perfect at the conclusion of the first succeeding summer. 3712. On the whole, the pear tree furnishes a less popular liquor than the apple, but is more productive, furnishing in the proportion of 600 gallons of liquor to the acre, when the trees are full-grown and in good bearing : the produce of a single tree will often be twenty gallons of perry. It is to be observed, that, though perry is made in a much smaller quantity than cyder, yet the former, of the best kind, and bottled, is generally esteemed as quite equal to the latter. 3713. Mr. Booth, in his work on wine-making, thus describes a sort of wine In which pears were emplored: " In the north of France, having heated fifty-five pounds of the juice of wild pears to 180°, 1 added about a tenth of that weight of raisins, and bunged up tlie whole in a cask. In a short time the heat of the liquor had f.illen to 77°, when I drained out the raisins, bruised them, returned them into the must, and closed the cask, so as to allow the fermentation to take place. A fortnight after, the wine, or perry, was racked into stone cans, and, after standing three months in the cellar, it was reckoned by good judges equal to the best white wine from grapes." Sect. III. MEAD. 3714. Mead is a vinous liquor prepared from honey diluted with water and fermented, and which was formerly much used in England, as well as among many northern nations. It appears to have been a beverage of great antiquity, being, perhaps, the only fermented liquor made in the northern parts of Europe to which the cultivation of corn had not yet extended, and where the climate was too cold for the vine; it therefore rivalled the wines of the south. It is the Hydromel of the Romans; Pliny records, and Virgil cele- brates, the drinks made with honey mixed with fruits. By the Saxons it was called Mcda, Avhence the mead and mctheglin of modern times. It was drunk in great excess at the festivals among the Norsemen, and filled the skull-cups in the hall of Odin. It is said that Attila, king of the l luns, died from indulging too freely in this favourite liquor. Mead was well known to the ancient Britons, and was highly valued by their posterity long after they were acquainted with other liquors. The mead-maker held a considerable rank in the courts of British princes. Honey appears to have been more abimdant for- merly than at present, when the extension of agriculture has deprived the bees of much of their favourite wild food. The introduction of sugar has likewise, to a considerable