Chap. VIII. ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 689 to it clarified sugar in the proportion of a pound to each quart; flavour to your taste with cinnamon or cloves. The flavour will be extracted from the kernels, although they have not been broken. Some use whiskey instead of brandy. 39r9. Orange ralafia.—Vsxe off the external rind of six Seville oranges, not including any of the white skin ; slice a dozen peach kernels, and infuse them for a week in a quart of rectified spirit or brandy ; press out three pints of orange or white currant juice, in wliicli dissolve two pounds of powdered white sugar, and add it to the spirit. jVfter it has stood two months, pour off the clear part, filter the remainder, add them together, and bottle for use. . , .... , 3910. Rql(ffi(i of apricots is prepared in two ways ; viz. either by boiling the apricots m white wine, adding to the liquor an equal quantity of brandy, with sugar, cinnamon, cloves, mace, and the kernels of apricots peeled and bruised ; infusing the whole for ten days, or a fortnight; then straining the liquor, and putting it up for use ; or else by infusing the apricots, cnt in pieces, in brandy, passing it through a straining bag, and then putting in the ingredients as above. 3911. Pe<iches and pt'urs in brandy may he managed in tlie same manner. 3U12. Grem or IValnut rntnfla In a quart of rectified spirit infuse beaten cinnaraon, bruised cloves, and sliced nutmeg, of each two drachms. Pound as many very young green walnuts as will aflbrd, when beaten to a pulp, enough to fill a two quart measure, add the rinds of two cucumbers, and a pound and a half of powdered sugar. Mix tliis with the spirit and spices When it has stood two months, pour ofl' the clear part, press the residuum, which filter, and mix them together. 3913. Imperial ratafia In a gallon of rectified spirit infuse half an ounce of beaten cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of bruised cloves, and two nutmegs sliced, the external peel of two Seville oranges, half a pound of pcich leaves, the same quantity of black currant leaves, half a pound of jarraisins stoned and cut small, with twenty peach or nectarine kernels sliced. Let these infuse for ten days in the spirit; then take three pints of morella cherry juice, a quart of raspberry juice, and three pints of washed strawberries, in which dissolve six pounds of powdered sugar, and add them to the spirit. Let it stand four months, occasionally stirring or shaking it; pass it through a flannel bag; press the residuum with a screw press, and filter it; mix all to- gether and bottle it. 3914. iVhite ratafia of grapes.—Take some fine ripe muscadine grapes, press out the juice, strain it, and add as much brandy as juice ; dissolve some sugar in the juice, and add a little mace, cinnamon, and cloves. Let the whole infuse for a fortnight, stirring it every day ; then strain and bottle it. 391.5. Red ratafia of grapes By the same method you may make red ratafia from the red Frontignan grapes ; except that the grapes, when bruised, must be suffered to ferment three or four days before the juice is pressed out, because the colour, which resides principally in the skins of the grapes, will by that means be extracted. 3916. Ratafia of rasiiberries.—To a pound and a quarter of raspberry juice add a quarter of a pound of cherry juice ; boil this with two pounds of sugar ; add four pints of brandy ; leave it to infuse for a fortnight; when clear, bottle it. 3917. Common ratafia. —TA\ie an ounce of bruised nutmegs, half a pound of hitter almonds, blanched and chopped, and a grain of ambergris, well rubbed with sugar in a mortar; infuse in two quarts of proof spirit for two weeks, and filter. 3918. " hiqucur tie qiiatrc fruits" m ratafia from four frvits.—Take ripe morella cherries eight pounds, raspberries four pounds, strawberries and currants, four pounds each. Prepare the juiCe from each separately, by bruising the fruit; and make a sweet but not thick syrnp, by adding refined sugar; then strain this clear. When all the syrups are ready, mix them tngethi-r, and add a gill of French brandy to every pint of syrup, together with a few of the cherry kernels, and then bottle the liqueur. Some add cloves and mace. 3919. Rntnfia rte Noi/eau.—Bruise a quarter of a pound of the kernels of apricots, nectarines, or peaches, two ounces of bitter almonds blanched, and the rind of a lemon shaved thin. Put these into a quart of the best brandy, or proof spirit in a stone bottle, and place it near a tire for ten days, shaking it frequently; add a pound of clarified sugar, and filter the liquor. The principal flavouring substance in noyeau is the essential oil of bitter almonds, which is well known to he a very violent poison. This essential oil is now made in London by chemists, and sold to the publicans and dealers in cordials, to make what they call " genuine noyeau," and to confectioners and cooks to flavour their custards, c:U(cs, kc. But it is evident that a substance so dangerous should not be put into the hands of persons not sufBciently acquainted with its deleterious pro- perties, if employed injudiciously. It is to be observed tliat tlie small quantity usually employed may be harmless. 3920. Rum shrub.—Take nine pints of rum, one pint of fresh lemon-juice, and another of orange-juice, tile peels of four oranges, the same of two lemons, and two pounds of sugar ; put these into a cask with ten pints of water. If it should not be sweet enough, add more sugar ; if too sweet, more lemon-juice. Set the cask on end, with a cock near the bottom, and let it stand to fine. Some add four gallons of raisin wine and four pints of orange-flower water. W>\. Branity shrub—Made in thes.nrae wa5',only using brandy instead of rum. Instead of lemon-juice, the concrete arid of lemons may be used, and a few drops of the essential oil of lemons may be added if the flavour Of the lemon-peel be required. SoBSECT. 13. — Cordials. .3922. The following compounds are intended to be used rather in a medicinal way than any other. They may be prepared either by distillation or by infusion. We shall give directions for both. 3023. Anise-seed corilial.—Vwt Into a still one pound of bruised anise-seeds ; proof spirit six g.allons ; water half a gallon ; draw olTfive gallons with a moderate fire. By infusion : add three-quarters of an ounce of oil of anise-seed, and four pounds of refined sugar to eight gallons of rectified spirit; fine with an ounce of alum. 3924. Caraway cordial, by distillation, is made as the last: some add orange-peel. Or, mix together three- ' quarters of an ounce of oil of caraway, and four pounds of sugar ; add ten drops of oil of cinnamon, two drops ■ of the essential oil of orange, and .is much of that of lemons ; fine with alum. .192.'). Cinnnworecorrf/a/.—Dissolve one pennyweight of oil of cinnamon with sugar as above ; add to it three quarters of a pound of rectified spirits, half an ounce of orange-peel, and as much lemon-peel, with the same quantity of cardamom seeds ; put one gallon of water to this. Fine with alum, iind if you wish it coloured, atld some burnt su^ar. 3926. CUron cordial—Beat up half an ounce of essence of lemon, and as much of that of oranges, with three or four pounds of refined sugar ; add to this a quarter of a pound each of dried lemon and orange-peel; infuse this in six gallons of rectified spirits that has stood upon seven pounds of figs for a week ; if required, add ■ some water. 3!i27. Geneva without distillation—Take one ounce of the oil of juniper, and half an ounce of the oil of sweet fennel, three-quarters of an ounce of oil of turpentine ; and first be.it up these with refined sugar, and then ) add to them one pint of strong spirit of wine. Put this to twenty gallons of proof spirit, and sugar to taste • fine with an ounce and a half of alum. ' 392«. Gin bitters—Mix with refined sug.ir half .an ounce e.ich of the essence of lemon and orange-peel a ■drachm of oil of wormwood, halfa pound of dried or.ange-peel ; add this to five g.illons of the best gin, and let the whole remain together for a fortnight, when it will he ready for use. Dilute it with gin to the taste