630 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. fectlon. It is very common for the made wines to possess a bad flavour when first made, not unlike that which has hitherto infested most of the wines of the Cape. Time dissipates tliis, even in the bottles." 3541. With regard to the durability of these wines, Dr. Macculloeh further observes, that he has kept some of them for twenty years, and during all tliat time with evident improvement. They seem to be as little liable to destruction as wines of the best manu- facture ; and this, it is to be observed, without the addition of brandy. 3542. If the wine is intended to be sweet like malmsey, the grapes should be ripe, and contain much saccharine matter, or a large proportion of sugar must be used; also the fermentation should not be carried on so far as to change all the sugar ; but it must be checked in the first instance, as soon as it is thought to be sufficient for this kind of wine, leaving still a good deal of sugar unaltered : this is done by removing ail the yeast and scum as soon as it is formed ; sometimes, if it is thought that there is still too much fer- ment in the liquor for the quantity of sugar, it may be taken out by adding some solution of isinglass, which will precipitate the ferment; or more sugar may be added for the fer- ment to act upon, and thus increase the strength of the wine. In the wine countries, where much sweet wine is made, this effect is produced in various other ways; sometimes by racking and sulphuring, processes which will be afterwards described, by a partial drying of the grapes, or by the addition of boiled must, sugar, or honey. 3543. The account by Mr. Hamilton of the manner in which the wine was made formerly from the vineyard at Painshill is so interesting a document, that we shall give it in his own words. *' The vineyard at Painshill is situated on the south side of a gentle hill, the soil a gravelly sand. It is planted entirely witli tlie two sorts of Burgundy grapes ; the Auvergnat, which is the most delicate, but the tenderest; iind the miller grape, commonly called the black cluster, which is more hardy. The first year I attempted to make the red wine in the usual way, by treading tlie grapes, then letting them ferment in a vat, till all the husks and impurities formed a thick crust at the top, the boiling ceased, and the clear wine was drawn off from the bottom. This essay did not answer; the wine was so very harsh and austere that I despaired of ever making red wine fit to drink ; but through that harshness T perceived a fl,ivour something like that of some small French white wines, which made me hope I should succeed better with white n ine. That experiment succeeded far beyond my most sanguine expectations; for the very first year I made white wine, it nearly resembled the flavour of Champagne \ and in two or three years more, as the vines grew stronger, to my great amazement my wine had a finer flavour than tiie best Champagne I ever tasted ; the first running was as clear as spirits, tlie second running was ceil tie perdrix, and both of them sparkled and creamed in the glass like Champagne. It would be endless to mention how many good wine-merchants were deceived by my wine, and tliought it superior to any Champagne they ever drunk; even the Duke de Mirepoix preferred it to any other wine ; but such is the prejudice of most peonle against any thing of English growth, I generally found it most prudent not to declare where it grew till after they had passed their verdict upon it. The surest proof I can give of its excellence is, that I have sold it to wine-merchants for fifty guineas per hogshead ; and one wine-merchant, to whom I sold five hundred pounds worth at one time, assured me he sold some of the best of it for 7*. (id. to 10s. Gd. a bottle. " After many years' experience, the best method I found of making and managing it was this. — I let the grapes liang till they had all the maturity the season would give them ; then they were carefully cut off with scissors, and brought home to the wine barn in small quantities, to prevent their heating, or pressing one aiiother ; then they were all picked off the stalks, and all the mouldy or green ones were discarded before they were put upon the press, where they were all pressed in a few hours after they were gathered ; much would run from them before the press squeezed them, from their own weight upon one another. This running was as clear as water, and sweet as syrup, and all this of the first pressing, and part of the second, continued white ; the other pressings grew reddish, and were not mixed with the best. As fast as the wine ran from the press into a large receiver, it was put into the hogsheads, and closely bunged up. In a few hours one could hear the fermentation begin, which would soon burst the casks if not guarded against by hooping them strongly with iron, and securing them in strong wooden frames, and the heads with wedges ; in the height of the fermentation I have frequently seen the wine oozing through the pores of the staves. These hogsheads were left all the depth of wmter m the cool barn, to reap the benefit ol the frosts. When the fermentation was over, which was easily discovered by the cessation ol noise and oozing, but, to be more certain, by pegging the cask, when it would be quite clear ; then it was racked olf into clean hogsheads, and carried to the vaults before any warmth of weather could raise a second fermentation. In March the hogs- heads were examined; if any were notvery fine they were fined down with common fisli glue in the usual man- ner ; those that were fine of themselves were not fined <lown, and all were l>ottlcd about the end of March ; and in about six weeks more would be in perfect order lor drinking, .and would be in their prime above one year; but the second year the flavour and sweetness would abate, and would gradually decline, till at last it lost all flavour and sweetness ; and some that I kept sixteen years became so like old hock, that it might pass for such to one who was not a perfect connoisseur. The only art I ever used to it was putting three pounds of white sugar-candy to some of the hogsheads, when the wine was first tunned from the press in order to conform to a rage that prevailed to drink noue but very sweet Champagne. I am convinced much good wine might be made in many parts of the south of li^ngland. Many parts are south of I'.ainshill. many soils may be yet fitter for it, and many situations must be so; for mine was much ox|)osod to the south-west wind (the worst of all for vines), and the declivity was rather too steep ; yet witli those dis.adv!int,ages it succeeded many years. Indeed, the uncertainty of our climate is against it, and many fine crops have been spoiled by May frosts and wet summers ; but one year balances many disappointments." 3544. This example is of great importance ; for the grapes were grown in a situation, of which, as to soil and exposure, many parallel instances are to be found almost every- where throughout the country, and with land of no value whatever for the ordinary pur- poses of agriculture. It is said that some of the vines may yet be seen on the spot, which is now covered with a plantation of Scotch firs. 3545. Not only can wine be made from the vine in countries where, from the climate, its fruit will not ripen, but chemical examination has proved that the young shoots, the tendrils, and even the leaves, contain certain principles exactly similar to the immature fruit, and they have been employed in the same manner for making the same kind of wine. These had been tried with success in France many years ago: but as (he discovery was little important in that coimlry, where grapes were fruitful, it M'as neglected. We are indebted