Onxp. II. 935 ICES AND COMPOTES. ihhe strawberries, add to tliem some sugar finely pounded, and the cream fresh and thick, •^iqueeze and strain the juice of half a lemon into the strawberries and cream. Pass the uvhole through a sieve into the freezing pot, and work as before directed. In this ti-ream, as well as in others, there should be no preponderance either of the flavour of the E! trawberries or lemon. 5457. Raspberry, currant and raspberry, and pine-apple ice creams, are all made in the pame way as strawberry ice cream. Sect. III. ■WATER ICES. 5458. These ices are made of the juice of ripe fruits strained, and sweetened with cla- ri'ified sugar, and put into the freezing pot, and worked as before directed. Sometimes Ihhe mixture is flavoured with a little lemon juice, or if the freezing is not complete, water iss added to the juice, but in a small quantity, or the mixture will become too solid. ^When congealed, it should be perfectly smooth, and soft enough to break easily with the tppoon. 5459. To entrant water ice, the juice of raspberries or of Kentish cherries is sometimes Bodded to soften the acid of the currant juice. 5460. To cherry ice, a flavour of noyeau is sometimes added. 5461. To apricot ice, the kernels blanched and pounded with a little sugar, some lemon- juuice, and a little water are added, care being taken to strain the whole free from every liiimip before it is put into the freezing pot. 5462. Lemon-water ice is composed of the juice of lemons, into which the peel of one Ifcmon out of four is finely rasped into the juice. A syrup of clarified sugar is added in a ^quantity sufiicient to sweeten the whole, which must be carefully strained through a lawn siiieve, before it is put into freezing pot and worked. To this ice, ginger may be added, or liqueurs, such as Maraschino, or wines, such as Champagne, Madeira, &c. Sect. IV. COMPOTES. 5463. Compotes are fruits prepared in syrup for immediate use, and chiefly as accom- roaniments of ices. In winter, or when fresh fruits are not to be had, the compotier must toe supplied with preserved fruits, prepared in a manner similar to that in which the fresh fcruits are formed into compotes. 5464. Green apricot compote.— Of this fruit is made a very favourite compote. The Ihhinning of an apricot tree will often supply the fruit which should be gathered for this Jipurpose before the stones become hard. The down upon them must be removed by sscalding them in water, in which wood ashes or charcoal had been previously boiled, but JStrained off. The apricots are thrown in when the water is hot, and as they rise to the f'surface are skimmed off, and immediately thrown into cold water. They are taken out of [ttbe cold water, drained, and rubbed with a cloth. When the down is cleaned ofi', the iffruit must be put into a hot syrup, and then after once boiling up, and being well scummed, tthey must be poured into a basin till the succeeding day. The syrup is then drained ifrom them, boiled up, and poured over them again, with some fresh syrup added to it. IThe apricots and syrup are then boiled up for four or five days successively, more syrup ^being added as it is washed in each day's boiling. When boiled up for the last time, the .npricots must be taken out, the syrup boiled to the great thread, and poured over the fruit, 'which is then ready for the compotier. This compote will be scarcely good if kept more tlthan two days. 5465. Ripe apricot compote. — Peel, divide into halves, and stone some fine ripe apricots. FPrick them all over with a needle. Blanch them carefully, and drain the water from I each by gentle pressure. Put them in syrup, and boil them up ; scum the syrup ; let the whole stand to cool, then boil the syrup, and pour it over them several times successively. 5466. Ripe plum compote. — Prick the plums with a needle, and put them into cold water, while boiling a pan of water, into which they must be put as soon as the water ' boils. When the fruit rises to the surface, take them out of the hot water, and put them nagain into cold water. Prepare the syrup for them, and boil them up in it. Pour them linto a basin, and leave them for some hours, and then boil them up once or twice more; »«cum them well, and let them cool for use. 5467. Strawherry compote.— Strawberries for a compote require very little boiling. It •is sufficient to pour over them some currant jelly boiling. 54fi8. Raspberry compote— Hafphcrrics as well as slrawlicrrics are too delicate ft fruit to require much lioillng. When tliey have been carefully selected for their size and ripeness, they must be washed In cold »watcr and drained. The syrup must be, while boiling, poured over them. In this syrup they must remain 3 O 4