436 ON FOOD. Book VII. being of superior quality, they are sometimes very inferior. At Billingsgate they arc sold out of boats which lie alongside the market, in quantities not under one peck ; and at the opening of the season, the line of dealers extends all along Thames Street and over Loudon Bridge. Many are exported to Holland, Germany, and other parts of the Continent. Su BSECT. 5.— Hie Scallop (^Ostrect Tnuximu, Jjinn.^. 2275. The shell of this fish is well known as that which was formerly worn on the hat or coat by the pilgrims, as a mark that they had crossed the sea lor the purpose of paying their devotions in the Holy Land; and in commemoration of this, it is still preserved in the arms of many families. It is a pecten in the system of Lamarck ; and is a very elegant shell of a great variety of colours, acquiring the size of five or six inches across. It lies at the bottom of deep water in beds, from which they are dredged up. The fish is very palatable, though of a peculiar flavour, and seldom eaten but in the fishing towns. It is boiled, roasted or baked, or pickled in vinegar. S0BSECT. 6. — The Mussel {Mylilus edulis, Linn.). 2276. The mussel is found adhering to rocks by a strong silky beard, frequently in such quantities as completely to cover them. Since many persons who have eaten mussels have suffered severely, these fish are generally supposed to be occasionally poisonous. The cause of this does not appear to have been sufficiently ascertained. Some pretend to take out the part which they suppose to be deleterious, namely, a dark substance, and, in fact, the heart, which is perfectly harmless; others speak of the beard as indigestible. Lately M. Bremnil is said to have discovered that the poisonous property of mussels depends upon the presence of a minute starfish which enters into the shell in summer, but is never found in it in winter. He collected some of these starfish, and gave them to dogs, upon whom the same symptoms were produced that appear when poisonous mussels are eaten. There are likewise fresh-water mussels, but they are never eaten with us. SuBSECT. 7.— The Cockle (Cardium edule. Linn.). 2277. The common cockle is a bivalved shell fish found on all the sandy shores of Europe. Cockles bury themselves in the sand, out of which they are dug. They have a peculiar and agreeable flavour, and form an extremely wholesome food. They vary considerably in size on different coasts, and are very large on some of the Scottish shores. They are eaten boiled, plain, or fried, and are frequently used for sauce instead of oysters. Some have described them as of difficult digestion; but this does not appear to be the fact, from their universal use and general good character. SuBSECT. 8.— The Razor Fish {Solen siliqua. Linn.). 2278. This is a bivalved shell fish, so called from the shells- having nearly the form of the handle of a razor; it is only foimd on some particular coasts, and burrows in the sand. It is about six or seven inches long, and about one inch broad, the hinge being on the middle of the side. When the two shells are closed, they resemble a tube open at both ends. Part of the fish is of a cylindrical form, white and firm. They are eaten boiled or fried, and are very delicate and wholesome, although, perhaps, not very digestible. SuBSECT. 9.— The Perriwinkle and Whelk. 2279. These are well known univalved molluscoe, of little importance as general food, though eaten by the poorer classes, and su4ciently wholesome. SuBSECT. 10.—Helix pomatia. 2280. A large species of land snail having a shell, called Helix pomatia, is regularly bred and kept in gardens on the Continent for the table. In German)-, particularly in Menna, sacks of these molluscEe are brought to the markets and sold ; they are there considered as great delicacies. The inclosure in which they are kept is surrounded by boards, having the upper edge covered with small iron spikes, over which the snails never attempt to pass. They are fed upon cabbage leaves. This article of food was highly prized among the ancient inhabitants of Italy. The Romans bred them in prodigious numbers, fat- tening them in places called cochlearia, a particular description of which is given by Varro ; and Pliny informs us that the method was invented by Fulvius Hirpinus, who lived a little before the time of Cajsar. This luxury grew to such a height, that it was restrained by a special law. The Helix pomatia, or " esculent snail," was first introduced into England from Italy by a branch of the Howard family, one of the daughters of which, ■when labouring under consumption, having been recommended to eat soup made of it. Its medicinal virtues are, however, disregarded by physicians. These snails are not common in our fields, but are found at Boxhill, and in the vicinity of Dorking in Surrey. They are never brought to table with us.