MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROOM. Chap. VI. 1247 Such are the first symptoms, and their occurrence suddenly in a healthy person, and twenty minutes or an hour after a meal or taking any thing into the stomach, they excite ■ suspicion of poisoning. The medical man of course is at once sent for, and while he is coming, vomiting may be increased, or if not present, produced, by mustard and water, ox salt and water ; draughts of warm water may also be taken to excite very copious vomiting. If full vomiting, not merely retching, occur, the chance of recovery is greatest. Two tea-spoonfuls of mustard in a glass of hot water will generally make an adult vomit copiousl}'. 7302. Corrosive sublimafe. — The early symptoms of this poison are much the same as those of arsenic, but the pain is more violent, and the taste is most acrid and disagreeably metallic. If fi-om these or any other circumstances, corrosive sublimate is suspected or known to be the poison, then white of egg beaten with water should be given ; it unites chemically -with the corrosive sublimate, and the compound formed is quite inert. 7303. Verdigris.—If the person be known to have taken copper, or if it be suspected from the smell and the greenish colour of the vomited matters, and from the coppery taste in the mouth, then white of egg, not mixed with water, must be given here also. 7304. Opium and laudanum. — This is one of the poisons most frequently taken by suicides; an over dose of laudanum or of some preparation of morphia is also sometimes taken by mistake. It is soon suspected that a person has taken opium ; he is found lying in a state of stupor, as if in a fit of apoplexy, breathing heavily, or hardly breathing at all. Now the question is, what is the matter with this person ? Has he apoplexy ? is it sudden death from some internal disorder, or is it poisoning by opium ? — perhaps a bottle or a glass will be found about, and give some clue : the pupils of the eye also are looked at, and found to be much contracted ; now in apoplexy they are generally enlarged. The balance, then, is in favour of its being poisoning by opium, and the principles of cure are first to get the opium out of the stomach by emetics,—an operation afterwards done more eflFectually by the surgeon with his stomach-pump; or if the patient can swallow, fifteen or twenty grains of white vitriol, "sulphate of zinc," (a salt which can be procured from an adjoining druggist) should be given, or mustard and water, as in the case of poisoning by arsenic, or one scruple of the salt called "carbonate of ammonia" may be taken, and is a very good emetic. The next thing is to keep off the stupor as much as possible ; this is done by making the patient walk about the room, and allowing no sitting down : if the stupor be too deep for walking, two strong men must literally drag the patient round and round the room, so that no repose whatever can take place. Cold water should also be assiduously dashed in the face, and the face and neck flapped suddenly with a wet napkin. This rouses the nervous energy ; the patient generally opens his eyes, and he is capable of replying to questions for the space of half a minute or more. The water may be again dashed upon his face and chest as often as he relapses. CHAP. VI. DOMESTIC MAJfAGEMENT OF THE SICK EOOM. 7305. In describing the management of the sick room every circumstance which can con- tribute to the comfort and convalescence, or when convalescence may not be possible, to the mitigation of the bodily sufferings of the sick, we have now to consider. These circumstances we shall place under three heads ; 1. regarding those of the patient's room and its furniture ; 2. of the qualifications of sick nurses ; and, 3. of the course they should pursue when attending patients afflicted with severe and tedious, or with mortal, diseases, such as consumption and palsy. Sect. I. OF THE SICK CHAMBER AND ITS FURNITCRE, 7306. Rooms for the sick, wherever choice can be exercised, should be of considerable size, lofty, having open fireplaces ; and for some cases of disease, a northern aspect. 7307. Well-ventilated rooms are, in all cases of illness, indispensable; yet ventilation should be so regulated that no current of air should pass immediately over the patient's bed or chair. It may always be supposed that draughts of air prevail in the direction of the fireplace, from any window or door ; and hence, in such situations, the invalid should not be permitted either to lie or sit. In few cases free circulation of air is of primary importance. A patient, in typhus fever, suffers seriously from an over-hcated room ; but when the heat is moderated by the admission of fresh air, will in a few hours oftea Diatcriiilly improve, .so great an effect does this single circumstance produce.