iChap. II. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. 737 ccrops ; and perhaps the best wheat of all is raised in Barhary and Egypt. The Sicilian is ;the finest in Europe : it is of two kinds ; one is a long grain, much larger than English, and iiis generally boiled whole, as a substitute for barley or rice ; the other is an oval soft wheat, vyielding a flour that is remarkably white, and employed only in making the best sort of thread, biscuits, pastry, &c.: but, from government restrictions, very little is exported. It is said that a very hard wheat is grown at Odessa that contains more sugar than the IFrench, and that the starch in it differs from that of ordinary wheat flour in being in tmore transparent grains, resembling gum, and absorbing less water : but a softer wheat : is grown at the same place. The wheat of the south of Europe and other warm climates aaboimds more in gluten than that of more northerly countries, and consequently is more rnutritious; it is also fitter for making maccaroni, and other preparations of flour where a ^glutinous quality is considered as an excellence. These wheats are of greater specific igravity, harder, and more diflicult to grind, than the wheat of England. Sir H. Davy makes the following comparison : — Middlesex Wheat. Siciliun Wheat. Barbnry Wheat. Starch . . '7 . . 7-5 . . 74 Analysis of Wheat quoted by Dr. Pereira :- Starch Gluten Sugar Gum Bran Water French Wheat. . 71-49 . . 10-96 . . 4-72 . . 3-32 . .' 10-00 '. Odessa Hard Wheat. . 56-5 . . 14-55 . . 8-48 . . 4-90 . . 2-30 . . 12 00 . Odessa Soft Wheat. . 62-00 . 12-00 . 7-56 . 5-80 . 1-20 . 10-00 4196. Wheat is liable to several diseases, which affect the flour made from it, and render it unfit for good t bread. Tlie principal of these are the blight, mildew, and smut, which are occasioned by microscopic fungi which sow themselves, and grow upou the stems and ears, destroying the nutritive principles, and in- ■ troducing matter of a deleterious kind. The farmer is at the utmost pains to keep away these intruders. 1 Wheat, as well as all kinds of corn, is also very liable to be injured by being stacked before it is quite dry ; in ' which case, it will heat and become musty in the ricks. In wet harvests, it is sometimes impossible to get it ■ sufficiently dried, and a great deal of corn is thus often spoiled. It is generally reckoned that the sweetest t bread is made from wheat threshed out before it is stacked, which, shows the importance of studying the best : modes of preserving it. SuBSECT. 2.—Barleii. . 4197. This grain is next in importance to wheat, and has -one advantage over it, that I it can be propagated through a greater range of climate, beariillg; heat, cold, and drought '■ better, growing upon lighter soil, and coming so quickly to maturity .that the short summers ' of northern countries, which are not sufficient to ripen wheat, are yet long enough to 5 bring barley to maturity. In Lapland it is sown and reaped within six weeks. In • Spain they have two crops in one year. Its native country is not known ; but it has been I cultivated from the earliest antiquity by the Egyptians. It was much in use among the 1 Romans, and formerly, also, as a bread corn in England, as it still is in Westmoreland, < Cumberland, Wales, and Scotland ; but in the south of Britain it is now chiefly raised t for malt. 4198. Botanists and agriculturists enumerate many species and varieties of barley; but I those chiefly cultivated in this country are, — 1. Spring or .summer barley, a,Jig.G\l. (^Hordeiimvulgarc), in which the grains are disposed Fig. 611. in two rows on the ear, one on each side, and its beard or awns standing erect. This is the species usually cultivated in the south- ern and eastern districts of England and Scotland : its husk is thin, and the grains large, which renders it favourable for malt- ing. 2. Winter barley, b,fig. 4. (^Hordeum hex- n.sticnn, Lin.) In this the grains are disposed apparently in six rows, but in fact the rows are only double, three of them springing from the same point. It is cultivated chiefly in the north of England and in Scotland, being much more hardy than spring barley, and ripening earlier : hence it is better adapted for cold and high situations, such as the Highlands and north of Scotland, where a variety of it is called bere, and in Aberdeen- shire bigg. Its grain is smaller and rind thicker than the spring barley, and it has less of the saccharine principle than those kinds of barley that grow under the influences 3 B