QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD. C3hap. III. 377 ^Siberia. From the branchiness of its horns, which are divided into nianj' round and liharp-pointed processes, the elegance of its form and movements, and the strength of its limbs, it may be regarded as one of the principal embellishments of the forest. This iunimal, the colour of which is a strong reddish brown, is supposed to have been iutro- iiiuced into England from France ; and the hunting of the stag was formerly a favourite jiliversion with royalty and the nobles ; but, being of a nature sometimes extremely fierce, ii t has latterly been made to give way to the fallow deer, much more gentle in its manners, »::nd more valuable as food. At present it is rarely to be found in England ; but in the [Highlands of Scotland it yet exists in its original wild state. A stag of five years old is '.laUed a hart; the females are termed hinds; and the young ones axa/awtis. This species s> considered by some as affording the most sapid venison ; but it is usually lean and aather tough. 1860. The fallow deer{C. Dama, Linn.) is smaller than the stag, and it has great elegance, lonnected with a much more tractable disposition. It abounds in almost all parts of ■'lurope, except in the cold regions of the north, where its place is supplied by the rein- ,ieer. It is said to have been first introduced into Scotland by King James I., out of Norway, nud afterwards placed in his chases of Enfield and Epping. It is scarcely seen in France nnd Germany, and has never been known to exist in America. In Spain these deer are \xtremely large ; and they are met with in Greece and China ; but in every country, xxcept our own, they are in a state of natural wildness. The fallow deer, so called from an early word, falow, to be pale, is the species gener- lllly seen in our parks, where they are confined j but some have kept them in a small aard with a shed, and fattened them in the same manner as cattle for their venison. There are several varieties, as the Spanish deer, the mottled deer, and the Virginian deer. I'he fallow deer is distinguished by having the horns dilated into a broad, flat, subdivided \spanse at the upper parts. The buck of the fallow deer may be killed at six years old, but is better at eight years !': age. The female, in general, being naturally more tender, and getting tough rather man mellowing by age, is sooner in perfection. 1861. The males of the Jeer tribe are in highest season from the middle of June to the lividdle of September, after which they become thin and exhausted. Buck venison is ^•eferred as the choicest meat, and the haunch as the finest joint. Does which have had 05 kid, or soon deprived of it, are in season from the middle of November to the middle I' February. Venison is more sapid than any butchers' meat, and is considered as eery digestible. Its grain resembles most that of mutton, but its taste is different. 1862. The roe deer (C Capreobis, Linn.) is the smallest of the deer tribes that are mtives of Eui'ope. It is generally of a reddish brown colour, and differs in character iKim the stag and fallow deer. Instead of herding together they go in separate families. is never tamed, and is to be found at present only in a few districts of the Highlands, eelighting in vales, as the fallow deer does in plains. Venison of the roe buck is excel- nnt when the animal is in good order, but otherwise it is but indifferent and lean : after fro years of age, that of the males is tough. 1863. The moose deer, or elk, of northem Europe and America {Cervus Alses, Linn.), 'fords a venison that is extremely.sweet and nourishing. The Indians say they can lavel three times farther after a meal of moose than of any other animal food. The nngue is excellent, and the nose is considered as the greatest delicacy in Canada. It is : -e largest of the deer tribe. 11864. The rein-deer constitutes the chief wealth of the Laplanders, and supports that nmple and harmless people with many of the chief conveniences of life. Its flesh is (ccellent. H8C.5. The horns of the deer tribe are of the nature of bone, containing a large quantity of gelatine, whicli my be extmcted by boiling, as is done in making hartshorn jelly ; and Ihcy differ in this respect from the »rn8 of the ox and sheep, which consist mostly of albumen, and can only be softened, but not dissolved, by mter. The horns of the deer are cast off annually ; a natural joint forming at their base, between them dd the bones of the skull, witli which they are connected. They are afterwards reproduced, and, while oung, are covered with a skiu, serving as a periosteum, w hich the animal rubs off when the new horns have Ixained their proper size. Sect. VI. 1 GOAT {Capra Hircus, Linn.). ' 11866. 77ie wild goat— the supposed original of our domestic species — inhabits the moun- I iiins of Persia and the Caucasus. In its domestic state it is found in almost every part I the world, bearing the extremes of heat and cold, but differing in form according to , rrcumstances. It is a hardy, active, and sprightly animal, possessed of more dexterity J lan the sheep. Unlike the sheep, the goat approaches man, is easily tamed and familiar- [ 'id, and is capable of a considerable degree of attachment; but he prefers a wandering