.Chap. II. CABINET-MAKER AND UPHOLSTERER. 179 V example, landscapes, are obviously so difi5cult from the nature of the process, that, success ■ being impossible, they had better never be attempted. For certain kinds of ornaments, nnarquetry has a pleasing effect. In fruit and flowers the art, as usually executed, appeai-s ^generally more curious than beautiful; and the expense is greater than it deserves. Some -specimens of the best French marquetry are valued as the furniture and style of a certain pperiod, and we believe that none executed in our shops at present comes quite up to i^them, although occasionally pretty specimens are produced. An extremely elegant kind of marquetry is sometimes seen, consisting of tolerably large rlfigures in satinwood having the internal lines drawn in umber, and the whole let into imahogany. In this art there is a considerable field for invention and improvement. 793. The staining of tvood for inlaying is effected as follows. A bright red stain is pro- Jduced by a strong infusion of Brazil wood in water impregnated with pearl- ash : a red less hbright is made by a solution of dragon's blood in spirits of wine ; and a pink colour by the IBrazU wood stain diluted: a yellow stain is made with the tincture of turmeric or French liberries: an orange with dragon's blood and turmeric. Blue is obtained by indigo, or by ;\a solution of copper in aqua fortis. Green is made by verdigris dissolved in vinegar. (Purple by a decoction of logwood and Brazil wood. Black, by brushing the wood tifirst with a solution of sulphate of iron, and then with an infusion of gall nuts. The woods to be stained must be white. 794. Buhl, or inlayingcabinet work with ornaments of brass or tortoise-shell, is said to have been the invention of a German of that name: or as it was first practised in a town of Germany so called. It consists of a complicated kind of light ornament let into gi-ooves of ebony or some dark wood. When tortoise-shell is used, it is usually laid upon a red ground, which appears through the trans- parent part of the shell. Sometimes the pattern in brass is let into a ground of tortoise-shell, and sometimes tortoise shell is let into brass : the figures of both are cut with a fine saw together, so that one fits into the other without any difiiculty. A good deal of buhl is imported on foreign furniture; but it is too expensive to be much practised in this country, although it is made occasionally to decorate small articles. Rosewood inlaid with buhl may be cleaned, when the brass has become dull, by rubbing it with tripoli or rotten stone and a very little sweet oil. 795. Mosaic work consists of an assemblage of little rectangular pieces of marble, precious stones, or glass, arranged so as to represent a picture when fixed upon a ground of stucco by means of a cement. Among the ancients, mosaic appears to have been confined to pavements for which it 4s admirably adapted : since, notwithstanding its being frequently trodden upon and ■cashed, it is not injured. Of modern mosaics, some of the most celebrated are the works of Joseph Pine, and the Chevalier Lanfranc, in the church of St. Peter, at Rome ; also some at Pisa, Florence, and other Italian cities. There is also some good mosaic in the chapel at Versailles. Extremely minute mosaics are sometimes brought from Italy. 796. The Pietra dura, brought from Florence, is a sort of mosaic-; but, instead of the stones bemg cut into little squares, they are cut into the foi-ms of the objects represented, like marquetry. We can say nothing for the beauty of the art ; for whatever ingenuity may be employed in it, the effect of imitation is very incomplete, at least in the subjects usually attempted. 797. Carving. In a great part of our best furniture there is more or less carving. The art of carving in wood is so ancient, that, probably, the first attempts at sculpture were m that material. Not long since, among the uncivilised South Sea Islanders, very curious specimens of carving on their canoes were seen, executed without the use of iron tools. We find carving in cedar mentioned among the arts of the Israelites ; and some of the earliest statues of the Greeks were in wood as well as marble. In modern times, carving in wood was practised to a great extent in Italy, Germany, and the Netherlands. In Germany, more than in any other country, a taste for sculpture in wood prevailed, which, indeed, partly exists at the present day. Not only are their churches richly decorated with exquisite carving to be scon in the pulpits, stalls, and confessionals, but the ancient chiitoaux of the nobility, and even the residences of the wealthy citizens, can boast ot fine specimens of wood carving. In Holland and ISclgium the same may bo observed I lie hncst examples of this art appear to have been executed between the twelfth and seventeenth centuries. In this country, it is evident, from our churches and mansions tiiat our ancestors endeavoured to keep pace with their continental neighliours in the arts oi sculpture in wood ; and down to a late period, admirable carvings of this kind were N 2