BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 638 bo pressRd tlirougli the bag, and tlie liquor obtained Is to be mixed with the original juice. The solid matter of tlie fruit is then worth very little, and may be thrown away. "i.iiicr In every live gallons of tlie liquor, consisting of the mixture of the original juice with the infusion twelve pounds of white sugar are to be dissolved perfectly. If the liquor be now left to itself, it will after some hours, show symptoms of a commencing fermentation. In proportion as the fruit is ripe, the temperature of the weatlier ought to lie high. Should it be very cool weather, the liquor should be placed near the Qre If the gooseberries were unripe, or just ripening, the fermentation will take place at a lower temperature and with more activity. ' The progress of the fermentation should be frequently ascertained by tasting the liquid it becoming con- tinually loss sweet until at length the sweetness totally disappears ; at tills period the fermentation is complete When the fruit has been over ripe, or when the weather is remarkably cool, the last portions of sugar remain a long time unaltered, and the fermentation is suspended. Placing the containing vessel near the fire will always renew the fermentation ; so long as this degree of heat is kept up the fermentation will proceed. When the quantity of wine under fermentation is very considerable, it will generally keep up its own temperature. Should the season be so warm, and the fermentation so rapid as to excite fears of souring, which, however, cm never happen while the quantity is so small as ten or twenty gallons in each fermenting tub, we can readily avert the danger by racking ofTlrom the lees, having first skimmed off the head of yeast. When the fermentation has totally ceased, the wine is to be racked off as clear as it can be procured. To every five gallons of it two quarts of brandy or good old malt spirit are to be added, well mixed and left to settle ; for tlie spirit causes a separation of Hocks which previously had been in solution. After subsidence for perhaps a month, the clear liquor is to be cautiously drawn off, introduced into a cask which it just fills, and set by in a cool cellar for a great length of time. It is seldom th.-it the impatience and curiosity of inexperienced makers of domestic vines for family use can brook the delay of keeping the wine long enough to mellow sufficiently. The wine just described will require five years at least to be in its best condition, and must have been kept in wood all that time; it may then be bottled. A much shorter time will, however, render it tolerable." SuBSECT. 5. — Currant Wine. 3581. Three varieties of currants are employed in making wine, white, red, and black ; but the two first are most common. The wines from the white and red sorts differ a little from each other in colour, and also in flavour. With proper management, they are capable of producing a wine analogous to the lighter wines of the grape, according to Dr. MaccuUoch, " not easily to be distinguished from the Colares of Portugal, which, although not in the first class, is certainly superior to most of our domestic wines." A principal defect in currant wine, as commonly made, arises from too small a quantity of the fruit being used, and of course too much sugar and water. On tliis account, and from the im- perfect fermentation, these wines are usually too sweet, and from a natural bad flavour in the husks, which are often kept in the must, a mawkish taste is induced. By increasing the quantity of fruit, which is generally used only in the same proportion as in gooseberry wine, and avoiding the use of the husks, the flavour and quality of the wine are materially improved. At present, only sweet wines are generally made from currants ; but dry wines may also be fabricated from this fruit by the methods already pointed out; for these the fruit should be ripe. Brisk wine may also be made, and then a proportion of unripe fruit should be intro- duced. The use of tartar, likewise. Dr. MaccuUoch is of opinion, would be advantageous, and would correct a defect not uncommon, that of having an ammoniacal taste. Another improvement has been put in practice with success, not only in making cuiTant wine, but in all those wines produced from fruits of which the flavour is either bad, or which have little or no flavour; this is hy boiling </iey>?«<j'M(ce previously to fermentation. From this treatment many tasteless fruits acquire a flavour, and many bad flavours are converted into agreeable ones. This is particularly remarkable in the case of the black currant, which, though harsh in its natural state, acquires by boiling a powerftd, and to most persons, an agreeable flavour. Wine made from tliis fruit in the raw state has no particular property, whereas that of the boiled may be, by careful management, brought to resemble some of the best of the .sweet Cape wines. The boiling must not be too long continued, as this degree of heat tends to coagulate and precipitate the ferment, and thus render it inefi^ective. Some artificial ferment is generally necessary with boiled juice. Great care must be taken in separating the stalks; and if the skins and solid matter are fermented in the vat, they must not at all events be introduced into the casks. Many persons put the pure juice into the casks at once, strained, without any previous ferment- ation in the vat. Iteceiptfor white currant wine Bruise forty pounds of fruit in a tub of the capacity of fifteen or twenty g.illon8, and add to it four gallons of water. Stir the whole well, and squeeze till the pulp is thdroughly separated from the skins. Leave these materials at rest for about twelve hours, and then strain them through .1 canvas bag or fine hair sieve, .ind pass one gallon of fresh water through the marc. Dissolve thirty or twenty-five pounds of white sugar in the juice tliiis obtained, and make up the whole qn.mtity by an addition often gallons and a half of water. The proportion of sug.ir here given is for a brisk wine ; if a sweet wine is required, there must be forty pounds of sugar. White sugar is recommended as much the best; if moist sugar be used, somewhat more will be necessary. The must being now prepared, the fermentation and sub- sequent treatment must be exactly the same as for gooseberry wine, and the reader may therefore refer to "'?f brandy is to be added. It should be added towards the end of the fermentation in the cask. For the above qu.intity, some will put in a quart of brandy alone ; others first mix it with honey. , , . Whether the wine should be racked oirfrom the ley at the end of six months, rut into a fresh ca.«k for six months longer before It is bottled, or be fluffered to remain the whole time in the lees, must depend upon the state of the wlno, according to the principles explained above. The bottling should be carcftilly attended to.