Chap. IV. LAMPS. 149 693. All invention, hoivever, made 1780 by M. Aigand, a. native of Geneva, by which the smoke of lamps is entirely consumed, at the same time that the brilliancy of the light is greatly increased, even with economy, brought this instrument again into general use, and made it a successful rival to the best wax candles. The numerous advantages of the Argand lamp are not confined to affording a very brilliant and economical light, but it extends its usefulness in producing a convenient ani great degree of heat for the chemist, which renders it one of the greatest improvements in the useful arts. Argand, reflecting upon the cause of the imperfect combustion in the interior of the flame of a candle or lamp, and correctly supposing that it was for want of the access of oxygen, conceived the idea of admitting air into the centre of the flame. To accomplish this, he made the wick in the form of a hollow cylinder instead of a solid one as before, and he contrived that a current of air should pass up through this hollow cylinder where the wick was burning, thus admitting air into the middle of the flame. This was found to succeed perfectly on trial: the combustion was more complete, the smoke was diminished, and the brilliancy of the light increased. But to improve the efl'ect still further, he also added a glass cylinder or chimney, open at bottom, surrounding the flame at a smaU distance, by which another current of air was made to pass upwards on the exterior part of the flame and between it and the glass. Thus every part of the thin circular flame is between two currents of air, which supply the combustion with oxygen so mijch as to create a heat that is sufficient to consume the smoke and convert it into heat and light. This is the simple principle of the lamp invented by Argand : and it wUl be easily understood by examining fiij. 121., where the dark circle in the centre of A, the place of the burner, represents the interior of the hollow cylinder through which the air ascends. The thin dark line outside being the wick itself, and the double external line being the glass. B represents a view of the burner with the wick : and the arrows show the direction of the current of air between the wick and the glass. A few improvements have been made upon the original con- struction. The glass chimney does more than cause a current on the outside of the flame: it considerably increases that in the inside of the circular wicli also : without the glass there would be a current, but it would be weak. It is of consequence to regulate the quantity of air admitted to the flame : too much air will diminish the temperature so much as to impede the desired effects, and too little will leave the combustion languid. In the common lamp the wick is fed with oil by capillary attraction, the surface of the oil being below the level of the flame ; but in the Argand lamp, the reservoir of oil is kept above the level of the flame. Fig, 122. represents the general appearance of an Argand lamp, such as is used for reading or simihir purposes, a is the reservoir for the oil: b is the cistern supplied from the reservoir, and from which the oil flows to the burner, c, through the branch d. Fig. 123. is a section of the reservoir on a larger scale : together with the tubes of the burner. The vase e, which holds the oil, terminates below in a hollow neck /; which screws into the cistern g. This neck has a circular hole in the side, which can be closed, when required, by a sliding piece of brass h, moveable by a handle i. To fill the reservoir with oil, it is unscrewed and laid on its side; and the oil is poured in through the circular hole in the neck. When enough oil is put in, this hole is covered by drawing up the short tube h over it by means of the handle i, the reservoir is then screwed into its place, and the hole is opened by pushing down the handle i; the oil then coming out through the cistern from which it passes through the branch li, the supply the burner. The burner part A consists of two tubes, / I and m m, one within the other, the space between to hold the oil coming from the branch /(, being closed at bottom n n, but open at top. The circular wick n, expressed by the dotted line, is kept in the oil in this space between the t« o tubes by drawing it on a short cylinder of brass o o, that slides upon the inner tube "i in. At first this wick was raised and lowered by means of a ack and pinion ; but now a much neater method is employed ; a spiral groove is cut on ;ie outside of the tube m m, in which a pin on the inside of the short tube o <> works, and auscs it to rise or fall when it is carried round : the motion of the tube o o is effected in n ingenious manner by means of the shelf which carries the chimney glass. The lower L 3 Ft/;. 121.