Book X. 776 ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. until the whole is dissolved. If seasoning of roots or herbs is required they may be added. Boil an onion, with or without a bit of parsley and sweet herbs, and a few corns of allspice, or other spice, in the water you melt the soup in, which may be fla- voured with mushroom catsup, essence of sweet herbs, or of celery, or anything else that is customary. As this portable soup is easily made and is not only convenient in a family, but economical, since no more need be dissolved than is wanted, it is recommended that it be made at home, as affording the only certainty of the goodness of the materials ; it may thus be made for less than half the price of that at which it is sold. 4435. A preparation is made in France called " Gelatine brut fin," horn bones; the ends being cutoff nnd the bones cut down the middle to remove the fat, they are steeped in diluted muriatic acid for about ten days, which dissolves tlie solid part and leaves the gelatine. The acid being poured off, they are soaked al'resh In weak acid for a day and a night, and then steeped in water some hours, renewing it five or six times until all the acid is washed out, and finally they are steeped in a very weak solution of sub-carbonate of soda to neutralise what acid may yet remain. 100 lbs. of bones yield about 25 lbs. of gelatine. The gelatine is then dried and cut in the form of dice, and is used for making soup, for which it keeps better than the cakes of portable soup. This kind of prepared gelatine is made in England, and may be had in the London shops ; but we wish our readers to observe, that we merely mention the fact, without recommending the sub- stance. Sect. IL preservation of food by cold. 4436. If animal and vegetable substances be exposed to a degree of cold below the freezing point of water, the juices are congealed and converted into ice, and during this state they cannot undergo any change whatever; hence freezing becomes a very simple and effectual mode of preserving food in many cases. The inhabitants of northern countries are thus enabled to lay up a sufficient store of provisions for their winter con- sumption, and to receive supplies from a great distance. Meat frozen at Archangel is sent to Petersburgh and Moscow; and the markets of these places present the extraor- dinary appearance of immense numbers of hogs, sheep, fish, &c., built up in stacks, in a complete state of rigidity, and as firm as so many statues or stuffed figures. About the end of October, the Russians pack their meat in tubs, with layers of snow between, and pre- serve it in this way, using it afterwards as occasion requires. Veal frozen in this manner, and sent from a distance, is esteemed the finest they have in Petersburgh; and when properly thawed, it is said that it cannot be distinguished from that which has been recently killed, being equally juicy. The same practice is followed in Canada, Hudson's Bay, and in all countries where the frost is sufficiently steady. All that is necessary is to hang it out of doors till it be frozen as hard as a board. 4437. But the most extraordinary proof of the power of extreme cold in preserving animal bodies is in the account given by Pallas of a species of elephant discovered in a frozen state in a mass of ice that was driven on sliore on the coast of Siberia, about thirty-flve years ago, and which is supposed to have been preserved in that state as long since as the time of the Mosaic deluge ; and yet so fresh was the flesh when the animal l^ell out of the ice-berg, that it was fed upon by the bears of the country. The skeleton and great part of the sliin, is now to be seen entire in the Museum of Petersburgh. The proofs of the great antiquity of this carcase depend upon geological reasoning, which we cannot here en^er into ; but whatever differ- ence of opinion there may be with respect to its exact age, all agree that it must have been at least thousands of years old, since the climate of Siberia has long been sucli that no elephants could live there ; nor could the carcase have floated from a warm climate, since it must have undergone decomposition during its passage. We can put no limit, therefore, to the period during which organic substances may be preser^'ed when inclosed in ice. 4438, In our variable climate, this mode of preserving butcher's meat is not so applicable; but ice is employed with great advantage in the transportation of fish to London. Salmon is brought by this means to the metropolis from all the northern rivers that flow to the eastern coasts of Britain. The practice is said to have been first recommended by a public-spirited gentleman in Scotland, Mr. Dempster of Dunichar. Every salmon fishery is now provided with an ice house, and a stock of ice is laid in during the winter; the salmon are packed in large oblong wooden boxes, with pounded ice interposed between them ; and in this manner they are conveyed to the London markets, as fresh as when they were taken out of the water, but it is to be observed that they are not actually frozen. Almost all fishmongers have either ice-houses or ice-cellars for the preservation of their fish in tubs of ice. But whenever meat, fish, or vegetables are frozen, it is of the utmost importance to attend to the manner in which heat is subsequently restored; if thawed too rapidly, by putting them before the fire, or into iiot water, putrefaction is soon induced ; and though it may be cooked before that time, yet the flavour is destroyed, and it becomes hard. It is necessary, in order to have the frozen substances unimpaired, to thaw them by immersion in cold water. A crust of ice will then be seen gathering round them on the water, owing to their abstraction of heat from that fluid. 4439. But although meat and fish are perfectly preserved by ice, it is doubtful whether the flavour does not suffer in some degree, at least in this country. Some are of opinion that when they have once been frozen, they never completely regain their fine flavour.