BEVEKAGES USED IN THE BllITISH ISLES. Book VIII. COG naturally existed in it first rises as steam ; and being condensed in the worm, falls into tlie receiving vessel, drop bj' drop. But when, by the continuance of the heat, the vessel becomes red-hot, the wood begins to be decomposed, and some of its oxygen and hydrogen unite together, and compose water, which likewise comes over. This water soon begins to taste acid, which demonstrates a commencement of the formation of vinegar by part of the carbon also separating, which, joined to the oxygen and hydrogen, compose that acid. The acetic acid, however, does not in this manner come over quite pure; for it is mixed with a considerable quantity of a dark-coloui'ed oil or tar, which becomes thicker as the process goes on, and which is another product of the decomposition of the wood ; this partly floats, and partly sinks in the liquor. Together with these, carburetted hydrogen, or inflammable gas, and some other gases, are generated abundantly. The acidity of the liquor continues to increase, but is somewhat disguised by the strong taste and odour of the tar, which gives it a reddish-brown colour. The whole of what then comes over, water, acetic acid, and tar, is called in commerce rough or crude pyroligneous acid, or the acid of wood, which received this name from its being supposed to be a peculiar acid ; but chemists have since found that, when purified, it is actually acetic acid. The carbon that does not come over remains m the still in the state of charcoal, pre- serving the form of the wood first put in. The wood employed must not be of the resinous kinds ; but any refuse spray of other species will do ; the densest wood is the best. In the late improvements in the process, the water of the wood is dissipated by heat in the forest where it is cut, before it is put into the retort, and other improvements are made in the apparatus which it is not necessary for our purpose to specify. The crude pyroligneous acid is rectified by a second distillation, by which much viscid tarry matter is left in the still, and it is now a transparent browu vinegar, but having a strong smoky flavour, from a slight admixture of empyreumatic oil. 3758. A very pure vinegar is obtained by saturating the rectified pyroligneous acid by quicklime, evaporating the acetate of lime thus formed to dryness, and destroying the empj^- reumatic matter by gentle torrefaction, which leaves the acetate of lime pure : the lime is now removed by adding sulphuric acid, which attracts the lime more strongly than the acetic acid, forming sulphate of lime ; and in this manner this latter acid is procured similar to that which is prepared by the acetous fermentation already described. "WTien well prepared it has no peculiar taste nor smell; it contains no vegetable gluten nor muci- lage, &c., and is therefore purer than the vinegar from malt, sugar, fruit, or wine. It succeeds well as a pickling vinegar, because it may be concentrated to any degree of strength. At Beaufoy & Co's., Lambeth, there is a manufactory of wood vinegar on a large scale, where it is prepared quite colourless, and of such strength that when diluted with seven times its weight of water, it makes the distilled vinegar at present employed by the apothecaries, and is used by some as the best pickling vinegar. 3759. The Pyroligneous acid which comes over first, in its unpurified state, possesses the remarkable property of preventing the putrefaction of animal substances; it is well known that meat that has been smoked keeps better than that which was dried without smoke ; and it is now ascertained that this effect depends upon the pyroligneous acid that rises with the smoke of the wood or turf which are employed in smoking it. This sub- ject will be considered when treating on the " Preservation of Food." 3760. A peculiar liquid called wood spirit, or pyroxylic spirit, is procured in the second distillation of the pyroligneous aoid, for the purpose of obtaining the pure vinegar from it. This wood spirit considerably resembles ether, but diifers from it. Like ether it dissolves Indian rubber, and is used in making the waterproof cloth; it also dissolves resins, and, being cheaper than alcohol, is employed in the manufacture of waterproof hats. It is colourless, and highly inflammable, so as to be employed in lamps instead of spirit of wine. It was discovered by Mr. P. Taylor in 1812, and is manufactured by Messrs. Turubull and Ramsay of Glasgow, SuBSECT. 7.—Adulteration of Vinegar. 3761. Vinegar, like most manufactured articles of food ami drink, is frequently adulte- rated. One of the mnst frequent sopliistirations is the addition of some cheaper acid to increase tlie strength of ''•irl^''"v tl,e mtrate of barvtes, or even by the acetate of lead^ ear , of w I'h w 11 om. ion a white precipitate, if the vineRar contains this acid. To detect nitric ac.d, pmir rii tlo of l ie vh Bar i^^^^^ and " I''" '""'I" '"^ """-latic acid ; then put a finall piece of gold Lif nto l e .nixture and f nitric aci.I l.c present, the nold loaf will bo dissolved; the nason of which s hat Kold 8 o. Iv sol.ihie in tl e nitro-muriatic aci.l; but by the addition of muriatic to the niiric m he vinegar M,U' - m? i^tic s pro It must be observed, however, that tl... manufacturer is allowed by law to mMto s"^ :i7i;:) I hirem- is rr, „uni/l,/ wade (if loo lilllf Urnifilh, find to conceal this, acrid subsla ices are art led. .is Vlm^Mo^mliulv^i^X^A pellitory of Spain. 'J'o detect these, mix some of the suspected vinegar with car-