Book XXV. THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 1176 mud of water for worms, insects, and vermin, such as slugs, frogs, &c.; in short, scarcely anything comes amiss to their voracious appetites. As they do not scratch up the soil they may be sent into the garden, when the dew is on the gi-ound in the morning- and evening, to pick up the slugs and snails, which they will do without injuring the borders. 6966. Ducks begin to lay in February, or even earlier, and will sometimes lay as many as fifty or more eggs, if these are taken from them before they show a disposition to hatch. They are very apt to lay away from home, and require careful watching; nor are they so easily brought to lay in their proper nests as common fowls. To prevent their wandering it will be proper to feed them in the laying season in a particular place three or four times a day, observing that the better they are fed the more they will lay, provided they are not made too fat. 6967. Ducks, when domesticated, are not so well disposed to hatch as hens, and there is sometimes a little trouble in getting them to sit; when they do, they must have their food placed near, otherwise they are apt to neglect their eggs, and as soon as the young ones are hatched, which is generally in about thirty days, the mother takes them to the water, where they dabble before they have acquired sufficient strength, and often perish if the weather be cold. On this account it is a common practice to have ducks' eggs hatched by common fowls, which show more assiduity and patience in sitting. As these mothers have no propensity to go to the water, the young breed gets a little hardy before they are iillowed to talte to it. But such is their natural instinct that, although not taught to do so by the nurse, no sooner do they see a piece of water than they plunge into it, to the great alarm of their foster mother, who cannot follow them, and whose warning and auxiety they disregard. This exhibition of natural feeling is so painful to some persons that they object to have young ducks hatched except by their own species. From eight to ten eggs is the utmost that the ducks can cover. Light-coloured ducks produce white eggs which are not easily distinguished from those of the hen, but the eggs of dark ducks are of a blueish-green colour. K sitting ducks are given eggs not of their own colour they will sometimes turn them out of the nest. 6968. Young ducklings are hardy and need not be taken from the mother; it is best to secure both under a coop for eight or ten days, to strengthen them before they take to the water. Their food for the first few days may be bread soaked in milk, and then they may have a paste of meal of any kind with nettle leaves boiled and chopped. When they have a little more strength, a mash of bran soaked in water with barlej', acorns, or potatoes boiled, together with potherbs may be given, and a little fish may be added to this. From the most tender age ducklings exhibit great voracity, and eat almost any food that is given to them. They should likewise have a pan of water to dabble in. As one of the natural habits of the duck is to sift its food out of water, it is a good mode of feeding young ducklings to throw some oats or other grain into a shallow vessel of water, and to allow them to gather it up, which they appear to take more pleasure in than if it is given to them dry. 6969. To fatten ducks the same principle must be followed as in other poultry ; they must be regularly fed with the best food, and kept quiet. As they are greedy, but not nice feeders, various kinds of food are employed ; boiled potatoes mixed with oatmeal, or bruised oats- is found economical and effectual; barley should not be given, as it is said to destroy their flavour. Acorns, when they can be had, are a favourite food with them, and very fattening: malt is likewise highly recommended. M''hen fattened on animal substances, which are very expeditious in accomplishing the business, some are of opinion that the flesh is not so delicate, somewhat resembling that of the wild duck. Sect. V. PIGEON HOUSE AND PIGEONS. 6970. The pigeon-house, or dove-cot, is not so much a favourite appendage to a mansion as formerly, perhaps from the destruction by these birds of the neighbouring crops; but on a small scale, or when they are well fed in the house, this objection may disappear. Some account of the various species of pigeons, and of their qualities as food, will be found in Book VII. Chap. V., to which we refer the reader. We shall here consider the method of breeding them, and their management in the dove-cot. 6971. The common domestic or house pigeon runs also into several varieties, commonly called fancy pigeons, which are kept for sale by persons who breed them for purposes of amusement only. . Of these the carrier is perhaps the most remarkable. Though removed from their homes to a considerable distance in covered baskets, yet, when let loose, they will find their way back with unerring instinct. This faculty is well known to be employed for various purposes, as for conveying intelligence in a rapid manner, and even for stock- iobbing purposes. The pouter forms another variety, distinguished by their large dis- tended crop and grotesque attitudes : it is the tamest and most famiUar of them aU. The