210 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book \ it in domestic economy, is for matches, which are made by dipping slips of wood in melted sulphur. The sufl'ocating property of a brimstone match is well known; but tlie explanation of it is not so, generally. When heat is applied to sulphur, it intlames, and combines witii the oxygen of the atmospliere, forming an acid gas, called sulphureous acid qas; this is the fume which rises from a brimstone match, and which has a sharp suffo- cating smell. When this gas or vapour comes in contact with water, the latter absorbs it to a considerable extent, and when the water is saturated with it, it makes sulphuric acid, or oil of vitriol, a strong acid which lias more oxygen than the sulphureous acid. The common roll sulphur does not differ essentially (being only less pure) from flowers of sulphur, used as a medicine. Sulphur is one of the simple bodies or elements, and is, therefore, incapable of alteration, although it may combine with other bodies, and thus form new compounds. It is common for those unacquainted with a little chemistry, to call by the name of sulphur, and sulphureous, a multitude of things which have no "connection with it; as, for instance, the fumes of burning charcoal ; and this leads to absurd reasoning, and to tlie wrong application of terms. Among the familiar uses of sulphur, we may mention the property which its fumes have of bleaching straw bonnets ; and it is likewise employed by the cooper. (See " Wine.") CHAP. IV. GLLDING. 98G. Some knowledge of the nature of this kind of ornamental work, and the process employed in producing it, is necessaiy, with a view to preserve it in a proper manner and to prevent its being damaged by wrong treatment. 987. Gilding, in general, may be described as the art of covering certain substances wit gold, either in very thin leaves, in powder, or in amalgam by quicksilver, according the material to which it is applied, and to the object in view. Wood, leather, paper, an similar substances, are gilt by fastening on leaves of gold by means of some cement: b metals are gilt cliiefly by a chemical process, called amalgamation ; or, as has lately be discovered, by the action of galvanism. Gilding on wood is the most general, being us for various mouldings and ornaments in apartments, and on articles of furniture, as chai picture frames, &c. 988. Gold has not only the advantage of a rich colour and splendid lustre, but also that unalterabilibj in the air, retaining its metallic appearance and beauty in aU weathers, and for an indefinite length of time, which is owing to its property of not rusting or oxidating by the ordinary causes. Its great value and ductility led the ancients, as well as the moderns, to extend it into very thin leaves, for the purpose of appl3'ing it to the surfaces of other bodies, so as to imitate the solid metal ; and it is astonishing to wliat a degree of thinness gold is extended by the gold beater. 989. The gold for this purpose must be very pure, and it is hammered out, or beat, after it has been rolled as thin as paper, by being put between the leaves of a book of parchment and extremely thin skins, called gold beaters' skin ; the book is then laid upon a block of marble, and beat with a heavy hammer. When the leaves of gold are extended to the full size of the book, they ai-e divided, and each portion is placed between the leaves of another book which is hammered as before. This process is continued till the requisite thinness is acquired. The thinness of gold leaf is quite surprising; it has been calcu- lated that it does not exceed the 5^^3:15 part of an inch. 990. 77(6 sort of gilding on mood, called oil gold, cannot be burnished, and is always of the natural colour of unwrought gold. It has the advantage that it may be washed and cleaned with water, which burnished gold never can. It is often used for picture frames, parts of furniture, and mouldings of apartments; as it stands the weather, it is also em- ployed for out-door work. To gild in oil, the wood, after being properly smoothed, is covered with a coat of what is termed gold size, made of drying linseed oil, mixed with yellow ochre. When this has become so dry as to adhere to the fingers without soiling them, or is fac/iy, as the gilder expresses it, the gold leaf is laid on with great care and dexterity, and pressed down with some cotton wool. Any places that have been missed are covered with small pieces of gold leaf, and when the whole is quite dry, the ragged bits are rubbed off with the cotton. This is by ftir the easiest mode of gilding ; any other metallic leaves may be applied in a similar manner. Pale leaf gold has a greenish yellow colour, and is an alloy of gold with silver. Dutch gold, which is brought from Holland, is in fact only copper leaf coloured yellow by the fumes of zinc. It is much cheaper than true gold leaf, and is very useful where large quantities of gilding are wanted in places where it can be defended 'from the weather, by being covered with varnish; but it changes colour if exposed to moisture. It is only a cheap substitute for true