216 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. that of the architecture of the period, the mouldings and ornaments being derived from that art. Thus, wlien Gothic architecture was prevalent here, the furniture was decorated with ornaments to be found in Gothic buildings; on the revival of Grecian architecture in Europe, the furniture partook of the change ; it was then allied to the meretricious and mixed style above mentioned, from which was borrowed the twisted column, and the fan- ciful but rich carvings of foliage with grotesque animals, copied partly from the antique, partly from modern Italian, and partly from the Gothic. Though there scarcely e.vists at this time any English furniture of the time of Henry VIII., yet on the Continent there is abundance of the age of Francis I. of France, who was his cotemporary ; and it is fre- quently remarkable for its quaint carvings in oak, often displaying much taste and bold- ness of execution. 1017. In the succeeding periods, down to the time of Queen Elizabeth, the fashion of furniture was nearly of the kind above described. Elizabeth was herself fond of gorgeous and magnificent display, with little of good taste. There are but few remains of the actual furniture used in England at this time: some genuine examples, however, have been engraved and published by Shaw and othei; antiquaries. But it is not easy to ascertain accurately the dates of what has been so preserved; and much of it was brought from Holland, Flanders, Germany, and other parts of Europe. What was made in those coun- tries which produced so many able painters in the Netherlands, was superior to what our artificers could supply at a time when the fine arts were in a very low state in Eng- land. 1018. Of ancient English bedsteads of the time of Queen Elizabeth, or the few succeed- ing reigns, a few remain. (One is represented among our wood-cuts of furniture.) Occa- sionally some bedsteads in the same style are now imported from the Continent, to supply the fashionable demand for this species of fumiture. They are massive, but clumsy, though generally enriched with much carving in oak : in the most superb, the bed-posts are very highly ornamented. The head board extends to the canopy, and, together with the latter, is covered with carved work: in some there were secret places for concealing money and other treasures. The bed frame was low, and the curtains and valances usually of thick stuffs ; the whole, with the ornaments, causing a great collection of dust, that disagrees extremely with our present ideas of comfort and cleanliness. It would be carry- ing the love of ancient things too far to bring such again into general use: and examples of them are valuable chiefly as elucidating the history of ancient manners. 1019. If we are to understand by the term " Elizabethan style," so much used at present, the style of architecture and furniture executed in this country during the reign of Queen Elizabeth, we perceive, from what remains to us of that period, that it consisted chiefly of the rude and incongruous mixture we have mentioned: and this is not, as we have shown, peculiar to England, but is to be seen, somewhat modified, in works of the same date in Italy, France, Germany, and the Low Countries. The practice of Gothic architecture as well as the revival of the antique, preserved a taste for ornamental sculpture, which was more or less diffused amongst our artificers; and we find in the domestic edifices of that time, even of the inferior kind, as, for example, in the gables, doors, and windows of the timbered houses, ornaments carved in wood, in which are evident traces of the Gothic : in mansions of importance, as in manor houses, there are attempts to imitate the then newly-introduced Roman architecture borrowed from Italian architects, by whom it had been corrupted and debased. Yet, notwithstanding the general bad taste of the style, parts had evidently been designed originally by men of talent; and a certain spirit and beauty of line is infused in the ornamental parts, which can never be expected except from those who learn to draw and compose; thus we see a strange mixture and contrast between the powers of the artist and the absurdity of the prevailing taste and fashion. 1020. The desire of discovering something national to which great merit can be attached, we have reason to think, has induced many of our architects and amateurs of the present day to assign qualities to the architectural productions of Queen Elizabeth's time, not dis- coverable by those untinctured with this feeling ; and admitting, as we do, that the vestiges of good art are often discoverable in them, the style is, after all, more interesting on account of its historical associations, than deserving of imitation or adoption as national: and we should no more wish to see Elizabethan architecture or furniture perpetuated, than Elizabethan costume in dress, 1021. We have observed that some difibrencc of design is observable in the old furniture of different countries of Europe corresponding to that of their architecture. Thus the articles originally brought from China and Japan arc remarkable for their peculiar paintings, varnishes, and gilding. The ancient furniture of Italy will be found by those wlio pay much attention to this subject to vary from that of Flanders and Germany. The Italian cabinets, particularly those of Florence, are often distinguished by their being ornamented with what is termed Pietra dura, which consists of the figures of fruit, flowers, butterflies, and similar objects, formed of coloured marbles inlaid, of which there is a manufactory at Florence "belonging to the Grand Duke of Tuscany. The Spanish and