967 WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. I Chap. H. ; tion, each loom requiring two persons, and, for superior kinds, four. These shawls are i usually of three sizes; two of which, the long and the small square, are in common use 1 in India ; the other, long and very narrow, with a large mixture of black in it, is worn as ia girdle by the Asiatics. The manufacture of shawls in Cashmere has decreased of late, ^win<' to the decline of the Persian and Mogul empires. During the existence of the 1 latter there were 40,000 shawl looms in Cashmere ; at present there are not above 116,000; there are still 60,000 persons employed in weaving them. But it appears that in t the romantic Cashmere itself, not more than 80,000 shawls are manufactured in a year ; : and from the prodigious number of so-called Cashmeres sold in Europe, they must mul- t tiply themselves in an extraordinary manner on their way from that country. Great pains have been taken to introduce the shawl-goat into France, and with con- isiderable success. M. Joubert found them spread from Cashmere to the Ural Mountains, ■ and he purchased them in Bucharia and Independent Tartary, from which he transported t them to the Crimea in 1819, and thence by sea to Marseilles. Though many died on the ' voyage, four hundred arrived in France safe. It is proper to state that it was M. Ter- 1 naux who planned the importation and furnished the funds for executing it at his own t expense and responsibility. The goats have thriven and propagated in France, and ; shawls have been manufactured from them equal to those of Cashmere. The wool is : also brought to Europe from Cashmere by way of Casan, the capital of a Russian I province on the Volga; it is spun and woven in France, either mixed with silk or ■ without. At first they succeeded in imitating the real Cashmere shawl only on one side; I but they are now able to imitate perfectly the texture of the true oriental fabric. Women : are employed in weaving the French Cashmere, and it requires the work of four hundred I days by a woman and two apprentices to complete one. Various other shawls are like- wise made of mixtures of the Cashmere wool with silk, extremely beautiful, and nearly ■ equal to the oriental. The best are made in Lyons, and some inferior at Nismes. The extraordinary passion of the French ladies for these shawls is well known. Four Cashmere goats were introduced into Essex, by Mr. Towers, of Weald Hall, in 1828, and had increased in 1833 to fifty; they thrive very well, feeding like sheep, but chiefly on furze, and their wool has been manufactured in England: but it is not probable, from the small quantity produced by each goat, that the manufacture will be profitable in this country. Cashmere wool is also brought here by our East India shipping, and sent to France to be spun into yarn for the weaver ; some also has been spun here by machinery. Lately a breed has been produced in France between the Angora goat and the Cashmere, which promises great success; producing a considerable quantity of wool, long, fine, and glossy, combining the softness of Cashmere with the lustre of sUk, being the most beautiful filaceous material known, and in every respect fitted for the purposes of shawl- weaving. Some of these goats yield thirty ounces of fine wool in one season. A few of these have lately been brought to England. 5694. Excellent imitations of Cashmere shawls are now manufactured in this country, of the finest Saxon wool; particularly by Messrs. Frost, Nelson, and Co., at Leeds ; the fringed borders are made in London and in Scotland, and are sewed on. !)69.5. Shaivls of a cheaper kind of great variety are likewise made in various parts of Britain, particularly at Huddersfield, Norwich, Paisley, &c.; in the latter place they are manufactured of very elegant patterns. From their convenience, they are now worn by all classes; and the cheapest kinds are too well known to require description. .5696. The manufacture of worsted stuff's was first introduced into England in the reign of Henry I., by some Dutchmen who had been driven from Holland by an inundation of the sea. They settled at Worsted, in Norfolk, whence the name; and a charter was granted for the manufacture of worsted stuffs, in consequence of which that city became one of the most flourishing in the kingdom, and there these stuffs were long made in the greatest perfection. At Leeds are sold a large quantity of worsted stuffs at prices thu-ty per cent, cheaper than they were twelve or fourteen years ago, owing to the use of machinei-y and the low price of British wool. The worsted is chiefly spun and woven at and near Bradford, and in Lanca.shire ; the finishing and dyeing are performed at Leeds. It is said that in the West Riding of Yorkshire 40,000 pieces of stuff are made per week. Perhaps the most considerable .stuff manufactory in the kingdom is at Burlcy Mill, two miles west of Leeds: in this there are four hundred power-looms, which weave six thousand yards a day ; and it is reckoned that twenty times as much more is made by hand-looms in the adjacent country. . For carpets, see " Furniture," Book V. Chap. X. Sect. III. .5697. Fleecy hosiery forms a very useful kind of manufacture : it consists in inter- weaving fine fleeces of wool into pieces of the common stocking texture. It is not confined to stockings ; but webs of it are woven, which can be cut up and made into under- waistcoats, socks, or other articles. Its warmth exceeds any other woollen fabric ; and hence it is a valuable material for valetudinarians, or fey common use in a very cold climate. :i y 4