Book VIL ON FOOD. 460 duced here in greater perfection than in Holland; and, before the French revolution, used to be exported to that country. 2437. As it requires a riclier soil and -warmer situation than the other varieties of the brassica tribe, it must always be higher in price; but from the great industry and spirit of our gardeners, it is now become so cheap as to be within the reach of all classes. In 1619 two cauliflowers cost three shillings. The heads of the cauliflowers are not nearly so liable to putrescency after being cut as its leaves, which in this respect are similar to those of the cabbage ; and they may be preserved for months through the winter by pulling up the plant entire, picking off the decayed leaves, and hanging them up in a cellar or shed, or by burying them in pits in the ground. 2438. Broccoli.—The name is Italian; it is usually considered as a sub-variety of the cauliflower, and is distinguished from it by the head being of a dark green or purplish colour, instead of white, as the latter ; though lately gardeners have produced a white broccoli that very much resembles cauliflower in all its valuable qualities. The purple sort, when boiled, becomes green. Broccoli is likewise much hardier, and is made to stand the winter; and it is a great advantage that cauliflower and broccoli bear their heads at different seasons of the year. Both are excellent and wholesome. Sect. III. LEGUMINOUS VEGETABLES. 2439. 77ie legumes, or, as they are also called, pulse, contain the greatest quantity of albumen and gluten next to the grains or seeds of the corn plants, and rank the nearest to them in their nutritive qualities. Except the corn plants (which wiU be treated of under the article " Bread") and the potatoe, pulse are the most important of the farinaceous esculent vegetables. They consist of the pea, common bean, and kidney bean, lentil, tare, and vetch : the three first only are used as food for man in Britain. Next to fruits and the nut species, perhaps the pulse tribe were earliest resorted to for nourishment, as it required little labour to prepare it. In their young state, when succulent, several of them form favourite articles on the table ; but when they have come to maturity, or are dried, they are less acceptable, requiring strong powers of digestion. It is fortunate, however, that even then they furnish excellent food for various domestic animals ; and thus the soil ■which would be exhausted by perpetual crops of grain is enabled to recover its fertility under the less severe production of the various sorts of pulse. SuBSECT. 1.— Tlie Common Pea {Pisum sativum, Linn.). 2440. Of the pea there are many species, but this is the only one cultivated in this country. It has long been known as a culinary vegetable in India, China, and Japan, but is probably not originally a native of a very warm climate. It has no doubt found its way into Britain from the southern parts of Europe, and appears to have been exten- sively used as one of the staple articles of food in England at a very early period; for it is on recoi-d that in 1299, when the English forces were besieging a castle in Lothian, they subsisted upon peas and beans grown in the vicinity, after their provisions were exhausted. The more delicate varieties, however, do not appear to have been known in England until much later, since it was observed by Fuller, in the time of Queen Elizabeth, that peas brought from Holland were " fit dainties for ladies, they came so far, and cost so dear." 2441. Tliough culture has produced a great many varieties of peas, yet they may be aU included under two divisions, the white or yellow, and the grey. Of the white, the choicest sorts are raised in gardens to be eaten green ; but vast quantities are likewise cultivated in the fields, and are allowed to ripen to be dried. The grey peas are coarse flavoured, and are used only as food for horses and cattle. 2442. The sub-varieties of the common pea are very numerous, and are continually changing from culture : even the names of them vary, which renders it difficult to determine with respect to the best sorts. Among the principal varieties at present are the marrow fats, the egg, the moratto, the Prussian blue, the rouncival, &c. Peas form a light wholesome food when they are green and succulent, and gardeners sow them at various periods, so as to have them fit for gathering in succession. They are generally distinguished into early and lute; the former are often forced on hot beds, and form the grand vegetable luxury at the approach of summer. These, however, are never so rich and saccharine as those which come to maturity by the natural heat of the season; hence green peas are really of the best quality when they are so abundant and clieap that they can be purchased by every one. When the white or yellow sorts are ripened for drying and splitting, they are called boilers, as they are mostly used for soup, or pease pudding. Vast quantities of these are consumed in the navy. It is found that after they have been kept a year, they do not break or tall well in the soup ; and this property likewise depends much upon the