1027 ARTICLES CONNECTED WITH DRESS. Chap. IX. C0S9. J'eils worn by ladies urc considered prejudicial to the eyes by some oculists ; on .iccount of their continually interrupting the view of objects, they render their images upon the retina confused, distracting and weakening that organ. White is the most prejudicial colour. 6090. Umbrellas. — The Chinese have used them from time immemorial ; and they may he seen sculptured on the ruined huildings of Persepolis, the capital of ancient Persia. Our umbrellas used formerly to be covered with oiled cotton or linen, or oiled silk ; but it is found that these materials, when stretched as the umbrella is opened, keep out the rain sufficiently without varnish. The best sticks are of whalebone ; some are of cane, which are very inferior. The lightness of an umbrella is a good quality, and for this purpose, the stem or handle is best of bamboo or other cane, which unites strength with lightness. It is very important that the circular wire by which the sticks are connected with the stem should be strong, since it is apt to give way, a circumstance very annoying, as it generally happens when the umbrella is in use. Indeed, we would recommend all travellers to have an umbrella extra strong, and the wire is best of stout copper. Parasols are on the same principle as umbrellas, only smaller and made more elegant. 6091. Artificial flowers. — These are beautiful ornaments, and sometimes made with a degree of perfection, as imitations of nature, that is truly surprising. The Italians appear to have been the first people in Europe who excelled in this art; but of late years, the French have borne away the palm. Silk was the first substance used; feathers had been employed by the natives of South America with great success, but there is great difficulty in dyeing them. The finest cambric is employed at present, in France, taffety also, and very thin shavings of whalebone, ^^'e employ here the same materials, and also stiffened muslin. For the leaves of ordinary flowers there are metal stamps sold in the shops ; unusual or fancy flowers are cut out with the scissors ; the muslin is generally dyed by the florist. The petals or leaves, when formed, are fixed on to stems of wire covered with silk, by means of a paste composed of gum arable and flour, and made secure by tying. After separate flowers have been thus made, they are formed into groups and tied together. Much taste is required in arranging the flowers into groups, and fixing them together so as to have a natural play. Artificial flowers are made of various degrees of excellence and price, according to whether they are intended merely to decorate apartments, or to wear in the dresses of ladies. Some are made of an inferior kind, and sold extremely cheap. A great many are made in this country, but it is admitted that we do not equal the French in their best flowers. Flowers made of thin leaves of coloured wax excel, perhaps, all others in appearance ; but they are only fit for ornaments to be kept under glass, and cannot be worn in articles of dress. G092. Walking canes are made of a great variety of substances. The proper cane is a species of calamus or reed which grows in India, and is remarkable for its glossy smoothness ; the external thin covering being actual siliceous matter. Beads. 6093. These well-known ornamental articles have been in general estimation at all times, and in all countries, and are made of a great number of substances. 6094. Those of glass are by far the most gener.-U, and are of great antiquity, being found not uncommonly in the ruins of ancient Egypt. The princip.il manufacture of glass beads of all colours and sizes is at Murano, near Venice, and is thus described : tubes of coloured glass are drawn out into lengths in the glass- houses, in the same way as our thermometer tubes ; these arc cut into very short lengths, each sufficient for a single bead, by laying them upon the edge of a fixed chisel, and striking them with a blow ; the pieces so formed are then put into a vessel containing fine sand and wood ashes, and shaken about until their bores get filled with wood ashes ; they are in that state transferred to an iron pan suspended over a fire, and stirred .ibout as before, by which their sharp angles get fused, and each piece assumes the form of a round bead. When this process is perfected, the whole is taken out, and the ashes cleaned from the bores by w.ishing, when they are ready for use. Prodigious quantities are manufactured in this place, at a cheap rate, and are packed up in cisks to be sent all over the world. 609.^. Beads made of coral, jet, and other substances not fusible, are made by turning. Those of satin spar are extremely beautiful, and it is proper to know that beads are also made of fibrous gypsum that are so like those of satin spar as often to deceive purchasers, but which are extremely soft, and very eiisily scratched. Beads of pearl are well known ; good imitations of these arc made by filling hollow glass balls with scales of a fresh-water fish ground up with gum. Some of the gems are occasionally employed as beads. 8U 2