2G5 SHAP. XII. BED-ROOM FURNITURE. ised. Moreen, and other woollen stuffs, were much employed some time ago, partly from their rich appearance, and partly because they were thought warmer; but at present they are not so much employed, being liable to moths, and to collect dust. Chintz is generally preferred, being more easily wash- ed ; and curtains of it are usually lined with a thin glazed cotton, generally dyed plain. Dimity has the advantage, being cheap, and admitting of being washed fre- quently. It must be observed, however, that both chintz and dimity are more easily set on fire than woollen stuffs. It is said that the liability to take fire can be pre- vented in dimity curtains, if they are dipped in a solution of alum after they are washed. Fig. 393. represents the bed completely fitted lip. The valance is a piece of drapery fixed to the tester lath to hide the curtain rods. The head cloth is stretched from pillar to Fig. 393. miliar at the head of the bed, and is generally ornamented by being plaited in some lilegant mode. It was the fashion formerly to ornament the bed furniture with festooned and fringed /alances, with highly-enriched cornices and tassels; but these were found to collect dust, luid to occasion much trouble, in addition to useless expense. At present it is the fashion 10 contrive all the parts of a bed in a very simple manner, so as to be easily taken to uieces to clean. The valance, indeed, is now frequently put inside the curtain rods, f hich, instead of being concealed, are made ornamental. One advantage in having the curtain rods outside is, that the dust which collects about the rings can be swept off without oiling the bed. Sometimes, however, for economy, and particularly for summer, plaited balances may be contrived of muslin or other materials, to serve instead of cornices and iOther upholsterer's work, and may be ornamented with lace, riband, &c. ; but this is nnentioned as a temporary mode merely, or where the family can itself manage these matters, [rrhe curtain rods were formerly made of iron : brass is now generally used ; and if they are outside, they are made of metal, and of large diameter ; but they are often \ J made of wood, if they are inside, which makes less noise when the curtains are q5 moved. The curtain rings have each an eje,Jig. 394., below the ring, into which I Fig. 394. is put tijg gjj^ of a small hook sewed to the inside of the upper edge of the cur- tiain; by unhooking these the curtains can be taken down when required. When the rcods are outside the valance, they are fixed to square blocks on the top of the bed-posts, or to brass brackets at the angles. The whole stands upon castors under each post or pillar. These are always of wood, and that the bed may be easily moved, are made large. The kind called French castors, fig. 395., are much better than the common ones, which are apt to come off, and be out of order. Instead of being fixed to the posts themselves, they are fixed to an angle piece, by which they are made secure, and are out of sight. Double screwed beds are those in which each rail of the frame has two screws to fix it to the pillars, which is stronger than when there is Fig. 395. only one screw. 1190. i^i^.s. 396. and 397. are cornices with valances in the taste at present much in ffashion, where the rods are to be concealed. ULULIJLimU Fig. 397.