HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. 328 keeper and lady't maid maj', with propriety, approach nearer to the style of dress of their employer than tlie house maid, laundry maid, or under servants, though in all the same general principle slionld be the guide. IJT'J. Cleanliness (^f dress, whatever may be their employments, all servants should regard as one of their essential requisites. In the upper servants there can be no obstacle to its observance ; the diflicully may be greater with those who engage in the more laborious duties of cleaning a house. Vet with them much depends on habit and management of their worli. Some servants have the habit of getting through even the least cleanly part of their em[iloyments in a comparatively cleanly manner ; with others the reverse is as evident. One servant will scarcely show by her dress, another scarcely hide, the nature of her employments ; so great a difference in habits is there even in this one point. ' 1480. To the habit of neatness the same remark will apply. Neatness and cleanliness may indeed be regarded as inseparable qualities, the one being rarely found without the other. The same habit of mind tends to the cultivation of both ; and where these qualities are found, there also we may look for greater consistency, for a better taste, it may be called, in dress. 1481. To the love of finery are often united habits of untidiness and uncleanliness. It is no uncommon thing to see slovenliness among domestic servants in the morning hours, and in the evening a dress inconsistent, both in expense and style, with tlieir station and means. 1482. In families requiring the attendance of maid servants during the morning hours In the parlour, or at the house door, the neatness of their morning dress is as important as that of the evening, although, from the difference of their employment in these divisions of the day, a change of dress is both allowable and desirable. 1483. Amo?ig the articles of dress which must be regarded as inconsistent with any degree of domestic ser- vice may be enumerated silk gowns and silk stockings, blond, lace, feathers and artificial flowers, bracelets, necklaces, rings, and ear-rings. Will it be considered as entering too much into particulars to mention with censure the common mode with which maid servants dress their hair ? In the morning they are disfigured with tiers of curls in paper; in the afternoon sometimes decorated with long pendant ringlets, to induce which much time is bestowed at night, when, if rest be not needful to them, they might be better engaged in repairing their clothes. A servant of correct taste in dress would never appear in curl papers, nor keep her hair of such a length as to require more than very simple curling. 1484. .The outlay in dress the wages of each servant should regulate. Those who have low wages will not, if they reason rightly, attempt to vie in dress witli those who have higher wages. Propriety and prudence alike condemn such attempts in them, as much as in the wife and daughters of a man oi^ small income, were tliey to compete in dress with those of superior means. 148.5. In servants' dress two thirds qfthe wages only should be spent. The remainder, left in the bands of their principal, or placed in saving's banks to accumulate, may prove a means of comfort to them beyond comparison greater tlian the transient pleasure which a more expensive dress might give them. In the fol- lowing tables will be found estim.ites sufliciently accurate to show, that with judgment in the choice of the materials, and a proper subordination of the inclination for dress to the means for obtaining it, a third part, or even more, of wages, may in most cases, be untouched, and yet the personal appearance of the servant not neglected thereby, but rather improved, inasmuch as consistency in dress is always one of its most becoming attributes. 1486. Tables of maid servants' dress consistent with wages. Table I. — Wages 71. 7s. £ s. d. 1 good cotton dress, at 8d. - - 0 7 8 2 common working gowns, at Gd. - 0 7 0 Linings for the dresses - - 0 2 0 4 petticoats - - - - 0 8 0 Body linen - - - - 0 4 6 Stockings (3 pajrs) - - - 0 6 0 Muslin for caps and handkerchiefs .060 Bonnet and trimmings - - - 0 10 6 4 chequered aprons, 2 white ditto - 0 6 0 A shawl . - - - 0 12 0 3 pairs of shoes - - - 0 12 0 2 pair of gloves - - .016 Sundries . - - . 0 10 0 £in 2 £ s. d. 3 gowns (making, &c.) . 1 10 0 Petticoats _ . - - 0 12 0 Body linen - 0 6 0 4 pairs of stockings . 0 6 0 Aprons - . 0 7 0 Caps, habit shirts, ribands, and gloves . 1 0 0 2 bonnets and trimmings . 1 0 0 Shawl - . 0 15 0 3 pairs of shoes . 0 12 0 Sundries ... - 1 0 0 £7 8 u SuBSECT 3.— Customs and Rules amongst Establishments of Household Servants. 1487. In all large establishments of servants one rule invariably prevails. The men and women servants during the intervals in their employments are never allowed to sit together in the same room. Each, men and women, have their respective places of resort At dinner and supper time only do they assemble together. This regulation it is the duty of both the steward and housekeeper to see observed, as experience has proved it to be favourable both to the morals of the individuals of establishments, and to the proper fulfilment of each branch of household work. 1488. To the housekeeper's room, lady's maids repair for breakfast, tea, and supper, and at all other seasons of leisure. Here, also, butlers and valets are admitted to tea and breakfast, but not at other seasons. The still room maid waits upon the housekeeper, and those in her room. 1489. The steward's or butler's room is the place of resort for the upper men servants; and in houses where a second table is still allowed, the dinners and suppers of the chief members of the establishment are served in the steward's room, the steward's boy waiting at table. . J- -i, J 1490. The still room, formerly the place in which waters of various kinds were distilled for domestic use, and where the housekeeper still prepares confectionery, and all the sweetmeats requisite for desserts, is also the place appropriated to the use of the female servants, who rank below lady's maids. In this room they breakfiist and have tea, and to this room, after dining in the servant's hall, they witlidraw ; and, under the superintendence of the housekeeper, the housemaids occupy themselves there in repairing or making the household linen