180 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. executed, as may be seen by the exquisite performances of Grinlin Gibbons in St. Paul's, and other places, in the reign of Charles II. Gibbons died in 1702, and was the last of our native carvers who arrived at eminence. After the time of Gibbons, the art declined in this country from various causes, and until very lately had become nearly extinct, owing, in a great measure, to the introduction of composition and papier-machee ornaments, which, being moulded and glued on to wood, answered so many of the purposes of the carver's art, as to destroy entirely his practice. These substitutes are still largely employed, particularly in picture frames, ceilings, cornices, and other parts where enrichments are required ; but for some years past, carving has been again encouraged to a certain degree, and is now making some progress, chiefly from the style of the time of Louis XIV. getting into fashion, the ornaments of which being in a style of great boldness, it is necessary to resort to carving in many eases. 798. Castors are the small wheels fixed to the feet of such heavy furniture as are ■ required to be moved frequently, as tables, sofas, &c. ; and they are, in consequence of the weight upon them, peculiarly liable to be out of order, yet sometimes a little care may put them to rights: it is useful, therefore, to understand their construction. a,Jig.\56., is a castor of the common kind: it has a brass socket, which is driven on the end of the leg, which is cut round to fit it: on the bottom of this socket there is an iron plate in which is riveted an iron pin, on which the brass shank, b, carrying the brass wheel, turns, c represents a castor upon an impt-oved construction : to lessen the friction of the shank, which is considerable, it turns against three little balls which are moveable in the interior of the socket: this causes the shank to revolve with much greater freedom, and allowing the wheels to act with greater certainty by presenting their faces always in the direction of the motion required : except they do this, castors ai'e of no use. There are other improved castors : and it is worth while, in most cases, to have the best, the common ones wearing out too soon. 799. When cabinet work is finished, it is well rubbed with fine sand- paper to smooth it, and afterwards dusted : it is then polished. Three principal kinds of polish are used; wax polish, oil polish, and French Fig. 156. polish. 800. Wax polish. This is the most ordinary kind of polish, where it is desirable not to darken the colour of the wood ; but it is not good for table tops, or many other parts of furniture, as it is apt to leave a degree of clamminess that causes every touch of the hand to leave a mark; and water spilt upon it tarnishes the lustre, which it requires hard rubbing to restore. Nevertheless, it answers sufiiciently for many general purposes. It is applied in the following manner ; — To four ounces of bee's wax scraped fine, add one ounce of black rosin pounded very fine, and on these pour oil of turpentine sufficient to dissolve them, so that the solution shall be of the consistence of cream. Suffer this to remain for twenty-four hours till the whole is completely dissolved. Apply this solution with a clean linen rag to the cabinet work, until the whole wood is covered. After the liquid is absorbed by the wood, rub the latter hard with a roll made of baize, and afterwards with soft woollen cloths, taking care that no part shall be left clammy, and also taking great care that no dust or dirt attach to the work to occasion scratches. Repeat this in a few days, or a week ; if any more of the solution be necessary, add some, but the less of the solution that is used to get the work to shine, and the more rubbing is employed, the better. 801. Oil polish. This is the best polish for the tops of dining tables. It Is prepared and executed as follows. Before the application of the polish, clean the table top by washing it with oil of turpentine, so as completely to eradicate any stains of grease that may be on it: then clean this well off by linen cloths. Dip a brush similar to the medium- sized painter's brushes, or a piece of linen cloth, into some of the best cold-drawn linseed oil, and apply it to every part of the table top, or other article of furniture. Let the oil remain on for six or twelve hours,- or more, taking care to guard it from dust Then rub it with a clean woollen cloth for an hour or more. As soon as it appears perfectly clean and dry, apply linen rubbers to remove any moisture tliat may be left on the surface. In three or four days repeat the application of oil as before ; and when this operation has been performed about four times, before the oil is again applied, take a sponge with water blood warm, and wash the table-top all over: wipe it quickly, and dry it with linen cloths to extract all dirt. The oil will have saturated the wood sufficiently to have prevented the water from penetrating. The lustre may not come out so soon as may be expected ; but by perseverance for a month, or perhaps two or three, the labour will be amply compensated by the result, The polish will be brilliant and lasting : it will bid defiance to stains from hot dishes, fruits, boiling water, and other liquids, and may be kept to its maximum of lustre with a very slight proportion of regular labour. Some persons have recommended the use of alkanet root and rose pink with the oil: this gives a rich