676 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. will rise in vapour at 176°, leaving the water behind; and thus these two substances may be separated from each other. But if no contrivance were used, the vapour or steam of the spirit would escape into the atmosphere, and be lost; the method of con- densing and collecting in a liquid form the vapour so raised is, therefore, an essential part of the art of distillation, and is effected by a particular construction of the distilling vessels. 3813. The apparatus that has been most usually employed here for distilling is the still, and although there are many ijnprovements in this apparatus, it will be sufficient at present to describe the simplest: a, fiij. 5G9. is a copper vessel called the still, into which the materials to be distilled are put; suppose water and spirit The still is generally set or built up in brick-work, and a fire is made beneath it, as in the case of a washing copper; b is the head of the still, which takes off. When the heat is applied, the spirit will boil at 176°, as has been stated, and will consequently rise in vapour, and if the head of the still were off, this vapour would escape; but when the head is on, it is forced to pass through the bent tube, c c, called the worm : now during this pas- sage through so long a distance, it would be somewhat cooled and partly condensed into a liquid, which would drop out at d; but, that this condensation may go on more rapidly, and none of the vapour escape uncondensed, the worm is made to wind in a spiral form many times round in a vessel kept full of cold water, called the refrigeratory, by which the condensation is more com- plete, and all the spirit raised in vapour by the boiler is obtained in the receiver e in a pure state, the water alone remaining behind in the stUl, Sect. IV. VARIOUS KINDS OF AEDENT SPIRITS. SuBSECT. 1.—Brandy. 3814. Brandy is produced by the distillation of wine only, and not from any other fer- mented liquor; any spirits made from other liquors than wine are improperly termed brandy. But brandy consists not merely of the spirit drawn from wine, it contains also some water, and is flavoured by the essential oil of the grape, which has been dis- solved by the alcohol produced during fermentation. As this essential oil, which rises with the spirit during the process of distilling it, is of a more agreeable flavour than that of malt or of molasses, genuine brandy, possessing this advantage, is very generally es- teemed above every other distilled spirit. 3815. Brandy is prepared in all the wine coun tries of Europe, but particularly in France, where, however, the localities of the best French brandy are extremely limited. The grapes most proper for wines are not the fittest for brandy. All wines wUl j-ield a portion of this spirit, but the strong heavy wines are in general preferred on account of the quantity they give : in general, however, brandy is never distilled from wines that will fetch a good price, since the profits from the sale of these as wine are much higher than when reduced to the state of brandy. The weak wines often afibrd brandy of a fine flavour ; those of Cognac and Andaye, from which some of the finest brandy is made, are the least drunk in France. The brandy of Cognac is not less than 60 per cent, better than that of Bordeaux, though the wines of the latter place are so much superior. The brandies imported into this country are chiefly from Bordeaux, Rochelle, and Cognac; but they are inferior to those made in the neighbourhood of Nantes and Poictou, from whence private families in Paris, who are very choice in having the very best quality of the spirit, supply themselves. The brandies of Spain, Portugal, and other wine countries of Europe, are much inferior to those of France ; but those of Spain are next in excellence. 3816. Brandy varies in quality, not only according to the mode of manufacturing it, but also from the diff'crence that exists in the grapes, together with the soil and climate; and the variations would be still more considerable if every kind of wine was used for distillation. The large proportion of small wines with which they are overrun in France accounts