590 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. large quantity of brown soluble colouring matter is produced : and as this substance comes •within the letter of the act, a patent was taken out for it, and it is at present the practice among many, we believe most, of the brewers, to use a quantity of this to give the porter a deep colour. This roasted malt is perfectly innocent, but gives no additional strength to the beer; and a dark brown colour is in this case no indication of the strength of the liquor. Some brewers, however, we are informed, still employ only a mixture of pale and high dried or brown amber malt. 3329. In the ordinarij mode of brewing porter the products of all the mashings are mingled together, and they constitute what is called entire beer. It is fermented with more rapidity than ale, and more of the saccharine matter is decomposed, since the liquor is not to be sweet : hence it is more liable to pass into the acetous stage, and requires to be put into cleansing barrels the moment it has arrived at a certain point. As, notwith- standing, it still contains much unfermented matter, it requires slow fermentation for a considerable time to convert it into alcohol; and some time ago this was thought to be best done in large masses. Accordingly, the brewers had immense store vats for this purpose, in which the beer remained for twelve or eighteen months; some of these vats held above 6000 barrels of porter; and that of Messrs. Metix held 18,000, and was said to have cost 10,000/. The porter, during its long repose in these vats, became spontaneously fine, and by a slow fermentation had all its saccharine matter decomposed, so as to be in the state of dry wine. The bitter also became less perceptible, and, from being kept so long, the beer was at length nearly what is technically called hard, that is, it was brought to the verge of acidity, without being at all acid. 3330. The explanation most to be depended upon of the terms hard, stale, mild, and entire porter may be found in the information given by Mr. Barclay, the celebrated brewer, to the committee of the House of Commons in 1818. From this it appears that every publican has two kinds of beer sent to him by the brewers ; one is called mild beer which has been sent exactly as it has been brewed; and the other is called entire, which is a mixture of beer brewed for keeping, or what has been termed hard beer, waste beer from various sources in the brewery, and what has been returned by the publican, together with some beer of better quality: this is put all together into a vat and kept till it is bright. As there are various tastes, some prefer mild or fresh beer, and others the hard or stale beer, and some mix them: but it is supposed that the public taste is changed from what it was formerly, most persons now giving the preference to mild porter, what is called stale being too frequently almost in the commencement of the acetous stage, which renders it unfit for certain constitutions. Here it may be proper to mention that when this is found to be the case, a slight degree of acidity can be corrected in a very easy and convenient manner, by a little carbonate of soda, which is now kept for this purpose in every apothecary's and druggist's shop, and sold for about 2d. per oz. About a quarter of a small tea-spoonful, or less, put into a half pint glass of stale porter produces, when stirred, an immediate effervescence, and destroys the acidity of the porter. Too much soda will give an unpleasant alkaline taste, but the neutral salt formed by its union, and the acetous acid of the beer, acetate of soda, is by no means hurtful, being slightly laxative. This is particularly proper for persons inclined to dyspepsia who drink porter. 3331. What is called brown stout is, or ought to be, a superior kind of porter: but nothing can be inferred from its mere colour, that being artificial: it is about twenty shillings a barrel dearer than common porter. Dublin stout is an excellent kind of porter ■which is thought to be quite equal to the London porter, and is a proof that good porter may be brewed wherever sufficient care is taken. Porter for bottling is also a superior kind, about ten shillings a barrel dearer. Porter is scarcely ever attempted to be brewed in private establishments, though, if required, any one skilled in other malt liquors would find no great difficulty in pre- paring it. SuBSECT. 3 Ale. 3332. Ale is sioeeter than porter, and liOndon brewers' ale is stronger. The ale from various London brewers differs in some particulars of strength or flavour; and the same is the case with what is brewed in different parts of the country: thus AVillshire ale is remarkable for being hard, as are the ales of the west of England generally ; but those who are accustomed usually prefer it. 3333. Bttrton ale. —This ale, so named from the place where it is made, Burton-upon- Trent, is in high repute in this country, and is exported to different places on the Conti- nent. ' It is the strongest of our ales, being about 25 per cent, stronger than brown stout. It is of a somewhat thick glutinous consistence, and agreeably sweetish taste. A small quantity of it produces inebriation with those persons who are not accustomed to it. Its colour is pale, and it is made from the very best pale malt and hops. Much of its intox-