MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Chap. II. 1153 little accustomed to irregularity in feeding. If a slioe sliould get loose on the road, proceed caiitlonslyto the nearest smith. A fast pace will throw the shoe and break the foot. Should the shoe be hanging off, or twisted across the foot, pull it away entirely, and remove any loose nails that might run into the foot. A sandal has been invented to put on the horse's foot, in case of such an accident; it is fastened on by straps and buckles. Sect. XIV. BIDING. 6836. The art of riding is best taught in schools for the purpose ; but a recapitulation of the principal points to be attended to may not be useless. The best form of saddle for general riding is one in which the cantle is not so high as the military, nor so low as the racing saddle. The pommel should be no more raised than is necessary to keep the whole com- pletely free from the withers. The stirrups should be substantial, not only to prevent breaking, but also that by their weight they may fall to the foot when accidentally slipped away, which is of more consequence than at first sight may appear. If they are of the spring kind, it is also desirable ; but it is still move so, that the spring leather sliould be used, which prevents the danger arising from horses catching the leather in the projections of doors, gates, &c. 68:!7. To mount properly, ilMxi rather before the stirrup than behind it; then with your left hand take the bridle short, and the mane together ; help yourself into the stirrup with your right, so that, in mounting, your toe does not touch the horse. Your foot being in the stirrup, raise yourself, till you face the side of the horse, and look directly across the saddle ; then w ith your right hand lay hold of the hinder part of the saddle, and, with your left, lift yourself into it. When mounted, let your position in the saddle be square, and the purchase of your bridle such as not to pull your shoulders ; and let your body have such an even posture as if you held a rein in each hand. In holding the bridle, grasp the reins with your hand, which should be held perpendicularly, with the reins passed, the lower within the hand, and the upper between the fore and next fingers. The reins are tlien brought over the fore-finger, and firmly held by the thumb. It is often directed to place the little finger between the lower reins ; the practice of this may be optional with the rider, and nj a very fine hand is desirable. The bridle should be held at such a length as to enable you, if ymir horse stumbles, to raise his head, and support it with your arms, and by throwing your body backwards at the same time, you frequently may save a horse that would otherwise fall. 6838. A graceful and proper seat on horseback is greatly dependent on a right disposition of the legs and thighs, which should hang down nearly straight, easily, and without force or constraint, all which is brought about from above, by placing the body flat and evenly on the saddle, and opening theknees, whereby the fork will come lower on the saddle. The thighs should be applied to the saddle and to the sides of the horse by their inner surfaces, so as to bring in the knees and toes ; and although the line may be properly broken by some little irregularities, yet the foot, the knee, the hip, and the shoulder should deviate but little from a perpendicular line. The fall of the foot should rest within the stirrup, and should be even with the heel, or very slightly elevated iibove it. Avoid any stiffness in the legs, thighs, or body ; all should be lax, but in a : state able to embrace the horse, either for support or as aids to him. The loins, particularly, should be lax , and pliable, as a coachman's on a box, and for the same reasons ; for by sitting thus loosely, the rough motions . of both are broken. To depend upon the embrace of the knees for support is to lose the benefit of a true 1 equipoise of the body, and is rather to stick on a horse than to sit on one. 6839. IVhen you are troubled with a horse that is vicious, whicli stops short, or by rising or kicking endea- I Tours to throw you off, you must not bend your body forward, as is commonly practised in such cases ; be- ) cause that motion throws the breech backwards, and moves you from your fork, or twists and casts you out , . of your seat; but the right way to keep your seat, or to recover it when lost, is to advance the lower part of 1 your body, and to bend hack your shoulders and upper part. The rising of the horse does not affect the 1 rider's seat; he is chiefly to guard against the lash of the animal's hind legs, which is best done by inclining i the body backwards. But the usual method of fixing the knees in all cases of danger only serves, in great ! shocks, to assist the violence of the fall. To save yourself from being hurt in these cases, you must yield a ! little to the horse's motion ; by which means you will recover your seat if displaced, or keep it at such times : as would dismount a less skilful horseman. 684ft. If your horse grows unruly, take the reins separately, one in each hand, put your arms forward, and I hold him short, but do not pull hard with your arms low ; for by lowering his head, he has the liberty to t throw out his heels ; but if you raise his head as high as you can, this will prevent him from rising behind. I Is it not reasonable to imagme, that if a horse is forced towards a carriage which he has started at, he will '. think he is obliged to attack or run against it ? Can it be imagined that the rider's spurring him on, with his I face directly to it, he should understand as a sign to pass it ? These rational queries are submitted to the ^ serious consideration of such as are fond of always obliging their horses to touch those objects at which they a are or affect to be frightened. Indifferent horsemen, Lawrence observes, should never venture on horseback 'Without spurs. Those who reflect upon the predicament of being placed between a deep ditch, and a carriage lat which their horse shies, will see the necessity of this precaution. 6841. Previously to mounting, everj; one will find his account in examining the state of both horse and fur- uniture with his own eyes and hands ; for however good antl careful his groom may generally be, it is a maxim that too much ought not to be expected from the head of him who labours with his hands. Besides, all such ■ sedulously avoid trouble, p.articularly in nice matters. For example, see that your curb is right ; that your ■ reins are not twisted ; that your girths, over the other, still bear exactly alike ; but above all, that your saddle ilies exactly level upon the horse's back. 6842. On getting qff'the horse, hold the bridle and mane in the same manner as when you mounted ; hold t the pommel of the saddle with your right hand ; to raise yourself, bring your right leg over the horse's back, Met your right hand hold the hind p.irt of the saddle, and stand a moment oh your stirrup, just as when you imounted. But beware that, in dismounting, you beud not your right knee, lest the horse should be touched by the spur. Mules and Asses. 684.3. Mules are a breed between the horse and the ass; but the race is incapable of rreproduction. Mules are highly esteemed in the south of Europe as beasts of burden, but in this country they are only occasionally used for drauglit. They are more hardy in constitution, more muscular in proportion to their weight, and more patient than horses. IThey are also less subject to disease, and longer lived, being commonly able to work '.during full thirty or even forty years. They are fed at less expense, and when in the lihands of humane masters, it is said that their character for restiveness is unjust. They aanswer well for hard and rough roads, being very sure-footed. They have been long uintroduced into Ireland, but in England there is a prejudice against rearing them. In 4 E