ON FERMENTATION. Chap. 11. 547 it contains a portion of both these principles, sugar and ferment; and it is only by the mutual action of these on each other that the process can take place. 30S2. But the natural operations by which the sugar is changed into spirit or alcohol, in consequence of fermentation, do not stop when this alteration has been, effected; for this is but the commencement of a series of changes which are to lead finally to its total decom- position, if nothing impedes it. If the saccharine liquor, rendered vinous or spirituous by fermentation in the manner ■which has been just described, be exposed to the air, in a temperature of about 75°, new changes after a time, accompanied by a new set of phenomena, will take place. An internal motion will be again perceived ; a hissing noise is again heard, occasioned by the disengage- ment of a little gas ; and the temperature rises a few degrees. The liquid again becomes turbid, floating shreds appear on the surface, which partly collect into a sort of cake, and partly subside to the bottom. After this the liquor becomes transparent; but it is found that the spirituous or vinous taste has totally disappeared, and is succeeded by one that is extremely soui: In fact, the acetous fermentation has succeeded to the vinous, and the alcohol or spirit has been converted into acetic acid or vinegar. 3083. Jf this vinegar be kept, not freed from much ivater, and for some length of time exposed to the air, its acidity will gradually lessen, and at last disappear altogether ; its surface will become covered with a mould that will increase into a cake, and instead of the sharp acid taste peculiar to vinegar, the liquid will acquire a very disagreeable odour, and become putrid : this last change, therefore, is called the putrefactive fermentation. 3084. We have stated that these three kinds, or rather stages, of fermentation generally succeed each other in the order which has been mentioned, viz., first the vinous, next the acetous, and, lastly, the putrefactive ; but, perhaps, instead of considering them as entirely dilferent species of fermentations, it is more correct to view them as the several parts of one great process; at the same time it must be observed that this rule of succession is not invariable. For instance, many vegetables become sour, that is, undergo the acetous fermentation, without any evident appearance of the vinous ; and many substances pass apparently at once into the.putrefactive stage. But these are cases where scarcely any sugar is present. 3085. Certain conditions are necessary, in order that any of these stages of fermentation may take place:—1. the presence of sugar, or some sort of saccharine matter; 2. a certain quantity of water mixed with the body to he fermented ; 3. a natural fermenting principle, or the addition of yeast or some other ferment ; 4. a moderate degree of temperature ; 5. the presence of air. These several conditions we will proceed to illustrate. 3086. We stated that sugar is the only substance capable of undergoing the vinous ferment- ation by ichich alcohol or spirit is produced. Every modification of saccharine matter, such as honey, and sweet juices of any kind, can be fermented ; and likewise all vegetables, such as carrots, beetroot, &c., that contain sugar : consequently all substances of this kind will by fermentation afford spirit. But sugar, as stated, will not ferment except it be dissolved in as much water as will make a thin liquid; and it is necessary that there should be much more water than is sufficient to form it into a strong syrup. 3087. The phenomena of fermentation may be very conveniently examined and studied by ^— ^ fermenting sugar. Place five parts of sugar with about twenty of water in a glass vessel, a, fig. 546., furnished with a bent tube, the extremity of which opens under an inverted jar, b, full of water; and, after adding a little yeast to the sugar, expose the mixture to a temperature of about 60° or 70°. In a short time bubbles of gas begin to collect in the vicinity of the yeast, and the liquid is soon put into a brisk motion, in consequence of the formation and disengagement of a large quantity of gaseous matter, which, passing into the vessel b, will be found on examination to be carbonic acid gas ; the solution in a becomes turbid, its temperature rises, and froth collects upon the surface. After continuing the fermentation a few days, the evolution of gas begins to abate, and at length ceases altogether; the impurities gradually subside, and leave the liquor clear and transparent. The only appreciable changes which are found to have occurred during this process are, the disappearance of sugar, and the formation of spirit, which remains in the flask, and of carbonic acid gas, which is collected in the glass vessel inverted over water. When the weight of the spirit produced and that of the carbonic acid gas are N n 2 Fig. 546. —— -"^ -■-