ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 208 Book V. are finer and softer still. To lessen the danger of large scratches, great care must be taken that no coarse particle get mixed with the fine; and to facilitate the rubbing, oil is also used ; but It IS to be observed that the oil itself can have no efil-ct in producing scratches or wearing away ; it merely facilitates the motion of the substances used for this purpose.' 966. Fur taking the rust out of iron or steel, where it has gone deep, or for wearing away any surface of stone, marble, &c., substances must be fii-st employed, such as sand, sandstone, emery, pounded glass, &c.; and these must be used either with a piece of wood, leather, or cloth, with or without water. For taking out the scratches left by these, and producing a polish, polishing powders must be used, each one finer than the other, as tripoli, putty (the name for oxide of tin, not glazier's putty), crocus martis, whiting, cuttle-fish bone, &c. ; and for giving the highest polish, some of these substances washed extremely fine, and used with oil on leather, felt, or some similar material 967. When the surface of any hard substance is to be rubbed off, common sand is perhaps the substance most frequently employed. It consists of minute fragments or broken pieces of the mineral called quartz, and, to be understood, should be examined by a magnifying glass. The grains of which it consists are hai-der than glass, which it, of course, can grind down. Coarse sand consists of large grains ; fine sand of smaller. Sand is never so fine as not to make scratches visible to the naked eye, and therefore it must carefully be excluded from finer polishing powders. It is only to be used where much of the surface is to be removed, or where the articles are of such a nature, that a scratch on the surface is immaterial. Sand-paper, so well known for scouring, is made by sifting clean sand on paper previously covered with an adhesive substance. 968. Bath brick. This is a soft kind of brick, the powder of which is much employed in scouring bright, many articles of fui-niture, as brass candlesticks, knives and forks, &c. The particles of this are not nearly so hard as those of sand. The latter from hardness are seldom bruised much finer in the process of scouring; but those of the brick are broken readily into smaller pieces during the operation, and do not leave those scratches that appear after the use of sand : at the same time that they have sufiicient sharpness to remove a portion of the surface. 969. Common brick-dust is a soft red brick of a similar nature, reduced to powder. 970. Emery is a substance which is the most powerful in grinding down surfaces, from the extreme hardness of its particles, which are harder than sand ; but it is too expensive for common use, and is only employed on particular occasions, where it is required to rub rust out of metals, or remove defects by grinding down a considerable portion. Emery is, in fact, a variety of comndum, the hardest known substance except diamond. It is brought to us in lumps from the isle of Naxos, in the Archipelago, and it is bruised to powder in a powerful stamping mill, and is then sifted into various degrees of fineness. It is used with oil or with water, according to the particular case. 971. Emery paper is made of various degrees of fineness, in the same way as sand-paper, and is more convenient than the powder of emery. 972. Emery cloth is much superior to emery paper for the purpose of cleaning furniture and utensils of iron and steel. There is a great consumption of sand-paper and of emery paper in private families ; but paper is so brittle that it will not hold together after having been used a little while, and unfortunately this happens just when its quality as a polisher is the best from the coarser grains of sand or emery having been rubbed off. By sub- stituting the cheapest kind of calico for paper, an article has been produced, the durability and utility of which more than compensates for the additional cost. It is easily prepared. The calico is strained on stretching frames, after having been wetted with warm size made by dissolving 2 lbs. of glue in 6 quarts of warm water, and then mixing in 2 quarts of water that has been boiled with half an ounce of alum, and 6 ounces of flour. 'VMien this size is dry, another coat of stronger size is to be laid on, composed of 4 lbs. of glue dissolved in 3 quarts of warm water, one pint of the first size, together with one ounce of gum arable, and another of gum tragacanth. While this strong size is yet wet, the emery, sand, or glass powder, is to be sifted on as nearly as possible, and the calico again set to dry, and afterwards brushed to remove the loose particles. A second coating of strong size is then laid on, and this is to be covered with another sifting of emery, &c. When dried and brushed, it will then be fit for use. (^Trans. Soc. Arts.) 973. Gla^s-paper consists of paper covered with powdered glass j it is sharper than sand-paper. 974. Tripoli is a pulverulent substance, brought from the Contineni, and is much used as a polishing powder. It is of a silicious nature, and hence its power of rubbing down rapidly most substances, while its extreme fineness does not cause visible scratches. 97.0. liotten stone is a variety of tripoli almost peculiar to England, and found in Derbyshire and North AV'ales. It is extremely valuable for giving the last polish to metals, glass, and even hard stones. 976. Chalk is a pure carbonate of lime, which exists in vast strata in England ; when burned in a kiln it makes lime, from the carbonic acid being driven ofi' by the heat. Chalk,