Book I. 26 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. by water, and uniting into a paste. Bricks well burnt by fire form one of the most durable of building materials. Pure clays may be made into extremely hard bricks ; but, in the ordinary practice of brick-Inakmg, there are several circumstances taken into consideration. When the clay IS of a very tough or adhesive kind, or " fat," as it is called, owing to the abundance of argillaceous matter, much labour is required in kneading and tempering it, and the bricks made from it are apt to shrink too much, and crack in the drying and burning. A mix- ture of sand prevents this; but if there be too much sand, the clay will not be sufficiently ductile, and the bricks will be too brittle. In many parts of the country natural clay is found, consisting of the just proportions of clay and sand ; and where there is a slight deficiency of either, this may often be supplied by artificial means. It is very rarely, however, that natural clays are found consisting only of alumina and silica. They usually contain also more or less of carbonate or sul- phate of lime, magnesia, oxide of iron, &c.; and these ingredients, though small in quan- tity, modify the nature of the bricks. The iron, if neither lime nor magnesia are present, gives to the bricks a red colour ; but if lime be likewise an ingredient in the clay, the iron causes the colour to be some shade of a cream or yellowish brown. The Roman bricks, many specimens of which exist in this country, and which are of an admirable kind, are of a deep red, as were likewise all the bricks made here about a century ago ; but as this colour is not thought so agreeable as that of yellowish or whitish stone, great pains have been taken of late to obtain bricks of as light a colour as possible, one cir- cumstance, among others, which has led to their deterioration, though it has improved their appearance. Instead of using the strongest and toughest clays, such clays are now preferred as have a considerable quantity of calcareous matter, and called vmrle, or tech- nically malm earths. From this bricks are made of a light-yellowish colour; and when natural clays of this kind cannot be had, it has become a practice to grind a quantity of chalk with the clay to produce the mixture necessary for light-coloured bricks. 79. The common process of brick-making is as follows. Brick earth, consisting of a clayey loam, of just proportions in the ingredients, is usually dug in September, and exposed in heaps of a few feet in height to the action of the frost of winter, which pul- verises and mellows it. The small stones are then separated, by grinding it in water, and passing it through a grating. The clay thus reduced to mud is now mixed with challs ground with water to the consistence of cream, if any calcareous ingredient is required. After remaining until it has acquired sufficient consistency, it is finally tem- pered by working it in a pug-mill, when it is ready to be moulded. Fonnerly, before the pug-mill was invented, the clay was thrown into a shallow pit, in which it was trodden by the feet of men or oxen. When the clay has been properly tempered, it is taken to the moulder's bench, and separated into small pieces. The mould is a box of a size fixed by act of parliament, but with the bottom loose. It is placed on the bench sprinkled over with sand, to prevent the clay from sticking to it; a lump of the prepared clay is dashed in, and the top scraped off with a flat stick. The newl)'-moulded bricks are carried on a wheelbarrow to a place, where, arranged on each other diagonally, with spaces between, they are dried in the air sufficiently to bear removal, and are then fit to be burned. Should the weather be fine, a few days will be sufficient for the drying. The burning is performed either in a kiln for the purpose, or in clamps, which are large square piles of them skilfully built up, with small coal cinders, called breeze, between the layers, and openings sufficient to allow of the admission of air necessary for combustion. Kilns are generally used in the country for burning bricks, which is a more perfect mode ; but for all the ordinary ones used in London, clamps are employed. 80. Bricks burned in clamps, and even in kilns, are not all of the same quality. Those in the middle, and the most perfectly burned, are called stocks, while those on the outside are more imperfect, and are denominated place bricks, and sometimes samel or sandel bricks: the latter are never employed in good work, or where durability is an object. Common stocks are both red and grey ; they are used for ordinary walls. The burning of a clamp generally occupies twenty or thirty days, and requires great experience. If the bricks are too much burnt, particularly where there is much lime present in the clay, they are apt to vitrify, and run togetiier ; and, if not sufficiently burned, they will have no durability. Bricks vitrified or too much burned are termed burrs; and though they cannot be used in walls, are useful in some situations. Bricks made with great care of a natural marly earth, or of an artificial mixture to resemble it, are extremely white and uniform, and are called mark or tnalm slocks. These are employed in facing the fronts of the best houses in London. A sort, culled cutters, are made so soft, as to bear being cut or rubbed into any form, as for the arches of windows. Some soft bricks are red, and are called red rubbers. Piiviii;/ bricks are made smooth, and a little thinner than common bricks. Dulcl'i clinkers arc a small kind of bricks, imported from Holland. They are superior in hardness to any otlier, and were formerly much used, being highly esteemed for