(.Chap. I. HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. 1191 thas the power of suckling her infant, there can be no question that it is equally beneficial tto her and her child. Only in particular cases, -where some constitutional disease is apparent i in the mother, can the abstaining from suckling be allowable ; and this a medical man only ccan point out. In the act of sucking there are, to an infant, important effects. The mecha- inical action of the muscles employed in sucking—the labouring for food, as it has been icalled—is always regarded as causing most beneficial exertions in the infant, such as no cother mode of taking"its food can induce in it. In the act of sucking, the saliva, important tto the process of digestion, is carried with the food into the stomach. The mere swallow- iing of food, given by the spoon to the infant, has not the same effect. The nutriment (drawn by sucking from its source, and conveyed to the stomach, is of the very lightest mature; so much so that if an infant take more at one meal than it requires, the milk iinstantly and easily, without pain or suffering, returns from the stomach, and the infant (Obtains immediate relief from the excess it had unconsciously committed—a relief rarely (Occurring when an infant's stomach is sui'charged with other kind of food. Then the i infant must undergo all the ills of indigestion, which, in its feeble state, are always serious £and often alarming. These ills of themselves afford a strong argument in favour of ■ mothers suckling their children ; or, if they cannot do it, the assistance of a healthy sub- sstitute should be procured. This first provision of nature for infancy nourishes it—as no (Other food has ever been found to do — witli certainty. Every other food must always be i given with the risk of its disagreeing. One kind may be too thick, and overload the ! stomach; another too meagre, and deficient in yielding nutriment. Some kinds create : acidity and flatulence; some relax, others constipate, the infant's bowels ; but, nourished 1 by its mother's milk, such disturbances rarely occur, or, if occurring, are comparatively ; slight. A thriving happy infant is generally found to be the nursling of a healthy mother or 1 nurse. To a hired substitute many mothers object; but do they object upon any very : sound reasons ? A careful selection should be made : the health of the inciividual about t to be engaged for this purpose should be ascertained by medical investigation; the age of I the milk, and its state, examined. To be thin and blue in appearance, sweet in taste, and ; abundant in quantity, are the best symptoms of good parent milk. When thick and ; yellow, its qualities ma)' be suspected; and often it is, with such appearances, deficient in ( quantity. If the milk of a wet nurse does not suit a child, or is insufficient in quantity, I the child ceases to thrive; its bowels become affected, and the skin of its neck and chest 1 hangs loosely upon its little neck and limbs. These marks show something wrong in the i suckling of the infant; they should have timely notice, and, if they continue, the nurse ! should be changed. 7052. During the first two months the baby should be frequently suckled; that is, as I often as it seems to demand it: for, as it usually falls asleep while sucking, and, at first, 1 often before it has had any sufficient quantity, it would be prejudicial to its thriving to i attempt any great regularity in giving it its meals. When two or three months old, it • will begin to take more of its nourishment at once ; and then a more regular system may ' be, and ought to be, acted upon. At three months the intervals between its meals may 1 usually extend to four hours; and, during the nights, these should be much longer—five 1 or six hours. Its last meal at night should be given as late as possible ; and then it should 1 not have the breast again till early in the morning. We are speaking of a child of three 1 or four months old—not younger. At night excess of nursing is injurious to both the ■ mother (or nurse) and the child. A child, suckled often during the night, is sure to 1 awaken often and to require it more and more until the nurse becomes exhausted in ! strength and unable to continue to suckle, and the infant also suffers. One meal succeed- ing another too closely, the coats of the infant's stomach become weakened, and its bowels ' disordered. 70.5.3. Irregularity in suckling is to be carefully avoided, as an infant gains strength to take a sufficient meal at one time. Proper hours for its meals should be fixed and observed : it is cruel to make the infant wait long beyond these periods ; and hence mothers who cannot give up visiting while they are nurses had better relinquish this duty themselves and in favour of a hired wet nurse, who must devote herself entirely to it. 7054. An infant should.never be suckled immediately after it has been crying violently. Its agitation should be allowed to subside ; or, if continued, it may proceed from pain in some part of its body, and this should be discovered befoi-e the breast is given to it. If in pain, it will be of no uise to suckle it; it may, indeed, only incnmse its suffering. When the mother has been, from any cause, agitated, she must avoid for a time suckling her child, or she may cause its bowels to be affected by the heat of her milk, and convul- sions ensue. The same rule must be observed in regard to violent exercise; a mother must always avoid nursing her child while she is over-heated by any excess of bodily exertion. The milk, like the blood, is eqiuilly affected by the emotions of the mind and the exertions of the body. At the same time it may be here remarked, that regular and