1124 CARRIAGES. Book XXIH. carpet or morocco. When fixed outside, care should be taken to place them conveniently, as tliey are often unsightly and in the way. When they are small and fixed, they are called Ireaih. 6()79. The lining of the in/tides of carriages was formerly always of light coloured cloth, but now various kinds of silk are likewise used, and sometimes morocco. In summer this is occasionally covered with chintz. The lining is ornamented with coach lace, fringe, tassels, &c. 6G80. The seats inside are strained over with cane or girth web, and upon this are laid cushions stuffed with horse-hair. Under the seats are placed portable boxes for holding things. 6681. TVie.^oor is covered with a carpet fitted in. 6682. Pockets are fixed to the insides of the doors, and also in front in chariots. 668;3. The wheels of a carricuje consist of the nave, spokes, and felloes. The nave is the short block of wood, nearly cylindrical, forming the centre of the wheel, a, fig. 886., and pierced by a hole for the axis to pass through. It is usually made of elm, but fustic has lately been used as a superior ma- terial. The spokes are the arms, b b, of oak, extending from the nave to the external rim, the several pieces of which are called felloes or fellies, which are made of ash or beech, and are hooped round and protected with iron called the tire. This iron is either in several pieces called strakes, or in one piece, put on heated ; the last is the best way, as the iron, by shrinking in Fig. 886. cooling, compresses the wheel, and binds it very tight; all car- riage wheels are now made in this manner, which is termed hoop-tire, or bond-tire. Wheels are constructed in a form said to be dished; that is, the nave is not in the same plane with the rim or felloes, but falls back, so that the spokes form a very flat cone, as may be easily seen.by viewing a wheel on the edge, as d, fig. 886. This is done for strength, and to throw off the mud and prevent it from clogging ; it requires very skilful workmen to make good wheels; if bad, they often break down; and yet the men must be trusted for the work, for frequently no eye can detect bad workmanship. Wheels have been made wholly of iron, but though these answer in some cases for railroads, the elasticity of wood is found to be preferable in ordinary carriages and roads. The height of wheels varies. Mr. Adams observes, " That, on a level ground, a horse will draw a vehicle with the greatest facility when the centre of the wheel is a trifle lower than the point of draught, viz. the point where the traces are aflixed to the collar ; but this in practice would be found inconvenient, inasmuch as you would be unable to enter the vehicle save from behind, and moreover the height of the axle would necessitate a corresponding and incon- venient height in the seat. For this reason, the total height of the wheels of two-wheeled vehicles is usually made to vary from three feet to four feet six inches. It must be borne in mind, that a low wheel on a very level road, a railroad, for example, may be more efficient than a higher wheel on a rough and uneven road. But on the same road, and with an equal load, the high wheel is that which requires the smallest amount of power to turn it. The number of spokes varies according to the size of the wheel; there are two to each felloe ; hind wheels have usually from seven to ten, fore wheels from seven to nine. An extensive manufactory has lately been established in Pimlico, London, for making wheels by machinery ; and it is said that the wheels produced there are of a very superior quality. 6684. The axles of carriages were formerly made all of wood, whence the old name axletree, but they now always consist of iron ; the best are formed of several flat bars welded together, about two inches or two and a quarter in diameter for a coach ; for light carriages an inch and a half. In common axles, the wheel is prevented from coming off by a pin, called the linch pin, passing through the end of the axh tree arm, the name of the part that the wheel tflrns upon; but as many serious accidents have happened through the linch pin failing and the wheel coming off, an improved method of securing the latter is now practised, by means of a box called the axletree box, which is contrived to answer the double purpose of keeping on the wheel, and to hold oil, grease, or some lubricating substance for lessening the friction. When iron axles were first used, it was the custom to drive a strong and broad iron hoop into the nave to prevent its being worn, and this plan is still used in heavy carts. The projecting seam formed in putting it together heli)8 to secure it from turning on the nave. The commonest axle boxes now used for carriages are somewhat of a conical form of plate iron, with a seam, as above, driven into tlie nave. At the upper part of the axletree arm the axle is left square, and against this a broad iron washer is driven or put to hold fust by shrinking; against this the axletree box works. 668.5. To secure the wheel from coming off, an iron collar, called the ajcktree. nut, is placed on the small or outer end of the arm, and throiigh this and the axle arm the linch