69 iiHAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. rrve our present purpose, we shall here enumerate a few of the principal circumstances, hhich will be more fully explained afterwards. :;309. All animal and vegetable substances (to which classes we have stated fuel belongs') are rmposed of a few elementary ingredients : these are oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitro- 'Bn ; but the latter is seldom found in vegetables, though never wanting in animal sub- naces. Wood, a very general fuel, is composed of oxygen, hydrogen, and carbon : and 'jal, which is of a vegetable origin, consists of the same principles, but having less oxygen ian recent vegetables, and sometimes it has a little nitrogen. Two of these elements are isily conceived, the hydrogen and carbon : for the first of these is now familiar to us, as ling a portion of what is called coal gas, and the last is the pure basis of charcoal; the [x;ygen wUl perhaps be better comprehended when we speak of atmospheric air. We liast the unscientific reader will not feel alarmed at this enumeration, since we can assure nm, that however difficult it may be at first to follow us in the path we are tracing out, vwill be found perfectly easy with a little patience. f310. Air being absolutely necessary to the combustion of fuel, we must likewise beg the aader's attention while we describe its nature. It is not known to half the world that ee air which surrounds us is a substance, it being quite invisible, and appearing to afford 11 resistance to the touch of the common observer. But its invisibility is owing to its Trfect transparency and want of colour ; and we are immersed in this thin elastic fluid ; a fish is in clear water, which to him is, no doubt, equally invisible. That air is a sub- lance can be shown by the apparatus called an air-pump, by which we can draw it out a glass jar, and then its actual weight can be ascertained. It can be felt, likewise ; nace the hand, when moved very rapidly backwards and forwards through it, meets with ee same kind of resistance, though in a less degree, that a stick does when moved through aater. Wind is nothing more than a stream or rapid current of this invisible fluid. The air of the atmosphere is not, as was once supposed, a simple body or element. It is )»w known to be composed essentially of two kinds of air or gas, united together ; and mo- ;nrn chemistry has separated these from each other : it is likewise fovmd that the properties 'f these two kinds are very different from each other, and also from the common air result- ing from their combination. The names given to these gases, which form the constituents ' i'atmospheric air, are oxygen gas and nitrogen gas. ; 311. Oxygen gas is that portion of the common air which conduces to the support of mr life when we breathe ; and hence it has also been named vital air. In respiration, or rv-eathing, we di-aw in air to our lungs, which sepai'ate it into the two constituent parts, iitaining the oxygen, which then mixes with our blood, and enters into our system. It is li.is kind of air, likewise, which supports the combustion of a fire, which cannot burn with- mt it any more than we could live without it. ■ 312. Nitrogen gas, the other portion of atmospheric air, and which we throw out in breath- igg, has no action in the support of life or the combustion of fuel: on the contrary, if *e were to breathe it by itself we should be suffocated, and a fire supplied with it woiild isstantly be extinguished : hence we cannot breathe the same air over and over again. Although we have said that common air is composed of oxgen gas and nitrogen gas, EBt it always contains a very small portion of some other airs or gases, which we must leention as essential to our subject. Of these carbonic acid gas is the most constantly pre- innt, and in the largest quantity, this being generally about one or two per cent. •• 313. Carbonic acid gas is composed of the element carbon, or the principle of charcoal, and f' a portion of oxygen, both being chemically united: and it has a slight degree of acidity, fhhence its name. It is formed abundantly in nature Ln many instances: it is produced glaring the fermentation of malt liquors (for which see Book VIII. " Fermentation "), being oe.e gas which always lies at the top of the fermenting vat, and which feels so sharp to hce nose when snuffed up. It is likewise this gas which escapes when soda water r • bottled porter are uncorked. Carbonic acid gas is, like all the gases, except oxygen, unfit brr the support of life or combustion, and is therefore a suffocating gas; but the quantity piisting in the air we usually breathe is not sufficient to be injurious to us; but, when in irrge proportions, it is very unhealthy. It is sufficient at present to observe, that it is abun- aantly produced by the burning of charcoal, and indeed of any other fuel. It is heavier laan common air; hence in some cases it may abound in the lower part of an apartment, nhile the upper is nearly free from it. 314. Hydrogen gas, or inflammable air, is now pretty well known, being obtained from aal, and burned for artificial light. It is indeed the cause of all the flame from coal or 'ood. ■31.5. Having now introduced the reader loan acquaintance with the composition of fuel and I air, we shall proceed to show in what manner each is affected by the process called com- istion. That a combustible body shall burn, it must be kindled; that is, it must be ■ nought into contact with another substance actually burning, and thus be affected by heat. As the simplest case, we will first consider the combustion of charcoal. Wlien a portion if ;■ the charcoal is kindled or made red-hot, the carbon decomposes the atmospheric air