Chap. II. MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. 1133 nothing but the horse's food and should be provided with means for ventilation. In large establishments an adjoining room, for cutting hay or straw, bruising com and measuring, ■n-eighing, and mixing, will be found necessary. 6724. A granary, in a large establishment, or a corn chest with divisions for different kinds of grain in a small one, may be placed in any convenient situation that can be found. If above the stable, the grain can be supplied to the manger by a wooden tube. 6725. Boiler home.— In a small establishment the boiler may be placed in a corner of the yard, but where there is much preparation of mashes, &c., sometimes a room on purpose is necessary to perform the various operations in, and for keeping all the imple- ments belonging to the stable. 6726. Water.— At some places in the country there is a pond for watering the horses, but this water, though it may do to wash the carriage, or for the ducks and geese, is not fit for the horses to drink, being both dirty and stagnant, and, in cold weather, too cold. Water for drinking should be of the best quality, and should be kept near the stable. 6727. Stable yard. — In towns, where the stables and coach-house are in lanes called mews, there is no place to groom the horses and wash the carriage but the mews itself, but in the country, where space is not so valuable, there is usually a stable yard for this purpose, where all the wet work should be done. It may be well likewise to have a shed at one side of the yard, where the horses can be groomed in cold or wet weather, and where they can be moved about occasionally. 6728. Stable appointments are generally known. The Dutch collar and neck strap is ne- cessary for every horse in the stall. Muzzles are also sometimes useful to prevent a greedy horse from taking food from his neighbours or biting. Dressing cloths are of leather, hair, woollen, or linen. Combs, brushes, scissors, foot baths, and stable pails are always required. 6729. Harness room.—Though in confined places the harness is usually hung up in the stable or in the coach-house, yet, where it is possible, and where there is much har- ness, it is best to have a place on purpose. The stable is an unfit place, being damp and apt to spoil the harness, which requires to be kept very dry and clean. The harness- room should be well aired and have a fire-place, be provided with proper pegs to hang the various articles of harness on, and it is a good plan to have a curtain to draw over them, to slide with rings upon a rod, to keep off the dust, which saves much trouble and time in cleaning, the walls behind where the harness is hung being boarded, and not plastered only : there should be also stools and shelves for saddles and various other articles, and cupboards for brushes, brooms, sponges, cloths, bandages, and such things as are in constant use : nothing of this kind should be suffered to lie about in the stable, but be so arranged as to be always at hand. It may also have a chest for keeping corn, and likewise a boiler for heating water. 6730. Room for the coachman or groom.—Where there are valuable horses it is proper that some one should sleep near, to be ready in case of accident in the night, but this must vary according to the nature of the establishment. 6731. Furniture of Oie coach-house or stable:— Coach mops .Tacks for wheels Horse brushes Spoke brushes Quarter brushes Water brushes Crest and bit brushes Dandy horse brushes for dirt Curry-combs Inside brushes Birch and heatli brooms Mane and trimming combs Scissors and pickers Oil-cans and brushes Harness bruslies Leathers for carriages Dung-baskets and boxes Stable shovels and forks Rugs for gigs, carriages, &c. Corn sieves Quartern measures Whipcord Horse blocks Stable pails. CHAP. n. ON HORSES AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. G732. In the following pages we shall confine our observations to carriage and ordinary saddle horses, omitting racers, hunters, and farmers' horses as not coming within the scope of this work : and we shall devote our attention chiefly to those circumstances of proper management which are necessary to keep horses in health in the stable and at work, without entering into the treatment of diseases, which we leave to veterinary prac- tice. We shall, in short, endeavour to select all those facts which it is proper that every one possessing horses should be acquainted with, but intending this rather as a check upon the pretended knowledge of those who may have the immediate c^ire of horses; for no written directions can completely supply the practical skill of an experienced groom, to whom, however, the sole management should not be implicitly trusted, where it can be avoided. With this view the most able writers on the subject have been consulted, and the various details have been compared with the opinions of several experienced persons.