Chap. IV. ARRANGEMENT OF THE VARIOUS APARTMENTS. . 19 iwould be better omitted. Two drawing" rooms opening into each other are found con- u'enient, either in town or country. 51. Saloon. — The name of SaloJi on the Continent is equivalent to our drawing room : with us the saloon is rather a rooni of communication between others, or one to be used wccasionally for music, dancing, &c. It may be fitted up with ottomans round the walls, nnd may sometimes serve also as a picture gallery. .52. Library. — The size of this apartment must depend much upon the taste of the riiwner, and whether his collection of books is considerable. The style of the room and I'nimiture should be rather plain; the walls stuccoed and painted in oil: the light good, bout quiet; a skylight is best, to give more room for bookcases. If it can be conveniently trarmed by steam or hot water, with good ventilation at the same time, it will perhaps be poreferable to havipg an open fire, as it wUl be free from the trouble and dust of a chimney Sire-place. Besides the books, it should be furnished with maps, globes, &c., and perhaps with microscopes and other philosophical instruments. 53. Gentleman's Study, or Business Boom. — This may adjoin the library, being intended fcbr greater privacy and quiet. 54. Billiard Boom. — This in the country is found a useful resource for exercise in bad. weather. The best billiard tables are made of cast iron, slate, or some substance not liable ta) warp. 55. Hunting and Fishing Tackle require a separate room, or convenient closets, accord- ong to the taste and amusements of the proprietor and his friends. .56. Gallery. — By this term is designated an apartment for a particular purpose, such as febr music, for pictures, for sculpture, &c. It is generally of longer proportions than usual. Uf for pictures or sculpture, the hght should be from above, either by skylight or win- Idows placed very high up, and only on one side. Very few architectural ornaments should boe introduced, as they tend to draw attention from the subjects for which the gallery is asrected. It should be provided with long seats or ottomans as well as chairs ; and shoidd boe warmed by steam, hot water, or wann air. Pictures and sculpture are seen to more ndvantage in a gallery contrived for their reception, than when disposed over the walls of 11 house, where many must be placed in unfavourable lights and situations. The gallery nnay, though attached to the house, be under a separate roof, which indeed will sometimes lioe found necessary on account of the light. 57. Lady's Sitting Boom. — This shoidd adjoin her bed room or dressing room. In FFrance, the boudoir is often the most highly ornamented part of the house, which English Cabits and taste do not require. 58. Bed Chambers. It is of great importance to health that the apartments in which we ass so many hours should be lofty, and, if possible, spacious, as a change of air during hhe night is not easily effected. Nothing can be more injudicious than the too frequent loractice of making bed chambers low, to suit what is thought to be the picturesque i^ppearance of a domestic edifice, where persons often submit to the serious inconvenience Jbf low rooms in the upper story, and even of a thatched roof: as if it were desirable to »opy the imperfections of our ancestors. "We will not contend against the supposed principle of taste in diminishing the height of each story as we ascend, but remind our readers that the air expelled during respiration, though it rises at first to the top of the inpartment, yet, if it has no outlet, descends as it cools, and mixes with what we breathe, 11 circumstance which was not known formerly, when bed rooms were constructed scarcely ooftier than seven or eight feet. By referring the reader to Book III., " On Ventilation," the manner in which we consume the air of an apartment will be understood, and the value ibf the above remarks comprehended. The apertures in the bed room story should be so 'blaced that a thorough draught can be obtained in the day time, for the purpose of changing hhe air completely. Every bed room, even the least, should have a chimney fire-place, :aowever small. An eastern aspect is the most agreeable for a bed chamber, because it -'eceiyes the first rays of the sun ; an evening sun, on the contrary, heats it, and renders hhe air oppressive. Small closets, and beds in recesses, are extremely injurious to health, ifw they can seldom be well ventilated. The style of furnishing in bed rooms should be laeat, but plain, and every thing capable of collecting dust should be avoided as much as oossible. See Book V. " On Furniture." 59. Dressing Boom.i and Baths should be attached to the bed chambers as much as is consistent with the size and style of the house : the addition of the latter is more than a nere luxury. 60. Nursery. For directions respecting this place, we refer the reader to that part near he end of the work, where the nursery is treated of expressly: observing, that wherever t is placed, attention should be paid to its security from fire, and the ready means of ■scape. There should likewise be an easy communication between it and the lady's bed ')r dressing room. 61. School Boom. This is frequently a necessary apartment, particularly in the country, ' vhere the young people are educated at home. It should be fitted up with a library of