ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 220 Book V apartments of which demanded that the furniture should correspond. These appeared as novelties ; and the contrast between the rich furniture of the ancient period, and the plainness of the existing style, recommended them. By degrees this got into fashion, which is every thing to the many. We must, however, injustice to our readers, remark, that all this has arisen from the incessant desire for variety, which the existing skill of our artist is yet unable to satisfy; and hence recourse must frequently be had to copying, rather than to inventing, and to re- viving old and obsolete forms, which, though bad, have a kind of novelty merely because they had been forgotten. We cannot conceive, however, that this species of taste can last ; it will some day have its crisis, when art shall have improved amongst us; and we cannot, therefore, recommend laying out large sums in the execution of what will, we apprehend, ultimately be considered as demonstrative of an obliquity of taste. But we are aware how nearly useless it is to decry a fashion at its height. 1029. It nuiy be proper lo state, because it is not generally understood, in what way our shops are filled with ancient furniture, to satisfy the present demand; and there are many, no doubt, who imagine that in purchasing these, they are obtaining genuine examples of what were used by our ancestors. The fact is, as we have already observed, that very little really English old furniture remains; and what does exist, is now carefully pre- served, and scarcely ever comes into the market. The old furniture seen so abundantly at the upholsterers and brokers, as also at auctions, is imported from the Continent. Persons are sent over to travel, and to penetrate even into obscure places in Holland, Flanders, Germany, and other parts of Europe, in search of these treasures, where they still exist in their original state ; and these are brought over almost in ship loads. What is portable, is frequently carried and sold as it is : but a great deal is taken to pieces, and only the carved and ornamental parts conveyed. These are purchased at sales by our cabinet- makers, who dissect them, and make up the parts into articles adapted to our wants and customs, skilfully inserting the old carvings, so as to make the whole resemble an ori- ginal piece of furniture. In these recompositions, considerable skill, and often taste, are employed ; the most uncouth pieces are rejected, or placed so as to strike chiefly by their oddity, or by giving an antiquated air. Cabinets have new drawers, sometimes of old wood; all defects are repaired, pieces made to match others that are wanting, or too much worm eaten; or they are metamorphosed into wardrobes. Chairs are mended, varnished, and re-covered with rich velvets or silks. Sideboards, and other useful and modem articles, are composed out of various fragments ; and among these restorations, we can sometimes detect even the ornaments of churches, which have suffered during the sup- pression of convents, and other changes consequent upon political revolutions. By this ingenious means, a species of magnificence is produced, comparatively at a cheap rate ; for such articles do not, after all, cost nearly so much as a similar piece of furniture would do, if made and decorated with as much carving; to say nothing of the impossibility of our mechanics at present equalling the merit of much of the ancient carved work. Still, we must beg to repeat, that, although such furniture has an interest from its sin- gularity, and historical associations, yet the magnificence it is calculated to exhibit is of a gloomy cast, and rather carries us back to unrefined and semibarbarous times, than keeps pace with, and forwards, real improvement in taste, having no kind of intrinsic superiority. There are in London certain upholsterers who particularly deal in this ancient furniture, the procuring of which forms, indeed, a particular line of business ; others prefer making designs of a.novel kind, avoiding exact imitations of any old styles. This subject will be exemplified in the wood-cuts of furniture. CHAP. X. FURNITUKE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTJIENTS. lono. A complete list of furniture will be found at the end of this section ; and the fol- lowing pages will contain descriptions of all the principal articles, with remarks calculated to facilitate an acquaintance with their various qualities. Sect. L •WINDOW CUnTAINS. lO.Tl. Window curtains add much to the comfort and elegance of apartment.':; con- siderable tnste and judgment are exercised in designing them of the most agreeable forms, and adapting tlicm in the most judicious manner for tlie several places to which they are destined. Tlieir use is either to add warmth to the apartnients by excluding the draughts