1249 Chap. VI. MANAGEMENT OF THE SICK ROOM. a patient when requisite ; activity, wakefulness, cheerfulness, yet with the power of being silent, a noisy nurse being most unfit for sick patients; intelligent enough to understand readily the often indistinctly expressed wishes of an invalid, and educated enough to read the directions attached to the medicines ordered. Her age should not exceed fifty, nor be much less than thirty years. She should be free from any habitual cough, or any habit which might annoy a patient, such as snufF-taking, &c. 7317. A society has been formed in London for the instruction of sick nurses. Those sent out go by the name of the Protestant Sisters of Charity, and are taught to perform aU the offices of charity, for which the Roman Catholic Sisters of Charity have been so long distinguished. Much good may be expected by the extension of this benevolent institu- tion, for the sisters are engaged to serve the poor as well as the rich ; the latter only being expected to afford the pecuniary means of supporting the institution. No money is given to the sisters by the patients or their friends. Sect. III. COURSE TO BE PUHSDED BY NURSES IN SEVERE AND TEDIOUS SICKNESS. 7318. During the first week of typhus fever, in addition to the remedies ordered by the physician, and with which we have nothing to do here, certain things are ordered in the majority of cases, and the performance of which, although most important, is ofiten left to the judgment of an ignorant nurse. For instance, if the skin be hot, and the pulse quick, the skin is directed to be bathed night and morning with cold or tepid water, according to the heat of the skin, tlie age and strength of the patient, and the kind and period of the ' disease. Now, this is a measure, not only important as regards ultimate cure, but very important as regards the personal comfort of the patient, since nothing gives more relief ; and gratification than this bathing of the skin. The best time for doing it is before the bed linen is changed, as at that time it does not matter about any accidental wetting the ; sheets, but which, with proper management, need scarcely happen. The patient should 1 not be altogether uncovered, but one part should be bathed at a time, and then dried. In ' bathing the part, it is necessary to use a good deal of water, not merely to rub the body • with a wet sponge; the arms for instance may be held over a basin, and water freely ] poured upon them. After free bathing of this kind, the dry and harsh unpleasant feeling ; about the skin goes off, and the patient feels relieved and comfortable. This bathing of t the skin is still more useful in the early stage of scarlatina, when the skin is usually very Ihot. 7319. In cases of typhus, which have continued some time, and in which the patient's sstrength has been reduced, this free bathing is inadmissible; but if the sponging be 1 ordered in such a case, the physician will probably stand by, and, to prevent any injurious (excess in the bathing, see it done himself. 7320. Another remedy, which is almost always used in the early stages of typhus, is tthe application of cold to the head, in the form of linen cloths soaked in cold water, or eevaporating lotion, or ice, applied in a way presently to be described. The use of these ccold applications to the head is to prevent any congestion and accumulation of blood »within it (a circumstance exceedingly common in fevers); or to moderate such accumu- llation when it does occur ; or to keep down any inflammation of the brain, or parts be- 1 longing to it, for inflammation of the brain or its membranes in various degrees is rnot unusual in cases of typhus fever. In order to apply cold effectually, it is, in almost lall cases, necessary to shave the head, or to cut the hair very short ; and to secure the full ^advantage of cold applications, the finest head of hair must be sacrificed. Parents who, :for appearance sake, refuse such a petty sacrifice when life is in peril, are often sufficiently [punished by the ill-success of the treatment. When the head has been shaved, a cloth Idipped in cold water should be applied over as much space as possible; to prevent the I'pillow being wetted by the water, a piece of common oil-silk, which can easily be pro- ■ cured, should be laid under the head upon the pillow. A piece of simple linen is better 'than soaking a nightcap and putting it on, as is sometimes done ; it is less heavjr, and nmore easily wetted again. The linen cloth should never be left on till it is dry ; nurses ■ often allow it when it becomes dry and harsli, and the liead gets hotter than before its lapplication. Another way of applying cold water is to fill a large bladder about one- ■ithird full of water; it moulds itself upon the head, and is not very heavy. 7321. Ice is best applied by pounding it very small, and half filling a large bladder with it ; this also moulds itself upon the head, and is a very powerful agent. It should HQot be suffered to be on the head too long, else it may reduce the heat too much ; it shoidd ibherefore be removed for a few minutes from time to time. 7322. Bij letliny water fall from some height, drop hi/ drop, on the forehead of a highly ilelirious patient a most powerful effect is sometimes produced; but this is too strong a ii-neasure to be had recourse to, without the sanction of the medical attendant. 7323. Another remedy, often inefficiently attended to, is fomentation of the bowels; this 4 L