6 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 1398. Fiy. 505. are silver dishes uiid covers. 1399. Fig. 506. are varieties of silver spoo?is, uaiued by the silversmiths, a, the JidcUe pattern ; b, threaded pattern ; c, threaded shell pattern; d, king's pattern. 1400. The great price of silver has given rise to the art of plating, or covering other metals with a thin coating of it. 1401. French plating was the first method that was employed, and consisted in bur- nishing down upon the heated surface of copper or brass articles after they were finished, successive layers of leaf silver, which thus adhered firmly to the metal beneath, and was polished by the action of the burnisher : but this process was tedious, and it possessed little permanence from the thinness of the leaves; nor could the joinings of these be always perfectly concealed. 1402. A much superior hind of plating is now employed in England, and was the inven- tion of a manufacturer at Sheffield, where, and at Birmingham, it is practised to a great extent. By this mode an ingot is formed of an alloy of copper and brass with a thick plate of silver attached to it, and this ingot is rolled out by a flatting mill to any thinness required, the silver continuing to cover every part of the surface of the extended sheet. Great care is of course taken that no imperfections in the silvering should happen, as these could not easily be remedied. Heat being employed in the process, the two surfaces of the silver and copper are intimately united by fusion, although the temperature has not been sufficient to melt the ingot; for it is known to chemists that an alloy of two metals v/ill melt sooner than either of the metals singly : soldering has therefore been unneces- sary. These plated sheets being now prepared, are cut and hammered into all the forms required, and are stamped by dies and punches into a variety of raised ornaments, which are connected together by solder so as to produce the various articles to be made. To strengthen the hollow parts out of sight, they are filled up with solder, so as to give the whole the appearance and strength of solid metal. One of the most usual articles of plated furniture consists of candlesticks ; and as the business was first to imitate the forms of those which were executed in silver, they were made at first with much raised work that had many points and projections. A favourite fashion in these was one of the orders of architecture ; but tlie capitals and square pedestals of this, with the various mouldings, were ill-suited for plated metal, as the silver soon wore off the prominent parts, and then they had the shabbiest appearance ixissihle. This occasioned tlie manufacturers to change the designs ; the stems were made plainer, and the bases round or oval, with other improve-