797 Chap. IV. I'RESEUVATION OF FRUIT AND VEGETABLES. sliced. It is essential that the drying be complete, the interior as well as the exterior parts. After being completely dried, till the leaves crumble between the fingers, they should be packed in paper, or very dry boxes and put into casks. Baking apples and pears may be preserved by slicing them about the thickness of a sixth of an inch, and drying them in the sun, or in a slow oven. 4571. To dry vegetables so as to render them capable of being preserved and ground intojiour, a mc-thod was contrived by Mr. Forsyth ; which was, to slice the roots and lay them upon a plate of metal heated by steam, which has the advantage of drying them equally without burning. He made the followingapparatus for this purpose : a^Jig. G2G., is a shallow vessel for holding the sliced roots ; i is a boiler of water heated by a chafing-dish, c. a lamp, or any other mode, the heat from which passes through the boiler in a tube ending at the chimney rf y is the pipe by which the steam passes from the boiler to the bottom of the vessel a \ /, is a waste- pipe for the condensed steam, and a pipe for the waste steam ; A is a pipe for adding cold water to the boiler. Rut any other form of boiler will answer ; it is only necessary that steam from it shall be conveyed under the bottom of the shal- low vessel a, into which the vegetables are put ; and this may be of any shape and size that may be found convenient. When the starch or flour of potatoes is extracted^ it is easily preserved for years, by packing it closely in barrels, and keeping it dry. 4572. To preserve sweet and savoury herbs for sea'^oningby drying,—Although dried herbs are inferior to those in a fresh state, yet they are still extremely useful. Drying in the sun is often uncertain ; and they are better dried in a drying-stove, not too warm so as to burn them, or by a good fire. It is important that they should he dried as quickly as possible, that they may not lose their flavour by fermenting and growing mouldy. They should be spread thin and often turned ; and when dry, they should be shaken in a large meshed sieve to get rid of the eggs of any insects that would otherwise be hatched among them. Tlie same method and pre- caution should be used in drying flowers ; but some succulent flowers, as the petals of the liliaceous plants, cannot well be dried. When dried, rub the leaves off the stalks ; pound, sift, and keep them in bottles well corked. Field's drying closet, fig. R27., is convenient for this purpose. It consists of a closet having trays placed in shelves, in which the herbs are put; and a current of air heated by a stove below it "n/ is made to enter through npcrturos, and to circulate between the shelves by an aper- ^ ture in each, according to tlie direction of the arrows. The details of construction are ^ ■■ - — - described in " Gray's Operative Chemist." ~ 4.'S73. C*yrn is preserved by drying in granaries. In some parts of the country, par- ticularly on the east of Scotland, the proprietors of land have had granaries erected ^ on their estates, where, in times of plenty, they store the grain and meal which they {> . ■ - receive from their tenants as part of their rent; and it is well-known that these store- - houses have often been the means of preventing scarcity, and an unreasonable rise in the price of provisions. It is essential to the preservation of grain that it shall be carefully guarded from damp, otherwise it will heat and be damaged. When injured by wet it may be rendered fit for grinding by being kiln-dried ; but it will no longer be fit for sea. Many cargoes have been so heated on long voyages, when shipped in bulk, that the pick-axe was necessary to get it out of the hold; and then it was quite useless and was burnt for manure. The granary of a farm-house in England is ge- nerally no more than a room well ventilated and dry, in which the corn is seldom kept above a month or two, usually in sacks. This room is sometimes over the barn for the convenience of raising the corn into it witli ease after it is thrashed; occasionally it is a detached build- ing, raised upon stone pillars a little w^ay from the ground ; and in this way the corn is deprived of its superlluous moisture, and rendered more fit to be ground into flour. Great care is taken to clear th.e corn thoroughly from any loose particles that may adhere to it, of dust, chaff, &c., before it is laid up in a granary, in the following method: after bringing it into the granary, it is spread about six inches in thickness, and turned from time to time about twice in a week, and once in a week it is well screened. This management is con- tinued for two months, and after that, it is laid a foot thick for two months more, and during this time turned once or twice a week, if the season be damp, and now and then screened over. After about five or six months, it is raised to five or six feet thickness in the heaps, and then turned over once or twice a month, and screened occasionally. When it has lain two years or more, it is only turned once in two months, and screened once a quarter ; but how long soever it is kept, the oftener the turning and screening are repeated, the better the grain will be found to keep. In turning the grain, it is tossed by means nf shovels from one part of the room to the other, in which operation the dust and other light substances fall to the floor, whilst the grain, being heavier, reaches to a greater distance. By these means corn has been kept in granaries thirty years ; and it is asserted that the longer it is kept, the more fine flour it yields, in proportion to the corn, and the purer and whiter the bread is, the superfluous humidity only having been evaporated in the keeping. At Zurich, in Switzerland, it is said that corn has kept eighty years or longer, by the same methods of management. It is stated that the public granaries at Dantzic are seven, eight, or nine stories high, having a funnel in the midst of every floor, to let down the corn from one to another. They are built so securely that, though every way surrounded by water, the corn contracts no damp, and the vessels have the convenience of coming up to the walls for their lading. Lord Gardnnstone, in his " Travels," informs us that at Geneva, where corn is pre- served for along time in granaries, it is turned about every twenty days for two years, till it acc^uires a suf- ficient degree of firmness, and it is then moderately kiln-dried. Insects, particularly the weavil, are very destructive to corn kept in granaries, and they arc best kept away by frequent turning and good ventilation, or by keeping the corn completely from access of air. 4574. In preserving flour, keeping it perfectly dry is the principal consideration. The barrels or binns in which It is contained ought to be of well-seasoned oak, as that is the wood which has the least sap, and is the driest. The soft woods arc more apt to imbibe damp, which would cause the flour to turn musty. Fir gives Hour the taste of turpentine, and ash is subject to be eaten by worms ; oak is free from these faults. Flour Is liable to be attacked by small insects, which sometimes do immense mischief where it is laid up In maga- zines for public uses. These insects have their bodies composed of rings, and arc of an ohUmg slender form. When they have got into Hour, they nudtiply so rapidly that the only method of saving it from destruction is to convert all that is stUI left into bread without delay. 457.'). Flour and biscuits carried to sea in the British navy are preserved in casks made of wrought- Iron. Formerly these were coated with paint to prevent oxidation, and render them water-tight; but this having been found to communicate a bad taste to the Hour, l)iscuit, or other materials which they contained, they arc now coated on the outside with a waterproof composition composed of Indian rubber (caoutchouc), black resin, and Venice turpentine. For sea store it has been recommended to take out well kiln-drled grain, carefully stored in charred chests, since this will keep better than flour. The grinding could be easily per- formed by a portable mill. Fig. 627.