Book XXV 1182 THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS, CHAP. vm. RABBITS. 7000. Rabbits are not only kept in a domestic state, but also largely in a -wild state in ■warrens, particularly in sandy districts. A warren is an inclosed piece of ground where the rabbits live in holes which they burrow beneath the surface, as it exists naturally; or in banks raised artificially for the purpose : level ground is not fit for a warren, these animals in their native state delighting to burrow in the sides of sandy hills. It is essential that the soil should be dry, sandy, and poor; a damp situation will be fatal to the stock, as they are very liable to the rot; and too rich herbage is unfavourable to their health. In the winter season when the weather is severe, food nmst be supplied to them, consisting of green hay, turnips and other vegetables. The wild rabits are taken in the warrens by nets or traps, and sometimes by terriers ; they are in season from the end of October to the beginning of January ; and are better as food than tame rabbits. There is seldom any other variety kept in warrens than the grey. Vast numbers of these wild rabbits are sent to the London markets in the winter months, and sold at a very cheap rate. 7001. Tame rabbits are renred in rabbit-houses or in hutches ; there are several varieties of them ; the large white and yellow species, and a larger variety of the hare colour. These and other varieties may be had of the London dealers and poultrymen. 7002. The doe will breed at the age of a year, and sometimes in six months, and her period of gestation is thirty or thirty-one days. Some days before parturition hay is to be given her to assist in making her bed, to which she adds the flue which nature has instructed her to tear from her body for that purpose ; forming this bed is the first sign of pregnancy. There are generally from five to ten produced at a litter, but if any of these appear defective or sickly, they are usually destroyed, five being as many as she can well rear : at the end of six weeks they may be separated from her and weaned. The buck should be kept at a distance while she is nursing the young, or he will kill them. Should the doe be weakly during nursing, it is common to give her more nourishing food than usual. With due attention in keeping them warm and feeding them well, rabbits may be bred throughout the whole year, though four or five litters may be considered sufficient. 7003. The rabbit's hutcJies in which they are kept, are wooden houses Jig. 907. two feet six inches, or three feet wide, and one foot six inches high, divided into two by a partition within, that has an opening forming a communication between them ; the use of this division is that the rabbits may be confined in one while the other is being cleaned out, which must be done frequently, otherwise the animals will become diseased. Each division should have a door, and one of them may be wired or fitted with bars an inch apart, two of which should be movable to put in food. The food is put into a trough a, which should be of pewter, iron, or earthenware, as rabbits are apt to gnaw them when of wood. Their grass and greens may be laid on the floor. These hutches are ranged in the rabbit room along the wall a few feet from the floor, or in any other way that may be found convenient, the apartment not being always in- tended for the rabbits to run about in ; though some prefer this, if there are but few. 7004. The food of the rabbit is entirely vegetable. They feed upon common grass, clover, lucerne, and on good hay, and pea and bean straw; greens and roots form excellent food, and potatoes boiled or steamed. They will fatten upon them, but still more if they are "-iven corn and pollard. Some think that the flesh is less dry when fed chiefly upon succulent herbs ; but with these moist foods they must always have a proportionable quantity of the dry foods, as hay, bread, oats, bran, grains, chaff, and the like, or they will become pot-bellied and die. This food may be given three times a da}^; and when they have greens, they must not have drink ; at all times they drink but little. The test of health is their dung being not too moist. 700.5. Habbits are in perfection for fccditig at the fourth or sixth month, or much less sometimes, if they are given farinaceous food. 7006. The diseases of rabbits are not numerous, if moderately taken care of; keepmg them too much on green food, will as has been stated, cause them to be pot-bellied, the cure for which is changing their diet by giving them hay and corn, ground malt, or peas, or any farinaceous food. They are also liable to liver complaints which are incurable. Fattening should not be pushed too far, otherwise they will sometimes drop off suddenly. JI Fig. 907.