98 Book II. ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES, Sect. III. COAL. 427. This substance, sometimes distinguished by the term pit-coal, and now the most important fuel in the world, has not been in use above three centuries. Vast strata of it are found deep-seated in the earth, and it is raised by the regular operations of mining. Notwithstanding its situation would appear to present great difficulties to the supposition, yet it is now completely ascertained that it has been formed from vast collections of vege- table matter that have got together, and been subjected to the action of water, compres- sion, and other causes, but in what particular manner time has wrought so great a change is not distinctly understood. The analysis of coal is not very different from that of vege- table matter in general: each consists chiefly of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen ; only the latter exists in much smaller proportion in coal than in recent vegetables, and coal con- tains a little ammonia, sulphur, and a good deal of earthy matter. The hydrogen of coals is exhibited in the gas-light, and the carbon in the coke, which remains after the distilla- tion of the gas. (See " Illumination by Coal Gas," Chap. V. Book IV.) The superiority of coal over every other combustible, for domestic as well as many other purposes, is now generally acknowledged. The chief objection to it seems to be the smoke it sends out, which blackens or stains the surrounding objects to a great degree, and even in our apartments. * 428. The coal of every different coal-field, almost of every pit, differs in some particulars t but we may conveniently class them aU into three kinds. 1. Caking coals, called also bituminous coals. 2. Open burning, or non-caking coals. 3. Anthracite, or non-bitu- minous coal. 429. Caking coals are those which soften with the heat, and partly melt like pitch or bitumen, throwing out at the same time jets of very bright flame. Small coal of this kind will, by melting, run together, and bind into a hard mass that requires being broken by the poker to admit fresh air, otherwise it would not continue to bm-n. Caking coal is the kind that is mostly used in London, and it is brought chiefly from Northumberland and Durham, where there are extensive coal mines. The wliole goes by the name of Newcastle coals, that being the place where the greatest quantity is shipped ; and it is sometimes called sea coal, being brought by sea. The best of the Newcastle coals for domestic use is from the pits called Wallsend: they burn with a very white and brilliant flame, and do not cake so hard as some others. The small coal of this kind is what is used by the blacksmiths. The Tanfield moor coals are the strongest, and cake the hardest : they are mostly used in furnaces. Cannel coal is a much rarer variety of the bituminous sort, that burns with a very bright white flame, and is employed by the poorer people in the north for affording light instead of candles ; " cannel " being the mode of pronouncing " candle " in the north. It does not soil the fingers, and is sometimes turned on the lathe into various ornaments. When put into the fire it is apt to split and fly out, but is sometirnes mixed with other coal, on account of the flame which it affords. Scotch coal is generally of a large kind : some of it is a strong well bm-ning coal, but not nearly so bituminous as the Newcastle. It is scarcely known in London. 430. Open burning coal, called also cherry coal, is much less bituminous than the New- castle, gives much flame and ashes, but does not cake. The Shropshire coal is of this kind. This coal, which gives a white ash, is convenient for burning in a chamber in summer, because a very small fire will keep in : whereas with a strong coal the fire requires frequent attention. From this circimistance the cherry coal is often very useful to an invalid. 431. Anthracite is a coal very different in its properties from all the others. It con- sists almost wholly of carbon, without any, or at least very little hydrogen : consequently it gives no flame nor smoke ; nor can it afford any gas. It is indeed nearly a mineral charcoal, and differs little from coke, which it resembles in most of its properties, though very unlike in appearance, for it is smooth in its fracture, and has a high shining lustre, superior to that of the richest Newcastle coal, and does not soil the fingers. It is difficult to kindle, and cannot be burned in an open grate without an admixture of bituminous or Newcastle coal; but it may be easily burned in close stoves or furnaces. Abundance of it is found in South Wales, and it begins now to be brought to London for stoves. It is likewise used for drying malt, and in breweries, distilleries, &c. Anthracite is known by several other names, as blind coal, culm, stone coal, Swatisca coal, and glance coal. This coal is also dug at Kilkenny in Ireland; and vast quantities are found in Pennsylvania, where it has been for some time employed in the iron manu- facture, for which purpose it is now likewise used in South Wales. 432. When coals are duo they arc liable to be broken more or less : hence there is always a quantity of fragments which constitute the small coal. When the coal is bituminous.