558 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. and the nuliraent of the futui-e plant; and of tlie cotijledmu, or seed lubes, which contain the matter designed to serve for tlie nutrition of the embryo, or young plant, in tlie com- mencement of its growth, and before it is able to extract nourishment from the soil • the whole is included under a skin, called the cuticle. In the germ two distinct parts are dis- coverable : the radicle, or little roots, which, in germination, descend into the earth; and the plumula, which rises upwards, and forms the stem and young leaves. When seeds are planted, or placed in circumstances favourable for their germination, they absorb §moisture and swell, the membranes which cover them burst, the radicle shoots downwards, and, at the same time, we perceive it sending out minute vessels into the farinaceous part of the seed, for the purpose of extracting nutriment to supply the plumula, or young bud, when it begins to grow. This commencement of germination may be easily examined by pulling up seeds that have been lately planted, and a little before the leaves appear above ground ; and they should be looked at in various stages of their growth. To see the minute vessels mentioned, which the radicle sends into the seed lobes, a large seed, as a bean, should be chosen ; and the annexed cut will exhibit the appearance of it. (/ b c, fig. 547., is the external membrane, or cuticle; d, is the radicle ; e, the plurnula : the substance within the cuticle contains the nutriment of the embryo plant, which is seen sending into it ramifying vessels, 3150. A remarkable change at this period of growth takes place in the substance which composes the mass or farinaceous matter of the seed. Though originally almost insipid, it becomes sweet; in fact a large portion of the starch in the farina has been converted into saccharine matter, evidently for the nutriment of the young roots which have shot out; when these have acquired size and strength enough to find their way into the soil, so as to extract their food from the earth, and the young plumula appears above ground, this first supply from the farina is exhausted, and then nothing of the seed remains but the skin. 3151. It is this very curious natural process, this conversion of the starchy matter of the seed of the barley into sugar by the means of germination, that is brought on artificiaily in the art of malting, on which chiefly depends the preparing of fermented liquors from farinaceous grains. Malting is, then, a method of causing barley to germinate when moistened and laid in a heap above ground, by which a great quantity of saccharine matter is produced ; and after this, and before the young plant has begun to reduce the saccharine matter by feeding upon it, the process of nature is stopped through the application of a sufficient degree of heat. 3152. The following is the process of mailing barley:—Malting consists of four distinct operations, which follow each other in succession,— steeping, couching, flooring, and kiln dry- ing. Barley intended for malt should be of the kind that is largest, heaviest, and thinnest skinned. It should be perfectly sound, but need not be of the fullest kind. It should be all, if possible, of one growth, and not mixed, as grain of different kinds will not malt so equally together as if the whole was of the same sort. It is better also not to be quite new, but to have been in store for some time. 3153. Steeping. — The whole of the barley intended to be malted is put into a cistern lined with stone or slate, and water is poured upon it as many inches above the grain as it is expected to swell. The grain now imbibes moisture, and increases in bulk. A small quantity of carbonic acid is evolved, but does not rise in bubbles, as it is absorbed by the water, and may be discovered from the latter becoming milky if a little of it be mixed with lime-water. The steep water gradually acquires a yellow colour, and the peculiar smell and taste of water in which straw has been steeped; the barley at the same time becomes whiter, clearly showing that the water has absorbed a portion of the colour- ing matter that existed in the husk of the grain. Dr. Thomson observes that this yellowish colouring matter, when procured drj', by evaporating the water, has a dis- agreeable bitter taste, and contains a little nitrate of soda. This water is sometimes removed and replaced by fresh water. After remaining in steep from forty to fifty-five hours, it is judged by the maltster to be sufficiently softened when the two ends of a grain can be easily squeezed together between the finger and the thumb. The water is then drained off, and the barley is removed to the malt floor to be couched. The increase of weight by steeping is considerable, but under twenty per cent. ; when greater, the acrospire will have grown too much, and there will be a loss of saccharine matter. 3154. Couching. — It is now distributed on the floor in regular, rectangular heaps, about thirty inches deep, sometimes enclosed by boards, called couch frames, and in this situation it is allowed to remain for about twenty-six hours. If, some hours afterwards, we plunge a thermometer among the grain, no increase of heat will be perceived, but at last the thermometer begins to rise, and the temperature of the grain will be observed