723 ON SUGAR. iChap. XIII. .'crj'stals, leaving the sugar wLite. The clay is of no other use thau to prevent the water I'from running down too fast, which would dissolve the sugar; a sponge would answer the ksame purpose. This process of claying is repeated several tunes, when necessary to make :l;he sugar quite white, and the loaves are then set in a stove to dry. 412S. Treacle or molasses drained from the Muscovado is the uncrystallisable part of :bhe saccharine juice, either natm-ally so, or rendered uncrystallisable through defects in the process of boiling. It contains a large portion of sweet or saccharine principle, and is therefore, particularly on account of its cheapness, a useful article of domestic economy, lit is considered very wholesome, and children are generally fond of it. M. Cadet has fshown that it may be deprived of its peculiar taste by boiling for half an hour with pul- . verised charcoal ; the saccharine liquor is then strained from the charcoal; when its ilavour is found equal to that of sugar. Treacle is found useful for making beer, rum, land the very dark syrups, as that of poppies, &c. 4129. Several improvements have lately been made in the manufacture of sugar, a short account of which may be interesting. In the manner in which it has been usual to refine raw sugars, a large quantity of unolasses is separated, «o much sometimes as from twenty to thirty-five per cent., and it ihad been supposed that in the juice of the sugar cane, there were two distinct kinds of sugar, one crystaUisable, and the other not capable of being crystallised, the latter being highly charged with colouring matter, constituting the molasses ; and that the process of refining consisted merely in separating these two from each other. But it is now sup- posed that this is not the most correct view of the subject; and that the molasses is not lan original and essential part of the cane juice, but is a portion of the sugar which has ^een charred, and thus rendered uncrystallisable in consequence of the very high degree -of heat which they were obliged to use in boiling the syrup in open vessels. The form- lation of molasses is consequently so much loss of sugar. Various plans have accordingly been devised for diminishing this production of molasses, and consequently of increasing the quantity of sugar ; and some of these have been very successful. 4130. To avoid the action of the fire upon the bottom of the boiler, a method was em- ployed of boiling the syrup in coppers without fire-places, and merely by forcing heated > whale oil through a coil of metallic pipes lying in the midst of the syrup within the boiler. IThis mode prevented in a considerable degree the burning of the sugar and formation of molasses. Oil was used because it is capable of receiving a very high degree of heat, but not sufficient to burn the sugar. 4131. Lately a process analogous to the mode of making Lisbon or clayed sugar, but ■superior in efficacy and expedition, is now coming into use in the British West India 'plantations, being the subject of a patent. The raw or Muscovado sugar, moistened with a little water to dilute the molasses, is put into a vessel having a perforated bottom, and ? placed over another which is exhausted of air by means of an air-pump. In consequence of this vacuum being formed, the pressure of the atmosphere drives the molasses down through the sugar, leaving the latter very white and pure. 4132. Heating the coppers in which the sugar is boiled by steam at a certain degree of compression applied to the outside, instead of the direct action of fire, is another useful iimprovement that has been made upon the old method of boOing. This prevents the sugar ffrom burning. 4133. But the greatest improvement in the manufacture of sugar was made about thirty yyears ago by the Hon. Mr. Howard, a gentleman eminently skilled in chemistry. From lithe weU-known principle that boiling water, or the conversion of it into steam, takes pplace at a lower degree of temperature when the atmospheric pressure is taken oflf", SMx. Howard conceived the idea of constructing the evaporating pans in such a manner, ilthat the atmospheric air could be removed from the surface of the liquid in them by an ^air-pump; and thus the solution of sugar could be, made to boil or evaporate in vacuo, nand consequently with a much lower degree of heat. The advantage of this may be limagined from the fact, that whereas in the old process of boiling in the air, sixty-three [■pounds only of refined sugar were produced from a hundredweight of muscovado, by this ^improved method they got seventy-eight pounds. The saving of sugar and improve- nment of quality were such as to make the patent right, which secured the emoluments of the process to the inventor and other parties, worth many thousand pounds a year; and scarcely any instance is known of so much money having been made in so short a itime by any invention. The patent having expired some time, this process is now gene- r rally employed ; and lately. West India planters having applied the principle in boiling ■ Itheir syrups, obtain pure raw sugar direct from the cane-juice, and much whiter than 'before. 4134. By the old process of boiling the syrup in making the raw sugar, the tem- ■'perature advanced as the boiling went on, in consequence of the concentration of the liquid, which prevented its ready evaporation, so that the heat, amounting to 218° or 220°, and consequently exceeding the heat of boiling water, occasioned tlio charring of a good 3 A