PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1202 Book XXVI. Sect. IV. NDESEUY ATTENDANTS. 7118. The head-nurse, one -who has the entire charge of the infants of a family, should have health of body; vigour of mind; a well-regulated, yet cheerful temper; and un- doubted integrity of heart. So important a post as this in a family should not be lightly entrusted to any one; for in a household of domestics, -which among them has equal power with the head-nm-se to work good or evil to those who employ her? 7119. Wlienever there is a head-nurse in a household, it is probable there is but little maternal superintendence of the nursery. To have such a domestic implies a rank in life in I which minute attention to or active occupation of the mistress in domestic details is rarely i found. In such rank, mothers see their children chiefly at stated hours, and generally in their drawing-rooms, not in their nurseries, where more might be known of their treat- ment. A lady frequenting her nursery at unusual seasons of the day, or for any length of time, will no longer lose caste in the eyes of her household. But should mothers of that kind still exist, the importance to them of having for their deputy in the nursery a trustworthy, sensible, good woman, not with eye-service, but in her heart performing the duties with which she is charged, is evident. 7120. To the head-nurse the exclusive charge of the infant in a family always belongs. She washes, dresses, feeds it, carries it about, and in every way, as time advances, she attends to the developement of all its powers. In all respects she ought to take upon her the mother's duties, and it is well for the infant when she discharges them faithfully. 7121. It will be needless here to enter into any detailed account of the treatment the head-nurse should adopt in the rearing of infants committed to her care. In the foregoing section most of the important points are there given and discussed; and in all, even in the cutting out, making, and repairing of children's clothing, she will be expected to be skilful and diligent. We have said nothing respecting the making of children's clothing, because its style and the materials of which the outward dress is formed are in a constant state of change from the variations in fashion, and with which almost every nurse is as soon acquainted as the ladies whose children they have charge of. 7122. The chief perquisites q/" head-nurses consist of the cast-off children's clothes, ■which should be done away with for very obvious reasons. Their wages are generally in the high classes from twenty to twenty-five guineas per annum. 7123. Tlie customs they are obliged to observe are those of constant attendance in the nurseries, day and night. A head-nurse having an infant under her care is never per- mitted to leave it, nor to allow under-nurses to attend to it more than is absolutely unavoid- able. When they can leave the nursery, it is only at flight, when they resort to the housekeeper's room at the supper hour. 7124. At christenings, as a privilege, the nurse holds the infant ; also she always carries it into the drawing-room whenever it is required there, and again receives it when it is to return to its nursery. 7125. Under-nurses are generally at the command of the upper, under whose superintendence they wash, dress, and attend in every way required to all the children in the nursery, except the infant, the exclusive charge of the head-nurse. Under-nurses do all the cleaning of the nurseries, make the fires and the beds, keep clean all the nursery furniture, and the various requisite utensils of earthenware. They bring the meals from the kitchen, and wait upon the children while they are at table. Sometimes they are required to assist in washing and getting up some of the children's clothes. In the evenings they assist in making or repairing the children's clothing. Good temper, cleanliness, activity, and a love of truth, are important qualities in under-nurses. Their usual wages are from eight to ten guineas per annum. 7126. Of a nursery-governess we may venture to express a preference for an intelligent young person to one of great accomplishments, whose talents might be scarcely called fortli, and who might better sustain her part in a family of older children. But although neither great accomplishments nor much learning can be requisite in the nursery-governess, something more uncommon in her qualifications is in the highest degree important. We are not accustomed to regard the way in which the first seven or eight years of human existence are spent as unimportant, but very much the reverse : we therefore would seek in a nursery-governess for a lady with such powers of mind and such excellent disposi- tion as would enable and dispose her to call forth infantile observation ; to fix it on suitable objects ; to open and enlarge the infant capacity ; to govern with gentle influence the way- ward in temper ; to encourage and give moral strength to the timid ; to cultivate truthful- ness to the very nicest degree, brotherly love, and consideration for all. Skill in the mechanical part of education (so to speak) is comparatively of no moment in the qualifi-