CONDITION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 325 Chap. I. peculiarities always bring into exercise the imitative propensities of childhood. In stature the middle size is, for a nurse, preferable to either extreme, of tall or short; the one often causing deficiency in activity, the other in muscular power. The constitution of a nursemaid should be sound. Tendencies to humours of any kind, to consumption, to rheumatism, or even being liable to frequent headaches, -would detract from the personal fitness of an individual for the duties of the nursery. Li age the nurse should be neither very old nor very young : -were she old she might possibly be very deficient in activity and temper ; -were she too young she might -want consideration and judgment. In dispo- sition she should be cheerful even to liveliness, yet withal gentle. Boisterous gaiety in the nurse would be almost as injurioiis to her infant charges as a temper of irritability and violence. In the situation and duties of a nurse there is much to try the temper; and it is not reasonable to expect that it should be always unrufiled ; still no one is fit for the charge of children who cannot control in herself any violent expression of irritation. 1445. In personal habits the nurse should be scrupulously correct. Cleanliness and neatness are not to be dispensed -with in the individual who is' to lay the foundation of good habits in the objects of her superintendence. Deficiency in such habits can, in her, only arise from indolence; and, if this defect be inculcated Ln childhood by the force of her example, it may, being the parent of so many other vices, blight the promise given in the first years of life of the exercise of future mental vigour. 1446. But after all, no personal nor acquired qualification in the nurse can be put in • competition -with the aU-important requisite of vigorous, effective, and virtuous prin- ' ciples. Neither deformity in person nor singularity of speech or deportment can inflict, . on an infant generation, an injury equal to that -which a vicious influence in the nursery I can eflfect. The arts of deception and craft manifested there have often sapped the : ingenuousness of the most guileless nature that childhood had ever evinced. Such evil 1 once effected, and thus early in life, all hope of honour and integrity being manifested in 1 manhood must be abandoned. 1447. A head nurse, besides being herself scrupulously upright in conduct, should be ; acutely alive to all habitual deviations from rectitude in the conduct of those employed as I her nursery assistants. Should their faults, after a fair trial on her part, prove incorrigible, : she should not from false feeling screen them from detection, but rather should openly ; and decidedly make them known to those authorised to dismiss them. Their occasional I omissions of duty, together with many of the inadvertent errors of youth, may and ought I to be treated leniently, if not entirely overlooked : but any systematic deception, habitual i indolence, and violence of temper, any one of which defects -would render their example I dangerous in the nursery, it is her decided and peremptory duty to expose. If her I employers retain them after knowing their defects, her responsibility as regards them I ceases, but as long as she conceals their misdemeanors, she makes herself answerable .for I the consequences. Let her keep always in mind that although the conduct of a junior : servant may not be as well regulated as that of one who has passed through the discipline I of years, yet that it is part of her duty to see, that no one over whom she has authority 1 neglects to perform her share of work with neatness, cleanliness, activity, and good I humour, nor sets any evU example before those whose infant propensities would render I ready imitators. A nurse who acts thus would be entitled to no common share of respect i and gratitude from her employers. 1448. Foot boy. — Of all the subordinate members of an establishment, such as foot boy, ! scullion, &c., the good qualities to be sought for in them are of an invariable nature. No I one would, knowingly, engage in their service those whose characters could not stand a s strict investigation as to honesty, sobriety, cleanliness, activity, and civility. Possessing I these qualities, the duties of these inferior members of establishments are so much under I the superintendence of those above them amongst the household, that they are on the I footing of learners rather than of able assistants in domestic business. Their fitness for 1 the departments they fill must be sought for, more in the qualities of which they give i indications, and in their promise to improve, than in their efficiency as servants. Sect. III. CORRUPT PRACTICES OF SERVANTS. 1449. Corrupt practices of servants, which are not unfrequent, must here be noticed as 'warnings to their employers ; in whom such practices are discovered there can be no I confidence, for they betray the want of some of those requisite qualities above enumer- lated. The consequences of such low-minded trickery of which we are about to speak I recoil upon servants generally : the good suffer with the bad. In a hotisHioM, every Instiince of pilfering and triclicry i\cciimulates odium on tlic whole class, and makes 1 It inilividuallv w.itchcd and suspected. The prevailing bad opinion of servants Inflicts, too, an injury on the 1 employer and the employed ; a suspicious temper being ,i8 unfavour.iblo to the character of the one as to live • suspected is to that of tlio other, -yet that there Is sufnclciit ground for suspicion must be allowed It Is