Chap. IX. FURS. 999 tended purpose, and such cloth is not only used for cloaks and shooting-jackets, but for a variety of other purposes, as Dr. Arnott's water beds, nursery aprons, and many other articles to be seen in the shops. Even boats, so light as to be easily carried over land, have been made, by stretching this cloth over a wicker frame ; and as the cloth is imper- vious to air as well as water, cushions very convenient for travellers, from their elasticity, are made by blowing up a bag made of it, to which a stop-cock is attached. It may be observed, that this cloth can be scoured with a brush and soap and water when it is soiled. Another method of using the India rubber for the same purpose has lately been tried, founded upon the pressing this material into veiy thin sheets. These are fixed between two thicknesses of cloth, or only on one side. 5884. All waterproo f cloth hitherto made by varnishing over, or by any other process by which they are rendered impervious to the air as well as to the wet, have the disadvantage of confining the insensible perspiration, the consequence of which is that they soon feel intolerably hot to the wearer, and are on that account not only unpleasant, but unhealthy, except worn in such a way as to allow of the external air having free access to the rest of the dress. Such waterproof clothes, therefore, should not be made to fasten close round any part of the body, but be as loose and open as possible when it does not rain: that being attended to, they are found extremely useful in travelling. 5885. Several cloths said to be waterproof, yet pervious to air, have been advertised of late ; but as the processes are kept secret, we are not able to pass any opinion on them. One of them is said to be prepared with the powder of Lycopodium, which perhaps may be eflfectuaL CHAP. IX. FURS. 5886. The term fur includes the skins of all animals that are covered with an exceedingly : soft and fine hair, except those which come under the class of wool. In the northern regions, furs have alwaj'S been highly esteemed on account of the warmth which they : afford as articles of dress; but the most valuable kinds have been chiefly employed to ■ ornament the robes of persons of high rank, and vestiges of their application to this latter purpose are still visible in England, in the state robes of the king, the nobility, judges, &c., which are decorated with the fur of the ermine. This is also traceable in the bordering ; and other forms belonging to emblazonary in armorial bearings. The fur of the black • fox is a princely ornament in the north. It does not appear, however, that furs constituted ; any part of the distinctive dress worn by the patrician orders of Greece and Rome, and I the custom of wearing fur as an ornament is probably derived from the northern parts of Asia and Europe. 5887. It is remarked in natural history, that the colder the country the finer and ■warmer is the fur of animals, it being wisely provided in the economy of nature that I their clothing should be adapted to the rigours of their situations. The finest furs are ' therefore brought from the colder regions ; those of high latitudes are better in quality 1 than those of more temperate climates; thus the produce of Siberia is superior to that ' of Russia, and the imports from Canada are preferable to those from the United States. Even during winter the furs of most animals improve both in quality and colour. The I principal countries for furs are the solitary wilds of Siberia, and the immeasurable forests > of North America : they form the riches of those dreary wastes, which produce nothing . else for human use, and their value has tempted men to expose themselves to the utmost I hardships of cold and hunger, while pursuing the chace amid perpetual frost and snow. 5888. At present furs are esteemed and worn, not only in those countries where they : are useful as a defence against the severity of the seasons, but as ornaments of dress, ; according to the caprice of fashion, by the inhabitants of milder climates, as the Southern Russians, Poles, Chinese, Persians, Turks, &c. All these nations, being of Tartar or • Sclavonian descent, are said to inherit from their ancestors an attachment to fur clothing. Even under the burning suns of Syria and Egypt, and the mild climes of Bucharia and Independent Tartary, there is also a constant demand for furs, although there exists no 1 physical necessity for them. With us they are used partly for the warmth they afford, as • well as for ornament. 5889. Previously to the discovery of the New World, the furs in general demand 1 throughout Europe were procured from the north and north-eastern parts of the Russian ' empire. The colonisation of the countries bordering on Hudson's Bay gave a new turn to I the trade in furs, and the cession of Canada by the French occasioned an immense import- i ation of this article ; in consequence of which muffs, tippets, and furred garments, which 3 S 4