Chap. VIII. 683 ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 3858. The hydrometer is a hollow ball with weights fixed to a stem, which sinks deepest in the lightest fluid ; therefore the strength of the liquor m.-iy be determined by the depth to which the stem sinlis. A mark is fixed on the stem for the depth to which it will sink in proof spirits ; all spirits in which it sinks deeper are over proof, and those in which it sinks less are helow proof; by the divisions In the stem, together with the weights employed, the exact degree of strength may be ascertained. This is the method prescribed by the excise laws for trying the strength of liquors. There are several hydrometers, varying somewhat in form ; but Si/kes' hydrometer is that used by the Excise. This method of ascertaining the strength of liquors requires some precautions in using the instru- ment. The difference of temperature materially affects the specific gravity of the fluid, therefore a ther- mometer is also employed to discover this at the time the hydrometer is used. But to avoid the complicated calculations that would be necessary for this and other allowances to be made, tables are constructed which renders the business very simple to the excise ofiicer. He has only to put his hydrometer into the liquor, observe certain marks, and also try the temperature with his thermometer ; then from these observations, by means of rules laid down for him and his printed tables, he readily finds the strength of the spirit. The con- venience and utility of this mode are incalculable; and to illustrate it, Dr. Arnott relates an interesting anecdote. " A shopkeeper in China sold to the purser of a ship a quantity of distilled spirit according to a sample shown ; but not standing in awe of conscience, he afterwards, in the privity of his storehouse, added a certain quantity of water to each cask. The spirit having been delivered on board, and tried by the hydrometer, was discovered to be wanting in strength. When the vender was charged with the intended fraud, he at first denied it, for he knew of no human means which could have made the discovery ; but on the exact quantity of water which had been mixed being specified, a superstitious dread seized him, and having confessed his roguery, he made ample amends. On the instrument of his detection being afterwards shown to him, he ofl'ered any price for what he foresaw might be turned to great account in his trade." 3859. In purchasing large quantities of spirits of any kind, the hydrometer should always be employed; but other methods less scientific have been and still are resorted to on common occasions for trying the strength, when no hydrometer is at hand. The most usual is what is called the Bead proof the mode of examination by which is as follows: — Take a long phial, fill it half way with the common malt spirit, and give it a smart stroke by its bottom against the palm of the hand; there will then appear on the surface a chaplet or crown of bubbles, which will go off again in a peculiar manner ; that is, first remaining a while, and then going off by degrees, without breaking into smaller bubbles, or swelling into larger. If the bubbles raised in any spirits are larger than those on proof spirits, and go off more suddenly, then the .liquid is concluded to be above pi'oof; if the bubbles are smaller than those on proof spirit, and go off quicker or fainter, the liquid is thought to be below proof. This test is very liable to be fallacious, though experienced dealers depend much upon it: but some of those who sell spirits know how to add certain substances to what is below proof, so as to show the same bead as that which is full proof; and as an instance how daringly such impositions are practised, we find in a well- known work on distilling, distinct and express instructions how to deceive the purchaser. 3860. TTie original mode of determining the strength of spirits, whence the term " proof" was derived, was by pouring some of the spirit upon gunpowder, and setting fire to it. If, at the end of the combustion, the flame of the spirit fired the gunpowder, it was said to be proof; on the contrary, if the gimpowder did not take fire, through the spirit having too much water, the spirit was considered as below proof. This method is very inaccurate. 3861. For ordinary purposes, the relative strength of spirits may be known by weighing the sample to be tried in a phial capable of holding exactly 500 grains of water. An equal bulk of rectified spirits weighs 418 grains, and of proof spirit, 465; hence the number of grains above or below these sums will indicate the relative strength of the spirit. Rectified spirits have a specific gravity of -835, and proof spirit of '930 ; so that in strength, nine of the fonner are nearly equal to ten of the latter. French brandy is about the same strength as proof spirit; Scotch whiskey has 54-32 of water; Irish whiskey about 53-4 ; rum, 53-68 ; gin, 51-6. 3862. TTie most exact of all methods of determining the strength of spirits is by distillation ; rectifying it up to alcohol, and ascertaining how much alcohol there is in a given quan- tity ; but though liable to no error, this is too tedious to come into common use. Proof spirit contains about equal parts water and rectified spirit; rectified spirit of moderate strength has generally about 25 per cent, of water ; and alcohol is all spirit. Proof spirit cannot, like rectified spirit or spirits of wine, he used for burning in lamps, nor for dissolving resins, nor for making varnish, and many tinctures, not being strong enough. 38C3. IVhen spirit is said to he one to three over proqf, it is meant that one g.illon of w,itor added to three gallons of spirits will reduce it to proof; on the contrary, one in three under proof signifies that in three gallons of that spirit there is contained one gallon of water, and the remaining two gallons are proof spirits. SuBSECT. 7 Ileclification of Spirits. 3864. Wc have shown that the object of the distiller is to procure from fermented liquors all the pure spirit which they contain ; and wc have stated, that all spirits are the produce of fermentation only, and that when rendered perl'ectly pure they arc of the same nature, from whatever source they have been derived, whether from wine, malt, sugar, potatoes, &c. But they are never obtained in a pure stale in the first distillation; inde-