STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES Book XXIV, 1118 adopted as a universal pattern ; and it is only by understanding the anatomy of the foot, and the defects and diseases to which it is liable, that the peculiar form can be devised best suited to each animal. As a general principle, the form of the defence should be adapted to the foot, and the foot should not be altered to the shoe ; yet, in some cases of diseased feet, even this rule admits of modification. The foot of an unshod horse expands as soon as it is placed upon the gi'ound, and has received its share of the weight of the body; but when such foot is bound within a solid rim of iron firmly round the horny crust, the expansion being thus prevented, re-action takes place, and turgescence of the blood-vessels, by which heat is evolved, and the horny segment so heated contracts its dimensions, and thus presses painfully upon the sensitive part, and disorganization is the ultimate consequence. To form a horse-shoe, therefore, such as will protect the foot effectually, while at the same time it is left in full possession of its natural elasticity and expansive properties, has been the aim of many veterinarians and many ingenious smiths ; but perhaps nothing has yet been contrived completely adapted to the natural action of the horse's foot. 6813. The shoe now usually worn bp hacks is the seated shoe adopted l)y Mr. Clarke of Edinburgh, Mr. Moorcroft, and others. Fig. 897. is the seated shoe. This shoe is represented in two halves, a and b. The half a represents the ground surface ; its nail holes entered no farther towards the heels than is necessary to keep'the shoe fast. The half 6 represents the foot surface, which is bevelled off, but not entirely to the heels, that there may be no invitation to the heels to contract, from an inward inclination of the quarters of the shoe. The nail holes of the toe portion are carried around the whole circumference, that portion of the horn being best able to bear the shoe pressure without producing contraction. Of course this shoe may be modified various ways ; it may be made wider or narrower, heavier or lighter, or it may be steeled to most unusual wear ; but, as we before observed, no positive pattern can be fixed up adapted to all horses. A well-made seated shoe should present " a web " of uniform thickness throughout, and of a width suf- ficient to protect the foot; but both this and the thickness should be regulated by the size of the horse, the nature of his work, &c., but it should in all cases be suflBcient to obviate the effects of occasional hard wear, or the accidental neg- Fig. 897. lect of renewing. To an animal so strong as the horse, the additional weight of one or two ounces to each shoe is very inconsiderable ; but this addition to the support and protection of the foot is very material in many cases ; and a shoe rather stout is preferable, par- ticularly where there is any tenderness of feet, or tendency to corns. Round the outer edge of this shoe there is a groove called a fuller, in which the nail-holes are punched, so that by sinking into the fuller their heads project but a little way, and are soon worn down level with the shoe. The ground surface of the common shoe used in the country is somewhat convex, instead of being perfectly flat as this is, and the inward rim of the shoe comes first on the ground ; the consequence of this is, that the weight, instead of being fairly borne on the crust, is supported by the nails and the clenches, which must be injurious to the crust, and often chip and tear it. In the seated shoe there are five nails on the outer, and four on the inner side, or four on the outer and three on the inner, because the outer has more thickness and strength to support the nails. The foot surface of the seated shoe presents a bevelled portion over two-thirds of its extent, except at the heels, where it is partially plane on both surfaces, which plane portion is intended to receive the heels. This bevel, or seating, allows for the descent of the sole, which certainly does take place in a slight degree ; but principally it favours the ejection of stones, &c., which, lodging there, might injuriously press upon the horny sole. The seated shoe is best suited to the flat-hoofed horse, and the shoe itself is ren- dered lighter by seating, without detracting from its strength. The smith will sometimes make difficulties respecting the making of the shoe ; but these will be soon be obviated by the owner of the horse declaring his determination to have no other, and paying a little more for them. 6814. Clips are sometimes useful additions to the shoes of horses used for heavy draught; these are portions of the upper edge of the shoe hammered out, and turned up to embrace the lower part of the crust. They attach the shoe mora securely to the foot, and relieve the crust from that stress upon the nails which would otherwise be injurious. They are also necessary where horses are apt to stamp, or violently paw with their feet 6815. The shoes for the hind feet of most horses are forged somewhat different from the fore shoes, but being made a little squarer at the toe for about an inch ; to which square- ness the hoof also is to be adapted by rasping it slightly. For carriage and draught horses, calkins (a turning up and elevation of the heel) may be put on the hind shoes, to enable them to dig their toes more firmly into the ground, and urge themselves forwards and throw their weight into the collar with greater advantage ; but care must be taken that they are not too high, and that they are of an equal height on each heel. ()816. T?ie bar shoe is described by Mr. Stewart as a very useful contrivance. It is the continuation of the common shoe round the iieels, and by means of it the pressure may be removed from some tender part ol the foot, and thrown on .another which is better able to bear it, or more widely diiTused over the whole foot. It is principally re- sorted to in cases of corns, or other diseases of the feet; but it must be ob- served, that they are not safe in frosty weather, nor where great speed is re- quired, and th.at they are apt to be wrenched off in a heavy clayey country. 6817. Tips are short shoes, reaching only half way round the foot, and worn while the horse is at grass, to prevent the crust being torn by the occasional hardness of the ground, or by the pawing of the anim.'U; and the quarters being free, feet disposed to contract have a chance of expanding and regaining their natural shape. , . , (i8l8, A strip of felt or leather is sometimes introduced between the sealuig of the shoe .and the crust, in cases where the foot is bruised or infl.amed, which deadens the vibration or shock in moving, and is useful while the inflanmiation lasts, but should be removed afterwards. . 6819. A piece of leather is also sometimes Jitlcd to the sole .md nailed on with the Fif; 898. shoe, in cases where the solo is flat and tender ; but there is a great difliculty