MILK, UUTTEIl, AND CHEESE. 389 Chap. IV. C c 3 Sect. JII. CUEKSE. SUBSECT. i. — Chemical Principles and General Properlies. 1984. Cheese is the curd formed from viilk by artificial coagulation, pressed and dried for use. In treating of milk we have stated that curd, called also casein and caseous matter, or the basis of cheese, exists in the milk, and not in the cream, and requires only to be separated hy coagulation. The coagulation, however, supposes some alteration of the curd. By means of the substance employed to coagulate it, it is rendered insoluble in water. When the curd is freed from the whey, kneaded, and pressed, to expel it entirely, it becomes cheese. This assumes a degree of transparency, and possesses many of the properties of coagulated albumen. If it be well dried, it does not change by expo- sure to the air; but if it contain moisture, it soon putrefies. It therefore requires some, salt to preserve it, and this acts likewise as a kind of seasoning. 1985. All our cheese is coloured more or less, except that made from skimmed milk. The colouring substances employed are arnotto, turmeric, or marigold, all perfectly harmless, imless they are adulterated ; and it is said that arnotto sometimes contains red lead. 1986. Cheese requires to be kept in a dry room where there is a circulation of air, and they should be turned frequently. The room should be kept very clean by sweeping, to prevent the access of mites (^Acarus domesticus) and other insects. The fly called Musca pulris deposits its eggs in cheese, which afterwards become the maggots called hoppers or jumpers. Even the common bug will infest cheese, if placed near where they resort. The production of mites may be checked by pouring spirits into the affected parts. 1987. Some prefer cheese xohen it begins to change blue, or begins to putrefy; and means are ; sometimes taken to produce this change, or render it ripe, as it is called. This is effected by putting the cheese into a damp place, and turning them from time to time. By this they absorb water, increase in bulk, become unctuous and soft, and begin to give out a peculiar smell, which increases till it becomes ammoniacal. Some gourmands, instead of lallowing them to absorb water, saturate them with port wine, or strong ale. The blue :mould that appears upon the surface of cheese that has been cut and kept shut up too :close is a species of fungus or minute vegetable, and may be distinctly seen when iexamined by a magnifying glass ; but the blue mould which appears in the interior of .cheese is a substance not well understood. 1988. Cheese, when analysed, is found to consist of carbon, 59.781 ; hydrogen, 7.429 ; :oxygen, 11.409 ; nitrogen, 21.381. From its containing so large a quantity of nitrogen, lit must be considered as a highly animalised substance. 1989. As diet for persons in sound health, and who have plenty of exercise, it appears 1 to be salutary; but to those of weak constitutions, and valetudinarians, it is sometimes tfound difficult of digestion, particularly what is made of skim milk and much dried. 'Vauquelin has shown that cheese contains ammonia, particularly old cheese, and the Lodour of ammonia is very evident in what is decayed. It is probably the presence of (this alkali that causes old cheese to prevent the injurious effects of acid fruits, as well as I to render their taste milder. The fatness of cheese cannot be ascertained by its appear- aance: to&ting shows this quality best. Some cheese, apparently fat, dry up with the theat, while some apparently dry cheese, when toasted, becomes fat. Cheese requires a ccertain time to acquire its proper flavour. When too new, it is insipid and wasteful. 1990. Cheese varies in quality and richness according to the materials of which it is imade. It is made, 1. of entire milk, as in Cheshire ; 2. of milk and cream, as at Stilton; 33. of new milk mixed with skimmed milk, as in Gloucestershire; 4. of skimmed milk oonly, as in Suffolk, Holland, and Italy. When new milk or cream is employed partially, there is a good deal of fat or butter in I the cheese, as in the Cheshire, Stilton, and Gloucester, whereas skimmed milk cheese ccontains very little fat; but it is admitted by good judges, that the quality of cheese depends .las much at least upon the mode of manufacture as on the materials. Some of the most :iagreeably-tasted cheese is made of skimmed milk, as the Parmesan, and some of the IDutch cheese. Rich or fat cheese is prone to decomposition, and is apt to collect mites land maggots : hence the poor cheeses, such as the Dutch, are preferred for carrying to <8ea, from their keeping better. Braconnot has shown that the flavour of cheese depends Mupon a peculiar principle which he has called caseic acid. For the process of making cheese, see Book XXV., " Dairy."