iiAP. IX. APIARY AND MANAGEMENT OF BEES. 1185 .; may be cut out, and the bees, being returned into the emptied hive, will, perhaps, be iuble to make honey enough afterwards for their winter stock : but it is to be observed, ihat in this case the hive cannot be expected to be full of honey, because the bees in June aand July are chiefly occupied in breeding; and by this metliod, one, if not two swarms .lare lost. Various other contrivances have been invented for taking the honey without ddestroying the bees, but their description would demand more details than our limits will sallow, and we must refer the reader to works written expressly on the subject, as IBagster on Bees, 1834 ; and Nutt's work on the same. By managing the temperature of the hives, Nutt prevents young bees from being pro- flduced, and consequently no swarms can take place, which often occasions so much I trouble. It appears that under a certain degree of heat, the queen will lay no eggs, nor twould they be hatched : although the collecting and storing of honey will go on at this 1 low degree of heat : the hives are therefore kept cool by ventilation. That ventilation is iimportant to the health of the bees, there can be no doubt; but the swarming being cnatural to bees, it is impossible altogether to prevent it. There is some diflference of copinion respecting the utility of Nutt's boxes, the advantages of which are thought to be iexaggerated: though they are certainly more elegant and convenient than the common Lones, where amusement chiefly is the object. 7015. To protect the ordinary hives from the cold, they are covered with a thatch of straw cor rushes about the end of September, according to the climate and season. This is very t essential, and well-covered hives are always in a better condition the following spring tthan such as have not been covered. In October, the aperture at which the bees enter • should generally be narrowed, so as only to admit of one bee passing at a time. Indeed, la very small portion of air is sufficient for them in winter, when they are mostly in a t torpid state ; and it were better for them, during severe frosts, to be entirely shut up, as I numbers are often lost from being enticed to quit the hive during the sunshine of a 'winter day. It will be proper to remove, by a crooked wire, the dead bees, and other I filth which the living at this season are unable to perform of themselves. To the hives, ' whose stock of honey was sufficient for their maintenance, or those to which a proper I quantity of sugar had been given for that purpose, no further attention will be necessary I until the breeding season arrives; this, in warm situations, generally takes place about I the beginning of May ; and in cold, about a month after. The young bees, for a short I time previous to their leaving their cells, and some time after, require being fed with the : same regularity that young birds are by their parents ; and if the store in the hive be < exhausted, and the weather such as not to admit of the working bees going abroad to col- 1 lect food in sufficient quantity for themselves and their brood, instinct impels them to kill ; and throw out some of the larviB. To prevent such accidents, it is advisable, if during ' the breeding season it should rain for two successive days, to feed all the bees indiscrLmi- I nately, as it would be difficult to ascertain only those which required it. 70IG. It is sometimes necessary to supply the bees with food early in the spring, should • they have consumed their winter's stock ; or if kept during the winter, after their honey is taken. This should not be deferred too long ; the hives should be examined in Sep- tember, and if a large hive does not weigh thirty pounds, it will be necessary to allow it half a pound of honey, or the same quantity of soft sugar made into syrup, and less in proportion for smaller hives. It is sometimes the practice merely to dissolve sugar in water, but without boiling it into a syrup ; but this does not answer properly, for when the water evaporates, it leaves the sugar to crystallise, and in that state the bees cannot act upon it. A syrup is a closer combination of sugar with water, by which the latter is prevented from flying off, the consistence resembling honey. Some recommend a plate of diluted inferior honey crossed with straws, and covered with a paper pierced with numerous holes, through which the bees will seek the honey without daubing themselves. 7017. When honey is scarce in the hives early in the spring, or late in the autumn, and there are no flowers to furnish them with more, and the bees have ranged the fields with- out success, they will endeavour to supply themselves at the hazard of their lives, from the stores of other bees ; and conflicts sometimes occur in consequence of depredations ou neighbouring colonies, which frequently terminate fatally to many of their number. 7018. The best remerly for the sting of the bee is stated in the Quarterly Review. " Extract at once the »tlng, which is invariably loft behind : if a watch key is at hand, press it exactly over the wound, so that much of the venom may^ be squeezed out; and in any case apply, the sooner of course tlie better, laudanum, or the legist drop of spirit of ammonia. Oil and honey, which are also recommended, probably act in keeping o(f the air from the wound. The cure varies much witli the constitutions of individuals: but tlie poison being ai-id, any alkali will probably be serviceable." 7013. 'Those viho wish to amuse themselves vtilh bees should study their habits ; It is remarkable how easily many bee masters can manage them. In particular they cannot bear to be breathed upon. 4 G