BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 714 Book VIII. Instead of the ordinary spirit-lamp with a wick, a little cup of tin with a handle is used; this is filled two-thirds with just as much spirit of wine as is necessary for one operation, by which the waste very common in lamps with wicks is avoided. Care siiould be taken not to spill any of the spirit on the outside of the cup, or it will blaze, and occasion inconvenience. An ordinary spirit lamp with a wick will answer suffi- ciontly well. 4,7?^. 595., is an extinguisher with a handle, to put out the lamp with. A variety of this machine is likewise made, to use by means of a fire instead of a lamp. Tlie extract of coffee prepared by this apparatus contains all the aroma and other fine qualities of the coffee. 4078. Fig. 597. is a view of Platow's patent filter er for making coffee; and^» 598. is a section of the same. The lowest vessel, a h, is often japanned, into which water is put proportioned to the coffee to be used, c is a glass vase with a tin tube, d, attached, and having a little circular plate, e, fixed at the bottom of the glass, and pierced full of very fine holes. The glass vase and tube is fitted on the top of a b, the tube going into the water and near to the bot- tom. The coflFee is put into the glass vase without water. The lamp,y, being applied to the bottom of the lower vessel, the water in it is caused to boil, and as soon as the steam forms, it presses upon the surface of the water and forces it up through the tube into the coffee in the vase ; and when enough has been so raised the lamp is with- drawn, which stops the formation of steam, otherwise the water would be forced over the top of the vase. As the water now cools a little, the steam will be condensed and no longer keep up the water, which will there- fore descend by its own weight into the vessel ab, carrying with it the extract of the coffee. The made coffee is then drawn off into cups by the stop-cock represented in fixj. 597. 4079. By Brain's vacuum or pneumatic filter, fig. 599., coffee may be made perfectly clear and bright in a few minutes : a is a receptacle made of tin, Britannia metal, or other material, fitting into another one, b, which has an exhausting piston, c, attached, by which it may be exhausted of air. The top of the vessel b is covered with a wire grating, and before the vessel a is placed on it, a piece of close muslin, linen, or shamoy leather is laid over the grating, and the vessel a is forced down, so that the joint is air-tight. The coflfee is put into the vessel or chamber c, which is open at top; then open the little plug, d, and press the piston down to the bottom, and add as much boiling water over the cotfee as is necessary. Now shiit the plug, d, work the exhausting pump, c, and draw the air out of the vessel b, so as to produce a vacuum in it; when that is effected, the pressure of the atmosphere, acting upon the liquid in a, will force it through the coffee and the filter down into b, from whence it may be drawn perfectly clear into cups. This machine not only produces coffee beautifully clear, but also with great expedition. The closer the nuislin or linen, the more perfect will be the filtration. Previous to using the apparatus, it should be warmed by passing hot water through it. It is to be observed, that this apparatus, from its mode of operation, is not proper to be put upon the table, but is intended for preparing the coffee in the kitchen, whence it must be transferred to a more sightly vessel. . 4080. Paliiwr\s pnriimniic fillcring mach'ma is nearly of the same constrnction. The essoire ofcoflhc may be also'thus pi epured by this aiiparatus. Put four ounces of the best ground "coffco into a covered vessel, witli twelve ounces of cold soft water. Let it stand for twenty-four hours, stirring it two or three times; after which, pour into llie pneu- Fig. .597. Fig. 598.