Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 791 some parslej', thyme, savory, and two shallots. Stew these together for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour ; have ready a poiind of the mellow part of a boiled pickled tongue, and half a pound of fresh butter: cut the tongue and veal small, and pound them together; then mix the whole more completely together with the yolks of two eggs well beaten. Press the mass into shallow pots ; paper them and bake them in a moderate oven for twenty minutes ; when cold, pour over the surface clarified butter. 4528. Potted birds. — Larks, wheatears, or partridges may be potted ; and in this state they will keep a considerable time. Take any of these birds that are perfectly fresh, as the least taint will spoil all the ma- terials. When they are emptied, season them inside with allspice powdered, black pepper, and some salt. Press them flat, and stew them for half an hour in a liquor composed of two ounces of fresh butter, a gill of sherry, a table-spoonful of essence of anchovy, with powdered cloves, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and black pepper. After they have been stewed, let them be put in a slow oven to dry ; when their moisture is suffi- ciently exhaled, put them into pots, and press them down ; fill up the vacuities and cover them with clari- fied butter. The liquor in which they have been stewed may be employed for the following preparation. 4.529. Potted lobster Boil a couple of hen lobsters for a quarter of an hour with plenty of salt; take out the meat from the shell, but do not employ the soft part of the body, and reserve the spawn ; stew the meat for half an hour with a large glassful of white wine, a table-spoonful of essence of anchovies, some powdered spices, as cloves, mace, nutmeg, and black pepper. When done, take out the pieces of lobster, which pound with the spawn in a mortar, and let the liquor in which it has been stewed be reduced to a third ; to this add a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, previously oiled, and mix them well together. Pour this to the pounded lobster, and when properly incorporated, press it into shallow preserving pots, and cover it with clarified butter. This is an excellent substitute for lobster sauce; in the same manner you may pot shrimps and cr.iy fish, or prawns. 4630. Potted shrimps When boiled and shelled, season them with salt, pepper, mace, and a small portion of cloves ; press them down in a jar, and bake them in a slow oven for ten mmutes ; when cold, cover them with clarified butter. 453L Savsages are made as a convenient method of preserving many kinds of meat that it would he difficult to keep long in any other mode. The principle of making all sausages is simply chopping fine or pounding the particular kind of meat employed, seasoning it with spices, and herbs of various kinds, bread-crumbs and eggs, salt, or mustard, or any of them, mixed in such proportions as are agreeable; then the whole is enclosed in portions of the prepared intestines of a hog, sheep, or calf very well washed and scraped till thoroughly clean. The herbs employed are some of the following; onions, shallots, sage, thyme, leek, garlic, marjoram, parsley, &c. For some kinds of sausages, besides meat, anchovies, oysters, and red herrings are added. The blood of various animals, as the ox, hog, goose, &c., are used in this way, mixed with oatmeal, crumbs of bread, and seasonings of various kinds. The Germans are famous for their preparation of sausages, in which smoked meat is generally used. Machinery is now employed for the preparation of sausage-meat on a large scale : but as in the case of manufactured sausages, the consumer has no method of ascertaining the quality of the ingi-edients, he should be cautious in their use, as it is well known that meat very improper as food can be used in this way. 4.'i32. T!ie following preserved meats are to be had in the London shops: York, Westinorcland, Westphalia, " and Bayonne hams Mutton hams Russia ox and rein-deer tongues Neat, smoked, & pickled tongues W^elsh dried salmon Scotch kippered s;Umon Findhorn liaddocks Dutch herrings and Yarmouth bloaters Gorgona anchovies and anchovy paste Ilambro' smoked hung beef Strasbourg bacon Potted beef Potted ham Potted game Potted shrimps Potted red herrings Potted char IVfarinate herrings PAte au Diable, for making grills, &c. Russian caviare Bologna sausages Modcna sausages German sausages Saucissons d'Arles Saucissons de Lyons. Sect. IX. PRESERVATION OF BUTTER. 45.33. Butter, like the other mild and fat oils, is liable to the change called rancidity which, from the experiments of Parmentier, appears to proceed from the coagulable albuminous or cheesy matter that is mixed with it; and probably the water, which is seldom quite separated from it, assists in the change. Butter not well freed from the milk becomes rancid more readily than that which has been completely deprived of it. By the application of salt, the rancidity of butter is in a great degree prevented for some time: but if the butter be melted and deprived of its albuminous part, it may be kept much longer. Tlte common method of preserving butter is by salting it more or less. Salt, in the pro- portion of one or two ounces to the pound, according as it is required to be kept for a shorter or longer time, is worked up into the butter till they are thoroughly incorporated. 4.034. Dr. Anderson, in his " Recreations," has recommended another method of curing butler, by which, he says, with proper care, it may be kept for years in this climate, or carried to the East Indies, if packed so as not to melt. " IVIix two parts of the best salt, one of sugar, and one of saltnetre, and boat them into a fine powder : one ounce of this preparation is sutTlciont for a pound of butter. This should be thoroughly mixed with the butter as soon at, it is separated from the whey, and it should then bo put into n clean cask. It should bo packed very well down, to exclude the air thoroughly ; the top should bo covered with a sprinkling of salt, and melted butter poureil over it. to fill up every crevice before the cover is fixed down. Butter cured In this manner docs not taste well till it has stood at least a fortnight after being salted ; but after that limo, it 3 E '1