392 ON FOOD. Book VII. the cow, it was only by keeping a large number of cows that the manufacture could be carried ; and the owner of a few cows only was unable to succeed. At present, how- ever, it appears that cheese dairies have been established by the poor peasantry joining together, and thus competing with the more wealthy. Another excellent cheese is made at Neiifchutd. The Schahziegar cheese is made by the mountaineers of the canton of Glarus. It has a marbled appearance and aromatic flavour, from the bruised leaves of the mclilot. The milk is exposed to the temperature of 4G° for five or six days, when the cream is completely formed, and is taken off. The skimmed milk is coagulated by sour milk and not by rennet, and the curd thus obtained is pressed strongly in bags, and when sufficiently pressed and dried, it is ground to powder, salted and mixed with the bruised flowers or seeds of the Melilotos officinalis, and afterwards again pressed into cheese. The entire separation of the cream, or unctuous part of the milk, is essential. Some Swiss cheese is also manufactured from a mixture of ewe-milk with that of the cow. 2004. Westphalia cheese is a skim milk cheese, and is a remarkable instance of how much the quality of cheese depends upon the manufacture. U is described by some as being preferable to the Dutch, Swiss, and even Parmesan, clieese. The cream is allowed to remain till the milk beneath is sub-acid ; it is then removed, and the milk placed near a fire to coagulate. The whey is next expressed from tlie curd, which is dried and crumbled between the hands. It remains for several days until the putrid fermentation commences ; but this is stopped by kneading it into balls with carroways, salt, butter, pounded pepper, ainJ cloves. Some- times these balls, or little cheeses, are liung up in the smoke of a wood fire. 2005. Checsf from milk and potatoes is manufactured in Thuringia and Saxony. The best potatoes are half dressed in steam, peeled and reduced to a pulp. Five pounds of this are mixed with from one to ten pounds of sweet curd, and kneaded together, some salt being added: after lying for a few days, this is again kneaded, and then pressed into little baskets, where the superfluous moisture drains off; the cheese are then formed into balls and dried in tlie shade. These cheeses keep well in the dry, and their quality im- proves with age, with the advantage that they generate no vermin; their taste is said to exceed the best cheese made in Holland.. 2006. Cream cheese, although so called, is not properly cheese, but is nothing more than cream dried sufficiently to be cut -with a knife. To make it, a quantit}' of good sweet cream is put into a cheese vat with green rushes sewed together on purpose, at the bottom of the vat, which must have a sufficient number of holes to let the whey which drains off pass freely away. On the top of this cheese are likewise laid rushes or long grass of the Indian corn, in the same manner as at the bottom, in order to allow it to be turned without being handled It is usual to make these cheeses from one inch to one inch and a half in thickness. The thinner they are made, the sooner they are ready. It is kept in a warm place to sweat and ripen ; but extremes of heat or cold are injurious, and some judgment must be used in managing it. CHAP. V. BIRDS. Sect. I. INTRODUCTORY OBSERVATIONS. 2007. The feathered tribe of animals, or birds, furnish a considerable and varied supply of sustenance to man : and they possess this quality in common with quadrupeds, that none of them are absolutely deleterious when used as food, although their properties in this respect vary considerably. Like quadrupeds, also, some birds which have been found the fittest for the table have been long domesticated, -whilst others remain always wild. Birds of prey are never eaten amongst us, their flesh being coarse, tough, and ill-flavoured. 2008. Those which serve us as food may he divided into such as are domesticated, as the common fowl, turkey, duck, and goose ; wild birds, usually termed game, as the pheasant, partridge, grouse, -woodcock, &c.; and some other wild birds, that are not considered as game, such as lark, pigeon, &c. Of birds both domestic and wild, some are white-fleshed, as the common fowl, turkc}-, and pheasant; others have a dark-coloured flesh, as the duck, goose, and pigeon, also grouse, blackcock, &c. Game in this country is usually considered as a luxury, rather than a general article of food ; and it is frequently kept for some time, until it has acquired a pecrUiar odour, called fiimet, and a certain slightly aromatic bitter taste. Of aquatic birds, both swimmers and waders, many are very delicate, though in general they are disposed to become fat, and some have a rank fisliy taste. 2009. Not only the fattening, but the flavour of birds is very much influenced by the