^■'^ ON FOOD. Book VII. upon this subject. Carnivorous animals are distinguished from the herbivorous class by their teeth and the organs of digestion: the liret are formed in each class in a manner suited to the work they have to go through; and the latter, in such animals as feed solely u])on vegetables, are of very gi-oat length, as their food requires to be detained longer in the stomach, being more difficult of solution. The omnivorous nature of man appears to be pointed out by his having these organs of a form intermediate between the two classes ■we have just named. In consequence of this, he enjoys a wider range in the power of extracting nutriment from a great variety of substances. Although he cannot live upon dry wood like many insects, nor digest holies like the hya;na, the great variety which he can subsist upon is eminently calculated for adapting him to different climates, and con- sequently extending his power into every region of the globe. 1734. Willi respect to the effect which these two classes of food, animal and vegetable, have upon his constitution, it is observed that the first is, in general, the most easily assi- milated ; that is to say, made to combine with and form part of his frame, which we might expect from the consideration that the elements of which it consists resemble more nearly the composition of his own body. And here we cannot help obsei-ving how admirably the productions of the earth are suited to the wants of man in different situations. In warm climates, vegetable food is the most abundant, and it is also the most appropriate, since the flesh of animals in large quantities would foi-m too stimulating a diet, and too much blood would be formed. On the contrary, in the frozen regions of the north, vegetables are rare, and the inhabitants subsist solely upon animal food ; a greater stimulus in cold climates being necessary to keep up the requisite warmth of the body. The Esquimaux have no vegetables whatever, subsisting entirely upon fish and flesh. In tempei-ate cli- mates, a judicious mixture of both appears to be most conducive to general health. 1735. There cannot be a doubt that the influence of food has been one of those causes that have tended to modify the human race, and that it must always possess the same power. The strength of the body and the constitution generally must be affected by the nature of the substances by which the vital principle is kept in activity; and it is difficult to calcu- late upon the degree in which the intellect may depend upon physical causes. Con- sidering the animal part of our nature, the various races of mankind must share, with all other living creatures, in those natural effects produced by climate and food, as well as by the habits and customs which depend more upon himself. All the circumstances respect- ing our domestic economy are therefore important, not merely as regards what have been denominated our comforts; but their effects are felt, and may be traced much more exten- sively ; they bear powerfully upon the general well-being and comparative happiness of society, and act, in no small degree, as moral causes. 1736. In the description we have given of the chemical principles of which the sub- stances used as food consist, we have hitherto confined ourselves to those four that are by far the principal ones, and which are never absent in animal and vegetable bodies. But besides these, there are several other elementary principles that are found, if not con- stantly necessary to the composition of the same substances, yet so generally, though, in a very small proportion, that they cannot remain unnoticed. 1737. Phosphorus exists in tlie state of pliosplioric .icid, which is joined to lime, forming phosphate of lime, in all honos ; and Dr. Front states that the use of a minute portion of phosphorus, discovered by analysis in the yolk of egg, is to supply this element to the bones of the young chick. Phosphorus is likewise found ia various parts of animal bodies, and particularly in iisii. It occurs also in many vegetables. 1738. Sulphur is found in both animals and vegetables, though in minute proportions. It is manifest in the eggs by the blackening of a silver spoon ; and the sulphuretted hydrogen disengaged from putrefying animal matter proves the original existence of sulphur in thera. 1739. Chlorine is one of the ingredients of common salt, which is compounded of chlorine and sodium ; both these elements are taken with our food, and it is thought are partly retained, particul.arly in the blood. 1740. Potassium, or the base of potash, must likewise be, in a small degree, a constituent of many animal bodies ; and exists in considerable quantity in vegetables, as will be explained in the chapter " On Uic Laimdry." 1741. Lime, which is an oxide of calcium, forms, with phosphorus, the frame-work of bones, and, for this purpose, must b? supplied by our food, in which it exists in very minute quantities. 1742. Iron. A minute quantity of this metal, in the state of oxide, is detected ia most animal and vegeta- ble substances upon an accurate analysis; hence it enters into our food. 1743. IViilcr is not Itself an element, but is composed of hydrogen and oxygen chemically combined. It i.s essential to all the living functions, .ind constitutes a large portion of the substance of living bodies, as well as of their food and drink. Water exists in .animals and vegetables, not only in its ordinary moist state, but likewise so united to other substances as to lose its usual properties. For instance, sugar .ind gum consist of carbon united to the elements of water, and yet these are solids from which the water cannot Iw separated without decomposing the whole ; and the same is the case with respect to many other subst.ances. Hut w.iter in its moist state is necessary to manv of the component parts in the animal economy, as the blood, the gastric juice, and all the secretions ; wa'ter forms, perhaps, the natural drink of all anim.ils, being necessary to supply the wjiste of this principle. As the blood contiuns 80 per cent, of w.ater, and the flesh .about 75 per cent., it has been c.ilcul.ated th.at of the entire human body, three-fourths of its weight consist of water, iot the properties of various kliuls of water, sec Book VIII. Chap. I., " On Water," i