800 Book X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. should preserve their green colour, copper has actually been put in with them expressly for this purpose ; but we trust only by those who were unacquainted fully with its poison- ous nature. It is proper to state that directions of tliis kind nro to be found in many bool(s on cooking, as in tlic " toadies' Library," vol. ii. p. 203. " Boil tlie vinegar in a bell metal or copper pot; put it hot on your cucumbers." Now, this direction is given, because it was observed that the cucumbers were thus dyed green ; but this ellect is produced by the vinegar having corroded the metallic vessel and forming verdigris. Again, in the " Modern Cookery, or English Housewife," we have a receipt for ereentng for pickles, composed of a bit of verdigris, distilled vinegar and salt; and in Mrs. Uaffeld's " Bnglisii Housekeeper," p. 352. we arc told, that to render pickles green, they should be boiled with halfpence, and that the pickle should stand for twcntv- four hours in copper or brass pans ! When we read directions given with such extreme ignorance of tfie poisonous quality of copper, it is no wonder that we hear also of many persons being actually poisoned by the use of pickles, to say nothing of health having been injured in numberless instances, without the causes being even suspected. 4.588. In the pickles vinrle for sale, great importance is attached to their being of a good colour; and there is therefore a strong temptation to use imjjroper means for obtaining this end. As it is impossible to be cer- tain by whom, and how these are made, it appears prudent that every family should, as much as possible, make their own pickles, in order to be thoroughly acquainted with their composition. The/uliozving pickles are usually kept in the shops in London ; — Walnuts ■ Gherkins Nasturtiums Onions, white and brown Artichokes Jerusalem ditto Red cabbage Cauliflowers Mushrooms Beet root French beans Barberries Green capsicums Red ditto Radish pods Uock samphire Capers Red Chillies. English Ditto, West Indian Horse radish Engiisli mixed pickles West Indian ditto Ditto, bird pepper Sour krout Love apples Piccalilly, after the Indian manner French olives Spanish ditto Bombay mangoes Melon ditto Garlic Eschalots Cucumbers Capsicums. Sect. VI. PRESERVING BY SPIRITS. 4589.. Spirits preserve animal and vegetable substances, upon the same principle as vinegar; namely, by coagulating the albumen, which is the first to putrefy; but it is seldom or never employed for the preservation of animal food, as it generally renders it hard and indigestible. Fruits are preserved in brandy or other strong spirits. Those which are usually so preserved are plums, apricots, cherries, or peaches. They should be gathered before they are perfectly ripe, and soaked for some hours in very hard water to make them firm. , As the moisture of the fruit weakens the spirit, it ought to be strong, and five ounces of sugar should be added to each quart of spirit Olive oil.is used for preserving a few vegetables, as truffles ; the jars should be closely luted to prevent access of air. Sect. VII. PRESERVING FRUIT AND VEGETABLES BY MEANS OF SUGAR. 4590. Before sugar was in use, honey was employed to preserve many vegetable pro- ductions, though this substance has now given way to the juice of the sugar-cane. Various fruits, flowers, herbs, roots, and juices, when boiled with sugar or syrup, were employed in pharmacy as well as for sweetmeats ; these were called confectionx, from the Latin word conjicere, to make up. Vegetables whose virtues would be lost by drying, or by other modes, may be preserved by means of sugar for a considerable time imimpaired; the sugar preventing the natural decomposition and moulding which -would otherwise take place. This method is therefore very effectual, and its expense alone is in many cases the chief objection to its use. 4591. In the present day, such is the increase of luxury, that the confectioner forms a distinct profession, which has relieved the domestic establishment in a great measure from numerous duties which were formerly considered important and essential. The business of the professed confectioner is very complicated : it requires considerable skill and practice; and in order to exercise his trade, which comprehends the preservation of fruits in a great variety of ways, the preparation of ices and creams, and the making of cakes and ornamental devices, &c. some costly api>aratus, and a collection of tools is necessary which a private family would be unable to manage without having devoted a large portion of time to handle them with dexterity and effect. 'I'he most diificult preparations of this kind may now be purchased, if not at a cheaper rate than they can generally be made at, at least with a greater saving of time and anxiety — an arrangement which certainly leaves the mistress of a family more leisure to cultivate other branches of knowledge of more importance. Nevertheless, it is extremely useful that all who direct the tiffairs of a family should have a general knowledge of this as well as other subjects on which many of our comforts depend. But our object in this place is rather to establish some general principles in this part of the preservation of food, illustrated by some examples applicable