HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. iChap. VI. 2? I'lJiiving stables, where they were laid on edge; but now that some of equal quality are made aat Cheshunt in Hertfordshire, and other places, the Dutch are no longer brought over. An extremely white brick, used in the fronts of several churches near the metropolis, iand some of the best houses, is made at Ipswich. Highgate church presents a specimen of I them. Fire bricks, for furnaces and fire places, are of a different composition from ordinary Ibricks, as it is necessary that they should be infusible in high degrees of heat. In their I manufacture pure clays are necessary, without iron or lime. The white clay dug at ; Stourbridge is the best for the purpose; and instead of sand, the clay is mixed with ! pounded old glass pots, crucibles, or fine bricks, which are not liable to vitrify. They are s sometimes called Welsh lumps. A soft and thin red brick, capable of resisting the fire, is likewise made at Hedgerley, I near Windsor, and hence called Windsor bricks; they are used sometimes for lining (portable furnaces and similar purposes, because they can be cut to any form, which the ' Welsh lumps cannot; but they are not so durable in strong heat as the latter, which are I the only ones fit for lining grates. Hiort's bricks may be mentioned as being valuable on account of their forms for building 1 circular flues for chimneys, which are more easily cleaned than square ones ; but they are I too expensive for common use. Another kind for the same purpose, but cheaper, has been : invented by Chadley. 81. Tiles are made of clay, finer, tougher, and better prepared than that of bricks, ; and they are burned in a kiln. They are of different kinds, according to the use to which 1 they are applied. There are for roofs, plain and pan tiles, also hip and ridge tiles. Foot • tiles are used for paving ; sometimes tiles are glazed to render them more durable. 82. The manufacture of bricks is placed under the controul of the Excise; and all.bricks made in England for sale must be 8^ inches long, 2.^ inches thick, and 4 wide. Makers ■ of bricks and tiles must give notice of their intention to begin the manufacture, under a penalty of 100/. The mode in which the duty on bricks is levied is complained of as a great check to their improvement. The present duty on common bricks is 5s. lOd. per thousand. To render the tax easy of collection, the brickmaker is restricted to the above mentioned size. If he deviates in the least from these dimensions, or forms upon them any moulding, he renders himself liable to such an increase of duty as amounts to a prohibition of the article. Were it not for this, an infinity of forms of bricks might be contrived, suited to various purposes : and, when we consider the durability of the material, and the facility with which it may be moulded into any required form, it is much to be regretted that means are not found for preserving the revenue without depriving the public of the advantages which might be derived from the inventions of architects. It is remarkable that during many ages of the architectural history of this country, from the period of the Roman occupation, to about the time of Queen Elizabeth, the use of bricks was unknown; and it is likewise remarkable, that, formerly, they were made of much better quality than at present. Even so late as a century ago, the art of moulding a fine brick into various forms to suit the purposes of architecture was carried to a high degree of perfection, as may be seen,in the beautiful red brickwork in the chimney shafts of many manor-houses, and in many other old houses, one of which remains in St. Martin's Lane, London. Excellent brickwork may likewise be seen in the conserv- atory in Kensington Gardens, and in many parts of the kingdom. The general use of stucco on the fronts of houses, though it has much improved^ their appearance, has contributed in ^many cases, where they have been built upon speculation for sale, to deteriorate the soundness of the brickwork, by enabling builders to conceal their bad bricks through covering the exterior with a coat of cement. SuBSECT. 2. — Stone. 83. The selection of stone for building requires considerable skill. Even the kinds usually mentioned as the most durable, as granite, porphyry, and basalt, are not always fit to be employed. Before using any kind of stone, the durability of which is not known, it is proper to observe what effect exposure to the weather for some years, and the frost of winter, have had upon it. No chemical analysis alone can give the required information on this point. Granite, when of the best kind, is extremely durable, though difficult to work to a good face. It is nevertheless much employed in public works, and in some places, as Aberdeen, where it is very plentiful, all the private houses are constructed with it. Much of the granite used in London is brought from Cornwall and Devon, but the most durable granite comes from Aberdeenshire. This is of two kinds, grey and red, the latter being the hardest. Both these take a very fine polish, and splendid examples of polished granite are produced in Aberdeen^ of which specimens are occasionally brought to Loudon, both of