ON MAKING BREAD. Book IX. 770 ■with which it makes a very palatable dish. The Icelanders also make it into a kind of bread; or it is powdered or ground, and the meal made into porridge, gruel, or broth, or baked as cakes : these Dr. Henderson describes as not only wholesome and nutritious, but extremely palatable. This useful plant is not confined to Iceland, but grows all over the north of Europe, and is found on the Pentland hills, the mountain of Ben Lomond, and many other parts of the Highlands of Scotland, but it does not grow to so large a size there as in Iceland. It is also found on many of the lofty mountains of Europe where the temperature is low, as the Alps, Pyrenees, Jura, &c. From its esculent qualities, its use has been recom- mended in times of scarcity. If it is boiled for a quarter of an hour after the bitter prin- ciple is extracted, it may be dried and will keep for any length of time. U is, however, not sufficiently plentiful in this country to be much regarded as an article of food; but it is thought to liave some tonic power, .ind to be proper for convalescents. Dr. A. T. Thomson observes, that tliis Duality depends on the bitter principle contained in it; consequently when employed as a tonic, the bitter sliould not be wholly removed. ■ 4401. Tlie starch procured from the horse chesnut has been employed successfully in Germany for many of the purposes of flour. 4'102. Bread from the bark of the pine. From the civilised state in which we now live, we can form but faint ideas of the necessitous situation under which many of the inhabitants of the globe exist, and in com- parison of whom our poorest cottagers may be considered in a state of ease. Von Bush informs us that in the rigorous and unfertile climates of Norway and Lapland, necessity obliges the inhabitants to make use of the inner bark of the common Scotch flr (Phius sylvcstris) for food. In the spring season they cut dow n the older trees, and, stripping off the bark, collect the soft white succulent interior part, which in the early time of the year has a sweet milky juice in it, and is the new layer of wood in an incipient state; when they have occasion to use it, they dry this at the iire, or bake it in an oven, till it becomes brittle, then beat it and grind it into meal, and after steeping tlie farinaceous part or flour in warm water to take off the resinous taste, they mix it with a small portion of oats, or moss, and make it into thin cakes, about an inch thick, which are baked for use. The poor inhabitants are sometimes constrained to live upon this disagreeable food for a great part of the year. We learn from the same authority, that " in summer the Laplanders scarcely eat anything but fish from the fresh-water lakes, and drink with great eagerness the water in which the fish has been boiled. In winter they must put up with dried fish, and the innermost bark of the fir, which they strip off in summer, divide it in long strips, .md hang them in their dwellings to dry for winter stores. When used, these strips of bark are minced in small pieces along with rein-deer tallow, and boiled together for several hours with water, till they form a thick broth." Dr. Prout suggests with respect to this process, that during the long boiling, the lignin or woody fibre may perhaps combine with the water, so as to form a kind of starch, which is soluble in the stomach ; but the precise nature of the change is not yet understood. The ^oung shoots of the fir stripped of their leaves, just as they begin to appear in the spring, are sought for with avidity by the children, and are very wholesome, forming an agreeable salad; these are also stored in winter for the rein-deer. In the same countries, also, they dry the root of the water dragon ( Culla palustris), grind it to flour, and mix it with the above. The inner bark of the elm and of other trees has been employed in the same manner. 4403. The seeds of the stone pine, being farinaceous, are eaten in some parts bordering the Mediterranean ; and likewise those of tlie gigantic pine discovered by Douglas in the west part of North America. The in- habitants of Australia, likewise, bruise and eat the seeds of the screw pine, {Pa?idanus spiraliSt Brown), and of several cone-bearing pines, but these do not form a very nutritive food. 4404. The roots of various species o//er» are used as food indifferent parts of the world. Those of the Pleris, the common fern of tliis country, are ground to powder, mixed with barley meal, and boiled, by the poor inhabitants of the Canary Islands ; but it is a very coarse food. Another kind, the Cyathea is much su- perior, has soft and pulpy roots, and affording a substance not unlike sago, is eaten by the New Zealanders. Tlie Pteris esculenta of Australia, which much resembles the common English fern, has roots which contain a good deal of farinaceous matter, but though these form in some places the principal food of the natives, they are very disagreeable, being mixed with much woody matter. A rem,irkable fern (Angioptcris erecta) grows in the Society Islands the roots of which weigh fourteen pounds and jire used by the natives as food. 4405. Bread made from wood —Professor Autenricth of Tubingen has shown by a series of careful experi- ments, that it is possible to make a palatable and nutritious bread from the dry^ligneous part of wood by proper management. The following is his process, as wc find it stated by Dr. Front in the Philosophical Transactions, 1827: —" In the first place everything that was soluble in water was removed by frequent ma- ceration and boiling. The wood was then reduced to a minute state of division, that is to say, not merely into fine fibres, but actual powder; and after being repeatedly subjected to the heat of an oven, was ground m the manner of corn. Wood thus prepared, according to the author, acquires the taste .md smell of corn-flour. It is, however, never very white, but always of a yellowish colour. It also agrees with corn-flour in this respect, that it does not ferment without tlic addition of leaven, and in this case some leaven of corn-flour is found to answer best. With this it makes a perfectly uniform and spongy hre.id, and when it is thoroughly baked, and has much crust, it has a much better taste of bread, than what is in times of scarcity, prepared from the bran and husks of corn. Wood flour, also, boiled in water, forms a thick, tough, trembling jelly, like that of wheat starch, and which is very nutritious." The following details respecting this extraordinary process are.idded in the Quarterly Review :—" To m.ake wood flour in perfection, according to Professor Autenricth, the wooil, after being thoroughly stripped of its bark, is to be sawed transversely into disks of .ibout an inch in di.imeter; the sawdust is to be preserved, and the disks are to be beaten to fibres in a pounding mill. The fibres and sawdust, mixed together, are next to be deprived of everything harsh and bitter which is soluble in water, by boiling them, where fuel is abundant, or by subjecting them for a longer time to the .action of cold water, which is easily done by enclosing them in a strong sack, which they only half fill, and beating the sack with a stick, or treading with the feet in a rivulet. The whole is then to be completely dried, either in the sun or by the Are, and repeatedly ground in a flour mill. The ground wood is next baked into sm.ill flat cakes, with water rendered slightly mucilaginous by the addition of some decoction of linseed, m.dlow stalks and leaves, lime-tree bark, or .any other such subst.mcc. Professor Autenrleth prefers marsh-mallow roots, of which one ounce renders eighteen quarts of water sulfi- cicntly mucilaginous, and these serve to form four pounds and a half of wood flour into cakes. These cakes are baked until they are brown on the surface. After this they are broken to nieces, and .ig.iin ground, until the flour pass through a fine bnultiiig cloth ; and upon the fineness of the llour its fitness to make bread depends. The flour of a hard wood, such as beech, requires the process of baking and grinding to be repeated. Wood flour does not ferment so readily as wheatcn flour, but the Professor found fifteen pounds of bircli wood flour, with three pounds of sour wheaten leaven, and two pounds of wheat flour, mixed up with eight mea- sures of new milk, yielded thirty-six pounds of very good bread. Professor Autenrielh tried the nutritive properties of wood flour, in the first instance, upon a young dog ; afterwards he fed two pigs upon it; and then taking courage from the success of the experimeut, ho attacked it himself. His family party, he says,