ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 254 contrivance now much used for writing on, caUed a JDevonport, from the name of the Fig. 345. inventor. It consists of a deslc placed upon a pedestal filled with drawers. The desk is of the same width and depth as the pedestal; but is made to slide forward, when to be written upon, in the manner shown in the wood-cut, to give room for the knees. A sliding shelf may draw out at the side, to hold papers or other things ; and over that is an inkstand that turns out and shuts in by a hinge at one end. The desk is covered with leather, and has a fence round the top ; the drawers are placed at the end instead of the front, for the convenience of being got at when one is writing. For those who wish to stand while they write, a desk is made as in y?sf. 346.; or in a less Fig. ■Mli. Fig. 347. Fig 348. expensive form, as in Jig. 347., which is a what not, with a rising flap. Fig. 348. is a writing stand for a lady's boudoir. The small writing desks to place on a common table, fig. 349., are too well known to need description. Care should be taken to choose a proper situation for writing tables or desks, with respect to the light, which should come in from the left. 1145. 77(6 preservation and arrangement of papers is an affair of great importance, which, when neglected, often occasion great trouble and anx- iety, and which might be obviated by a little method. 1146. Bumford or pamphlet cases, fig. 350., are extremely convenient for liolding papers, as they may be placed on shelves like books, and labelled on the back. They are usually procured from the bookbinder, are sometimes made of pasteboard, and bound to look like books ; but a cheaper kind, quite as good, is made of thin wood. A cheap substitute may be easily made by small portfolios, with linen or cotton guards to keep out the dust. Jicccipt.i are best fixed on the leaves of a blank paper book with a little gum, exactly in the order in which they are received, instead of tying them up in bundles, as they often are, in which it is diflScult to find one. The drawers of a library table afford places for arranging papers, or for keeping them