ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. 102 Book IL ginal bulk, and rendered so compact as to approach, the properties of coal. This method has been for some time practised in France, and likewise in Ireland. 450. Charred peat. The smoke of peat being exceedingly acrid and disagreeable, it is in some countries charred before it is used as fuel. The Dutch, who use a great deal of peat, char what they put into the pans with which they keep their feet warm at home and at church. It is first burned in the kitchen, and when it is red hot, they take it off the fire, and stifle it in an earthen pot by covering it up with a wet cloth. This charred peat they also use for cooking, as the French do the charcoal of wood in stoves, or cast iron kettles. When peat has been treated in this manner, it is found to contain 40 per cent, of charcoal, and is sufficiently strong as a fuel to be employed in smelting works. But it possesses one inconvenience : if laid in a heap, it is apt to take fire of itself, on which account it is forbidden to keep a store of it in towns. A very simple process for charring peat is given in the Farmer's Mag., vol. xvii. " Take a dozen or fifteen peats, and put them upon the top of the kitchen fire, upon edge : they will soon draw up the coal fire, and become red hot in a short time: after being turned about once or twice, and done with smoking, they are charred, and may be removed to the stores: if more is wanted, put on another supply of peat, and manage it as above." By this plan a supply of the best charred peat may be obtained, while at the same time the kitchen fire is kept up. This charred peat, when burned, is free from smoke and sulphureous vapours, and is much fitter for warming beds than coal, which always has some sulphur : the charred peat gives out no smell; but it is to be observed that it has all the dangerous effects of charcoal which we have described. Sect. VI. PREPARED FtlEL. 451. In England, we are so accustomed to a good coal fire, that we do not perceive that inelegance in its appearance, which has sometimes struck those who have been used to burn wood. Count Rumford, in one of his early essays, observes that " nothing surely was ever more dirty, inelegant, and disgusting, than a common coal fire." Much of this, however, it must be confessed, is now done away with amongst us, by the neatness of the grates in which the fuel is burned, and the great care which is taken to keep our fire-sides clean. No doubt improvements may still be made by a careful selection of the kind of coals ; and by these being broken nearly to certain sizes, and mixed judiciously with a proper proportion of smaller, which is separated by screens. 452. In countries where fuel is scarce and dear, attempts are made to cause what they have, to go as far as possible. In several parts of Germany and Flanders, particularly in the Duchies of Juliers and Bergen, where coals are used as fuel, though not plentiful, and of an inferior quality, they are always prepared before they are burned. They are pounded to powder, mixed up with an equal weight of clay, and a sufficient quantity of water to form the whole into a mass which is kneaded together and formed into square cakes, which are afterwards well dried, and kept in a dry place for use ; and it has been found by long experience that the expense attending this preparation is amply repaid by the improvement of the fuel. The coals thus mixed with clay, not only burn longer, but give much more heat than when they are burnt in their crude state. But in England, where coals are abundant and labour is dear, we cannot expect that much pains will be taken on this subject for the mere purpose of economy : probably its complete study will be reserved for posterity, when our coal-fields begin to be exhausted. Nevertheless, attempts have been made to produce here a better or a more economical fuel than coal ; and several patents have been taken out for this purpose. The mixture ol small coal with clay has been tried, and formed into square pieces ; but though those burn very well and give out much heat, they are objectionable, from the large quantity of ashes which they necessarily leave. On visiting the coal districts, it is impossible not to see with regret enormous quantities of small coal, called slack, lying near the coal shiifts, exposed to the weather and totally neglected: one might suppose that it was poswble to convert this to some useful purpose, perhaps to make a cheap fuel for various purposes ; and the writer of this article, in his " Lectures on Geology," in 1827, at Birmingham, Dudley, and the environs, pointed out distinctly the neglect of this material, and suggested modes in which it might be rendered available as fuel. A variety of mixtures have since been tried, of small coal with clay, bitumen, tanner's waste, peat, saw-dust, and other inflammable substances. Some of them promise to be . advantageous, particularly in steam-engines for navigation. 453. Cow dung is used as a fuel in many parts of the world ; even in some parts of Britain, where better fuel is scarce, and the people very poor. 'When thoroughly dried it burns slowly, forming a remarkable contrast" to thorns atid furze. Dr. Clarke, in his Travels, informs us, that the common fuel used by the inhabitants of Egypt is prepared