1120 CARRIAGES. Book XXIIt which causes the driver to turn with the fore part of the carriage, thus having more comniaud of the horses; whereas, in the usual construction, in whicli tlie driver re- mains in the same position while his horses are turning, he is sometimes almost dragged off. These principles, which are solid and just, are applied by the inventor to all sorts of four-wheeled vehicles, fi-om the coach to the waggon. CHAP. V. TWO-WHEELED CAKRIAGES. 6662. The simplest two-wheeled vehicle is the common cart; this, made lighter and more elegant, and put on some kind of springs, constitutes the spring cart, the buggy, and chair. With the body suspended, and put upon good springs, it has been improved into the one-horse chaise. The gig, the cabriolet, the Dennet, the Tilbury, and Stanhope, are all varieties or improvements upon this. For lightness and simplicity, two-wheeled car- riages are preferable ; their comparative less cost, their being drawn by one horse, and consequently their economy, are the principal reasons for their being used. But they are not so agreeable to ride in as phaetons, owing to their unpleasant motion; neither are they so safe as four-wheeled carriages, because if the shafts give way the body falls to the ground with the passengers, who are precipitated forward with great violence ; they are also more difficult to turn than those carriages that have two axles, one of them movable. Those which are entirely open, without any kind of head, though light and well calculated for rapid travelling with a single horse, are inconvenient in rainy and cold weather, and the head, when it is up, is apt to be much affected by strong wind, and is not a complete security from the rain. Nevertheless, with all these and other drawbacks, they possess advantages sufficient to be very generally in use. Of two- wheeled carriages, some are suspended by braces and C springs, and others have the bodies placed upon springs beneath the shafts; occasionally also under-springs can be used. 6663. The shafts are the long side framings of two-wheeled carriages which extend on each side of the horse, and answer the same purpose as a pole in a four-wheeled carriage, to draw and turn the vehicle by. As a considerable portion of the weight rests upon the shafts, it is essential that they are sufficiently strong, since in breaking the body must fall forward and throw out the sitters ; but it is likewise proper that they shall have elasticity as well as the toughness requisite to render very great thickness not necessary. Ash is found upon the whole to be the best material for shafts, and they are strengthened by iron plates on the under side. Lance wood, obtained from the West Indies, has been much employed for shafts, on account of its great elasticity, which enables it to be much lighter than those of ash ; but though valuable on account of its elasticity, it is a brittle wood ; and being less to be depended upon than ash, it is much less used. It is strengthened by whalebone on the bottom, its elasticity preventing the use of iron. 6664. Celerity of motion being one of the most desirable qualities in two-wheeled carriages, the great art is to build as light as possible, yet so as to be sufficiently strong. Ash is the timber usually employed ; the form depends much upon fashion. Very light carriages are never so easy to ride in as heavy ones, even when the springs are proportionally adjusted, for the concussion of a rough road takes more effect on a light carriage than it does on a heavy one. Gigs, and other two-wheeled carriages to be used in the country, should have their axles sufficiently long for the wheels to fall into the cart ruts, and ad- ditional strength is required. 6665. Cabriolet, Jig. 880.—" This," Mr. Adams observes, "is, in reality, a regeneration of the old one-horse chaise in a more elegant form, which has been borrowed, together with its name, from the French; and, as is common in most such cases, it has been improved upon. Tlie form of its body, which is its characteristic feature, resembles that of the nautilus shell, and it has a head to raise up in bad weather, with curtains to draw in front, or it may be closed in by a German shutter. The knee-flap, instead of being a piece of flexible leather, as in the apron of the old one-horse chaise, is stretched tightly across a frame, which answers better." Though an elegant vehicle, it is not very safe when moving at a rapid rate. The body is hung on C springs, and braces behind, and it has a double elbow, or grasshopper spring beneath, resting on the axle; besides these, there are two small brackets affixed beneath the shafts, to take two straight springs which are bolted to the body. It is a convenient carriage for a single man to ride about town in, as it