Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. 823 Fig 643 4686. The American oven. Jig. 643., is an improvement on the Dutch. By means of a bottom slanting upwards, and the top slanting down-wards, the reflection of heat is still stronger. In this case the meat, or other article, is laid in an iron tray, a, which is movable, and may be lifted out by two handles, the top moving back on hinges; beneath the false bottom is a place for warming plates. This apparatus is coming much into use, being found extremely convenient for roasting and baking bread, cakes, &c. 4687. A tin toaster, fig. 644., placed upon a stand of strong wire that hooks on the bars of a grate, and made either loose, or to slide backwards and forwards on the stand, is an apparatus extremely useful, and which may be purchased for eightpence ; not only may cheese or bread be toasted, but a mutton chop may be di-essed as well by this as by more expensive ap- paratus. Fig. 644. fig- G45. 4688. A very convenient apparatus for toasting bread and mirffi7is is reTpresented in fig. 645. It is made of tin plate, and placed on a stand before a clear fire. Fig. 646. Fig. 647, 4689. Cheese toasters are represented in fig. 646. and fig. 647. ; in the first there is only one tray for the cheese; in the second there are six small trays. Sect. III. APPARATUS FOR BROILING. 4690. The common gridiron for broiling is too well known to require any description. In broiling chops and other fat meat, the flaring made by the melting fat going into the fire is very inconvenient; and to prevent this, some gridirons have grooves in the bars, by which, when the apparatus is placed a little slanting, the liquid fat flows down into a trough at the bottom. These may be seen in daily use in some of the chop-houses near the Royal Exchange ; but except these grooves are kept extremely clean, the fat is liable to be burned, and to communicate a flavour similar to that from a frying-pan. Round bars are easier to keep clean thau square ones ; and when the gridiron is kept upon the slant, with care and attention, little fat will fall into the fire. 4691. A broiling stove (fig. 648.) made by Mr. Jeakes, Great Russell Street, London, is a great improvement. One of the difiiculties in broiling is the keeping the fire perfectly clear, to prevent the meat from being spoiled with the smoke ; this difficulty is completely obviated in a very simple manner by this contrivance. A square aperture is formed in a plate of cast-iron, a b, which is placed upon brickwork, or forms part of an ii-on body ; immediately below this aperture a pit is formed in the brickwork, or the iron for the fire, having a flue leading from it, at first horizontally, and then upwards, terminating in the flue of the chimney. Sliding doors, c, c, are likewise provided in front, opening into the fire-place. When these doors are shut, and coals or coke are lighted in this pit or fire-place, the air will draw downwardn, to feed the fire, through the aperture in the large