CONFECTIONERY FOR DESSERTS, ETC. 936 Book XV. will^°e broVp'n'in;,'j'i'fi ^ '15" ''Jil"'' "ell-metal saucepan, and be wannpd In the .yrup. not boUed, or they iiro d'sfigured. When cool, they are ready for the compotler. time in mli? w^?!'?""i^'.r Jl""'' halves, and core, some apples; and after letting them lie for a short thmiTn tl P rnmt '.• " ""^ P"' "J''"!'' """" "11 they are soft; then place beXs Lmt»?w??v 1' "^-"^ ""^ ''"■"P <"'<"■ Kemember that with apples the flavour of lemon- fiT.,in1,f„ ?f oi^ compote may be improved by boiling in the syrup some of the apple to a jelly. 5, ' ° pouring It over the halves prepared as above directed. i-i- i }. n,„ ^f;. vfu^^ compoto. —Peel either some China or St. Michael's oranges, cut them in slices, and remove ThiFlPo J t ■ ""^ "\'li.em. Boil some syrup, but do not pour it over the sliced oranges tiU it is cold, inis compote requires no boiling. CHAP. m. CONFECTS FOR DESSERTS AND ROUTS. Sect. I. DEY CONFECTS. < 5471. Under this head we shall only include fruit in candy, fruit in pastes, fruit in biscuits. SuBSECT. 1. — Candied Fruits, 5472. Apricots, cherries, greengages, barberries, oranges, and any other fruits that have been previously preserved in syrup, may be candied by following the directions now given. For candying there must be provided two square boxes ; one made of tin, about twelve inches long, eight inches wide, and about three or four inches deep. At one corner of this box there must be a hole and pipe, through which overflowings of syrup may pass ofiF, but which must be corked up while the fruit is in the oven. The other box must be made entirely of wire, and somewhat smaller than the other; to this last there must also be a cover. The fruit which is to be candied is placed in layers one above another, on wire frames, and when the wire box is completely filled, the cover is put on to keep the contents in place, and the box is placed within the tin box, and put into an oven moderately heated. The second case must also be covered closely before it is put into the oven. The mode of candying is by boiling syrup to what is termed the "little blow." (See Book X. Chap. IV. Sect. VIII., " Preserving by Syrup.") Let a pint of syrup be boiled to this degree. While cooling, the surface of the syrup will be covered with candy, which, as it forms must be skimmed off, and poured in among the layers of fruit after they are placed in the wire box. When the whole of the syrup has been thus used, then the box containing the fruit must be covered closely, put into the oven, and suffered to remain in it for twelve hours. When taken out, the wire case must be placed so as to allow all the syrup which has not candied to pass away. As soon as the moisture dis- appears, the fruit must be taken out with great care, and put into tin boxes, to be kept dry imtil wanted. 5473. Orange chips are prepared from the parings of Seville oranges, and in the same way as directed in the preceding receipt for cjindying oriinge and lemon-peel. 5474. Candied ginger. — Put into a preserving pan one ounce of flnely-grated ginger, one pound of sifted loaf sugar, and no more water than enough to dissolve the sugar. Put the pan over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil. Add another pound of finely-sifted sugar, stirring it in till it thickens, then drop it in cakei or plates, and dry them in a slow oven ; .when done they will be hard, brittle, and white. SuBSECT. 2.—Fruits in Paste. When the pulp of any fruit is boiled to such a consistence as to keep in the form given to it, it is called " paste;" and, made up in different forms, it adds variety to desserts at seasons when many fresh fruits are not to be had. 5475. Apple paste Apples, boiled till soft, peeled, and passed through a hair-sieve, to be formed into " paste," must be slowly boiled in syrup until it is perceived to thicken; it Is then ready to be put into moulds', or dropped on plates as cakes. The plates and moulds must then be put into a slow oven, and left in it for twenty-four hours, or longer, if the pulp is not sullicicntly dried to turn out of the moulds, or to cut into rings and circles, or into stringlets by wliich knots may be formed. 6476. Apricot paste. Boll a dozen ripe apricots for two or three minutes, p,iss them through a hair sieve, and reduce the pulp they render, by boiling it for some time before adding the syrup to it. Reniombcr, it must be stirred the whole time. For every pound of pulp weigh h.ilf a pound of sugar, which must be clixrifiert and boiled to " a feather " (sec " Preserving by -Syrup," Book X. Chap. IV. Sect. VIII.) before the pulp is added to it. The pulp and sugar must not be boiled together for more than a mmute, when the moulds must be lilled and the paste dried, as before directed, in a slow oven for twenty-four hours. Wooden moulds lined with loose paper answer the best for these p.istes. When the paper Is to be taken on, it must be wetted in a little warm water. , , , j ■ 5477. Clreengagc paste. — Boil greengages to a jam witlioul sugar, pass them through the sieve, and again reduce them in the preserving pan over the fire. To every pound of pulp, weigh a pound of sugar; clarify