457 Chap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. vegetables, but which probably were not always essential constituents. Wood-ashes, from the alkali they contain, are often employed for the same purposes as soap. 2414. Silica, or the e.irth of Bints, is a substance which one would not expect to meet with as a necessary ingredient in plants, and yet a whole tribe of vegetables has a varnish of siliceous matter on the outside of theirstems ; the most remarkable of these is the bamboo; the shiningpolish of this plant proceeds from a thin coating of pure silex, and small concretions of siliceous mjitter are often formed in the joints of the stems. The greater number of the grasses, .and the various species of corn plants, have an external coating of this substance, which nature h.as the power of dissolving and converting into a varnish. The existence of this flinty epidermis in the stalks of corn is easily shown by the blowpipe, which fuses it into a minute globule of glass. Silica likew ise exists in many plants in minute quantities, but in combination with potash, soda, or lime, and appears on their analysis. 241 ). Jjt-sirlfs Ihi'se, sevcrnl other elementary substances are found in vegetables on analysis in minute pro- portion, .is phosphorus, sulphur, lime, iron. All vegetables contain a large proportion of water. Indeed the greater accuracy with which organic matter is now analysed by experienced chemists, compared with what was the case only a few years back, has very much increased the number of substances that enter into the composi- tion of vegetables in very small qu.antities, and have no doubt their effect in the production of their several pro- perties; but to enter into all the details necessary to exhibit this increased complicacy of constitution would render our work unintelligible to the grciter number of our readers, and depart from the simplicity which we are desirous of retaining by confining ourselves to what belongs more particularly to domestic economy. Those who are desirous of following up all the discoveries of modern analysts should consult their late pub- lications CHAP. vm. DESCRIPTION OF THE VEGETABLES AND FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Sect. T. introduction. 2416. One of the principal advantages resulting to Europe from exploring distant regions has been the introduction of numerous useful vegetables and fruits, which are at present cidtivated with much success. Whatever horticulture may have been practised in Britain by the Romans, while they had possession of this island, must have been- nearly, if not wholly, lost during the disturbed state of several succeeding centuries ; and it is, indeed, remarkable, surrounded as we are with abundance of every kind of useful fruit and vegetable that our climate will admit of, and which many suppose to be natural to the soil, to find that the introduction of by far the greatest number date no farther back than the reign of Henry VIII. The edible wild plants indigenous in this island are mostly of small growth and harsh taste; and to the skill of the gardener we owe almost all those which at present form valuable articles of diet. 2417. In this Chapter we propose to give a general description of aU the vegeta'bles and fruits used at present as food in the British isles ; but the manner of their production or cultivation will be found in works on Gardening and Agriculture. 2418. In our arrangement we shall adopt the method followed by Mr. Loudon in his " Encyclopa:dia of Gardening," to which we are obliged for many useful facts : — 1. The Cabbage tribe; 2. Leguminous vegetables ; 3. Esculent roots ; 4. Spinaceous plants ; 5. Alliaceous plants, or the onion tribe ; 6. Asparaginous plants, or the asparagus tribe; 7. Acetaceous plants, or salads; 8. Pot-herbs and garnishings ; 9. Sweet herbs; 10. Plants used in tarts, confectionery, and domestic medicine ; 11. Plants used as pre- serves and pickles; 12. Edible indigenous plants not cultivated; 13. Poisonous plants; 14. Edible fungi; 15. Edible marme plants. Sect. II. CABBAGE TRIBE. SuBSECT. 1. — General Account of the Cabbage Tribe. 2419. The cabbage tribe belongs to the numerous botanical family of the Cruci/erce, or, as Professor Burnett has named them, Brassicacece, some of which are found as weeds in every field ; and to one of them, by means of cultivation, we are indebted for all the varieties at present in use. 2420. 77ie original wild plant, called sea-coleivort {Brassica oleracea, Linn.), may be seen growing on the cliffs in various parts of the south coast of England, as at Dover and Penzance; and no one unacquainted with the subject would suspect that it had been the parent of so important and numerous a progeny. It is there seen as a plant of scanty leaves, scarcely weighing altogether half an ounce ; and, though it may be eaten, it is salt, and not very tender. It is not supposed, however, that all our cabbages, originating from this wild plant, have been the result of English gardening only. This plant is very