CChap. II. OF ANIMAL FOOD. ' 363 'alenree of temperature, it is reduced to a firm transparent body. When solid, it ap- raroaches nearly to the nature of fibrin, and it acquires some flavour by coagulation, for im its liquid state it has little or none. Albuminous liquids have always a little free soda, and the white of egg contains also a small quantity of sulphur, the latter of which is the -ause of its blackening a silver spoon. Dr. Bostocii has shown that when one part of dry iilbumen is dissolved in nme parts of water, the solution coagulates by heat, and becomes ^ -.olid; but if the albumen amount only to Vj of the liquid, though it coagulates in some jleo-re'e, yet it does not do so completely, but the liquid may be poured from one vessel to iiinother. When one part of albumen is dissolved in 1000 parts of water, the solution r-jeconies cloudy when heated. Uncoagulated albumen soon putrefies, except it be dried; lout it keeps longer when coagulated; hence cooked meat and eggs keep longer than K.vhen raw. The presence of albumen in a solution, though not in quantity sufficient to : ;oagulate by heat, may be ascertained by putting in a drop of the saturated solution of .corrosive sublimate: if the water contain only ^ part of albumen, a cloudiness will ijppear. It can fonn a soap with alkali. 1768. Fluids are often clarified by means of albumen, through its property of coagulation. When any kind of it, as white of eggs, or the serum of blood, is put into a liquid that is iiinuddy from substances suspended in it, on boiling the liquid the albumen coagulates i:in a flocculent manner, and, entangling with it the impurities, rises with them to the ■uurface as a scum, or sinks to the bottom, according to their weight. 1769. Albumen, when analysed, is found to contain in 100 parts, carbon, SO'OO ; hydrogen, :-'-78 ; oxygen, 26-67 ; n^rogen, 15-55. 1770. Animal oil.— Under this head is iiicluded every species of fatty matter in animals; land it exists in a state more or less fluid, or approaching to solidity, in various animals rind in various parts of their bodies. Some varieties, as suet, have considerable solidity, land others, as fish oil, are mostly in a liquid state. Carbon and hydrogen, with a very fiiittle oxygen, form the elements of pure oil, without any nitrogen, in which this differs fnrom the rest of the animal principles. Indeed, from analysis, it appears that animal oil iss very analogous to the fixed vegetable oils, both in composition and properties. The iiaature of the various animal oils has been more particularly considered when treating of ■■' Artificial Light." See also " Fat," Subsect. 8. 1771. Osmazome. — This substance is procured from an extract of meat; it was dis- covered by Thouvenet, and is supposed to be the principle that gives the peculiar flavour tco meat when roasted, or in soups. Berzelius, however, does not admit it to be a distinct porinciple, and thinks that it is formed during the culinary process. When procured separate and pure, it has a brownish yellow colour, with the taste and odour of soup. It iss most abundantly developed in the outside of roasted meat. 1772. Casein. — Casein abounds in the curd of milk coagulated by means of rennet, of viwhich cheese is made. It is vei'y analogous to albumen, although now considered as a saeparate proximate principle. (See " jVtilk.") Casein is very easy of digestion, and is Tvery nutritive. Having now described those proximate principles into which all the parts of animals are rcesolvable without final decomposition taking place, we proceed to state which of these pprinciples, and in what proportion, the various parts of animals are composed of. StmsECT. 3. — Skin. 1773. All animals have an exterior covering to protect them from the sun'ounding eblements, as well as to perform other functions. In the lowest classes this covering is fifrequently hard and crustaceous; but in the higher classes, it is usually soft and pliable, lln man, as well as in the ordinary quadrupeds used among us as food, it is composed of itwo parts ; a thin elastic layer on the outside, called the epidermis or cuticle, and a much tlhicker layer beneath, called the cutis or true skin. 11 1774. T7ic c(i</c/c is that part which is raised in blisters, and is easily separated from "'the cutis by maceration in hot water. It is insoluble in cold water, and is considered to a modification of albumen. It has little tenacity, and is destitute of blood-vessels, I i ves, and fibres ; consequently, has no sensibility. It is dissolved by alkalies and lime. I In some of the inferior classes of animals it tonsists of scales or plates, and in others it is I extremely soft and smooth, almost resembling mucus. 1775. The cutis or true skin, in quadrupeds, is a thick dense membrane, composed of liBbres closely interwoven, and disposed in different directions like the texture of a hat ; tithe interstices being filled up with gelatine, of which the principal part consists. It is "obviously organised, and is filled with innumerable blood-vessels and nerves, which occa- ision its extreme sensibility when cut. Common glue is made by boiling skins, in which process the gelatinous part is extracted. IThose skins that are the most flexible, as that of the eel, dissolve the most readily, and att'ord the greatest quantity of gelatine, but make the weakest glue.