Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 789 3 E .-5 .ind gsitie; soiiiis. brntlis, and vegetables; creams and custards. Of a quantity taken by Captain Nash to India not one canister was spoiled, and one which he brought back contained, after two years, beef in the highest state of perfection and preservation, and after having been carried upwards of 35,000 miles in the warmest climates. This method has been adopted by the commissioners for victualling the navy, who, having examined some meat so preserved for four years during voyages in the Mediterranean and to America, found it as sound, sweet, and fresh, as if it had been boiled only the d.ay before. 4.M3. Captain Hall gives his testimony as follows: " 1 can answer for the perfect preservation of a great number of cases which were in my possession during the voyage to China. I had 88/. worth, and not one failure. At that time milk was preserved in bottles corked; but tin cases have been substituted with very great effect. It is really astonishing how excellent the milk is ; .and, indeed, everything preserved in this way is good. You must, on examining the list of prices, bear in mind, that meat thus preserved cn/s nothing, nor drinks ; is not apt to get the rot or to die : does not tumble overboard, nor get its legs broken, or its flesh torn oil' its bones by knocking about on the decks of a ship in bad weather ; it takes no care in the keeping; it is always ready ; may be eaten hot or cold ; and enables you to toss into the boat, in a minute, as many days' cooked provisions as you choose ; it is not exposed to the vicissitudes of markets ; nor is it scourged up to a monstrous price (as at St. Helena) because there is no alternative. Besides these advantages, it enables one to indulge in a number of luxuries which no care or expense could procure." 4.5U. CMtsirtfring the great siiperiorifij of M. ApperVs method of preserving food to all others before his time, and likewise that there may be many occasions in which it may be practised with great advantage, we shall here give the principal directions which he has published, taken from the original work, in which there are many useful pr.actical hints connected with the details of his process. The use of tin canisters is an improvement by Messrs. Donkin ; M. Appert has employed glass and earthenware vessels. Messrs. Donkin also have taken care to exclude the air from the interior of the vessels as much .as possible by leaving a small aperture in the lid of the canister, through which the expanded air escapes during the last boiling, rendering the inside nearly a vacuum, a circumstance which does not appear to have occurred to M. Appert. As his methods, however, have rather more simplicity, and though less perfect, yet appear to have answered in general, requiring no tin catiisters, which cannot always be so easily procured as bottles and jars, an account of his processes should be generally kut»wn. 4.T1.5. M. Ap/JerC's method oj preserving boiled beej, mutton, or other meat. — The meat is first put into a pot to boil in the ordinary way ; when three-quarters done, half the meat is t.aken out, and the other half is boiled into a strong broth, which is strained and part put into a bottle to he preserved. The other half of the meat is put into another bottle, which is struck against a cushion on a table, to shake down the materials, and the bottle is filled up with some of the broth that had been made. Both bottles are then securely corked and luted in the manner that will be afterwards described, and they are placed in a boiler which is filled up with cold water as far as the rims of the bottles or jars. A lid is now put on the boiler, and fire being applied, the w,ater is made to boil, and is kept up at that heat as long as the particular substances require to be thoroughly done, when the fire is put out; in half an hour the water is drawn off by a cock ; in another half an hour the lid of the boiler is to be removed ; and in one or two hours more, the bottles or jars may be taken out, and placed upon shelves in a cool place. ^.'ilti. We shall now describe the methods which he employed to secure his bottles so as to be air-tight pre- viously to their being placed in the boiling water, as mentioned above. As the complete exclusion of the external air from his bottles is essential to the success of the process, his first care is to have the bottles or jars quite sound, and as wide mouthed as the corks would allow. He employed no corks but those of the very first ((uality, and when he hatl bottles made on purpose, he had a projecting ring formed on the inside of the neck, more effectually to compress the cork and make it tight. The corking was very carefully per- formed ; the bottles were then inclosed in coarse linen or canvas bags to preserve tiiem from being broken. When he employed jars, he was oblii^ed to join several pieces of cork together to make a stopper large enf)ugh ; and as his method was ingenious, we shall notice it. He joined together several pieces of cork with isinglass glue made as follows : Having dissolved four drachms of well beaten isinglass in eight ounces of water over the fire, he filtered the solution through linen, and again put it on the fire to reduce it to one-third of the ([uantity. He then added an ounce of full proof brandy, and left the whole on the fire till it was rcdncPil to three ounces. When he wanted to use this glue, he put some in a little pot over live coals, wainu'd the pieces of cork, and ajiplied the glue to the surfaces with a brush ; he then bound the pieces tii^;ether with string, and let them tlry in the sun or in a gentle heat for a fortnight, when he cut them to the .size of his jars. Having corked his jars or bottles, he then covered the corks and edge of the vessel with a lute made of quicklime slacked in the air, and beat up with skimmed milk cheese to the thickness of paste ; this hardens very rapidly, and withstands the heat of boiling water. Lastly he applied strips of linen to this |iasie, and bound the whole down with two wires crossing each other. If the bottles were to be sent to a distance, he inclosed them in canvas bags, pitched if necessary. .I'll?. In this manner a great variety of dishes are jireserved, so as to be sent to distant places, as round of beef, mutton, fowls roasted and fricasseed, young partridges roasted, eels, carp, pike, sweetbread, mushrooms, oni<ms. butter, anchovies. In short, the result of these experiments shows that in this manner all animal productions may be preser\*ed for one or even two years. But some substances, as broth, jellies, Sec, will bear much boiling ; other substances will ho spoiled by being boiled too long. ■l.'jlB. Gravies ore preaerved in a manner nearly similar. M. Appert directs that gravy should be made iu the proportion of two jiounds of good meat and poultry to one quart of water ; and the best pieces are to be taken out when one-quarter dressed. The gravy is then to bo strained and suflered to cool, after which it is to be bottled, corked, luted, and tied as directed above, and placed in th(* boiler. The boiling should be con- tinued for two hours, before the bottles with gravy are properly iircparcd. 'I'he meat and poultry that was taUi-u out may be prepared in other bottles in the manner described above for meat. IM'.t. llluod 7)iiiy he preserved ftir the use ol" refiners or for any other purpose by putting it into bottles with vi'iy narrow mouths without boiling ; they must be filled to within an inch of the top, and then have a small quantity of olive oil poured in to the dtjpth of an inch, and then corked thoroughly to exclude the air. Blood has been kept in this manner fresh for two years. M. Appert's method of preserving vegetables will be described in Chap. IV. Sect. III. ■\:ei<). M. Appert's method of jireservivg eggs. — The eggs are put into a jar with raspings of bread, or bran to prevent breaking; the jar corked and luted is put into a suitable vessel with water heated to 200° Fahr., or VIP uniler boiling. The vessel with water being taken ofl' the fire, the water is allowed to cool till the finger can be borne in it. The eggs are then taken out, .and they will keep fresh for six months. ■\'-ei\. M. Appert's method of preserving mitlt. — Fresh milk was reduced by boiling to one-half, and beaten up with the yolks of eggs in the proportion of eight eggs to every ten and a half quarts of milk. The whole is then again placed upon the fire for half an hour, during which time it is to be skimmed frequently ; it is then to be strained, bottled, and tre.ated in the water-bath for two hours. '1 his milk kept for two years, and if churned, would afford good butter. Cream is preserved by boiling it down from five! measures to four ; It is then cooleil and skimmed, put into bottles, corked, luted, and treated in the water-bath boiling for an hour. This eri'am will kcrep two years. •iWi'l. Many articles of provisions prepared in M. Appert's 7nanner may now be had in London. These may be carried fresh to the Fast and West Indies, and are extrenndy convenient for pleasun^ yachts, cabin stores, Ac. Turtle soup may he had in London preserved in this way, in quarts, tliree pints, half gallon and Kallon canisters at the price of rn.lid. per quart, which is found more ecmvenient on some occasions than purchasing the turtle. We subjoin a list with the usual prices, which include the tin oases: —