G43 iIhap. IV. MANAGEMENT OF THE WINE-CELLAR. lum, starch, rice, and albumen either in the form of white of eggs or the serum of blood I'he'substances most in use are isinglass and the white of eggs ; whichever of these 1 nsed, it is first diluted in a portion of the wine, and then strongly agitated with liie whole. After some days, when the wine has become clear, it must be again drawn iflf. The materials above enumerated cannot be employed indifferently for all wines : «d wines are usually clarified with whites of eggs, and white wines with isinglass. 3610 To clarify red wines with while qf eggs. —For a cask of one hundred and sixty bottles draw out four r five'bottles • mix tlie wliites of four new-laid eggs with half a bottle of this wine, and beat it well with ome birch twigs Put this into the cask through the bung-hole, and stir the wine well with a stick ; pour 1 the remainder of the wine, and stir the whole again for a few minutes ; replace the bung, and after four or ve days'repose the wine will be clear and fit for bottling. ^ ,, , • 3611 Toctarifu u'liite wines with limg/ass. — Dissolve some isinglass in wine made lukewarm ; when it is Jssolved strain it through a linen cloth, mix with it some more wine, and beat it with birch twigs. W hen old it should form a jelly. Beat some of this jelly with wine, and pour it into the cask; stir the wine about fell and leave it at rest. If after clarifying a cask of wine, the liquid remain thick at the end of eight or ten lays, take another cask, burn a sulphured match in it, transfer the wine into this, and jung up for thi-ee or four days, and then bottle it. Spbsect. 6.— Bottling Wines. 3612. Bottling wine, though a simple operation, yet requires great care, and if negligently jerformed, the destruction of the wine is inevitable. The first thing to be attended to is ihe choice of good corks: any saving in cheap and indifferent corks is false economy : t is of the first importance that they should by sound, perfectly new, well cut, and lexible ; any having blackness upon them, the remains of the bark, must be rejected. As t is useful to be acquainted with the natural history of this material, we shaU describe it, is well as the mode of manufacture. 3613. Cork is the exterior bark of a tree belonging to the genus oak (Quercus ruber) which grows wild in nany parts of the south of Europe, particularly Spain, Portugal, and Tuscany. When the tree is about Ifteen years old, its bark is fit to be stripped off, and this can be done successfully three times, allowing an nterval of three years between each barking. The bark always grows up again, and its quality improves as he age of the tree increases. It is taken off in sheets or tables by making circular and longitudinal slits in ihe tree. As the sheets are curved when first taken off, they are flattened by heat and pressure. But there s another use in applying heat to the plates of cork. Previous to this operation the pores of the bark are ipen, and its sponginess of texture would make it not only give too much way to the knife, but particularly n the case of" taps" and " bungs" would suffer the liquids to come through. The application of moderate leat causes it to shrink, and closes its pores. For this purpose the convex side is held to the fire till it is lomewhat charred, which is the cause of the black colour to be seen on the surfaces of sheets of cork. In ordinary bottle corks this is not seen, because the black surface is cut away in the process of rounding them ; uid the pores of the cork go across from side to side of the manufactured cork, to which circumstance they owe their imperviousness to liquids. In taps and bungs this charred surface is not cut off. The most extensive use of cork is for stoppers to bottles. To this purpose it is excellently adapted, aecause it is very light, may be easily compressed, and expands again by its elasticity as soon as the pressure s removed; and therefore it fills and stops up the space into which it has been driven by force. It m.iy be sasily cut into all forms, and though it .abounds with pores, which is the cause of its lightness, yet these are 10 minute that they suffer neither water, wine, beer, nor any common liquid, to escape through it, and it is out slowly, and after a considerable interval, that it can be penetrated by spirits; it is less penetrable to fluids -.han many hard woods, which, though apparently more compact, yet nave larger pores. If corks are sus- oected to be bad, so as to give a corky taste, this may be prevented by dipping them completely in a var- nish made of melted suet and purified wax ; but in that case they should be well cemented over likewise to nold them down. It is the business of the cork-cutter to convert the plates into corks for use. This is effected by a sharp knife dexterously handled, and the corks are sorted according to their qu.ilities into four linds, superfine, fine, common, and coarse, which are sold at different prices. The use of cork w.as not unknown to the Romans; but it appears to have been more generally used after the invention of glass oottles, of which no mention occurs before the fifteenth century. 3614. Instead of corks for bottles, the lately invented patent caoutchouc stoppers are a valuable substitute. They are said to be in the first instance cheaper than corks, and can often be used a second time ; they hermetically seal the wine, communicate no taste nor colour, and are not subject to the attacks of insects. They are formed by an extremely thin sheet of India rubber wrapped round a cylinder of elastic material. 3615. Glass bottles, though known to the ancients, having been discovered in Pompeii, iwere not in common use before the fifteenth century. Before this invention, wine was kept in vessels of earthenware and leather, and stoppers of wax were used. It is unne- cessary to remark upon the perfection of bottles of glass on account of their transparency, "which admits of seeing when they are clean, their perfect imperviousness to air, or the Ifluid contained in them, and their cleanness. Bottles should be selected of good manu- facture, and of equal diameter throughout, or they will be liable to break in the binn ■when piled very high. In France, a machine is used for proving their strength ibefore they are used. Twenty-four hours at least before they are filled they should be ■cleaned and rinsed. Lead shot is commonly employed for cleaning them ; but it is desi- rable that great care should be employed that none are left in the bottles, as some- times happens; one or two grains of shot not unfrequently remain in the bottle jammed in the angle, and if these should be dissolved by the acid of the wine they will com- imunicate to it a poisonous quality. It would be very easy to procure small round pebble