BREWING. Chap. III. 559 to continue increasing until it is, on an average, about 10° above that of the atmosphere, which usuullv happens in about ninety-six hours ; this increase of heat will be perceived by thrusting" the hand into the heap. It now exhales an agreeable and peculiar odour, somewhat like that of apples. The "-rain, which had become dry on the surface, now begins again to exhibit the appearance of moisture, called by the maltsters sweuliiiy, which is the first sign of germiuatiou. But it is requisite that this does not proceed too rapidly, which it would do were the heat allowed to increase still farther : aud if the heaps were suffered to remain as at first, the heat would be greater in the centre than at the edges, which would cause the e-ermi'nation to proceed unequally. To prevent this, the maltster turns over the heaps with wooden shovels, and spreads it out in thinner heaps. The turning is repeated twice a-dav, and each time the heaps ai-e made thinner and thinner, until at last tliey are reduced to three or four inches. The temperature which the maltsters wish to preserve is from 55° to 62°, according to the kind of malt they wish to make; but if not checked it •would rise to 70° or 80°, and would at length actually char the grain. But it is from the growth of the rootlets and plumula that the maltster ascertains when the germinating process has advanced as far as it is prudent to allow it. If we examine the grain soon after the commencement of the sweating, we shall perceive the roots beo-inning to make their appearance, at first as a white prominence, which, as it advances, divides into two or three, or more. These rootlets sometimes increase in length with great rapidity, even an inch or two in one night, except their growth be checked. About a day after the sprouting of the roots, the other part of the germ, the plumula, or embryo stalk, which is to produce the future stem and leaves, begins to shoot: this is called the ucrospire. It rises from the same extremity of the stem with the root, and advancing within the husk or skin would at last (if the process were suffered to continue long enough) issue from the other extremity in the form of a green leaf; but, for the reason already mentioned, the malting is stopped before this takes place. As the acrospire shoots along the grain to arrive at the opposite end, the kernel or mealy part of the corn undergoes a remarkable change. The glutinous and mucilaginous matter in a great measure disappears; the taste has become sweet, the colour white, and the texture is so loose that it easily bruises or crumbles to powder between the fingers, and this change is considered to be sufficient when the acrospire has come nearly to the end of the seed, and is just ready to burst out. The object of the maltster is now accomplished; the farinaceous matter has become more soluble in water, much saccharine substance has been produced, which very readily undergoes the vinous fermentation. Before the acrospire has reached the end of the grain it is considered that a part of the fecula of the grain remains unconverted, hard, and insoluble ; and if the acrospire be suffered to grow to a great length, then a portion of saccharine matter has been lost by the germination, having been employed as the food of the young plant. It may be observed that in the smaller kinds of barley, and in here or bigg, it is considered that the acrospire should not be allowed to grow above three quarters or four-fifths of the length of the grain, as more than that will diminish the saccharine matter. With respect to the actual nature of the change which takes place, there is still some obscurity in the subject, and the best chemists are in doubt respecting it : it does not appear to be understood whether all the actual sugar is formed in malting, or whether much of the starch has only undergone such a change as disposes it to be easily converted into sugar by the hot water during the next brewing process, the mashing. The differ- ence is very interesting in a speculative point of view, but less so in practice : for, however the case may be, we are certain that such a change is brought about by the process of malting; that barley which has been malted furnishes a decoction called sweet wort, much more capable of undergoing the vinous fermentation than one made from raw barley alone. The time required for the grain to continue on the malt floor must vary- with circum- stances ; the higher the temperature the sooner the germination arrives at that point when it must be altogether stopped by being dried in the kiln. In general the operation of couching occupies fourteen days. In certain cases, where it is desired to have a milder but more viscid ale, the germination is not carried so far, and the time is shortened. Malting canuot be performed with any success in the summer months, and the best maltsters prefer cold weather: in winter they can always keep the germination at the rate they wish, by heaping up the grain, whereas in warm weather it grows so rapidly that no effort can keep the process equal and regular. 3155. Kiln-dryiny. — By this process all farther vegetation is completely checked, and the malt is dried so as to enable the brewer to keep it for some time without injury. The mode of drying malt is a matter of great nicety, and there are various constructions of the floors of the kiln or chamber in which it is spread. Some are made of wire net-work or hair cloth ; others are formed of earthenware tiles or iron plates ])erforated with innume- rable conical holes, very small at the upper surface and much.wider beneath. In the roof there is an aperture to permit the escape of the heated air and vapour. The malt is spread