BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. B20 are the openings through which water is forced that has come originally from some higher ground, and made its way through tlie soft strata as it would through pipes ; and very often the sources of springs lie at a very great distance. But if the rain water was ever so'pure at first, in passing through various parts beneath the surface of the earth, where a variety of soluble salts occur, it must frequently dissolve some of them in its passage, aud issue more or less impregnated ; and the kind of salts and quantity of the impreg- nation must vary in every locality. Accordingly spring water is never perfectly pure, nor entirely free from substances dissolved in it, though sometimes the quantity of dis- solved matter may be very small, and not so much as sensibly to deteriorate its qualities with reference to domestic purposes. 2907. The sails most frequently found in the water of springs are sulphate of lime and carbonate of lime; but besides these, there occur occasionally sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt, sulphate of soda or Glauber's salt, muriate of soda or common salt now called chloride of sodium. Alum is sometimes found, though much more rarely ; and salts of iron arc extremely common, besides, occasionally, other substances. 2908. The chief practical distinction in water is its being what is called hard and soft, qualities which are pointed out by its action on soap. In water perfectly soft, soap dis- solves without curdling, and washes with a lather; hard water curdles the soap, instead of dissolving it, and will not do for washing. This distinction is practically so important that it is necessary to explain it clearly. 2909. What is called the liardness of loater, exhibited in its curdling soap, is owing to its containing a small quantity of certain neutral salts in solution, which have been derived from the passage of the water through the earth; for rain water is quite free from them. These salts, as has been stated, vary in their nature and proportions accord- ing to the nature of the earth through which the water has passed ; but all these salts which have been just enumerated consist of an acid united to some other substance. Sulphate of lime consists of sulphuric acid and lime ; carbonate of lime, of carbonic acid and lime ; sulphate of magnesia, of sulphuric acid and magnesia ; sulphate of soda, of sulphuric acid and soda ; muriate of soda, of muriatic acid and soda, &c. 2910. Now the reason why water that contains these salts curdles soap is this:—Soap consists of alkali and oil or tallow, and it is the alkali which is the elFective material ic washing; but the acid of the salts dissolved in the water decomposes the soap by having a stronger attraction for its alkali than for the substance with which this alkali is already united, and thus the soap is rendered quite useless and ineffective. But to make this still more plain, we shall take a particular salt, and examine in detail what effect is actually pro- duced upon the soap. Sulphate of lime is by far the most general cause of the hardness of ordinary spring water, except it be brackish, and then the salt would be muriate of soda. Sulphate of lime, we have said, consists of sulphuric acid and lime; and soap, we have stated, consists of alkali, either soda or potash, and oil or fat; these two, the alkali and fat, unite to form soap, which is soluble in water, although fat, one of its ingredients, is insoluble. Now, when sulphate of lime dissolved in water comes in contact with soap, the sulphuric acid, having a stronger attraction for the alkali of the soap than it has for its own lime, lets go the lime, and seizes upon the alkali; in consequence of which the fat of the soap is set at liberty. The soap is thus evidently separated into its original constituents, fat and alkali, and is therefore no longer soap. The soda of the soap joins to the sulphui'ic acid, and forms sulphate of soda, and the lime and the fat unite as an insoluble compound, appearing like a curd ; in consequence of this the peculiar action of the soap is totally prevented. And to understand this clearly, let us examine what is this peculiar action of soap. 2911. The action of soap is detersive, that is, it destroys grease which is only another term for oil or fat of some kind; and the following is the manner in which it takes away or discharges grease:—The alkali of the soap unites with the grease, and makes more soap, which, being soluble in water, is thus carried off. But it may be asked, if the alkali of the soap be already united to oil or grease, why shovdd it unite to the grease which it is intended to destroy ? The fact is, that if there was a sufficient quantity of oil in the soap to saturate it completely, it could not act in this manner, and would not be detersive ; but in the manufacture of soap, care is taken to have a little less oil than would be sufficient for that purpose, and therefore the alkali can still take up a small additional quantity of oil, which is just what happens in its removing grease in washing. Another question will now naturally occur to one who reflects : if the alkali of the soap he the only effective material, ivliy not use it by itself f why make it into soap at all ? This is done merely for convenience ; if the alkali alone was rubbed upon the linen, it would, as every laundress well knows, burn and corrode it, and it would also corrode the skin of the hands : uniting it to fat, therefore, in making it up into soap, is for the pur- [)ose of moderating its strength, and enabling it to be applied for a greater length of time to the desired parts, instead of being, as it would be in the state of soda only, soon lost in the water. It follows from this explanation, that the strongest soap has the greatest quantity of alkali.