657 ON THE MAKING OF PERRY. I Chap. V. The finest cycler and perry of Herefordshire is brought for exportation to the East and IWest Indies, and America. 3699. If the apple juice is weak or defective in sweetness, good cyder cannot be made, sand some saccharine matter should be added, as raisins, honey, or sugar, to afford more >spirit, and overcome the acid. In the Lancashire Agricultural Report, by Dickson and ^Stevenson, p. 434., there is a receipt for making cyder with honey, so as to produce a IQiquor of excellent quality. 3700. Tlie Pomona wine of Dr. Rush is made from apples. He boiled down two barrels of cyder, fresh from lithe press, into one, fermenting it afterwards ; if kept two or three years in a dry cellar, it affords a liquor swhich. according to tlie quality of the apple from which the cyder is made, has the taste of Malaga or lathenish wine. It is a pleasant'drink in summer mixed with water. 3701. The quantity of alcohol in cyder is inconsiderable ; and when extracted by distil- IJation is of a bad quality, except it be repeatedly rectified. In Normandy they make a igreat deal of what is called eau-de-vie from their cyder ; but it is very inferior to brandy tifrom wine, though often employed to adulterate the latter. 3702. Cyder is not so nutritions as malt liquor; but it forms an excellent beverage for Liabouring men in the summer months, its jicid assisting materially in quenching thirst. RRough Herefordshire cyder has been recommended as an antiseptic in cases of low lOontagious fever instead of port wine, when the latter cannot be procured. Sect. IL PERRY. 3703. This beverage is made from the fruit of the pear-tree, which is of the orchard kiind. There are many varieties ; but for the purpose of perry the Tinton squash pear i>s in the highest esteem in Gloucestershire. It is an early fruit, remarkable for the !■ enderness of its flesh. The liquor made from this fruit is pale, sweet, yet remarkably Eine, and of a strong body. The Oldfield pear is a favourite, remarkable for the fine i.lavour of its liquor. The Barland pear of Worcestershire is in great repute, as is also Ihhe red pear. Besides these there are many others of great merit among those of Here- ■ ordshire and the adjacent counties. 3704. The pear is more properly a natumlised than an indigenous fruit in this country ; it • 5 more hardy than the apple, and may be cultivated in almost every part of England with ieearly as much success as in Herefordshire. Like the apple it grows with the greatest luxuriance in strong deep soils, and in these the finest liquors are at present obtained; but tiaferior kinds will flourish in almost any soil that is not incommoded with water, even uach as will scarcely produce herbage. The pear is an extremely long-lived tree, and the aame variety may in consequence be very long kept in cultivation. 370.5. Every variety of this fruit which possesses colour and richness is capable of making •erry; but a good perry pear requires an assemblage of qualities which will be rarely 'Dund in the same fruit. It must contain a large proportion of sugar, or its juice can -ever possess suflicient strength; and unless it be at the same time astringent, the liquor nroduced from it will be acetous whenever it ceases to be saccharine : in the latter state will agi-ee with few constitutions; in the former with none. The juice of the best • 3rry pears, according to Mr. Knight, " is so harsh and rough as to occasion a long-con- ■nued heat and irritation in the throat when the fruit is attempted to be eaten ; yet by rsing simply pressed from the pulp, it becomes rich and sweet, without more roughness nan is agreeable to almost every palate." This circumstance, though extraordinary, oes not stand alone in the vegetable world ; there are many cases where similar changes iske place with acrid vegetable substances. 3706. The pear requires a certain state of maturity to afford perry in the greatest per- ction ; it should be ripe without being mellow or decaying: when it has not obtained k'e proper degree of ripeness, an excess of fermentation cannot be prevented ; and when has exceeded it, the liquor rarely ferments kindly, and is extremely apt to become sour, ■obably by having lost too great a proportion of its astringency; hence few kinds are .und to improve by being kept after they have fallen from the trees. The produce of e same pear tree ripens very irregularly ; the planter must therefore have a considerable : imber of trees of each kind he plants, or he will rarely have a suflicient quantity ready 1 be ground at the same time. Even when the fruit has fallen spontaneously from the ?es, a fourth at least of some kinds will be found immature or decaying, and totally •ifit for making fine perry; this should be (though it rarely or never is) separated from e rest. Mr. Knight attributes to this neglect a certain crude and harsh acid which 'veils upon the palate, and which perry is seldom free from ; and to the same cause it ay be owing that perry, even when genuine, does not agree with so many constitutions cyder. Tiie pear, however, though generally producing a liquor inferior to cyder, has many U u '3