474 ON FOOD. Book VII. good fish sauce, and it is also an ingredient in pickles, and in soups and other dishes, par- ticularly in French cookery. It is said to be originally a native of Siberia. SuBSECT. 3.—Fennel (Anethum Fcenicuimn, Linn.). 2554. Fennel grows wild with us in chalky soils, particularly at Feversham, but has been long cultivated in the garden. The leaves, from their elegance, are often used as a garnish or ornament to various dishes. They are boiled in soups and fish sauces, and some use them as salads. They have too powerful a taste in their natural state to be used, except as a flavouring ingredient. The French use it frequently in fish soups ; but the Italians, by blancliing the plant in their warm climate, where it grows rapidly and to a large size, obtain it in a state very like celery, with a strong thick stalk : the strong taste is then destroyed, and they eat it with oil, pepper, and vinegar. SuBSECT. 4. — Dill (Anethum graveoletis,IAmi.), 2555. This plant resembles fennel considerably, but is smaller. It is used in pickles, particularly with cucumbers, and sometimes in soups and sauces, but chiefly for medicinal purposes. It is a native of Spain. SuBSECT. 5. —Horse-radish (Cochlearia armoracea. Linn.). 2556. This well-known accompaniment of roast beef is a native of England, and a hardy plant, growing wild in wet ground, but it has been long cultivated in gardens also. It is occasionally used in sauces, and in winter salads. Its acrid taste depends upon an essential oil of great pungency, which may be obtained by mashing and distilling with water. 2557. The oil of horse-radish, which is frequently procured in Sweden, is extremely volatile, quickly evaporates, and fiUs the room with the peculiar flavour of the plant On account of the great volatility of its oil, horse-radish, when dried,' loses its flavour, and becomes unfit for the purpose to which it is applied : hence it should never be preserved by drying, but by keeping moist and cold through burying in sand : and for this reason it is, that when scraped for the table, it almost immediately spoils by exposure to the air, the volatile oil evaporating. SuBSECT. 6.—Nasturtium (Tropceolum, Linn.). 2558. This elegant plant, called sometimes Indian cress, is a native of Peru, but grows very well with us. Its young leaves and flowers being of a warm nature, are sometimes used in salads, as the cress ; its fine yellow flowers are employed to garnish dishes; and its seeds, when pickled, form a good substitute for capers. SuBSECT. 7. — Chervil (Scandix Cerepolium, Linn.). 2559. Chervil is a native of various parts of the continent of Europe, and is sometimes observed naturalised in our gardens. The tender leaves are used in salads, and the curled variety for garnishing. There is a kind cultivated in the gardens of Paris (Cerfeuil frise) with beautifully frizzled leaves. The roots are poisonous. SuBSECT. 8.—Pot-marigold (^Calendula officinalis. Linn.). 2560. This is a native of France and Spain, and naturalised here since 1573. The flowers were formerly much used in broths and soups, and the plant is still frequently to be met with in cottage gardens. Sect. XL SWEET HERBS. 2561. Of sweet herbs some are cultivated for culinary purposes, andothers for the perfumer and druggist. Much of the natural ft-agrance of the fields is owing to the aroma of this class of plants, the Labiala ; and many of them yield an aromatic essential oil by distil- lation. The most useful of this class are thyme, sage, mint, marjoram, savory, basil, rosemary, lavender, tansy, and balm. It is said that mint, and many other plants which yield an essential oil, afford it of a more penetrating odour in England than in the south of Europe, and that all strong-smelling plants lose their odour in a sandy soiL SunsECT. 1.— Thyme (Thymus, Linn.). 2562. We have two siiecies of wild thyme in Britain, which differ from the common thyme cultivated in our gardens for culinary purposes.