Book XIV. FRENCH COOKERY. processes must be repeated three or four times; the paste is tlien cut Into tquare or oblong pieces, brushed over with beaten yolli of egg, and baked. b j- . ucu Itamequins (second waj-)—For ramequins there is also another receipt. Three ounces of fresh butter IS put into a stew-pan witli a table-spoonful of water; when melted, tliree eggs must be added, and worked well into the butter. An ancliovj' beaten to a paste, with a little pepper, is next added, and all the ingredients are moistened with two table-spoonfuls of cream, to which is added an equal quantity of Par- mesan cheese finely grated ; these must be stirred well together, and some paper moulds being in readiness, the mixture is poured in, and baked for a few minutes only. SuBSECT. 5. —Entremets of Fruit. 5423. stewed pears. — Scald some pears, and when sort take them out of the hot water and put them into cold ; pare, core, and quarter them ; boil them in syrup made of loaf sugar, and to every pound of fruit put a pint of syrup ; cover them close while boiling ; and by way of giving them a fine colour, cochineal tied in a muslin bag may be put in, to be removed as soon as the colour is obtained. The juice of three lemons, and a little of the rind is then put into tlie syrup and boiled up. A quart of water and three pounds of sugar are the proportions for the syrup. 5424. Slewed apples (with custard). _ Pare, core, and cut into slices some apples, steep them with lemon juice, peel, and some loaf sugar. Put them,-when done and cold, into a pie-dish ; cover them over wiih an unboiled custard, and bake it till the custard is set. It may be served cither hot or cold. 6425. Pommes a la Polonaise— Core with a scoop, so as not to break them, a dozen small rennet apples, aflerwMds pare and cut them in slices. Cover a dish (not a very deep one) with apricot marmalade, and the 8li(Ss of apple, alternately, forming the layers as much as possible into a dome. Glaze the last layer with sifted loaf sugar, put it into an oven for half an hour, and carefully wipe the edges of the dish when it is done. • SuBSECT. 6.—Entremets of Cream. .5426. Italian cheese, a Voranye ou ate citron. — Take a quart of cream, a pint of-wliite ■wine, a glass of brandy, and six ounces of lump sugar. To these add the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one obtained by rubbing it with lump sugar. Line a small hair sieve with muslin, sufiScient of which should fall over the sides to allow of the cream being afterwards gently lifted out of the sieve. With a whisk whip the cream untU it becomes thick and almost solid, fill the sieve with it, and then set it on a basin or jar that the whey may drain out of it. When firm turn it on the dish on which it is to be sent to table. Fill up the sieve in the first instance as high as possible, to allow for the loss of the whey ; also remove carefully lemon or orange peel before the cheese sets. 5427. Fromage Bavarois. — Boil half a pint of cream, and when cool add to it the beaten yolks of nine eggs, a little salt, half a pound of sifted sugar, and some crisped orange-flowers. Let these simmer gently over a slow fire, stirring them constantly until they thicken, but not allowing the liquid to boil. Strain the whole through a silken sieve, and have in readiness an ounce of clarified isinglass to add to the cream, with a Chantilly cheese ; incorporate the whole together and pour it into a mould. Ice it for three hours ; when to be served, dip the mould into hot water as hastily as possible, and turn out the contents on the dish it Is to be sent in to table. fiii%. Fromage d'abricots. — In summer lake twelve apricots, peel, stone, and pound them with a little sugar; rub them through the tamis, and to this juice add an ounce of clarified isinglass; whip a pint of thick cream, and add it to the apricots ; taste if the whole be sweet enough, and when sufficiently sugared, whip the whole over ice until the isinglass is dissolved and blended with the fruit and cream ; put it into a mould, keeping Ice and salt all round it If the mixture be not stirred while it is becoming consistent by freezing, tlie apricots will sink to the bottom of the mould, and the fromage will bo spoilt, one part yellow and tough. In winter this fromage may be made ol apricot marmalade, rubbed through a hair sieve to dissolve the isinglass; a pint of thick cream is then whipped and mixed over the ice with the marmalade ; the whole is then put into a mould, and when it is becoming consistent may be left on the ice-tub till it is to be served. Fromages oi strawberries, raspberries, pine apple, may be made in the same way. Fromage de PSche. — Infuse in a syrup the peaches, and when tender drain them and blanch the kernels; pound these extremely fine, and rub them with the fruit through a sieve, mix it with some whipped cream, and then put it Into moulds, and proceed with it, over the ice tub, as with apricot fromage. SuBSECT. 7.—Entremets of Jelly. 5429. Italian jelly. — Make a calf's foot jelly, (see "Calf's Foot Jelly," E. Cookery) and when clear half fill a mould ; take some Italian cheese out of a plain mould and cut it into small rounds with the round cutter; lay these pieces of cheese in circles round the jelly in the mould, and when neatly arranged, pour on them some more calf's foot jelly. Let it set, and then gently add more and more of the jelly until the mould is filled. In summer set it in the ice pail to fix it more firmly; in the winter a cool place will be sufficient. Hold the mould for an instant in hot water before the jelly is turned out; 54.30. Jeleii de fraises framboiscs. — Take a pint of fresh gathered raspberries, and picking them carefully, set them over the fire with a small quantity of water ; when hot, strain them through a tamis, and clear them by passing them through a jelly bag; add to it an ounce of dissolved isinglass, and half a pound of sifted sugar; warm all together, but stirring them constantly; strain and put the jelly into a mould, set the mould in a pail of ice for three hours ; Avhen wanted, dip the bottom of the mould quickly into boiling water, and turn out, strawberry, orange, and lemon jelly is prepared by the same process. For fruit jellies ishiglass is to be jireferred to calf's foot stock, as it is .ilwiiys clear and free from flavour. 54.31. Madeira wine jelly Slake a calf's foot jelly, and when nearly clarified iiour in a bottle of Madeira wine and some brandy (a quarter of a pint). The jelly in clarifying deprives both the wine and the brandy of much of their strength ; it is a jelly that m.iy be kept for several d.nys, hence, when any is sent from table ft