Book VIII. 516 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. no opinion in natural philosophy better established, than that water is a compound body, and, consequently, that it cannot be ranked among the elements. Wlien -we speak of the general properties of -water as a body, we allude only to water which is absolutely pure, and unmixed witli any other matter whatever. 2882. Although pure water is composed of two gaseous bodies, yet there is no variety in'its composition; that is, a given quantity of water has not at one time more oxygen, and at another more hydrogen, but the proportions of these constituents is always precisely the same ; namely, eight parts, by weight, of oxygen, and one of hydrogen. Neither is pure water in itself liable to any change whatever; when its elements have once fairly united to form a liquid, they cannot be separated or altered in any manner without the liquid entirely losing all its properties ; in short, by no longer existing as water. Why, then, it may be asked, do we hear of different kinds of water ? If water be unchangeable, what distinctions can be made, or how can various specimens of water have different qualities, as hard, soft, and so on ? The answer to these questions will form the subject of the fol- lowing pages. And first we shall describe the properties of water as a body, inde- pendently of every kind of mixture with any other substance, or contaminations of any kind. 2883. Water is volatile, that is, it is capable of being converted into vapour. If a ves- sel containing water be exposed to the air, the water gradually lessens in quantity, and at length disappears altogether. This, in familiar language, is said to be the drying up of the water; but the fact is, the water has insensibly been converted into invisible vapour which has mingled with the atmosphere. This is called evaporation; not a particle of the water is lost, but the whole has dissolved in the air, to return one day in the form of rain. 2884. We have already shown (in Chap. I. Book I. " On Heat") that water boils, or is converted into steam, when it is heated to 212° in the ordinai-y pressure of the atmo- sphere, that is, when the barometer stands at 30 inches ; water cannot be made any hotter in open vessels, because the steam carries off the heat. If salt be added to water, it is capable of being heated to a degree higher than 212°, in proportion to the strength of the brine. 2885. But water may be heated to a much higher degree in closed vessels, where the steam is confined so as to exert a great pressure upon the surface of the water; or the steam may thus be prevented from forming : but in that case it is requisite that the vessels shoiild be extremely strong, or have a safety valve, otherwise there is danger of their bursting. The digesters for dissolving meat and bones are made upon this principle. 2886. We may here refer the reader to what we have said in Chap. I. Book I., " On Heat," for many details connected with the heating of water. 2887. Steam is condensed again into water by cold : if deprived of the heat which made it steam, it returns to its former liquid state. On these two processes, the conversion of liquids into the elastic form, and condensing them by means of cold into the liquid form again, the art of distilling depends. 2888. Water is so bad a conductor of heat that it was supposed by Count Rumford to be absolutely a non-conductor. And although late experiments have shown that this is not actually the case, yet water conducts heat so imperfectly that the Count's conclusion may be taken as true for practice in the greater number of ordinary cases. A vessel of water when put upon the fire is heated by the lower stratum of water expanding, and becoming specifically lighter; hence it ascends through the rest to the top, causing another layer to take its place ; this becomes heated in its turn, and so the various particles of water transport or carry the heat upwards by their motion. 2889. Water becomes solid, or is converted into ice, when it is cooled down to 32°, and the ice begins to be formed by appearing like needles crossing each other. In freezing, the air contained in water is excluded, but the bulk of the ice being greater than that of the water which has been frozen, ice is specifically lighter than water, and swims upon it. The specific gravity of ice is about 0-94 : that is, it is -j^ lighter than water. 2890. Water in freezing, and increasing in bulk, expands with great force; and hence it frequently bursts very strong vessels in which it may be contained : to this cause must be attributed the rupture of pipes in frosty weather. The expansive force of ice in freezing is well shown in an experiment made by Major Williams. A bomb-shell thirteen inches in diameter, and more than two inches thick, was filled with water, and the fuse hole plugged up with an iron bolt: thus charged it was exposed to the cold of a severe frost, and the consequence was that the bomb burst by the congelation of the water. This expansive power of water in freezing is of infinite importance in the preparation of soils by the disintegration of rocks, and the pulverisation of the ground after it has been turned up. . , ,-i • • 2891. Water nssvmcs the solid form, not only when it becomes ice, but likewise in many ca.ses where it combines chemically with other bodies ; for instance when salts crystallise from their solutions in water, a certain portion of this fluid becomes fixed, and is called