718 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 4097. The simplest method of prcparimj a bevcrayc from the cocoa beam is tliat which was employed origmally by the Mexicans. They roasted them in earthen pots and after clearing them from tiic husks, which then easily separated by fanning, bruised'them between two heated stones, working the oily paste into the form of cakes; and tliis is nearly the process employed here at present. The taste of the unroasted bean is bitterish ^»|Jctuous, rather rough and peculiar, but not ungrateful. By roasting it is considerably 4098. Chocolate, made in the manner above described, was imitated by the Spaniards from the Mexican mode. It was extensively used in Spain, and was imported into tliis country as a great luxury under the name of Spanish chocolate. This, however, had the addition of other ingredients than the cocoa beans, to give it a more agreeable flavour, as sugar, cinnamon, vanilla, and other spices. Some have added maize, tapioca, salep, arrow- root, and substances which may be considered as adulterations. When the mixture was made into a liquid, it was poured into moulds which gave it the form of cakes, when become dry and hard. The spices added to chocolate are thought to render it less wholesome and more heating than the simple cocoa bean, and are generally omitted in our preparation of this article. 4099. When Spanish chocolate is to be used, a portion of one of the cakes must be scraped fine, added to a sufficient quantity of water, and simmered for a quarter of an hour; but milling is necessary to make it completely smooth. For this purpose a tin vessel is made, fg. 604., that has a circular wheel of wood or metal within, fixed to a stem that passes through the lid, and which, being whirled about rapidly by the palms of Fig. CM- the hand, bruises and mixes the chocolate with the water. The chocolate must be milled off the fire, then put on again to sim- mer some time, then milled again until it is quite smooth. From the fineness of the chocolate there should be no sediment and the whole should be drunk ; cream is generally used with it. An ounce of the cake will make a pint quite rich. The sugar may be put in with the scraped chocolate, or added afterwards. Chocolate should never be made before it is wanted, because heating it again lessens the flavour, destroys the froth, and injures the body of the chocolate. It should not be brought quite to a boil, for the oil of the nut is observed to rise to the top after a few minutes' boiling, and even on standing long on the fire. 4100. Churchman was a celebrated manufacturer of chocolate in this country, and he has been succeeded by Fry, of Bristol, who now prepares every variety of chocolate and cocoa in the greatest perfection. 4101. Fry's Churchman's chocolate in powder does not requii'e milling. It is sold in small tin canisters, and is extremely convenient for travellers or persons in public offices, &c., as a cup of chocolate is made with little trouble. To prepare it, put a large tea-spoonful into a tea-cup, add a few tea-spoonfuls of boiling water, and mix it well; then fill up the cup with boiling water and stir it; add sugar, milk, or cream to suit the taste. 4102. Chocolate paste is another preparation by Fry, made with still greater facility than the last; it may be mixed at the breakfast table. 4103. Broma is a preparation of chocolate adapted for those with whom the oily quality of chocolate does not agree. Part of the oil is extracted, and some sago, potato starch, or similar substance substituted, which renders it easier of digestion. 4104. 3IiUi chocolate is made with milk instead of water." Put the milk and water on to boil, then scrape the chocolate fine, from one to two squares to a pint. When the milk and water boils, take it off the fire, throw in the chocolate, mill it well till it froths. 4105. Chocolat d manger is a preparation of chocolate, originally French, made up with sugar into small long cakes for eating. They are considered useful to travellers from the great quantity of nutriment they contain in little compass. Humboldt states that by means of this nutritive quality of cocoa, the inhabitants of some parts of South America are enabled to sustain very long journeys in crossing the deserts or uninhabited forests. 4106. Since the Cocoa beans themselves have been imported in abundance into this country, real Spanish chocolate is nearly gone out of use, and both chocolate and what is teiTiied Cocoa are manufactured here ; the difference between them being that in the former the beans, carefully selected and deprived of their skins, are perfectly levigated, so that the paste unites readily with the water and milk boiled with it, scarcely depositing any sediment; whereas in cocoa, being less finely ground, there is more sediment; chocolate is so finely ground that the particles are kept suspended, and the whole is drunk, whereas in what is called simply cocoa, the sediment must be allowed to subside, aud only the liquid is used when poured off from the grounds. 4107. Cocoa is prepared here for sale in several ways. The beans are put into a heated iron cylinder similar to a coffee-roaster, having holes at the ends for suffering the vapours