STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. 1142 give to a horse that masticates -well great invigoration : but coin alone, if given to excess, predisposes tlie animal to fever, and to contract particular disorders which often fall into the legs, and this efifect requires to be counteracted by some means, of -n hich the best is green food, many of the grasses partaking of some medicinal virtue or other, and a cooling principle : this is better than medicines. Upon the whole, oats form the most substantial and most useful food for saddle and coach horses, thougli this is always varied by some addition. Several substitutes have been tried, as bai-ley, beans, peas, carrots, potatoes and other roots, but though horses with slow work may do for a time with these, yet to all of them there is some objection not applicable to the oat. Barley is rarely used in this country for horses, but is common food for horses and mules in the soutli of Europe, particularly in Spain : it does not appear to answer quite so well with us as oats, notwithstanding it appears, from chemical analysis, to contain a greater quantity of nutritive matter. Before the introduction of oats, it was much more used, and appears to have been the principal horse-food of the ancients. It should be sound in quality, and should be bruised or steeped before it is given. Barley is reckoned to cool the blood of horses, and is occasionally given to them ground in mashes, and mixed with chaff, for fattening them when they are recovering from illness. G779. Hlieat Is rarely giveu as horses' food, except when farmers have a quantity that is not sale.ible. It contains more nutritive matter than any otlier grain. Horses eat it greedily ; but it is dilSctdt to masticate, and also to digest, from the iiuantity of gluten it contains, which is apt to form obstructions in the bowels. It should never he given alone, but mixed with chaff, and it is a good plan to bruise it or soak it in hot water. The external part of wheat is employed in all town stables, either as bran or pollard, the latter being the most nutritious ; but these are more expensive tlian oats. Rye is not employed here as horses' food, but is very generally used in North America, coarsely ground, and sprinkled over straw and clover grass previously wetted. It is also used in Germany, but generally in the shape of bread made from the whole flour and bran, and it is not unusual in travelling through some parts of that country and of Holland to see the postilions help themselves and their horses from the same loaf The plan of giving wlioaten bread to horses was formerly adopted on some race courses in England, but was not found to answer. 6780. Tlie pulse used as horses' food are beans and peas. Beans are a very hearty food for draught horses, but are seldom used alone, on account of their heating and astringent qualities. It is well known to travellers that they produce more vigour than an equal weight of oats ; a horse can travel further on being partly fed with them, and is not so soon exhausted. They should be at least a year old: when they are new they are indigestible and flatulent. If horses are old, their teeth are not able to masticate them, and then they should be bruised in a miU or soaked. They are usually mixed with oats or bran, or with cut straw or hay. Peas are seldom used alone, but mixed with beans or corn fodder. They are said to be more indigestible than beans. The variety of pea given to horses is the grey or hog pea, which is smaller than the garden pea. 6781. Maize is not used as horses' food in England; but in the West Indies, saddle horses are kept in good condition by it. 6782. The roots used as horse-food are such as contain much sugar. Carrots are most esteemed, and are much relished by all cattle. They are slightly laxative at first, but this effect wears off when the horse gets used to them. They form an excellent substitute for grass ; but though horses can work upon them, they cannot supersede corn. In com- bination with oats they are said to restore a worn-out horse, and to have an excellent effect upon the coat of horses. They may be given raw, being first washed and sliced; their nutritive property, compared with oats, is as six to four. 6783. Parsnips are very nourishing, and are much used in France for horses' food. They are used raw, and also boiled and mixed with cabbages, bran, chafiF, or buck-wheat. 6784. Turnips are sometimes given to farm or cart-horses, but seldom to any other. They are not proper to be given in the raw state, but should be boiled, or partially steamed, and mixed with potatoes. The Swedish turnips are much better than the common. 6785. Potatoes are very nutritious, but should be always steamed. Professor Low states that fifteen pounds of potatoes yield as much nutriment as four pounds and a half of oats. They are sufficient occasionally for horses that do slow work, and occasionally they may for some time supersede the use of corn, even for those that do fast work. Horses eat them very readily. Raw potatoes are found to be extremely prejudicial, and in some cases they have even proved fatal to horses. 6786. It is to be observed, that though farm-horses, and such as do slow work, may be kept in condition for a considerable time upon the above vegetables, with only half the usual allowance of corn, and sometimes without any, yet horses that have to do hard or fast work cannot be supported long without high feeding, with plenty of oats or other *'°6787. Tlie usual way of feeding carriage, gig, and post horses is nearly similar. The usual fodder is hay, not cut," in unlimited quantity. In the summer some grass is given, and in winter occasionally, perhaps once a week, a bran mash. They also receive three or four feeds a day, consisting of oats and beans, broken or unbroken, and uncooked, m