735 (Chap. II. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. r the most extensively distributed; maize has the greatest range of temperature ; but rice 1 may be considered as supporting the largest number of the human race. The natural I distribution of these grains over the globe depends not only upon climate, but likewise : upon the industry of man, the state of commerce, and other causes by -which the limits of I their cultivation are extended. 4188. The following view of the distribulion of the Cerealia is abridged from a German ••work quoted in " Jameson's Journal" for 1825 : — Within the polar circle agriculture is found only in a few places. In Siberia, grain reaches to the utmost , only to G0°; in the eastern parts scarcely above 55° ; and in Kamtschatka there is no agriculture. On I the north-west coast of America, the polar limit of agriculture appears to be somewhat higher; for in the 1 more southern Russian possessions, barley and rye come to maturity. On the eastern coast of America it is ! scarcely above 52°. It is only in Europe, in Lapland, that grain is cultivated at so high a latitude as 70°; 1 beyond this, the bark of the pine, dried fish, and here and there potatoes, supply the place of grain. The I grains which extend farthest to the north in Europe are barley and oats; these, which in the milder climates : are not used for bread, afford to the inhabitants of the uorthern parts of Norway and Sweden, and part of Siberia, their chief vegetable fooi Rye is the next which becomes associated with these. This is the pre- • vailing grain in a great part of the northern temperate zone, namely, in the south of Sweden and Norway, ]3enmark, and in all the lands bordering on the Baltic, the north of Germany, and part of Siberia. In tlie latter, another very nutritious grain, buck-wheat, is very frequently cultivated. In the zone where rye pre- vails, wheat is also generally to be found, barley being here chiefly cultivated for the manufacture of beer, and ' oats supplying food for horses. To these there follows a zone in Europe and western Asia, where rye lessens or disappears and wheat almost exclusively furnishes bread. The middle or south of France, England, part of Scotland, a part of Germany, Hungary, the Crimea and Caucasus, as also the lands of middle Asia, where agriculture is followed, belong to this zone. Here also the vine is found; wine supplants the use of beer, and barley is consequently less raised. Next comes a district where wheat still abounds, but no longer exclusively furnishes bread, rice and maize becoming frequent. To this zone belongs Portugal, Spain, part of France on the IVIediterranean, Italy, and Greece; further, the countries of the east, Persia, northern India, Arabia, Egypt, Nubia, Barbary, and the Canary Islands; in these latter countries, however, the culture of maize or rice towards the south is always more considerable; and in some of them several kinds of Lorghum (Doura) and Poa Abyssinica, come to be added. In both these regions of wheat, rye only occurs at considerable elevations; oats, however, more seldom, and at last entirely disappear, barley affording food for liorses and mules. In the eastern part of the temperate zone of the old continent, in China and Japan, our northern kinds of grain are very unfrequent, and rice is found to predominate. The cause of this difference between the east and the west of the old continent appears to be in the manners and peculiarities of the people. In North America, wheat and rye grow as in Europe, but more sparingly. Maize is more reared in the western than in the old world ; and rice most cultivated in the southern provinces of the United States. In the torrid zone, maize predominates in America, rice in Asia, and both these grains are in nearly equal quantity in Africa. The cause of this distribution is, without doubt, historical; for Asia is the" native country of rice, and America of maize. In some situations, especially in the neighbourhood of^ the tropics, wheat is also met with, but .ilways subordinate to the other kinds of grain. Besides rice and maize, there are in the torrid zone several kinds of grain, as well as other plants, which supply the inhabitants with food, either used along with them, or entirely occupying their place. Such are in the new continent, yams, the manihot, and the batatus, the root of which, and the pisang, furnish universal articles of food. In the same zone in Africa, doura, pisang, manihot, and yams. In the East ladies and on the Indian islands, PanicumL frumentaceum, several palms, and cycadeae, which produce the sago, pisang, yams, batatas, and the bread fruit^ In the South Sea Islands, grain of every kind disappears, its place being supplied by the bread fruit tree, the {)isang, and Tacca pinnatifida. In the tropical parts of New Holland there is no agriculture, the inhabitants iving upon the sago of various palms, and some species of arum. In the high lands of South America, there is a distribution similar to that of the degrees of latitude. Maize, indeed, grows to the height of 7,200 feet above the level of the sea, but only predominates between 3,000 and G,000 feet of elevation. Below 3,000 feet it is associated with the pisang and the above-mentioned vegetables, while from 6,000 to 9,260 feet, the European grains abound, whcit in the lower regions, and rye and barley in the higher. Potatoes alone are cultivated from 9,260 to 12,300 feet. To the south of the tropic of Capricorn, wherever agriculture is practised, considerable resemblance with the northern temperate zone may be observed. In the southern parts of Brazil, in Buenos Ayres, Chili, at the Cape of Good Hope, and in the temperate zone of New Holland, wheat predominates; barley, however, and rye, make their appearance in the southern parts of these countries and in Van Diemen's Land. In New Zealand the culture of wheat is said to have been tried with success, but the inhabitants avail themselves of the Acrostichum furcatum as the main article of sustenance. SuBSECT. I. — Wheat. 4189. In every climate where wheat can be cultivated, it is raised in preference to all other kinds of com. It contains the greatest quantity of starch, and likewise by far the most gluten, a principle from which it derives the quality that fits it for bread above every other grain. The expense of its cultivation is, indeed, somewhat greater; but from its superiority as a bread com, it is always chosen where the climate permits, or the poverty of the country has not constrained the inhabitants to be content with cheaper food. 4190. WJieaten bread is now almost universally used in England; and in Scotland it is becoming much more general: but in the reign of Henry VIII. it was confined to the gentry, and the poorer class ate only rye, barley, or oaten bread. About the middle of the last century, very little wheat was cultivated in the northern parts of England, and the crust of the Christmas goose pies of Cumberland was composed of barley meal. 4191. Tlic native country of wheat is not certain : but Bruce found it growing wild in Abyssinia. It requires a climate moderately warm ; it does not extend to high latitudes; and it is finest in the warmest parts of the temperate zone. 4192. Of wheal, agriculturists reclion several varieties: but of these only two are gene- rally cultivated in this country. 1. Winter tvlieat (fi,fig. 610.), Trilicum hybcrnicum, Linn., sown in ■winter, and sometimes