Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. 819 3 G 2 Fig. 637. Fig. 638. the doors on the nearest side are supposed to be removed to show the screen; they are only opened when the cooks wish to look in. 4673. The bottle-jack and niche screm. Jig. 637., when well made, is often a useful sub- stitute for the spit. It consists of a spring inclosed in a brass cylinder, and requires winding up every time it is used ; the joint is fixed to an iron suspended from the cylinder containing the spring, and this is usually fastened to a niche made of tin, which serves to reflect much heat that assists in the roasting. At the bottom, on a stand, is a small dripping-pan or well to collect the gravy. This apparatus is capable of roasting a tolerably large joint; but, if the joint be small and light, a weight of cast-iron, b, is necessary to be attached, to make it turn more steadily. Some of these are made to go two hours without winding. Some cooks say that the bottle-jack is best used without the screen, or only one of the common kind, when the fire is large; for, with its own niche screen, the reflection is so powerful, that the meat is apt to be dried up too fast. The whole apparatus is extremely useful where the eco- nomy of fuel is to be much regarded; for it will roast very well, with attention, when placed before a very small fire, so that, with it, there is never any occasion for a large fire in the range; and therefore it is much used in small families. 4674. An improved spring jack for roasting, fig. 638., has lately appeared, in which the meat is fixed on a spit lying horizontally in the usual manner. A box on the top con- tains the spring, which carries round a wheel on the front; round this an endless chain passes over two pulle3's to the spit, which goes through on the side of the tin screen. 15y means of several holes, and shortening or lengthening the chain, the height of the spit can be adj usted ; and there is a fly-wheel to regulate the motion. We should not omit the humble string and weight, fig. 639., by means of which many a small joint or piece of meat is — ,——-"Xl I ''Ousted by the simple twisting and untwist- j-7 ^I3J ' of a worsted string : c is a tin box filled with some heavy substance, and costs only sixpence. This will roast about six or eight pounds of meat, and two smaller hooks are added for less articles. The only objection is the attention necessary, as the string requires a slight twist every five minutes. P'l!- S39. Roasting, as it is usually conducted on a spit before a kitchen range, consuvies more fuel than all tlie other modes of cooking; and it was from this circumstance that Count Rumford was induced to tui'n his attention to the means of economising, without injuring the per- fection of the roast. 4675. One of the principal inventions which he brought to England in 1795 was a method of dressing meat at that time unknown here, by which it could be roasted quite as well as is usually done before a large open fire in a kitchen range, by shutting it up in an appa- ratus somewhat resembling an oven that required only a very small quantity of fuel to heat it, with the advantage of a great saving of trouble. Every nice palate can distin- guish between meat baked in a common oven, and that which has been roasted before an open fire; but the Riinford roaster completely annihilated this dilFcrence, and no one could distinguish between a joint properly cooked in this machine, and one done before a range. In consequence, not only hundreds, but thousands, of Rumford roasters were made, and employed in English, Scotch, and Irish kitchens ; and it was universally allowed that they entirely answered the desired object. 4676. The original Rumford roaster was a cylinder of sheet iron laid horizontally, and set in brickwork, with a small closed fire-place below it, the smoke and flame passing all round the cylinder, and then descending some way before it passed off into the flue. In the interior there is a dripping-pan, placed upon two long sliders, forming a kind of sledge which can be drawn out and pushed into the roaster. In this dripping-pan a sort of gridiron is placed, on which the meat is laid ; and a little water is put into the pan, on wliicli the