Book VIII. BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. 660 CHAP. VL ON THE SIAKING OF VINEGAR. .3723. Although most of the vinegar used in domestic economy is purchased, there are yet many occasions where it is useful to make it, in order to secure it of good quality ; and sometimes liquors become sour, and cannot be made any use of, except by converting them into vinegar. It is important also that the nature of a material so much employed in many culinary operations, and as an article of nutriment, should be well understood. 3724. Vinegar was known for jnany ages before any other acid. It is mentioned by Moses, and indeed seems to have been common among the Israelites, and other'eastern nations, at a very early period. It was at first made from wine, and the formation of wine-vinegar is probably as ancient as the liquid itself from which it was produced; although the im- provement of the process has been the result of the observations of ages. Vinegar was much in use among the Greeks and Romans, who employed it both in their cookery, as a luxury, and as medicine. It was found highly useful in their armies, the soldiers being always obliged to carry some, for the purpose of mixing a little with water, to obtain a grate- ful drink, both cooling and excellent to quench thirst. This practice is still followed in some of the warmer parts of Europe, particularly among the Spanish peasantry, who are accustomed to mix about a gill of wine-vinegar with a gallon of water, and a tea-spoonful of salt, for a common beverage ; and with this drink alone, and bread, they frequently sustain the labours of the field, exposed to the heat of the sun in their warm climate, and are as healthy and athletic a race as any in Europe. They may occasionally, when their work is over, indulge in a glass of their vin de pays, or even of some kind of spirits, but during their labour, they find vinegar and water sufficient. The uses to which vinegar is applied amongst us are too numerous and well known to 1 e here enumerated. As a condiment, vinegar is grateful, and used moderately, is wholesome. It appears, in general, to be a useful addition to fatty and gelatinous substances, rendering them more digestible ; but if taken in too large quantities, it is highly injurious to the stomach. 372.'). Tlie name is derived from the French vinaigre, or vin, wine, and aigre, sour. Strictly, therefore, the term vinegar should be confined to what is made from wine ; and that made from ale is sometimes called alegar; but as the acid is the same, however it may have been procured, the custom is now to call all the varieties of it by the name vinegar. Sect. I. GENERAL PEINCIPLES OF PRODUCING TTNEGAK. 3726. In Book VIII. Chap. II., when treating of fermentation, we stated that every liquor that has completely undergone the vinous or spirituous fermentation, is spon- taneously disposed to pass into the acetous stage, and will do so except means are taken to prevent it. Thus if wine, ale, beer, or any other containing spirit and mucilage, be exposed for some time to air not too cold, that is to say, from about 75° to 80°, or a tem- perature somewhat higher than our ordinary summer heat, they will undergo a second fermentation, and become sour ; and the sourness will increase so much after some weeks or months, that they will be found converted into a weak vinegar. But if this natural process is left to itself, the change might be too gradual or slow to obtain vinegar in perfection, as the first acetified portion will become mouldy and go on to the putrefactive state before the last has become sour. It is necessary, therefore, to add either yeast or au acetous ferment to hasten the new fermentation: this new fermentation must also be stopped in time, or as soon as it has arrived at the completely acetous state, and the acid has attained the highest degree of perfection and strength, otherwise the liquor would speedily be deteriorated; the acid taste would gradually lessen, and at last disappear altogether, being succeeded by an offensive smeO proceeding from the putrefactive fer- mentation ; a mouldy watery liquor remaining, with scarcely any acidity. It therefore requires skill and experience in the vinegar-maker, not only to employ the best process for producing the acid liquor, but to determine when the vinegar is in a fit state to be drawn off and closely barrelled. Thus, as we have stated of fermenUtion generally, the formation of vinegar is the result of natural laws, and we can only regulate the circum- stances under which they act. Sect. II. OF THE DIFFEHENT SORTS OF VINEGAR. 3727. The sorts of vinegar in common v-te may be divided into, 1. wine vinegar ; 2. raisin -vinegar; .'!. malt vinegar; 4. sugar vinegar ; I), fruit vinegar ; 6. wood vinegar, or pyro- ligncoup acid. All these consist of the same acid, the acetic diluted with water: con- taining likewise several impurities, as gluten, mucUage, and sometmics other vegetablo