704 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VUL Fig. 573. Sect. XI. TEA-POTS AND TEA-KETTLES. 4036. With respect to tea-pots, the form is of less importance than the material of which they are made. About thirty years ago, there was a warm and learned contest respecting the best substance for tea-pots ; that is, what they should be made of, to " draw the tea" best. It is obvious, that the nature of the material itself will have no particular action upon the tea, and that the question would be decided by determining what substance kept the water hot the longest. It had been supposed, from observation, that metal tea-pots performed the best; and yet the doctrine of the conducting powers of bodies, as imder- stood at that time, appeared to be in favour of earthenware, which being a worse con- ductor than metal, was supposed to prevent in a greater degree the escape of heat. Each substance, therefore, had its advocates: theory appeared to decide for one, while experience declared for the other. In the meantime, a discovery made by Professor Leslie of Edinburgh threw a new light upon this subject. He found that although all heated substances throw ofi" invisible rays of radiant heat, yet that the quantity projected depended much more upon the smoothness and roughness of the surface than upon the conducting power of the body; and that polished metal, although one of the best con- ductors of heat, was one of the worst radiators, metal not polished being a good radiator as well as conductor. Although earthenware, particularly the black unglazed sort, then so much in use (Wedgwoods), is a bad conductor, yet it is a better radiator than the polished metal, and consequently throws off more heat. Water, of course, cools sooner in an earthenware tea-pot, particulai-ly if not glazed, than in one of polished metal. Since the date of tliis discovery, bright metal tea-pots have been considered to be most effectual in preserving the heat of the water ; and hence both theory and practice now agree as to the substance best adapted for making a strong infusion of tea. But for this purpose it is essential that the metal tea-pot shall be kept bright; for if not, it is worse than the earthenware, as it is the polish of the surface that particularly acts in preventing the radiant heat from escaping. This principle, though here applied to a tea- pot, has many other important applications, since a bright metal tube of any kind will confine the heat of a fluid better than one covered with cloth, and therefore is fittest for conveying steam where it is required not to be given out. 4037. As a set-off against what has just been said, it is to be observed that if a second quantity of water be poured into the tea-pot, the metal one will give worse tea than the earthenware one; because the greater heat of the metal will exhaust the tea at first so as to leave very little for the second infusion ; whereas the inferior temperature of the earthenware tea-pot, by extracting only a small proportion at first, leaves some soluble matter for the action of a subsequent infusion. When the tea-pot is of metal, the handle should be of wood, ivory, or some other bad conductor, to keep it cool for the hand. 4038. That a tea-pot should pour well, it is absolutely necessai-y that either the lid should not fit quite tight, or that a small hole should be made in it. If the lid be quite tight, and there is no perforation, it is obvious that no water can be poured out, since no air can enter to supply its place. This hole is easily concealed by some ornament. 4039. Tea-kettles for supplying boiling water for tea have been employed since the first introduction of this beverage, ac- j.-,^. 574. cording to the practice of the Chinese. They are made of a variety of forms, sizes, and materials, according to the ^^-^ }|___gL- particular places they are intended for. The largest and strongest for the kitchen are of copper, or cast iron ; fig. 573. and 574.; smaller tea-kettles for the same place are made of tin, that is, of tinned sheet iron. The sheets of tinned plate used for tin tea-kettles are cut out to the proper shape, and are fastened together with a solder that easily melts with the heat of the.fire. If such a kettle, fig. 575., be put on the fire with a sufficient quantity of water, the solder of the joints would not melt, because this being a movable body, carries off the greater part of the heat from the metal, and does not become hot I enough for the solder to melt. If, however, the kettle should remain on the fire with very little water, it is evident that the solder which fixes the spout, made also of tin plate, will not be protected ; and should the flame be permitted to reach this part, the spout becomes unsoldered, wholly, or in part, and the kettle leaks, an accident well known to happen too frequently.