BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. C80 the latter, it is not desirable to carry the fermentation as far as possible, for the reasons which we stated when treating on brewing; but in distilling spirits, they endeavour to carry the fermentation to the utmost limit, and decompose the whole of the saccharine matter, in order to obtain all the spirit they can, the quantity of this being just in proportion to the decomposition. 3836. The wort is drawn off and cooled in the usual way, and fresh water poured on to exhaust the grain. The wort thus formed is not so transparent as that from malt, but its taste is nearly as sweet. It would appear, therefore, that the starch in the raw grain undergoes a certain change during the mashing, and is brought towards the state of saccharine matter, as if it had been malted — a curious fact, which was first discovered by the distillers. The wort is then put into the fermenting tun at a low temperature, varying from .'55° to 70°, according to the quantity, the season, the goodness of the yeast, and the skill of the distiller. Here it is mixed successively with considerable portions of the best yeast that can be procured from a previous fermentation of the same kind, and the fermentation is urged as far as it can be made to go without danger of acetification. This process generally lasts about ten days, and the temperature rises usually to between 90° and 100°, and sometimes higher. 3837. By this fermentation the saccharine matter is converted into alcohol, and the liquor which is produced is what the distillers call wash.' This wash is now put into the still, and the produce of the distillation is a very weak and foul spirit, called singlings, or by some, loiu wines, or spirits of'the first extraction. These low wines are re-distilled, or, as it is called, doubled; what comes over first is a fiery spirit, tolerably pure, c2Md first shot; the part which comes afterwards is called malt spirit, which is slightly impregnated with the essential oil of the barley, and is received till its gravity diminishes to a certain degree, and it begins to acquire an ill taste and smell. What comes over afterwards, and which is too strong of the essential oil of the grain, is called faints; and this is mixed with low wines, and rectified or submitted to a second distillation. The lower the heat, the purer will be the spirit that comes over, and the more certainly will the fetid essential oil be left behind in the water. The grains and the liquor which remain in the still after the singlings or low wines have been drawn off are called still bottoms, and are used to feed pigs, which, on that account, are often kept by distillers. 3838. In distilling, it is an object of economy to ascertain luhat substance will afford the most spirit in proportion to its price. Barley appears to produce less spirit than wheat; aud if three parts of raw wheat be mixed with one of malted barley, the produce is said to be particularly fine. This is the practice of the distillers in Holland in making the best Geneva; but in England they are prohibited from using more than one part of wheat to two of other grain. Rye, however, affords more spirit than wheat. In Scotland, it is the practice to use one part of malted to from four to nine parts of unmalted grain. It is reckoned that it requires a hundred gallons of malt wash to produce twenty of spirit that contains sixty parts of alcohol and fifty of water. 3839. The well-known whiskey is distilled from a fermented liquor or wash made from malt, or malt and raw grain, either barley or oats. Wheat is sometimes used, but its high price in general limits its distillation. The peculiar flavour of Scotch and Irish whiskey has generally been supposed to be owing to the malt having been dried by turf; this does not, however, appear to be the case, since Mr. Donovan states, that he was informed by an Irish distiller of the famous " Potteen whiskey," that the flavour was the same whether the malt was made with turf or coal. There can be little doubt that this flavour is produced by essential oil produced during distillation, which combines with the alcohol in making the wash, and which rises with the spirit in distilling with a low heat. This essential oil was obtained in small quan- tities, and mentioned long ago by Dr. Thomson, of Glasgow, and lately a method has been found out of procuring it by an easy process ; it is extremely pungent, and a small drop is sufficient to impregnate a large quantity of pure spirit with the precise odour and flavour of whiskey. The production of this essential oil is completely prevented in the fermentation of beer by the presence of the volatile oil of the hops. 3840. To make whiskey, a wash is made by fermenting the materials mentioned above; this is distilled ; and the spirit first obtained, or the low wines, are weak. They are re- distilled, and the spirit so procured is whiskey, the strength of which is then about twenty- five per cent, above proof. Several places in Scotland and Ireland have been long celebrated for their superiority in the manufacture of this potent liquor. Dr. Thomson observes {Sup. Eiici/c. Brit.) that Lowland Scotch distillers use porter-yeast in the fermenting of their wash, which gives a bad flavour to their whiskey ; and that one cause of the superiority of the Highland whiskey (which has been termed " mountain dew") is that the distillers there, particularly the smugglers, have not the means of procuring porter-yeast from London. In Scotland and Ireland, much of the spirit produced by the distiller is con- sumed in the stale of whiskey, and there are but comparatively few rectifiers in those countries; but much also is sent to l-ondou to be made into gin.