Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. 762 4344. Fig. 622. exhibits the plan. A, and section, B, of another construction of oven to be heated with coal. — In this the fire is made on a, a small move- able grate, made in form of a garden pot, placed in a hole in the middle of the floor, supplied with air from beneath. When the oven is heated, this grate is to be lifted out with the fire, and the aperture covered with an iron cover. The shuation of the flue is the same as in the last construction. This plan has the advantage of being easily cleaned out. The kind of coal which answers best for heating the oven is that which is called swift in burning. Scotch coal is tlierefore excellent. When Troonc coal can be procured, it is always to be preferred. The fire-place has double doors, which, of course, are of iron. 434.5. The common brick oven for baking heated with wood is the cheapest, simplest, and most durable, and consequently the fittest for cottages or small houses in the country, particularly where there is plenty of wood, or faggots to burn. When properly heated, it is superior to any other, and possesses what bakers term a " soaking heat," that is, a uniform lasting heat, that penetrates the bread perfectly ; but in numerous situations, par- ticularly in towns, they are scarcely admissible, and likewise wnere wooa is scarce or expensive. 4346. Iron ovens are therefore frequently more convenient, and even more economical.— There are many persons who imagine that it is quite impossible to bake bread and pastry well in an oven of iron; but this opinion arises from want of experience. It must be observed that much more skill is required in fitting up and managing an iron oven than a brick one ; but when the former are fitted up in a proper manner, and persons under- stand the method of using them, they answer the purpose very well, and have, at the same time, many advantages in baking on a small scale. The brick oven is a long time in heating, and when used only once or twice a week it is difficult and tedious to bring it to that state which bakers consider to be the right degree; and without that the bread will be imperfectly baked; whereas iron ovens are soon heated, although the heat is more liable to be unequal, and requires more care in the management of it. Small iron ovens, very convenient for families, are usually now attached to kitchen ranges, and will be described under " kitchen furniture ;" though these seldom answer for baking bread : others are made of a portable kind; but the best iron ovens are fixed up separate on purpose for baking bread and pastry. It is essential that the circulation of the smoke and heat should go all round the oven ; and when the fire is below, they are apt to be hotter at the bottom than at the top. To defend the bottom from too great heat, it is frequently necessary to put a piece of tile or fire-stone, or a tray with sand, on the bottom of the oven. 4347. The simplest kind nf oven is a metal pot or kettle, inverted and covered with live coals. In new set- tlements, like those in Canada, the most simple contrivances are often the most desirable, as being the most easily put in practice in the infant state of society; and many a valuable hint may be borrowed from the make-shifts which necessity suggests. When an oven is not attached to the house, and there is no conve- nience for constructing one within doors, the oven is sometimes made out of doors, and wholly detached from tlie dwelling. They are built of clay, somewhat in the form of a l.irge bee.hive, and placed like it upon four f)osts stuck in the earth ; and whenever these ovens are not prepared, the bread is baked upon the hearth in arge iron pots, called Ijalce-kctUes. A fl.it iron plate, from fifteen inches to two feet in diameter, is first heated, by burning fuel on it, or by .my other nieiins. It is then swept cle.m, and a little flour is sprinkled over it, to prevent the bread from adhering. An iron kettle is then placed over this, with its mouth downwards, and a fire is kindled upon its bottom ; the sides being also surrounded by fire. The heat of this fire striking downwards through the kettle bakes the bread, pastry, meat, or whatever m.ay be required. This mode, like confined ovens, does not admit of any escape of steam ; which, in some c.ises, is an .advantage, in others, the contrary. The time necessary for t)aking can be determined only by experience; but two hours is that which bread usually requires in a common oven. -tS-IH. Obxcrvntions on bnkiri/* 7itent and pastry will be given in the description of the processes of cookery. 4.'H!). To hake property requires attention to several cirrnnjstnnces Tlte heat of the oven must be Ju^t sufficient, otherwise the bread will not be well baked. If the heat is not enough, the bread will be soft and wet, or pastv; and if tlie oven be over hot, it will form too hard a crust, which will lock up the w.ater in the bread, or this will be burnt. To ascertain when it is heated just enough demands considerable pr.ictico. There are, however, several signs which may he observed to assist the operator. Some try the heat by put- ting in a green vcsgetable : if this is scorched, the oven is too hot; but the best method is to sprinkle some flour upon the floor of the oveu ; if this takes fire, or is hnrnl bl.ark quickly, the oven is heated too much, and must be suffered to cool; when the heat is proper, the flour should only turn black, without taking fire. Every kind of flour is not proper for this test: old flour will burn with a heal that will scarcely bl.arken new flour, and will therefore lead to an error. Tlie newest flour is the most proper for trying the heat of the oven', lixpcriencod bakers form an opinion of the proper heat of the oven from the apneiirauce of the brick, work in the arched roof; when that is sulficiently hot, it has burned aw.ay the soot whicli lodged upon it when the fire wa« first kindled, .and has become quite clean. Also, if the point of a stick be placed on the heated bricks, it will t.ake fire, and by rubbing the charcoal will make a black mark; but this mark will disappear instiintly by being burnt ofl' if the bricks .are sufficiently hot. 4:i.')0. Experiments have been made to ascertain what is the acttial degree of heal in a baker s oven, when nt for baking Ijread ; .ind It has been stated to be about 270°, which is above the heat of boiling water. The b.ikcr's ovvn has .i/rordcd some remarkable fuels, dcmonstrnllve of what the human constitution is capable of