810 Book XI. GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. m a copper, or some vessel over a closed fire-place, as it is easier to regulate the heat in this manner than with a kitchen range; on this account, boiling by means of steam is advantageous for economy. In boiling in water it is sufficient if the joint be quite covered with it; there is nothing gained by a larger vessel; indeed, when that is small, the liquor becomes a kind of broth that may be useful. As the water wastes by evaporation, it must be replenished by the addition of some cold water, but better by warm water if that is at hand. 4648. In giving directions for hading vegetables, there is sometimes a little confusion, some recommending soft, and others hard water. This can only be cleared up by attend- ing to the chemistry of the subject. Soft water has a greater solvent power than hard; and when the object is to extract the juices of vegetables, soft water must be used ; as, for instance, in the making of tea or barley-water; but when the juices are not to be ex- tracted, but preserved in the vegetable, then hard water is proper enough, as containing salts which lessen its solvent powers; accordingly, we observe that the cook throws a handful of salt into the water in which she boils her vegetables, which has the effect, although probably she is not aware of it, of making it hard. Vegetables to be digestible should be well boiled ; and some recommend boiling them in two waters. An analogous observation is made in boiling meat, which is more juicy and tender when hard water is employed than when soft is used, because the solvent power of the latter extracts too much the juices of the meat. "With respect to fish, as firmness after boiling is a desirable quality, hard or salt water is decidedly the best; and the cooks put salt into the water, to prevent the fish being soft. 4649. Boiling, although the simplest mode of cooking, vas probably not the first invented. To make water hot enough for boiling requires vessels to contain it th.it will resist the fire. It is remarkable that the inhabitants of the I'ellew Islands, when discovered by Captain Wilson, though they baked their meat and fish, were not only unacquainted with the art of boiling food, but were ignorant that water could be made boiling hot, having no vessels in which it could be heated. Some nations, as the Ksquiin.iux, have, however, found out methods of boiling water by hollowing out vessels in a natural substance called potstoue; and others have contrived to boil in wooden vessels by throwing red hot stones into the water. Stewing 4650. Stewing differs from boiling in this, that the heat is never to be raised to the boiling point, but only to a very gentle simmering, with a very small quantity of water. Of course, it requires much longer time to cook in this manner; but in stewing, the texture of meat is rendered more tender; the gelatinous parts are more completely dis- solved ; and instead of a considerable part going into the water, as in boiling, the whole of the juices are preserved in the stew, which is therefore very nutritious. Dr. Prout is of opinion, that one of the operations of the gastric fluid is not only to dissolve the aliment taken into the stomach, but to cause its combination with water preparatory to the de- composition which it is to undergo, in order to be separated into those elementary prin- ciples from which new combinations are to be afterwards prepared by the animal organs ; now the process of stewing effects a good deal of this, and therefore leaves less for the operations of the stomach. Stewing is therefore found to be not only a very perfect mode of cooking, but also very economical, because a very small quantity of fuel properly applied, is sufficient to keep up the simmering for a great length of time. In Continental cookery, this method is very much practised, and some of their contrivances are highly deserving of imitation, particularly by the working classes, and others with whom economy of fuel and time is an object. Soup. 4651. In treating, in this place, on the making of soup, it is not our intention to encroach upon the province of the cook, to whom practical directions, in a future part of the work, will be given for preparing various dishes of this sort. Our object, at present, is to con- sider it generally as a particular mode of cooking, and cliiefly to point out some chemical principles connected with it, which should be understood by those who are desirous of examining the subject with a view to public objects. 4652. Soups may be described as decoctions, more or less strong, of animal and vege- table substances, generally of meat with vegetables, and seasoned with salt, spices, &c. They may be made in an infinity of ways ; there is no end to the combinations of meat, fish, vegetables, spices, and mucilage, with water ; but of aU meats for making soup, beef is esteemed one of the best. In our description of boiling and stewing, we stated that the gelatine of raw meat is softened by the heat, and is dissolved by the water; but not so the albumen, that being insoluble in water. Soup, therefore, contains the first of these principles, but not the latter, which remains attached to the meat. Iksides the gelatine, soup made with vege- tables contains also the soluble principles extracted from them, of which mucilage is the most abundant. Both the gelatine and the mucilage combine readily with water, and like- wise with each other; but the fat of the meat, which melts with the heat, will not, as is