ON MAKING BREAD. Book IX. 748 4253. In wet seasons, corn, but more particularly barley, from its rapid growth, is liable to sprout or germiuate more or less, even in the grain ; and it will sometimes throw out young green leaves while still in the ear. The consequence of this germination is, that the corn when threshed heats and ferments, and the starch of the grain becomes partially converted into saccharine matter; the grain, in fact, being in some degree malted while yet growing. When this is the case, the gluten as well as the starch is affected, and flour made of such grain will not ferment readily for bread. This germination of the grain can only be stopped by drying it either in a kiln or an oven. 42,54. The loss of gluten almost entirely destroys the adhesive power of wheat flour, and it then forms only a sort of pap or soft matter, instead of presenting that consistency and elasticity which distinguish flour of good quality, and which are of such consequence in the making of wheaten bread, as will be shown when we treat of the fermenting of bread. 4255. Wlien flour is (jenuine, or of the best kind, it holds together in a mass when squeezed by the hand, and shows the impressions of the fingers and even of the marks of the skin, much longer than when it is bad or adulterated; and the dough made with it is very gluey, ductile, and elastic, easy to be kneaded, and which may be elongated, flat- tened, and drawn in every direction without breaking. 425G. A method has been pointed out by M. Taddii, an Italian chemist, by which bad flour tehich has stfffered from keeping may be detected. The gluten which remains in the hand on kneading it in water, consists of two principles, both of which are essential to good flour. If some of this gluten be digested in boiling alcohol, or even kneiided by the hand in alcohol, a part will be dissolved, which is the proper gluten, and has beeu nAxncA gliadine ; what remains undissolved is the vegetable albumen, and has been named sywiowe, from a Greek word signifying ferment. If some of the latter, moistened, be rubbed in a mortar with powder of guaiacum, a beautiful greenish blue colour will appear after a few minutes. As this principle zymome is always present in good flour, the same colour, though less brilliant, will be produced when the flour itself is so treated with guaiacum; but with flour spoiled by keeping, and in which the gluten has sufltered spontaneous decomposition, no colour, or very little, will be perceivable. This guaiacum may be made a test of the good- ness 01 flour by the brightness of the colour produced. 4257. Flour after being ground is put into sacks, each sack containing five bushels, and weighing two hundred and eighty pounds ; this will produce"about three hundred and forty-seven pounds of bread. 4258. The great corn market in London is the Corn JExchange in Mark Lane, where, on Mondays and Fridays, samples of grain tied up in small bags are sent by farmers and corn-merchants, with a label on each, stating the numbers of quarters and the places where they are deposited. To this market the millers, mealmen, and corn-chandlers resort, and the business is transacted by brokers. In most of the country towns the corn is exposed in bulk by the farmer, by which the purchaser is better enabled to judge of the quality. , 4259. Tlic price of flour ought to be according to the price of wheat; but it is said to be often kept up in London by mismanagement or monopoly. It is considerably cheaper in many parts of the country than in the metropolis. SuBSECT. 5. — Yeast. 4260. The nature of yeast, called also baj-m in the North, has been fully explained under " Fermentation," and again under " Brewing ;" and it is sufiicient here to remind the reader that it is the frothy substance that rises to the surface during the fermenting of malt liquors ; it contains the fermenting principle, which is the cause of what is called the risitig of the dough in making bread by the disengagement of carbonic acid g<is. Yeast for baking is generally procured from the brewer, if there be one sufficiently near; but it must be from the brewing of ale; that from porter would prove too bitter. Yeast from home-brewed ale is generally excellent. In large capitals, such as London and Edinburgh, yeast for baking is so much in demand, that it is prepared expressly for the use of the baker, and" its manufacture becomes a sepa- rate trade. In large baking establishments the bakers prepare it themselves. It is of the first importance in the preparation of bread that the yeast should be of the best kind ; and it should not be above twenty-four hours old. It may sometimes happen that yeast cannot be procured from a brewer, and that it is necessary to make it by some process. The following is the general method ; but some more particular receipts will be given in Section VIII. Proceed with a small quantity of malt ;is if you were brewing beer; mash, boil with hops, and cool ; then add some brewers' yeast to ferment with, and at the same time mix with the wort a quantity of flour. Fermentation will ensue, and a high head of yeast will be obtained; when this begins to fall it is strained through a sieve and is fit for use. 42(11. // sometimes happens that the yeast is found to mahe the bread Ion hitler. When this is suspected to be the case, it may be deprived of its bitterness in the following manner : mix it with a considerable quantity of water .md set It by to rest for some hours, when the thickest part will subside to the bottom ; pour off the water on the top, and use only the stiff yoHst that has settled. . f„,„ „i,i. Yeast from the brewer Is improved for the purpose of baking by bcUig mixed up with three or four Ublo