Chap. IV. 603 ON MAKING WINE. be continued longer before tbe wine becomes perfect. It is said that the fermentation is most perfect-where large quantities of must are operated upon. Lately, it has become the custom to increase the fermentation, when it is required, by the addition of starch sugar, which is of the same kind as that of the grape. 3405. After the first fermentation has continued for a sufficient time, according to the kind of wine to be made, it is then racked ofiF or transferred to casks to suffer a slow fermentation, generally termed, not very correctly, the insensible fermentation; but care must be taken not to pour oS the lees which have settled to the bottom, nor the yeast on the top. . . „ „ ,, When first put into the casks, the wine still contains a portion of fermentable matter, which, though not sufficient to produce the very visible effects of ordinary fermentation, is yet sufficient to occasion a slower state of this process, which continues a longer or a shorter time, according to circumstances. During this second fermentation in the casks, the wine becomes turbid, and there is a slight internal motion of the fluid, yeast is thrown off by the bung, and the casks are kept always full that it may pass out upon forming. The management of this second fermentation must depend upon various circumstances, chiefly the kind of wine to be manufactured. 3406. When the fermentation in the casks has coniimtsd till the wine is properly depurated by throwing off the yeast, the bungs are driven in tight, and the wine is left to deposit its tartar, which it does in consequence of an extremely slow fermentation, which often continues for a long time, during which the wine is ameliorated by a more intimate combination of the alcohol with the acid and mucilage ; this frequently requires several years in the wood. 3407. Another effect of this prolonged insensible fermentation is the gradual increase of the quantity of alcohol, and the farther separation of the insoluble salt, the bitartrate of potash, called tartar, which subsides, adhering to and lining the bottom and sides of the casks as lees. As the taste of tartar is harsh and disagreeable, it is evident that the wine will be improved by being deprived of it, and hence old wine is preferable to new. There is, however, sometimes a danger in putting the liquor into the casks before it has had sufficient time to ferment in the vat. If the unfermented matter is in too large a quantity, it will ferment violently in the casks and become turbid, and if it be put into bottles, will probably break them. Again, if the fermentation has been carried too far, there is a chance of the liquid souring and turning to vinegar. A portion of the colouring matter, as well as tartar, is also precipitated, adhering to the sides of the cask ; the wine is mellowed, and the aroma and flavour that are peculiar to it become more apparent. These changes are sometimes accelerated by various artificial means, especially by the agitation of the lees, which always contain a portion of the fer- ment, and by the assistance of artificial heat. Hence the reason why certain strong and austere wines are so much improved and mellowed by being exported in the lees to a warm climate, as is the case in carrying Madeira to the West Indies, or in subjecting it to the effect of local motion of any kind with heat, as is now practised in the island of Madeira. On the contrary, the lighter and more delicate wines are injured by the motion ■ even of removal to any distance, and therefore can be drunk in perfection only in the I countries where they are grown. 3408. To prevent this renewal of the fermentation, therefore, after a certain time, when 1 most of the lees has been thrown down, and it is thought the wine has acquired a sufficient I degree of maturity, it is poured off into a clean cask, which process is technically called 1 racking, which is a method of transferring the fluid without disturbing the sediment. 3409. After this, should there appear to be any risk of the fermentation beginning I again, a process is employed called stilphuring, which consists in burning sulphur matches • within the cask ; the sulphurous acid gas thus produced is absorbed by the wine, and this 1 has the effect of stopping the fermentation. In some places this latter process is varied 1 by strongly impregnating a small quantity of wine with this gas, which they then call ! stum wine, which they put into the cask for the same purpose. 3410. Sometimes, after these operations are finished, the wine is not completely clear, : and requires to be clarified or fined by isinglass, whites of egg, or substances of that kind, i Finally, the whole is completed by bottling. 3411. TTie fermentative process, as well as every part of the manufacture of wine, requires great attention united to experience and skill, and it varies exceedingly in different places; »so that although the subject has received considerable elucidation and improvement from t the labours of Chaptal and other eminent chemists, particularly^in France, where perhaps t the best wine-makers in the world are to be found, yet the French themselves allow that rthere is still much to be done before fixed rules can be given; and our object here is r rather to touch upon the prominent facts in the manufacture of foreign wines, than to. enter into minute details.