ON MAKING BREAD. 744 Book IX. substances produced by otlier diseases to which corn is liable ; or it may be composed of sand, eartli, grains partially destroyed by insects, &c. It is cleaned from sand or any other foreign matter by putting it into a revolving hollow cylinder made of wire cloth. From that it passes into the screen for the purpose of cutting off the fine fleecy down which is found at the rough end of the grain, as it is named by the millers. The screen is a cylinder of sheet iron punched full of holes from the outside, the burr pointing inwards like a grater. Within this is another cylinder having the holes punched outwards from the inside; consequently the two burrs point towards each other. The space between the two is about five eighths of an inch wide, and in this space is the corn. By the action of the burrs during the rotation of the cylinder, the round end of the grain is rasped off, and it falls out through the holes. The next cleansing process is by the joggling screen and Jans; this screen has a wire bottom, and is put into a joggling motion by the mill; the corn is completely sifted by this, and the fans blow off any dirt that may adhere. Various machines have been contrived for cleaning com completely, but the most effectual seems to be one for which a patent has been lately obtained by Mr. Herbert, who calls it a " scouring, washing, and separating machine." The grain to be cleaned is mixed with some sharp sand, very well washed and sifted, so as to consist only of particles from a sixteenth to a thirtieth of an inch in diameter, in the proportion of five shovels full of grain to one of sand, the latter in a wet state. The whole is then put into the scouring cylinder, which is turned round for a few minutes, that the angles of the sand may rub off the impurities from the grain; after this the grain is transferred to a 'arge sieve working under water, by which the sand is completely separated again from the grain that has been cleared. The sand falls through the sieve, and the bad grain floats to the top. SuBSECT. 3. — Chdnding and dressing the Flour. 423.3. Milb for grinding corn into meal or fiour are of a variety of constructions. We have in our " history of bread " described the ancient Roman hand-miU, stiU used in many parts of the world. 4234. The ordinanj corn mills in the present day are driven either by water, wind, or steam. The two first powers appear to have been known to the ancients ; the latter is a modern invention. Whatever be the nature of the moving power, the grinding appa- ratus is the same. It consists of two circular stones, placed very near each other (^^^r. 616.), the lower one, a, fixed, and the upper one, 6, revolving ; the grain being crushed and ground between them. The upper Vis- 616. gj-iiKiing surface of the nether miU-stone is a little convex, as is shown in the annexed woodcut; and the lower or grinding surface of the upper stone is a little more concave, so that the two stones are a little farther from each other in the middle than at the edges. The corn to be ground is put into a hopper, c, above the mill-stones, and it falls down through a hole in the upper one into the space between the two. By this means the corn is at its first entrance between the mill-stones only bruised ; but as it goes further towards the circumference or edge, it is cut smaller and smaller, and at last finally ground ; when it flies out from the stones, by virtue of what is termed the centrifugal force, and is received into a circular tray or other vessel. In order to grind the corn, both mill-stones have their grinding surfaces cut into grooves or channels. Wlien these furrows become blunt by wearing, the stones are new dressed with a chisel. The mill-stones require to be of very hard stone, not to wear away soon: when they are of too soft a material, tliere is not only the inconvenience attending wearing, but the sand formed from the stone mixes with the flour. Previously to the wheat being ground in the mill, it is dried to a certain degree in a kiln by spreading it on a perforated tile floor. 4 235. Before we treat of domestic grinding, it is proper that we should describe the various sorts of flour as they are usually prepared, as well as the principle upon which the distinction of the various qualities of coarseness and fineness of bread in common use is founded. 4236. // was formerly ike custom for the baker to purchase the wheat and give it to the miller to grind. The miller separated it into three parts ; flour, pollard, and bran. The /iron was the outside of the grain ; it was not used for human food, but only given to iiorscs. The pollard was tlie portion of the grain next the husk, as described above ; and the flour, at an average, amounted to three fourths of the grain. But by insensible degrees the manufacture of bread became separated into two distinct employments : that of the ineaiman, who bought the wheat and ground the flour ; and that of the baker, who converted it into bread. This led to greater variety of sorts in the manufacture of flour,