RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOKERY. Chap. III. 925 you desire when produced at table, as they swell in boiling. Poach them for two or three minutes. These are plain ; but, if you prefer it, chopped vegetables may be added. 5359. Curry balls. —These are composed of the plain egg balls, mixed with some of the prepared panada, with the addition of curry powder, well incorporated together. 53C0. Sausage balls. — Ordinary sausage-meat is to be beaten smooth in the mortar and incorporated with yolk and white of egg. ... 5361. Balls for mock turtle soup Pound some veal in a marble mortar; rub it through a sieve with as much of the udder as you have of ve.il, or about a third quantity of butter. IVloisten some bread crumbs in milk, and add some chopped parsley and eschalot, rubbing the whole together till it form a stiff paste. When cold, pound and mix all together with the yolks of three eggs boiled hard j season it with salt, pepper, and curry powder or Cayenne ; add to it the yolk of two raw eggs, rub it well together, and make small balls. Ten minutes before your soup is ready to serve, put them in. Sect. VI. GRAVIES, SAUCES, AND PUREES. SuBSECT. 1.— Gfravies. .5362. Jus de bceuf. — See " Beef Gravy," " English Cooking." 5363. Blond de veau. — See " Veal Gravy." 5364. White and brown roux.—See " English Cooking." 5365. Coulis. —Make the coiilis in the same manner as veal gravy, with slices of ham and veal, &c. When the glaze made of the gravy is of a fine colour, moisten it and let it stew. Season it with parsley, green onions, and mushrooms. Mix some brown roux with it; hut do not make it too thick, or the fat will not be readily removed, and a fat gravy or sauce is never agreeable. After adding the roux, let it simmer gently for an hour. Skim off the fat, and strain it. Coulis of fish, game, or poultry, is made in the same manner. SuBSECT. 2. — Sauces. 5366. Sauce Robert, for roast pork or goose. — Cut into dice a few onions, and fry them lightly in butter. When they begin to brown, add a dessert-spoonful of flour, a ladleful of stock, the same of vinegar, some salt and pepper. Pulp the whole through a sieve, and reduce it to a proper thickness. When ready for table, have two spoonfuls of made mustard. In addition to these ingredients. Dr. Kitchener recommends two dessert- spoonfuls of mushroom catsup, or the same quantity of port wine. 5367. Sauce Espagnole Put into a stew-pan slices of ham and veal ; moisten and warm them. Let the glaze produced go to the bottom. When turning of a good red colour, add a little consomme to detach the glaze from the stew-pan. Pour in some coulis; boil the whole half an hour; skim off the fat, and strain it. In all sauces, remember to add mushrooms, a bunch of parsley, and green onions. 5368. Espagnole of game. — This is prepared in the same w,ay, trimmings of game being added to the veal and ham. 5369. Sauce tournee. — Moisten some white roux with veal gravy, into which put some mushrooms, parsley, and green onions ; let them gently stew by the side of the fire until the vegetables have given out their good- ness ; then skim off the fat, and strain it. If this sauce be further reduced by evaporation, it forms, by the addition of some cream well mixed with it, the sauce veloute. 5370. Poivrade sauce Put into a stew-pan a piece of butter the size of an egg, and some slices of carrot, turnip, and onion, two eschalots, two cloves, a bay leaf, thyme, and basil; set the pan on the fire, and stir the contents till they become finely browned ; shake in some flour; add a glass of red wine, a glass of water, a spoonful of vinegar, and pepper and salt; boil half an hour. Skim and strain it. 6371. Sauce el f Alleviande. — S^iuce d I'AlIemande is sauce tonrnee into which a liaison of two yolks of eggs is introduced. This sauce is for all the following sauces or ragouts, blanquettes of all descriptions, of veal, fowl, game, or palates. .5372. fVkite Italian sauce. — After boiling some mushrooms, throw them into water and lemon-juice to keep them white. Put into a stew-pan two-thirds of sauce tournee and one of consomme, two spoonl'uls of mushrooms chopped finely, and of which the colour h.as been preserved ; add half a spoonful of finely-minced eschalots. Reduce the same ; season it, and serve it. 5373. Brown Italian sauce—From the assiette (a dish with four compartments, in which chopped season- ings are put ready for use) tiike two spoonfuls of esch.alots, one of parsley, and two spoonfuls of chopped mush- rooms ; put them into a stew-pan with two-thirds of Espagnole sauce and one oi^ consomme : some add wliite wine^ but this sauce may be made very well without it. Put in very little salt or pepper, nor .allow the sauce to thicken. Brown sauces should not be .as thick as white. When done enough, ch.ange the stew-pan, and put it in a bain marie. Skim it with care, so as not to remove the parsley with the fat. .5.'i7'l. B^chuinclle sauce— Reduce, over a good fire, some sauce tournee ; moisten it with chicken broth or consomme, constantly stirring it to prevent its being burnt. When of a proper consistence, add two glasses of boiling cream, stirring it well in. Strain it, .and serve. 5375. Sauce am truffl-s. — Truffles, if good, ought to resist the pressure of the hjind ; If soft and gluey, and having the smell of clieese, they are not good. Take two pounds ; pick, and throw tliem into water: such as swim are not .as good as those that sink to the bottom. Break them, and throw them again into fresh w.atcr —not into hot, or they will lose flavour ; with a knife remove all specks or bits of wood upon which they had been stuck by the vendors ; wash them ag.ain until the water is no longer turbid ; peel, and cut them in slices or dice ; put them in a stew-pan with a piece of butter over a slttvv fire; let them swe.at, and moisten them with half a glass of wine and two spoonfuls of reduced Espagnole ; simmer them gently over a Blow fire, adding more butter ; skim it, and stir it well; put no lemon-juice, as th.at would talie off the soft- ness of the sauce. .5376. Sauce piquantc. — Put two or three spoonfuls of Espagnole or coulis into a stew-pan, with a spoonful of white vinegar, a bay leaf, a clove of garlic, a little thyme, a clove, some brotli, and a llttlo salt; boil it half an hour; skim it, and p.ass it through the tammy.