896 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. must be continued until tlic mixture becomes of a gold colour ; then it must be poured into a clean earthen pan, and put into a cool place. If this be boiled over a very quick fire It may acquire a burnt taste, which would spoil its flavour, as well as that of soups thickened with it. .5102. To clarify stock If the soups and gravies to be formed out of stock are to be clear and transparent, it should first be clarified. For this purpose two eggs, the shells, whites, and yolks together, must be pounded, and then added to the soup to be boiled in it for about ten minutes. The whole must then be poured through a tamis or a fine sieve. Two eggs will clear three quarts of soup. It is to be observed, that Dr. Kitchener con- siders this mode of clearing soups as less effectual than that of carefully scumming them when boiling, as recommended above. For portable soups, see Book X., " Preservation of Food." RECEIPTS FOR SOUPS. .5103. Ox-clieek soup. —Break the bones and wash the cheek thoroughly ; put it into a large stew-pan with two ounces of butter at the bottom; let the fleshy part of the cheek be downwards ; add half a pound of lean ham cut in thin slices, four heads of celery, three large onions, two carrots, one parsnep (all sliced and cut small), three blades of mace. Put the stew-pan over a moderate fire for a quarter of an hour ; then put in four quarts of warm water and let it simmer till reduced to two; take out the head, and strain off the soup clear from the vegetables, and use a little browning to improve the colour ; add the white part of a head of celery cut small and previously boiled; scald two ounces of ver- micelli, put it to the soup, and boil altogether for ten minutes ; pour it into the tureen over a French roll and serve it. 5104. Ox-tail soup. —Divide two ox-tails into separate joints, and lay them to soak in warm water to extract the blood ; then put them on to stew gently in a quart of water and a pint of beef stock; when they begin to boil remove the scum, and introduce the vegetables, which are to consist of four moderately sized onions, in one of which stick half a dozen cloves and a few corns of black pepper, two turnips, and a large carrot sliced, a head of celery, sweet herbs, a bunch of parsley, and a piece of lemon-peel. Let all these stew together until the tails are sufficiently tender, when they are to be picked out and reserved. To the remaining liquor and vegetables add two quarts of beef stock, and let them continue to simmer about an hour; then strain the soup and remove all fat; now put in the tails, and boil gently for twenty minutes ; a little before you remove it from the fire, add a wine-glassful of port wine, and one of catsup, with salt and cayenne pepper. —N. B. Always rather under-season soups, as additional salt and cayenne may be added at table, if required. 5105. Mullagatawny soup. — It is best prepared by stewing down for the stock a couple of old fowls with vegetables, estimating one fowl to each quart of soup. When these have been sufficiently boiled, strain off the liquor, and have ready prepared a young and tender fowl cut into convenient pieces in the same manner as giblets are divided; thicken the soup with butter, flour, curry powder, and the livers of the fowls previously parboiled and well beat together in a mortar ; then put in the pieces of fowl, and let it simmer about an hour ; season as usual. 5106. Mock turtle soup. — When you receive the calf's head, detach the scalp, and separate the tongue ; wash the latter in cold water, and then in warm, to draw out the blood ; put these into a stew-pan with two quarts of water and a little salt; let it simmer gently, removing the scum, and peeling the tongue at the convenient opportunity ; let them boil until tender, in the mean time divide the head and take out the brains (which may be employed for a side-dish) ; wash the head well, and lay it in warm water to soak out the blood. Crack the bones of the head and jaws, that they may lie in a smaller compass, and cleanse the bones of the nose. Have ready another stew-pan lined at the bottom with slices of fat ham or bacon; put in the head, together with the vegetables, consisting of sliced turnips and onions, one of them whole stuck with a few corns of pepper and four cloves, the white part of two leeks, two table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, a bunch of sweet herbs, the rind of half a lemon, and a little salt; moisten with some veal stock, and set it on the fire to heat gently. When the scnlp and tongue in the other stew-pan are sufficiently done, take them out and divide them into convenient pieces; add the liquor in which they have been boiled to the head and vegetables, and let them simmer for two hours. Prepare tlie forcemeat balls in the following manner : Pound some lean veal in a mortar, and when it becomes an uniform mass, add crumb of bread, a little minced eschalot, chopped parsley, and mushroom powder, the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, cayenne pepper and salt; beat tbcse with the yolks of two raw eggs and sufficient flour to form a paste of proper consistence, which roll into balls ; boil them a few minutes in salt and water to harden. When the head and vegetables have stewed the prescribed time, strain off the liquor and remove all fat. Add veal stock sufficient to