• Chap. XV. EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY. 301 At Vienna there is a royal porcelain marrafacture in high esteem, and some of the smaller ! states of Germany can boast of similar establishments. l;J2S. What has been called Reaumur's porcelain consists merely of glass vessels which Ihave been heated to a red heat in sand, and then allowed to cool very slowly ; when it is I found that the glassy structure is destroyed, and the vessels are converted into a white > opaque substance resembling stoneware or porcelain. These vessels are then much more . difficult to melt than glass, and have the advantage of resisting changes of temperature to : a considerable degree. It does not appear, however, that they have been brought into 1 use, or that there is any manufacture of them. They are, of course, not porcelain. Principal porcelain manufactories in England. At Derby and in Colebrook such establish- 1 ments have long existed. Subsequently, Worcester has become celebrated for its porce- 1 lain, and the superior kinds of earthenware, where, at Chamberlain's royal porcelain works, I the painting and gilding have been carried to a considerable degree of perfection. York- • shire has also a china work at Swinton near Rotherham ; and another exists at Rocking- 1 ham, where some articles have been made of great beauty. It is difficult to pronounce I upon the comparative merits of these, as the porcelain of each manufactory excels in some ] particular quality. One had been carried on formerly for some years at Nungarrow, in Wales, where the wares produced are considered to have been superior to any that have 1 been manufactured in this kingdom ; but the public patronage was not sufficient, and it ■ was discontinued. The amateurs and collectors of porcelain now give greater prices for ! Nungarrow porcelain, than when the manufactory existed. Iron stoiie china is a new ' variety of ware, which has some valuable properties : it is extremely strong, and resem- 1 bles the older and coarser porcelains of China. Its composition is said to be 60 parts j granite, 40 China clay, 2 flint glass ; glaze, 30 parts granite, 15 flints, 6 red lead, and .5 i soda. 1329. The present fashion in porcelain appears to he to revive that style which, though ) prevalent about a century ago, became almost obsolete, yielding to a purer taste derived I from the study of Grecian art. The Dresden porcelain was more remarkable for the 1 excellence of the material, and the mechanical skill displayed in the modelling a variety 1 of forms of difficult execution, and likewise for the colouring and gilding, than for the J good taste displayed in general in the choice of subjects and the forms produced. Although i occasionally there was considerable skill exhibited in them as works of art, and figures ; and flowers of various classes were executed in porcelain with a delicacy of finish truly : admirable, and such as had never before been even attempted in such materials ; yet the t taste degenerated too often into the puerile, and the public appears to have been tired and 'Satiated at length with shepherds and shepherdesses leading young lambs, and the in- I numerable conceits and grotesque absurdities executed for the mantel-piece, and which .are yet ti-easured up in old china shops. Not confined within the limited range of sub- jject and form in the imitation of the antique style of pottery, every thing was attempted in 1 porcelain thai the modeller could execute. The brilliancy of the colours and the gilding t employed in its decoration often drew the attention from the bad taste displayed in the ^subjects, and gaudiness and ostentatious finery took place of the modest but exquisite I elegance of ancient art. This, in fact, corresponded with the general style of the period >when these works were executed. The improvement of taste, by the study of antique rremains, at length drove these from the field, and consigned them to the collector's closet. ■ The revival of these species of porcelain in its original freshness, but without its worst I peculiarities, appears at present to have fascinated the public, and has given the semblance I of novelty to a style which is far from being new, and is producing a change which it is cdifficult or impossible to speculate upon. One circumstance may be regretted, that the ffine things executed under Wedgwood are disappearing fast, without the substitution of '■what can bear a comparison with them; and what is now executing instead, not demand- iing those accomplished artists which he had the liberality and the spirit to patronise, the lart of pottery cannot be expected to rise, at least in point of design. But it must be ad- imitted, nevertheless, that nothing can exceed the richness of the painting and gilding on rmodern services of plates, dishes, and other vessels for the table. To be comprehended, 'they must be seen in their numerous repositories and show rooms in the shops of the nie- itropolis, to which we must refer the reader, who will be gratified by an examination of ithe numerous articles of this kind, both English and foreign. To treat of them in detail 'would far exceed the limits of our present work. SuBSECT. 4. — Purchasing and mending China. 1330. In purchasing china, it is well to deal with shops that are supplied from known Mind respectable sources ; for a great deal of badly manufactured goods, such as we have ddescribed, is sold in this kingdom at low prices, frequently hawked about by pedlars, in •which the glaze is so slight as to crack after being cleaned a few times in hot water. 1331. When holes are required to be drilled in china or earthenware, for the purpose ol