SICKNESS IN THE NURSERY. 1205 .-Chap. IL sequence, and will frequently disappear -with a dose or two of aperient medicine, or often without anything at all. In older children, and when more obstinate, it may sometimes be suspected to depend on an acescent, or at any rate, altered, state of the milk. Another skin affection of little consequence is a blush of redness, with perhaps a little excoriation {Intertrigo'), caused by neglect of proper cleanliness, and in parts rubbing on each other; it is easily cured by cleanliness, and the use of some simple ointment to diminish friction. 7141. The next affection we shall notice is vomiting in the first months of life. This often arises simply from repletion, or from temporary alteration in the milk of the nurse : the matter vomited is like milk, generally curdled, if it has been for half an hour or so in the stomach, and in colour white or slightly yellow. If it be hard, darkish, very yellow, in fact much altered from the natural appearance of milk, then probably the cause is to be looked for in insufiacient evacuation of the bowels, (which should always after birth be acted upon,) or perhaps the infant has been incautiously exposed to cold. In the first instance, (when the vomited matter is simply returned milk,) a little dill or aniseed water may be given ; but often nothing more is required than to take care that the child does not suck too much at a time, or too greedily after fasting. If the vomited matter be dark and hard, and if the child be old enough, it is often necessary to give an emetic; a grain of ipecacuanha is a safe and gentle emetic for children of a month old ; two grains may be given when the child is a year or more old. Should the vomiting still continue, a more dangerous cause than those now mentioned is to be apprehended, and no time should be lost in seeking medical assistance. 7142. Another extremely common and slight afiFection is Colic. The child cries, starts when moved, and lies with its legs drawn up upon its bowels; there is much flatulence, the bowels are probably confined; when motions are procured, instead of the natural yellow, they are green or dark. In treating colic, the cause should always be attended to ; too much healthy milk or acid milk, or improper spoon-meat, or insufficient evacuation, or exposure to cold, are among the most common causes ; if the milk be in too great abun- dance, its quantity must be lessened; if it be acid, or if the spoon-meat be improper, its quality must be altered ; cold must be avoided; the bowels must be opened by calcined magnesia, with or -without a little castor oil: rhubarb is too stimulating for very yoimg children ; warm fomentations should be applied by means of flannels, wrung out of warm water. If the bowels are not moved, then medical aid is generally requisite, as sometimes, though fortunately rarely, colic passes into a dangerous disease, in which a portion of intestine slips down into the part immediately below it, and thus closes the passage (Jntm . susception of medical writers). 7143. Diarrhaa.—Induced often by causes very similar to those which are active in colic, is a relaxed state of the bowels, or diarrhoea. It may often be traced to repletion, unhealthy milk, sudden changes of temperature. It often occurs in older children, from injudicious attempts to wean, from previous costiveness, and it is commonly said also ; from dentition, particularly of the double teeth. The motions are watery, and generally I greenish, or at least altered from the healthy colour. Although often a very trifling 1 affection, it should never be neglected, as sometimes it is difficult to check. The treat- 1 ment depends upon the cause. If bad milk has irritated the bowels it must be given up, I and asses milk, or the milk of a fresh nurse substituted, or a little beef gravy, rendered ) palatable by a little sugar, may be given ; another tolerable substitute for the nutritious ) milk of the mother is the mucilage of barley or wheat mixed with a little gravy. If the (diarrhoea result from change of diet, the infant should be fed only with the simplest food, 1 as milk, the mucilage of wheat, &c. &c. A gentle aperient will generally be sufficient to (effect a cure; should it not, other measures become necessary, and a medical man should llje consulted. 7144. Worms.—The following are some of the chief symptoms generally enumerated, I as characteristic of the presence of worms : irregular appetite, which is sometimes vora- (cious, at other times languid; there is often a craving for food after a full meal; the t bowels are sometimes costive, more generally loose ; the motions are slimy and pale ; coften there is a little colic, and sometimes feverishncss ; the breath becomes foetid ; there lis often a livid circle round and under the eyes ; after a time the child gets emaciated, land the abdomen becomes enlarged; the upper lip often becomes thickened, and some- ttimes also the nose; the child often picks its nose, and during sleep grinds its teeth. It iseldom occurs that all these symptoms happen at the same time; and there is not one {peculiar to and distinctive of worms. The most unequivocal are the irregular appetite; tthe craving for food after a full meal; the bowels at one time costive, at another relaxed, sand the slimy characters of the motions: when those symptoms are present, worms may Ibe suspected, but the only proof of their existence is seeing them in the stools. Such are Itjie symptoms of two kinds of worms, the round and the tape-worm (Lumbrica, Tcenia) : 4 H 3