1068 Book XXL JEWELLERY. Sect. V. TOPAZ. G396. The topaz is a particular species of mineral, occurring in crystals of the form of a rhombic prism, variously terminated (Jig. 815.). This prism is usually striated longitudinally. It cleaves readily at right angles to the axis of the prism. It somewhat re- sembles quartz, but is distinguished by the form of its crystals, by its superior hardness, and specific gravity. Both it and quartz scratch glass, but topaz scratches quartz. It is sometimes colourless and translucent, but usually has various pale shades of yellow, green, blue, lilac, or red. According to Vauquelin, it is composed of 50 parts alumina ; 29 silica ; and a quantity of fluoric acid, varying from 4 to 19 parts. It is found almost exclusively in the ancient primary rocks; and in Saxony, in a particular rock called Topaz Rock"; these topazes are of a pale yellow. The Brazilian topaz is of a deep yellow, and becomes red or pink in a heated crucible, and then the price is augmented; it is also found there in rolled masses. Some from Brazil are beautifully pellucid, and are called Minas Nova: these have been abundantly employed in jewellery, and produce a fine refraction of light in pins and other ornaments. When topazes are naturally red, they have been called Brazilian ruby. There are also blue topazes which have been called by lapidaries oriental aquamarine. Yellow sapphires are by jewellers called, improperly, oriental topaz ; these nearly equal the diamond. Counterfeit pink topazes are sometimes made by interposing some colour between two thin plates of clear topaz, and then setting the whole: this fraud may be sometimes detected by holding the edge of the stone against the light, when the want of colour wUl be perceived. Similar impositions are practised with other stones. Various mineral substances also, of other species, have been called topazes, and passed as such : thus, crysolite has been called yellowish green topaz, yellow rock crystal Bohemian or occidental topaz ; and clove brown, and brown crystal, have been named smoke topaz ; all these are inferior in hardness to the true topaz. The topaz is easily counterfeited in glass paste; and some of the imitations are nearly as beautiful as the real stones. Sect. VI. CHRTSOBERYL. 6397. This gem, called also Cijvwphane, is found chiefly in rounded pieces of a greenish colour, and somewhat opalescent; it is also found crystallised in prismatic forms, cleavable parallel to their sides. It is composed of 7r5 alumina ; 18 silica ; 6 lime ; and 1'5 oxide of iron. It is chiefly procured from Brazil and Ceylon. It has a particular play of light, and is so extremely hard, that it has been sometimes taken for diamond. Good specimens are rare. Sect. VIL hyacinth. 6398. This stone is sometimes, though rarely, of a brilliant appearance and colour, but is sometimes beautiful, of an orange red colour, also of various tints of yellow, brown, or grey. When deprived of its colour by heat, it is said to ■ have been sold for diamond. The best are from Ceylon. The zircon of Norway appears to be nearly the same mineral. The composition, which varies somewhat in difl"erent places, is about 70 per cent, of the earth called zircon ; 25 silica; and 0-5 oxide of iron. The form of its crystals is an octo- hedron. Except fine, this stone is not highly esteemed, being often full of flaws. The jargon of Ceylon seems to be a transparent colourless variety, but it is not of much value. Sect. VIIL chrysoprase. 6399. This stone is rather rare, and is of a cloudy pale green colour, having an agree- able appearance ; it is translucent, and is nearly allied to the chalcedonies and carnelians; like them, it is never cut into facets, but is used for large bracelets, brooches, seals, &c. Sect. IX. CHRYSOLITE, OR PERIDOT. 6400. This is a stone found in volcanic rocks, and though of an agreeable colour, brownish, yellowish, or of various shades of green, yet having little brilliancy, it is little used in jewellery ; it is sometimes made into necklaces, but is scarcely harder than glass, being scratched by the file. It consists of 43 parts magnesia; 39 silica; and 19 oxide of iron.