HEALTH IN THE NURSERY. 1189 4 G 3 :i,'HAP. I, nortnio-ht; in many nurseries it is changed once a week. Carpeting in nurseries, if jailed" to the floor, should be swept daily, tea leaves being previously sprinkled over hliem. . J , • 7036. Nurseries in. their fitting-up and furniture can scarcely be too simple and plam. IL boarded floor, provided it be not old and full of splinters, is in some respects better than a carpeted floor in rooms in which children play and run about 7037. Matting is soon worn out by the incessant treading'of children. 7038. Carpets if used in nurseries should be kept free from dirt, by being often taken . ilip and shaken out of doors, or daily swept 7039. T)ie walls ojnurseries are more generally papered than painted. Many persons, iiiowever, are in favour of finishing the walls of nurseries by painting them in distemper, hhat in case of the infectious diseases incidental to childhood breaking out among children, hhe walls of their nui-series may be more easily purified from infection than if papered, tn the case of scarlet fever, infection seems to linger for months, and even years, in the •, laouse in which it has been, and no means are more effectual in getting rid of this evil • khan that of white-washing the ceilings, and if the walls are distempered, of having them iklso done afresh. It takes but little time to do them, and but a slight expense, otherwise 11 papered room is, to the eye, preferable to any other mode of covering the walls of ibliildren's apartments, and in the present day the expense of papering rooms is as moderate L-is any other mode of finishing them. Health, however, is to be considered in every ithing, as the first object in rooms allotted to children. 7040. Furniture of wood, in nurseries, should be made as free from angles as possible ; laables should have the corners rounded off, that an infant's efi'orts to run alone may be as liittle as possible discouraged ; and that children may run securely about their nurseries is umost desirable, for indolent nurses would often compel them into sedentary habits and paursuits, when nature would incite them to active amusements, if there were any necessity t.;o watch them constantly. Above all precautions should be those regarding open windows aind fire-places. Nursei-ies should never be without bars to the one and guards to the other. The agility and caprice in the amusements of children (together with their iiinexperience of peril, which makes them fearless) often place them in imminent danger, sallowing scarcely time for the most vigilant eyes to perceive, or for any one to avoid it : hhence no preventive means should be neglected to preserve them from the effects of their oown rashness. 70-41. A Mxll-ordered nursery should be furnished with everything requisite for children's nuse, distinct from those of the family. The nursery servants having these things in charge tito keep clean and in order, much disputing and confusion amongst the servants generally aare thereby prevented; breakfast and tea things, spoons, tea-kettles, trays, candlesticks, &c.; titin or earthenware baths ; night lamps, over which are suspended small pannikins, in which at night the food of weaning or dry-nursed children, may be quickly warmed, tlhough some condemn this practice altogether. Washing tables, made of a height suitable tito young children, low chairs and stools, are among the chief things really required in nnurseries: additional conveniences and comforts might easily be named, but can scarcely hbe mentioned as requisites. See woodcuts of many of the articles of " Furniture for tthe Nursery," in Book V. Chap. XIV. 7042. Closets, cupboards, and shelves, should be found in every nursery, that there may bbe places into which every article not in use may be put away. It is remarkable how sstrong a love of neatness and order may be inculcated in childhood, by neat orderly habits idn the nurseries in which it is reared ; to say nothing of the comfort those habits impart lito both children and nurses. When the nursery is littered with the things provided for iits convenience, children can hardly play or move about without doing some micshief; «aud being often reproved for the injury thus done, they certainly suffer from carelessness aand untidiness not their own. 7043. Night nurseries require little furniture beyond bedding, and utensils for washing sand bathing. Carpets many persons decidedly object to have in the sleeping nurseries, uUsing such as may be easily taken up and shaken daily. In illness they should, in all ggeneral cases, be removed, hence it may be best seldom to have any but such as can be eeasily taken up. 7044. Cribs or small bedsteads from three to four or four feet and a half long, and two ffeet and a half wide, and having rails at the sides, head and feet, put into frames which aare fitted into grooves, so that they may be drawn out at pleasure, are at present more in imse for children's beds, and for various reasons are preferable to the swinging cots. These llast were introduced as substitutes for the rocking-cradle of wicker-work, formerly seen in (■every nursery ; but wiiich, with the swinging-cot also, are now very little used. The 'objection to both arises from the power they give to nurses to over-rock infants accord- ing as their own convenience suggests to them, and renders them inattentive to those ssyniptoms wliich infants evince when they have slept enough ; the nurse will often bo I tempted to apply to the rocker, to re-induce sleep iu the infant under her charge before