ON FOOD. Book VII. 472 is eaten. It is much esteemed in Germany and other parts of the Continent, where they boil and eat it when cold, sliced with oil and vinegar as a salad, or employ it in various dishes. It is occasionally imported from Hamburgh, but is little cultivated in England, though very hardy. ' . 2535. Corn sokid, ov lamb Iclhice (^Fedix oUtoria,Wi\\A.). This is a diminutive annual, common in corn fields and sandy soils. It is occasionally cultivated in gardens, rising to the height of a foot, and is used as a salad. It has long been a favourite plant in France. Sect. IX. SMALL SALAD HERBS. 2.536. There are certain herbs which are used chiefly in the seed leaf, or, when ex- tremely young, for the purpose of procuring salads throughout the year, or at times and in situations where no other can be had. Some of these are also mixed with the larger salad plants to improve their flavours, or wholesome qualities. The sorts mostly in use in this country are mustard, cresses, rape, turnip, radish, white cabbage, cabbage lettuce, &c. Some of these may be had at all times of the year, and are cut when not more than a week or ten days old. Being mostly of a warm relish, if suffered to grow too large, so as to run into the rough leaf, they become of a disagreeably strong hot taste. SuBSECT. 1. — Mustard (^Sinapis, Linn.). 2537. There arc two varieties of nnislard, the black and tlie white, both natives of this country, and occasionally growing wild in the corn fields. The black is rather a larger plant than the white, and the leaves darker. The seeds of both, but chiefly the former, are ground to produce the well-known condiment, flour of mustard. It is principally cultivated in Dui-ham. 2538. Mustard contains a mild fixed oil of a greenish yellow colour, procured by pres- sure. The mustard cake, after the expression of the bland oil, when distilled with water, yields an acrid volatile oil, the principles of which reside in the seeds, but cannot be de- veloped without the aid of water. The pungency of the mustard when used as food is developed from the action of the emulsion on a peculiar principle in the same manner as the hydrocyanic acid is developed by the action of water on the bitter almond. 2539. Mustard is one of the best stimulants employed to give energy to the digestive organs. It was in high favour with our forefathers. In the " Northumberland House- hold Book for 1512," p 18., is an order for an annual supply of 160 gallons of mustard. 2540. Mustard in its present form was not known at our tables previously to 1729. At that time the seed was only coarsely pounded in a mortar, as coarsely separated from the integuments or skins, and in that rough state made up for use; sometimes it was brought to table whole, or boiled in vinegar. It then occurred to an old woman of the name of Clements, resident at Durham, to grind the seed in a mill, and to pass the meal through the several processes which are resorted to in making flour from wheat. The secret she kept for many years to herself, and, in the period of her exclusive possession of it, supplied the principal parts of the kingdom, and, in particular, the metropolis, with this article. George I. stamped it with fashion by his approval. Mrs. Clements twice a year travelled to Loudon, and to the prinpipal towns throughout England, for orders, as regularly as any tradesman's rider of the present day ; and the old lady contrived to pick up, not only a decent pittance, but what was then thought a tolerable competence. From this woman's residing at Durham, it acquired the name of Durham mustard. 2541. Mustard is remarkable for the rapidity of its growth, and on this accoimt is fre- quently sown in the ground, as a small salad, together with cress. The seeds strewed on wet flannel, and placed in a warm situation, even by the fireside, frequently shoot out their seed leaves in a day or two—sometimes even in a few hours—a circumstance which is frequently taken advantage of in long voyages. Ships going to the East Indies have boxes with earth placed on the deck, wherein they sow mustard and cress for the purpose of getting salad on the voyage; and the number of crops thus raised is surprising. SuBSECT. 2. — Garden Cress (Lepidium sativum. Linn.). 2542. This elegant small plant is not found wild in England, and is supposed to have been brought from Persia or Cyprus about 1548. It is considered as the principal of the small salad herbs, and is much cultivated for this purpose, having a very warm but agree- able aromatic flavour. By the assistance of a little artificial heat, it may be had fresh throughout the winter. 2543. American cress (Barharea pracox). — This ^'ariety grows wild in Britain in moist or watery ground. It is aromatic and pungent, but rather bitter. It is sometimes culti- vated for winter and early spring salad. It is also called French cress. 2544. Winter-cress {Barbarca vulgaris). — This also is found wild in Britain in watery places and slow running streams. In flavour and use it much resembles the last.