IHAP. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. 19.5 O 2 ccity of the bed. The feathers are then put into a building made for tlie purpose, wilh uues consti-ucted in the same manner as in a hot-house, -n-here a considerable heat is kept pp. In this the feathers are turned over frequently, and a small ventilator at the top offers the foul vapours to escape. After they have been sufficiently stoved, they are Liaced in a large cylinder made of loose canvas, which is turned with great velocity by U'-cans of the multiplying cog wheels of a horse or handmill; by these means all the sand and irrt is got rid of. They are then put into linen bags, and beaten, to clear them from the eery fine powder or dust that adheres to them. The whole process of cleaning is attended ridth a loss of one pound in seven of the weight. Much of the comfort and excellence of tods depends not only upon the quality of the feathers, but upon the operation of leeaning them having been properly performed. In feather beds got up cheap by inferior ibholsterers, the feathers are not well freed from the animal oil, and are imperfectly oDved and beaten; in consequence of which they soon harbour insects, and fill the bed laambers with dust and flue, besides emitting an odour that is disagreeable and unwhole- inme. But it will sometimes happen, even when the feathers have been prepared with re-eat care, that when quite new, they may have a faint smell when first slept on. To ;pprive them of it, take off all the blankets every morning, and expose the beds to the air rr three or four hours, and in a short time all smell will disappear : for want of this pre- laution it might remain for several weeks. ;886. The following process of cleaning feathers from their oil-viWi he z. remedy for the wove evil, and will likewise supply a method of preparing them for putting into beds. It oas communicated to the Society of Arts by Mrs. Jane Richardson. " Take for every iliUon of clean water, one pound of quick Ume ; mix them well together, and when the jadissolved lime is precipitated in fine powder, pour off the clear limewater for use. aat the feathers to be cleaned into another tub, and add to them a quantity of clean lime- jater, sufficient to cover them about three inches, after they have been well immersed kid stirred about therein. The feathers, when thoroughly moistened, will sink down, and i'.ould remain in the limewater three or four days, after which the foul liquor should be iparated from them by laying them on a sieve. The feathers should be afterwards well lashed in clean water, and dried upon nets, the meshes of which may be about the fineness ' ■ cabbage nets. The feathers must be from time to time shaken upon the nets, and as leey dry will fall through the meshes, and are to be collected for use. The admission of rr will be serviceable in the drying. After being prepared as above, they will only •iquire beating, to get rid of the dust. We ought to observe, however, that, notwith- aanding the publication of this process, some consider the use of limewater is bad, as A-e feathers can never afterwards be freed from white dust. •887. The chemical composition of feathers agrees nearly with that of hairs, consisting of ,-spissated albumen, mixed with a very minute portion of gelatine, and a little animal oil; :it they contain much less mucilage, and receive less moisture from the body. Although lathers are so dry, even when attached to the living bird, they lose much of their 1 iancy and freshness after being some time plucked. •888. Feathers intended for dress are prepared by the plumasier. The feathers he nploys are those of ostrich, heron, peacock, swan, goose, and cock. We shall content larselves with describing the mode of preparing those of the ostrich, which are the prin- ppal. The feathers of the male bird are the whitest and most beautiful. Those upon ee back and above the wings are preferred ; next those of the wings; and, lastly, those of ee tail. The down is merely the feathers qf the other parts of the body, which vary in nngth from four to fourteen inches ; it is black in the males, and grey in the nmales. The finest white feathers of the female have always their ends a little greenish, hhich lessens their lustre, and lowers their price. These feathers are imported from lllgiers, Tunis, Alexandria, Madagascar, and Senegal. 'They are first scoured in soap and lukewarm water for five or six minutes : and after- aards rinsed in hot water. To bleach them, they are immersed in hot water mixed idth Spanish white, and well agitated in it : they are then washed successively in three aaters. They are next passed rapidly through a bath of cold water, containing a very tt;tle indigo : and next sulphured in the same manner as straw hats. The ribs are scraped idth a bit of glass cut circularly, in order to render them very pliant. By drawing the l^ge of a blunt knife over the filaments they assume the curly form so much admired. i 889. Cleaning and dying feathers, is likewise the business of the plumasier. The original rare white of feathers can never be completely restored, when once soiled : but it may •Dmetimes be desirable to give them an artificial colour. The spirituous tincture of ir.rmeric will give them a fine yellow of any depth that may be necessary, and a little nraon juice will brighten the colour. Blue of any shade may be given by liquid blue, or t f sulphate of indigo. Green may be produced by a mixture of the two last dyes for blue Kid yellow. ]?uff colour may be produced by adding to a little peai^l-ash a decoction of lanotto in water. Red is produced by wetting the feathers with lemon juice, and then with we carmine sold in saucers. Purple is obtained by a mixture of the red and blue dyes.