BATHING. 1219 Chap. III. rather on a relaxed than an irritated state of the bronchial membrane. In no dis- ease is the cold bath more beneficial than in the intervals of asthma, -when the system is in other respects proper for the remedy ; its principal action in this case is, no doubt, as a preventive of catarrh or cold, -which is by far the most frequent exciting cause of the disease. Neither is this remedy suited to those who have a tendency to consumption, nor to such as are constitutionally liable to bowel complaints. Before attempting cold bathing, careful investigation of the state of the mucous mt?mbranes of the chest and intestinal canal should be made, as it will certainly prove hurtful where chronic inflammation of these organs exists. 7190. The size of the bath is of some consequence. It is observed that bathing in the open air is of a more tonic or bracing character than bathing in a confined apartment. In the domestic bath the patient can seldom have the advantage of a complete and sudden immersion, and exercise while in the bath is almost totally precluded. It would be de- sirable that a room for bathing should be constructed in every house ; and though this is scarcely possible in the present condition of society, yet a bath should be considered as indispensable in every mansion of considerable size. It may be lined with marble slabs set in Roman cement, which is the most elegant and cleanest: it may also be constructed of brick coated with cement, or with tin-plate painted. The bath should have a supply of cold and hot water by pipes and cocks, together with a pipe for emptying the bath, steps for descending, &c. Baths of this kind have been frequently constructed of great elegance ; but what is most wanted is a convenient bath of small expense, so as to be within the acquisition of persons in moderate circumstances, and such baths are most con- veniently placed in the bed or dressing-room. In some of the London club-houses and hotels, by means of the back boiler of the kitchen range, hot water is made to ascend to the baths in an upper story without any mechanical means being employed ; but this re- quires that the water in the boiler should always be kept boiling. In many houses in the west end of London, the water rises to the bed-chamber floors by the high-service pipes of the wafer companies. Water may likewise be raised to the upper part of a house by a well-constructed force-pump; and it would not be difficult to heat it in the bed-room floor. Yet although it would not require any great exercise of ingenuity to contrive baths in the bed-chamber stories, scarcely any houses of an ordinary class are furnished with so valuable an addition, the chief difficulty being the regular supply of water. It would be ■ exceeding our limits were we to saj anything on the subject of puhlicbaths, farther than 1 to point out their great utility, and to express a hope that the increased attention to the 1 means of preserving health, which must be the result of the diffusion of knowledge, will, i in no very distant period, produce all that can be desired. 7191. Portable batlis of various kinds are made and sold in ironmongers' shops. Fig. 911. represents a full-sized bath of tin plate V'^^^^^^KIBK^MI^SIISBS^^^ painted. Other portable baths which may be used for cold water are represented in fig. 912., shower bath ; fig. 916., hip bath ; fig. 917., leg bath ; and J^^t. 918., foot bath. See Fig.^jw. '^"iJii"- — child's bath under " Nursery Furniture." SuBSECT. 3. — Temperate Bath. 7192. This is analogous in its eff'ects to the cold bath, but in a less degree. The ' Buxton water, which is of the temperature of 82°, is the best natural example of this class < of baths. It may be prescribed in cases where the shock of the cold bath would be too • violent for the patient ; and it may sometimes serve as a proper preparation for the cold 1 bath. SuBSECT. 4. — Tepid Bath. 7193. The tepid bath is more important for the purpose of cleanliness and the general I preservation of health than as a remedy in disease, although in the latter case it is often ■ very valuable. The range of temperature extends from 85° to 92°; and it is sometimes em- I ployed previous to the cold bath, the bather lowering the degree of heat gradually each I time until he arrives at that of the cold bath. The shock of this bath at the lowest tem- I perature is slight when compared with that of the cold bath, but on that account is better • suited to certain invalids, while its liighest temperature partakes of the nature of the warm 1 bath. For the mere purposes of ablution, the occasional use of the tepid bath of about ' 8.5° to 90° is the best, choosing the particular degree that is most agreeable. The best I time is noon. Brisk exercise in the open air should be taken afterwards. It is very re- I freshing after fatigue and travelling, and is equally serviceable occasionally to persons of ! sedentary habits. It is not proper immediately after a meal, or when the person is much 4 I 2 4