337 Ehap. I. DUTIES OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. ^or she will be liampered and hurried, nnrt perhaps perform no part of lier duty well. Mflhud must be her law; ami it consists in a judicious division of her weekly, as well as of her daily, work, and to her regular ladherence to this division, performing in its appointed time each portion of her duly. It may be useful to ;give a detailed account both of the day's and week's routine of her business, to show how even this variety -of household work may be easily and well performed. l.i6S. Firstly. 'J'/ie routine of the dai/'s work.—Earli/ in the 7>iorning, the kitchen grate or stove, oven, and sboiler, must be cleaned, the fire lighted, and the water set on for breaklast. The hall must be swept out, stone ititeps washed, dining-room grate and fire-irons cleaned and polished, carpets swept, chairs and tables rubbed, iund windows dusted, curtains shaken and properly arranged, and the fire, if in the winter, cither kindled or ..aid ready to be liglited. /Ij'ter breakfast, in places where it is required, the cook assists the housemaid with i.-.he beds, one pair of hands being insufficient to shake large beds and turn mattresses properly. After this is Hone she returns to her province in the kitchen, answering door bells and single knocks until twelve in the iiay, in order that footmen and housemaid may pursue undisturbedly their respective business. At noon, hnw- fttver, the cook's business will require her constant attention, especially if she have two dinners to prepare. The pjjarly dinner she has probably forwarded before twelve, and been at the same time able to put her kitchen in i nrder. and to clean and clear away any utensils that may have been used since the morning. During the hours . if cooking she should he solicitous to keep her kitchen in order, removing out of it as quickly as possible all [ dates, dishes, and other articles that have been used, into the scullery, to be washed in proper season. >\otliing betrays want of method more tlian the neglected state of any servant's office ; it brings confusion i nto the whole business of the kitchen. As in families where there are small establishments of servants, r he table is generally plainly served, the cook may find many intervals of time for washing up her earthen- ii. vare vessels, and putting away all articles which are not likely to be wanted ; and by constantly doing this, 'he will be less hurried at other periods of her business. After serving her dinner, her kettles, saucepans, Limd stew pans, must be properly washed and cleaned, and ranged near the fire to dry. By the time these are iitone the plates and dishes will be returned to her from the dining-room, and must he immediately washed, L-.nd either ranged in the rack or put to dry before the fire. Then she makes up her kitchen fire, cleans and •weeps kitchen, larder, and scullery. In families where the diimer is late, supper is rarely wanted, so that nhe cook's employments are ended when all the operations above-mentioned are performed. She may then klean herself and'sit down to her own work, or to repair and make kitchen towels and cloths, until the hour or rest. Lira. Secondly. The routine of the iceek's work Monday, in country families, is a baking day. The bread ! i often set over night, buc is not kneaded and formed into loaves till the next morning, alter the cook i Sturns from assisting the housemaid with the beds. The cook has often more to do on this morning in fashing up every thing, whidi her attendance at a place of worship the previous day hail rendered it expe- dient for lier to leave untouched. This, with her daily business, usually occupies all her spare time. '^'uesday; her kitchen, larder, scullery, &C., to be scoured; tables and dressers washed. Wednesday; ii.ie dining-rooms and library more thoroughly cleaned than on ordinary mornings. These must be done as oon after the family breakfast as possible. Thursday ; passages and oilcloth washed, together with the liairs and banisters apportioned to the cook. Fritiay ; all/m saucepans, metal dish coveis, copper sauce- lans, &c., to be scoured and polished; baking. Saturday; the kitchen, larder, &c., scoured; the oilcloth d I hall swept clean anil polished. In a place where the cook engages to wash her own clothes and kitchen 'vjwels, she must, at the stated periods, arise an hour or two earlier in the morning, and, by getting on with nrae portion of her wnrli, she will make time for this extra business. The ironing and getting up of her [inen may generally be done in the evening. SuBSECT. 5.—Duties of Upper and Under Housemaids. 1570. The upper housemaid's duties vary according as she has one or more assistant Housemaids, upon whom the most laborious parts of the household cleaning devolve, in ■istinct proportions to each; and yet the upper housemaid is in some measure responsible inr the ■whole of the household work being -well done, and in proper season. Hence it is jquisite that she should herself be -well versed in every detail of the work, and be able sso to estimate the rate of time at which it ought to proceed, so as it may be always fTected regularly, easily, and properly. 11571. Daily work of the upper housemaid Her daily occupations commence, together with those of her *isist.ants, in the rooms of which the use will be first required. The windows of these are to be opened in I 'e first instance, weather permitting it; the ciu'tains are then to be shaken, and hung up high enough above re carpet to remove tbera from the dust which, in sweeping, will rise from it. The sofas, couches, and choice rrniture must be covered, if this have not been done over night, with loose sheets of coarse calico or brown iiUand. and the rest of the room is to be prepared for the sweeping of the carpet, by the removal of chairs, sofa- ■■2S, small t,ihles,&c. away from the sides and towards the centre of the room : damp tea-leaves bein,fj sprinkled er the carpet, will assist in catching the dust as it rises in sweeping, and thus prevent it from settling on the -rniture or walls of the room. The sweeping then should be begun from the upper cud of the room, and ' occeded with towards the fire-place, or the lower end of the room, according as the pile of the carpet appears be. The sweeping must not go against, but with the pile. When the sweeping is done, the upper lioiise- ^ lid proceeds to remove the chimney ornaments, as well as others from chifl'onidres and tables, in order to 1- St the places on which they usually stand. Marble chimney-pieces or slabs should be washed occasionally 1 the upper housemaid with a flannel and clean so.ip and water. (See art. "Cleaning Marble.") The ■rious ornament.il articles that h.ave been removed will require careful wiping or cleaning, and are then to • replaced. The ledges, panels of doors, window-frames, the inside of the lower panes ol the windows, the ■ rrors, chairs, sofatees, &c. and tables, are then to be dusted and put into their resjiective places : the frames i pictures must be dusted, but only with a feather broom, not with a linen duster. (Sec remarks in art. Cleaning Gilt Mouldings, &c.") At last, the curtains are to be neatly laid in folds and hung on their ickets; but, even when everything appears to be done, the housemaid should pause before she leaves ! room, to take a general survey of the whole, in order to detect omissions which may have occurred in y details of the business. When she has done her part in each room, .and seen also that others have done rirs. her next business is with the dressing-rooms, into which warm water may be t.aken, and all things of I • toilet laid ready lor the lady she is serving, or other members of the family. When these matters are all 1 ' tied, the hour of breakfast will probably be arrived, which, in regard to the establishment, generally I -cedes by one hour that of the family. ' t may be as well here to notice the circumstance, that in families in which men-servants are kept, the care ;ithe dining-room mahogany furniture, together with the cleaning ofmirrors and windows, arcalways under < ■! charge of the men-servants. (See art. " Cleaning Furniture.'*) Rosewood tables :uk1 chairs, or other ,( 'ench polished furniture now usu.al in drawing-rooms, requiring no cleaning, and nothing more th.an gentle tibing with silken or soft linen dusters, are usually under the care and management of housemaids. 11572. An under hnu.semaid, while an upper has been employed as above described, '! :ght to be performing her distinct part of the business ; that of cleaning the grates, M iiiders, and fire-irons.