ON FERMENTATION, 549 Chap. II. matter remains upon the filter which possesses most of the properties of ghitcn ; and tliat, ■when this substance is separated, the yeast loses its properties of exciting fermentation, but recovers it again when the gluten is added. The same thing happens when yeast is kept for some time ; a white substance, not unlilce curd, separates and swims upon the surface ; if this be removed, the remainder of the yeast cannot excite fermentation. This substance possesses many of the properties of gluten, though it differs in others ; and it is generally considered to be that part of the yeast -which is the active or real ferment. This apparently pure yeiist has been analysed, and it is found to consist of carbon, water, oil, ammonia, and carbonic acid. 3094. An experiment of Kirchoff throws considerable light on the nature of yeast. If pure starch be infused in hot water it is not converted into sugar; neither does gluten become saccharine matter when treated in the same way. But if a mixture of pure pulverised wheat gluten and potato starch be infused in hot water, the starch is converted into sugar. During the process an acid is evolved. The gluten is little altered in appearance, and, if the liquid be filtered, most of it remains upon the filter. But it cannot be successfully employed a second time to convert starch into sugar. It appears, therefore, that it is some substance connected with gluten that acts on the starch and occasions this conversion. 3095. Yeast, then, ivould appear, as ive have said, to consist principally of a substance very similar in composition and in many of its sensible properties to gluten, and. when new or fresh, it is inflated and rendered frothy by a large quantity of carbonic acid. "When mixed with wort this substance acts upon the saccharine matter; the temperature rises, carbonic acid is disengaged, and the result is ale, which always contains a considerable proportion of alcohol or spirit. The quantity of yeast employed in brewing ale being small, the saccharine matter is but imperfectly decomposed; hence a considerable portion of it remains in the liquor, and gives it that viscid quality and body for which it is remarkable. 3096. Yeast may be preserved by drying. In large distilleries, where the required quan- tities of yeast are not easily obtained, it has been the custom to procure this substance from a distance; and in order to diminish the expense of carriage, the recent yeast has been put into bags to drain, and afterwards has been compressed into solid cakes : or yeast may be preserved by dipping twigs in it and drying them in the air. This dried yeast is found on trial to excite fermentation in wort, but not so regularly as recent yeast; and a much larger quantity of the former than of the latter is required. Though dried yeast has been transported to certain distances, particularly in Germany, it has been found impracticable to convey it always in an effective state to India. In a warm moist atmosphere yeast gradually putrefies, a sufiicient proof that nitrogen forms one of its elements. 3097. The fermenting property of yeast is toeakened by boiling for ten minutes, and is entirely destroyed by continuing the boiling. Alcohol poured upon it likewise renders it inert, on which account its power lessens as the alcohol is formed during fermentation. A thousandth part of sulphuric or acetic acid destroys its peculiar properties: a very small portion of sulphurous acid, or a sulphite, produces the same effect; so likewise do mustard, horse-radish, and garlic. These substances are accordingly sometimes employed to check a too rapid fermentation. 3098. When the juice of grapes is suffered to ferment by means of the natural ferment which it possesses, tvithout the addition- of yeast, the saccharine matter of the fruit is decom- posed during the process ; a portion of this ferment is separated, and rises to the top in the form of yeast, while another portion falls to the bottom of the vessel, and is called lees. Both of these is chiefly decomposed ferment, which has already acted upon the sugar ; but they still contain a quantity of the active and undecomposed fermenting prin- ciple or leaven, and consequently can be employed as such in exciting fermentation. 3099. What the natural ferment of grape juice consists of is not exactly known ; but from an observation by Guy Lussac it appears to require the addition of oxygen before it becomes active ; for he observes that if inust or grape juice be heated to 212° in bottles, and corked immediately and carefully, it may be preserved without change, and be con- veyed to any distance ; but if it be exposed to the air only for a few seconds, it absorbs oxygen, and fermentation takes place. 3100. Fermentation, once induced, will go on of itself, if the temperature is sufiicient, until one of the principles necessary, either the saccharine principle or the ferment, is exhausted; it will then stop ; but it is a curious fact that the very process of fermentation itself occa- sions the production of a fresh ciuantity of ferment. If this generated ferment be separated, the process will not proceed so long as if it be continually mixed up with the fermenting fluid : hence the practice of breaking the head of yeast, and stirring it up with the mass, when it is required to prolong or renew the languid fermentation. 3101. The fermented juice of the grape, and that of wort, or the decoction of malt, are essentially different, although each contains s iccharine matter, and a natural ferment. The fomer will produce wine, the latter beer : but for the production of the liquor properly N n 3