BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL C94 kingdom, wc do not consider it necessary to detail tlie mode or operation In mal<lng it, as it demands more attention and care and more expensive macliinery tlian is likely to be resorted to in private families. .'!'J(i5. Single soda-ioater is an acidulous water simply impregnated with carbonic acid. jiUiiG. Double suda-water, which is that now manulautured and sold in tiglitly-corked bottles. Is water liaving a little carbonate of soda dissolved in it, in the |)roportion of two ounces to tlie gallon, and containing car- bonic acid gas that lias been forced into it by a particular apparatus, with agitation to cause greater absorption. 1 hese bottles are corked in a peculiar manner; and, when the pressure of tlie cork is removed, the gas, by Its elasticity, forces out in the manner well known. 39li7. JiJfi'i vvscmg draughts are agreeable imitations of the natural acidulous waters. The best is made by adding a solution of carbonate of soda to some fresli lemon-juice. The aclil of the lemon attracts the soda from the carbonic acid, the escape of which in a gaseous state occasions the bubbling appearance called ejfdfvescaicc: When lemons are in season this is easily made, and forms a very refreshing and coaling beve- rage much employed in cases of fever, and very cooling in sultry weather. Lenwn juice, containing a great deal of mucilage, cannot be kept long by itself i but as it cannot always be liad fresh, means have been found to preserve it in a solid and crystallised state, and a portion of this dis- solved, added to the carbonate of soda, is as effectual as the lemon-juice itself. The acid of the lemon being the same as that in the citron and lime, it is often named citric acid, from the first of these fruits in winch it exists very abundantly, and I'rom which it is prepared in a concrete state. Tlie concrete acid being extremely portable is very useful to travellers, particularly in loug sea voyages ; and lime juice is much used in the navy as a preservative from scurvy. The best modes of making this agreeable and useful bever.ige is the following: Into a half-pint tumbler of water stir thirty grains of carbonate of soda powdered, and into another similar glass squeeze the juice of half a good lemon, or twenty-live grains of crystallised acid of lemon (citric acid) powdered. When the powders .are quite dissolved, pour the contents of one glass into the other ; a brisk effervescence will take place ; drink immediately. It must be observed that the first tumbler must be large enough to hold also the contents of the second. If it be required stronger, increase the quantity of each material. The propor- tions of each should be so managed that neither an alkaline nur an acid should predominate, except, for some reason, an alkaline or an acid draught is required. This beverage may be agreeably flavoured by dissolving a little raspberry or red currant jelly in the water before the salts are put in ; and if these be preferred, a little tincture of ginger, or syrup of ginger, a bit of sugar rubbed on a lemon, or a little white wine. Ten drops of Tinct. Fcrri murinti added will form a chalybeate. It is to be observed that the crystallised citric acid contiiins none of the agreeable aroma of the fruit, as that resides solely in the skin. 3!)C8. A clieaper mode of malting effervescing draughts now become very general is by using the tartaric acid with the carbonate of soda -instead of the citric ; and papers of each, containing the projier quantity for taking at one time, are commonly made up in packets of dillerent colours, and sold at all the chemists' and druggists, shops under the name of soda powders. 3969. TIte tartaric arid crisis in the juice of seiicral acidulous fruits, particularly in the grape. It is chiefly procured from the crude tartar which is deposited in the making of wine (See Wine, Book VIII. Chap. IV'.). This tartar is the tartaric acid in combination with potash, that existed in the grapes from which the wine was made. To procure the acid pure the tartar is dissolved in boiling water, and chalk or lime is added ; this decomposes the tartar, and tartrate of lime is obtained, wliich is afterwards decomposed by sulphuric acid, which takes away the lime, leaving the tartaric acid free. 3970. Ginger-beer for keeping. — Take five gallons of good water, six pounds of loaf sugar, three ounces of Sliced or powdered ginger, boil them together for half an hour. Peel six lemons, add the peel, and boil for another quarter of an hour. A few minutes before taking it oIT the fire put in the lemon-juice ; and when the whole has cooled down to the temperature of new milk, pour it into a cask, and add to it half a pint of good yeast; stir it well together, and let it work for two or three days, according to the weather. Then strain it off from the lees into another cask, and add to it a pint of brandy. Hang in the cask a little isinglass in a muslin bag, and stop the cask down for three weeks : then bottle in stone bottles, cork, .and wire it. It will be fit lor use in forty-eight hours. 'This Is, in fact, a weak sugar beer, flavoured strongly with ginger and lemon-peel. 3971. Common ginger-beer. —Take one ounce of powdered ginger, half an ounce of cream of tartar, one pound of white sugar ; mix these in a gallon of water, and simmer it over the fire for an hour; when cooled to milk-warm add a table-spoonful of yi'ast, and ferment it for twelve hours. Then put it into stone bottles, cork, and tie it well down. It will be'fit for use in forty-eight hours. An imitation of ginger-beer is viade by means of what are called finger-beer powders, which are likewise sold. Take eight grains of finely-powdered ginger, twenty-six grains of carbonate of soda, and one drachm of white sugar ; powder these in a mortar, mix them intimately, and dissolve them in a tumbler half filled with water. Then add the tartaric acid, as above described in the soda powders. 3972. An agreeable beverage may be made which will be useful in hot weather as a light summer drink by mixing a bottle of ale or porter with ten quarts of water, adding a pound of coarse brown sugar and two ounces of ginger. This is not exactly ginger beer; but if well mixed, then bottled and corked, it will be found to be brisk, and fit for drlnldng in a few days. Sect. III. BEVERAGES COMPOSED PAUTLY OF FERMENTED LIQUORS. 3973. Hot spiced wines were much in use till the beginning of the sixteenth century; and some of these favour- ite compounds were known by the names oiypocras, sack, and clary. The first of these, which took its name from the bag through which it was strained, called by apothecaries " Hippocrates' sleeve," was made cither of white or red wine with aromatics, such as ginger, cinnamon, aromatic seeds, and sugar. Clary was made from claret, with honey and aromatics ; and sack from the wine of that name a kind of sherry. These were drunk as a " night cap," .md at the conclusion of a banquet. Lc Grand, in his " Vie privce des Franpois," observes that the poets of the thirteenth century speak with rapture of these delicious beverages; and it is said that they were highly esteemed in convents and universities. A scale of perfection w.is even observed : when tlie compound was (made of Bordeaux wine it was simply called llisliop; but received the name of Cardinal when old Rhine wine was used ; and rose to the dignity of Pope when im|»cri.il Tokay was employed. The vestiges of these ancient mixtures may still be seen in our Mulled Wine .■uid Bishop. 3974. To mult wine Boil the spices (cinnamon, nutmeg grated, cloves, and niiice) in any quantity approved, in a quarter of a pint or better of water; put to this a full pint of port w ith suc.ar to taste. Mix it well, and serve hot with thin slips of to.ist or nisks. I.emon or or.mge juice may be added, and the water may ho strained off from the spices. Ale or porter may be tnnlled as above, and have toasts or biscuits iiut to them. (Meg Dods.) Formerly the yolks of eggs were mixed with mulled wine, as in making custard or ogg.eaudle, and many flavouring ingredients were employed which are now disused. 397.5. Bishop. — The diiy before it is wanted, grill on a wiro-grill, over a clear slow fire, of a pale brown, three smooth-skinned, large, bitter oranges. Place Ihem in a small punch-bowl th.it will about hold them, and jioiir over them a full half-pint from a bottle of old Bordeaux wine, in which a pound and a quarter of loaf sugar is dissolved. Cover with a plate. When it is to be served next day (though it m.iy lie over two or three days) cut and siiuecri! the oranges Into a small sieve placed above a jug, containing the remainder of the bottle of wine, previously miule very hot; add more syrup if it is wantiKl. Serve hot in large glasses, or in Slimmer it may ho iced. Bishop is often made of Madeira in Kngl.ind, and is )ierfuincd with nutinep, bruised cloves, and mace. It ought, however, to be made of old generous Bordeaux wine, or it fails of ita