ON MAKING BREAD. 731 Chap. I. Manna. 4174. Manna has been supposed to he a species of sugar; but its sweetness is owing to a distinct principle called Mannite, holding an intermediate place between cane-sugar and honey. This, when prepared pure, is agreeably sweet, and free from the nauseous taste of manna ; it is readily soluble in water, and instantly melts in the mouth. Manna is used only as a medicine; it is a vegetable substance that exudes spontaneously and is obtained by incisions from the stem of a species of ash (^Fraxinus orrus), a native of the south of Europe, particidarly of Sicily, Calabria, and Greece. The juice concretes into solid masses, or is dried in the sun or in stoves. The best manna comes to us closely packed in chests, and is called flake manna. Mr. Madden, in his " Travels into Syria and Arabia," mentions a species of manna, called at present by the Arabs mann; it is produced by a species of tamarisk that grows in Wady Amara, and near Gibel Tor (the ancient Mount Sinai). It exudes in the month of June, during the night, from the thorns of the tree on the leaves and twigs beneath, but if exposed to the heat of the day it melts. The Arabs boil it, and, after straining it, put it into leathern bags, to preserve it for use ; it has much the appearance of honey. BOOK IX. ON MAKING BEEAD. CHAP. 1. INTRODUCTION AND HISTORY OP BREAD. 4175. The quality of bread is universaUy allowed to be a matter deserving of serious con- sideration; for good bread is not merely an article of luxury, but is essential to our health. The changes which Jiave occurred in the habits of society have, in a great measure, taken the manufacture of bread, among other things of the first necessity, out of the hands of individuals, and placed it in those of public baiters, on whose skill and probity we now depend for an article which has been emphatically termed the " staff of life." This is, perhaps, to a certain extent, unavoidable in the present condition of things, particularly in large cities; but while many persons are thus freed from what would otherwise be a continual source of trouble, and to whom this arrangement is a convenience of no small importance, it begins to be overlooked and forgotten, that there are any advantages to counterbalance the inconveniences of private or domestic baking. Pre- viously to our determining on this question, it will be well to inquire carefully into the nature of this kind of food, and into all the circumstances connected with its pro- duction. We shall thus be enabled to form an accurate judgment how fai- domestic baking is worth attending to. 4176. We shall divide the subject into several chapters: in the first we propose giving a short history of the introduction and progress of making bread among civilised nations ; in the second we shall treat of the materials from which bread is prepared ; the third shall describe the practice of making bread of various kinds; in the fourth we shall point out several farinaceous substances used instead of bread in various parts of the world ; in the fifth we shall describe the construction of bakers' ovens, with some remarks upon baking. 4177. History of bread. — Of the various kinds of aliment to which civilised man has had recourse within the historical period, none has been so universally employed as bread. The cultivation of grain for the regular supply of a superior vegetable food always denotes an advanced state and settled condition of society, from which may be dated the accurate division of territorial property; for the districts which had been used for hunting and pasturage were not divided with any degree of exactness. Like most arts of primary importance, the invention of bread long preceded the period of its history, which is involved in the usual obscurity of early times. The Greeks were accustomed to deify the authors of discoveries, and they accordingly ascribed the intro- duction of agriculture to Ceres, and the invention of bread to Pan : but the Chaldeans and Egyptians were acquainted with these arts at a still more remote period. The sacred writings make mention of it in the days of Abraham : " And Abraham hastened into the tent to Sarah, and said. Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth." In the paintings recently discovered in the tombs