CARRIAGES. 1122 Book XXIII. angles, and the third suspended from them behind with shackles. The body may be with or without a jointed hood, and either of cane or close. The Dennet springs are very commonly used in light carts. 6G70. The Tilbunj, fig. 883., derives its appella- tion from a coach-builder of that name. It was for many years very fashionable, but it is neither sightly nor convenient, and though apparently light, it is in reality very heavy from the quantity of iron work: it is now little used. To support the body, it has an iron gibbet, a, fixed on the hinder part of the carriage, to which the body is suspended by leathern braces ; and it has grasshopper springs fixed to the body beneath the shafts ; likewise in front there are two single elbow springs attached to the body, serving to sus- pend it by a short leathern brace. It has a small hose below the seat for luggage, and a cloth board in front. 6671. The Stanhope, fig. 884., resembles the Tilbury in the body, but has more room below for luggage. The origin of this carriage has been comnnmicated to us by an eminent coacbmaker well acquainted with the circumstances ; INIr. Tilbury, who contrived the carriage that bears his name, was requested by Lord Stanhope to construct for him some novel kind of light carriage that should be called after him. Tilbury accordingly adapted to his own new carriage the springs that had just before been applied by Elliot to the mail, making some alterations. The springs of the Stanhope are accordingly the mail springs of that day. These consist of two springs fixed longitudinally on the side framework, and two transverse ones suspended from it by shackles ; on the latter the weight rests. By this means the body is placed two removes from the concussion, but the shafts, and of course the horse, are exposed to the whole of it. This combination of springs is not easy, without a great weight on them. Sometimes the upper part'of the Stanhope is formed of cane-work, which gives it a lighter appearance; and now more frequently the body of the Stanhope is hung on the springs of the Tilbury. CC72. A whiskey or chair is a small chair, not hung by braces, but placed on the shafts, having springs of some kind interposed between them and the axles. The most usual springs for this purpose are the double elbow. The body may be made with pannels, or worked with cane. It is made low, and very light. In other respects it resembles the gig, and is the cheapest kind of spring carriage. A hind of very low chair is sometimes made on two or four wheels, with or without springs, for a park ; useful for invalids. 6G73. Buggy is a name which has sometimes been given to a smaller one-horse chaise ; sometimes it is so small as to contain only one person.