595 BREWING. Chap. III. their sides, is of large extent, in proportion to the quantity; and accoi-ding to the surface, the increase of acid will be more or less rapid. 33G0. Beer to keep long in cask should be brewed of good strength with that view. The •weaker it is, the more likely it is to turn sour, the tendency to acetify depending upon the smallness of the quantity of alcohol or of hops, each of which has a preserving power ; and the production of acid is in general chiefly owing to the mucilage left in the liquor. 3361. As soon as the casks are brought into the cellar, the bungs should be drawn, and they should be filled up full with fine beer, skimming off from time to time the head that will arise in consequence of. its being rolled over. After being attended to in this man- ner for two or three days, the casks should be bunged tight, and a hole bored with a gimlet near the bung, with a vent-peg or spile fitted to it, which should be left slack for a day or two. 3362. In toarm weather the beer is apt to ferment, and a hissing may sometimes be per- ceived at the bung-hole, or the vent-hole: when this is the case, the vent-peg may be loosened a little every day till the liquor has become quiet The bungs and vent-pegs should be frequently examined in warm weather. 3363. Tapping the casks.— Most persons at all accustomed to a cellar know how to tap a cask. In driving in the cock with a mallet take care to drive straight, for if put in crooked it is very likely to leak. When the greatest part of the beer is drawn out of a cask, it is necessary to tilt it, or make it lean forward a little, by means of wedges, which is called stooping: care must be taken not to shake the beer, lest it get thick. _ 3364. The proper management of the vent-peg is of great consequence; and it is necessary that the principle upon which it operates should be clearly understood. It is well known that it is impossible to draw beer from a cask of which the bung is closed, except there is .1 small hole in the top of the cask, stopped occasionally by a peg. If there be no such hole the beer will not flow, because no air can get in to supply the place of what comes out. If a hole was left constantly open, all the carbonic acid disengaged from the beer would escape, and common air get in, which would soon cause the liquor to turn flat, and then sour. Therefore, upon putting the cask into its place, a small hole is bored in the top with a gimlet, and a peg fitted to it. On drawing a small quantity of beer for the first time from the cask, the peg is taken out, and air admitted, and then the hole is closed by the peg. After some time, when more beer is to be drawn, the peg is not to be taken out, for by this time some fixed air will have been dis- engaged from the beer, and will occupy the upper part of the cask, exciting a considerable pressure on the surface of the liquor in the cask, fig. 560. The beer will therefore flow out until the elasticity of the included air is brought down to that of the common air outside the cask. But it will flow somewhat longer than that, for the force which the beer by its own weight will exert to come out, will occasion the air in the cask to be in some degree rarefied ; but when it becomes so much so that its , elasticity is less than a counterbalance to the pressure of tlie atmosphere upon the W aperture of the cock, the beer will cease to flow. It is necessary then to take out 11 lj~ I ~ I 11 '^e peg, and the air may be heard rushing in to fill up tlie vacancy made by ^'^iJ'/J 11 II IIJ drawing off the beer. As soon as the noise ceases, the peg must be carefully replaced; for, if left out, the beer would be spoiled. When the peg is replaced. Fig. 560. some more may be drawn as before; but the flowing of the beer can only proceed to a certain point, and then it is necessary to take out the peg to admit air, and so on, till the whole is drawn off. It is evident, therefore, that the surface of the beer in the cask is constantly covered with a stratum of air ; at first this is chiefly carbonic acid, which will nreserve the beer ; but by degrees, as this escapes, and the proportion of common air increases, the beer will first become flat, and ultimately sour, if it remain long enough, before it is consumed. 3363. Beer, when once fit for use, should not be agitated. The removal or disturbance of a cask of beer is always injurious, though none of the sediment called grounds or lees of the fermenting tub may have been put into the cask; but as some yeast is gradually produced by the slow fermentation, and is deposited in the form of lees, little motion will stir this up, and render the whole contents of the cask muddy ; besides, such lees are liable to induce a new fermentation, whicli tends to spoil the beer. If it be required to transfer the beer into another cask, it must be done very carefully, without disturbing the sediment at the bottom. This is best efiected by means of the syphon. It Is also requisite that the cask should be tapped at such a distance from the bottom, as to allow the beer to flow clear of that sediment which may have collected there. Beer is sometimes injured during thunder-storms, and has been turned hard or sour— an effect not easily explained, although probably connected with the electricity of the atmosphere at the time; or, as some suppose, it may be occasioned by a tremulous fliotion induced by the thunder. To guard as much as possible against the agitation of the beer by this cause, the casks should not touch the walls or ground, but be placed upon wooden supports, which should be pitched and painted, to prevent rotting. 3366. WImi beer has become hard in the cellar, and it is desired to destroy this quality, some mix with it an equal quantity of new beer, and others add hops in the proportion of half a pound to a kilderkin, or rather boil the hops in some beer, strain the liquor, and put this in the casks, and then bung up ; this in a few weeks will render the beer much more palatable. A better mode is to prepare a small quantity of fresh wort, and after filtering it through a flannel bag, add it to the ale that is hard or flat in the proportion of ; a quart to a barrel; this will renew the fermentation in some degree, and give the ale briskness. 3367. Methods of correcting the acidity of beer. — Even after much care in brewing, I malt liquors will sometimes become acid. On the first signs of acidity, it is necessary to do something to check, by the method just pointed out, what would, if neglected, ulti- I mately cause the whole to turn sour. Every degree of sourness in beer proceeds from a commeiiccmont of this acctoua fermentation If tlie Qq 2