Chap. II. HATS, CAPS, AND OTHER COVERINGS FOR THE HEAD. 1017 with the crown was not made at the edge, but in the crown itself. The plush or velvet employed in covering these hats was at first made upon a cotton foundation, which cannot receive the same brilliant black dye as the silk; the best silk hats are now covered with a plush made wholly of silk. It is said tliat the French make a better silk material for covering hats than we can, and their material is imported by us and put on beaver bodies, which are then called Pan* Jiats; this material has a shorter nap, and looks smoother and more glossy than ours. Silk hats are also frequently made upon a very light body, as willow, covered with a plush of floss silk, and sold under the name of gossamer hats, which serve very well for summer wear, but which are not calculated for bad weather; some of these are sold as low as five or six shillings, and really, while in good condition, look very well. A fabric has also been woven from threads cut from whalebone, which is extremely elastic and durable ; this serves for the body of the hat, and being stiffened with resinous varnish, the silk is applied on the outside. 6002. Waterproof hats, made so by a stiffening applied within of shell-lac, or India rubber, have the inconvenience of preventing the perspiration of the head from escaping, and are therefore disagreeably hot, particularly in summer. 6003. When a beaver or silk hat has been wetted with rain, on coming into the house, it should be wiped dry and brushed, to lay the nap smooth. If put away and suffered to dry without that precaution, the nap wiU be rough, and brushing will not lay it smooth and restore its gloss. 6004. Much more attention and care are bestowed upon t/ic hal in England than on llie Continent; here every person of any respectability talies care to appear in public in a good liat. Foreigners are less solicitous about this part of dress. . 6005. Travelling cases are made for /lats ; those who wish to preserve this article perfect make use of a travelling cap, and send the hat in its case as part of the luggage. 6006. Straw hats are in very general wear for women, and also occasionally for men : they are not a modern invention, the neighbourhood of Dunstable having been celebrated for a century and a half as the principal seat of the manufacture, which employs a great many persons. 6007. Dunstable hats are made of whole straw plaited in long narrow strips or ribands, which are afterwards sewed together in the form of a hat or bonnet. The weight and clumsy appearance of these bonnets first suggested the idea of dividing the straw into strips ; but it was a considerable time before a method was invented of performing this in' a perfect manner. 6008. Split strata is an elegant manufacture brought into use about forty years ago, and has now become very general for women's bonnets. The straw of wheat or of rye is cut at the joints, and the outer skin being removed, it is sorted into small bundles, and is next split by means of a very simple instrument, and delivered to be plaited. The plait is sold by the score yards, and about three score and a half will make an ordinary-sized bonnet. It is sewed by the bonnet makers, and then blocked, which is a laborious process; and, after being pressed, wired, and lined, it is ready for sale. There are markets in the plait districts for the sale of straw, plait, and bonnets ; the best market for the latter is at St. Alban's. The various forms of bonnets into which the straw plait is worked up, varying continually with fashion, baffles all description, and is a subject well understood. 6009. Straw is bleached, and straw hats cleaned, by putting them into a cask into which a few brimstone matches are placed lighted. The fumes of the sulphur have the effect of destroying the colour, or whitening the straw. The same effect may be produced by dipping the straw into the chloride of lime dissolved in water, an article which may now be produced at any large chemist's. Of the straw hats, the Leghorn are the most highly prized, as the finest in the world; these are made in the neighbourhood of Florence, Pisa, the district of Sienna, and the upper part of the Vale of the Arno, and are exported from Leghorn. The straw is produced from a small kind of wheat cultivated on a poor soil, and bleached like flax ; it is remarkable for its strength and whiteness ; the plait is extremely regular, and the straw is not split. Attempts have been made to grow this kind of wheat in England, but they have not succeeded. 6010. White lininys to hats or bonnets, particularly when they are glazed or shining, as some silks, are hurtful to the eyes, in consequence of their reflecting a great deal of light, and are somewhat similar in their effects to snow, which is known to be extremely injurious to the sight. These linings ought to be of dark colours, grey, or green, and should not be of glossy materials. 6011. Various other materials besides straw are used for making light hats. Several grasses have been tried, but none have been found to equal wheat straw. Chip, which is the thin strips of wood made by a plane, is employed; the willow is found to answer well, and these strips are woven with a loom into a kind of twill or diamond tissue, and afterwards bleached like straw. A hat made of two folds of this has a considerable resemblance to Leghorn.