494 ON FOOD. Book VII. Azores, packed in paper in the same manner as oranges. The Spanish are the most esteemed : those of St. Helena are extremely fine, growing larger and milder than the others. This fruit is not an article of mere luxury, but is almost an essential for culinary and many other purposes. The juice consists chiefly of the citric acid, which, besides its agreeable flavour, is particularly cooling and grateful. But the discovery of its anti- scorbutic influence gives it a still higher value. 2715. The scurvy, formerly so fatal in ships making long voyages, is now almost wholly unknown in them—a result that is, in a great measure, to be attributed to the regular allow- ance of lemon juice served out to the men. The juice may be preserved in bottles for a considerable time by covering it with a thin stratum of oil ; thus secured, great quantities of it are exported from Italy and Turkey to various parts of the world : it is also fre- quently administered as a medicine, and is extensively employed in the manufacture of \ punch. The citric acid is also prepared in a pure state, and crystallised, by which means it can be presei-ved in any climate, and for any length of time, but it is found that the crystallised acid is inferior to the recent juice. Shrub is made of lemon juice, sugar, and rum. 2716. The outward rind or peel of the lemon contains a highly odoriferous essential oil, and on that account it is a valuable and agreeable stomachic, and is used for flavouring a variety of dishes; it is warm, aromatic, and slightly bitter : it is also made into an excel- lent sweetmeat when cleared of the pulp, and preserved by sugar, well known by the name of candied lemon peel. A liqueur is made by the inhabitants of Barbadoes from lemon peel, in a manner peculiar to themselves, called Eau de Barbade. S0BSECT. 4.— Citron (^Citrus Medica, Linn.). 2717. This fruit (fig. 514.) belongs to the same species as the lemon, being considered only as a variety, the distinction between them not being very great. It is larger and less succulent, but more acid: with a little artificial heat the citron comes to as great perfection in England as in Spain and Italy, The fruit is oblong, and about five or six inches in length. The tree is thorny. The juice forms an excellent lemonade with sugar and water. Its use in punch, negus, and in medicine, are well known. The rind is very thick, and when candied with sugar forms an excellent sweetmeat. There are several varieties cultivated in England, one of which is termed the forbidden fruit. SuBSECT. 5. — Shaddock {Citrus decumand). 2718. This is also a variety of the same species as the lemon and orange. It is much larger than these, the fruit being from three to six inches in diameter. Though a native of China, it is cultivated largely in the West Indies, where it was first carried by Captain Shaddock. In its native country it is a sweet fruit, with little acidity : but in the West Indies, through neglect in its cultivation, it has degenerated into a sour fruit It is handsome, and contains abundance of juice, which, diluted, is used as a beverage, and in making punch. Though less agreeable in its flavour than the orange, it keeps fresh and good longer at sea: hence it is valuable. SuBSECT. 6.—Lime (Citrus acida, Rox). 2719. This (Jig.515.) is also a variety of the lemon, but much smaller, being only about an inch or an inch and a half in dia- meter. It is not much cultivated in Europe, but being more acid and cooling than the lemon, it is a great favourite in the West Indies, where lime punch is more esteemed than any other. The greatest part of our citric acid is prepared from its juice. There are several varieties. Sect, V. PULPY FRUITS, 2720. These have their seeds lying among the pulp, and are not inclosed in a nnt or membrane like the grape. SunsECT. 1,—Fine-apple (Brornelia Ananas, lAnn.). 2721. It is the gardener's boast that this delicious fruit is produced in every part of