370 ON FOOD. Book VJ I. Fresh air and exercise are essential to the life and health of every liviug creature • and this IS, no doubt, one reason why the mutton from sheep fed upon downs and mountains which have a long way to roam for food, is superior to any other in high flavour, althou"-h' It be lean. Methods of fattening are often resorted to, unnatural, and even cruel. Some of the means depend upon supplying the animals with a great quantity of food, and de- priving them of exercise. Ducks and geese are prevented from going into the water which would hinder them from becoming fat. Fowls are fattened for the London market by keeping them in a dark place, and cramming them with a paste made of barley meal, mutton suet, with some treacle or coarse sugar mixed with milk, which in a fortnight has the desired effect. If kept in this manner for a longer time, the fever that is brought on by this mode of treatment renders the flesh red, and often kills them. The flesh of poultry fed in this way is never so well flavoured as when they run loose in the barn vard. and probably it is not so salubrious. 1816. The meAhods resorted to by epicures to produce an unnatural enlargement of parti- cular parts of some animals—as the livers of geese and turkeys — are so cruel that we do not think it necessary to record them, as we never wish to see the palate gratified at the expense of so great a loss of feeling as must be the result of such practices. 1817. Animals .seldom become fat in their ivild state; but, from the quantity of exercise j ■which they take, and the free air which they breathe, they are, generally speaking, in a more healthy condition than those which are domesticated ; and their flesh, though tougher, more fibrous, and sinewy, has often a higher flavour, and is more nutritive. Their good qualities as food are improved by exercise previous to their being killed, as is the case in the hunting of game. Wild birds are more highly flavoured than fowls ■which are domesticated. 1818. Tlie mode of killing animals has a considerable' influence upon the quality and fla- vour of the flesh. Animals that die a natural death should never be eaten, as their death is generally the consequence of disease, and their flesh is then unwholesome ; and it •was a wise injunction of the Jewish legislator not to use these as food. This observation, however, does not apply to the case of animals being killed by accident, as by being drowned, hanged, or fi-ozen, by a fall, or by a ferocious animal these are only defective in being not at all or imperfectly bled, which is the case with those that are snared, and "with such as are killed by hounds. AVhatever exhausts or destroys suddenly the irritability of the living muscular fibre tends to induce rapid decomposition: thus, when animals are killed by lightning, putre- faction soon takes place. This is the case likewise with animals killed after being long hunted : the violent exer- cise they undergo exhausts the irritability, and causes the fibre to be less rigid, or more tender, after death, from the greater liability to decomposition. Formerly it was a bar- barous custom, sanctioned by an express law, that all bulls were hunted or baited with dogs previous to being slaughtered, from the known fact, that baiting or hunting had the effect of rendering the meat more tender ; but this cruel and dangerous practice is now very properly laid aside. The completeness of the bleeding, or emptying the vessels of blood, appears to be important; as, when the meat has not been well bled, it changes sooner, and is dark coloured. Veal and pork, particularly, depend much upon the bleed- ing for their whiteness ; accordingly, most of the animals slaughtered for food are either bled to death, or are bled as soon as possible after being killed in some other way. The Jews bleed their meat more completely than Christians, on account of their law which forbids them to eat blood. 1819. The method of slaugh/erii'g large animals amongst us is this: — Tlipy are commonly kept vrithouC food for some time ; ijecause, if killed witli full stomachs, their flesh is considered not to keep well. Oxen arc made to fast for two or three days ; smaller animals, as calves and sheep, for a d,iy: but if this practice be carried too far, the object will be defi^ated, by the animals falling off or becoming feverish. Oxen are killed by striking them on the foreliead with a pole-axe, to stun them and cause them to fall, and they are then bled by dividiDR the blood-vessels of the throat. As this method has the appearance of cruelty, I and is not free from danger if the operation is unskilfully performed, some, and in particular Lord .Sonier- I ville, have recommended a mode pr.ictiscd in Barbary, Sp.-iin, and Portugal, called pilhing, which consists in I thrusting a sharp knife at once into the spinal marrow above the origin of the phrenic nerves, by which the I animal drops down in an instant without the smallest struggle, after which it is bled by dividing the arteries about the heart. Notwithstanding the apparent adv.intages of this mode, it is but little employed in Brit.iin ; and it is said that the method is only app.ircntly less cruel; for, though the puncture of the spinal marrow renders the body motionless, it does not destroy feeling; and that the anim.il is even m.ide to die a more painful death, where,as. in the usual method, a concussion of the brain is caused by the blow, by which all feeling is destroyed. It is said also that the flesh of cattle killed by pithing is dark-coloured, owing to im- perfect bleeding, as the action of the heart ceases before the lileeding is attempted, in consequence of which the blood does not flow freely. I'hc method of slaughtering practised bi/ the Jetes is very effectual in bleeding completely ; .and they will not eat flesh except the animal has been killed by one of their own persuasion. Their method is to tie all the four feet of the animal together, bring it to the ground, and, turning back its head, cut the thro.it at once with a long and extremely sharp knife, in consequence of which all the blood-vessels are severed, ami the blood is discharged quickly and completely. All calves, pigs, sheep, and lambs, are killed by dividing the blood-vessels of the neck. . , , . . 1820 It is Itighly riesiralile that, in adopting the most Judicious method of performing such necessary oper- ations, all unnecessary cruelty sliouhl be avoided, not only on account of the animals themselves, but also ol the bad effect produced on the minds of those who have to practise the art of butchery. It has been state* i