LAMPS. Chap. IV. 1G5 : respect to their liability to clog the wick. The purer the oil, the better will be the I light it gives ; and it will, in general, in the best lamps, be found most economical to use ; the best oil, instead of the cheapest ; bad oil occasioning smoke, much trouble, and injury t to the lamps. 729. Lamps m which the wicks lie horizoniully, and that come in contact with the air, : are not so liable to gather this accumulation of coaly matter, as those which are upright. The wick of the Argand lamp also collects very little, on account of the current of air ; inside and outside the flame. A number of small wicks placed near together will not i acciunulate so much black matter as a single large wick, because in the small wicks the J air penetrates into the group of flames. 730. Although fixed oil remains fluid at our ordinary temperature, yet it congeals in very icold weather. It becomes thick, and though not quite solid, yet too much so to be drawn I up by the wick. 'SVhen it is found in this state, it must be placed at a little distance from I the fire to malie it become liquid. It may be interesting to mention that the thickening (.of the oil by cold is an imperfect kind of crystallization; and that Dr. Clarke found at oone time, that it had formed regular crystals; the temperature 35°. 731. In the management of the simple lamp, several things are necessaiy to be observed. IThe wick should not be twisted too much, for if it be too compact the oil will not rise rreadily in it; nor should it be too loose, for this will cause the capillary attracting power iito raise too much oil. With regard to the distance of the flame from the surface of the i>oil, if it be too near, too much oil will be raised, more than can be readily consumed; in oconsequence the light will be weak, and the flame will be in danger of being put out. If •lithe distance be too great, the capillary attraction will not raise oU enough. From this it las obvious, that most lamps require constant attention to the wick, otherwise the light will l»be very unequal. It is an improvement to have the wick pass through a very short tube, Kwhich assists in raising oil equally. 732. Cotton is found to be the best material for forming wicks; so remarkably is this the case, that spun cotton was imported from the Levant for the wicks of lamps in England, jages before it was made use of by the weaver. 733. Argand lamps require particular care. It is necessary that they should be trimmed idaily : and they should be thoroughly cleaned out twice or thrice every year, by pouring »wann water into them, having a little pearl-ash dissolved in it: this will bring away the oil ;tthat has thickened and collected in the tubes, thus clogging them up and preventing the [i^assage of the oil and air. The alkali or pearl-ash in this operation combines with the 'Oil and forms a soap, which, being soluble in water, easily comes out by agitation. Warm nrater alone might melt the oil, but it could not dissolve and bring it away like the II kali. It is also necessary in trimming, that the wick should be cut perfectly level with scis- -sors : any ragged bits on the edge of the wick occasion the flame to be uneven and '<.o smoke in some places. Care should be taken that the holes through which the air is supplied to the interior of the flame are not stopped up, as they are apt to be, with bits of i.'otton, tow, and oil, during the cleaning and trimming ; if they are clogged, the supply of iiiir is not sufficient, and the lamp will smoke. Sect. XXIL expeditious methods of procuring light. 734. There are many occasions when there is a necessity for procuring a light where 10 fire is at hand : either for the purpose of kindling a fire, or of lighting a lamp or .;andle: and though most of these methods are now pretty well known in this country, ,'et it will be proper to say something respecting them, to point out the advantages of .'ach, and, in some cases, the danger in using them. 735. Flint and steel. This simple and ancient method of procuring a light, is still one ■>f the best, notwithstanding several late inventions have some advantages. The flint nade use of is of the same kind as is used in muskets and fowling-pieces, but the pieces ire of a larger size, aud are made somewhat of a wedge form for the convenience of striking fire more readily : this kind of flint is found no where but in the chalk strata, fhe steel usually employed is made of a convenient form, and should be well tempered : in old file will do as a make-shift upon occasions when no proper steel is to bo had. It is important that the tinder should be carefuUy burned and kept dry : the brimstone Hatches are well known. When the flint, steel, and matches are in perfect order, nothing s more easy than to procure a light by this apparatus, and its perfect safety is a great recom- nendation ; a single stroke of the flint is generally sufficient to set fire to the tinder, and he match lights by slightly blowing up the ignited tinder : and yet how often do we hear ■epeated hammering with the flint and steel before the desired cll'ect is produced ? The ;ause is generally tliis ; the flint, which is not expensive, has been so much used, that all ts sharp edges are worn oft', and these are necessary to act upon the steel: or the tinder M 3