RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. 910 mering those over the fire for a few mmutcs, the patties may be filled. Lemon-juice, if added, must be put in at last, after the composition is withdrawn from the fire. • 11245. Patties of forcemeats, siicli as those compounded of sweetbreads, herbs, and panada, or any other light forcemeat, must be united witli the yolk and white of egg, and baited in the patties. When biUied the covers must l)e removed while some strong consomme or hcchamelle is added. ' 5246. Patties of game may be made of any cold pheasant, partridge, or wooilcock, finely minced with esch-alot ■ mushrooms and truffles, and seasoned with c.iyenne. To tliese may be added either sauce vcloutc or becliamelle, with flour to thicken. After simmering for a few minutes, this savoury meat may be nut hito the patties. j t Sect. IX. COOKING VEGETABLES. For a description of the vegetables, see Book VII. Chap. VIIL 5247. Potatoes. — These should be selected of the same size, because if boiled together the small ones will be overdone and the larger remain hard. Let them be pared, and put on in cold water, by which tliey get gradually heated: they should boil very slowly; fast boiling breaks them, and lets in the water. Feel with a fork when they are done enough. Wlien they are sufficiently boiled pour the water from them, throw in some salt, cover them with a napkin to absorb the vapour that may arise, and put them by the side of the fire to keep hot. Some prefer cooking them by steam. Potatoes half-boiled may be sliced and broiled, or they may be fried until they acquire a nice brown. Potatoes three parts done may be put into the dripping-pan to receive the drippings from the meat: in this way they are excellent, and at the same time economy is considted. Potatoes roasted in the Dutch oven, or baked, do not require paring, but only to be well cleaned. Potatoes mashed after they have been boiled ought to be beaten smooth in a mortar or potato masher, and mixed with the yolk of an egg and cream, or, if you have no cream, with hot milk and some butter; add salt, and put them in either dish or scollop-shells, or they may be warmed in a saucepan constantly stirred. The surface may afterwards be browned with the salamander. 5248. Cabbage and greens. — All the cabbage tribe, which includes cauliflower, brocoli, coleworts, sprouts, and turnip tops, in order to be delicate, should be dressed young, when they have a rapid growth ; but if they have stood the summer, they require to have felt the influence of the frost to become tender. In order to appear green at table they must be boiled in hard water. Greens of the above description, when of advanced growth, are better flavoured when boiled in two waters, which is managed in the following manner : After they have been about half boiled, take them out of the pot, place them in the cullender, and allow cold water to run on them for two or three minutes; then replace them in a fresh pot of boiling water with some salt, and let them continue to boil briskly till done. Cauliflower should boil more slowly, as it is apt to be broken by the force of a violent ebullition. Brocoli to be freed of its ofiensive odour should always be boiled in two waters. 5249. Carrots when young require to be simply boiled till they are sufficiently tender, which may be known by passing a fork into them ; but during the winter, they are apt to become in parts hard and stringy ; when they are in this state, they may be cut into lengths convenient for boiling, and their internal and stringy part, which is very indi'^ gestible, may be scooped out by a small gouge. 5250. Turnips are seldom served whole, but, after they have been boiled, ai-e sent to table mashed. When stringy, they must be passed through a coarse sieve. In order to mash them, let the water be well pressed from them ; add sufficient butter, salt, and pepper, with a little powdered white sugar, which much improves their flavour. A little flour mixed with the butter renders the turnips less watery when mashed. 5251. Spinach, after being well picked, may be boiled in water with some salt; or it may be put into the saucepan and boiled in the juice which itself afibrds. When done enoun-h, let the water be pressed from it, and when put into the dish divide it into squares. Spinach when boiled may be finely chopped and mixed in a stew-pan with some cream previously heated ; add some pepper, salt, and a little powdered sugar. If you prefer a slightly acid flavour, add a tea-spoonful of lemon-juice after it is removed from the fire. Avoid stewing spinach in butter, as the heat it commimicates renders it crisp, and destroys its colour. Fried toasts are usually served round the dish when spinach is stewed in this manner. . . . ■ , n 5252. Asparagus and sea kale. — The latter requires simply boiling, over a brisk fire. Asparagus, when properly scraped, and cut of an uniform length, are tied up in bundles and boifed. A toast moistened in some of the liquor is sent up with both, and they are eaten with melted butter, salt, and pepper. When the asiiaragus is young and so slender that they are not fit to be brought to table dressed whole, the green tops and more tender parts may be cut into pieces and boiled till more than half done in salt and water ; let them drain, and when you have melted some flour and butter in a small stew-pan, moisten with a spoonful or two of veal consomme, to which add a lump of sugar j next work the yolk