466 Book VII. ON FOOD, stimulant. There are various kinds, but tliey are generally divided into the turnip and spindle-rooted radish. Many are forced for the early market, and the young seedling leaves are sometimes used for small salad. The seed pods, when green, used to be pickled as a substitute for capers, and formerly the leaves were boiled as potherbs. The colour of radishes varies extremely; passing from white to red, and through every shade of that to a dark purple, approaching to black. Professor Burnett states that the roots when boiled and served with toast and butter, and seasoned with pepper, have much the taste of sea-kale or asparagus, and form a very palatable dish. SuBSECT. 9. — Skirret (^Sium sisarum, Linn.) 2485. This root is composed of several tap roots, the size of the little finger; and, though now little used, was formerly much esteemed boiled and served up with butter. Worlidge, in 1682, speaks of them as the " sweetest, whitest, and most pleasant of roots." It is a native of China. Sect. V. SPINACEOUS PLANTS. The name of this tribe is derived from spinach, the principal plant among them. SuBSECT. 1. — Spinach (^Spinacia oleracea, Linn.). 2486. A wild spinach grojvs in England, somewhat different from the garden variety, but cultivated in Lincolnshire in preference. The leaves are used as spinach, and the young shoots as asparagus. Spinach is known to have grown here at an early period; and in the monasteries on the Continent it was employed in 1351 as we do at present. 2487. The leaves of the garden spinach are softer and more succulent than any of the brassica tribe. There are three principal varieties ; one the common spinach, having the leaves round ; another having long triangular leaves ; the third is called Plunder's spinach, and has remarkable large leaves ; the round-leaved is procured in the spring, and the long-leaved in the winter. Spinach forms a useful ingredient in soups, and the leaves are also boiled alone and mashed as greens. 2488. Orache, or mountain spinach, is a hardy sort, much esteemed in France, that produces abundance of large leaves, and forms an excellent summer vegetable. It is a native of Tartary, introduced in 1548. There are two varieties, the white and the red: the young and tender stalks are eaten as well as the leaves. 2489. JVeu! Zealand spinach (^Tetragonia expansu) was discovered in New Zealand by Sir Joseph Banks, who brought it to England. It is found to grow here perfectly well in the open air, and its leaves are larger and more juicy than the common spinach. It produces fine succulent leaves in the hottest weather in great luxuriance, and has the advantage of being in season when the common spinach is not. 2490. Chenopodium Quinoa. This variety is not only useful in its leaves for spinach, but the seeds of the yellow variety are excellent when used as millet, and it bears them abundantly. SuBSECT. 2.— Wliite Beet (Beta cicla. Linn.). 2491. Tliis variety of beet is distinguished by its large svcculent leaves, which alone are eaten, and not the root, which is small. It is cultivated in gardens as a culinary vegetable, and is boiled as spinach, or put into soups. It is less known here than on the Continent, where, in many parts of Germany, France, and Switzerland, it forms one of the principal vegetables used by agricultural labourers and small occupiers of land. 2492. A large variety, known by the name of Swiss chard, produces numerous large succulent leaves, which have a solid rib running along the middle. The leafy part being stripped off and boiled is used as a substitute for greens and spinach, and the ribs and stalks are dressed like asparagus or scorzoncra, or sliced and stewed; they have a sweetish taste like sea-kale, and are more wholesome than the cabbage tribe; but some consider them as having an earthy taste, and upon the whole they are not much esteemed. Cattle are very fond of the leaves, which occasion them to give much milk without affecting its taste like turnips or cabbages. SuBSECT. 3. — Sorrel {Rumen acetosa. Linn.). 2493. Sorrel is much used in French and but little in English cookery. It grows wild in our meadows, but is sometimes cultivated in the garden. The leaves are remarkable for their acidity, and are much employed on the Continent in soups, sauces, and salads : but the French sorrel is different from ours, being round leaved, and very superior in flavour to our common garden sorrel.