327 CONDITION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. Chap. I. Y 4 consider it as a mode full of temptation to petty thieving in servants scarcely to be re- sisted, and hence its evils are greater than its advantages. 1466. For servants left in houses when families are a'bsent from home, board wages form both a proper and convenient mode of fulfilling the master*s obligation to provide food for them. Board wages for men vary according to the circumstances of the family paying them, from twelve to four- teen shillings per week : for women, from eight shillings to twelve per week. Servants living on board wages usually club together, and appoint the cook of the family to be their caterer ; or, in some cases, the cook contracts with the rest to provide them at so much per head their dinners and suppers. A third ar- rangement is sometimes adopted. Food generally is provided for the establishment, but money is allowed each servant to provide for himself beer, sugar, and tea. For beer the allowance in money is two shillings per week for each man servant, and one shilling per week for each female servant. For tea and sugar, some families allow one pound per annum to each servant, others two pounds. 0/ these modes the principals of families adopt that which to each family respectively appears to be most convenient or economical. Servants have no choice in the matter, farther than that of declining to serve in families where arrangements of this nature appear to them objectionable, or not conducted in a manner likely to promote their daily comfort. 1467. The meals of servants in small families, and of limited means, generally take place immediately after, and upon the remains of, the family meals. In such cases the hours of the family are early and regular, or the arrangement would prove uncomfortable and injurious to the health of servants, whose constant active tmployments render regularity in their roeals of great importance to them. SuBsBcT. 2. —Dress of Servants. 1468. TTie dress of men servants is regulated by the style and rank of the families whom they serve. Great neatness, and even a gentlemanly appearance, is expected at all times in the upper servants, and especially when in attendance on their principals. Whether servants be in or out of livery, they must, when attending at table, always appear in clean ■white cravats, and in white stockings, either of cotton or of silk. Men servants out of Uvenj provide their own clothes, their wages being proportionally higher than those of livery ser\-ants. 1469. Livery, formerly the cavalier's badge of devotion to some fair lady, whose livery he assumed at " tilt or tournament," is at present only a mark of service. 1470. Livery, in some families of quality, is a part of the inheritance handed down to them in succession from one generation to another, and generally has some relation to the colours of the arms. Of those who have no long line of ancestry to boast of, the livery is often matter of fancy and choice only, and is costly or plain according to the ; style, fortune, or taste of each family, and on whom, and not on the servants, the charge I of providing it falls. 1471. A livery consists of a complete suit of clothes. The allowance of suits in the year • to each servant varies in the diiferent families of genteel life, from two to one suit of I dress livery, with one suit of undress clothes, to be worn during the hours of work, or 1 during occasional absences from home of the family. One hat each year is generally ] provided by the master ; but linen, gloves, stockings, and shoes, the livery servant pro- • vides for himself. He also pays for his own washing, with the exception of his linen, . jackets, and aprons, which are usually sent to the laundry to be washed, or with the : family linen. 1472. At tables where style is kept up, servants are expected to attend in silk stockings, and with either silk ( or white kid gloves. In such houses the wages are, or ought to be, proportionably high. The use of gloves i in waiting at table has superseded th.it of the table napkin wrapped round the hand of the servant employed I ill presenting articles to those at table. Neater in appearance, and less troublesome to the waiter, the use of I gloves may be regarded as an improvement on the old fashion ; but it is somewhat more expensive to the I servant. 1473. For the rough business which footmen undert.ike to do, when they enter families where only one I man servant is kept, the master usually provides his footman witli a coarse jacket and large trowsers, which ( cover over the whole of his dress. Jackets of linen, or coloured cottons, and white aprons, are also allowed I him, in which he may, without impropriety, answer bells in the morning. In this dress he usually performs 1 much of his morning's work, .and dresses himself either before luncheon, or before the dinner hour. 1174. A coachman has one livery, also two hats, .md two piiirs of boots, allowed him annually, and a box ^ coat once in three or four years ; also one or two stable dresses, consisting of rowels, a jacket, a waistcoat, i and one undress frock coat. 147.'i. The under ranchman has nearly the same allowance of clothes. To grooms are allowed yearly two i suits of livery and two stable dresses. To postilioos three sets of jackets in two years, and a cap yearly. 1476. The dress of female servants, although usually left to their own discretion, may 1 be, and generally is, influenced by the opinion of their employers as to its suitableness and (consistency. A mistress may require her maid servants to expend a portion of their 'wages on neat and creditable clothing. Beyond this she may have no right to interfere ; ibut by a judicious use of her influence she may restrain them from running into extrava- igance and inconsistency of dress, and consequently from many errors into which thejr ivanity might lead them. Of late years the low price of most of the articles of clothing 1 has introduced into many classes a more showy style of dress than they formerly indulged I in, and among maid servants this is particularly evident. 1477. Of neatness nf dress .-ill must approve : it i.i inconsistency, in point of expense, of form, or of colour, \with the means or daily avocations of any cl.ass of society, that alone Is c('nsurable. 147H. In largo estjiblishments of servants, there are diflerent ranks, as in more general society, in which the avornllons vary, I'roin tho.so which are laliDrimis to those compar.-itively light and easy. In the discliarge of these different employments, a diflerent style in ilrrss may bo not only admissible, but consistent. The house-