310 Book V. ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. and Romans, the latter of -whom introduced it into this country. Various Roman, British, and Saxon enamelled trinkets have been found in England ; and a gold cup ornamented witli enamel, given by King John to the corporation of Lynn in Norfolk, is still preserved. Enamelling is generally done upon grounds of metal, which must be so difficult of fusion as to resist the heat necessary to melt the enamel: gold is the hast, but copper is most usually employed. The imitative enamel used for the dials of Dutch clocks is a kind of japan painting, and is not formed of glass. Sect. VIIL glass beads. 1374. The manufacture of glass beads is simple. A short thick rod of coloured glass with a hole made tlirough it: this is drawn out in a heated state by two men running in opposite directions, and by this very long tubes are procured of the size of the beads required. These rods are chipped into short pieces of the length of the bead. The perforations in the pieces are then filled with sand and ashes by shaking them up with them in a bowl with a little water. This is done to prevent the bore from filling up when they are subjected to heat to cause such a degree of fusion as to take ofiF the angles and cause the beads to acquire a globular form. They are afterwards washed to separate the ashes, and are then strung by children. The largest manufactory in the world for beads is at a place called Murano, very near to Venice. Inmense quantities of these, of above sixty different kinds, are exported. For imitation pearh, see "Jewellery." Sect. IX. DUTY ON GLASS. 1375. The manufacture of glass is subjected to the excise : but lately the duty on flint glass has been reduced from sixpence to twopence per pound. 1376. Some enthusiastic persons have imagined that we might easily procure glass in any quantity, since it may be formed of the sand of the sea-shore, and the ashes of burnt sea- weeds. But an acquaintance with the real processes of a manufactm-e will tend to con-ect these speculations. It is not every kind of sand that will do for making good transparent glass. It must be purely siliceous, and sand sufficiently so is very rare, and of course forms a valuable property to the owner of the land where it is procured. The glass- maker must therefore pay a considerable price for this material and its carriage : or should he use inferior sand, the coiTecting of the effects of the impurities, which give a bad colour to his glass, will be still more expensive. Flints will do, but they are not to be procured but in certain parts of the country, and they must be calcined and ground. The siliceous material fit for a glass only half transparent, and of a dark green colour, are indeed extremely cheap, consisting of impure sand, or even basalt. Our native alkali used for glass is chiefly procured from kelp or from sea-salt, but requires considerable labour to produce. The vegetable alkali is imported, and though the woods of America and Norway are boundless, yet the glass-maker must pay a high price for his pearlash. The ashes which we could make from common weeds, though useful in washing, would go a very little way in the manufacture of glass. The heat required for glass-making is intense : but to produce this, very large and strong furnaces are required to be built in an expensive manner, at a cost of several thousand pounds; added to which, workmen are necessary who have acquired great skill by long practice, and to whom high wages must be given. Capital also must be found, and talents to conduct a manufacture success- fully. When all these circumstances are taken iuto the account, and none can l>e omitted in fair reasoning, it is easy to perceive that there are various natural limits to the cheap- ness of glass; and that although by the improvements in manufactures, reduction of duties, and other causes, it is not difiicnlt to contemplate the possibility of this very valu- able material becoming still more abundant, and applicable to more purposes than it is yet applied to, yet an accurate knowledge of the general facts in its manufacture will correct extravagant expectations. Semi-transparent glass, which would admit a certain quantity of light, without allowing objects to be seen through it, might be made at a greatly cheaper rate ; but from what we have stated, it is obvious that making glass transparent and clear must always be an expensive process. Sect. X. GLASS MIRRORS. 1377. Tlie silvering of glass for mirrors is covering the back of the glass with a compo- sition or amalgam of tin and quicksilver. There is only one ])osition in which transpa- rent glass, not silvered, even when ground perfectly flat and polished, reflects the rays of