BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 098 tea in China, is tliat which -was given in evidence before the House of Commons, Sep- tember, 1834, by Mr. Reeves, who was for many years the East India Company's tea inspector. " The tc.i plant in China lias two distinct varieties, if not species, which respectively yield the blnck .ind tha j^rcen teas. Tlie tree is an evergreen. The pickings of the leaves begin in about May, when the plant is in full leaf, but ready to shoot out other leaves. In the black tea plant, the first shoot, or the bud coining out. then covered with air, forms the fine Jiowery pekoe. A lew days' more growth makes the hair begin to fall off; the leaf then expadds and becomes the black-trqffd pekue. Some young shoots have fleshier and finer leaves, which makes the Sourhoiig; the next best leaves make the Campoi ; the next Congou, and the refuse and inferior leaves the Buheti. These are the states in which the black teas are collected by the tea farmers ; and some very coarse teas used by the Chinese themselves are cheaper than the sloe leaves could be brought to market in this country. The tea of Woping in Canton is of this character. There is a greater difference in the qualities of black to.is tlian of green. " J'he varieties of green tea appe.ir to originate, not from the stagesof picking, like the black, but partly from difTerence of treatment and manipulation, partly from difference of soil. A large proportion of Twankay is the growth of a different district from that which produces the Hysons. When a tea merchant buys gieen tea Irom the farmer, he subjects it to the following process ; he sifts it tlirough one sieve, which takes out the dust, the young liysojt, and the gunpowder, then through another sieve, which passes the small leaf hyson of commerce ; two other sieves successively take out the second and largest degree of size, and what does not pass the third forms %son-s/rt'n. The teas then undergo the process of firing, in an iron pan, at a great degree of beat, which gives the leaves a lighter twist, and brings them up to their colour. The tea which passes the first sieve is then put into a winnowing machine, and the pan blows the light leaf at the farther end, and the larger broken leaf at a shorter distance. The heavier teas, as the gunpowder and hyson, fall nearer or farther from the hopper, according to their gravity, and are separated by the winnowing machine. When fairly made, the difl'erence Ijetween the gunpowder and the young hyson will be this: the young leaf which takes the long twist will form the young hyson, and that which takes the round twist will form the gun- powder. The same mode of manufacture is pursued with respect to twankay tea, the tine leaves of which make hyson." 400G. Another account states, that the drying of the leaves is begun in the sunshine, after which they are carried into houses erected for the purpose, with charcoal stoves, each being covered with a large flat iron pan, on which, after it is lieated to a c(!rtain degree, a half or three-quarters of a pound of the leaves are put, and stirred about briskly with a kind of brusli, to cause them to dry and curl up. They are then swept into baskets and rubbed or rolled between the hands to curl them still more, and again subjected to the heat of the stove. By repeating this process they are made to assume the appearance which we see. There is some difTerence between the modes of preparing the green and the black teas; but no authentic account of this differ- ence has yet been received in Britain. There is no truth, however, in the report, that green tea owes its colour to being dried upon plates of copper, for it is in fact dried upon iron plates. This tea has been carefully analysed, and chemical tests do not detect any copper, which would thus appear if any existed. It has l>een stated that some vegetable dyes are sometimes used by the Chinese for the green ; and it is asserted that they can make either black or green tea from the same leaves ; but however this may be, these two kinds of tea are mostly produced from different plants and in different districts. 4007. The poorer people of China, wlio grow a little tea in their own gardens, it is said, content themselves with drying the leaves in an iron kettle over a slow fire, shaking the kettle as the leaves dry and curl up, and stirring them with their hands ; when they judge the tea to be well done, they pack it in baskets, and hang it in the roofs of their cottages. It is not used imtil it has been kept a twelvemonth. Sect. III. VABIOUS KINDS OF TEA IMPORTED. 400S. The following is a list of the various kinds of tea usually imported into this country from China, with a statement of the prices paid for them at Canton, beginning with the lowest qualities. Black Teas. Bohea of Woping or Canton Bohea of Tokein Congou Campoi congou Souchong . Ankoi souchong Orange pekoe Caper Fine flowery pekoe s. from 0 _ 0 d. s. d. 6 to 0 7 9 to 0 10 0 11 to I 0 0 II to 1 2 0 10 to 1 10 0 9 to 1 0 1 0 to 1 4 0 10 to 1 0 1 10 to 3 2 Green Teas. Twankay Hyson skin . Young hyson Hyson Imperial gunpowder Pearl gunpowder . from 0 — 0 _ ! _ 1 _ 1 — I rf. s. 9 to I 9 to I 2 to 1 8 to 2 9 to 2 9 to 2 These names are corruptions of Chinese words; but though they are not the terms employed by the Chinese themselves in their transactions with each other, they are well understood by them in. tlieir dealings with Europeans. Sir George Staunton informs us that the names Bohea, Congou, and Souchong, are not given by the Chinese, who merely describe these teas as inferior, middling, and superior. These varieties necessarily graduate into each other ; and some have supposed that it must be impossible to distin- guish them always by the taste ; but experience has shown, tliat those whose business it is to taste and discriminate teas at the sales acquire the power of distinguishing pretty correctly the various sorts ; sometimes by the smell alone, or when that is not sufficient, by the infusion. It is said that in the catalogues of the Chinese merchants there are at least one hundred and fifty names of teas ; but many of these express the same sort, and others are invented to impose upon foreigners. Some of these tens are of so delicate a kind, such as the true imperial tea, that their flavour would be destroyed by a sea voyage, and hence they arc never brought to us. _ . „ . . The following brief description of the various sorts of tea usually known m Britain may interest the reader. 4009. BnhcM. This is so called from the district (the Wo-ee-hills in Fckien, the great country for black tea), where it is principally grown. It is of two kinds, that of Fokien,