Book VIL 606 ON FOOD. they have a peculiar grateful flavour, something like black currants. They are easily preserved by drying them a little in the sun, and stopping them close in dry bottles. They are so plentiful in Cumberland, that they are sold by the cart-load. The fruit is sometimes fermented into an intoxicating liquor, and is put into whiskey to disguise its peculiar flavour. It is said to possess narcotic powers, and is therefore also used in beer. It makes an excellent jelly, preferable to that from currants for venison. 2808. In the Transactions qf the Horticultural Society, Mr. Milne rccommentls the cultivation qfthis bcrni which is now only collected in its wild state. He observes, that both the British and American species may be grown with much advantage in numberless situations in this island, with little trouble, and on soils where few otiier useful plants will grow to advantage. Cottagers and others living in the neighbourhood of moors and heaths covered with soil suitable to their growth, might cultivate them with considerable profit for the market; and if they could not.be consumed or disposed of in the neighbourhood, they might be sent to a great distance without the hazard of being spoiled. The American would be the easiest managed, and most productive for general use; but, as many prefer the flavour of the English cranberry, there would be also a demand for it, though at a higher price. SuBSECT. 11. — Blackberry, or Brambleberry {Rubus fruticosus. Linn.). 2809. This is a species of raspberry; it is the most common of our native berries, and it is found in almost every hedge, being rather annoying with its long training stems and sharp thorns. In Wales it grows to a large size, and, in a fine summer, is really an excellent fruit. The berries are slightly astringent, and are made into a jam useful in sore throats. They are occasionally used in tarts. The juice, mixed with raisin wine before it is fermented, will give it the colour, and much of the flavour, of claret. SuBSECT. 12. — Dewberry {Rubus casius). 2810. Phillips, in his Pomarium Britannica, p. 71., says, that this is a variety of the blackberry ; the protu- berances are larger and fewer in number than those of the common blackberry. It is generally found trailing on the banks of liedgerows or in hazel copses, seldom growing above a foot high. He observes. " that it is a berry of excellent flavour, and well deserving a pliicc in cultivated grounds, as it must be equally beneficial to society that our native fruits should be improved, as well as that new varieties should be imported from climates that can give but little hope of their thriving without the aid of artiflcial heat." ScBSECT. 13. — Juniper Berry (Juniperus communis, Linn.). 2811. This is the fruit of the common juniper, which grows wild on our hills. They are round, of a blackish purple colour : when chewed they have at first a warm, sweetish, and afterwards a bitter taste. In Sweden they are made into a conserve, and eaten at break- fast. In some places they are roasted, and used as a substitute for coffee. A volatile oil is contained in cells in the shell of the nut, and not in the fleshy part of the fruit, that has a close resemblance to oil of turpentine, and which is used to flavour gin; but the juniper berries employed for this purpose are imported. StiBSECT. 14. — Service Berries. 2812. These are the fruit of the wild service tree (Pyrus tortninalis), very common in the hedges and fields ; but, though at present little known, they were more in use formerly. The country people in some places gather the bunches of berries, and hang them up in the air till they undergo an incipient putrefaction, in which state they possess a peculiar acid, astringent taste, and are considered as having cathartic properties. When mellowed by frost they have been used as food. The service tree is a native of England, but is now seldom seen except planted as urnameutal trees. Sect. VIIL exotic frthts which do not ripen in the open air in england, and ■which are only cultivated in the hothouse. 2813. It does not enter into our plan to describe the vast number of fruits that are found in various parts of the world : the following are occasionally imported in a preserved state, or are sometimes cultivated in this country by the aid of artificial heat. SuBSECT. 1 Pomegranate (JPunica Granatum, lAan.'). 2814. The pomegranate, which derives its name from "pomum granatum," a kernelled apple, possesses, independently of its valuable qualities, great historical interest We find it often mentioned in the Bible, where it is included in the fruits of Palestine with the vine, the fig, the olive, and other " pleasant fruits.'' It likewise grows M-ild in Barbary. Pliny states that the Romans brought it from Carthage in the time of Sylla—hence its name, Punica. It was likewise well known to the ancient Greeks, and held in great esteem by them : the story of Proserpine is well known, who, having been carried off by Pluto, was prevented from returning to the earth in consequence of having tasted of this fruit in the Elysian Fields. They are frequently represented in ancient sculpture. 2815. 7Vit' fruit of the pomegranate tree is about the size and shape of an orange. The rind is coriaceous, of a reddish-yellow colour, having a very styptic taste; but the pulp