127 iiiAP. II. SUBSTANCES EMPLOYED IN ITS PRODUCTION. id straining the wax, as they Tvill be left behind. When wax is bought, it is proper to isak each cake, for it is not unfrequently the case that some impurities are in the centre, IJ outside only being good. ■'574. Besides our large supply at home, a great deal of wax is imported from Russia, the i3therlands, Barbary, the west coast of Africa, Cuba, and North America: and much, lure would be imported but for the heavy duty, which is 1/. 18s. per cwt. I Vegetable wax will be described among the vegetable substances employed for light Sect. III. SPERMACETI. .i575. Spermaceti is an inflamviahle substance, ivhich occurs as a spongy", oily mass in the aad of a species of whale (Physeter macrocephalus or cachalot'). It is contained in a large iiangular cavity ten or twelve feet long, and four or five feet deep, placed above the fore rrt of the skull; and an ordinary sized whale will yield upwards of twelve large barrels, I nearly a ton, of this substance in a crude state. Wliile the animal is living, this substance ffluid; and when the whale is killed, a hole is made in the outer and upper part of the aad, and the liquid is baled out in buckets; it solidifies to the consistence of fat on Moling. The sperm oil is separated from this by dripping, and pressure in bags ; what issses through is the oil, and the residue is the crude spermaceti, which is packed up and nought to England by the South Sea whalers to be refined. The mode of refining it in lanufactories is as follows. The crude substance is put into bags of hair or woollen stuff, :dd subjected to a press till it becomes hard and brittle, and till no more oil can be obtained oom it. It is then broken to pieces, and thrown into a vessel with boiling water, when 1 melts, and the impurities, which rise to the surface or sink to the bottom, are skimmed f F and separated by straining. The spermaceti, after becoming solid on cooling, is again rrown into a boiler with water, to which a weak ley of potash has been added, to free it from ke remainder of the oil. This process is repeated several times if necessary; after which lee spermaceti is poured into coolers, where it concretes into a hard white mass, which, hhen broken,^exh!bits the beautiful flaky crystalline appearance seen in the shops. ; 576. Pure spermaceti has very little taste or smell. It is of an almost silvery white, iable, semitransparent, and unctuous. It is softer and more brilliant than white wax, lad it is distinguished from every other species of concrete oil by its superior transparency, iigh lustre, and crystalline texture. It melts at 112°, and at a higher temperature it r.'aporates with little alteration. By the assistance of a wick, it burns with a clear white lame, superior to that of tallow, and without any disagreeable odour. By long exposure > ■ the air it acquires a yellow tinge, and becomes rancid ; but it may again be purified by tL'hig washed in a warm ley of potash. It is extensively employed, with wax and olive ill, in making ointment for medical purposes. It possesses also the property of softening bee skin ; and hence it is used by ladies for pastes, washes, &c.; but its chief use at present I i in making candles. Some have sold for spermaceti a preparation of oil taken from the I: il of the whale instead of that from the head ; but this kind soon turns yellow : a small uaantity of spermaceti, indeed, is found in all the whale tribe, and is distributed all over Jaeir bodies, as also in their fat. The fat of all fishes contains a small quantity of it. Sect. IV. TAIXOW. 577. Tallow is a variety of animal fat melted down and clarified. There is scarcely any r.aimals but a sort of tallow may be obtained from them. Those which yield the most, rre the bullock and sheep: but tallow may also be prepared from the horse, hog, goat, reer, and bear. It is employed for a variety of purposes, as for making soap, and dressing rather, but chiefly for candles ; and large quantities are annually imported from Russia, rrhe fat of animals is usually collected between the skin and muscles, in the interstices »-etween the muscles, and between the viscera. It is composed of cellular membrane, Biiclosing an oily matter of various degrees of consistence, according to the part. Thus, iiuet, lard, marrow, &c., are varieties of this substance, which is very analogous in its ihemical properties to the vegetable fixed oils ; but the suet, being the firmest kind, is lihosen for making tallow. 578. Tallow-chandlers melt tallow by chopping the fat, as it is taken i'rom oxen and ■iheep, and then boiling it for some time in a large copper, to separate the tallow from the ■ellular membrane ; when the former is chiefly extracted by this means, the remainder is mbjccted to the operation of a strong iron press, and the cake that is left, after the tallow *s expressed from it, is called "greave:" with this dogs are fed; and, it is said, many of lihe ducks and pigs that supply the London markets. 579. The tallow for mould candles should be made of half bullocks' and half mutton