lOSl STARCH. i Chap. V. I of the different kinds of this fluid, as obtained from various sources, as well as the differ- t ence between hard and soft water. To this we must refer our readers. The softest waters . are the fittest for washing, simply because they are the pui-est, containing no salts capable . of decomposing the soap and destroying its action. 6462. When water is hard, it is owing to its containing earthy salts, generally either (carbonate of lime or sulphate of lime ; the acids of which seize the alkali of the soap, 1 which is united to the oil only by a weak affinity. K the cause of hardness be carbonate I of lime dissolved in the water, simple boiling for a considerable time corrects it by t driving off the carbonic acid in the form of gas, when the lime falls to the bottom, Heaving the water soft; which may then be poured off and used for washing; or the ad- dition of quicklime may effect it, as has been stated. But when the hardness proceeds tfrom sulphate of lime, or lime united to the sulphuric acid, which is the most frequent 1 case, boiling has no eifect; because the sulphuric acid cannot be driven off in this manner, lit is then necessary to decompose the sulphate of lime by putting into the water some i common soda, or potash, or pearlash, as may be most convenient. Even woodashes will : answer the purpose if no better material is to be had ; because, as we have shown, they I contain potash. As spring water and well water are very frequently hard, the addition I of soda to such water is a very common and a very useful practice. Even exposing spring water that is hard from containing carbonate of lime only, for ; some time in a cistein, wUl correct it to a considerable degree, because the carbonic acid 1 will fly off in time, leaving the lime to fall down. If the water be impregnated with the minutest portion of iron in any state, this will (communicate a yellowish hue to the linen, which it will be very difiicult to get rid of: ; and such water will therefore be very unfit for washing. 6463. Sea water is not fit in its natural state for washing linen, because the salt in the 1 water decomposes the soap, and prevents its action. To remedy this, add soda to the ; sea water, the effect of which wUl be, first, that the water will become turbid, and a pre- i cipitation of earths will take place. When, by adding sufficient soda, all the white preci- i pitation has subsided, the water will be found soft and fit for washing. The explanation of this effect is as follows:—Sea water contains a certain proportion of hydrochloride of I calcium and hydrochloride of magnesium, as well as hydrochloride of sodium. As hydro- , chloric acid has a stronger affinity for soda than for lime or magnesia, it will unite with ! the soda which has been added and leave the earths, which therefore fall down or are pre- 1 cipitated. The water is now Salter than before : but more soda must be added than is ^ sufficient to form sodium, or saturate the hydrochloric acid ; then the latter is rendered : ineffective, being unable to decompose soap. Sea water, therefore, with this excess of • soda, acts nearly as fresh water. A kind of soap is now made and sold for washing in s sea water. CHAP. V. ON STARCH. 6464. Starch is one of the essential articles in the business of the laundry; and though it I can always be purchased of good quality in Britain, yet, in uniformity with our plan, we I shall describe its manufacture or mode of production, as well as its properties and the ! manner of using it. In treating of the principles of vegetables, Book VII. Chap. VII., we showed that ; starch is ready formed in certain plants, being one of their proximate principles ; and all I that the manufacturer has to do is to separate it from the other constituents. It will be ; proper here to enumerate again the properties of starch, as far as they are concerned with : its use in the laundry. 6465. Starch consists of extremely minute oval-shaped grains, much too small to be ■ distinguished by the unassisted eye, but which may be plainly seen by a good microscope. Wlien pure, the mass is of a brilliant snow-white, and without any taste. It will not dis- : solve in water either cold or below 160° ; but in water between 160° and 180° it forms an imperfect solution, thickening into a gelatinous or jelly-like consistence, in which state it is employed by the laundress. 6466. AUhovijh all vegetables contain more or less of starch, yet some possess a much larger proportion than others ; and are therefore fittest for the production of this sub- stance. In treating of the constituents of vegetables in general, we pointed out those from which it is extracted in the greatest quantity.