330 HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. Sdbsect. 4. — Duties of Cook, Kitchen Maid, and Scullion. 1552. The routine duties of cook, kitchen-maid, and scullion, beiny intermingled, can scarcely admit of separate descriptions. The cook directs the -whole business of the kitchen ; the others assist in its performance ; she is responsible for the mode in -which it is conducted and performed, and must possess, therefore, adequate skill; they, on their part, have only to be active, cleanly, and obedient. 1553. To these domestics, early rising is of the utmost importance, and, as their hours of retiring to rest are less uncertain, and not dependent, as tliose of the servants in other departments, on the movements of the family, there can be neither hardship nor difficulty in their rising betimes, not later than C in the summer .\nd 7 in the winter. If they fail in this they will find, that " An hour lost in the morning may be run after, but never overtaken the rest of the day." The inconvenience of late rising in these three domestics will not only affect their own, but the business also of many of the other servants. 1554. The first care of the cook,in rising, is to set tier dough, if not done overnight, for the breakfast rolls and cakes ; while the scullion cleans grates and fire-irons, lights the kitchen, and oven fires, and fills with water, boiler, kettles, and fountains, sulHcient for the supply of the dressing rooms, as well as for breakfast. 1555. The kitchen-maid, at the same time, is occupied in sweeping and cleaning the kitchen, larder, and other offices belonging to the kitchen ; together with the halls, stone steps at the house entrance, office passages, kitchen stairs, &c. Besides this daily sweeping anddusting, she has to scour and wash all these places twice a week, and to scrub tables, shelves, and cupboards. 1556. The scullion, in the same manner, keeps her scullery clean, and all the metallic utensils used in the kitchen, as well as earthen plates, dishes, and other vessels. 1587. These preliminari/ employments usually occupy the three domestics till their breakfast hour, 8 o'clock. That meal over, their attention must be immediately directed to preparations for the difTerent dinners of the household and family. 15.58. The kitchen-tnaid generaWy dresses nursery and servants' hall dinners; at the same time she has to clean and scrape fish, pluck, draw, and truss poultry, trim joints of meat and cutlets, wash and trim veget- ables, l.iying them on separate colanders to dram (for, if heaped on one another when moist, the strong veget- ables impart their flavour to the more delicate plants): all such offices she undertakes. 1689. The cook has only the charge of dressing and serving the principal meats. While everything is thus prepared for her, she is busy with her pastry (best m.ide early in a summer's day), her ragouts, soups, gravies, farces, &c. ; the stock or consomme, the basis of most made dishes, she keeps always at hand, as well as sweet herbs, pounded spices, eschalots, cloves of garlic, &c.' From this time till the dinner is served the cook must never leave her post, nor allow her assistants to remit tlieir occupations. l5(jQ.,As the time draws nigh when the whole business must be achieved, trie clock must be consulted, and to each dish due time allowed for the fire to complete what has been thus prepared. Now the cook must be collected as well as busy, that there may be no oversight of any kind (see art. " Cooking."). The vegetables and sauces must in their preparation, keep pace with the dishes which they are to accompany, so that the order of the dinner may be carefully observed. 1561. The dinner hour arrived, the cook commences serving such things as may, without injury, be covered over, and placed for a short time on the hot he.irth, or in the hot closet (see " Kitchen Apparatus "). But choice or important dishes she refrains from serving until the order for dinner has been given from the drawing-room. * Then all hands are at work. The cook takes immediate charge of fish, soup, and poultry, "The kitchen maid (in some houses assisted by the under housemaid) dishes vegetables, and pours gravies aiid , sauces into tureens. The scullion waits the bidding of the cook. All are thus busy, and yet without con- fusion. 1.56-2. The serving table (in some kitchens heated with steam) is covered with a clean cloth, and the first course is set out upon it, and carried thence by the footmen, in regular order, to the butler in the dining-room. The cook's const.int aim should be to serve her dinner neatly, and, above every thing, to send it up hot. If cold, her painstaking in all other respects will avail little. secontf course she should time judiciously the dishing: if deferred too long, an awkward lapse in the dining-room will occur; if too soon, some of the light and fancy dishes, such as omelettes and fondus, may be injured. 1563. The serving ended, the cook then sets her assistants again to the business of cleamng: the utensils are scoured ; the scullery, larder, &c. cleared of everything that might betray negligence, or affect the atmosphere with unwholesome odours. The cook employs herself in the larder, putting away, on clean dishes, any remains of the dinner, and which are to be disposed of according to the custom of the family in regard to their table. In some families it is usual to send to table the following day some of these remains properly made up; in other places they are consumed at the second table j and in a very few houses, of the highest rank and equal affluence, these remnants are disposed of to the poor in the vicinity, to whom allowances are made according to the numbers of their respective families. Whichever of these customs is estabhshed in the family the coofc must, of course, conform to it. ' 1564. The contents of the larder, -which is under the charge of the cook, require her" daily attention; and, during -warm and damp -weather, she should investigate their state in the evening as -well as in the morning. Undressed butchers' meat, poultry, and game, if moist on the surface, should be -wiped dry ; if fly-blo-wn, the part should be cut away ; and if still greater change be perceptible, if a flaccid state of the flesh, as -well as moisture on the surface, is perceived, it may be prudent to resort to more decisive measures to pre- serve the food from becoming utterly unfit for the table; and a single night may do this, if precautionary measures are neglected. (See " Preservation of Food.") 151*. Th- cook, even if she have a kitchen-maid under her, must never neglect to see that the larder Is kepi clcatiTancl that no unwholesome smells arise from droppings of meat, or gravies, milk, &c. The leaves of vege- tables left to ferment must also produce exhalations detrimental, especially in hot we.ither, to all moist food. Soups, gravies, and tnilk, should each be put daily into cle.in vessels: unless this be done, they »ill soon begin to change. If soup or gravies are not immediately wanted for use, they should be boiled up nnd then strained into coid vessels, and put into the coolest place to be found till they are wanted. AH vegetable substances should be strained from them. 1506. In second-rate establishments the housekeeper usually superintends the higher branches of cooking, and the cook undertakes the minor duties of the kitchen-maid, cither with or -without the assistance of a scullion, 1567. The cook i tigaees in small establish7ncnts, varying from three to five in number, to perform thcwhole of the work in the kilchcn, and in some places portions of house work ; she has also to cle.in the h.ill, pnssages. stone entrance, steps, and kitchen stairs, nnd, occasionally, the dining-room, or the whole of the ground floor. It is apparent that, with this variety of occupation, she must require method as well as activity.