BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 626 liable to occasional failures; and, indeed, by the records of Ely, it appears that this was foi •merly the ease. With what advantage the manufacture of domestic wine from grapes could be carried on to a considerable extent in this kingdom is a subject that does not belong to our objects to inquire into ; and indeed no accurate judgment could be formed without some direct experiments ; but that this is perfectly practicable on a small scale for domestic use, and with manifest advantage with a view to economy, there is abundance of proof. Enough is already known to demonstrate the complete practicability of producing w ine for the table equal to ordinary Champagne, and some of the Moselle and Rhenish wines of the second and third classes, at less than a half, or perhaps one-third of the price now paid for them, with the advantage of being entirely free from adulteration ; whereas a great part of the cheap wines called foreign are compositions of the vilest description. 3520. But the practice ofnmking wine from grapes in England is far from being extinct. The cottagers in Sussex are in the habit of making wine, almost annually, from the produce of vines trained on the walls of their houses. Many individuals through various parts of the southern counties, and even as far north as Derbyshire, practise the same with success. 3521. Tlie sorts of grapes best adapted for culture on open walls are, according to Mr. Hoare, the black Hamburgh, the black Prince, the black Muscadine, Miller's Bur- gundy, the Esperione, the Claret grape, the black Frontignan, the grizzly Frontignan, the white Frontignan, the white Muscadine, the Malmsey Muscadine, and the white sweet- water. It would not be prudent to try any foreign kinds that have not been acclimated. 3522. The vine is easily cultivated; and no fruit tree grown in this country can be depended upon with more certainty for a full crop, or that will yield a more ample return than a vine judiciously trained on an open wall; but Mr. Hoare observes that an erroneous idea prevails, that a single vine requires for its training a large portion of walling; whereas this opinion has arisen from the general defective method of pruning and managing that plant, whereby the wood is suifered, and, indeed, encouraged, to extend itself beyond the capability of its fruit-bearing powers. The pruning knife ought to be more used, whereas vines are usually allowed to load themselves with more fruit than they can mature ; and when that is the case their strength becomes exhausted, and the fruit is of little value. One of the principal causes of failure in this country is the neglect of a proper soil: that generally employed has too great depth of mould, in which the roots of the vine are suffered to run, enticing them to raise too much moisture, by which the vegetation is carried on too late in the autumn, so as to delay the ripening process until the sun has lost too much of its power. The soil should be loamy, and not above eighteen inches deep. The subsoil should be of dry materials, containing stones, brick-bats, lumps of old mortar, broken pottery, oyster shells, and similar things. Soils that retain wet are inju- rious. All animal matters may serve for m;\nure, but these are best formed into composts by mixing them with road sweepings, sand, gravel, and broken bones. Though the vines of Champagne grow upon chalky soils, yet these are not so good as those just mentioned for wines that are to be kept long. Walls are best of brick : dark flint walls retain more heat, but are more uneven. The best aspects are those that are southerly; when the aspect partakes of the north, it is unfit. Shelter is essential as well as aspect, wind being very pernicious. 3523. In planting a vineyard in England, care should be taken to select the kind of soil most suitable to the vine, as well as such an exposure as consists of southern slopes ; and much would depend upon obtaining the proper varieties of vines. The sorts planted at Painshill, where so successful an experiment was made, as well as those most commonly used on the Continent, are the Burgundy, or large black cluster, and the miller's grape, or small black cluster ; but the grapes which produce the sweet wines, as the Constantia malmsey and Madeira, are varieties of the Chasselas or Muscadine, which is one of the oldest and most common of our grapes. Professor Martyn recommends that in an English vineyard the vines should be trained very near the ground, he having found that by this method of training, the grapes were much increased in size, and also ripened earlier. This method is successfully pursued in the north of France. But in this country it is perhaps in peculiarly favourable situations only that vineyards will succeed. Practical Directions for making Wine from British Grapes. 3524. We owe to the late Dr. Maccidlocli the first and almoat the only attempt to rescue this branch of domestic economy from the degraded state into which it had fallen. From his chemical and other knowledge he was eminently qualified to do it justice, and m his luminous essay he has pointed out the scientific principles upon Avhich the whole depends, presenting the philosophy of the subject. He has distinctly expressed his opniion that " wines not to be distinguished from some of those of foreign growth can, m this country, be made from grapes, and at a moderate expense ; and that the success of this process is