[I FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 9G4 We have already stated that all our best superfine cloths are now made of Saxon or Spanish wool; an inferior superfine cloth is manufactured from English wools; as also the seconds, chiefly used for liveries, together with coarser sorts varying in quality and price. The goodness of cloth consists mainly in the quality of the wool, the durability of the dyeing, and the degree of perfection in which the various processes in its manufacture have been performed. 5662. To judge of the qualiUj of broad cloth, particular attention must be paid to the fineness of the fibre, and the closeness of the texture. If, on passing the hand lightly in a direction contrai-y to the nap, there be a general silkiness of feel, uninterrupted by harsh roughness, there are grounds for concluding that the cloth is made of fine wool. The texture should not only be composed of fine threads, but it should have an even con- sistency, produced by the operation of felting, by which the fibres of the wool are so perfectly incorporated, that they conceal the tissue of the threads, and give the entire web the appearance of felt; or, to use a familiar comparison, a piece of cloth made of fine wool, and well wrought and finished, should exhibit no more indications of the loom, than a sheet of wove paper does of the apparatus employed in its fabrication. Dealers judge of its quality by an expedient which is more easily understood by observation than description. A portion of the cloth is taken up loosely with both hands; a fold of it being then pressed strongly between the thumb and forefinger of one hand, a sudden pull is given with the other, and according to the peculiar sharpness and vibrating clearness of the sound produced by the slipping or escape of the fold, the goodness of the cloth is judged. Another way is the comparison of various pieces of different fabrics and of different prices ; the soft and even consistency, together with the flexibility of fine broad cloth, will be rendered more evident, on being contrasted with that of an inferior cloth. The gloss on cloth is better not to be too satiny, as this causes it to spot with rain. 5663. Kerseymere, or cassimere, is a twilled cloth that has a greater degree of pliability than plain cloth, and used for garments that are required to be thin and very pliable. From its peculiar texture, one-third of the warp is always above and two-thirds below each shoot of weft. It is either single-milled, or double-milled, the la-st being the stoutest. It is usually woven of the width of thirty-four or thirty-six inches, and reduced by milling to twenty-seven inches. Kerseymeres and other lighter kinds of cloth are to be judged oi also by the feel; and as their texture is sometimes not wholly concealed, their quality may be more easily ascertained by inspection. From their twilled structure, they are rendered more durable than plain cloth would be, of equal lightness. Cassimerette is a variety of the above. 5664. Pelisse cloths are twilled and made soft, about seven-quarters wide. 5665. Prize, or napped coating, is a kind of woollen cloth or baize, of which one side is covered with little tufts or burrs, called the frizing, which is performed by a machine. 5666. Bearskin and dreadnought are thick cloths of a long pile and dyed, intended for very strong warm dress. 5667. Bath coating and duffil are light cloths with along nap like a double raised baize, used as winter's dress, for great coats, &c. It is of various colours; also white for women's petticoats. Widths, \, \, |. 5668. Tweed is a woollen fabric, of a light structure, lately much employed for summer coating, and for surtouts. 5669. Swanskin is a very thick closely woven fabric, much used for clothes by sea- faring men and labourers ; it is employed also as ironing cloths by laundresses for their tables. 5670. Hodden grey is a cloth peculiar to Scotland, manufactured from the nattiral fleece; throughout the farming districts, the housewives contrive to have one black lamb retained among the flock, as the wool takes on the dye more kindly, and is indeed often spun into thread for the stockings of the family, without receiving any additional tinge. 5671. Plush is a kind of stuff having a sort of velvet nap on one side, composed regu- larly of a woof of a single woollen thread and a double warp ; the one of wool, of two threads twisted, and the other goat's or camel's hair. Some plushes in imitation of these are made of other materials. Plush is much used in liveries. 5672. Flannel is a woollen stuff, loosely woven, much used as warm clothing. Its warmth is increased by the laxity of its structure ; for as the fibres of the wool touch each other slightly, leaving numerous interstices which are filled with air, heat cannot readily pass through it, as has been shown by Count Rumford. See " Remarks on Clothing in general." Welsh flannel has the reputation of being the best; but much of what is sold for Welsh flannel is made in various parts of England ; a great deal of flannel is made in Lancashire. Patent flannel is a very fine kind, said not to shrink m washmg, an inconvenience which common flannel is liable to. Gauze flannel is a flannel of a very loose porous texture, not so warm as ordinary flannel, and therefore useful for some persons. Domett is a kind of flannel, the warp of which is made of cotton and the woof