720 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. unprofitable article of commerce. It is evident that the ancient notions of it were extremely erroneous, since solid sugar of every kind is the produce of manufacture only, and is never found adhering to the cane like gum; the juice must always be forcibly expressed, and afterwards crystallised. Pliny speaks of a substance called saccharon, obtained from certain reeds in India : he observes that it was of a white colour, crackled' like salt between the teeth, was sweet like honey, and was in lumps not exceeding the size of a hazel nut—a description which corresponds with that of the white sugar-candy made at present in Cochin China. Our term sugar is probably derived from the Bengalee sliukkur, the name by which it is still known in India. 4115. It was not until a considerable time afterwards that the plant which produced it was brought from the eastern parts of Asia; and it does not appear to be certain at what particular period, nor by whom, .this acquisition was first made. Early in the tenth century it was cultivated in the vicinity of Ormus, on the Persian Gulph, whence, no doubt, it was carried to Mesopotomia, a country celebrated for its sugar in the time of the Crusades: hence it spread into Syria, New Tyre being famous for excellent sugar m the twelfth century. By the Saracens it was introduced into Egypt, Rhodes, Cyprus, Sicily, and Spain. 4116. From a passage in an Arabian author, who wrote in 1073 (quoted by Blanquiere, Madrid, 1801), giving directions for the cultivation of the sugar-cane, and for boiling the juice, nearly in the same manner as at present, it would appear that sugar was made in Spain at least 700 years ago, the manufacture having been probably introduced by the Moors, It is a circumstance not generally known, that the sugar-cane is grown at this day in Andalusia, in the south of Spain, or at least was only a few years ago, over a narrow tract between a chain of rugged mountains and the Mediterranean, about a hundred and thirty miles in length, with a medium breadth of four or five miles, the climate being sufficiently warm, with the exception of slight nocturnal frosts in some winters. The sugar is manufactured there nearly in the same manner as in the West Indies. This fact has been overlooked by almost all travellers, but has been stated in a late paper in the " Edinburgh Philosophical Journal" by Dr. Traill, who visited the country. The Portuguese planted the sugar-cane in their newly-discovered islands of Madeira and the Canaries, whence it was afterwards transferred to their colonies on the coast of Africa and in Brazil. 4117. It has been supposed that the sugar-cane was indigenous in America; this, how- ever, is improbable, since it is not found growing wild in that part of the world. But the climate of the new world being found highly favourable to the growth of this plant, the Portuguese, who devoted themselves with much assiduity to its cultivation, and to the ex- traction of its sugar, for some time possessed almost the entire supply of Europe with this commodity. From 1466 to 1580, sugar was rare in England, being procured from the Portuguese; Venetians, and Genoese, and was used only in the houses of the wealthy, or in medicine. With regard to its introduction into the West Indies, it appears that it was planted there some time before it was cultivated on a large scale for the manufacture of sugar. At first no other use was made of it than as an esculent garden vegetable, the stem being eaten, or rather sucked or chewed, in a raw state, after being simply peeled, as is still the practice in China and in some of the East Indian islands. This will account for its having been noticed by travellers in the West Indies previously to the date of the establishment of the first sugar plantation. In 1643, the English began the manufacture in St. Christopher's and Barbadoes, and in Jamaica in 1656 ; the plant having flourished there in great luxuriance, it has ever since been extensively cultivated, and the produce distributed thence over the globe. 4118. Tlie art of refining sugar, or making what is called loa f sugar, was a discovery of some Venetians in the early part of the sixteenth century, and does not appear to have been known to the Chinese; but it was not until cofi"ee and tea were introduced into England, that sugar came into general demand here. Sugar-candy is of very early date : according to Dr. Moseley, there is an account of a shipment made at Venice for England, in 1319, of 100,000 lbs. of sugar, and 10,000 lbs. of sugar-candy. Refined sugar is mentioned in a list of provisions in the reign of Henry VIII. Numerous improve- ments up to the present time have been made in the art of manufacturing sugar in a pure state.