809 Chap. II. RATIONALE OF THE PROCESSES IN COOKERY. season more highly. A fillet or breast of veal, If not very highly fed, will bake as well as it will roast. The oven is equally suitable for a leg of pork, but a loin requires to bo sweated in roasting, it is too greasy when baked. A pig, if not very old, and if the baker is careful to .inoint the cr.ickling as in roasting, bakes very well. His ears jind tail must be put in buttered papers. If you would hope even to see them returned from the oven. Geese and ducks m.ny be baked if not old and ranii ; in which case, they must be sweated in roasting before the fire, to overcome the fliivour. A le^ of mutton with potatoes parboiled and peeled, and an onion shred, makes, when baked, an excellent plain family dish, the mucil.ige of the pot>itoes combines so kindly with the fat of the meat. The noble sirloin disdains to be cribbed in the oven ; but a ruinp qf Ai-c/slightly salted for a few days, washed, highly seasoned, .ind baked with plenty of butter in a deep covered vessel, is esteemed a delicacy. A hare or rabbit may be baked, allowing pieces of butter in the dish, and putting a large piece or a rich stuffing Into the Inside of the animal. Herrings, sprats, salmon, haddocks, and eels m,iy all be highly seasoned and baked with advantage. Bakers' ovens have one great drawback ; they are ac- cused of being re.-U sponges for gravy, so that they often indemnify the baker's apprentices for the trouble saved to the cook. Besides, meat Is seldom got home In season from these wholesale receptacles for all man- ner of joints. Hams are often soaked and baked, when they are used in great quantity, and when the object is to cut thin. Fish, if baked, must h,ive plenty of butter." It is to be observed, that most of the last-men- tioned evils may be avoided by having ovens at home. 4643. In baking pies in particular, the state of the oven should be attended to. Almost every oven has a temperament of its own. Puff paste requires rather a smart oven to make it rise light. Raised paste must have a quick oven. Practice .md observation are very necessary In the m.anagement of an oven. 4644. Amon^ the singular methods of baking, we m.ay mention that w hich was originally practised by the n.itives of Otaneite when they were first discovered by Captain Wallls. I'hey dug a pit in the ground about a foot deep, and a yard across ; then having p.aved the bottom neatly with clean pebble stones, they made a fire In It with dried leaves and the husks of the cocoa nut. When the stones were sufficiently heated, they took out the emliers and raked out the ashes, and bhen covered the stones with a layer of green cocoa-nut leaves. The animal to be roasted, perhaps a small hog or a dog, was carefully wrapped up in the leaves of the plantain, and pl.iced In the pit, where It w.is covered over first by the hot embers, and then with bread- fruit and yams wrapped up in the same kind of leaves. Over the whole was spread the remaining embers, mixed with hot stones and cocoa tree leaves, and lastly, iill was closed up with earth to keep the heat in. After the meat had remained in for a time proportioned to its quantity, it was taken out well dressed, tender, and full of gravy. Captain Wallls thought it was better dressed in this way than In any other. Cap- tain King informs us, that the same metliod is still practised by the inhabitants of Chiloe, in cooking the excellent shell-fish that abounds in that island. Boiling. 4645. Boiling consists in keeping the food for a sufficient time in water heated to the boiling point ; if the water, does not quite boil it is called simmering. This mode of cooking is so common a process, and so familiar to every one, that (as Count Rumford observes in his Essays) " few probably take the trouble to inquire how, or in what man- ner, the effect is produced. The cook knows from experience that if his meat remains immersed in boiling water a sufficient time, it will be done, as it is called in the language of the kitchen ; but if he be asked, what is done to it, ten to one but he will be embar- rassed to find a satisfactory answer." In boiling the flesh of animals, considerable chemical changes are effected. The gelatine, which is always more or less solid in the raw meat, is dissolved by the water, while at the same time the albumen, a principle analogous to white of egg, and which is soft in the raw state, is consolidated. When the boiling has been effected by water quite at the boiling point, and the boiling carried on very fast, this is apt to wrap up the fleshy fibre, cause the albumen on the outside to set solid, and to prevent the access of the heat to the interior: hence boiling fast hardens the meat; and when cooked in this way, it •will be too much done on the outside, while the interior will not be done enough. The albimien begins to coagulate at 164°, and at 212° becomes firm. In large concerns, if various-sized joints are boiled together, the small ones will be done before the large ; for the time of boiling a joint must bo proportioned in some degree to its size. A degree of heat somewhat under 212° or simmering, is most proper for making meat tender. Meat, to be well boiled, should be put into cold water, that the heat may penetrate gradually to the centre ; but there are a few exceptions to this rule ; fowls and white meat generally require the water to be a little warm. Soon after the boiling commences, a scum arises, which consists of a portion of the albumen with some fat from the outside ; this is to be carefully skimmed off. 464G. In Book II. Chapter I., on "Heat," we gave an explanation of what constitutes boil- ing properly; namely, the conversion of water into steam by its being heated to 212°; and we showed that water cannot be heated higher in open vessels ; all fuel employed to raise the heat above that point, is wasted in merely raising steam. It is very important that all cooks should be thoroughly acquainted with this fact ; some imagine that by using much fire, and making the water bubble much, it is made hotter in proportion to the noise and motion it makes. Using much fire will cause the water to evaporate, or boil away faster, but it will be no hotter; and as the cooking of the meat properly depends upon the temperature and not the quantity of the water, the moat will not be done any sooner by boiling fast; on the contrary, in many cases, it will be hardened, as was explained above, and will be longer in doing. By too rapid boiling, not only is the meat rendered harder, hut much of its savoury juices are thus evaporated and lost. The great art in boiling, therefore, for economy and good cooking, is to keep the Mater jn.it nnder the boiling point; and after it once boil.s, it is amazing how little fuel will elfcct this: all beyond that is waste. 4647. Large joints of meat, as rounds of beef, hams, legs of mutton, &c., are best boiled