12-14 Book XXVL PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. on either side of the straightened leg; and by this means the limb is kept quiet, and in a convenient position till such time as the surgeon can arrive and "se<" the limb by apply- ing splints, which are merely mechanical contrivances, of a less rude kind than the sand pillows described, but serving the same purpose, viz. to keep the ends of the bones together without permitting movement. Again, when the collar bone is broken, and which may be suspected -when the patient cannot raise the hand to the head, it is obviously very important to take oflF the weight of the arm by means of a sling, and this often gives much relief. A sling should also be used, if a fracture of the upper arm is suspected. If a fracture of the lower arm is sus- pected, the best wa/ is to lie down in bed, and to place the fore-arm on the large sand- bag already mentioned, with the arm bent, and the thumb kept up, or indeed in any easy position. With regard to all fractures, it is ditncult to go wrong if it be remembered that the principle is to put the limb in the position it would be in were it not broken, and to prevent one end of the broken bone from rubbing upon the other. If the surgeon cannot at once attend, it is often very useful to apply cold water or cold lotions continu- ally to the part, by means of linen rags, to keep down inflammation, in addition to employing the means just mentioned. Sect. II. DISLOCATIONS. 7289. When a limb is out of its socket, it is advisable to replace it as soon as possible, and therefore medical aid should be immediately sought for ; beyond this simple remark we shall say nothing, because without much description it would be impossible to tell when a dislocation had occurred ; and even then, such imperfect knowledge would be dangerous, as a dislocation might be mistaken for, or complicated with, a fracture, and the remedies necessary for the former would do incalculable mischief to the latter. Sect. III. CONTUSIOKS, OR SEVERE BRUISES. 7290. In all contusions, the dark appearance, and the successive changes of colour which occur in this, are owing to blood poured out from ruptured vessels. In the treat- ment of contusions, the first thing is to keep down inflammation by means of leeches, cold evaporating lotions (such as one part of spirit of wine and six parts of spirit of Miude- rerus) ; and to mitigate pain by laudanum fomentations, in the intervals of the applications of the lotions. When the colour begins to change, the absorption of the blood may be accelerated by rubbing the part briskly with camphor liniment, or any common stimulating application. Sect. IV SFRAI.VS. 7291. In the treatment of sprains, the most agreeable remedy is rest, with constant application of warm flannels dipped in laudanum, or warm poppy fomentations; after- wards the part may be bandaged with a broad linen roller. Sect. V. WOUNDS. 7292. When a severe incised wound (;'. c. a cut with a sharp instrument) has been inflicted, and medical attendance cannot immediately be obtained, the attention must first be directed to the bleeding ; supposing the wound to be on the arm or leg, if there be a mere oozing, a simple trickling of the blood down the limb, then it will probably soon stop of itself; linen dipped in very cold water may be applied, and it is of great inii)ort- ance to elevate the limb, so that gravity may not assist the flow of blood ; thus if the wound be on the leg, the person should lie on the bed, and the leg be raised high on pillows ; if the arm be the part injured, it should be held above the head ; but supposing the flow of blood to be more violent, supposing it to gu.'sh out in a largo stream as it would from a large out vessel, it is necessary to stop such a jet, else so much blood may be lost as to induce alarming fainting ; the best plan is to put the finger or fingers boldly into the cut, and press upon the part from which the blood seems to come, -without any regard to the pain it may give the ))atient; the finger must not be removed till the surgeon arrive and tie the wounded vessel with a ligature. When the bleeding has stopped, or nearly so, the next object is to bring the sides of the cut into contact, so that they may unite; this is done by means of adhesive plaster, long strips of which are applied, so as not merely to cover" the wound, but to draw its sides together; a very little reflection will easily show any one how a particular cut is to be dresscii, as the covering it with plaster is tochnically termed. If the wound be not merely a simple cut, but compli".-Ued