Chap. IV. 1163 MAKING BUTTER. 6S98. TF7(en butler is made from whole milk, the process, as followed at Glasgow and described by Mr. Aiton, is as follows. The milk, as drawn from the cow, is placed in the coolers until the cream has risen, and it is emptied, before it has acquired any acidity, into a well-scalded vat of size sufficient to contain the whole of the milking, or, perhaps, of two milkings. The whole must now sour before it is churned ; in souring it becomes thick, or, as it is called, lappered, which will require a few days. Cai-e must be taken not to break the curd or lapper of the soured milk before it is put into the churn. 6899. Of churns there are several kinds. The plunge chum, a, fig. 901., is that which is most commonly in use, and is very ancient. The cream or milk being put in, and the top put on, the churning is performed by means of a long handle passing through a hole in the top, and furnished at the lower end with a perforated circle of wood, which agitates the milk by being moved up and down by the dairy-maid. This method is the most effective for the purpose, but is very laborious in its operation. Mere agitation of milk in a close vessel, a large glass bottle for instance, continued for a sufficient time, will pro- duce butter, but not of the best quality if the agitation be not given with a degree of regularity. It requires some skill to churn properly with the common plunge-churn : a few irregular strokes have been known to injure the butter. When once begun the churning must proceed regularly. The best time for churning in the summer is early in the morning before the sun gets much power. To obviate the difficulty and fatigue of working this chum another mode is sometimes employed, as shown in b,fig. 901.; in this the plunge staff is moved up and down by a lever worked by hand, and, by means of a crank, motion is given to a fly-wheel. In very large dairies this method is extended by causing the levers to be worked by a horse. In the Lancashire churn, c, fig. 902., the barrel is upright, and the axis, with its beaters within, is turned by a cord passing round, the two ends of which are fixed to a pair of levers or treddles worked by the feet of a person standing upon them, the motion being given by alternately pressing first one and then the other. 6900. The common barrel-churn, (I, fig. 902., is turned round by an axis and winch, to which is attached a fly-wheel, the barrel lying horizontally ; on the inside are perforated beaters, and there is a square aperture on the side for having access to put in the milk and take out the butter ; this is securely closed by an iron fastening. One advantage of the barrel-churn is that it requires no skill to work it. e,fig. 902., is a construction of the barrel-churn by which it can be worked by the action of a lever instead of a winch, a crank connected with the lever giving the rotatory motion. Several other contrivances for churning have been invented, but the above may