cChap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. 829 •shown, the iron is not at all prejudicial to health, should the tin wear o£F. The differ- cence between the two appears chiefly to be matter of calculation as to expense ; for the ocopper will not only last longer, but will sell for something after it is worn out, which the •iron will not. It is said also that iron saucepans require tinning oftener than copper. Cast-iron saucepans, fig. 667., though heavier than tin, are now made so light, that, when small, they are nearly as manageable, and with care will last a life-time. These are coming very gene- rally into use ; they are usually tinned inside, but if not, or should the tinning wear off, it is of little consequence, as they are perfectly wholesome without it, and are very little liable to rust. The handles are made of a piece of wrought-iron rolled up hollow, and riveted on ; as also the handle of the lid. They are often fitted up with a ssteamer on the top. The outside is japanned black. It is to be remembered, that though i!they are very strong if carefully handled, yet they are brittle, and will crack if cold water hbe thrown upon them when they are hot. Count Rumford suggested the expediency of lining small copper saucepans throughout ivwith a thin sheet of another metal, and observes that the cost wovdd not be great, even if ilthat lining was made of silver, which would form a cheap and elegant utensil. 4710. Lining the inside of saucepans with silver is now effected at a cheap rate by the (electrotype process. This will have one advantage, that the silver will not melt like the !tin, and consequently the accident to the saucepan called " burning" will be avoided ; but idt has been shown that tin is sufficiently wholesome ; and it is evident that silvering being ^Tery expensive is not likely to be used generally. Attempts had been made in Germany about forty years ago to improve cooking vessels iimade of cast-iron, by covering the inside with a white enamel or glaze, but this was liable ' to the objection that the glaze was apt to crack and fly off from the unequal expansion of it and the iron. This practice has lately been imitated in this country ; and we believe nwith better success. Saucepans and frying-pans with the inside enamelled appear now I commonly in the shops ; but before recommending them, we must wait for the experience I of cooks ; and we do not know whether lead is employed in the glaze. 4711. In ancient times, the arts of rolling out copper into sheets, and that of tinning as [practised at present, were not known; and as copper cannot be cast, tin or zinc were wadded to it to render it fusible, which constitutes bell metal and brass. Saucepans were tlthen made of the latter alloy, which is less oxydable than copper alone ; vessels of brass i formed the great ornaments of old kitchens, and from their rich colour were favourite I objects in the pictures of the Dutch painters. Brass is at present little used in our kkitchens, except for skillets, small saucepans used for boiling mUk and starch, being, it is ssaid, less apt to bum to than copper. 4712. Strong iron boilers called digesters are often used in making soups. They have aa lid that screws down tight, so as to confine all the steam ; and by this means the "water may be heated several degrees above the boiling point. These boilers were first ninvented by Papin : if they are sufficiently strong, the water may be heated to a very high idegree, but as there is considerable danger of their bursting with an explosion, if the force of the steam should at last exceed the strength of the vessel, a safety valve is now placed i:in the lid, by which accidents of this kind are avoided; likewise the heat of the steam ican be regulated by putting more or less on the valve. By means of these, not only can ;imeat be entirely dissolved, but even bones, if ground to powder, may have the whole of the -gelatine extracted, leaving the earthy part. However, if they are unskilfully managed, ■ the earthy salts of the bones are apt to get mixed with the liquor, and make it both liisagreeable and unwholesome. They are now seldom used for this purpose, but may be advantageously employed in making economical soups. 4713. Every person conversant with the most ordinary culinary operations has noticed how often liquids, especially milk, is spoiled by what is called burning to. To prevent this evil, Count Rumford recommended double bottoms to all boilers and saucepans used in cooking. The heat, lie observes, is so much obstructed in its passage through a thin sheet of air, which, notwithstanding all the care that may be taken to bring the two bottoms into contact, will still remain between them, that the upper bottom has not time to give its heat las it receives it to the fluid in the boiler, and consequently it never acquires a degree of iiheat sufficient for burning any thing that may be upon it. 4714. The effect of burning to is effectually prevented by the apparatus called by the French ■•' Ba/n il/an'e," which will be shown among the vessels for stewing. We must observe 'that this " burning to" is not the same accident as that of burning, as it is called, of the ■saucepans mentioned above. The first is the burning of the food, the latter the injury ito tiie saucepan itself. 4715. Preserving pans are for boiling sugar and syrups ; they are usually of copper, ''fig. 6G8., and require a well-regulated heat, Ibr which the charcoal stoves and hot plates