FISH. iChap. VI. 407 •class. Less time than that in boiling water will not be sufficient to solidify the white ; and more will make the yoke hard and less digestible ; it is very difficult to guess accu- ■rately as to the time. Great care should be employed in putting them into the water, to ■ prevent cracking the shell, which inevitably causes a portion of the white to exude, and lets water into the egg. They are often beaten up raw in nutritive beverages. Egn-s are employed in a very great many articles of cookery, entrees, entremets, and -sucr?s ; and they form an essential ingredient in pastry, creams, flip, &c. It is particu- iilarly necessary that they should be quite fresh, as nothing is worse than stale eggs. 2112. The metropolis is supplied with eggs from all paits of the kingdom, and they are llikewise largely imported from various places on the Continent, as France, Holland, Bel- igium, Guernsey, and Jersey. It appears from official statements mentioned in M'Cul- i^loch's' " Commercial Dictionary," that the number imported from France alone amounts t to about sixty millions a-year; and supposing them, on an average, to cost fourpence per Jdozen, it follows that we pay our continental neighbours above 83,000/. a-year for eggs. 2113. For the meUiod of preserving eggs, see Chap. III. Book X., " On the Preservation I of Food." CHAP. VI. FISH. Sect. 1. genera!. obsekvations on fish. 2114. In the ocean there appears to be an inexhaustible store of food in the finny tribes of •lanimals. Although in London fish is highly esteemed and considered rather as a luxury, )yet in all countries where it is plentiful and cheap, it is reckoned somewhat inferior in its rnutritive powers to what is called butchers'meat. This is so well known that the jockeys iwho ride at Newmarket, and who wish to weigh as little as possible, are never allowed to teat meat if fish can be obtained. The ancient Greeks seem to have looked upon fish in I the same light, for we find in the Odyssey, Menelaus complaining that they had been tobliged to live upon fish. Nevertheless, as the inhabitants of the sea coast in many parts I of the world subsist almost entirely upon this kind of food, and enjoy perfect health, it lis evidently, in general, sufficiently substantial. In Siberia, parts of Norway and Iceland, cdried fish composes the principal part of the food of the inhabitants ; and in Greenland jand the Polar seas, the Esquimaux have no other. Being, however, less nutritive than 1 meat, a greater quantity is necessary for sustenance. But though not so strengthening, it lhas some qualities that render it particularly valuable. Being less stimulating than (butchers' meat, it occasions less febrile excitement, and being extremely tender and ssoluble, it is more easy of digestion; and though not sufficient in all cases to restore power tto habits debilitated by disease, it is well suited for invalids, for inhabitants of towns, and t for sedentary or studious persons. 2115. Fish, however, like other animals, differ in some degree in their nutritive and other I properties; much, likewise, depends upon the modes in which they are prepared before t they are employed as food. Like every other kind of aliment, it is preferable in its fresh 'State, but vast quantities are also salted, pickled, or dried, by which operations it is con- ssiderably altered in its properties. 2116. Fishes may be separated into three great divisions relatively to their habits, and •ithe waters where they live. 1. Those which live entirely in the sea, hence called salt- i water fish, as the cod and herring. 2. Those which live always in fresh tvater, as char, ttrout, &c. 3. Those which migrate from the sea to the fresh water, living alternately in eeach, as the salmon and sturgeon. Their natural history is a subject of great interest, Ibut we can only touch upon such parts of it as bear upon their fitness for food; at the same ttime remarking that, as the article fish forms no inconsiderable figure on the table, the istudy of its good and bad qualities becomes a subject very deserving attention. 2117. Fishes present considerable variety in the structure and firmness of their muscles. '.The muscles of some fish resemble flesh, as that of the whale, shark, and sturgeon : of cothers it is white, and disposed in flakes, as in the cod and the haddock ; and in others, •again, it is fibrous, as in flat fish and eels. In general the muscular part is less firm than tthat of land animals ; in some it is comparatively dry ; in some soft and gelatinous ; and in cothers fat and oily. The fat or oil is sometimes disposed between the layers of the flesh, aas in salmon, or it is dispersed through the flesh, as in eels, herrings, sprats, &c. In the ccod a curdy matter, resembling coagulated albumen, appears between the flakes of the fflesh when fish perfectly fresh is cooked; this, disappearing entirely when the fish is •stale, furnishes a good test of its condition : the fat or oil of the cod resides only in the D d 4