Book XXII. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 1094 Fig. 833. soaped, or dipped into a soapy liquor, or an alkaline ley, the night before washing. Be- fore the operation commences, as much water, nearly boil- ing, is put into the cistern as will rise to the height of four or five inches within the cylinder. Tlie clothes are then introduced into the cylinder, and the latter is turned round by the winch. It is necessary to regulate the velocity of the motion very exactly ; for, if this be too quick, the clothes will apply themselves close to the sides of the cy- linder from the centrifugal force, and if the motion is too slow, they slide down the sides, in either of which cases little effect is produced. The velocity should be such that the linen may be heard to fall from one side to the other every time it is raised out of the water. This discharges most of the water from it, and it becomes filled with a fresh portion every time it dips into the water below. The quantity of soap employed should be such that a strong lather is produced ; and if enough has not been rubbed on the linen, some more must be added by cutting thin slices, or some soapy mixture may be used. The process of washing one change of linen may require half an hour; and to keep the water hot, a pipe may convey steam into the cistern. A cover, d, hung on hinges, is made to shut down over the cylinder when it is revolving. The edge of the cover fits into a groove which goes round the top of the boiler, and which being filled with water prevents the escape of the steam. When this operation is com- pleted, a little hand washing may be found necessary; and finally the clothes must be rinsed and boiled as usual Previously to rinsing, when the clothes are taken out of the machine, they may be laid upon a tray with holes placed over some vessel, which shall receive the soapy water that drains from them, and which may be used again in the machine until it is too foul. It may be observed, that, in cases where a strong alkaline ley is required, pearlash may be used as more economical than soda, although the latter answers very well. An alkaline ley may be prepared from common potash thus : dissolve it in its own weight of water, stir it frequently, and then let it stand for half an hour to settle ; pour off the clear liquor for use ; it will contain all the alkali, the sediment being impurities. 6538. For some common purposes, and where articles are very dirty, the alkali may be made caustic in the following manner, by the addition of lime ; but this must be used with great caution, otherwise, as has been already stated, it will corrode and destroy the texture of the linen. Put common pearlash in a stone jar with five or six times its weight of water; let it stand till it is quite dissolved, and add as much weight of fresh slacked lime as that of the pearlash; stir this mixture frequently for several days, and let it stand to settle ; then pour off the clear liquor, and keep it for use in a stone bottle well corked. A small quantity of this caustic solution will be more effective than soap for particular purposes; and it is to be observed that alkali may be employed without danger to some articles that would be too strong for the washerwoman's hands. 6539. Another washing machine sufficiently simple is represented in the woodcut opposite. a, fig. 834., is a box to hold the clothes and the water, with alkali or soap, in which js a frame, moveable backwards and for- wards on the centres b and c, by means of the handles d and e ; the lower part of this frame consists of a series of wooden bars to agitate or beat the linen until the dirt is removed. 6540. The Doll;/, fig. 835., is a use- ful implement for washing such clothes as arc very dirty, and is used in many laundries. It is in form somewhat like a small churn, and strongly hooped. Two upriglits and a cross piece support a shaft with a cross handle ; on the lower end of the shaft, and inside the vessel, there is a circle of wood containing three or four strong projecting pegs. When the clothes dipped in ley have been put into this vessel, with water, the shaft is turned round sharply by the handle, and by the dashing them about they are sufficiently cleaned without the usual manual labour. ■ 6541. Machines for wringing the clothes after washing and boiling have also been con- trived; and it is observed'that the ordinary process of wringing by hand is peculiarly destructive to wearing apparel, especially such as is of a delicate texture. One construc- tion of this apparatus is the following : the linen is put into a S(|uare bag of strong sacking, kept open by wooden hoops ; this bag is put into a strong box, which opens at Fig. 835.