SPINNING AND WEAVING. CChap. I. 949 ssideration in making choice of the materials most suitable for this purpose. The skin, by kts structure, performs the functions of regulating the temperature; by perspiration ikhrou'^h its pores, the excess of heat is carried off; and hence, when this function is ■ideranged, and the insensible perspiration obstructed, fever is the consequence. In aiddition to this use, the pores of the skin serve as an outlet for getting rid of matters no li onger necessary in the animal economy, and -which, if retained, would prove injurious. IBesides this excretory function, the skin has likewise an absorbing power, by which it iiakes up matters in contact with it; and we may also observe, that it is abundantly sup- polied with minute nerves, which are the source of feeling, and which demand a certain Jiiegree of warmth to preserve their vital action. From these facts it is easy to deduce, ibhat clothing should be of such a nature as not to impede the necessary escape of poerspirable matter, but to suffer it to pass through its texture ; that it should be of such a uaon-conducting quality as to confine the heat generated by the blood sufficiently to poreserve the activity of the nervous system; and that, by its lightness, softness, and pbliancy, it should permit the free motion of the limbs. 5585. Our artificial clothing is chiefly obtained from four principal raw materials, wool, Cdax, cotton, and silk. The fleece of the sheep was probably one of the first substances nmade into cloth ; and that animal is supposed to have come originally from the moun- l:.ainous regions of Asia: flax appears to have been indigenous in Egypt, and probably in 1 ntber countries; the silk-worm was given to China ; and the cotton plant to India and .America. Wool, as the warmest material, is produced only in cold countries, while cootton, best calculated for a tropical climate, is only there found native. Thus, while the bounty of the Creator has furnished these in inexhaustible abundance, hhis wisdom has given them in such forms as to exercise the industry and ingenuity of iiman in applying them to useful purposes, and in such situations as strongly to encourage Ihhe intercourse between different nations. 5586. The earliest dresses of mankind probably consisted of the skins of animals ; and it (appears that these were employed as clothing long after the invention of the art of «veaving. Thus, Hercules is said to have worn the skin of a lion which he had slain ; \Virgil, when he describes iEneas as about to take his departure from Troy, represents haim as having his outer vest formed of a similar material; and he depicts Acestes as fi'ormidably clad in the skin of a Libyan bear. The sacred writings also contain frequent iimention of skins as furnishing some parts of dress. The same material is now used by } ome of the uncivilised nations of America; and, when prepared by the art of the tanner, Fkkins are still partially employed as dress in various parts of Europe. But skins are I iable to the objection we have mentioned, of being impervious to the cutaneous exhala- l)dons, although this property, by which they confine the heat, renders them valuable in hhose extreme northern countries, where the warmth of clothing is paramount to every bfjther consideration. In temperate and warmer climates, the rigidity of skins, the diffi- culty of cleaning them when soiled, and other circumstances, have caused them to give kvay to the use of tissues woven of threads made from various fibres, the superiority of kvhich was recognised at an early period, and gave rise to the arts of spinning and k veaving. I 5587. Wool, upon the whole, has several advayitages over other materials for clothing, ^^roxa its filamentous texture and elasticity, it may be made into cloths of great warmth, vet very light. It is not so easily wetted as others; by its felting property it may be • endered extremely compact, and yet may be woven into fine stuffs that almost rival in hhinness those of cotton, but having more warmth, and being less inflammable. In former :dmes, in Europe generally, woollen and not linen was worn next the skin ; and various '[pinions have been entertained with respect to each practice. The arguments in favour «l.f flannel are that from its loose texture, it is a better non-conductor of heat than a more ' lompact substance, and hence its warmth, by preventing the heat of our bodies from -scaping, and being thus more capable of preserving them in an equality of temperature, r.nd protecting them against sudden external changes. Its rough and uneven surface, likewise, gives, in every movement of the body in labour -r in exercise, a gentle stimulus, in consequence of the friction, to the cutaneous vessels ind nerves, which assists their action and maintains their functions. From its porous ' 3Xture, it also absorbs the cutaneous exhalations to a greater degree than any other naaterial in common use. On the other hand, it is thought to be more debilitating in '/arm weather, by increa.sing perspiration, and is considered to be less cleanly than linen, ■y not requiring change so often : the last argument, however, is nullified by changing it s frequently. It is, however, generally agreed that flannel is advantageous if employed -roperly ; and the cases where it is found most beneficial are where the body is exposed ) frequent changes of temperature, and for persons advanced in years, where the eircu- ation has become more feeble, and is consequently more easily checked. The finer the 'ool, the warmer it is, and the less it irritates the skin. Some, instead of wearing flannel ext the skin all the year round, leave it off in the summer; but, although tliis would