Chap. IV. 615 FOREIGN WINES. old, fetches a high price, and is sometimes added to improve the ordinaiy sherries by its nutty flavour. Pale sherries are made from the same grapes as the brown : the latter are coloured by an addition of some cheap must or -wine which has been boiled till it has acquired a deep brown tint. The pale sherries were some time ago preferred in England, being supposed most pure ; but the brown are now getting most into fashion. The inferior sherries ex- ported to England are often mixed with a cheap and light wine called Moguer, and are strengthened in the making by brandy ; but too frequently they receive adulteration by the London dealers. It is even asserted by Dr. Macculloch that a third of all the so-called sherries consumed in England is the produce of the home presses! 3459. The fine climate of Granada renders the vintage in that province extremely abundant as well as certain, furnishing the Muscatel, Bloom and Laxias raisins. The hills round Malaga are covered with vines, and no less than 10,000 presses are said to be at work during the vintage. The most celebrated of the wines are white, but there is also a sweet red wine called Tinto de Rota, so called from Rota, a little town opposite Cadiz, which produces but little true Tinto, and that is principally consumed in the country ; this is what is called amongst us tent wine ; it is a rich wine used as a stomachic, and made from a deep red grape. The wines of Malaga known amongst us by the name of Mountain are of two kinds, sweet and dry. The sweet wines are made from grapes completely ripe, and when genuine are highly esteemed; the dry wines are from grapes not so mature, are of an agreeable flavour, and improve by age. Some of the Malaga sherry comes next to that of Xeres, and is cheaper. From Valentia, the Benicarlo, a strong, full-bodied, deep-coloured red wine is exported chiefly to Bordeaux, as we have stated, to mingle with the wines of that place, in making up the claret for England, and to Oporto for mixing with port. It is grown at a place which is a few miles from Valentia. At Alicante they have an excellent red wine. From Catalonia, a great deal of red wine is annually shipped to Bordeaux and sent to England. The Macabeo of Catalonia is a sweet white wine : but the wine of this pro- vince is chiefly remarkable for its strength. La Mancha is a wine district. There the celebrated Val de Pinas is produced ; it is a good red wine like unadulterated port. As it is sold at about 3Z. I.0*. per pipe, Mr. Inglis, a late traveller, observes that an enterprising merchant, taking with him into that country wine staves just before the vintage, might secure, at an easy price, some very excellent wine. Murcia produces some good vins de liqueurs. 3460. It is stated, in a late Spanish journal, that in consequence of the abundance of the growth of oranges in the south of Spain, several of the growers prepare from them a delicious wine, resembling Madeira in its flavour: the juice is fermented and put into casks without the addition of brandy. 3461. Besides these Spanish wines, there are many in the various provinces little known to us; and there is no doubt but that, as the kingdom improves, they will one day be in much higher estimation, and will encroach much upon the Portuguese and French wines. When to the happy nature of the climate, and the richness of the soil, are super- added peace, knowledge, and industry, Spain may probably rival every country in its wines ; although at present it is chiefly famous for sweet and white wines. SuBSECT. 5. — Wines of Madeira and the Azores. 3462. The island of Madeira is almost entirely of volcanic origin, and the soil produced 1 by decomposing lava is found to be very favourable to the growth of the vine. This, ; added to the warmth of its climate, renders this place celebrated for the excellence of its ■wines. The vine was planted there soon after its first settlement by the Portuguese in 1421 ; but the introduction of the wines of Madeira into England is of more modern date I than those of Portugal, and they were first brought here about the middle of the last cen- I tury from the West Indies, which had been supplied from the island where they are made. 3463. Madeira produces several kinds of wine. The finest is Scrcial, a red wine ob- t tained from a grape much Uke the Malvasia, but which will only succeed on certain spots. ■ The quantity of this wine produced does not exceed forty or fifty pipes in the year ; it is I harsh and austere when new, but is mellowed by being kept long. 3464. The white wine usualli/ known in England by the name of Madeira is made in the ;greatest proportion ; and, when genuine, is one of the richest wines in the world, having .great strength, dryness, and delicacy of flavour. It is extremely durable in all climates, . and is improved by age. It is meliorated in a remarkable manner by a sea voyage, a t circumstance which was observed when it was first exported to North America. In consequence of this improvement, it has been the custom to prepare it for the European ! markets, by sending it purposely to the East and West Indies, which of course must very •considerably enhance the price. But it is by no means the case that the wine which has R r 4