(Chap. III. 919 RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOKERY. 5312. Braised kg of mutton.—Put a leg of mutton into a braising-pan, -with trimmings oof veal, and -with carrots, onions, and a bunch of parsley; also a few green onions pro- pperly seasoned. Cover the whole with thin slices of bacon, to keep them from burning. jStew all for four hours. Strain through a sieve, and afterwards reduce to a glaze the Uiquor. Glaze the mutton, and serve with glazed ouions. 5313. Calf's head {de fruits certain). — Bone a calf's head. Make a farce of veal, hbacon, and sweet herbs ifinely chopped. Mix them together with two yolks of eggs. SStiifiF the head with the farce, and secure it by sewing up the head. Wrap it in a cloth, aand put it into a braising-pan with several slices of veal and bacon. Season it with cearrots and a bunch of parsley, thyme, bay leaf, and a blade of mace. Moisten it with oone glass of white wine, and a ladleful of broth. Let it stew for four hours, and serve idt with a financiere. Boil a glass of Madeira, and put it into the sauce, which should be hhighly seasoned. 5314. Fowls a la Montmorencie.—Take a couple of fine fowls ; prepare them as if for bboiling, taking away also the breast-bone. Put lemon-juice, salt, and a little butter into tithe body ; lard the breast. Line the stew-pan with bacon, and lay the fowls in covered wsvith a poiile made in the following manner. Cut into dice a pound of veal, another of bbacon, and a small piece of the fat of bam. Frj' them white in half a pound of butter. NMoisten wfth water; season it with parsley, salt, pepper, thyme, half a bay leaf, and one cclove. Stew it for some time over a slow fire ; strain it over the fowls, which stew for •'three quarters of an hour. When done, drain and glaze them of a fine colour. Garnish nwith larded sweetbreads, and serve with ragout a I'AUemande for sauce. 5315. Fowl a la Monglus. — Take a cold roasted fowl, and remove the breast and fleshy parts away from the t'back hone and side bones. Put into the fowl either an emince or a salpigon (see terms explained). Beat t'the yolks of two eggs, and cover the fowl with ; strewing over it afterwards crumbs of bread. Brown it lightly in a Dutch oven, or by a salamander. Serve it with a brown sauce, if the inside bo stuffed with a sal- ; piron ; but if with an emince, a veloute sauce must be used. The salpipon may be made of dressed fowl, tongue, truffles, .ind mushrooms, cut into dice, and warmed up in fsauce Espa^nole. When cold, use it as above directed. SalpiQon is always used with brown sauces. Emince may also be made with meat of dressed fowl or game, minced extremely small, and warmed up in bi3echamelle sauce, well seasoned. With an emince a white sauce is always used. ."5316. Removes of ham.—Soak a Westphalia ham for twelve hours ; a Westmoreland, uanless very highly dried, for half that time. Boil it for two hours, then drain, skin, and titrim it; put it into a braising-pan, lined at the bottom with thin slices of veal, and sea- f'Soned with carrots, onions, parsley, bay leaf, and spices. Pour over it two glasses of rich iconsomme and a bottle of Madeira. Let it boil for two hours more. When done, pour cout some of the liquor, and reduce it, after skimming oif the fat, to an Espagnole, the ssauce to be sei-ved with this dish. Of the rest of the liquor make glaze, and serve the hbam immediately on taking it out of the braise. 5317. Westphalia ham a Vessence Saw off the knuckle of a small Westphalia ham, t:aking care not to splinter the bone. Soak it one day in water to draw out the brine. IBoil it in plain water four hours. Drain it, remove the rind, trim it, giving it a nice r round form. Dry the fat from it for a few minutes in the oven, that the glaze may be properly given to it. Serve under it sauce a I'essence. 5318. Remove of heef tongue. — Take a pickled tongue ; boil it for three hours. Peel noff the skin while hot, trim, and glaze it. Serve it with mashed turnips on one side, and nivith mashed carrots and spinach on the other. Sect. IV. ENTREES. SuBSECT. 1 Entries of Beef. 5319. Miroton of beef.—Cut itfto neat slices some rump of heef, either cooked pre- 1 /iously, or fresh. Put the slices into a frying-pan with sauce Espagnole or brown Italienne. 1 jlive them a few boils, and serve hot; keep the meat always well covered with the sauce, )r it will become black and dry. 5320. Mirotons of palates of beef (a la Ude). — Cut the palates and some truffles into !qual sizes. Dress them en miroton, (that is, boil them with sauce in a frying-pan). Take nnslirooms, all of nearly one size, to make a border round the dish; put in the middle a •.alpi(;on of truffles, mushrooms, and beef palates. Add sauce Espagnole to the miroton. .et every article to be used be prepared before the dish is made up — palates and truffles, lalternately, to the very top. Remember to keep the whole hot, or it will become dry. StJBSECT. 2 Entrees of Mutton. 5321. Cutlets of mutton — (purde of mushrooms) Divide the best part of a neck of nutton into cutlets, trimming each neatly. Season each side of the cutlets with pepper ind salt, and with a paste brush cover them with yolk of egg; dip them into melted luttcr, and then into bread crumbs. Press the crumbs firmly on the meat, and again dip hem into the bread crumbs. Make each cutlet equal and neat with the knife, and put 3 N 4