STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. IJook XXIV. 1152 . them safe, the fore-hand should rise, the back should be straight, the step should be short but quick, -which fatigues least. As they approach the hunter in form, they are best fitted for quick work, and as they resemble the best kind of agricultural horses, which are large, they are calculated for heavy draughts, as coaches, &c. But in all, a portion of blood gives courage, durability, and condenses strength with less bulk, by which activity is gained. It is of great consequence to a coach horse, that the neck and head be so formed as to be enabled to remain well to the bridle. Sect. XII. CONDITION OF HORSES. 6832. The term condilion of a horse, though conventionally well understood among horse- men, is not easily defined, nor rendered distinctly intelligible to others. It might be supposed merely to imply those appearances that denote ordinary good health; but though it includes this, it has likewise a peculiar technical signification. It means such a condition or state which is most favourable towards performing the particular kind of work to which he is to be applied ; this condition in the cart horse implies a healthy state, with a general fullness and lustiness of body and muscles necessary to his drawing heavy weights. In the racer and hunter, on the contrai-y, these qualities are not what are required to be in condition, but such a state of body as fits them for accelerated and long-continued motion, dependent upon great condensation of muscular fibre with the smallest bulk, which is promoted by the absorption of all fatty matter, favourable to the lightness and free action of the lungs. The horse-dealer who has by means of warmth, grooming, and change of diet, produced a shining coat and general good health, may produce a horse apparently in as " high a condition," yet upon trial he may be found defective in those qualities that would be " in condition for the field or road." 6833. A horse is said to be out of condition when his he.ilth is deranged, or is in other respects not fit for his peculiar work, and he is to be brought into condition by veterinary sliill, or by a certain training to be given by the experienced groom. To effect this with race horses or hunters is an affair of great delicacy, requiring much practical knowledge, but to bring and keep carriage and saddle horses in condition is more within the experience of an ordinary groom. To promote this object effectually, it is useful to possess as much knowledge as can be acquired respecting the physiology of the animal in general, the nature of various kinds of food, and the science of nutrition, the best construction of stables, and the effect of exercise, cleanliness, dressing, and good management generally ; in short, of every circumstance that may affect his improvement or deterioration. Nor are theoretical and scientific views to be despised, because although they cannot stand instead of experience, they m.iy confirm or correct the notions of those who have to depend upon practice alone, which although often the right result of experiment, is sometimes mere empiricism ; and it is to the addition of true science to the art of managing horses, that many modem improvements are owing. Sect. XIII. PRECAUTIONS IN TRAVELLING. 6834. Before setting out on a journey on horseback, it is proper that the horse is in good condition, and to see that all the appointments are in proper order. The bridle should not be new, but one that the horse is accustomed to. It should be a double-curbed one. The snafBe can be ridden with certainty ; but the snaffle cannot do the work of the curb in staying a horse, in saving him from the ground under stumbling or fatigue, or throwing him on his haunches, or tightening his mouth. It is of still more consequence that the saddle be one that the horse has worn before, and that fits him thoroughly. The girths should be made of the best materials to prevent accidents ; and if the saddle be liable to come forward, however objectionable the appear- ance, a crupper had better be used. Some days before a journey is attempted, if the shoes are not in order, shoe the horse ; but by no means let it be done .as you set off, otherwise, having proceeded on your journey a few miles, you find that one foot is pricked, and lameness ensues; or if this be not the case, one or more shoes pinch, or do not settle to the feet, all of which c.innot be so well altered as by your own smith. 683.^). It is always best to begin a journey by short stages, which accustoms the liorse to continued exertion. The distance a horse can perform with ease do))cnds greatly upon circumstances. Light-carcased horses, very young ones, and such as are low in flesh, require often bailing, particularly in hot wc.ither ; horses in full condition, and such as are from seven to ten or twelve years old, arc better when ridden a stage of fifteen or twenty milas, witli a proportionate length of baiting time afterwards than when b.ailed often with short stoppages. The state of the weather should .nlso be considered ; when it is very hot, the stages should be shorter. As fatigue weakens the stomach, it is best to ride the horse gently the last two or three miles. If a handful of grass cm be got by the road-side, it will wonderfully refresh the horse without delaying much. In hot weather let the horse have a gulp or two of water in passing a clem pond, but not more. A little cold water, even when the horse is hot, is very refreshing to him, and inav be given with .safety, although a large quantity, at that lime, would be dangerous. None should be given him till a few minutes after he is pulled up, and has recovered his wind : nor should he have much while he is getting cool. Cold w.iter is apt to produce colic or cramp in the bowels, for wliich the best preventive is to keep in exercise by a quick or a gentle trot Should cramp in the bowels take place, the best remedy is four ounces of sweet spirit of nitre, given in a pint of warm milk, with about a tea-spoonful of ground ginger, mustard, or pepper. On going up a hill walk the horse, and walk yoursr If if possible, which relieves him, and t.ake care that no stones get into his feet. On bringing the horse into an inn, after a journey, after the saddle is taken off, let the perspiration be removed with a sweat knife, and then with a rug thrown over him, let him be walked till he is cool. When dry let him bo put into the stable, and have some good fresh hay, which miiv be sprinkled with waler : if very thirsty lie may have a little water ; he is then to be dressed, rubbed, foot-picked, and foot-washed by sponging, but not by ricllng into tlio water ; proceed then to feed him with corn .and beans. It is to be observed that a horse's digestion does not begin after a bait in less th.m .an hour, and continues three ; if the b.nts are at too short intervals, they fail of their object. If a horse seems disposed to lie down .after fatigue, encourage it. At night foot-stopping is useful, and litter, with plenty of water with his food. If verj; much fatigued, iierh.-ips a mash will be necessary. Some recommend that before a horse sets out on a long journey, ho should be a