GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. 824 Book XL plate, the cover being removed, and when the fire bums well, no smoke will ascend through the square opening just men- tioned ; there is, therefore, an extremely clear fi.re to broil over. To support the gridiron at any height, two uprights are placed in the iron plate, with holes, into which projecting points in the gridiron are inserted. When the fire has biimed up suffi- ciently clear, and broiling commences, the sliding doors, c, c, are opened a little, generally less than is represented in the wood-cut, which, admitting air to the fire in another direction, in some degree checks the draught downwards, and therefore moderates the heat. There is also a damper in the perpendicular flue, within reach, by which the cook can re- gulate the draught, and, of course, the fierceness of the fii-e. In the woodcut, the apertures on the iron plate are represented closed by two squares, one within the other; the inner square IS that which is taken out when broiling is required: the larger one is only taken out ■when cleaning or repairs are required. Within the smallest square is a circular aper- ture, filled, when not wanted, by an iron disk, as represented in the cut. This last cir- cular aperture, when open, is generally found sufficient, as the heat sent out is intense, and spreads considerably. When broiling is not wanted, the whole of the apertures on the top are closed, as shown in the woodcut; and the apparatus then serves for a hot plate. Lately an improvement has been made in this excellent broiling apparatus. Instead of the standards being fixed to the hot plate, they are united by an arch, as in fig. 649.; and the lower part being bent to a right angle, they stand loose by their weight alone at the proper place, and may be removed, when broiling is not re- quired, and the hot plate alone is wanted for boiling or stewing. The best method for using this apparatus is the follow- ing:— Instead of keeping the gridiron hori- zontal, which occasions much of the fat to fall upon the iron, the gridiron should be kept slanting, as in fig. 649., by which the fat runs down the bars into ladles placed to receive it; a trough was used at first; but the cook at the City Club found ladles more convenient. We mention this the more particularly, because intelligent cooks are extremely capable of making improvements, when not bigoted, as they too often are, to their own practices. There is another advantage gained by this arrangement, which is, that when meat is on the gridiron, it serves to keep much of the heat from the face of the cook. From having examined the process of broiling by this apparatus, we cannot too strongly recommend it, for the cleanness, facility, and expe- dition with which the process can be performed, as well as the great convenience to the cooks. When broiling is not wanted, a saucepan may be kept boiling over this circular aperture ; of course it must be supported upon a little trivet to let the air get down, and the bottom of the saucepan not be allowed to cover up the whole aperture. We think it proper likewise to mention, that to insure the right performance of this useful apparatus for broiling, it is by far the most advisable to procure it from the original inventor, Mr. Jeakes. It is observed by Mistress Meg Dods, that " broiling is the most difficult manual office the common cook has to perform, and that which requires the most unremitting attention. She may turn her back upon the stew-pan or the spit; but the gridiron can never be left with impunity." Jeakes's apparatus certainly enables her to attend to this operation more closely than any other, since she is less incommoded by the heat of the fire. We have represented this broiling-stove by itself, because it may be so executed, and is sometimes done so; but it is frequently also made to form part of a larger hot plate, beneath which the flame passes, and on which various saucepans and stew-pans can be placed; and the same fire is sometimes made to heat an oven and a hot closet 4692. Fig. 650. is a confectioner's stove and hot plate for boiling sugar, in the establish- ment of the well-known Mr. Gunter, of Berkeley S(iuarc, and which he speaks of as the