G78 Book VIIL BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. for colouring brandies ; as bunit sugar, treacle, oak-chips, logwood, safiFron, and terra japonica. The three first are most employed. These methods may, however, be all con- sidered properly as sophistications, though not deleterious. 3822. Newly distilled brandy appears to contain a small quantity of nnconibiued acid. Chaptal observes, that the thin or ill-fermented wines contain nmch malic acid; and that these, when distilled, yield a spirit which is of a bad quality, some of the acid having passed over in distillation at the same time ; and such spirit has often an empyreumatic flavour. The richest and best brandies are freest from this acid, which disappears by age from combining intimately with the alcohol; hence the mellowness of old brandy. The union- of the vegetable acids with the spirit, in this natural way, is so strong, that the compound bears the addition of water in any quantity, without causing a separation of the two constituents: genuine brandy, in which the fiery nature of the pure alcohol is softened through age by the combination of acid and the essential oil of wine with other matters, is considered to be less injurious to the animal fibre, and less hurtful to the constitution, than pure malt spirit. The malic acid in the brandy in fact forms with the alcohol a species of malic ether. 3823. Spirit of wine was originally made by distilling it from brandy, and continues still to be prepared in this manner in France, though with us it is procured from malt spirit. 3824. It is important to be generally known, that what is here called British brandy is not in fact brandy, this being the name for the spirit distilled from wine, as we have already stated. The so-called British brandy is said to be made chiefly from malt spirit, with the addition of mineral acids and various flavouring ingredients, the exact composition being kept secret. It is merely an imitation of brandy, however nearly it may resemble it, and ought not to be called brandy, if names are to be used for the purpose of distinguishing dif- ferent substances. 3825. Dr. Kitchener recommends travellers to carry with them, in order to mix witii water, as a beverage much safer than many others they may meet with, some brandy of the full strength, which will cost a littlo more than that commonly sold, which is usually ten per cent, below proof, and which, he observes, " crafty dealers put off as a fine, old, and mild spirit, tliough really only br.indy and water, and attribute to age what they effect by aqueous adulteration ; and so obtain, not only the profit arising from selling water at the price of brandy, but an extra sum for so doing, as a pretended remuneration for the immense loss of interest occasioned by having kept it till it is so exceedingly old and mild I" 3826. A mixture of cyder and rectified spirit has been used for imitating French brand}', with the adflition of wine lees. The cyder and the spirit here will form a malic ether; and such a mixture, if nothing else, or at least nothing of a deleterious kind, were added, would be less objectionable than some others, not being unwholesome ; this has been re- commended to be employed, where the price of French brandy is objectionable, in making certain liqueurs. 3827. With respect to what are sometimes named brandy from potatoes, and brandy from fruit of various kinds, it is scarcely necessary to mention, after what we have said, that such names are improper, since there can be but one brandy, and that is from the grape. What is distilled from other vegetables may be a strong spirit, but it cannot be brand}'. It is true, as we have said, that the pure alcohol or spirit is the same from whatever substance it is procured ; but the spirits we have mentioned have not the flavour of true brandy, and differ from it in other respects. A close imitation can be effected only by the addition of other materials kept secret by the manufacturers, and therefore not to be trusted. Among other adultera tions of brandy, hot and pung:ent substances, such as pepper, ginger, capsicum, &c., are added for the purpose of making the brandy have the appearance of strength; they may be detected by evaporating a little of the suspected brandy nearly to dryness, when the acrid and burning taste will be sensibly increased, if such substances have been used. Sdbsect. 2. — Ittttn. 3828. Bum is prepared from materials which are the produce of the sugar-cane, and is chiefly manufactured in the West Indies. These materials consist of molasses or treacle, which is the imcrystallisable syrup that remains after the raw sugar has been formed. To this are added sciimmings of the hot cane juice from the boiling-house, which contains much of the aroma of the cane; or sometimes raw cane juice from canes expressed for the purpose ; likewise lees called Dunder, consisting of the spent wash, or feculencies from a former distillation, and which serve the purpose of a ferment, like yeast in the brewing of beer; for though cane juice ferments of itself without yeast, yet this fermentation would be too slow. These ingredients undergo the jirocess of the vinous fermentation ; and when the spirit is thus formed, it is separated by distillation. The flavour peculiar to this si)irit, and which has rendered it famous in almost eveiy part of the world, is derived from the essential oil of the sugar-cane, which is imparted during tlic fermentation, in consequence of the raw juice and fragments of the cane which are in the wash ; a spirit may be distilled