Chap. IV. 633 DOMESTIC WINES. SuBSECT. 3. — General Principles for the Fabrication of Domestic Wines from oilier Fruits independent of the Grape. 3552. Though the principles described for making wine from the grape are, in general, applicable to that from any other fruit, yet, from some diiferences in the composition of the latter from that of grapes, certain circumstances require particular attention. 3553. We stated that grapes alone of all our fruits contain tartaric acid xinited to potash, and that this tartrate of potash, though held in solution in the fruit, heing insoluble in alcohol, is precipitated in a solid form, called tartar, when fermentation has converted a portion of the must into spirit; and that, consequently, grape wine properly made is free from acid, the tartaric being the only one contained in grapes in any considerable quantity. With all our other fruits the case is dlEFerent; they do not contain the tartaric acid, but, instead, they have chiefly the malic, and sometimes the acetic and the citric, all of which exist either in a free state or form salts that are soluble ; hence they remain in the wine after it is made, and are, to a certain degree, injurious to the human constitution. Another circumstance which distinguishes grapes from other fruits was stated: the tartar which they contain naturally acts as a ferment in the must, and hence grape juice ferments sponta- neously ; but the ferment of other fruits is in such small quantity, that yeast must be added to their juices to begin the fermentation. 3554. The art of making what is termed home-made wine in England is of no great anti- quity. Pennant says that in the year 1635 they began to make some from the raisins or dried grapes of Spain and Portugal, and that one Francis Chamberlayne had succeeded so well that he obtained a patent for the manufacture of such wines for fourteen years. The author of the " Taller " complained that in his day " they could squeeze Bordeaux out of the sloe, and draw Champagne from an apple." 3555. It must be evident that a knowledge of the chemical composition of all substances used in fermentation is essential in our reasonings or experiments made to ascertain the best modes of operation. But, unfortunately, vegetable chemistry has not yet made sufficient progress, or chemists have not considered it as an object of sufficient importance, to determine with accuracy the analysis of our various native fruits. We are, therefore, ■enabled only to possess general ideas on this subject, which, however, imperfect as they are, will assist us in our practice. The gooseberry has been chemically examined by Dr. John ; but the proportions of its ingredients were not ascertained. It consists of water, uncrystallisable sugar, bi-citrate of lime, bi-citrate of potash, bi-malate of lime, bi-malate of potash, resin, a modification of gum, fibrin, ammonia in an unknown state of combina- tion, phosphate of lime, and phosphate of magnesia. Whether great practical advantage would result from the complete analysis of all our fruits employed for the purpose of making wine, it is difficult to say at present; but the analogy of similar cases would lead us to desire more definite information on this subject than we yet possess. 3556. Dr. Macculloch, in consequence of successful experiments tvhich he has made on this subject, recommends the addition of tartar in preparing the must of domestic wines from other fruits than grapes. He has found this not only to meliorate the quantity of the produce, but also to increase the spirit which a given quantity of sugar is capable of yielding. The same author farther observes that experiments have not determined accurately the proper proportion of tartar that should be used; but as all wine deposits tartar with its lees, it may be considered that it has dissolved as much as it can of this salt during the process of vinification ; or, in other words, only a certain quantity can remain in solution in the wine, the rest being precipitated or thrown down as so much extraneous matter. It is not likely, therefore, he observes, that we should err in adding too much, as the wine will only keep its proper proportion. The proportion of tartar may vary from two to six per cent, in proportion to the sweetness of the fruit and the quantity of added sugar; the sweetest nmst requiring most tartar. For this purpose the purified cream of tartar may do, but this is the pure hi-tartrate of potash separated from the fermenting principle, which is united with it as it falls down in the lees. The crude or unpurified tartar is better ; and it should be employed in the same state in which it comes from the wine casks. This will be a powerful and proper ferment, instead of the yeast commonly made use of. 3557. The nmlic acid, which derives its name from its abundance in apples, is the predo- minant acid in our fruits, and, indeed, constitutes the chief dilference between cyder and wine. It might be a question for chemists whether some means might not be contrived for getting rid of a portion of the malic acid which is so detrimental to our domestic wines. Dr. Macculloch observes that perhaps a hint might be taken from the manufacture of sherry in Spain, in which lime is added to the grapes, which probably acts in neutral- ising what portion of malic acid they may contain, or a part of the tartaric acid. 3558. With respect to the proccsncs for producing wine from our fruits, our readers will have perceived, from what was said on making wiuc from grapes, that dilFerent methods