CuAP. XV. EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY. 295 Tlie substauces employed for the glaze arc ground to Impalpable powders in water to the consistence of cream, and the biscuit ware, now coloured, is dipped into tiiis, called dip, and enough adheres to form a vitrified covering, when the ware is again put into an oven called the (jloss oven, which finishes the baking. 1301. A variety of glazes are employed by different manufacturers; a good glaze or enamel is essential to the beauty of earthenware and porcelain : it should experience the same degree of expansion and contraction, in consequence of the change of temperature, as the biscuit which it covers, othei-wise it will crack in all directions, which happens to imperfect glazes, or to earthenware where the body and glaze are not suitable to each other. Silica alone cannot be fused in the most powerful furnace, and therefore cannot be em- ployed for a glaze; but when an alkali or lime is added to it, it is vitrifiable by a very strong heat. This mixture is the glaze used in true porcelain ; but the ordinary earthen- ware cannot bear the heat that would be necessary for it, and therefore one more fusible must be resorted to. Silica, combined with oxide of lead, is easily converted into a glass fit for glazing earthenware, and this being convenient for the potter has been generally used. But this glaze we have already stated to be objectionable, since, when the quantity of lead is considerable, there is great danger of its being dissolved by substances used as food, and the deleterious effects of lead are well known. The application of such glazes has likewise injurious effects upon the health of the workmen, who ai'e frequently seized with paralysis. The best glazing for common earthenware vessels that are to be used in preseiTing and preparing food is undoubtedly that which has been described as produced by salt, though this glazing has not a high lustre; but it is very hard and durable, never cracks, is insoluble in all kinds of acids, and is not, in the smallest degree, unwholesome. It has long been a desideratimi to discover some glaze which has all the advantages of that where lead is employed, without its poisonous qualities ; and other glazes have been invented, but they are not yet employed universally in our pottery. The glaze for common cream-coloured, or queen's ware, is composed of 53 parts white lead, 36 of ground flints, 16 felspar, and 4 of flint glass. Some use white lead, ground flints, and common salt. The quantity of lead employed here is considered too small to be injui'ious to health, particularly as it is so locked up in the glaze : but some manufacturers employ a glaze that has no lead, as white glass and soda. Mr. Rose in Coalport, Shi-opshire, makes his glaze of 27 parts felspar, 18 of borax, 4 of Lynn sand, 3 of nitre, 3 of soda, and 3 of Cornish china clay. Before the invention of this method of applying designs to earthenware, table services of English pottery were either composed of plain queen's ware, sometimes with a coloured edge ; and occasionally with a painted border, done by hand, and which was executed in a slovenly manner. But the mode of transferring prints to earthenware gives such a facility in decorating it that it has completely changed the aspect of our pottei-y, and contributed greatly to extend our trade in earthenware over the continent of Europe. 1302. Tlie blue printed ware of England cannot yet be manufactured in France, according to the report of M. Brongniart, director of the porcelain manufacture at Sevres. It appears that the extent of our potteries in Staffordshire, and the abundance of fuel, enables us to prepare the calcined flints at a cheaper rate than the French can ; consequently, they employ chiefly pipe-clay, which, alone, is a very inferior material; and the English artisans have more dexterity from their vast practice. The French, indeed, admit that our ware of this kind is unrivalled for strength, lightness, and elegance, the delicate blue prmting equalling the colouring of the Chinese ; and this the French fail in attempting. SoBSECT. 3. — Some other Kinds of Earthenware made in England. 1303. The wares called lustres have a metallic appearance, and would be highly prized if they were not so cheap and common. There are gold and copper lustres ; also platina lustres of two kinds, one which imitates polished steel, and another that approaches to the colour of silver. The latter are made by dissolving the platina in aqua regia, and mixing this solution with balsam of sulphur; this compound is diluted with turpentine and laid on the ware, which is then placed in an oven, where the metals are revived in their metallic state, and they are then covered with a glaze, which effectually protects them. An iron lustre is also sometimes made, but it is inferior to the platina. An avcnturme glaze may be given by grinding some silver leaf with the above glaze. 1304. A hind of pale red or flesh-coloured earthenware, not glazed, is made at Lambeth from clay found at Maidstone, and is much used for ornamental vases, stoves, and orna- mented chimney-pots, &c. 1305. Lately a manufactory of terra cotta of flower-vases, garden pots, &c. of a superior kind has been established at Lowestoffe in J,eiccstershire, from clay found on the estate of Sir Frederick Fowke. Some of these are made of classical shapes; others are of English