ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 270 Book V. ■wise the intrusion of winged insects and reptiles. To supply the place of ordinary cur- tains, the wire gauze is framed in pannels, wliich are connected together by hinges, so as to allow any one of them to be opened at pleasure. The sacking, heading, and tester, may be permanently fixed. A patent was taken out for this application of wire gauze by Breidenback of Birmingham. 1205. It is necessary sometimes to take bedsteads to pieces for the purpose of having them cleaned ; and though generally an upholsterer or a carpenter is employed to do this, yet it is proper that servants should perform an operation which is not difficult if done with regularity. An iron bed-key is requisite to undo the large screws by which the bedstead is held together, and all the parts should be marked, so that no mistake may be made in putting them together again. 1206. Bedding.—Feather beds, or beds stuffed with feathers, are now in universal use in this country. In these modern times of refinement and luxury, the good qualities of a bed ai'e considered as of the first importance ; and imdoubtedly the restoration of strength after fatigue depends much upon the properties of this article of furniture ; and health as well as comfort demand that its materials and construction should be well attended to. For the nature of feathers, and the mode of cleaning and dressing them, see Book V. Chap. V. " Materials for Furniture." The feathers are inclosed in a case of ticking. To prevent the feathers from coming through, which they are apt to do, and which occa- sions much of that dust commonly termed Jlue, so disagreeable in bed-rooms, some rub bees-wax upon the inside of the ticking, or a mixture of bees-wax and yellow soap. This is necessary when the ticking is thin; but it is better to have the ticking so close and stout as not to require it; and to prevent the feathers from penetrating, the ticking is occasionally made double. Feather beds, to be kept in good order, require to be well shaken every day, otherwise the feathers mat together in hard knots, that are difficult to undo and separate. When this has happened from long use or neglect, so that the beds are uncomfortable to those who sleep upon them, it is necessary to take the feathers out to have them dressed, and the ticking well washed, dried, and aired, if not renewed. The dressing of the feathers is usually performed by regular manufacturers, in which case it is necessary to take care that they do not keep back part of the feathers, which dishonest persons are apt to do. The process may be performed by any one in a house where there is a spare empty room. The feathers should be emptied in a sheet, and carefully loosened by hand, picking out all the quill parts from the light feathers. The loosened or cleared feathers are then to be returned by handsful into the new ticking, through a part of the seam left unclosed for the purpose. It is scarcely necessarj' to add, that this is a ti'oublesome and unpleasant operation, from the feathery dust; while it is going on, the doors and windows of the room should be kept shut, to prevent the feathers flying all about. As there will be some deficiency of feathers by this process, and by constant use. it will, perhaps, be requisite to supply this by the addition of a portion of new feathers. If the feathers from the poultry are not given as a perquisite to the cook or dairy-maid, which is sometimes the case, they are often sufficient for this purpose; or these may be collected and kept for pillows, or any similar use. In this case, after being well selected, they should be put into strong brown paper bags, and well dried by keeping them several days in the oven after the bread is baked, until all smell is removed. They are then to be taken out, the quill parts cut off carefully, and the feathers cleaned according to the directions which we have given; they should then be restored to the paper bags, and kept in a dry place for use. Bed-ticking will last many years with care ; in towns and smoky situations it may be advantageous to have coverings of brown holland, which can with ease be taken ofiF and washed as occasion requires; Formerly it was the custom to use only feather beds laid upon the sacking; but these beds were very thick, and contained much feathers. Economy and attention to health have introduced the custom of laying a thinner feather bed upon a mattress, and some- times that upon a paillasse. 1207. In purchasing feather beds the purchasers may choose their feathers, which are of various prices, at so much per pound; and they may see the ticking filled with them, having the quantity put in which they wish. If too much is put into the bed it will feel hard. 1208. Mattresses are a firmer kind of beds, usually placed under the feather beds, but sometimes preferred to the latter for sleeping upon, as being less soft, and not so relaxing. They consist of a bag of canvass or ticking stuffed with various materials ; but as these are not intended to be moved or shaken, they are fixed in their places by packthread put through, and tufts fixed at equal distances : the edge or border of the mattress is fonned square. The materials with which mattresses are filled are usually horse-hair, wool, flock, millpuff (a kind of coarse wool), chaff, straw, ulva-marina, cocoa-nut fibre, or coils of elastic wire. Hay and chaff" are occasionally employed. 1:209. The best of these is good horse-hair, which, when of the first quality, preserves