548 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. botli added together, they are found to be very nearly equal to that of the sugar; hence it appears that the latter is converted into alcoliol and carbonic acid gas. Bodies in a complete state of dnjiiess cannot undergo any kind of fermentation. Though animal and vegetable substances, containing their natural juices, soon ferment, and, at last, putrefy ; yet, if the moisture be entirely expelled by drying, they may be preserved for any length of time without change. This will be further illustrated in Book. X. " On the Preservation of Food." 3088. We stated that the substance called the Ferment is a necessary and important ingre- dient in fermentation. The researches of chemists have, perhaps, not yet satisfactorily shown what is the vegetable principle in which this property consists. It is generally sup- posed to be gluten ; some, with less probability, have supposed it to be vegetable albumen j and, if not identical with one of these, it is evidently something very analogous. How- ever this may be, it appears to be essentially necessary, as well as the saccharine prin- ciple, to the process, and both together frequently exist in vegetable juices. AVhen that is the case, the juice will ferment of itself if exposed to the proper degree of heat. The 7nust, or expressed juice of grapes, is of this kind; to make it ferment nothing is neces- sary farther than to place it in the proper temperature, as it contains naturally both sac- charine matter and the proper ferment. Though we have stated that sugar is the only substance that can affoid alcohol by fermentation, yet it appears that sugar perfectly pure will not ferment by itself, and that the addition of some portion of ferment is essential. It is true that solutions of coarse sugars and syrups will ferment of themselves in warm weather, as the sugar refiners often experience to their great inconvenience; but these impure sugars contain a small portion of natural ferment in the other vegetable principles which exist in tlie raw sugar as imported; and our observation applies only to sugar per- fectly pure, when refined. If a solution of fine crystallised sugar be suffered to repose and evaporate, it deposits crystals instead of fermenting; if it has been perfectly fine, the remaining syrup will not ferment; but if it has been imperfectly refined, the residuum contains some of the natural ferment, and it wiU run into fermentation. 3089. All vegetable juices containing saccharine matter have also a certain portion of this natural ferment, as well as the juice of grapes, the sugar-cane, and also the decoction of barley or of malt, and therefore they also will ferment of themselves; but most of these have so little of this principle, that the vinous fermentation would take place ver}' slowly, and often so slowly that the acetous fermentation would set in almost as soon, and vinegar, instead of alcohol, be the result; or it might even be the case that the putrefactive ferment- ation alone would appear. 3090. It is the practice, therefore, to add an artificial ferment to most materials, in order to bring on the process of fermentation more rapidly and effectually. In our description of the general phenomena which appear during the process, we mentioned a froth thrown up, called yeast, which is generated partly by the very process itself, though the elements composing it must have existed in the mixture; this has the peculiar property of acting as artificial ferment; that is, if added to any liquids containing the other necessary ingre- dient, saccharine matter, it will excite in it the vinous fermentation. Instead, there- fore, of suffering the materials for the production of spirit to ferment of themselves, it is the pi-actice sometimes to add to them a portion of the yeast which was produced by a former fermentation of similar substances. Thus in the fermentation of wort, or the decoction of malt, in the brewing of ale, some yeast from a former brewing is added, not because the wort would not ferment at all without it, but because, in that case, the vinous fermentation would come on very slowly and imperfectly, and the liquor would soon turn sour. 3091. There appears to be something peculiar in the ferment generated in each stage of the fermentative process: thus, to produce the vinous fermentation, the yeast thrown up by another vinous fermentation is necessary. The matter deposited in the making of vinegar by the acetous fermentation is capable of acting as an acetous ferment; and it is well known that the putrefaction of flesh is hastened by being placed in the proximity of flesh already putrid. The acetous and putrefactive ferment, however, cannot, like yeast, or the vinous fenuent, be procured in a separate form. 3092. The nature of yea.'it is a subject of particidar interest; but, although it has been much studied by chemists, it is still imperfectly understood. 3093. The yeast of beer, analysed by Westrumb, was found to contain, ia 15,360 parts, Parts. Parti. Potash Carbonic acid . - - - I.^ Acptic acid - - - - 10 Millie acid - - - - 45 Lime - ... - 09 Alcohol - .... 240 Extractive - - - - 120 Mucilage ----- 240 Saccharine matter ... 315 Gluten 480 Water ..... 13,.-i95 But it is obvious that all these ingredients in yeast are not essential to it as a ferment From the experiments of the same chemist it appears that, when the yeast is filtered,