2 Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. exhibitions of -works of art, with numerous opportunities of acquiring general knowledge. In the choice of a town residence, one must be guided not only by ])eculiar views, but by the comparative healthiness of the street — its aspect, neighbourhood, and many other local circumstances, which arc, in general, pretty well imderstood. Not only the width of the street, but its dil'ection, is important: one running east and west must have one front of the houses looking to the north, and deprived of the sun almost the whole of the day, while the other is exposed to its full radiance. 4. A suburban residence, or one in the environs of a city or town, offers some advan- tages that cannot be obtained by living in town. The situation is, in general, more healthy, the air not being so much contaminated by the thousands of chimneys that are perpetually throwing out smoke and deleterious gases. Ground not bfcing so valuable as in town, many more conveniences can be acquired, such as a garden, and perhaps a field or two, attached to the house ; and this additional space may ba built upon, according to any proposed plan. Thus this kind of residence, while it possesses many of the advan- tages of the country, such as good air and plenty of room, may at the same time enable the occupier to enjoy occasionally the conveniences of a town life. The pleasure to be derived from a garden, and from the cheerful and enlivening effect of trees and vegetation in general, together with quiet and absence of smoke, and innumerable disagi-eeable objects constantly presented in cities, are circumstances worthy of consideration. It should be men- tioned, however, that in the immediate vicinity of towns the atmosphere is still in some degree charged with noxious matters, particularly when the wind blows in certain direc- tions; and therefore, in order to enjoy the full benefit of pure air, it is necessary to remove to a sufficient distance beyond their influence, 5. T7tose who resolve to settle cnlirelyin the country, at a distance from large towns, must make up their minds to be deprived of many of those advantages of a town and suburban life which we have enumerated. The opportunities for social intercourse must in general be more limited, and even the proximity of neighbours may not be agreeable. The varied amusements which town affords can only be expected at long intervals. In return for these deprivations, perfectly pure air may be obtained ; also retirement, and a species of independence, with a distinct class of enjoyments. ' But except those who try a country life have some resources within themselves productive of amusement and agreeable occu- pation, the want of society will often cause such a life to feel dull. Mere walking or riding to preserve or improve health is frequently irksome, and should therefore be con- nected with some object. The study of some of the numerous branches of natural history will present an inexhaustible field for agreeable observation. Tlie operations of gardening are to some highly amusing; but the cultivation of plants will prove doubly interesting- to enlarged and inquiring minds, if they add to it some acquaintance with vegetabl-e physiology and the theory of agriculture. The resources afforded by reading are well known; but it is not so generally understood how much pleasure is derivable from the power of drawing and painting, nor how much the arts of design unveil to their votaries- innumerable beauties in nature. 6. Very large estates are commonly subdivided into farms, or portions, which are let off at certain rents to cultivators, with a view of producing income to the proprietor. In this case, he may either have a residence or demesne on the estate, or he may live elsc- ■where. 7. The management of a farm, which includes agriculture and all the arts connected with it, forms a subject of vast extent and importance ; and will be best studied in works devoted to that object, such as "Loudon's Encyclopedia of Agriculture." 8. The choice of a situation fur a demesne on a large estate must depend upon numerous local circumstances; for though it might appear that the centre of the estate holds out most advantages, yet these may be more than counterbalanced by others, depending upon soil, aspect, roads, picturesque api)earance of the country, ueighbourhood, &c. 9. With respect to climnic, there can be no doubt that upon the whole a temperate cli- mate is best; but the degree of temperature best suited to particular individuals must depend upon their constitution, feelings, and habits. Between the northern and southera parts of Mritain there is a considerable difference in the clinuite. Tlie south coast of Bri- tain is allowed to enjoy milder winters than any other part, and is therefore much resorted to by invalids, or those whose constitutions demand a mild air. On the contrary, some prefer a residence in a mountainous district, where the bracing atmosphere invigo- rates the system. Before determining ou a |)articular part of the country to settle in, it would be well to visit it at various seasons of the year; for nothing can be more different than a mountainous region, a plain, and even the sea coast, at different seasons. 10. The healthiness of the situation is the most important consideration of all in fixing on a s])ol to reside in. This depends upon the air, dryness or dampness, soil and exposure, tlie vicinity of various objects, character of the surface, &c. Regard must like- wise be had to the constitution of the occupier. In ancient times, the necessity of defence caused the dwellings of the wealthy to be strong-holds built upon the tops of hills, where