Book XXV. THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 1180 CHAP. VII. PIGS AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. 6987. Pigs are not very agreeable to have about a house; and it is therefore desir- able that they should be kept out of sight as much as possible, which can only be done ■where there is some kind of yard. Where cows are kept, it is generally found conve- nient to have also some pigs. It is well known that the most delicate pork is that produced by feeding pigs on milk and whey from the dairy, with meal; and that it is much superior to any that can be had from the butcher. Nevertheless, if any inex- perienced person should set about feeding his pigs for his table, the pork might prove very expensive : and this branch of domestic economy requires some little skill. Even in a farm, hogs are generally considered rather as a subordinate species of live stock, and chiefly valuable as consuming what would otherwise be lost: there is one advantage which this animal has, which is, that his keep usually costs little, and is not attended with mach trouble to those accustomed to them. 6988. There are various breeds of swine, and some fatten more readily upon the same food than others; and the breeds vary considerably in their size. Those which are reckoned the best of the small kind are the Berkshire and the small Essex, or the latter crossed by the Chinese. Of larger hogs, for bacon, the Hampshire, the Norfolk, and the Cheshire are the principal; and, as porkers, the Suffolk, Essex, and Oxfordshire, are among the best. The long-legged Irish pigs are considered to be the worst. 6989. In purchasing pigs for fottening, it is not always easy to procure the very best breeds : but some of the others may do very well. The sow should be at least ten months old before she is fit to breed from : she goes with young a little more than four months, and has often two litters in a year, generally producing a numerous progeny, consisting of from eight to sixteen at a litter. Hogs, when suffered to see the natural term of life, live from fifteen to thirty years. Their size and strength continue to improve till they are five or six years old. The best season for their farrowing is in the summer, as young pigs are exceedingly tender and difficult to rear in the cold of winter. 6990. Pigs are very troublesovie in cultivated grounds, ploughing them up with their snouts in search of wild roots of which they are fond. To prevent them from turning up the soil, the best method is to cut the two strong tendons of their snouts with a sharp knife, about an inch and a half from the nose; this may be done with little pain and no prejudice to the animal when about two or three months old. The common practice of restraining them by rings fixed in the snout is painful and troublesome : these must be replaced as often as they give way, and that happens so frequently that rings afford little security against this nuisance. 6991. The piggery should be so situated as not to be offensive, and yet be easily supplied with food from the scullery and dairy. Each animal requires to have a separate sty, which should open into a little court or area for exercise, and to hold his feeding-trough. The large piggery erected by the Earl of Egremont is said to be one of the most complete in the kingdom. 6992. The pig-sty may be built of any convenient material: stone or brick are the bust. It should be dry and warm ; and for this purpose the floor is best paved with large stones, and should be raised a little above the ground, and slope a little towards a channel conduct- ing the wet into a drain leading to a cess-pool or manure tank : one of the usual defects of pig-sties is the neglect of proper drainage. The roof may be thatched with straw, reeds, heath, or any other warm material. Every piggery should have a rubbing-post for the animals to clean themselves against. When circumstances permit the pigs to have access to a field or an orchard or wood, where they can find fruits and vegetables of various kinds, it is of great advantage to their health. 6993. When a sow is expected to forrow, she should be separated from the rest, and littered down with a small quantity of dry short straw ; but if too much straw is used when she has young, the latter are apt to nestle under it and be smothered by the dam. Sows should likewise be carefully watched for some days after farrowing, as they are apt to eat their offspring : she ought to be well fed while nursing. The young pigs are gene- rally weaned at the end of six or seven weeks : and, when sows are weaning, they ought to be kept low and allowed to wallow in wet, as they are at that time very subject to a milk fever. G9n4. Cleanliness shnutd lie observed as nmcli as possible xeilh respect to pigs, nltliongh it is nn opinion not iniconinion ainoni some countrv people tliat chnnging tlip litler nu<\ cle-winR tlie styes protrm t the time or tlie imimiil's arriving at his reniih eil degree of fatness : ami thai tilth contributes to his health ami prospi rlty. This opinion is Inlly emitradicted liy experiment. Although pigs in general are not cle.in in their usual l.ablts, yet few domestic aiiiiiials arc more pleaseJ when llicy liavc clean comforublc beds, and cerUunly nono