. ]hap. I. 109 CHEMICAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. wersons, therefore, -were confined in a room 30 feet long, 25 broad, and 30 high, the whole liir in that apartment, consisting of 22,500 cubic feet, unless renewed, would be noxious i:jid dangerous to breathe in about four hours and a half. Is it wonderful, then, that ■rrowded rooms, heated and close, where routs and assemblies are held, theatres, and other ilaces of public amusement, and even churches, should be so pernicious to the health of -hose who frequent them, where proper ventilation is neglected ? For besides the iiiestruction of oxygen, or vital air, the great increase of carbonic acid gas, together with iihe noxious efHuvia from other causes, tend to vitiate the air in a very great degree, iThe additional deterioration of the air, produced by many lights, will be alluded to iifterwards. 489. From our having stated that it is the oxygen alone which supports life in respiration, ir.nd that air, deficient in oxygen, is unhealthy, it may perhaps be supposed that an ititmosphere of pure oxygen, or one having more than its usual quantity, would be '[•minently salubrious. This, however, is not the case; an increase of the usual 'jroportion of this gas, which can be artificially given, is found to give too strong a stimulus to the system, and fever would be the result : we should in fact burn out too woon, like a wooden splinter in a jar of oxygen. 490. Health demands that the usual and natural proportion in the constituents of air should ve neither increased nor dinmiished, except in a very minute degree; and by the most irvonderful contrivance of Providence, the proportion is preserved nearly the same, at all rimes and in all places, as we have already stated. And here we may perhaps be excused Tobr departing for an instant from what is strictly our subject, to point out a remarkable inroof of wise design. The carbonic acid, produced by combustion of all kinds, and by lihe respiration of animals, and which might in time vitiate the whole atmosphere, is consumed by the vegetable creation, to which it serves as a pabulum or food, in the same manner as oxygen does to animals. Nay, more ; vegetables, at the same time that they iiittract and retain carbonic acid, give out, in sunshine, pure oxygen gas. Thus vegetables iimprove the atmosphere when it has been deteriorated by animals. But notwithstanding the consumption of oxygen, or the vital principle of the air, by cjombustion and respiration, and its rapid abstraction in confined apartments and other solaces in-doors, this is not so considerable as to affect the general atmosphere, or the air ii)ut of doors, very sensibly: still we know from the above reasoning that it must suffer r'rom the above processes, were it not renewed. 491. When atmospheric air was first discovered to be composed of oxygen and nitrogen, imd that the former was the principal supporter of life, it was very naturally supposed that bhe air of those countries which were known to be very healthy, would be found, upon analysis, to contain more than the usual proportion of oxygen ; and, on the contrary, that bhose which were unhealthy would be deficient in that principle. Upon making careful experiments, however, with aview to determine whether thiswas the case, the result didnot porove it; for portions of air being taken from the open fields, from hills, from the sea side, frrom towns, even from prisons, were examined, and the proportion of oxygen was found to Kie the same in all. It is evident, then, that the salubrity or insalubrity of air out of doors ddoes not depend upon the proportions of the elementary principles, oxygen and nitrogen, Ikhey being the same every where, but rather upon the absence or addition of some other innvisible substances, some of which may be of a highly deleterious nature. Thus, carbonic aacid, sulphuretted hydrogen, or carburetted hydrogen, may abound, or even some other p^aseous matters; or unknown vapours may be mingled through the air of particular places, rt-endering them unhealthy. It is well known that some of these noxious gases are dis- eengaged from marshes, stagnant waters, common sewers, and all places where animal or v«^egetable substances are in a state of putrefaction; and other deadly poisons may be diffused tbhrough the atmosphere, which the skill of the chemist does not enable him to detect. 492. The subject (f ventilation is not confined to the dwelling-house alone, but extends to ikhe air of cities and towns. It is scarcely necessary to allude to the innumerable sources nsf deleterious vapours, exhalations, odours, and gases, that are constantly generated in cijities where there is a deficiency in sewers, pavements, water, and general habits of order aand cleanliness. This subject, fortunately, has attracted much attention, and we may be i3xcused for not pointing out many facts that are now beginning to be pretty generally kknown ; but the subject is too important to be entirely passed over. History informs us, ihhat pestilence, the scourge of society, has prevailed frequently and virulently in ages, i-countries, and even districts, in which cleanliness and the proper ventilation of houses iihave been little considered. Without entering on the various theories respecting the •■exciting causes of pestilential disease, a little research will aflord suflicient proof, that 'want of cleanliness has been a principal cause of their aggravation and rapid diffusion, ilf we read the account of our own metropolis during the last calamitous visitation of the iPlague, in 1665, and compare it with its present state, we may convince ourselves that "Our present exemption from the recurrence of such an evil is secured to us on more egrounds than those of precautionary laws of quarantine. At that period in the history of