864 HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. Book XIL should devolve in every possible case on gentlemen rather than on ladies, who on their l)art should be disengaged, and ready to sustain and direct the conversation of the com- pany. Tliis order of the table is now universal; gentlemen are the carvers, except in those families already noticed, in which the carving is done at the side tables, by the principal attendants. Carving should not be considered as confined to the cutting up, according to certain rules, the difi'erent joints and dishes, but as consisting also in a judicious distribution of the same. To carve neatly is an economical as well as an agree- able art; a truth evident to those who have seen good joints of meat so hacked and cut to pieces as to afl'ord scarcely half the supply of slices which, in the hands of skilful carvers, they would have yielded. 4875. The carving knife should be of good steel, capable of having its sharp edge renewed ; for unless it be sharp, to carve well would be impossible; neither should it be heavy to handle. The haft should be firmly grasped, though in carving strength is not in many cases so necessary as skill and a good knife, especially if all joint bones be pro- perly dislocated by the butcher. The dish must not be too distant from the carver, or the arms will be too much extended, which will give an awkward appearance to the person, and render the task before him less easy in its accomplishment SuBSECT. 2 Directions for Carning. 4876. Fish should be carved with a fish trowel, by which the flakes may be separated without being broken. 4877. In a cod's head and shoulders the first piece may be taken off, a, fig. 766., in the ^ « K- direction of a h, by putting in the fish trowel ■P Fie. 766. ^^Ijg 1^^^^ jjjg thick part of the fish : other slices may be taken ofif in a similar di- rection. A small portion of the sound should be given with each slice; it will be found lying close to the back bone, on raising the thin flap, d, and known by its being trans- parent, and of a darker colour than other parts of the fish. Almost every part of a cod's head is considered as good eating; such as the palate, tongue, and the jellied as well as the firm parts, e e, upon and immediately around the jaws and bones of the head. The green jelly of the eye alone is never eaten. 4878. In a piece of boiled salmon, fig. 767., the under part is richer and fatter than the upper and thick parts of the fish: a slice of each is usually sent on each plate. The slice from the thick part is taken in the line a b, and the thin slice in the direction d c. The skin is always sent with each slice, both of which must be cut thin. 4879. In turbot the fish trowel is to be entered at the head, and passed along the Fig. 767. back bone to the tail; the slices are then taken from the back boue to the fins on each side, those from the centre being considered as prime. When the upper side is thus disposed of, the back bone must be lifted up with the fork, and the under part divided in the same manner. Of Uie fins, the most prized parts of the fish, a portion is given with each slice. 4880. Mackerel is usually slit down the back, and the whole side taken off at once, with the exception of the part near the gills, which is generally black and ill flavoured. The tail end of this fish is by some considered the choice part, the middle pieces by others. With the exception of cod and carp, the palate of which last-mentioned fish is esteemed as a great delicacy, the heads of fish are seldom liked. The roe of the male mackerel is soft; that of the female hard and full of eggs. . ~ , • , .4881. Eels are cut into pieces through the bone, the thickest pieces of which are con- sidered as the best. . i i 4882. Of the lobster the tail is thought to be the prime part; the claws rank next "4883. Carving poultry and game require more practice and skill than any other dishes which are brought to table. » •„ Foivb, cither rousted or boiled, whichever way they are dressed, are cut up >Y''"v?Tn manner. The fork {two-pronged) is fixed firmly into the breast, on each side of which a cut is made the whole lenftth of the fowl, and parallel with the legs and wings. The wings are taken off in the direction a and b,fig. 768., by dividing the joint with the knife, and drawing it away with the fork. After cutting the ligaments at the joint of the leg c the bone may be easily twisted out of the socket, and removed from the body of the towi.