702 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIIL identity of vegetation, there eannot be a doubt of success in introducing the cultivation of tea, with the strongest probability of all its properties remaining unimpaired. Under Lord AVilliam Bentinck, a comuiittee was formed, in 1834, for the purpose of studying the subject, and attempts, partly successful, were made to visit the tea districts of China, in order to collect information, from which sanguine hopes were entertained that in many parts of India tea might be raised in considerable quantity. 4026. Bui attention was turned vwre particularly to this object by the discovery in 1834 that the tea plant was indigenous in Upper Assam, a district lliat had lately been coiuniereil from the Burmese, and which adjoins the Chinese province of Yunnan, where tea is cidtivated. Mr. Bruoe, Mr. Wallich, and Mr. Grif- fiths, eminent Ijotanists, were commissioned by the government of India to explore this country, and their report confirmed the accounts that had been given. The tea plant was found growing wild through an extent of thirty or forty miles in Assam, and was used by some of the native triljcs. Accordingly, active steps were talsen for forming experiments on a consideral)le scale to cultivate tea in this district; and the result appears to promise ultimate success. The wild tea shrubs llourish in Assam in woods or jungles, where'they are protected by the larger trees, and appear to prel'er a moist situation. Some of these jungles have been converted into tea plantations, by clearing away much of the trees, and planting branches of the tea slirubs. Some native Chinese have likewise been procured, who are conversant with the manner of gathering and preparing the leaves for use. Samples of Assam tea have been sent to this country ; and having been placed in the hands of several public bodies and private individuals, they have been reported favourably upon ; there is, therefore, every prospect that, in tiie course of time, a considerable supply may be obtained from this source. It does not appear easy at i>resent to compare this tea with that of China, on account of the novelty of the discovery, which will require much experience to render very available. The tea, although evidently the genuine plant, does not appear to correspond exactly with any of the Chinese teas, whether from some slight dif- ference in the cultivation of the shrub, or in the curing of the leaves, but it is said to be most analogous to souchong; of course the quality must vary, like the teas of China. The specimens yet imported, having been considered chiefly as objects of experiment and curiosity, and consequently sold at a high price, it is impossible as yet to form an idea of how far this acquisition may render us independent of China ; time and much experience will be necessary to solve this problem. In the meantime the circumstance is highly interesting, particularly since Assam is a hilly country, where the climate is excellent and temperate, and possesses a great variety of beautiful and picturesque situations. Several varieties of the silkworm are like- wise f(}und indigenous in it. 4027. Manii attempts have been made by other European nations to eullinate the tea plant in their colonies, with the assistance of Chinese labourers, but hitherto without much profitable result. The difficulty pro- bably does not consist so much in finding a suitable soil and climate, as from the high price of human labour, and the great trouble and expense of collecting and preparing the leaves. Tea has been cultivated in Brazil, Carolina, Louisiana, and Rio Janeiro ; and the Dutch have grown a good deal in Java. '102R. Tlie cultivation of the tea plant in England is perhaps not likely to be attended with any advantage further than as a matter of curiosity. Both the green and black tea plants have been grown m England. The gricen tea plants are more hardy than the black in this climate, being kept out in the open air with little protection during the winter, as at Kew, and Messrs. Loddiges, and even as far north as Forfar. The black tea plant is more tender, and is unable to stand unprotected the cold of an English climate. The leaves of the green tea plant grown in England are larger than those of the black tea. Sect. IX. PLANTS EMPLOYED AS SUBSTITUTES FOR TEA. 4029. Various plants are employed in different countries as a substitute for the tea tree of China. In New Granada, they use Alstonia theqformis, said to be equal to the Chinese tea; in North Ameria, Gaiillheria pro- cumbens and Ilex Gongunha ; in Mexico, Psoralen glanriulosa ; in New Holland, Correa alba ; in Kamts- chatka, Pedicularis limala. The leaves o{ Lantana marrophylla are said by Martius to atford an infusion that has exhilarating properties, and which is dnmk as an exciting beverage in Brazil. 4030. Of these perhaps the nuist remarkable is the Ilex Paraguensis, or tea tree of Paraguay, nearly peculiar to that country, and called there Ycrva matd, the latter term being the name of a p.irticuhir kind of tea-pot, from the spout of which with a strainer the hot infusion is imbibed. This tree grows wild, and in great abundance in the den,se forests in the northern and eastern parts of Paraguay, and is an evergreen about the size-of the common orange tree, the leaf not unlike that of Chinese tea. There is also a better sort, called caamine produced by the Jesuit mission from cultivating the wild sort. When the leaves are gathered, they aredried at the fire, and packed into hide bags containing 200 lbs. each. The use of this beverage appears to have been known to the aboriginal inhabitants, .and to have been commimic.ited to the Spaniards. It is not only employeil in Paraguay, where it is in universal use, but it is transported to La Plata, Peru, Quito, and Chill; in short all over the countries in America formerly belonging to Spain, where the inh.ibit.ints .ire parsmn- ately fond of it, and drink it at all hours of the day. Some mix sugar with it; others lemon juice ; .and it is said that five millions of pounds are .mnnally produced in Paraguay. It appears to h.ave a sed.ative olToct, and like substances of this kind, produces b.aneful effects, if too much indulged in. Kotzebue sUtcs that it is used in Chili alone to the amount of 1,000,000 dollars .annually. . , , . 4031 Sevcr.al British plants have been recommended as substitutes for tea, particularly in cases where the Chinese did not agree with the constitution; sage, balm, and mint have been employed. Dr. Withering recommends the leaves of the diffiTent species of rose trees, and of black thorn, which, when dried, he esteems one of the best substituti s for tea that h.is yet been tried ; he observes, that the first tender lp.ives of the whortle berries ( Vaccinium wyriilhis) can scarcely be distinguished from real tea, when properly gathered, and dried in the sh.ade. None of tliese, however, can be said to h.tve all the properties of tea ; and they are too imperfectly known to be depended upon. Sect. X. USE OF TEA IN DIFFERENT NATIONS. 4032 This leverage has been used by the Chinese from time immemorial In the reign of the emperor Fitzong, who ascended the throne in the year of Christ 724, or above eleven centuries a"-o, tea was subjected to a tax, which the Chinese historians inform us was loudly complained of by the people as a grievous oppression because it fell on a " vccessnni of life" We have a distinct notice of the use of tea in China by the Arabian travellers W'ahat and Abuzaid, who visited that country a.d. 851.