749 MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. Chap. II. spoonfuls of bran to a pint of yeast; water is then added sufficient to malte the dough, and the wliole is strained tlirnngh a sieve. The Hour of tlie bran increases tlie fermentative power of the yeast; and if the latter be rather flat, it may be still farther assisted by using swcetwort to dilute it with instead of water. If no sweetwort is at hand, a little may be easily prepared thus : Simmer gently over the fire for a quarter of an hour, three or four table spoonfuls of ground malt in a pint and a half of water, adding a table spoonful of brown sugar or honey; keep the mixture for a few hours on the hob, and then strain it. Yeast -when kept for a few hours after skimming shrinks into one-fourth of the space ■which it occupied at first; and then it is called by bakers solid yeast, frequently mentioned in books on this subject. A sack of flour generally requires from three to four pints of solid yeast. If yeast should happen to be a little sour, which it will sometimes, particularly in country places, there can be no harm in correcting this by carbonate of soda. SuBSECT. 6.— Water. 4262. Water in bread-making is made use of not merely to wet the flour, but also to pro- mote the chemical action of the various principles on each other, which in the dry state would remain passive. 4263. The increase in the weight of bread above that of the flour and the other solid in- gredients employed is remarkable, and proves that a large portion of water has combined with the principles of the flour, chiefly with the starch; but a part of the water is ex- pelled by the heat of the oven, and another portion is evaporated as the bread becomes stale. A large quantity, however, remains fixed, and we must suppose it to be in a state of chemical combination with other principles in the bread. One himdred weight of flour will make 144 lbs. of bread weighed immediately as it comes out of the oven, and if the flour be very good, 150 lbs.; but'in 36 hours the same bread wiU only weigh 139 lbs. The better and older the flour the more water it will absorb and retain ; but fifteen pounds of good wheaten flour ought not to be made to absorb above ten pounds of water in dough, which will produce about twenty pounds of baked bread. In general,'one fifth of the weight of bread consists of water and salt. SUBSEGT. 7. — Salt. 4264. Salt is always used in bread-making, not only on account of its flavour, to destroy the insipid raw taste of the flour, but it is thought to make the dough rise better. Salt is used either by mixing it at first with the flour, or by dissolving it in the water. A sack of flour made into bread will require on an average five pounds of salt. SuBSECT. 8. — Assize of Bread. 4265. Owing to the vast importance of this necessary of life, it has been thought proper in most countries to subject its manufacture to certain regulations. Ever since 1266, in the reign of Henry 111., the price .it which bread should be sold had been determined from time to time by the magistrates, according to the current price of corn, which was called setting the assize. But in 1815 this was abolished by the legislature in London and its environs, and though the power to set an assize in other parts of the country still subsists, it is seldom acted upon, and has fallen into comparative disuse. According to the assize acts, a sack of flour weighing 280 lbs. is supposed to be capiible of being baked into eighty quartern loaves; one-fifth of each loaf is supposed to consist of water and salt, and four-fifths of flour. The number of loaves which may be pro- duced from a sack of flour depends upon its quality; good flour requires more water than bad flour, and old than new ; something depends also upon the management of the baker. Sometimes more loaves than eighty, even as far as eighty-six, may be m.ade from a sack of flour, and sometimes the number will fall short of eighty. By the assize acts, bakers were restricted to bake only three kinds of bread, viz. wheaten, made of the finest Qour ; standard wheaten, of the whole flour mixed ; and household, of the coarsest flour. The loaves are the peck loaf, weighing 17 lbs. 602.; the half peck, weighing 8 lbs. 11 oz.; and the quartern, 4 lbs. 5^ oz. avoirdupois. 4206. The following is an abstract of the last bread act (5 & 6 William IV. c.37.), entitled " An Act to repeal the several Acts now in force relating to Bread to be sold out of the City of London and the Weekly Bills of Mortality ; and for the more elTectually preventing the Adulteration of Bread, Meal, and Flour." Bakers may make and sell bread made of wheat, barley, rye, oats, buckwheat, Indian corn, peas, beans, rice, or potatoes, or any of them, along with common salt, pure water, eggs, milk, barm, leaven, and mixed in any proportions they may choose. " Bread may be made of any size and weight. Bread to be sold by weight, and in no other manner (French rolls and fancy bread excepted). Bakers to use avoirdupois weiglit, of sixteen ounces to the pound, and no other. Penalty for using false weights .5/. Bakers delivering bread bv cart, &c. to be ^lro- vided with scales arid weights. Bakers convicted of adulterating bread by using any otner ingredient besides those above mentioned, are liable to a penalty of 10/. and to have their names and abodes .advertised in the newsp,aper8. Penalty for adulterating flour, meal, &c. 20/. Bread made of any other grain but wheat to bo marked with the letter M. Magistrates and peace oflScers, by warrant, m.iy search baker's premises, and seize and carry away adulterated bread and flour. Pen.alty for obstructing search, &c. 10/. Ingredients for adulterating flour, meal, &c. being found on bakers' premises, subjects the oflender to a pen.alty of 10/., and the like sum for every subsequent oflence. Oflences occasioned by the wilful default of journeymen bakers subjects them to fine or imprisonment. Bakers not to bake bread or rolls on Sundays, or follow any part of their trade, except setting sponge for next day's baking ; but bakings may be delivered to customers until hair.past one o'clock, and not later, on Sundays, under the penalty of 20s. No baker, mealman, or miller, to act as a magistrate under this act, under a penalty of 100/. One h.alf of each penalty to go to the in- former (and 3j. extra on Sundays for his expenses), and the other moiety to the overseer, or other parochial officer.