Book VII. ON FOOD. keeping than lite hog. It Is naturally indolent and filthy in its habits; yet, perhaps, no domestic animals are more pleased with a clean and comfortable stye, and on none is the advantage of cleanliness more obvious in making them thrive. The kind of food given to swine has a very great influence on the quality of the fJesL. Skimmed milk and peas, oats and barley meal, rank first in excellence as food for making delicate pork. Milk ■will fatten pigs entirely without the addition of any other substance,—a practice some- times followed in the dairies; and milk-fed pork is the most delicate of any. Corn-fed pork is next in value ; peas, oats, and barley, being the best adapted grain. Pork fed on beans is hard and ill-flavoured; that which is fed entirely on grains has the fat spongy ; fei-mented grains and the must of cyder render the hogs bloated, and liable to fits of the gout, from being kept in a state of constant intoxication. Potatoes make a light insipid flesh ; hence the Irish pork and bacon is inferior to the English, and the market price is in proportion. Oil cakes make a flesh little better than carrion ; and butchers' offal causes the pork to be full of gravy, but to have a disgusting strong taste and smell. For bacon and flitches, the hogs aj-e fattened on purpose, and then their food will depend on the circumstances of their owners. In breweries and distilleries, grains, and in dairies, buttermilk, form the chief part of their food: with farmers, the food is turnips, potatoes, grains, and whatever happens to be the produce of the farm. Compared with the general consumption of pork, the real dairy-fed meat bears a very small proportion, and the sale of it in the metropolis is in very few hands, and always commands a superior price. Round the forests in England, it is the custom to drive the pigs in at the proper season, that they may feed on acorns and various kernels, which fall from the trees, is said that the Westphalia hams owe much.of their excellence to a similar practice The astringent property of acorns may perhaps harden the flesh, and communicate peculiar flavour. 1853. Of all animal food, pork takes salt best, and preserves best: hence its great use ia naval stores. A smaller quantity of salt will keep it than any other meat; it acquires saltness more slowly than any other; and with the sara-e degree of saltness it remain succulent and sapid. 18.'i4. T/ie hog is n very prolific animal, and of very rapid grovlh, consequently no other article of fles pi*ovision can be raised and prepared for market so soon and at so little expense as pork: in consequence, must be materially Instrumental in the production of plenty, and in restraining the exorbitant price of t first necessaries. A remarkable instance of the fecundity of these animals occurred in this country lately. A sow belongin to Mr. Thomas Rishdale, Kegworth, Leicestershire, had produced in tlie year 1797 three hundred and lift five young ones in twenty litters. Leicestershire, Northamptonshire, and Hampshire, are famous for hogs, which seems o\ring to their bcin clayey counties, where much peas and beans are sown. The Western pigs, chiefly of Berks, Oxford, an Bucks, make excellent liacon and hams : but the pork of Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk, is smallest and mo delicate for roasting, &c. The demand for porkers in London, which is very great, and continued throughou the year, is chiefly supplied from the dairies within reach of the metropolis ; but the winter months are the principal for pork or pig meat. Swine for pork are killed at from six to twelve months old. 1855. This animal affords a preparation called brawn, cannot be made from any other. It consists chiefly of the adipose membrane, or that which contains the fat, rolled up and closely compressed, so that much of the oil is squeezed out, while the cellular texture remains so closely united as to form a semi-transparent substance. It is very nutritive for those persons whose stomachs can dissolve it. 1856. Sucking-pigs are killed when about three weeks old. They are fattened with milk and whey, with the addition of barley meal. By some persons their flesh is consi- dered as a great delicacy; by others, it is found to be too luscious ; it is very nutritive, but not so readily dissolved in the stomach as might be supposed. They may be had in London all the year round; but are not reckoned wholesome in hot weather. Sect. V. Deek (Cervus, Linn.). 1857. The old huntsmen called the flesh of every animal that was hunted, venison; but with us, this term is restricted to animals of the deer kind. In the hunter state of society, men chiefly subsisted on the produce of the chase; they lived much upon venison, which is certainly not only a delicious, but a nutritive and wholesome food. Fallow deer is, upon the whole, the best, though the flesh of the wild stag is the highest flavoured, and very palatable in autumn, when it is in its most perfect state. 1858. Tltere are three species of deer in this country : the stag; the roe ; and the fallow or common deer. 1859. The stag, or red deer {Cervus Elephas, Linn.), is the largest of our deer tribe. It i? found in nearly alt the temperate countries of Europe, particularly the wooded part.* of Germany ; it is also met with in Asia and North America, but attains its largest size in