Book XXII. 1098 ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. Bright scarlet requires to be dipped in water containing a few drops of a solution of muriate of tin. In cleaning silks of various colours, the water should be barely hot enough to extract the dirt, and it is better to give them a second and a third liquor than to use the water too hot. It should be observed that, without considerable skill, the colours of silks are liable to be discharged; and upon the whole, it is safest to give these to a professed scourer. 6553. White lace veils are cleaned by boiling them for a quarter of an hour in a solu- tion of white soap. They must then be gently squeezed till clean, and rinsed in warm water, and afterwards in cold water, containing a drop or two of liquid blue. The veil must be starched and cleared by clapping it between the hands, and then dried on a frame or by pinning out. 6554. Black lace veils are cleaned by passmg them through some warm water with bullock's gall, and then rinsing in cold water. ' They are stiffened by dipping them into water that has a little gum or glue dissolved in it, clapped between the hands, and dried as the last. 6555. Point lace, if it be not very much soiled, may be cleaned by fixing it in a tent frame, and rubbing it gently with crumbs of bread, afterwards dusting out the crumbs. If it is necessary to wash it, fix it in the tent frame, make a warm lather of Castile soap, and dipping a soft brush in this, rub the whole gently. Afterwards throw over it some clean water, in which a little alum is dissolved. The wrong side is then to be gone over with some fine thin starch, and when dry, the same side must be ironed. It is to be finished by opening it with a bodkin, or otherwise it may be cleaned as directed under " Washing." 655C. Cashmere shawls and Merinoes may be cleaned by passing them through cold water, having in it some solution of soap in spirits of wine and purified ox-gall, and then through alum-water. They may be stretched and starched as the lace. 6557. To clean silk stockings. — Wash the stockings in luke-warm water, with white soap, to get out the rough dirt; then boil them with soap and water for ten minutes, rinse them in clean water, and wash them again with fine soap, if necessary ; if required to have a blue cast, put into the last water a little stone blue in a flannel bag, taking care not to give the stockings too strong a tinge of colour; if required to be of a flesh colour, a little rose pink will do. Dry them, and to smoothe them, put them on (vooden legs, two at a time, one over the other, observing that the outsides are face to face; then polish them with a glass, or send them to be calendered or mangled. 6558. To scour wool. —Wool in its natural state is covered with a kind of grease called the yolk, whicli, as it is found to preserve it from insects or moths, is not removed by scouring till it is to be dyed or spun. The process for scouring wool is this : — the wool is put for about a quarter of an hour into a kettle of water, to which some soap or alkali, or what is better, about a fourth of stale urine, has been added. It is then heated to 140°, occasionally stirred, and, being taken out, is allowed to drain. It is next put into a basket, and exposed to a stream of running water, and moved about till the grease is so com- pletely separated, that it no longer renders the water turbid. If the wool is intended for dyeing, this process must be very carefully performed. The mode in which the urine acts in scouring is explained thus : — urine, left to itself for a few days, is found to contain a portion of the volatile alkali, or ammonia; this combines with the oil in the wool, and forms a soap, which, being soluble in water, is dissolved and carried oflf. When wool is required to be perfectly white for dyeing, it is sulphurised; and the harsh feel given by this is removed by washing with soap. 6559. The scouring of blankets being heavy work, the instrument called a dolly, or maid, is sometimes employed to lessen the manual labour, in heating and wringing them (see fig. 835.). Its use is to beat the blankets, counterpanes, and such heavy articles, in the tub with water and soap to clean them. To prepare the water for scouring, cut a pound of mottled or of yellow soap into thin slices, and dissolve it in a gallon of boiling water, adding an ounce of pearlash or of soda. When the soap is quite dissolved, mix the solution with a quantity of cold water, to make it only so hot that the hand can bear it. Put this with the blanket into the scouring tub, which must have a very strong or double bottom, and beat it with the doll, turning it frequently. After it is thoroughly cleaned, the next operation is to wring out the soap and water. This being difficult to do by the hands alone may be assisted by hanging up the blanket till the two ends meet, and, fixing this to a hook in the wall, pass a short thick stick through the fold; by means of this the blanket can be twisted iind wrung out very hard. In London, blankets are usually sent to the scourers ; few town houses having sufficient convenience for this business to be performed at home. But laundresses sometimes undertake them. • , , • 6560. A counterpane may be scoured in the same manner. If the colour is bad, it will be necessary to boil it in a copper, and in beating it with the dolly to add a little liquid blue.