Chap. III. FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES WITH PERCHES. 1113 ■ -windows, and a sword case, drag, and chain. So many conveniences are useful, because : it is not uncommon in some countries to be obliged to carry portable tables and stools, 1 beds and beddings, together with some cooking and other utensils. For persons who • wish to lie at full length, the front panel can be taken out, and a boot added at the bottom 1 of the body to stretch the legs and feet into ; this is termed a dormeitse. A chain, shoe, : and staflF, are likewise necessary on a journey. The chain is to lock one of the wheels, : to check the velocity in going down a hill. The shoe is to put under the wheel, and the ■ staff is to stop the carriage, to give a rest to the horses on ascending a hill. The chain ; is fixed to the middle of the perch, and is covered with leather, to prevent it from rattling. A box with some necessary tools should never be omitted, in case of an accident; such . as a wrench, hammer, chisel, saw, pincers, a few bolts, nuts and screws, &c. 6635. A light travelling chariot may be put upon elliptic springs without a perch : but I particular care should be taken that the body is well secured by iron plates, as in that I case these alone will connect the fore with the hind carriage. This will not be so easy ; a vehicle as when hung with C springs, X braces, and will require very smooth roads. 6636. T7ie post-chaise is of the same general form as the. travelling chariot, but, being ^ intended for quick travelling, is built light; and to render it still lighter there is no coach ; box, the driver sitting on one of the horses. 6637. The phaeton of the end of last century was a very lofty, open, four-wheeled carriage, 'with a jointed h.QdA,fig. 858.; it had a very showy appearance, but from its preposterous height, was far from being safe, whence probably its appellation from the fabled car of the son of Apollo. It was for some time much in fashion, and was a fa- vourite driving carriage of George IV. when Prince of Wales, and also of Sir John Lad, and other whips of the time. There were several varieties of greater or less elevation, and consequently hazard to the driver: but we give in fig. 859. a re- presentation of the crane- necked phaeton, with iron perches, from Fulton's work " On Carriages," with a view to show the absurdity of the taste of those days, and the improvement that has taken place since in carriage building. It was considered, from its .(Comparative lightness and elevation above the dust of the roads, to be an improvement' on former vehicles, and safer than those with two wheels ; but this lofty construction has now gone entirely out of use, in consequence of the numerous accidents, often fatal, which occurred. Fig. 859. represents a peich phaeton, not long since made ; somewhat after the old fashion, but much reduced in height. 17 6638. Hie modern phae- 7 ton, fig. 860., bears scarcely A any resemblance to the / fashionable vehicle of for- mer times, but is one of the simplest forms of four- wheeled carriages in ordi- nary use. " It is," says Adams, " literally a long box and locker for luggage, usually painted black, with an arm-chair and hood in front, and a bench behind; an arch in the locker is usually contrived to permit the fore- wheel to pass beneath, and thus allow it to be much higher." The body rests on four cross springs, whose ends are suspended from four side springs placed across the axles. These springs are connected at the ends by links called shackles, as in the ordinary stage coaches, which, if not properly constructed, are apt to occasion a jingling noise. Some have substituted leathern braces instead of them. By those who like to drive themselves, the body with the driving head is placed in front, as in the wood-cut; and