PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1214 Book XXVL 7163. Hooping cough.—MeLuy children escape hooping cough, -whereas few persons pass through hfe without having laboured under scarlatina and measles. In the present dis- ease the child for some days seems to be affected -with severe cough and cold ; by degrees the cough takes on the hooping character; there are a series of little coughs which exhausts the breath, and consequently the succeding inspiration is along one; and on account of certain structures being in a state of spasmodic contraction, a peculiar sound is produced ; that is, hooping. During the coughing the child's face becomes very red : the child seems struggling for breath, and as if it would be suffocated ; but in a moment or two after the hoop is out, it is often running about as if nothing were the matter with it. The contents of the stomach are often discharged during tlie cough. Although hooping cough is not a dangerous disease, it may become so at any time ; in every case there is more or less inllammation of certain parts in the chest. This may become aggravated, or the head may be affected, and inflammation of the brain result; or in young children convulsions may occur, and be very troublesome and alarming ; therefore early medical aid is always necessary. We shall not describe the treatment, as we are of opinion that medical men alone are competent to understand this disease, and to treat the different stages of it with advantage. In convulsions the warm bath should be used. During convalescence also a change of air is signally useful, after removing immediately the remnants of the cough, and producing a most beneficial influence on the general health. CHAP. ni. CIKCTJMSTAJNCES FAVOURABLE TO THE PRESERVATION OF GENERAL HEALTH IN THE FAJMILT. Sect. L DIET. 7164. As a general rule, the diet may have some variety; it must not be confined to one or two articles ; there should be a mixture of animal and vegetable food. With regard to kind and quality, appetite and taste point out the best course, but then appetite and taste must not be perverted by condiments and spices. 7165. T7ie hour of meals should be regular, and the meals themselves should not be more distant from each other than four or five hours ; after a meal no exercise should be taken for at least half an hour, or an hour, for if strong exercise be taken after a meal, the blood which would have been sent to the stomach, and from which the solvent fluid, the gastric juice, as it is called, would have been formed, is forced by the muscular contraction into other parts of the body ; the food remains undigested, causing a load and weight to be felt at the pit of the stomach, and in a few hours often producing headache, a sour taste is felt in the mouth, and sometimes sickness. In such a case, if the sickness continue, an emetic of ipecacuanha (fifteen grains of tlie powder) is the best thing, and this should be followed up in a few hours afterwards with an aperient mixture; but a short abstinence is preferable. 7166. With regard to the taking of liquids, cold water, the beverage provided by Nature, is the best that can be taken ; those who can be satisfied with this ought certainly to be thankful for it. Many persons accustom themselves, however, to take one or two glasses of wine every day, and in some instances, such a practice seems beneficial ; but if the quantity exceed this, the evils wliich tlie habit brings with it, in the long run, are not inconsiderable : the stomach appears to lose its power of secreting gastric juice without the ordinary stimulus ; a degree of inflammatory dyspepsia is produced, and if, as is often the case, tlic individual increases the quantity of wine in order to get rid of the unpleasant sensations which torment him, he increases at least in an equal ratio his digestive disorders. Such a state seldom remains long uncomplicated; various gravelly and other disorders occur, and render life miserable. 7167. All the cvihs which toinc produces are caused in a still greater degree by spirits; the most pernicious spirit is English gin, and one cannot be too thankful for any agency which seems to diminish in any degree, however slight, the consumption of spirits ; those ■who decry temperance societies should remember, that though total abstinence may not be needed in the middle classes, among the lower it is the onlt/ thing which rs likely to re- form them, for it is well known among medical men, that the chance of curing a disposi- tion to drink is much greater when the individual restricts himself to water alone, than when he allows himself in a degree the use of fermented or spirituous liquors. With regard to ale and porter, the same objections apply to these as to wine, though certainly with much less force ; porter is often adulterated with compounds which make