Book XIII. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 908 again without injuring it. Have a quick oven for it, and do not open it till the paste is nearly done, or it will fall. SuBSECT. 2.—Making Savoury Pies. 5228. Rump steak pie.—Cut three pounds of rump steak, sufficiently hung to he tender, into pieces about three or four inches in length ; trim off all skin and sinew, and beat the steaks well with the rolling-pin. Chop half a dozen eschalots very fine, and mix a tea- spoonful of black pepper and a teaspoonful of salt together ; spread on the bottom of the dish a layer of eschalot, and sprinkle it with the seasoning; on this spread a layer of meat, then the eschalot and seasoning, and fill the dish in this maniler ; pour over it a wine-glass of mushroom catsup, and the same quantity of beef gravy or of red wine. Cover it with a moderately thick crust, and bake for two hours. 5229. Beef steak pie with oysters. — Cut from a tender rump a thick steak of about three pounds weight. Fry it slowly in some of its own fat, of a nice brown. Beard three dozen oysters; reserve their liquor, which stir and mix with some beef gravy; distribute the beef and oysters into the pie-dish; season highly with black and cayenne pepper, but not too much salt. Put in part of the gravy, and cover it with a pretty thick crust of puff paste. Bake it slowly, and if more gravy be required, pour in the remainder some time before it is taken from the oven.—N.B. All meat pies should be done in a slow oven, for if they boil fast the meat will be rendered tough. 5230. Veal olive pie. — Cut off from a fillet of veal as many slices as the number of olives required; make them flat and smooth with the chopper, or by beating them once or twice with a rolling-pin. Rub each over with beaten yolk of egg; cut thin slices of fat bacon the same size as the veal; lay it on the veal; rub that with egg also: have a veal forcemeat ready (see " Forcemeat "), and spread it scantily over the bacon ; roU the whole up tight, and cover the surface with egg and bread-crumb. Line the pie-dish with paste, and put in the olives, covering them with some good gravy. Let it bake two hours; have a gravy ready thickened with cream and flour, and pour it into the pie before it is served. 5231. Ham Mid veal pie. — Cut some thick slices from a leg of veal, divide them into convenient pieces, and make an incision into each piece to introduce a thin slice of lean ham well seasoned. Put at the bottom of the pie-dish some light forcemeat, composed of the fat of the ham, beat with the panada herlDS and yolk of egg (see " Forcemeat"): make also some balls of the same, which poach and distribute between the layers. Add plenty of seasoning, pour in veal gravy, and cover the dish with a thick puff paste. Bake, and before it is done, introduce some additional gravy. In the same manner ham and chicken pie may be made ; but in the latter instance some cream should be worked into the veal gravy. 5232. Venison pasty is best made with the neck and breast of venison. Take out the bones and stew these with the trimmings in sufiicient beef stock, a bunch of parsley, green onions, and an eschalot; add two glasses of port wine. In this liquor, braise the pieces of venison till they are half done, when they are to be put into the pie-dish, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and allspice ; strain, and clear the gravy from fat; cover with a thick puff paste, and reserve some of the gravy to supply that which is consumed. A slice of raw ham considerably improves the flavour of this pasty. 5233. Mutton pie. — Cut into chops, trimmed neatly from all fat, off the best end of a neck or loin of mutton. Lay them in a dish and season them with pepper and salt; add a wine-glass of mushroom catsup, some chopped onion, and sliced potatoes ; cover it with a crust (see " Pastry "), and bake it for two hours. When done, lift up the crust, and pour out the gravy to cool, so as to remove the fat; then boil it up and pour it into the pie again. 6234. .Small mutton pasties Cut the paste the size of a mutton chop; season and shred some garlic over each, and if not very fat .idd a small piece of fresh to each. Cover them with the crust, and bake them in a moderately quick oven. These small pasties serve to make out a dinner, and are very relishing when nicely dressed. , . . 5235. Porlc pies Cut the meat left after trimming flitches that are being prepared for saltnig mto small pieces, togetlier with trimmings from the griskins, and the meat from the sweet bone. Kerp the fat and lean separate, and season both with pepper and salt; then raise the crust (see receipt for), and when ready fill tlie pics closely with layers of lean and fat, those of the lean being of greater depth than the fat layers. Unite the lids firmly to the sides, and bake the pies in a soaking oven, the meat being solid requiring this ; put no water or gravy into the pies. 5236. Babbit pie. — Stew in clarified butter some parsley, mushrooms, a table-spoonM of green onions chopped, and an eschalot minced ; when tender, put in a couple of rabbits properly divided, and let them stew about a quarter of an hour. Take them out, and put them into a raised earthen pie-dish, sheeted with paste. Drain the butter from the vegetables, and put them into the pie with plenty of seasoning and some veal gravy, or, •which is better, some gravy obtained from rabbits. Put a paste cover to the dish with a hole in the top, to suffer the steam to evaporate, and also to introduce some fresh gravy