Chap. IX. FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. 503 every cottage garden. The largest, and finest in appearance, are grown in Lancashire, ■where prizes are given for producing the largest; and the size of some shown upon these occasions is extraordinary, weighing an ounce or an ounce and a half. One gooseberry, exhibited in 1825, weighed 31 dwt. 16 grains; but the flavour of the very large sorts is inferior to that of the smaller kinds. 2783. It would appear that tlie flavour improves with the coldness of the climate, provided there be sulficient warmth to ripen them ; for those grown in Scotland as far north as Aberdeen, and even Inverness, are of superior flavour. 278-1. There are numerous varieties of this fruit. In Vol. I. Series II. of the Trans- actions of the Horticultural Society, there is an account of seventy sorts, selected from those fruited in the Society's garden, and which were reckoned to have a good flavour, many of the large kinds having been rejected, their size not compensating for their coarseness. Some of the Lancashire growers enumerate above 300 sorts. The varieties are formed into four divisions, according to their colour when ripe, red, yellow, green, and white ; and each of these again into hispid, downy, or smooth. The yellow goose- berries in general are sweeter, and have a more rich and vinous flavour than the white, which are often insipid. The green are sometimes extremely sweet, but generally inferior to the yellow, though sometimes very large. Of the red varieties, some are excellent, others rather acid; in short, every year produces new varieties, so that it is difficult to speak definitely of their characters. Some of them are early, and others late ; of the latter, the variety called the Pitmanston greengage is particularly deserving of notice, and in some seasons will hang tUl it shrivels, and almost candies on the tree. Gooseberries are not only very easily cultivated, but are perhaps the most wholesome of our fruits; and besides their use in the ordinary way, they are employed successfiilly for making excellent wine, which sparkles when the cork is i-awn, and, when well made, is nearly equal to Champagne, and often passes for it. They are the earliest, as well as one of the best fruits for spring tarts, and are very easily preserved in the green state through the winter, so as to retain their natural flavour for tarts, cream, &c.; and when ripe, and preserved with sugar, they make excellent jams and jellies. From gooseberries being so useful for many purposes, both in a green and mature state, care is taken by the gar- deners to have a succession of them through the summer months. The early sorts gathered green for tarts are to be had in April, or early in May, and untU August. Some are ripe in June, and ripe gooseberries of a late sort are kept on the trees till September. 2785. The pleasant acidulous flavour of the gooseberry is owing to the presence of malic and citric acid blended ivith sugar; and upon the varied proportions in which these two principles are developed depends the fitness of the several varieties for dessert or kitchen use, for preserving, or for making wine. Gooseberries and currants contain a large proportion of what has been named by chemists pectic acid, remarkable for forming the gelatinous coagulum when mixed with water, well known by the name of jelly. 2786. The term gooseberry is supposed to be a corruption of grossberry, the name among the ancient Latins being grossularice, from their resemblance to small unripe figs, or grossi; whence also the French groseilles. 2787. The acid of gooseberries may be procured in a separate form, the method of which is a late discovery by a French chemist. He ferments the gooseberry juice, distils off ardent spirit from it, which he reserves; the residual liquor he saturates with chalk, washes the insoluble powder thus produced, treats it with sulphuric acid, as in the pro- cess for extracting the crystallised lemons, filters ofi' the liquor, and evaporates it, so that the crystals will form on cooling. By this mode, 100 parts of gooseberries afford 10 of spirit, and 1 of crystallised acid which is said to resemble citric acid. SuBSECT. 2.—Red and White Currants {Ribes rubrum. Linn.). 2788. Both these are considered to be varieties of the same species, since the berries in their wild state are all red, and it is cultivation that has produced the white and pale red varieties. There is little doubt that this elegant fruit is an improved native of Britain, being found wild {Ribes sylvestre) in many places. It has been supposed, however, that it has degenerated from the seedless grape of the Levant, still imported under the same name, currants. It is scarcely known in France, where it is distinguished from the gooseberry only by the name groseilles en grappes. 2789. The white is preferred for the dessert, being peculiarly juicy and cooling: they are best also for making wine. It is observed that all the white fruits of the berry kind are sweeter than the coloured, but other fruits that are coloured are generally sweeter than the white. Red currants are imported from Holland, and sold in Covent Garden market, after ours are out of season, at as low prices as our own. They are carefully packed in baskets of 15 or 20 lbs., and they consist only of large dry bunches, which keep better than ours. The red is used for tarts and in the preparation of jellies, and they are par-