Chap. VII. 443 VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. than real as we may observe that cai-nivorous animals live upon those that feed upon vegetable's, so that still we trace that the entrance of matter into the livmg system is through the vegetable kingdom. „ , . , '>350 A bar seems therefore opposed to the extent of our chemical power; we cannot by its'raeans increase the quantity of organised matter ; but it is evident that human know- ledge and art have already wonderfully modified the nature of organised matter, so as to render available as food much that in its natural state was unfit; of which the arts of agriculture and of cooking furnish eminent examples. ^ ■ , .r ^ 0351 In prosecuting these researches, Braconnot was desirous of trying how Jar the chan"-es from lignin to sugar could be effected, and whether every condition of this prin- ciple°could be so converted. For this purpose he tried not only sawdust, but, with equal success, hemp, straw, and even linen rags and paper, all of which consist of lignin, and all of which he converted into sugar. 235'' But it is now many years since that Professor Auchtenrielh of Tubingen showed that, by proper management, lignin might be converted into a species of bread (Prout, Phil. Trans. 1827. See receipt in Chan 111 Book IX. "On Bread"). "This discovery," bir John Herschel observes, " winch renders famine next to impossible, deserves a higher degree of celebrity than it has obtained. And lest it niight be supposed in what we have said above, that there is a certain dash of the extravagant, we shall beg leave to quote a few further remarks from the authority we have just cited, whose practical as well as enharged views no one will dispute. " The transformations of chemistry, by which we are enabled to con- vert the most .ipparently useless materiiils into important objects in the arts, are opening up to us every day sources of wealth and convenience of which former ages had no idea, and which have been pure gifts of science to man. Every department of art has felt their influence, and new instances are continually starting forth of the unlimited resources which this wonderful science developes in the most sterile parts of nature. Who for instance, would have conceived that linen rags were capable of producmg 7nore than then- own weight of sugar by the simple agency of one of the cheapest and most abundant acids ; that dry bones could be a magazine of nutriment capable of preservation for years, and ready to yield up their sustenance m the form best adapted to the support of life, on the application of that powerful agent steam, which enters so largely into all our processes, or of an acid at once cheap and durable ; thus sawdust itself is susceptible of conversion into a substance bearing no remote analogy to bread, and though less palatable than that ol flour, yet no w.ay disagreeable, and both wholesome and digestible, as well as highly nutritive ? " Notwithstanding these announcements, however. It is but just to add, that some persons think it possible th.at the apparently nutritive properties of lignin, as treated by Professor Auchtenrieth, might have been partly owing to some stiirch which generally accompanies the woody fibre ; and we have said so much, rather to show the power of chemistry as applied to our subject, than as any thing of great practical advantage. Sect. IX. VEGETABLE JELLY. 2353. Several vegetables, but particularly ripe fruits, as currants and gooseberries, yield a juice by pressure, which, when carefully evaporated at a temperature of 200°, the concentrated portion of it concretes into a tremulous gelatinous mass, quite distinct from animal gelatine, and from gluten, as it contains no nitrogen. This substance is well known by the name o(jelly. It is scarcely soluble in cold water, but very soluble in hot water, and when cold again coagulates into the form of jelly. 'When long boiled, it loses the property of gelatinising by cooling, and becomes analogous to mucilage. This is the reason that, in making currant or any other vegetable jelly, when the quantity of sugar added is not sufficient to absorb all the watery parts of the fruit, and consequently it is necessary to concentrate the liquor by long boiling, the mixture often loses the property of gelatinising, and the jelly of course is spoiled. Vegetable jelly exists more or less in all ripe acid fruits, as the orange, lemon, gooseberry, &c. It is considered very analogous to gum with vegetable acid. To procure the jelly free from the acid, if the jelly which has gelatinised be put into a sieve, the acid gradually filters through, and, by washing with water, may be separated, leaving the jelly pure ; this will dry into a hard mass not very different from gum. Braconnot, who first observed this fact, proposes the name of pectin for the substance. Sect. X. VEGETABLE OILS. 2354. Oil is distinguished by its peculiar unctuous feel, by its inflammability, and refusing to mix with water. Animal oil has been described as " Fat," Chap. II. Book VII. The vegetable oils are divided into fixed and volatile. They are caWed fixed when the greasy ■ stain which they give to paper does not disappear on the application of heat, and when ' they do not rise in distillation at the temperature of boiling water. Volatile oils are those whose stain on paper disappears with a gentle heat, and which, when distilled with water, > rise at the temperature of 212°. The fixed vegetable oils form a numerous and im- I portant class. 235."j. Fixed vegetable oils. — These exist ready formed, and uncombined with any other substance, in the kernels of many seeds. They are also foimd in the roots, bark, and ■wood ; but there they are intimately combined with other principles of the plants. These Gg