Fig. 826. ECONOMY OF THE LAUNDRY. 1090 Book XXII. ally round, and raised upon blocks or forms; but some prefer having tliem of an oblong shape, narrovrer at the bottom than at the top,/(/. 825., and with a gi-oove running all round on the edge, to carry off the slop that is made. They should be placed in a good light, in a range as numerous as is necessary, and each should be furnished with pipes, A, having cocks for hot and cold water, and should also have one at the bottom for letting off the soap- suds into a waste-pipe, which goes into the drain or a cesspool. The labour of washing is so disa- greeable and injurious to health, that every contrivance which may facili- tate it is worth attending to for les- sening the manual labour, and even for improving the process itself. Be- sides the wash-tubs, there must also be proper rinsing-tubs, and trays to put linen upon, linen-baskets, folding-horses, clothes-lines and pegs. A good wash-house should be 24 feet long, 10 feet wide, and 9 or 10 feet high; but this, of course, must be modified according to the woi-k required. 6519. A serious objection to washing at home arises from the steam diffusing itself through the house, rendering the air damp, and spoiling the furniture, besides the destruc- tion of comfort. In a wash -house constructed on purpose out of the house, ventilation is easily effected by an aperture in the roof properly contrived to carry off the steam. See Book III. " On Ventilation." G520. A method of destroying the sleatn has lately been invented, by which it may be got rid of in any situ- ation, and is actually here converted into fuel and made to assist in heating the copper. It has long been known that steam, passed into the fire of a furnace, is decomposed .ind converted into the elementary gases, hydrogen and oxygen ; and it had been observed that, when only a small stream of water was played against a house on fire, it assisted instead of preventing the combustion. Waste steam is now burned iii manufac- tories, by conducting it into the air-flue that feeds the fire ; and is thus employed in wash-houses, breweries, and several large establishments. Dr. Fife, in a paper in Jamieson's Journal, July 1837, has shown that a great accession of heat may be gained by this process. 6521. The method of effecting this is very simple. " The boiler is Icept closely covered ; but at one side, that next tlie wall, there is a tlue of communication between tlie upper edge of the boiler immediately under the lid, and another flue which conducts the air down to the ash-pit. By keeping the ash-pit door shut, no air is admitted to tlie fire but what is drawn down through this flue ; and of course it draws down the steam along with it, and both air and steam pass upwards through the fire. By having the upper opening of the air-flue immediately under the ceiling, in the case of wasli-houses, breweries. Sec, any steam from the wash- ing tubs, or any vapour whicli may be floating in tlie atmosphere, will be drawn down and consumed." Thus the wash-house, which at present is a most unwholesome and disagreeable place, may be much im- proved ; although it will be still impossible by this contrivance to get quit of the steam that escapes when the cover of the boiler is taken off, or what rises from the wash-tubs. 6522. The laundry should adjoin the wash-house, and may be 18 feet square, and 11 or 12 feet high. It should be well lighted ; the floor should be level, of nibbed Yorkshire stone, laid upon brick piers to keep it perfectly free from damp. It should be furnished with a mangle, or that may be better in a separate small room, a furnace for heating the irons, an ironing-board 12 feet by 3 feet, clothes-horses, large drawers for the ironing cloth, iron-holders, &c., proper places for putting away the clothes-baskets, and a place for coals. In small establishments, the laundry usually serves for the double purpose of drying and ironing the linen, particularly when there is no convenience for drying in the open air, the advantages of which have been already explained ; and notwithstanding the superiority of the latter method, yet, by proper arrangements, it is possible to dry clothes perfectly well, and with a good colour, in-doors. 6523. Wlicn the laundry is used us a dryiiig-room, the air is necessarily hcpt very hot and damp, which renders it very unhealthy for the laundry maids. The usual method of heating it is by an iron stove and iron i)ipe for the passage of the smoke, which is simple and effectual, though less wholesome than by pipes filled with steam or hot water. It is essential that a draught or current of air should be excited in a drying-room, or a laundry used as such, to carry off the moisture from the linen. This current may be obtained by keeping a part of the upper sashes open, or panes to open, and likewise by having an opening at the lower part of the door. 6524. When a laundry is built on purpose, proper ventilation may be easily provided by proper lubber boarding in the roof; but it must be observed, that it can never be expected that the hot air can pass out at top, except proper openings are made somewhere at the bottom to supply its place. Sometimes a room in the attic story can be spared, and this may be advantageously converted into a drying-room, since there openings in the roof may be easily obtained. The old-fashioned high roofs, so common on the Continent, are very convenient for this purpose, for which they are often employed, as well as for