Book V. 212 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. cream when it issues from an incision, but, by undergoing certain processes, and being mixed with charcoal or lampblack, it becomes dry, and of a deep black. It is then polished and varnished with some peculiar oil varnish, after having been sometimes painted and gilt. In whatever manner this japan is produced, it is evidently of very ex- cellent quality, and the Eastern furniture covered with it is valuable on account of its containing genuine specimens of the art of decorative painting in these countries. Formerly a great deal of this species of lacquered or varnished furniture was brought from Canton in China. Although it was somewhat inferior to that of Japan, it was a beautiful manufacture, and when introduced into Europe was highly appreciated; but the improvements in our own productions have reduced the quantity in demand. These articles consist of magnificent folding screens, cabinets, and other things in daily use: among the Chinese. 996. Our vamishes called japans, and which are used for tea-boards, tables, chairs, coach pannels, snuff-boxes, and other articles, differ considerably from the Indian, but, when well executed, are very beautiful, and generally much better painted. Japanning is executed upon various substances, as metal, wood, papier-machee, and leather ; and the process varies in some degree, according to the substances to be covered. When the substances to be japanned are not perfectly smooth, a ground is first laid of strong size and whiting, in order to obtain a perfectly level surface. 997. Li tlie japanned tea-boards, of which such vast quantities are manufactured at Bir- mingham, as the sheet iron of which they are made is sufficiently level and smooth, no ground is necessary, and as the metal can endure a process by heat which other sub- stances cannot, the mode of japanning is different. For the common black japan grounds in iron or copper, the work is painted over with drying linseed oil, and a little lamp- black ; and when it is moderately dry, it is put into a stove heated to such a degree as to change the oil black without burning it. The heat should be augmented slowlj', and con- tinued for a long time, in order to harden the coat of japan. This kind requires no polishing. 998. When substances not metaUic are to be japanned, a different process must be fol- lowed. Here the japan is composed of shell-lac dissolved in spirits of wine, which, when dry, forms an extremely hard coating. Besides the use of the ground or priming of size and whiting mentioned, another was the saving of the japan ; but these grounds are gene- rally more or less liable to crack, and are omitted in the best work. The colours re- quired are mixed with the shell-lac varnish^ and sometimes with gum animi, and nut, or poppy oil. After the painting is completed, the whole again receives two or more coats of shell-lac varnish, and is then polished with a rag and oil, dipped in tripoli or rotten stone, finely powdered; a cloth, with oil alone, is used to finish with. In this way the beautiful papier-machce tea-boards are japanned and painted; likewise snuff-boxes, waiters, &c. Heat is always more or less necessary to harden the japan, but except in the case of metals, it must be sparingly used. 999. Japanning is sometimes made to imitate tortoise-shell. This colour is produced by boiling together linseed oil and amber till the oil becomes very thick and brown. The more transparent parts of the tortoise-shell are imitated by first laying on, thinly, spots of ver- milion, tempered with shell-lac varnish, or with drying oil. AVhen the vermilion is dry, the whole is brushed over with the deep brown varnish. 1000. A varnish for wood that will resist the action of boiling water is made in the follow- ing manner, and is much used in Russia for vaniishing their wooden bowls for holding food. Boil a pound and a half of linseed oil in a copper vessel, suspending in the oil a small linen bag containing five ounces of litharge and three ounces of minium, both pulverised, taking care that the bag does not touch the bottom of the vessel. Continue the ebullition till the oil becomes of a deep brown colour, then take out the bag, and substitute another bag containing a clove of garlic ; renew this garlic seven or eight times, and put in the whole quantity at once. Throw into the vessel a pound of yellow amber, after having melted it in the following manner: — To a pound of well pulverised amber add two ounces of linseed oil, and place the whole on a strong fire. VThen the fusion is complete, pour it boiling hot into the prepared linseed oil, and let the whole continue to boil for two or three minutes. Let it rest, decant the composition, and per- serve it, when cold, in well-stopped bottles. To lay this on, the wood must be polished ; and first a slight coat of some colour mixed with oil of turpentine must be gi ven : a coat of the varnish is then laid on with a sponge : when this is dry, another coat is given, and so three or four coats, as may be found necessary, taking care that one coat is dry before another is added.