942 COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST AND INVALID. Book XVI. VI. First Course. Second Course. Soup r rule pUuulllg (Remove — Hashed mutton) Stewed Custards Potatoes Spinach apples Roast beef Maccaroni Soup (left preceding day), fresh vegetables boiled in it . . Haslied mutton (prepared from cold mutton of the preceding day's dinner), catsup, and vegetables .... Roast beef, 10 lbs., at 8ii. per lb. Vegetables .... Estimate, s. d. 0 4 Fruit pudding . . . . Maccaroni (cheese grated from pieces which would not do for the table) Stewed apples (left the day before) . Custards . . . . . Total . IU. Id. t. d. 0 9 1 0 1~0 1st day 2d day 3d day 4 th day SIX DINNEOS FOR A FAMILY PARTY CONSISTING OF TWELVE INDIVIDUALS. «. d. 19 0 7 -5 10 10 14 3 5th day 6th day Total £3 19». Id. s. d. 1(! 6 II 1 Sect. II. RECEIPTS FOR COOKING COLD PROVISIONS. StJBSECT. 1. —Modes of cooking cold Butcher's Meat. 5510. Minced beef. — Cut into small dice remains of cold beef; any gravy reserved from it on the first day of its being served should be put in the stew-pan w ith the addition of warm w.iter, some mace, sliced eschalot, salt, and black pepper. Let the whole simmer gently for an hour. few minutes before it Is served, take out the meat and dish It; add to the gravy some walnut catsup, .and a little lemon juice or walnut pickle. Boil up the gravy once more, and when hot, pour it over the meat. Serve it with bread sippets. 5511. Cold roast beef (with mashed potatoes). — Mash some potatoes witli hot milk, the yolk of an egg, some butter and salt. Slice the cold beef and lay it at the bottom of a pie dish, adding to it some sliced eschalot, pepper, salt, and a little beef gravy; cover the whole with a thick paste of potatoes, making the crust to rise in the centre above the edges of the dish. Score the potato crust with the point of a knife in squares of equal sizes. Put the dish before the fire in a Dutch oven, and brown it on all sides : by the time it is coloured, the meat and potatoes will be sufficiently done. 5512. Bubble and squeak Cut into pieces, convenient for frying, cold roast or boiled beef; pepper, salt, and fry them ; when done lay them on a hot drainer, and while the meat is draining from the fat used in frying them, have in readiness a cabbage already boiled in two waters; chop it small, and put it in the frying pan with some butter, add a little pepper and salt, and keep stirring it, that all of it may be equally done. When taken from the fire, sprinkle over the cabbage a very little vinegar, only enough to give it a slight acid taste. Place the cabbage in the centre of the dish, and arrange the slices of meat neatly round it. 5513. Lobscous. — Mince, not too. finely, some cold roast beef or mutton. Chop the bones and put them into a saucepan with six potatoes peeled and sliced, one onion also sliced, some pepper and salt; of these make a gravy. When the potatoes are completely incorporated with the gravy, take out the bones, and put in the meiit; stew the whole together for an hour before it is to be served. 5514. Be^rissoles. — Slince and season cold beef, and flavour it with mushroom or walnut catsup. Make of beef dripping a very thin paste, roll it out in thin pieces about four inches square ; enclose in each piece some of the mince, in the same way as for puffs, cutting each neatly all round j fry them in dripping of a very light brown. The paste can scarcely be rolled out too thin. 5515. Minced veal Cut veal from the fillet or shoulder into very small dice ; put it into veal or mutton broth witli a little mace, white pepper, salt, some lemon peel grated, and a table-spoonful of musliroom cat- sup or mushroom powder, rubbed smooth into the gravy. Take out some of the gravy when nearly done, and when cool enough thicken it with flour, cream, and a little butter ; boil it up with the rest of the gravy, and pour it over the meat when done. Garnish with bread sippets. A little lemon-juice added to the gravy Improves its flavour. 5510. Cold veal dressed with white sauce Boil milk or cream with a thickening of flour and butter ; put into it tliin slices of cold veal, and simmer it in the gravy till it is made hot without lx)iling. When nearly done beat up the yolk of an egg, with a little .ancho\'j' and white sauce ; pour it gently to the rest, stirring It all the time ; simmer again tlie whole together, and serve It with sippets of bread and curled bacon altcr- •5517. ycal rissoles Mince and pound veal extremely fine ; grate into it some remains of cooked ham. Mix these well together with a white sauce flavoured with mushrooms; form this mixture into balls, and enclose each in pastry. Fry them in butter of a nice brown. The same mince may bo fried in balls without pastry, being first cemented together -with egg and bread- Mutton hashed. — C»t cold mutton into thin slices, fat and lean together; m.ike gr.ivy with the bones whence the meat has been taken, boiling them long enough in w.itcr, with onion, pepper, .mdsalt; strain the gravy, and warm, but not boil the nuitton in It. Then take out some of the gravy to thicken it with flour and butter, and flavour it with mushroom catsup. Pour in the tliickening and boil it up, having before taken out the meat, and placed it neatly on the dish in wliich it is to go to the table. I'our over it the boiling gravy, and add sippets of bre.id. . , „ , .5519. Cold lamb. — Fry slices or chops of lamb m butter till thoy .ire slightly browned. Serve them on a puree of cucumbers, or on a dish of spinach ; or dip the slices in bread crumbs, chopped par.Mey, and yolk of egg ; some grated lemon-pcel and a little nutmeg may be added. Fry them, and pour a little nice gravy over them when served.