Book XXIV. 1140 STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. some length on the properties of the various kinds of grain and pulse and other vegetahle substances. 6769. Tlic feeding of horses is a subject that demands much attention, and it is one, observes Mr. Stuart, (to whose excellent work we are indebted for many hints,) on which people unacquainted with stable affairs are apt to make many blunders, because they reason too much from analogy, and suppose that the rules by which they regulate their own diet should be applied to the horse, although he is an animal whose digestive organs are very different from those of man. " The large stomach of the horse being intended by nature for green food requires a greater degree of distention for its functions than com alone can produce ; one use of hay, therefore, in addition to corn, is to distend the stomach : as a proof that nature demands this, if a horse is unlimited in- his allowance of com, he will frequently leave this to eat some fodder, or even the litter; therefore, when the usual fodder is too dear, some cheaper substitute must be found. The use of giving condensed food in the shape of corn is to enable him to do more work than he could do upon what is not so. From this the importance of attending to the bulk of the food will be understood. Hay and all kinds of green food and roots contain less nutriment in the same bulk than com or pulse, and therefore the horse must eat a greater quantity of the former; but as this quantity encumbers the horse by its weight, bulky food is not proper for horses where speed is required. Food in the more condensed form of grain and pulse is fitter for fast ■work : slow or moderate work assists digestion; hut such work as horses in general have to perform, and which sometimes produces copious perspiration, requires peculiar manage- ment. During fast work it is probable that digestion is suspended, or the stomach is not in a favourable condition for performing its duty. It is, therefore, not right to give horses a full meal immediately before commencing their -work, if considerable; the bad effect of doing so is well known to experienced horsemen ; the horse wants breath and is unwilling to go forward ; the action of his lungs is impeded, and he has to carry an increase of ■weight, which, though but a few pounds, has an effect upon his speed; on this account it is usual to feed coaching horses one or two hours before starting, and hay is withheld after the corn is eaten; but it is not proper to keep them from food so long before their ■work that exhaustion commences." 6770. The food of horses in this country is of three kinds : what is called fodder consists of grass and all kinds of green food, hay, and straw. Corn is a term applied to oats and every kind of grain and pulse upon which horses are fed. Roots, as potatoes, carrots turnips, &c., form the third. The greatest nutriment in the smallest bulk lies in corn ; the least is fodder. 6771. Of herbage given to horses, the principal kind with us is the extensive class grasses, which may be eaten moist or green, or dried into hay. When eaten moist while it is growing, the horse is said to graze; but when the green food is cut and carried into the.stable to the horse, he is said to be soiled. By the latter practice he loses the benefit of the fresh air of the fields, but much time is saved to him, since in grazing he would require several hours to eat sufficient, -whereas he could eat the same quantity of green food in his stable in one quarter of the time. Grass is the natural food for the horse; it is composed of a great number of plants growing together, and differing considerably in their properties ; some of them are much relished by him, and he rejects others. Al- though in a state of nature, he can subsist sufficiently well upon this food, yet when domesticated and applied to hard work, grass and other kinds of green food are not suf- ficiently nutritive to keep him in condition ; and it is necessary that he should have also the farinaceous food which corn supplies to give him strength. Besides the common or meadow grass there are several species of grasses and plants which are cultivated for green food, as clover, rye grass, lucerne, saintfoin, &c. respecting the particular merits of -which there are various opinions ; but they appear all to produce nearly the same effects as meadow grass, some horses liking one best and some another; clover, rye grass, and tares are the most common. Furze called In Scotland whin. Is, when green, a very good food for horses, which have oacn subsisted upon it when there was no other. It must be bruised by a bruising mill, and should be given with straw and o.'its. It is said that the British cavalry while in the Pyrenees, under the Duke of Wellington, had often no "'cm'^^rSri or tares take the lead as a green food for the soiling of cattle ; and it is also made into hay while in a state of blossom. They are best for horses when the pod is formed. 6773. Notwithstanding the good effects of green herbage occasionalh/, yet this must be given to horses with caution, since, accustomed as he is to an artificial state of living, it effects a considerable change upon him. For the first two or three days, green food relaxes the bowels, and increases the secretion of urine and perspiration: if permitted to eat of it as much as he pleases, the belly becomes large from the quantity of this kind of food re- quired to satisfy him ; but though corn gives liim more strength tlian grass, yet his general health is much improved by the latter. When horses are soiled, they should never get much green food at a time, a practice too prevalent among servants. The custom of givmg