113 PRACTICE OF VENTILATION. .iHAP. II. ,■ 504. Good ventilation is nowhere more important, although nowhere more neglected, than in rr bed chambers. The bad effect of sleeping in small and close rooms has been already entioned; to which-we may likewise add, that of having thick curtains drawn close iiund the bed, wliich confine the air that has been exhaled, surrounding us -with an inpure atmosphere. Provision should be made for a continual change of air in the jartment during the night, by the escape of the heated and foul air, and the introduction cool and fresh air. The first may be effected by some aperture at the top of the room ; nrhaps keeping the top sash open for about an inch may be sufficient: of course, care aist be taken that the fresh air brought in at the lower part of the room does not act as idraught striking upon the bed, but that it enters by small apertures and diffuses itself as iiickly as possible; and likewise that there may be the means of regulating the quantity •cording to circumstances. If the temperature of the fresh air can be regulated, it -wiU ;! better. 505. A little apparatus for ventilating a bed chamber in the night, invented by the li'arquis de Chabannes, though not very effectual for a large room, is perhaps -worth mentioning for a small one. It consists of a little box, or inclosure of tin or other metal, having an opening in front, Jig. 80., in which may be placed a small lamp. The upper part or flue is to be inserted into the wall on the chimney breast, and is to go quite into the flue of the chimney. The air which the lamp requires for combustion will thus pass into the flue, occasioning fresh air to come into the room to supply its place. This machine is, in fact, a little chimney, in which the lamp is the fire. It should be placed near the top of the room. 506. Jt is highly deserving of attention, that although we never use fires without flues, yet we very absurdly have long continued to burn lamps of considerable size, which are, in fact, so many fires, in the middle of our apartments, even when small, without the least attempt to carry off the burnt air which they are constantly generating. No wonder, then, that lae air, in such places, is often felt to be oppressive : it is indeed extremely unwholesome. is in vain that we get rid of the smoke by the use of Argand burners ; for this, though an tyil, is not the greatest one, so far as health is concerned: the poisonous gases given out rce much worse. It is to be observed, however, that it is the size and number of the .;.mps, compared with the size and ventilating condition of the apartment, that creates the mischief; and we wish to draw attention to the fact, that every additional light destroys, r rather renders injurious, a certain portion of the air in the apartment where it is burned. >Te have the satisfaction of stating, however, that the bad effect which suspended gas ;ghts have upon the air of a room, may be completely obviated by adopting the invention ly Professor Faraday described in the chapter " on Lamps ;" but this will not apply to lights daced upon a table, nor to candles, nor oil lamps. Our apartments, where large parties are received, are in general lofty, which renders lae vitiation of the air less perceived ; but when they are lighted up in the evening by numerous lamps or candles, the vital part of the air becomes quickly exhausted, and the dsiters, particularly those in delicate health, suffer considerably by remaining long in liaem, except some means for ventilation be employed. It is difficult to effect this after I ie houses are finished in the ordinary way ; but if the subject be attended to while they re constructing, methods may be resorted to for producing a change of the air. 507. The centre of the ceiling of an apartment, fig. 81., would appear to be the fittest place ur the exit of the vitiated air, which might then be carried off by means of large tin or other tubes laid horizontally between the joists, and thence to the open air at the top of the house by a flue built in the wall. 'J'he aperture in the ceiling may be easily concealed by a large ornamental flower, in plaster or papier-machce, which is usually placed there, and from which a lamp or chandelier is suspended. This aperture may be regulated, b)' having some contrivance by which more or less air may be permitted to escape, as occasion may require : and this regulation may be effected by cords and pulleys worked by a winch or key in the apartment. It may be observed that a coved ceiling is the most favourable for the escape of the bad air. To replace the air that thus escapes, 'ihere may lie tubes along or under the floor, by which fresh air may be brought from Dutside the house, and the admission of whicli, through gratings or valves placed in convenient parts of the room, should also be regulated. 508. In admilling fresh air into apartments care must be taken that it does not come as II direct stream or current, which will extend to a great distance, and produce draughts not ■mly very unpleasant, but perhaps very dangerous effects: the air may easily be dispersed at its entrance by plates placed before the apertures to divert its direction, or by lumerous small apertures. The manner of effecting ventilation of this kind must depend Fig.Sl.