293 Chap. XV. EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY. receive all kinds of colours by means of metallic oxides and oclives. The pastes of wliicli they are foi-raed are extremely plastic, and may be worked and moulded with the greatest facility. 'I'he more delicate ornaments are cast in moulds and stuck on: they are applied ■with remarkable dexterity by women and children. It is of the following varieties. A Bamboo or cane-coloured biscuit was one of Wedgwood's original wares, and was employed for many elegant articles for the table : it is extremely compact, and was not glazed. It is still in use, and is sometimes slightly glazed. A white biscuit was also made, having the chief qualities of porcelain, but without its transparency. An extremely hard porcelanous ware was likewise made and employed for chemical vessels, as evaporating basins, crucibles, mortars, tubes, and other apparatus : this, from its resisting the corrosion of the strongest acids, and not fusing with the strongest heats, has been an invaluable acquisition to the chemist. These are composed of six parts of potters' clay, three of granite, two of calcined flints, and one of Cornish or china clay. Wedgwood's black Egyptian loare was for a long time very extensively used for the tea table, owing, in a great measure, to the elegance of its forms and decorations, which rivalled in design the works of Greek and Roman artists. When this novel kind of ware was produced, porcelain had not been made in England, all that was then used being foreign, which was for a time almost entirely superseded by the various beautiful wares of Wedgwood. Its black colour was given by manganese. Besides tea-pots, sugar basins and milk pots, a variety of ornamental articles were made of it, such as inkstands, vases, lamps, &c., which were ornamented with elegant bas-reliefs, figures, foliage, and other devices, which were sometimes in a dark red colour. This kind of ware is stUl executed by several potters, but it is lamentable to perceive the falling off in the taste of the forms and designs since the death of Wedgwood. It is owing to this and the introduction of English porcelain and other wares, that the black Wedgwood articles have nearly gone ■ out of use, being purchased now merely for their cheapness. Originally they were not 1 glazed, by which the perfect effect of the beautiful ornaments was seen : but this had the inconvenience of being somewhat difficult to keep clean. At present it is generally 1 covered with a slight glaze, which permits its being washed and kept clean with perfect : facility, though the effect of the ornaments is much diminished. To produce the slight I glaze given to it, technically termed smearing, the ware is not dipped into a liquid glaze, 1 but placed in the seggar in the state of biscuit; and the insides of the seggars being 1 coated with salt, or some volatile glaze, these are converted into vapour, yrllich vitrifies the I external part of the ware, and gives it the desired lustre. Wedgwood made likewise what he called jV/sper ware, which had elegant white bas-reliefs (on a beautiful blue ground. The white vitrifying pastes used in the jasper ware is com- I posed of forty-seven parts of sulphate of baryta, twenty-six potters' clay, fifteen of cal- 1 cined flints, fifteen of granite, six sulphate of lime, and ten sulphate of strontium : the barj^a serves as a flux to the clays. The fine Wedgwood blue on this ware is produced ■ by cobalt. The delicate white ornaments are cast in moulds and stuck on. From this jjasper ware, which found its way into every country in Europe, he derived great profit, 1 until, by the infidelity of a servant, the secret was disclosed and sold, so that others I executed the same art; and though by means of inferior artists, yet this interfered so 1 much, that it prevented Wedgwood from keeping up the price, and employing the same t talent as before. Excellent imitations of Etruscan and other antique vases were executed by Messrs. 'Wedgwood and Bentley. It does not appear that the Greeks or Romans were in posses- •sion of a complete vitrified glaze for their pottery : but the vessels mentioned as having ! been made in the island of Samos had a red covering that was probably imperfectly vitri- tfied, as they were held in high estimation for cooking. Earthen jars for holding dry s substances were not glazed, but were similar to those now brought from Spain and IPoi-tugal with grapes. When they were employed as amphoraj for holding wine, they >were rubbed over with wax to stop their pores. The vases found m such numbers in t Greece and Italy, and commonly called Etruscan, were in part coloured by a black covenng that is carbonaceous and not vitreous, which wears ofl' by use. The (ycact nature ' of this black varnish has never yet been determined with certainty : but the vases them- s selves are exquisitely beautiful in form, and ornamented with infinite taste. Among the ornamental works executed by Wedgwood may be reckoned two imitations ■ of cameos : one of a slave in chains, of which he distributed many hundreds, to induce the -Kuppression of the slave trade ; and the other representing Hope attended by Peace, Art, and Labour, made of clay from Australia, to show what is produced there. One of the 1 most splendid works of this kind was an imitation of the celebrated Barbarini or Portland wase which was discovered in the tomb of Alexander Scverus, and which was purchased by ' the Duchess of Portland. This copy was modelled by Mr. Webber, and fifty vases were I made, for which 50/. each was subscribed, a sum which did not nearly defray the expense Various imitations of antique cameos were executed in great abundance an-1 variety' U 3