BIRDS. 395 CilAP. V. the full allowance of corn, and the constiint health in which they are kept, by living in a natural state, and having the full enjoyment of air and exercise, they become the most delicate and high-flavoured of all the varieties. 2021. Doikimj fowls take their name from Dorking in Surrey, celebrated for breeding them in great plenty and perfect ion. They are a large and handsome variety, and the flesh is tine, but inclining to a yellowish shade. They lay large eggs, and the capons are generally made from this breed, which has frequently five toes. 2022. J'/ie Poland breed is black with white tops. Their form is plump ; they fatten well, and in quality they are similar to the Dorking, or rather superior. They lay abundance of large eggs. 2023. The every-dai/ or Dutch fowls are smaller than the above, but have still longer plumes, so large, indeed, that their feathers should be cropped occasionally, or they will get into their eyes and blind them. They are called " everlasting layers" from the abundance of their eggs. 2024. The bantam is an extremely small variety, originally from India, remarkable on account of its grotesque figure, being generally feathered to the toes. From its size and delicacy they are very convenient, as they may sometimes stand in the place of chickens, when these are not to be had ; and they are particularly useful for sitting upon the eggs of partridges and pheasants, being good nurses as well as layers. 2025. ITie game-fowls are rather small; but the flesh is beautifully white, and superior to that of any other variety in richness and flavour. The eggs are small and very deli- cate ; but the chickens are difiicult to rear, from their pugnacity of disposition, for which this breed is so remarkable. Great cruelty has been exercised with this animalin making them fight ; but it is to be hoped that such unmanly sports will disappear. 2026. The Chitiagong is an Indian breed, and the largest variety of the species; colour, striped. Their flesh is coarse, dark, and best calculated for soup. They are good layers, but not steady sitters. 2027. The term chicken is applied to the young female till they are four months old; after which they are pullets till they begin to lay, when they are hens. The male is a chicken till he is three months old : he is then a cock-bird till twelve months old, when he is a cock. When deprived of the faculty of procreation, he becomes a capon; and a female in the same condition is a hen-capon. 2028. Though in general fowls, when in health, will become sufficienthj fat by having plenty of food, with air and exercise, yet they are commonly fattened for the London market. The means usually employed are, to keep them in confinement, with abundance of food, and little light; so that, in fact, they have nothing to do but to eat. It is a common practice with some housewives to coop their barn-door fowls for a week or two, under the notion of improving them for the table, and increasing their fat, — a practice which, however, seldom succeeds, since the fowls generally pine for their loss of liberty ; and, slighting their food, lose, instead of gaining, additional flesh. Such a period is, in fact, too short for them to become accustomed to confinement. 2029. Fowls arc generally fattened, by being confined in coops for several ti'ceks. The privation of light, by inclining fowls to a constant state of repose, except when moved by the appetite for food, pi-omotes and accelerates obesit)'; but such a state, observes Mr. Mowbray, obtained in this way, cannot be a state of health, nor can the flesh of animals so fed equal in flavour, nutriment, and salubrity, that of the same species fed in a more natural way. Economy and market-interest may, perhaps, be best answered by the place of darkness and close confinement; but a feeder for his own table, of delicate taste, and ambitious of furnishing his board with the choicest and most salubrious viands, will declare for the natural mode of feeding; and in that view, a feeding-yard, gravelled and turfed, a room being open all day for the fowls to retire in at pleasure, will have a decided preference, as the nearest approach to the barn-door system. 2030. Some places are remarkable for the feeding of poultry: North Chapel and Kins- ford in Sussex are mentioned by Rev. Arthur Young. Barley and wheat meal are the bases or chief ingredients in all fattening mixtures for chickens and fowls ; but in Sussex the food given them is gi-ound oats made into gruel, mixed with hog's grease, sugar, pot- liquor, and milk ; or ground oats, treacle and suet, sheeps' plucks, &c. With these mix- tures they are crammed, and kept in a coop for a fortnight, when they become fat, and are sold to the higglers. Some of these fowls, when full-grown, have been known to weigh seven pounds, and more. Oakingham in Berks is another place famous for fatten- ing fowls. The method employed is nearly the same as has been just mentioned. If kept too long upon this food, fever is induced by a constant state of repletion, which renders the flesh red, and frequently kills them. It appears utterly contrary to reason, that fowls fed upon such greasy and impure mixtures can produce flesh and fat so firm, delicate, and wholesome, as those which are fattened upon more simple and sub- stantial food. In the system of cramming there are sometimes cruel practices, with tlie mention of which we do not wish to stain our pages. It is remarked by the best judges,