FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. lOOG Book XVII. of birds and other natural objects. The origin of dyeing, or producing colours by arti- ficial means, is of great antiquity ; for Moses speaks of stuffs dyed blue and purple and scarlet, and of sheep skins dyed red. Among the Greeks, dyeing appears not to have been much practised; the woollen clothes usually worn by them were of the natural colour of the sheep; but the wealthy preferred coloured dresses, of which scarlet was much esteemed; still more highly valued was purple, which was the distinguishing mark of the greatest dignities, being reserved for princes only. The most famous of their purple dyes was that called Tyrian, which is said to have been drawn from a certain shell-fish, a species of murex, common on the shores of the Mediterranean ; but the quantity of purple juice afforded by this animal is exceedingly small, and consequently garments stained with it were of great price. The Romans were equally severe in restricting the use of purple to the highest rank; and it does not appear that the number of their dyes and dyed colours was considerable, although coloured dresses were not rare among them. 5927. The art of dyeing slowly improved in modern times, until the application of che- mistry, by throwing on it peculiar light, has of late advanced it to a degree of perfection formerly unknown. Sect. II. THEORY OF DYEING. 5928. Among the various siibstances capable of communicating colours to cloths of different hinds, very few have so strong an affinity for Oiem as to answer of themselves the purposes of dyeing. When we except indigo, the dyer is scarcely possessed of a dye-stuff that yields of itself a good colour sufficiently permanent to deserve the name of a dye, as they are almost all capable of being discharged by washing the cloth in water. This difficulty, which at first sight might appear insurmountable, has been obviated by a very ingenious contrivance. It has been found that by first immersing the material to he dyed in cer - tain substances, dyes that without this preparation would be fugitive, become permanent, and cannot be discharged by washing. These substances, therefore, become a bond of union between the cloth and the dye-stuff, and have received the name of mordants. The principle appears not to be altogether of modern invention, but to have been known to the Egyptians and other nations of antiquity. 5929. The nature of mordants is thus explained by Dr. Thomson of Glasgow. " The term mordant is applied by djers to certain substances with which the cloth to be dyed must be impregnated, otherwise the colouring matters would not adhere to the cloth, but would be removed by wash- ing. Thus, the red colour given to cotton by madder would not be fixed, unless the cloth were previously steeped in a solution of salt of alumina. It has been ascertained that the cloth has the property of decom- posing the salt of alumina, and of combining with and retaining a portion of alumina. J'he red colouring principle of the madder has an affinity for this alumina, and combines with it; the consequence is, that the alumina being firmly retained by the cloth, and the colouring matter by the alumina, the dye becomes fast, or cannot be removed by washing the cloth with water, even by the assistance of soap, though simple water is sulHcient to remove the red colouring matter from the cloth, unless the alum mordant has been previously applied. The term mordant (from the Latin word mordere,' to bite') was applied to these substances by the old French writers on dyeing, from a notion entertained by them that tlie action of the mordants was mecha- nical ; that they were of a corrosive or biting nature, and served merely to open pores in the fibres of the cloth, into which the colouring matter might insinuate itself; and after the inaccuracy of this notion was discovered, and the real use of mordants ascertained, the term was still continued, as sumcienlly appropriate, or rather as a proper name, without any allusion to its original signification." 5930. Mordants not only render the dye permanent, but they have also a considerable influ- ence on the colour. The same colouring matter produces very different dyes, according as the mordant is changed. Suppose, for instance, that the colouring matter is cochineal; if we use the aluminous mordant, the cloth will acquire a crimson colour; but the oxide of iron produces with it a black. In dyeing, it is not only necessary to procure a mordant that has a sufficiently strong afiinity for the colouring matter and the cloth, and a dyeing substance which possesses the wished-for colour in perfection, but we must procure a mor- dant and a colouring matter of such natures, that, when combined together, they shall form the desired colour. It is therefore evident that we can produce several colours with one dye-stuff, provided we can have a sufficient number of mordants; hence the selection and management of mordants is one of the chief arts of the dyer. 5931. Mordants arc generally composed of earths, metallic oxides, tannic acid, or all of these. Of earthy mordants, tlie most important and generally used is alumina, either in the state of common alum, or of acetate of alumina. Alum is a triple salt composed of sulphuric acid, alumina, and potash ; acetate pf alumina consists of the acetic acid and alumina, and answers better tlian alum for a mordant. Almost all the metallic oxides have an affinity for cloth, but only two of them are much used as mordants, viz. the oxides of tin and of iron. The oxide of tin is employed in the state of nitro-muriate (now called proto-chloride) and acetate of tin ; it is a very valuable mordant, which enables the moderns greatly to surpass the ancients in the lustre of their colours ; by its means alone scarlet, the brightest of all colours, is produced. Tannic acid has also a strong affinity for cloth, and is principally obtained from nut galls and sumach. Oil is sometimes used as a mordant in dyeing cotton and linen.