Book VIII. 582 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. the wort into a vessel -with a perforated bottom, called the hop-back; on a small scale, a portable strainer or wicker basket will do. ■3281. The coolers ouyht to be in sufficient vumber, and may be placed within doors or without, in the open air, as may be convenient; a couple of sticks may be laid across one of the coolers, and the basket put upon them; then the liquor, hops and all, may be put into the basket, which will keep back the hops ; the liquor should be of the same depth in all the coolers, otherwise the wort would cool unequally. It is most convenient to have the coolers below the level of the copper, that the wort may run into them by a pipe, or an open shoot: but if it is not convenient to have the coolers low enough, the wort may be pumped up into them, or may be carried to them in pails. 3282. 77(6 quicker the wort is cooled the better, which makes it very difficult to brew in warm weather: and it is very important to cool down exactly to a certain degree, since much of the success of the fermentation or working will depend upon the heat of the wort when it is put into the fermenting tun. The heat usually cooled down to is 70°, which is best ascertained by a thermometer ; but those who brew without this instru- ment determine the heat by putting the finger into the wort. It should feel just warm, gently luhewarvi, or as milk just drawn from the cow. It may be weU to observe that the liquor will cool a little in removing it into the fermenting tun. If the wort be cooled too slowly, it is apt to contract foxiness, a mouldiness appearing upon the surface that gives a bad taste to the beer, -which, in warm weather, is very liable, in this stage of the process, to turn sour. 3283. When the wort is sufficiently cooled, it is put into the fermenting tun, and now is the time to add the yeast, to excite the fermentation. 3284. The quantity of good solid yeast to be used should be proportioned, not only to that of the wort, but also to the heat of the weather, and of the fermenting liquor (see " Principles of Brewing"). One quart of good, stiff, fresh yeast may be used for forty gallons of good strong beer or ale wort ; and one pint and a half to the same number of gallons of small beer wort. In larger or smaller quantities, the yeast may be in proportion. If the weather be cold, rather more than the quantity just mentioned may be applied; and in hot weather it will be prudent to diminish the quantity, lest the fermentation should be too rapid. If the heat of the fermentation be about 70°, one pound and a half, or one pound and three quarters of yeast per barrel may be sufficient. If the heat be about 60°, then two pounds, or two pounds and a half of yeast will be required, the quantity being increased with the lowness of the heat. ' The danger is the least of employing a little too much yeast; imperfect fermentation is worse. It is of great importance to have the yeast good and fresh ; if it be at aU tainted, it will ruin the whole brewing. 328.5. It is a good practice to set the yeast to ferment a little before it is wanted in a bowl or pail, by adding to it a portion of lukewarm wort, and stirring them together, putting in more wort as the fermentation pi'oceeds. AVhen this mixture is decidedly in a state of fermentation, it is to be poured into the liquid to be fermented, and incorporated well with it by stirring. 3286. The degree of heat in the wort at the time the yeast is put in is very important to be attended to. This may be from 60° to 65° or 70° in temperate weather; but the exact degree must depend partly upon circumstances ; and as the heat of the fennentation will increase after a little time, allowance must be made for this. In general, in the small way, it is safest not to have the heat too low; about 65° may be a good medium heat It is desirable that the place where the fermentation is carried on should be of the right temperature; if the air should be about 55° it will be proper; any cool place in summer, and any warmish place in winter. If the weather be very cold, it will be useful to surround the fermenting tub with sacks or other cloths, or to have a fire in the room. This is the more necessary, as small quantities do not maintain their heat so well as large; and one of the chief difficulties in a small brewery is the keeping up a proper heat in the fermenting tub whUe the fermentation is going on. AVlien the yeast and the wort have been properly mixed together, sticks must be laid across the fermenting tub, and sacks ; or thick cloths laid over it and then it must be left for some time. 3287. The fermentation having fairly commenced is denoted by the appearance of very small air bubbles, which in a few hours will increase and put on the appearance described in Chap. III. Sect. III. Subsect. 4. This is one of the most critical periods in brewing, and the fermentation requires very constant attention. The frothy head of yeast will keep rising more or less slowly for about forty-eight hours; but the length of time for the working cannot be precisely fixed, as it varies with circumstances. Whan the head of yeast has risen considerably, and assumed a uniform appearance, it will begin to sink, and then it is proper to skim it off. This skimming should be repeated every few hours, otherwise, if brownish curdy matter which is now seen upon the yeast, and which is the intense bitter of the hop, is'suifcred to fall back into the beer, it will give a bitterness and rankness of flavour whicii the brewers call ycast-biller, and it will be difficult to get the