138 Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION end of the wire to receive the middle of the wick, and the upper end is bent into a rect- angular loop to retain the two ends of the wicks together, and to facilitate its removal, when the making of the candle is completed, which is to be effected either by moulding or dipping, in the usual manner. The consequence of this construction of the wick is, that the two halves curl over to diiferent sides, as is seen at a, fig. 101., each half projecting out so far as to get beyond the flame, and, of course, coming into the air, by which it is con- sumed and reduced to ashes, while at the same time no carbonaceous matter settles upon it. Snuffing is therefore altogether unnecessary. G38. Thenc candles (jive a remarhahJy clear steady light, and always of the same bright- ness. From the wick being double, it gives almost the effect of two flames united, and the air having access to the centre, has the effect of consuming the smoke. G39. It is to be observed that Palmer's patent is for the candles just described, but not for the candlestick in which it is used : this is made by various persons. In order that the flame may always be at the same height, the candle is pressed upwards by a spiral spring h, iu the manner of a coach lamp. In these candlesticks the spring is usually concealed in a brass tube, as at c and d, and the candle is also put into the same tube, which is the most elegant arrangement: but an inconvenience sometimes attends those j the tallow is apt to run down and clog the spring, and the servants seldom know how to clean it out. In the arrangement as at a, the candle being outside, this accident cannot happen; but it is much less elegant. 640. Some add a cylindrical glass round the flame, and over that a ground glass shade This prevents the flickering of the flame which is so troublesome, and conceals the light from the eye. The candlesticks are made of very elegant patterns ; c is a candlestick of this kind adapted for carrying about; and / is a bracket candlestick. They are like- wise made with double lights, and for suspending. This invention is perhaps on the whole the most convenient and elegant apparatus we have for giving light in reading, or for lighting a small room. 641. Mr. Palmer has also made candles of this construction, of a much larger size, which he calls magnum candle lamps, fig. 102. These are calculated, in many cases, to super- sede the table lamp, as one of them is sufficient to light a moderately-sized room. They save a great deal of trouble iu trimming, and have an advantage in point of cleanliness. Of mag-num candles some have four wicks, and these are said to last eight hours, giving a light equal to Argand's lamp. There are also shorter candles with three wicks, that give half the light, and last the same time. His common metallic single wicks, c, fig. 101., are eight to the pound, last eight hours, and give the light of an ordinary mould candle ; with double wicks, six to the pound, a, c, and d, the light of two candles, and last five hours and a half. The price is eleven pence per pound. He likewise makes other varieties ; and some of these candles are of steariue, which are proper for a warm atmo- sphere. Fig. 102. 642. The. Solio candle lamp, invented by Crosse aud Black well,/jr. 103., is made hollow, and a wick is contrived to move up or down through the candle, so as to make that part of the wick above the surface of the tallow higher or lower, thus increasing or lessening the