Book V. 308 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. From this table it will be seen that the price is not simply by the superficial foot or inch, as in many other materials, but that it increases by the square inch according to the size of the plate. It has been observed that some plate glass acquires a purple tinge by exposure to the sun's rays, and that this takes place so rapidly as to be distinctly seen at the end of one or two years in plates that were colourless when new. We may point out as a proof of the great increase of wealth and luxury, the use of plate glass, not only in mirrors, but likewise in windows of houses of the higher class, and even in those of shops, which it is not uncommon to see in London, consisting only of two or three panes of plate glass, and sometimes a single pane of great size. 1361. German plale was a large variety of well-made glass formerly imported, chiefly for the purpose of covering drawings and prints; but England is now independent of any foreign manufacture of glass. The German plate was made by blowing, as above described. 1362. Common bottle glass is of a dark or dirty green colour, and fonns the largest quantity of glass made in Britain. Its composition varies in different parts of the kingdom, being made of coarse sand, lime, and clay, with any alkaline refuse that can be procured, such as soap-makers' waste ashes. Large quantities of this, as well as the other kinds of glass, are made at Newcastle on accoimt of the cheapness of coal, of which only the small refuse, called slack, is used, being found sufficient, and which there costs little more than the carriage. Lime and sea-sand are the materials usually employed for this glass at Newcastle, the mass being frequently wetted with salt water, the soda of which is useful in assisting the fusion. Bottle glass is a hard well vitrified glass, and will resist the corrosion of acid liquors better than flint-glass, and is not so easily softened by heat, having no lead in its composition. The green colour is owing to iron, which is naturally mixed with the materials. In some countries it is made by fusing basalt. On account of the coarseness of the materials of which bottle glass is made, there is frequently much car- bonaceous matter, and this during the fusion is burned and converted into carbonic acid gas, which gets enveloped in the pasty soft glass, occasioning bubbles and blisters which frequently injure and disfigure it. It is necessary, therefore, to keep up the heat after the materials are melted, until the carbon is consumed. Government will not allow the makers of this species of glass to use any but the commonest sand, lest the glass should be too good, and the revenue be defrauded by its being applied to purposes for which the best glass is generally used, and which pays a higher duty. Of this glass are made bottles, garden bell glasses, large chemical retorts, carboys, &c. Thin glass is less liable to break than thick by sudden changes of temperature, and the common green glass than the white: hence the flasks of green glass in which olive oil is brought, generally called Florence flasks, are made very thin, and are particularly useful for boiling liquids where glass is required. 1363. The most usual defects of window glass is the waviness arising from an imperfect mixture of the materials, as also the striaj or threads, knots, and bubbles, which disturb the rays of light in passing through, and produce confused and indistinct vision. It is from the surface of polished plate glass being rendered absolutely flat, that objects are seen through it without any of that distortion which always takes place, more or less, in common glass. These defects are so difficult to avoid entirely, that it has not been possible hitherto to obtain a single pot of glass absolutely free from them ; although this is a desideratum in those glasses which are ground into lenses for telescopes. Since the entire absence of ■ colour is one of the qualities of perfect glass, any kind of tinge is an imperfection. Glass has sometimes a violet hue from too much manganese, or it is green from iron ; and an overproportion of lime is apt to communicate to it a smoky tint. These.colours cannot always be discovered, except by looking at the edge of the glass. When window glass is much warped, there is not only the inconvenience of the objects which are seen through it being distorted, but it frequently happens that it is diflicult to secure it properly in the sashes without using small tacks for the purpose, and if the glazier is negligent the wet gets in. Previous to taking off a considerable part of the duty on glass lately, a large quantity of the smaller glass articles was made in an illicit manner, and these were generally of bad quality, and imperfectly annealed : it went under the title of "Jews' glass." But it is said that less of this is made at present, the price of good glass being considerably reduced. Sect. VI. CUTTING AND GRINDING GLASS. 1364. The art of cutting gla.is is much more modern than that of painting and staining it At present the richness aiid brilliancy of our vessels of glass, which contribute so much to the ornament of our tables and saloons, arc owing, in a great degree, to the elaborate and elegant manner in which they are cut. The cutting is effected by wheels driven by considerable power, the glass being held to the wheels. The first cutting is with