CUAP. IV. 635 DOMESTIC WINES. case, the wine will not turn sour immediately, particularly if it be strong, because there is no ferment to carry it on to the acetous stage. But if the wine be lig-ht, that is, not strong, and the fermentation should have been carried on so far that the wine is dry, that is, not sweet, it is a proof that all the sugar has been expended ; there is then great danger of its passing into the acetous state, and becoming vinegar. In this case, the addition of sugar immediately will prevent this change, as it will serve for the ferment to act upon ; but should the acetous change have already begun, sugar will only accelerate, instead of retarding it ... ■3565. Another fault in domestic wines is excessive sharpness; and this is an accident liable to happen from the prevalence of the malic acid in our native fruits. 3566. The proportion of water to be used in the prepared must is of great consequence ; and Dr. Macculloch reprobates the current practice of using too great a quantity, and too little juice of the fruit—a custom apparently originating in a misplaced economy. In the practice of making wine from grapes in the wine countries, no water is used, but the whole fluid is composed of the juice of the fruit itself; but in the common practice, as recommended in the English domestic receipts, the juice of the fruit rarely forms more than one-third of the whole liquor, and often much.less ; this proportion being also fixed without regard to the ripeness of the fruit. This artificial must, thus compounded of water, sugar, and juice, contains, in general, too small a quantity of the fermenting principle so essential to a perfect fermentation ; the fermentation is too slow, and only a small quantity of alcohol can be the result; hence the liquor is so weak that it soon changes into vinegar. When green fruit is used, in which little exists but acid and fer- ment, of which the former, in this case, exceeds, bulk for bulk, the quantity in ripe fruits, the acid would generally be too abundant, and would require a dilution with water. But in ripe fruits, where the acid is reduced in its proportion, there is not the same necessity for employing water, and a smaller proportion of it wiU be sufficient, and with advantage to the wine. If too little water is used, the juice and sugar are too much concen- trated, the fermentation is brought on with difficulty, and its progress is so slow, that the operator will sometimes conceive, from the time employed, that it has continued long enough when it has scarcely commenced ; and the result is therefore a sweet wine, the fermentation being stopped before all the vinous fluid had been formed. 35G7. Good flavour is a veiy important quality in wine, and our native fruits are mostly deficient in this quality; nor is what they do possess always of the best kind. It is frequently useful, therefore, to introduce substances for the purpose of giving agreeable flavours. Here one caution may be of use : it is not to do too much. Wine may bear a small quantity of a particular flavour with advantage, whereas an increase of the same may be even nauseous. The taste alone can here be the only guide, which must regulate experiments and practice. Various substances are employed by wine-makers with this view : flavours of elder, cowslips, clove-pinks, vines, have all been occasionally used; likewise other flavours may be obtained from sweet briar, wormwood, walnut leaves, oak chips, rose water, sweet and bitter almonds, ginger, cloves, and orris root. The straw- berry and raspberry have a high flavour, but it is difficult to preserve them during the process of vinification, otherwise we might have highly-scented wines. The most con- venient mode of managing all these is to suspend them in a linen bag from the bung- hole of the cask during fermentation ; and care must be taken to taste the liquor frequently, that the flavouring ingi-edient may be withdrawn in time. Astringency, when required, may be communicated in the same way, by catechu and other materials containing tannin or the astringent principle. An agreeable bitterness may be given by burnt sugar, which is likewise capable of producing every variety of yellow colour that can be desired in these, as in the wines of the grape. 3568. Colour is a matter of little comparative moment in our domestic wines. The only fruits of our own growth capable of yielding colour are the black cherry, straw- berry, black currant, raspberry, mulberry, elderberry, and blackberry ; the latter also afibrds a very agreeable flavour. Colour when required may also be communicated by several dye-woods, as Brazil wood, logwood, &c., also oak chips, burnt sugar, &c. Tlie astringent principle is found in the sloe and the damson ; and may, if required, give a roughness like that of port; but this is seldom desirable. 3569. We have already slated that it is necessary to add yeast or tartar in fermenting wine made from our ordinary fruits, although grape juice ferments spontaneously ; but the yeast of beer should not be employed if it can be avoided, since it contains some of the bitter of the hop. It is best, when that can be done, to employ yeast obtained from a former fermentation of wine. The lees of grape wine may be preserved for this purpose in a dried state ; and the yeast of gooseberry wine keeps perfectly well dried. 3570. " It is a prejudice not uncommon," Dr. Macculloch observes, " to suppose that the mines made from tlu; fruits of this country arc unwholesome." "There iii no ilmilit tliiit they may occasionally ilisagrc^e with imlivitluiils, cither from ilcructs in their fabrication, or from tlicir unUcruoing the process of decomposition from pernicious accidental admixtures, or