DIAMOND. Book XXI. 10G5 6378. Diamonds are cut arid polished in particular shapes, which have received the names of brilliant, rose, and table-cut. 6379. TJie brilliant is in the highest estimation, as it is the form which shows to the greatest advantage the peculiar lustre of the gem. It may be considered as composed of two truncated pyramids placed base to base, the upper pyramid being more deeply trun- cated than the lower one. 63S0. The rose diamond is the form given to those stones, the spread of which is too great, in proportion to their depth, to admit of being brilliant cut without a great loss of substance. It is formed by covering the whole surface of the stone with equilateral triangles. 6381. The setting of diamonds is of great importance, and depends partly upon their quality. The finest brilliants are always set open, that is, without a back. Shallow bril- liants, that have a great surface, are generally set close, or with a back of a black substance ; and then frequently much ingenuity is exercised, an inferior stone being sometimes made, by concealing defects, to appear like a perfect brilliant. What are called foils are thin leaves of metal placed under a precious stone, in order to increase its brilliancy or to give it a different colour. They are of gold, silver, or copper. 6382. Diamonds are bought and sold by weight, for which a peculiar standard, called a carat, is universally adopted. The carat is an Indian denomination of weight; and 150J carats is equal to 1 oz. Troy. The carat is divided into four parts, called grains ; and the grains are subdivided into fractional parts, which are ascertained by scales with great nicety. Sometimes the weight is expressed simply in grains ; as a diamond of two carats, or of eight grains. The smallest flaw greatly lessens their value ; and the same happens if they be tinged with any dull tint of yellow or brown, though defects are not unfre- quently concealed by the mode of setting. 6383. Rough diamonds are valued by squaring the number of carats they contain, and multiplying the product by 2, which will give the value in poimds sterling. Thus, for a rough diamond weighing 4 carats, 4 x 4 x 2 = 32/.: and so in other cases. As wrought diamonds are supposed to have lost half their original weight in cutting and polishing, the square of double their weight, in a finished state, must be multiplied by 2 : thus to value a wrought diamond of 3 carats, 6 x 6 x 2 = 72/. Or the weight may be squared, and the product multiplied by 8, which will give the same result; 3 x 3 x 8 = 72/. Brilliants from 1 to 2^ grains are worth from 11. to SZ. Those from 5 to 6 grains are worth from 14/. to 15/. Brilliants of 4 carats are worth from 28/. to 30/.: those of 4 carats are worth 100/.: those of 5 carats are rare ; they may vary from 180/. to 200/. 6384. In the purchase and sale of diamonds by private individuals, it should be remem- bered that there is a material difference between the jeweller and the diamond merchant, though sometimes, but not often, the two trades are combined. The diamond merchant is a trader who buys rough diamonds, and employs his men to cut and polish them. He offers them for sale in this state in single stones or in lots, agreeably to the desire of the purchasers. The)' are not set, but laid openly on a sheet of white paper, so that there can be no possibility of concealing flaws or enhancing beauty by any of the artifices often practised in setting. The diamond merchants are very limited in number, and are gene- rally men of opulence, well acquainted with the details of the art of cutting, but little known except to the importers of rough diamonds and to the trade. Persons who, from the pressure of necessity, or from other motives, may be induced to convert their diamonds into specie, should carry them to the diamond merchant: he will take them from their setting, weigh them, and offer the fair market price for them, without taking advantage of the inexperience or the embarrassed feelings of the owner. The business of the jeweller is to set the diamonds in such form as is most tasteful and agreeable to his customer, and so as to show them to the greatest ad^fantage. He pur- chases from the diamond merchant such stones as he has a demand for, or supposes to be saleable, and forms them into necklaces, ear-drops, rings, &c. Setting costs but little : a hoop ring consisting of 12 stones, suppose the 12 stones to weigh 1 carat, may cost, on an average, about 24.5.; a cross, 13 or 14 stones, gold and open, .50s.; a necklace 16 inches long, and composed of 28 or 32 stones, might cost, to set in gold, about 15/. The diamond merchant charges for his diamonds a regular wholesale price, and gives, perhaps, six months' credit. The jeweller charges what he thinks proper above the price which he has given, or according to the nature of the jewel; or, if it be made to order, according to the opinion he may entertain of his customer. Diamonds, when set, always appear larger than they really are; and even the most experienced dealer will not venture to pronounce on the exact value of a diamond when set. As their value is ascertained by their weight, a working jeweller can take them out of the setting In a few minutes, when their proper value can be ascertained. 6385. Ladies who purchase jewels should always inquire what weight of diamond is in any particular jewel, and of what weight are certain single diamonds ; how many of the smaller stones, for instance, are in a carat; by which means they will easily ascertain