991 SILK FABRICS FOR DRESS, ETC. I Chap. V. t formerly much more used in dress than at present. Its origin is not known, hut it has 1 been made in Europe for centuries ; at first, its manufacture was confined to Italy, -where, : and also at Genoa, it was carried to great perfection. The manufacture then reached : France, and afterwards Spitaltields. The name comes from the French vellour, which is . derived from velu, covered with hair. Velvet is distinguished from every other kind of i cloth by the soft pile on its surface, from which its great beauty results. It has this pile i in addition to the usual warp and weft which it has in common with plain fabrics. The I pile is occasioned by the insertion of short pieces of silk thread doubled under the weft, : and which stand upright on its upper surface in such a multitude, and so crowded together, : as entirely to conceal the interlacings of the warp and weft. The woodcut,/^. 788., repre- Fig. 788. c c c d, i d d sents on a large scale the disposition of the I ' r\ (~\ C\ WWWWWWIli threads in velvet, which are produced in the ,_\.,_^JL1U loom by means which cannot he explained —y*^—.>^^_^*>.=»»''^-.^'^—^ without going into a detailed description of t that machine, and the mode of weaving it, which would be foreign to our present object. ' The lines a a represent the threads of the warp, and the black dots are the threads of the ■ weft crossing them. The line b passing into the web, and under the weft, forming loops at I top, c, c, c, represents the thread intended to form the pile. As the weaving goes on, these 1 loops, c, c, c, are cut through with a sharp instrvmient, and when divided, their cut ends ; stand out each in the form of a little brush, d, d, d, and being extreme!)' close, the fibres 1 of the threads separating produce the required pile. The surface of this pile is at first ■ very irregular, but it is made perfectly even by subsequent processes, being cut by ma- I chinery, &c. The warp and pile of good velvet are both composed of organzine silk, and i its richness depends upon the relative number of its pile threads. The manufacturers are I accordingly accustomed to designate velvets of different degrees of richness, as velvet of ; two, four, or six threads, according to the number of pile threads which are inserted ■ between each of the dents of the reed. The Spitalfields velvets are so much improved of ' late, both in fineness and durability of their colours, that they may vie with any foreign velvets. Velvet is sometimes imported from Germany, having the pile of an inferior silk ' that has been gummed ; but on wearing, this soon looks very ill. The Chinese also : manufacture velvets, but they are inferior to the European. Velvet is either plain, that is, smooth and uniform, without either stripes or figures ; or it is figured or ornamented with various figures, though the ground be the same as the figures ; or the velvety figures may be on a satin ground. Cut velvet has a ground of a kind of tafifety, or gros de Tours, and the figures velvet. The best manufactures of velvet have been in France, Italy, and Holland; but it is now made in great perfection at Manchester and other parts of England. Velvets that are the worse for wear may be greatly restored by passing a hot iron over the wrong side, while another person holds the velvet tight; this raises the pile; and then the garment should he brushed, or whisked with a fine whisk, such as is sold by the Dutch women. 5835. Barcelona kerchiefs are named from Barcelona in Spain, from which they were originally brought, though now all made in England ; they are of four kinds, black, of plain colours, turban checks, and fancy. The black are more for use than show, and measure from twenty-six inches square to seven quarters. The turban checks were ori- ginally made for head-dresses, and are about twenty inches square. 5836. Bandana handkerchiefs are properly Indian, though those made in England in imitation of them are likewise termed Bandana. The black are generally English, though a few come from India. India handkerchiefs not only wear much longer than British, but have the advantage of keeping the colour to the last; but as the patterns are not so elegant as ours, India silk is sometimes imported plain, and printed here. They are twilled and plain. 5837. Ribands are a very ancient part of the silk manufacture, and are known to have been used as an ornamental part of dress previous to 1332. They were made in France long before their manufacture was introduced into England ; at Lyons it is carried to the greatest perfection. Coventry is the principal seat of the riband manufacture in England, which there gives employment to 10,000 persons; of tlie looms, about one-third are what are called single looms, of a peculiar construction, which weave only one breadth at a time, and are mostly employed in the manufacture of figured ribands ; but looms are also constructed called engine looms, which weave several ribands, from eight to twenty-eight at once. Steam is extensively employed as a moving power. At one time the French ribands excelled ours ; but the Coventry weavers have nuide so marked an improvement in their art since the legalised importation of foreign manufactured silks, that their ribands are perhaps nearly equal to those of the French looms ; and notwithstanding this improve- ment, they are 20 per cent, cheaper than formerly. Ribands are frequently ornamented with what is called a pearl edge, which is formed by some of the threads of the weft pro- jecting beyond the rest. The inferior ribands are made of Bengal silk ; but the best are made of silk from Italy. Riband is woven in pieces of thirty-six yards each.