Chap. VI. PARTS OF A CARRIAGE, 1125 pin passes. To hold the lubricating grease better, the inside of the box is sunk into To prevent friction in wooden axles, soap or black lead are the best materials; for common coarse axles, a thick unctuous grease is the best adapted; but for iron axles, which are accurately made and fitted to the boxes, there is no lubricating substance equal to oil of the purest kind, and freed from mucilage or gelatine, according as it may be of vegetable or animal production. 6686. Various patents have been taken out for axle boxes, but the most esteemed is Collinge's. This possesses the advantages of being very durable, giving a steady and silent motion to the wheels, and retaining the oil to prosecute a journey of 2000 miles without requiring to be replenished, i {fig. 887.) is the axletree arm made as perfectly cylin- . ° drical as possible, and of a peculiarly hard surface, the middle reduced in diameter so as to form a recess to contain the oil necessary to feed the axletrees at the two bearings, b b, having a shoulder, c,against which the wheel-box, k k, takes its bearings ; the * adjoining collar is grooved for a washer to preserve ^'S- 887. (Ijg oii^ and to prevent noise in its use, with a rim on the collar of the axletree. The end, /, is double-screwed, to receive two nuts for securing the wheels ; one screw turns the way of the wheel; the other the reverse, and is meant as an additional security. ^ is a cap which covers the nut and receives the waste oil; it is made of brass and screwed on. In order to insure greater durability and greater freedom from friction, these axles and their boxes are always case-hardened, and the rubbing surfaces highly polished. These axles, excellent as they are, however, Mr. Adams observes, are not without their defects. Should, by any carelessness, the surface be suf- fered to be without oil, they fit so close that they would become hot by friction, and stick fast; likewise, should the smallest quantity of grit get in, it would cut into the metal and prevent motion. A patent has been taken out by Mr. Mason, which, according to Mr. Adams, remedies these defects. It is sometimes objected to Collinge's axles, that if any accident happens to them, such as a wheel sticking fast in the country or on the Continent, their complication renders it a difficult matter to put them to rights. But this objection, observes Adams, is not of much force ; for, if necessary, commoh boxes for grease may be applied to them as easily as to any others. 6687. The pole is applied when the carriage is put to use; it is fixed in the chops of the futchels, and secured by an iron pin. At the front end of the pole is a double staple, to which leathern straps called pole pieces are attached, to hold the horses in proper position, and to prevent the carriage from over running them when descending a hill. 6688. T7ie coach box always forms part of a cOach and a chariot, and also occasionally of some other carriages. The objection to it is, that it obstructs the view of the country from the front windows in travelling, and it is then frequently removed; but it is less fatiguing for the driver than when he rides one of the horses, and is also easier for the horse. The obstruction to the view is of less consequence in town. There are several kinds, the standard, the Salisbury, the travelling coach-box, and the chaise coach-box. The two first will be mentioned under " Boot;" the travelling coach-box, sometimes called a dickey box, has a low iron rail round for the security of the driver; and the last resembles nearly a small chaise, in case the owner wishes to drive himself The coach- man's seat is stuffed with straw, and is covered with baize ; it is made higher at the ends than in the middle, to give a more secure seat. This is covered by the hammercloth. 6689. The hammercloth is a constant appendage to the town coach and chariot. It is made of strong cloth stiffened with tarpaulin, and is contrived to hang in large folds. The top and bottom are ornamented with bands of lace, and the bottom has besides a deep fringe; some have a crest on the side. 6690. The boot is a box covered with black leather, placed on the fore part of the upper carriage for the purpose of carrying luggage. Boots are of various forms. Some are square, called platform boots, for holding trunks, &c., and then the coach-box is supported over it by upright standards of wood or iron; but that called the Salisbury boot is very generally used for town coaches; horns project upwards from it to serve as a support for the coach-box, and the coachman's foot-board is also a part of it. Formerly, a kind of boot called the budget was very common in travelling-carriages for luggage. A boot behind, with a seat for two servants, is called a rumble. 6691. Da.ihing or spla.ihing frames are fixed to the fore part of open carriages to keep ofi" the dirt splashed up ; they are made of leather strained upon iron frames (fig. 883.) in the Tilbury. A curved sort has lately been introduced on each side of the body steps, to keep off the dirt from the wheels, borrowed, apparently, from the droitzsehka. It is shown in the pilentum (fig. 867.). 6092. Lamps. — In carriages, the term lamp is applied to the case or lanthoi-n that holds the light, whether that be given by a candle or oil. The simplest are wax caudles 4 C 3