90S Chap. I. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Anchoft/ essence is one of the most esteemed of the essences. For those -who prefer to liave it home-made, it will be necessary to remark, that success in making it depends greatly on having anchovies which have been long enough pickled so as to dissolve easily without giving a rusty flavour to it. In choosing the fish, take care that you do not pur- chase sprats instead of anchovies, which are often sold for them ; also avoid having those in which red paint has been put into the pickle in order to improve the colour of the fish. Having observed these precautions, take a pound of the best anchovies you can get, and put them into two quarts of water, with two bay leaves, some whole pepper, a little scraped horse-radish, thyme, two blades of mace, six eschalots chopped small, a wine-glass of port wine, and the rind of a lemon ; boil all together for twenty minutes, rub them through a tamis, and pour the liquor into pint bottles; these must be corked down and kept in a cool yet dry place. 5192. Soi/.—^ This sauce, much used for fish, comes from Japan, and is called there soja. It is made from the seeds of a plant called Dolichos soja. Some is also brought from China, but the Japanese is the best. It is supposed to be extensively counterfeited in this country. When genuine, it is of an agreeable flavour, neither too salt nor too sweet, of a thick consistence, and clear brown colour. When shaken in a glass, it should leave a coat on the surface of a bright yellowish brown colour. A somewhat similar sauce may be prepared in the following manner : — Boil a gallon of the seeds of the Dolichos soja till they are soft — and even peas or kidney beans may be used as a substitute ; add an equal quantity of bruised wheat ; put this mixture into a warm place for twenty-four hours, and add a gallon of common saltand two gallons of water. Shake the whole together, and put it into a stone jar, where it should remain closed up for two or three months, during which time it should frequently be shaken. After this time, the liquor should be pressed out through a sieve, which will constitute the soy. An inferior kind may be procured by putting salt water upon what remains, and treating it in the same manner. 5193. Essence of ham.—Cut of lean ham three or four pounds into pieces about an inch in tliickness ; lay tliem in a stew-pan with slices of carrot, parsneps, and three or four onions. Let them stew till they stick to the pan. but do not burn. By degrees pour in some good veal gravy, a few fresh mushrooms (or mush- room powder), truffles, morels, cloves, parsley, leek, basil, and a crust of bread ; cover it close and simmer it till it gets thick, then strain it off for use N.B. This essence is sold in the shops for three shillings a pound ; and as a small quantity will give a strong flavour, it is by no means an expensive essence. 5194. Soup herb spirit Of lemon thyme, winter savoury, sweet marjoram, sweet basil, half an ounce each ; lemon-peel grated, two drachms ; eschalots, the same; celery seed, a drachm avoirdupois weight. Infuse these in a pint of brandy or proof spirit for ten days. Neither wine nor vinegar will extract the flavour of the ingredients so well as the spirit. 5195. Spirit uf savoury spice.—Black pepper, an ounce ; allspice, half an ounce {fineli/ powdered); nutmeg grated, a quarter of an ounce avoirdupois weight. Infuse these in a pint of brandy or proof spirit for ten days. 51UG. Soup herb spirit and spirit of savoury spice, mixed in the proportion of half a pint of the herb spirit to a quarter of a pint of the savoury spice spirit, form a valuable auxiliary in the kitchen in heightening the flavour and giving an immediate finish to soups, s.mces, ragouts, &c. They will keep for twenty years. 5197. Relish for chops An ounce of black pepper, half an ounce of allspice pounded fine, an ounce of salt, half an ounce of scraped horse-radish, and the same of eschalots peeled and quartered ; put these in- gredients to a pint of mushroom or walnut catsup ; let them steep for a fortnight, then strain them off. A tea-spoonful or two of this mixed with the gravy sent up with chops, or with melted butter, is an agreeable addition. 5198. Essences likewise of the various flavouring substances may be prepared by pro- curing their essential oils, and adding them to proof spirit; a few drops of this will answer nearly the same purpose as the fresh herb ; but as they are extremely powerful, they must be employed with a cautious hand, drop by drop, until the article to be flavoured has acquired the proper taste. These domestic essences are now very generally used, on account of the superiority of the flavour they impart, and their economy. The following essences are now kept in the shops :—Essence of allspice, bitter almonds, cassia, cin- namon, cloves, lemon, nutmegs, ginger. Tinctures may be made by infusing the sub- stances in proof spirit or French brandy ; these are superior to the essences; some examples of these are the following : — 5190. Essence of lemon-peel—Add gradually one drachm of oil of lemons to two ounces of the strongest rectified spirit. A few drops of this will give all the flavour of the rind of the lemon ; and is very convenient for punch, blanc-mange, jellies, negus, lemonade, pies, puddings, ragouts, Xc. 5200. Tincture of lemon-peel— Put the rind of lemons into brandy or jiroof spirit. In a fortnight the tincture will be ready. Tincture of Seville oranges may be made in the same way. The olio saccltarum of lemon may be preserved by rubbing lumps of sugar upon lemon-peel, so as to take lip the essential oil of the lemon, and these may he kept in a pot, pressing them well down. 5201. Essence of pimento— Add one drachm of oil of pimento to two ounces of proof spirit. This is very useful in making mulled wine, or gravies ; a few drops will suffice. 5201!, Tijicture tf allspice is made by steeping three ounces of pimento in a quart of proof spirit, occasion- ally shaking It during a fortnight. 520.3. Essence and tincture of nutmeg are made in the same way. 520'l. Essence of cinnamon Add one drachm of oil of cinnamon to two ounces of rcctlfled spirit of wine. 5205. Tincture of cinnamon Steep grated or bruised cinnamon in proof spirit for a fortnight. 520(;. Tincture of celery, thyme, savoury, marjoram, basil, Sie. may be made by steeping these herbs for a fortnight in proof spirit or French br.andy. A lew drops will be sutlicicnt for flavouring soups, &'c. 5207. Compound essences and tinciurei may likewise be made by exposing two or more of these substances tugLthcr to the actiou of spirits.