Chap. I. 1157 MANAGEMENT OF COWS. fitted up like the cow-house, only on a reduced scale. Great cleanliness is particularly important. 6858. A feeding-shed for cattle is a useful appendage, where the cows can be in the open air occasionally, or while the cow-house is cleaning: it may have a rack or manger for food. A room for steaming food for cattle, and for washing potatoes and other roots, is likewise found convenient. 6859. The sorts of food to be given to cows that are kept in houses, with little or no access to fields, must depend, in a great degree, upon what is to be procured in the locality ; but it may be well to point out the usual kinds. Cut grasses, natural or artificial, such as lucerne, clover and vetches, being generally plentiful in the neighbourhood of large towns, are frequently sold in bundles, and should be given, if possible, fresh cut, and before it has had time to wither. Hay has been sufliciently described when treating of horses, and forms great part of the food of cows, particularly in the winter: it should he of the best quality. Straw is likewise used, of which oat-straw is the best. Fresh grains from breweries, public or private, can generally be procured in all towBS, and are much used in some places, as in milk establishments ; but though they occasion a great flow of milk, it is of a poor kind. The grains should, if possible, be fetched three times a week, that the cows may have them perfectly sweet, for they will refuse this food as soon as it acquires an ill taste. In the neighbourhood of London, where the cow- keepers make great use of grains, it is the practice to put it into pits, in which they tread it down and cover it close, by which it will keep fresh for a month or two. It may like- wise be packed very close in casks, which should have holes in the bottom to drain oS the moisture; for this purpose sugar-casks, which may be purchased very cheap at the grocers', answer very well. Those who have gardens of any extent usually have some spare vegetables for the cows, from which the rotten leaves should be carefully separated. Roots of all kinds, as carrots, parsnips, mangel-wurzel, and potatoes are excellent food for cows. Turnips are likewise much used, but they impart a disagreeable flavour to the milk and butter ; the Swedish less than the others. It has been asserted that this unpleasant flavour may be corrected by mixing a small quantity of saltpetre with the mUk ; but this has scarcely any effect. Linseed, pea, and oatmeal mixed with other food improves the quality of the milk ; and mashes of bran and pollard have the same effect. 6860. It is not a general practice with us to prepare food for cows by coohery; yet it is well known that most vegetable substances have their nutritive properties developed and improved by some kind of culinary preparation. Some trials have been made in boiling and steaming roots, and it is thought with advantage. Bran, which contains but little aliment, is improved by steeping it in water, and allowing it to ferment; in Prussia it is the practice to prepare winter food for their cattle, by making cabbages and beets into a kind of sour-crout. 6861. The grasses, when they can be procured, form the best summer feeding in-doors, or, as it is termed, soiling; and hay and carrots constitute the most salubrious and best fodder for winter. Succulent vegetables of all kinds contribute much nutriment to cows, and increase the quantity of their milk ; and milch cows may be maintained through the winter in a milking condition by giving them some of these with soimd wheat or oat straw with, or even without, hay. 6862. In beginning cattle with green food in the house, after they have been used to dry, it must be given at first sparingly, lest the}' should eat more than is proper ; thus tares, lucerne, and clover, which cattle relish extremely, would, if eaten too greedily, ferment in the stomach, engendering air and causing disease. If they have more than they can eat, they will blow upon it, and afterwards reject it; and it is proper to re- move it from them before they are quite satiated. Straw or hay should be given as fodder to correct the laxative effect of the grasses and raw roots ; and in general, it is proper to vary the food of cattle somewhat to cause them to relish it. 6863. To keep cows in the best condition for milk, they should have hay of the first quality in the winter season, and this in an imlimited degree, that they may always feed till they are perfectly satisfied ; and when the weather permits, they should have access to meadow land, where they may feed on such green vegetables as are present, which will give their milk and butter a greater degree of richness ; if they are always kept in- doors, and foddered with straw, their milk cannot be expected to be so good. Common salt is much relished by cows, and when added in moderate quantities to their food is said to improve their milk, and likewise their general health. 6864. It is very essential that milch cows should be kept always in good condition ; as, when they are ever suffered to become very lean, particularly in the winter season, it is impossible that they can be brought to afford a large quantity of milk, except by getting them into perfect condition in the summer months. 6865. The times for feeding should be as soon as possible after daylight in the morning, 4 E .3