( iiAP. III. THE TEETH.— THE EAR.— THE EYES. 1031 CHAP. II. THE TKETH. 6113. Without going into the description of the anatomical structure of the teeth, we may observe, that they are composed of an internal part of bone, and an external coating of a harder substance, called enamel which consists of phosphate and a little carbonate of lime in a very dense form, without any gelatine. Each tooth has a root or fang, an artery, a vein, and a nerve; and it is the exposure of the latter to the air that frequently causes the toothache, when this is owing to what is termed a hollow tooth; in other words, when part of the substance of the tooth has been destroyed by caries. Teeth are of three kinds : front teeth or incisors, for cutting the food ; eye teeth, for tearing; and molar or double teeth, for masticating or grinding. When the teeth decay and are lost, the digestion suffers from the deficient mastication of our food : hence health as well as comfort depends much upon their preservation. When any are lost, it is advisable to have them replaced by artificial ones ; which, if done well, will serve the purpose of mastication. If the caries is discovered at any time, by observing a small hole in one of the teeth, it may be filled up or plugged, which generally prevents the decay from spreading farther. The good colour of the teeth gives an idea not only of good health, but of a proper attention to cleanliness and good habits. They should be washed every morning and evening; but merely washing the mouth with water is not sufficient, it is necessary to use a brush, with or without tooth-powder. If the teeth are neglected, they are apt to be covered partially by an incrustation of a hard stony substance, called tartar, which tends to destroy them by injuring the gums. The formation of this substance is prevented by frequent cleaning and brushing : if it has taken place, it should be removed by the dentist, and not by acids, as some impro- perly recommend. Too frequent brushing also with rough tooth-powder will wear off the enamel, and produce the evil it was intended to avoid. Some receipts for proper tooth-powders will be given. Many of those advertised for sale are pernicious, as well as the tinctures. 6114. Safe tooth-powders may be had of respectable dentists ; but the following is recommended by Mr.,Brande : — " Finely powdered charcoal forms an excellent powder ; it cleans the mouth mechanically and chemically; but as alone it is dusty, and not easily miscible with water, it may, for this pui-pose, be mixed with an equal weight of prepared chalk ; and, if requisite, scented with a drop or two of oil of cloves." Another tooth- powder consists of prepared chalk, with a little Peruvian bark, bole ammoniac, cream of tartar, and orris root; or charcoal made of burnt bread pounded and sifted, a little salt, and orris root. It is to be observed that the cream of tartar is hurtfiil, owing to the excess of its acid. 6115. Tlie breath.—When this is of an unpleasant kind, the cause generally lies in the lungs or the teeth. The treatment of the former does not come within our limits; it is only for us to say that health must be sought for ; nO specific remedy will be of any avail as a pei-manent cure. When it is owing to the teeth, what we have already said may be sufficient. For other details respecting the teeth, the reader is referred to the Book XXVI., on " Health and Sickness." CHAP. ni. THE EAR. 6116. This is a delicate organ, and must be treated with great caution. Almost the only thing that is safe is to wash it daily externally and internally with simple water as far as a towel with the finger can reach. The practice of using ear-pickers is scarcely safe, and has been known to produce deafness by injuring the ear. In case of incipient deafness of some duration, an experienced surgeon should be consulted : some of those persons who assume the title of aurists are not to be depended upon. CHAP. IV. THE EYES. 0117. Every one must be aware of the value of preserving tliese unimpaired as long as possible, and also of knowing what remedy to apply when they become defective 3 U 4