FRENCH COOKERY, 922 Book XIV. SuBSECT. 7.— Entrees of Rabbits. 53.39. Babbits a I'Orlie. — If large, the rabbits must be filleted; if small, marinaded in joints; the small bones to be taken out and put into the preparations of game consomme. Detach the fillets of four rabbits and marinade them for two hours in lemon-juice, parsley, thyme, eschalot cut in pieces, bay leaf, salt, and pepper. Drain, and dip them in white of egg well beaten, and into flour mixed with a few crumbs of bread. Fry of a fine brown, and serve under them a poivrade or espagnole of game. 5340. Scollops of rabbits and truffles. — Detach the fillets of five rabbits, and tear off the sinews; scollop the fillets, keeping the knife on the slope; with the handle flatten the scollops, and put them into the saute pan with melted butter; peel and slice some truffles of the size of the scollops, and mix them with the rabbits ; butter, salt, and pepper. Fry lightly twenty minutes before serving, and leave the scollops in the sauce to imbibe the flavour of the truffles. Garnish the dish with a conte. 5341. Blanquvtte of rabbits with ureen peas Detach the fillets of four rabbits, soaking them whole in melted butter, with seasoning of salt and pepper ; cut them on a sheet of paper the size of a shilling, and put them into tlie sauce a blanquettc aux pois. This entree may be sent up in a vol au vent, or cisserole of rice. 5342 Rissoles nf Itubbits. — Makcyi'nf farce of the remnants of roasted rabbits ; make a light, but not rich, puff paste, and roll it out; cover at equal distances the paste with lumps of the farce, moisten the paste round the farce, fold it over in two, press the paste with the fingers to make it adhere, cut it with a rowel, and fry It till it is of a fine brown colour. If dipped in egg and covered with bread crumbs, they will fry of a better colour. Serve with fried parsley in the middle of the dish. SuBSECT. 8. — EntrSes of Hare. Hare is in England most commonly served as a remove, but may also be introduced as entrees, either in boudins, quenelles, or minces. 5343. Fillets of hare {with blood). — After skinning two hares, thrust the knife along the spine, taking care to bear towards the bone. Tear with your fingers the fillet from the neck down to the legs; leave the thick fleshy part to the leg; introduce the sharp side of the knife to the tender part of the fillet, and the thumb towards the skin. Press your thumb on the sharp side of the blade, that it may not cut the part containing the sinews ; then pull the fillet towards you, and the sinews will remain attached to the leg. Lay the fillets on the table, and flatten them with the knife. Lay them in a saute pan with melted butter, and dust over them salt and pepper. When it is dinner-time fry the fillets and scollop them. Put them into sauce de civet made of the remnants of the hares: add to it the blood of both hares, that the sauce may be of a dark brown. 5344. Fillets of hare en Chevreuil Take fillets of hare, and lard them with bacon, put them into a deep vessel, with salt, pepper, parslej', two onions cut into slices, a bay leaf, some thyme, a glass of vinegar, and half a glass of water. I>et the fillets marinade in this two days ; then put them into a saute pan, bake them underdone, and glaze with a light giaze. They are always dark enough without the colour being deepened by the glaze. Serve with poivrade sauce under. SuBSECT. 9. — Entries of Quails. 5345. CompStc qf quails. — Quails are fashionable rather from their rarity and expense than from their real excellence. A white compete of quails is made in the same manner as compote of partridges, the only dif- ference being in the use of broth of veal instead of gravy. Thicken the same with yolk of eggs, and serve the onions white, the same as mushrooms. 6346. Quails with peas. — Put into a stew-pan six quails moistened with a poLMe, or with two spoonfuls of broth, a bunch of parsley, a bay leaf, some thyme, one clove ; stew for twenty minutes over a slow fire. Drain them, and let them boil for a moment with peas and bacon. Next dish the quails, reduce the peas, and mash with them. 5347. Quails H la Crassandine. — These are dressed as pigeons or partridges a la crassandine. Serve them with an Italienne, or a consomme a glace over them. SuBSECT. 10. — Entrees of Woodcocks. "Woodcocks and snipes are cooked in very few ways. The most delicate parts are the legs and intestines. They may be cooked in as many ways as young partridges. A puree of woodcocks is also occasionally served. 5348. Salmi of woodcocks. — This operation is the same as a salmi of partridges. Covered with paper, the birds are roasted, but not browned. They are then cut up, and the whole of the skin removed. Put them into a stew-pan to get cold, and prepare the sauce for them with the trimmings of the birds and four eschalots, some slips of ham, a carrot cut in dice, three or four mushrooms, a little parsley root, a bay leaf, some thyme, a clove, eiglit grains of pepper, and the same of allspice. Fry these in a stew-pan with butter, and, when slightly browned, add three glasses of Madeira, six spoonfuls of Es- pagnole and two of consomme. Put in the parings of the birds but not the claws, and stew them slowly for an hour and half; skim the sauce, and add a small bit of sugar, and strain it through a tamis ; lade the sabni hot with slices of fried bread cut in shapes and glazed.