BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. CIO said to have been a favourite wine at the court of London in the reign of James I. The degree: but Dr. Henderson and others observe tliat this is by no means the constant cha- racter of Rhenish wines, many of which, in good years, liave not any perceptible acidity to the taste ; at least not more tlian is common to them with the growths of warmer regions. It would appear from their dryness and brightness, that the saccharine matter and the leaven have completely acted upon each other, and that the latter is all precipitated. Dr. Henderson is of opinion that they owe their durability to this circumstance and to a considerable proportion of tartar, which they retain for a long time ; the greater part of which is at length precipitated. In bad seasons, however, there is no doubt but that the inferior wines contain a portion of malic acid, in consequence of the grapes not having arrived at a state of full maturity. The most celebrated of these wines are fermented in casks, by which the fine aroma is preserved, and then, after being repeatedly racked, are kept for years in very large vessels to mellow. Every one has heard of the tun of Heidelberg, which held six hundred hogsheads, and other prodigious vessels of that kind, in which wine has been kept even for centuries : and it is necessary that these should be always full, more new wine being added when any is drawn off, which, it is thought, contributes to their durability. For the more delicate wines, however, smaller vessels are preferable. It was until lately the custom in Germany to bury earthen vessels filled with wine at the birth of every child, not to be taken up till its marriage. Old Hock, though generous and durable, is considered as less heating, and at the same time more exhilarating than many other wines. 3441. 77ie Moselle wives have, within the last few years, become very fashionable in England, and when iced in the summer, are extremely grateful. They have a great analogy with those of the Rhine, and are generally classed with them, though inferior. The most celebrated are the Brauneberger, Wehlen, &c. Some of the good Moselle wines are cheap, and may be imported into England at three shillings a bottle. Franconia and Suabia supply some white wines, which often pass for those of the Rhine : but in Austria the wines are very inferior and extremely acid. The red wines of Germany are not of a superior kind, and have nothing to recommend them. 3442. Hungarian wines.—The good wines of Hungary are limited to a few districts, although there are abundance of vineyards in the kingdom. By far the most celebrated of the Hungarian wines is Tokay. 3^3. Dr. Bright informs us in his " Travels in Hungary," that it " is raised in the last chain of the Car- pathian liills, in tlie neighbourhood of tlie town of Tokay. The district containing many vineyards extends over a space of about twenty English miles. Throughout tlie whole of this country it is the custom not to collect the grapes till they have become dry and sweet, like raisins, while hanging on the trees. They are gathered one by one ; and it is from them alone that the prime Tokay, or as it is termed, Tokay Ausbruch is prepared, which in 1807 sold for 100 florins the cask of 180 halbes on the spot. They are first put together in a cask, in the bottom of whicli holes are bored to let that portion of the juice escape which will run from them without any pressure. This, which is called Tokay essence, is a syrupy liquor, and generally in very small quantity, and very highly prized. The grapes are then put into a vat, and trampled with the bare feet, no greater pressure being permitted. To the squeezed mass is next added an equal quantity of good wine, and the mixture is allowed to stand for twenty-four hours to ferment, and is then strained. This juice without further preparation becomes the far-famed wine of Tokay, which is difficult to be obtained, and sells in Vienna at the rate of 12/. per dozen. The greater of these vineyards is the property of the emperor: several, however, are in the hands of the nobles." 3444. The Vignerones prepare the grapes while on the vine in the same manner as the Italians do theirs for their famous Lacryina Christi: they go every morning through the vine-rows, and give each bunch of grapes arrived at maturity a twist, and hang it over an adjoining branch of the vine, that the twist may not come out. This partialh' interrupts the ascent of the sap from the roots, and occasions them to dry, yet without wholly cutting off the sap, as this would cause them to dry too quickly, and concentrate the juice so that it would not flow on a moderate pressure. There are four kinds of wine made from the same grapes. Essence, Ausbruch, Masslach, and common wine, or vin du pays. Tlie essence is thick, and seldom per- fectly clear, very sweet and luscious ; it is chiefly used to make up the other, kinds, and when mixed with the masslach forms a wine equally good with the ausbruch, and often sold for it. The principal ausbruch wine, of which presents are made to foreign ambassadors, and w hich is drunk at royal tables, is made up with essence. 3445. Another species of Hungarian wine, called menescr. is said to equal Tokay; next to that in value come the wines of CEdenburg, Rusth, St. Gyorgy, and Ofen, followed by a great many others, whose names are as various as the hills which produce them. It is interesting to remark that all these wines are produced upon soils originally volcanic. - The vines are kept cut down close to the ground. Dr. Henderson well remarks that the Tokay essence corresponds exactly to the syrupy wines of the ancient Romans, and that the Tokay ausbruch, a dry sweet wine, appears much the same with their wine called passum. But Dr. Townson, who travelled into Hungary, notwithstanding the encomiimis passed upon Tokay, is of opinion that much of it does not surpass many of the sweet wines of Spain. Cracow in Poland is the chief deposit of old Tokay, and it has been sold as high as eight ducats a bottle. Hitherto the Hungarian wines have been little known in England, from the difficulty of transportation ; but the improvements now making in the navigation of the Danube may probably be the means of introducing them in greater abundance into the British market. 3446. The Buda wine is very like Burgundy, and perhaps eqtial to some of it. It is