709 Chap. XI. ON COFFEE. should be performed in a close vessel, otlierwise much of the fine aroma will be dissipated in the air. It is usually roasted in a hollow cylinder made of sheet iron, which is kept turning over a brisk fire, to prevent any part from being more heated than another ; and when the coffee has acquired a deep cinnamon colour, and an oily appearance, and the peculiar fragrance of roasted coffee is perceived to be sufficiently strong, it should be taken from the fire, well shaken, and suffered to cool. Not more than half a pound of coffee should be roasted at once for domestic use ; for if the quantity is greater, it becomes impossible to regulate the heat in such a manner as to secure a good result. If the heat be so violent as to burn any part, the whole will be materially injured. Fig. 586. represents a very simple coffee-roaster, being merely a cylinder with a sliding door, turned over a charcoal fire made in the receptacle beneath, with a cover to shut close, and a tube to carry off the fumes of the charcoal. Fiy. 587. is another, of a form a little different. The coffee-roaster should never be filled above one-third ; for by roasting, the bulk of coffee is nearly doubled, and sufficient space ought to remain to allow of turning the coffee readily, that every part may be equally exposed to the heat. Sometimes a similar cylinder of sheet iron is used, but fastened to the spit that is turned by a jack. 4059. In Italy they roast coffee in small quantities very frequently in one of the thin flasks of glass used for oil, which answer extremely well if the roasting is performed over a charcoal tire, and the coffee shaken and turned often. The non-conducting power of the glass is thought to give this material an advantage over metal, as being less liable to burn ; added to which the progress of the roasting can be better watched. One of these flasks will roast somewhat less than a quarter of a pound at a time; and it is perhaps worth while mentioning that this mode is often found useful to the traveller. It is desirable, in the commencement of tVie roasting, that the steam should escape as quickly as possible; and Mr. Donovan recommends, that, instead of roasting the coffee in an atmosphere of its own steam, as is usually done, it should first be dried on an iron pan over a very gentle fire, keeping it constantly stirring so as to present new surfaces, until the colour becomes yellow. In this way the chief part of the water will be dissipated, without exerting any detrimental influence on the substance which is afterwards to form the aromatic bitler. After being thus dried, the coffee should be pounded into coarse fragments, by no means too rme; each kernel, as it occurs, being divided, perhaps, into four or five parts. In this state it is to be transferred into the roasting apparatus, and scorched to the proper degree. It is observed, that when coffee is roasted in tlie usual way, without being broken, a portion often remains in the centre of the beans not suf- ficiently done. 4060. The roasting of coffee for the dealers in London and Paris is now become a separate branch of business, and some of the roasters perform the operation on a great scale with considerable skill; they are guided in the process by the tint of brown produced, and the proper aroma which is prevented by means of their apparatus from escaping. When coffee can be had ready roasted from dealers who roast and gi'ind every day, much trouble may be saved in a family that is not anxious to have the very best; but the retailers, says Mr. Donovan, almost invariably roast their coffee too little; the more it is Toasted, the greater is the loss of weight on it, and the less their profit is at a given price ; and the more of it, within certain restrictions, will be consumed to produce a given flavour. Coffee loses from twenty to thirty per cent, by sufficient roasting ; but if the defi- ciency exceed that, it is injured. Mr. Donovan is inclined to attribute much of the vapid, raw, and poor taste of our coffee, so much complained of by foreigners, to insufficient roasting. It should be observed, liowever, that if coffee be roasted too much, it becomes too bitter, with little flavour. It is found by ejpperience, that the qualities of the beverage depend as much upon judicious roasting, as upon the variety of the raw coffee purchased. 4001. The grinding of coffee is performed by iron mills. A very small portable mill is Z z 3