RECEIPTS FOR FRENCH COOKERY. 923 ( Chap. III. SuBSECT. 11. — Entries of Pigeons. 5349. Compdte of pigeons (broivn). — Pigeons are less used as entrees than as garnitures; ! but are occasionally useful as entrees in intermediate seasons, -when game and young [poultry are not to be had. For a compote of pigeons, take four or six, according to the ■ size of the dish. Pick them clean, and cut off the sinew below the joint of the leg; draw :them, without taking out the liver, but carefully removing all grain from the craw. ■ Truss the legs inward, and make an incision in the back that they may disgorge; put tthem into warm water to draw out the blood. Then cover them with bacon, and stew I them as chickens. Drain them, and serve with a ragout a la financiere. SuBSECT. 12. — Entries of Wild Ducks. 4350. Wild ducks xoilh orange sauce. —Cut out the fillets of three wild ducks; give them : a few slight cuts on the skin side, marinade them for an hour in oil, with young onions 1 broken in two, branches of parsley, salt, large pepper, and the juice of mushrooms, i Immediately before they are to be served, put them into a frying-pan with two spoonfuls (of oil; set them over a good fire, turning them two or three times ; drain and arrange I them in the dish in the form of a crown ; and serve under them orange sauce. 5351. Wild ducks loith green peas. — Prepare and cook the ducks as above ; and make I the sauce in the following way: —Put two quarts of fine green peas into a pan of clean • water with half a pound of fresh butter, mi-ving it with the peas; drain the peas by I taking them in the hand out of the water. Let them dry, and put into a stew-pan a • small bit of fresh butter and half a pound of the best part of a breast of bacon, cut into ! squares of an inch in size. Fry them of a nice colour, and draining away the fat, put in I the peas to sweat; when green, add to them half a spoonful of flour, and moisten with 1 boiling water. Put in the members of the duck, and, when it has stewed sufficiently, serve i it covered with peas. Remember to skim off the fat very carefully. SuBSECT. 13.—Entrees of Larks. 5352. Larks au Gratin. — Take eighteen fine larks; pick and bone them ; season with ! salt and pepper, and stuff them with /h/ ee fine. Put them into a dish with some of the farce ' between them, and ornament the birds with fried bread cut into fanciful shapes and put ■ between the birds. In arranging the birds round the dish, if any remain, raise them in 1 the middle above the rest; cover them with slices of bacon, and bake them for twenty ! minutes; remove the bacon when done, drain away the fat, and serve with an Espagnole of i a good colour and well seasoned. Sect. V. STUFFINGS AND FAUCED MEATS. SuBSECT. 1.—Panadas. 5353. In this department of cooking the French particularly excel, and their superiority in a few niceties which will be fully explained. The usual fault of stuffing is its want of I tenacity ; so that when served up it falls to pieces; and this arises from the materials ' being insufficiently mixed. In order that these preparations may be served in perfection, ■ the cook must have the use of a large marble mortar, with a smooth lignum vita; pestle. The materials of stuffing consist of panada or prepared bread, meat and herbs with ade- ■ quate seasoning. These are to be mixed up and incorporated with sufficient yolk and ■white of egg to bind them together, so that the mass may admit of being boiled, roasted, ■ or fried. This farced meat is employed for the stuffing of poultry, hares, and various joints; it is also rolled into balls which are to be regarded as essential to many made dishes, and especially required in meat pies. In order to prepare the panada, soak a French roll in milk till it is thoroughly moistened, then press the milk out of it through a clean cloth. Put this squeezed bread into a clean stew-pan with some vegetables, as parsley, green onions and button mushrooms chopped fine ; moisten these with a couple of spoonfuls of veal stock, and over a slow fire work them well together with a wooden spoon. When the bread is nearly dry, put in a small piece of butter, and continue to work it for a few minutes longer, then remove it from the fire and mix it well with the yolks of two eggs. This panada is the basis of the farced meat, and when quite cold is to be mixed with the pounded animal substances, as scraped veal, ham, cliicken or sausage meat. These are to be beaten well together in the mortar, and made to combine and adhere together with yolk and white of egg beat up, to which sufficient seasoning is to be added. To ascertain