450 ON FOOD. Book VII. are usually procured from the seeds and kernels of plants by pressure; hence they are often called expressed oils. The substances are put into bags of hemp or hair cloth, and subjected to the action of pressing mills, at first without heat; what is expressed first is the purest oil, and is called cold drawn ; afterwards some heat is applied, by which a second quantity is obtained of an inferior liind. By this process some mucilage is pressed out together with the oil ; and as this deteriorates the quality of the oil, it is afterwards, but with some difficulty, separated, and the oil is said to be purified. Fixed oils, when perfectly pure, are quite transparent, either colourless, or of a pale yellowish or greenish tinge, and without smell or taste ; when they possess these in their ordinary state, it is owing to the mucilage and other matters mingled with them. They are usually fluid, but of thickish consistence, and they congeal at moderately low tempe- ratures ; some are naturally concrete. They combine readily with alkali, forming soaps. Fixed oils do not boil by being converted into vapour until they are heated to 600°. When a sufficient heat is applied, and vapour is formed and then condensed, the con- densed oil is found to have had its properties altered: it has become more limpid and volatile, having lost some of its carbon. When expressed oils are exposed to a warm atmosphere, they gradually acquire a sharp taste and smell, and become thick. This change is termed rancidity, and is owing to their absorbing oxygen. 2356. Fixed vegetable oils are subdivided into fat and dryiny oils. 2357. Fat vegetable oils are those which will not dry or become hard of themselves when spread on any substance, but remain always liquid, or soft and grezisy, in the ordi- nary temperature of our climate. Fat oils in general will not unite with water alone ; yet, by the addition of mucilage or sugar, they mix with it by agitation, and such mixtures are called emulsions. These oils require to be heated to 600° before they boil, and do not inflame until their temperature is elevated to this point. When exposed to the air, they become more viscid, and acquire a degree of rancidity ; but when fresh, they have little or no smell: they are never perfectly transparent, but have always a slight yellowish or greenish tinge. The principal fat vegetable oils in use with us as food are olive oil, rape seed oil, and almond oil: others employed by us only for procuring light, as palm oil and cocoa-nut oil, have been described in Chap. II. Book IV. " On Artificial Illumin- ation." 2358. Olive oil is so useful in domestic economy as to demand more attention. The description of the olive, from the pulpy part of which it is obtained, will be given in Chapter IX. on " Fruits." Olive oil is brought to us from Italy, Spain, and the Ionian Islands, but chiefly from the first of these countries. The best oil known in our markets is made in Florence and Lucca, and comes from Leghorn; but most of our olive oil is Neapolitan, produced in the provinces of Puglia and Calabria Ultra, and called Gallipoli oil fvom the place whence it is exported. A great deal is used by the wool manufacturers. It is pro- duced in the following manner: — The oil is contained in the pulpy outside of the fruit, whereas most other fruits have their oil in the nuts or kernels. The olives are gathered ripe in November, and imme- diately bruised in a mill, the stones of which are set wide enough not to crush the kernel; the pulp is then subjected to the press in bags made of rushes. By the first gentle pres- sure the best, or virgin oil, is obtained ; and by increasing the pressure so as to break the kernels, at the same time moistening the residuum with water, and applying sometimes a slight degree of heat, a second quality is procured, which, though mixed with the water, on being suffered to remain undisturbed, soon separates, and, although inferior to the first, is still fit for the table. Sometimes a third quality is produced by boiling the pressed cakes in -water, and skimming off the oil ; this is used by the soap boiler and other manufacturers. Much depends not only on the quality of the fruit, but also on its being exactly in the proper degree of maturity; if not sufficiently ripe, the oil has a bitterish taste ; if too ripe, the oil is fetty. After the oil has been expressed, it is necessary that it be separated from the mucilaginous matter that accompanies it. For this purpose it is suffered to rest till the mucilage and impurities subside, and the oil is found upon the top. If it be immedi- ately put carefully into clean glass flasks and secured from the air, it undergoes no farther change. The common oil put into casks cannot be preserved above a year and a half or two years. The oil used for the table is sometimes adulterated with poppy oil. This fraud may be detected by exposing the oil to a freezing cold : the olive oil will congeal, while that of poppies will remain fluid. But a contamination of a pernicious kind by lead is said to occur from its having been kept in leaden cisterns, either in Spain, where this is practised, or in this country. Good olive oil should be inodorous, insipid, soft, and agreeable in the mouth. Its analysis, according to Gay Lussac and Thenard, is, in 100, carbon, 77-21 ; hydrogen, 13-3; oxygen, 9-4. 2359. liape seed oil is extracted from the Brassica napiis and catnpestris. It is made chiefly in Flanders, where it is used for the table, and is said to be employed for adul- terating olive oil; but though very pleasant when quite fresh, it is liable to become rancid. 2360. Almond oil. — This oil, being united to much albuminous and mucilaginous