Book XXVL PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1192 brisk exercise is always good for the mother who suckles, as well as for the child suckled; while violent exertions disturb and impair temporarily the qualities of the milk, activity renews it in quantity, and improves it in quality. 7055. Every time an infant has been suckled, a cambric handkerchief or soft rag should be wrapped round the mother or nurse's finger, and the mouth and lips of the child sliould be gently wiped. The milk, if it remains in the mouth, soon becomes acid, and in this state causes a tendency to thrush. 7056. For the first four or five weeks an infant should have no food but that from the breast. If it be possible for the mother to continue the sole supplier of iis nourishment, so much the happier for the infant; but, where this cannot be done, other food must be allowed, the kinds of which usually given to infants will be found mentioned, under the head " Dry Nursing." 7057. Weaning and dry nursing. — The period of weaning suckled children must depend on circumstances. Six months we should regard as the shortest time for suck- ling them — nine months the longest needful, unless there be, in any peculiar case, such delicacy of constitution as may render it desirable that the suckling should be continued to the end of the first year of a child's life; beyond this time we have never seen much good in suckling children, bnt the reverse. They are then arrived at an age in which they begin to require more substantial nutriment. The use of the sucking bottle, (see "Nursery Furniture," Book V. Chap. XIV.) if infants have been fed with it during the period of their suckling, should be continued for a short time after the weaning is begun. In no case would we recommend any sudden means of weaning; any sudden change of diet is trying to an adult, but it is hazardous to a delicate infant. A month at least should be given to the change; during which period, every week should be begun with a diminution of the nourishment afforded by the mother or wet nurse, and a proportioned increase of the substituted food. 7058. Cow's milk does not always appear to agree at first with a suckled infant; when it does agree, no food can be better for children immediately upon weaning. By adding a little tepid water, in the proportion of one third water to three of netB milk, this beverage might be often given with the best effect to children during their weaning. Whatever food they take should be very thin. To secure this important point, the sucking bottle is the best means, as before observed, by which weaned children should, in the first instance, receive their food. Care must be taken to keep it extremely clean, as well as the leather bag by which the baby sucks in the food. 'VMienever the bottle has been used, it should, after being washed, be suffered to remain in a basin of clean cold water till it is again wanted ; the food of children, being either of milk, or mixed with milk, becomes so rapidly sour, if any be left in the bottle or in vessels employed in preparing and warming it, that too much stress cannot be laid on this one point of clean- liness. Sour food cannot fail to disorder the stomach and bowels of children. 7059. Children can hardly be fed too slowly, whether with the boat or the spoon ; the former is now rarely used; it is more objectionable than the spoon, admitting as it does of the food being poured down an infant's throat, rather than drawn in by the child's own efforts. The boat is in form like the old-fashioned butter-boat, and was adopted as a means of avoiding the irritation to which a weaning child would give way (being used to sucking) on the spoon being withdrawn from its mouth to be refilled. But this imita- tion is better than drenching the infant, as it may be considered, with the boat The effect of a large quantity of food suddenly entering the stomach by the boat or by any other means are seen in the child's oppressed breathing, and sometimes in more serious symptoms. 7060. Tlie kinds of food to be given to weaning or dry-nursed children should be of the simplest description: of cow's milk we have already spoken : arrow-root and milk — jiearl sago boiled in water till perfectly soft, and thinned with new milk — msks — biscuit powder —flotir, previously boiled like a pudding in a basin till it is formed into a hard bail, from which portions can be grated into milk, and boiled in it till it thickens the milk are the chief ingredients used as food for children, either dry-nursed from birth, or weaned from suckling. Rice gruel, barley and groat gruels, are also used in some cases, and with advantage ; and as a change in the diet of children is advisable when they are occasionally indisposed, these kinds of gruel may be found useful varieties in the food of children. 7061. Foof/which contains milk should never be warmed over and over again, as is sometimes done. Nor should it be suffered to remain when cold in metal utensils; if intended for future use, it should be put into earthenware basins, and set iu a cool place: but no food thus set by for another day should have milk put into it; this should be added after portions of the food are separately warmed, previous to any of the chdd s meals. , , u , • 7()r,2 Of the consistence of food, it is necessary to observe that none should be given for the first three or four months in the life of a dry-nursed chUd, nor immediately to