HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. ynAP. VI. 33 ivy Palladio, that they should be one sixth of the height of the building ; but this must be ligulated by local circumstances. To ascertain the nature of the bottom, the ground h.iould be struck hard with the rammer: if it shakes, it is loose ; if smaU parts only are I'Dft, they may be removed, though it is best to have all the foundation level. When, lOtwithstanding, the ground is not thought suiBciently firm, recourse must be had to some nrecautions. Piles may be driven, and, over them, oak planks may be laid; or planks kone may be put in the bottom of the trench : charring the outside of these will make baem endure longer. Large blocks of stone may likewise be laid down, particularly at itie corners. 101. If parts onbj of the foundation are soft, arches may be turned from one hard spot 1. another. But the best method of secui-ing the foundation is that which is now very generally practised ; namely, to fill up a certain depth of the trench with what is termed •nncrete, or pebble mortar, which is composed of thin mortar made with lime newly Ijacked, and clean pebbles or stone chippings: when this becomes hard, which it does in sshort time, the whole foundation seems as if composed of a rock, which may be built poon without fear of any cracks or settlements. This kind of mortar is by no means a . jw invention, though its use has been of late revived; for it may be seen in our old idstles and other buildings of great antiquity. SuBSECT. 6. — Walls of Brick and of Stone. 102. The choice of materials for walls must in some degree be determined by the locality, hae comparative price, the style of the structure, the objects in building as far as duration ; conceiTied, and many other points which may vary with different individuals. The materials in general use are brick, stone, and earth or Pise. The building act t'jquires that the materials of walls should be of brick, stone, or artificial stone, and no umber to be used in them, except such as is necessary for planking, bridging, or piling ii ie foundation ; and for templets, chains and bonds, and also the ends of girders, beams, vurlins, binding and trimming joists, or other principal timbers, observing always to leave 1 inches of solid brick-work, between the ends and sides of such timbers and the timbers i f adjoining buildings. 103. The thiakness of walls must of course be regulated by the height and number of tcories in the mansion, and the materials, whether of stone or bricks. It is to be observed haat in brick walls the thickness is in some degree regulated by the size of the bricJis : hius a wall may be 1, 2, or 3 bricks, or 1^, 2|, 3|, &c., but it cannot be 1^, 2|, &c., since hie bricks cannot be cut properly. In stone walls there is no such limitation. 104. The lowest part of the walls is technically called the footing, which should be fi'onsiderably thicker than the wall above, diminishing to that of the walls );y a set-off in each course as it rises. This, as well as the thickness of the i^alls is regulated by the building act, and there can be no better rule than 15 attend to its instructions, even when the building is out of its limits. In i i ;htie first, second,and third rates, the footing must have a width at least 9 inches |l -1^ iiaore than the thickness of the wall above, and the top of it shall be at least six i \ nQches below the surface of the lowest ground or adjoining area, and at least Fig.'n. \i2 inches below the surface of the lowest floor in the house. 105. Partr/ walls are those which divide one house from another ; they must be built ►rith good bricks, and the building act is very particular in requiring them to be of a certain hhickness according to the several rates. No external wall can be converted into a party irall. 106. Wlien stone is employed, the architect must be guided partly by the strength of his nnaterials. The operation of preparing the scaffolding and raising the wall with strict nidherence to the dimensions marked in the working drawings, are subjects of too technical I nature to be entered into here, and must be left in a great measure to the skill of the tradesmen, superintended by the surveyor. A few general hints may be mentioned as things ■>o be attended to. Care being taken to provide the best bricks and mortar, and that the ■Bricklayer uses what is technically called the proper bond in building, the wall shoidd ont •)erun up too hastily, although most persons are desirous of expedition ; in particular, one I'oart should never be worked up higher than another above a few feet at a time, since all if&Us settle or shrink a little when newly built, on account of the softness of the mortar, land if the work be carried up too rapidly, cracks are apt to occur from unequal settling. 107. In dry weather it is \iseful to wet the bricks before they are laid down, in order that ihhe mortar may adhere to them better ; and care should be taken that the bricklayer fill i:in properly the cavities that may happen in the centre of the wall, which they are apt to I neglect. Walls should not be built in frosty weather, since, if the mortar should happen ' to freeze while it is wet or new, it will, on thawing, crumble, and its adhesive property bbe totally destroyed ; therefore such wall will have no strength or durability. In stormy