HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. 332 1S22. 7n preparing for journeys the valet should endeavour to ascertain the probable time of his master's absence, that he may be able to provide a sulllclency of linen and other clothing. At the inns he takes charge of these supplies, and, as at home, places everything in readiness for the periods of dressini; and undressing. Besides this, if his master be unattended by his footman, it is his duty to attend to his accommodutiun gene- rally, as well as in his dressing-room. Whenever his master needs his services, he must be at hand ; even at table, if more than ordinary attendance be required, he must be ready to wait. SuBSECT. 3 Duties of the Butler. The butler ranks as second in a complete establishment. 1523. The butler is chiefly responsible for the management of the wine and ale cellars, and for the direction of the various repasts of the family. 1^24. He is also responsible for the plate, giving it out in due quantities to the under butler to clean, //ii morning dulies mc first at the breakfast table ; secondly, in the wine and ale cellars, in which it is probable he may have to rack, fine, and bottle. Thirdly, he sees that the footman, under butler, and steward's boy, are each engaged in their proper departments. The immediate superintendence of these servants falls on the butler, who is responsilile lor the propriety, neatness, and cleanliness of everything at table, and which can only be effected by eacli department of duty being properly fulfilled. Fourllily, he dresses and stations himself so as to be at hand to open drawing-room and parlour doors to all visiters or members of the family passing to and fro. At luncheon lie waits, unattended by a footman, unless, company being present, the size of the [larty requires more aid. At dinner and tea he also attends; and between these two repasts he answers bells and waits upon the company, while the footmen are engaged in clearing away, and cleansing whatever articles in their department have been used at dinner. At bedtime the bu/ler brings up night candles ; and, when the family and company are retired to their rooms, he locks up the plate, sees that windows and doors are secured, and tires leit in no dangerous state. In addition to these daily cares are those of the wine and ale cellar; the wine required each day he brings from the cellar himself, a short time before dinner; decants it, and keeps it under lock and key till wanted. The servants' allowances of ale he draws him- self ; and at some seasons he has to fine, bottle, cork, seal, and place in the binns, wine purchased in the wood. He has to make regular entries in his cellar stock-book of the number of bottles used, of the age and character of wines in each binn. The brewing, racking, and bottling of ale and other malt liquors belong also to his department of duty. 1525. The butler in establishments of second and third rale undertakes some of the duties of the house-steward and valet, having, like the former, to market, pay bUls, and to super- intend all the other departments of the men-servants as to the daily performance of the duties of each ; and, like the latter, to give also personal attendance, at stated seasons, in his master's dressmg-room SuBSECT. 4. — Duties of the Man Cook. 1526. The man cook is, in this country, found chiefly in the large establishments of princes and noblemen, or in those of very affluent families. He is also occasionally the superintendent of the kitchens belonging to public institutions, to hotels, clubs, &e. He makes out bills qf/are, which are sometimes submitted to the principals for approbation For this part of his duty it is requisite that he should be well acquainted with the high season of every dish (almost every dish having its season), and be able to perceive the exact state of everything he has to prepare. If he cannot make a good selection of the articles which are to be submitted to his skill, he will in vain exert that skill, and his employers will be disappointed in the result. No art can give excellence to an inferior article, or restore qualities which have been destroyed by natural changes in the substances themselves. The man cook, besides superintending the cooking generally, chiefly prepares the rich stews, ragouts, soups, and other dishes of a complicated description, not understood bv ordinary cooks, whose greater variety of business precludes their attainment of the highest degree of proficiency in the art. Excellence in cooking can only be the result of practice and experience ; united to which it must be acknowledged, that reflection and judgment are indis- pensable qualities in the character of a cook. As in chemical experiments one successful result leads a reflective man to attempt others, so, in cooking, one approved recipe may be productive of many varieties. In no dinner party would there be uniformity of taste; and the skill of the cook must therefore be exercised in meeting this with such various flavours as may give to every guest an equal chance of gratification. SiTBSECT. 5. — Duties of the Footman. 1527. Tlie footman's routine of business is, in a complete establishment, of a subordinate description. In the morning he assists in rubbing mahogany furniture in the dining-rooms and libraries; cleans win- dows ; and sets ready for use, in the butler's pantry, all the articles which may be required for the breakfast table, and which, after breakfast, he has again to clean and put by into their proper places. Afterwards he cleans himself and prepares to attend the carriage, to answer bells, or to obey any orders given him Ijy his master or mistress. If he has to follow the lady whom he serves, or any of the female part of the family, in their walks, he is not to consider himself as a mere ajipendage which marks the condition of the family he serves but as a protector from the inconveniences and annoyances which may occur to ladies walking in a thronged and busy place. For this end he should follow his mistress at such a distance as to be immediately at hand if his aid or interposition be necessary, and yet not so'«ncar as to hear conversation which may be passing between her and her companions. At di,inar he ag.-iin attends, having previously assisted to prepare the table for it. Dinner ended, his next duty is to clean and put away the same things, while the butler attends to the bells of the dining and drawing-rooms. At lea he again w.iits ; and, generally speaking his daily avncalions end after the tea things arc brought from the drawing-room, washed, and put away— the Butler usually seeing to every subsequent duty. _ _ 1528. The footman in small establishments of servants, or in families in which only one man-servant is kept, has more general and constant occupation than those who belong to " the complete establishment." In the former case, not being under the control or dictation of a superior servant, the S^"'^'?,'""""Sf,"!™' and management oTl^ emplopnents devolve on himself; and. unless he has method, he will feel hurried