1099 SCOURING, REMOVING STAINS, ETC. IIAP. XII. 6561. Black, blue, and broivn woollen cloths require a different process. The greasy spots 11 list first be plastered over with a paste made with fullers' earth and boiling water, and these places must be dried by the fire or the sun. A little ox-gall must now be mixed with stale urine, adding a little boiling water, still taking care not to reduce the strength too much. IDip a hard brush in this, and brush well the spots which had the fullers' earth, and any l Other places that may require it. Immerse now the whole cloth in cold water, wash off ; the dirt, and hang it up to dry. "When it is neai-ly dry, brush the nap of the cloth the rright way, and to bring on a gloss, pour a very little olive oil in the hand, and passing the thrush over it, brush the cloth over cai'efully and evenly. 6562. Cloth of all other colours, except scarlet, may be cleaned by rubbing the grejisy sspots with a ball of yellow soap, and when this is nearly dry, brushing off the soap with ^wami water. If once is not found sufficient, the process may be repeated. 6563. Scarlet cloth requires peculiar care in scouring, as the dye is liable to be dis- i charged. Kthe cloth is not much soiled, it may be cleaned by washing it in bran water, rmade by pouring boiling water on bran placed on a hair-sieve, adding to the liquor a little > white tartar ; the process may be repeated if necessary. If the colour begins to discharge, ; a drop or two of the solution of muriate of tin must be added to a second liquor, of the ;same kind, and the cloth be kept immersed in it for ten minutes, and then be wrung out , and dried. If the scarlet cloth is much soiled, the worst parts must be brushed with soap i dissolved in warm water, or the whole must be dipped in strong soap and water, and 1 rubbed quickly; but as soon as the colour begins to give, it must be removed and rinsed ■ out in warm water into which some muriate of tin has been put ; after remaining in this I for ten minutes, it should be dried in the shade, in a warm room ; it may then be cold- I pressed. 6564. In London, in which there are professed scourers, window curtains of moreen are ! generally given to them to clean, if the colour is not too faded. They usually charge ; about sixpence per yard ; if watered, about two-pence more. 6565. Carpets and hearth-rugs maybe cleaned in the following manner:—If they are ■ very dirty, they are perhaps best sent to the scourers ; but if not, after being well beat, I they are to be laid down, and all the spots of grease removed by laying on them a hot I paste of fullers' earth, and next day, when it is dry, brushing it off. The whole of the 1 carpet must now be rubbed over, a piece at a time, with a flannel on which soap has been ! rubbed, wetted in water that has a little soda dissolved in it, and as soon as a part is thus ' cleaned, the soap must be removed by another clean flannel, and plenty of clean warm water. Some prefer ox-gall instead of soap, or mixed with the soap, as less likely to in- jure the colours, using more gall with the water where the spots are worst. Lastly, the carpet must be finished by rubbing with a clean dry flannel, and dried thoroughly by setting the windows open to remove the smell. If the carpet is very dirty, and not valuable, it may be scoured as a blanket, and beat with a doll, though this is apt to injure some colours. Professed scourers have a large scouring board, across which they draw the carpet, to get at it more conveniently ; and they rub the dirtiest parts with a piece of soap dipped in boiling water. 6566. The following receipt for the same purpose has been given in the " Workwoman's Guide :" — Dis- solve an ounce and a half of alum in a quart of warm water ; also one ounce and a half of fullers* earth in another (juart of warm water ; put a little of each into a bucket full of soft water, adding a very little gall, and rubbmg in some common brown soap. Then wash a small piece of the carpet with a flannel dipped in this mixture, so as to make it rather wet; and, to show the colour, brush it over with soap, which must be well washed off, and the carpet rubbed over with a coarse cloth. Then wash it over with soap and water in which gall, alum, and fullers' earth are mixed, and rub it as dry as possible with a cloth. When the whole carpet is washed over in this manner, piece by piece, it will appear as fresh and bright as a new one. The quantities here given are enough for a large carpet. Another way Boil some bran in water, and with this wash the carpet with a flannel and brush, using fullers' earth for the worst parts. When dry the carpet must be well beaten to get out the fullers' earth, then washed over with a weak solution of alum to brighten the colours. 6567. To clean coach-linings of cloth, or coarse cloth of any kind, dip a brush in warm gall, and go over the greasy parts ; this will dissolve the grease, and the parts may be rinsed in cold water. Having dried the cloth, take fine sand a little damped, and strew it over ; then beat the sand in with a brush, and brush it off again. 6568. Clothes powder for cleaning cloth or kerseymeres of every kind is useful to travellers. It is made by mixing a pound and a half of pipe-clay, an ounce of starch, and two ounces of spirits of wine. Each article should be powdered separately very fine, and the whole mixed together, adding the spirits, a few drops at a time, and breaking the knots ; pack it when made in boxes for travelling. An ounce of white pepper added will keep away moths. To use it, sprinkle a small quantity of the powder on the cloth, and rub it in ■with the hand, then brush the powder out with a clothes-brush. Should there be any spots of grease, put a little of the powder on them with boiling water, and let it lay on till dry, then brush it off. 656'J. Of printed cottons, some will bear washing in the ordinary way with soap ; others will not without the colours being injured. This depends upon the processes employed iutho