ON FOOD. Book VII. 39(5 that where artificial feeding is re(|uiretl, the best method is to have feeding-houses con- structed, warm and airy, wifli dry Hoors covered with sand and gravel, and kept very clean ; food should be given in abundance, but of a natural and simple kind, made of grain, oatmeal, milk, boiled potatoes, bread, and sometimes mixed with a little dripping, not more than twice a day, so as to preserve perfect health. The counties of England most productive of poultry are, Norfolk, Surrey, Sussex, Herts, Devon, and Somerset. Spring is the best season for breeding chickens ; but the attempt to rear winter chickens in this climate seldom succeeds. The spring pullets properly fed are particularly fine. 2031. In the opinion of physicians, both ancient and modern, the flesh of the chicken, at three months old, is the most delicate and easy to digest of all other animal food; thence it is the best adapted for the stomach of invalids, or the constitutionally weak. Age makes a striking difference in the flesh of fowls ; after twelve months it becomes tougher and more insoluble ; the male, indeed, at that age is only fit for making soup, whilst the pullet is still excellent, although a more substantial viand than the chicken. Whilst young the cock and hen are equally delicate. The capon, when not made excessively fat, has been esteemed one of the greatest delicacies, preserving the flavour and deUcacy of the chicken with the juicy maturity of age. The mode of /tillim/, by drawing or stretching the neck, when unskilfully performed, it may be proper to mention, is productive of great and unnecessary suffering to the animal: sufficient force should be used to break the spinal cord, otherwise death does not ensue immediately. The common fowl belongs to the order Gallinm, or gallinaceous birds, which also compi'e- hends the turkey, pheasant, partridge, bustard, peacock, and quaU. Sect. III. GUINEA FOWL {Meleagris Numidia, Linn.). 2032. This bird is so named because first brought from Africa, where only it is wild in great abundance. In a state of nature these birds are gregarious, and are seen in flocks of two or three hundred : they delight in marshy places, but always perch at night upon high trees or in dry situations. They are about the size of the common hen, but stand higher on the legs. Though domesticated, they retain much of their wild nature, and are apt to wander. They lay very abundantly, and their eggs are excellent. They are not so white in the flesh as the common fowl, but more inclined to the colour of the pheasant; and, like it, the taste is savoury, and it is easy of digestion ; by many they are considered as a good substitute for the pheasant. They are excellent for the table, having somewhat of the game flavour, and they are in season when game is going out. Sect. IV. TURKEY (^Meleagris Gallipavo, Linn.) 2033. This excellent bird is a native of America only. It was introduced into Europe from Mexico, and imported into England from Spain about 1524, in the reign of Henry VIII., since which time they have been successfully bred here, but were so rare in France, that the first which was eaten in that kingdom appeared at the nuptial feast of Chai-les IX., in 1570. 2034. The wild turkey abounds at present in some parts of America, but has become more scarce since the country has been cleared of wood. In March they get so fat that they cannot fly more than three or four hundred yards, and are soon run down by a horse- man. In the unfrequented parts bordering on the Mississippi, they may be shot with a pistol. In this state they are black or a beautiful bronze and green ; but domestication produces considerable variety in their colour. The usual weight of the wild turkey is about thirty pounds : it frequents swamps, but repairs to the woods to roost, and feeds upon berries, acorns, and other wild fruit, as well as herbs. Their flesh is excellent. 2035. There are three varieties in this country; the black, the copper or speckled, and the white. The black is the nearest to the natural stock, and is larger and more hardy. These abound in Norfolk, and are esteemed superior to others ; they often weigh fifteen pounds, particularly when crossed by the large Virginian. It is said that their superiority is chiefly owing to the dryness of the soil in that district; they are brought up by every little farmer in the county, which furnishes the largest supply to the London market; but they do much mischief to the field crops, which prevents many farmers in other parts from keeping them. The white variety is rare here, though common in France. 2036. The flesh of the turkey is white, tender, delicate, nutritive, and restorative, of ex- cellent flavour, and more dense and substantial than that of the chicken. Age produces a similar effect as in the chicken : when old. it is good for little except stewing. The usual mode of killing this bird is tedious : it is bled to death by dividing the blood-