.029 WATER. Chap. I. M m of those substances which contaminate it; for it is to be remembered tliat water in itself is necessarily pure and incapable of change, and that when it is unfit for use the cause must be attributed to the presence of foreign matters; in other words, substances which do not belong to it. 2966. Before any thing can be determined on this subject, it is necessary that we should have a clear idea of the substances with which water is usually contaminated, and of the mode in which they exist in it. We have already explained, when treating of river water, the difference between materials being in mechanical suspension and dissolved in water. 2967. The bodies which are merely suspended in the water, and not dissolved, are earthy powders, as clay, lime, and a mixture of various mineral matters of all kinds, which have been washed down from higher grounds, and are completely mixed up in the water, giving it a turbid appearance. Parts of animal and vegetable bodies are likewise found in water in a state of mechanical suspension, as portions of insects, of fish, dead leaves, fragments of wood and branches, grass, and every part of the animal and vegetable kingdoms. We may have a good idea of what may thus be contained in water, by observing what is brought by rivers in freshes, when the water, is quite muddy. Extremely fine sand may be in this list of substances ; but when the particles are large they subside immediately, and cannot be said to make water turbid. All the particles that are specifically heavier than water will subside to the bottom; but if any substances should happen to be of the same specific gravity as water, they will not subside, but will remain suspended anywhere in it; and those particles which are only a very little heavier than water will not fall down until after a considerable time. Every thing, in short, may be suspended in water that is light enough not to sink to the bottom immediately, and which cannot overcome the agitation of the fluid. But in general all such matters do subside after the water has stood a sufficient time. It is very remarkable, and a proof how beautiful is the economy of nature, that there are very few substances in the world that are exactly of the same specific gravity as water : were there many such matters this fluid would scarcely ever be clear. 2968. Purifying icater by subsidence is performed by collecting it into a reservoir, and sufi^ering it to remain perfectly at rest; when, in the course of time, those substances which are only mechanically suspended will sink to the bottom. But this method alone is very imperfect, and can never effect the complete purification of water, since, as we have stated, there are a number of extremely minute particles so nearly of the same specific gravity with water, that they are not able to overcome the tenacity of the fluid, and therefore remain in a state of suspension and cause a cloudy appearance. These may be separated by filtration, which we shall next describe. Water may also contain salts of various kinds, which cannot be separated either by subsidence or filtration ; for these distillation is necessary, by which the pure water rises in the form of steam, and is condensed again, the salts remaining in the still. The filtration of water being an im- portant subject, we must treat of it at some length. 2969. Filtration is the most general method of purifying water for domestic economy. This consists in allowing the water to percolate through a porous material, the pores of which are too minute to allow of the passage of any substance mixed in the water. Strain- ing liquids through a sieve, cloth, or sponge, is a coarse kind of filtering; and a great variety of materials are employed to perform this operation, suited to the nature of the liquids and other circumstances. The chemist employs unsized or bibulous paper for his delicate processes, and porous stones have been employed for filtering water for ordinary purposes. Flannel and cloth of various kinds are also used. 2970. Sponge may be employed for filtering by compressing it into the neck of some vessel made to hold the water ; this substance is very convenient, as it may be easily taken out, cleaned, and replaced. 2971. But the best material for filtering water is charcoal. This substance not only acts mechanically by its porosity as a strainer, but it has the valuable and peculiar quality of preventing putrefaction by absorbing at once the gaseous matter that is generated, and thus impeding decomposition. Sailors have long been acquainted with this property of charcoal, and they have found it to be an excellent practice to char the inside of the casks in which they take water to sea in long voyages. It was once supposed that the chief use of this was to prevent the water from contracting a disagreeable taste from the wood ; but it is now known that it not only effects this, but that it acts much more power- fully by absorbing all putrid matter and offensive odour, and thus rendering, in a con- siderable degree, even foul and unwholesome water salubrious and transparent. The best cluircoal for this purpose is that produced by burning animal substances, called animal charcoal, which is more effective than vegetable charcoal. Charcoal has likewise the property of absorbing colouring matter ; brandy may be rendered white by being passed through it, and port wine has been rendered pale : it is also used for whiten- ing the syrup of sugar. 2972. Nature effects filtration by means of beds of sand. Water that has percolated