ON VENTILATION. lie Book III. as It IS applicable in many other situations as well as manufactories, we shall quote the description of it as we find it in Dr. Ures's " Philosophy of Manufactures." 519. Fig. 83. represents a side and front view of the simple and economical fan, which has been of late years employed for ventilating factories, by drawing the air out of every apartment; for removing through tunnels the dust disengaged in cleaning their fibrous materials ; for blowing the air into their extensive ranges of forge fires, and many other similar purposes. It consists of two cast-iron end plates A, A, having a central circular opening, c, c, c, from the circumference of which the outline of each plate enlarges spirally, the point nearest the centre being near d, and that fur- ther off being under E. This pair of parallel plates is connected by bolts, a, a, a, a mantle of sheet iron being previously inserted into grooves cast in the edges of the end plates, so as to enclose a cavity with an elongated outlet at B, to which a pipe is at- tached for carrying off the wafted air in any direction. With- in this cavity, a shaft, C, revolves in bearing, b, b, placed centrally in the frame plates. A, A, and cast in the same piece. On this shaft a boss is wedged fast, bearing five flat arms, c, c, c, to which are riveted five plates or wings of the shape shown between a and a, in fig. 83, having a semicircular piece cut out of them on each side, about the size of the end opening. On one end of the shaft, C, beyond the box bearing, the loose and fast pulleys, D, are fitted for receiving the driving band, and for turning the wings in the direction shown by the arrow. Thus the air is driven before them out of the end orifice B, while it enters by the side openings at c, c, c. By the centrifugal force of the revolving wings, the air is conducted towards their extremities, and makes its escape from the pressure through the orifice B, while it is continually drawn in at the sides by its tendency to restore the equilibrium. The fans constructed by some engineers have their mantles made concentric with their central shafts, and though they do good work when turned with stifficient rapidity, they are not adapted to produce pressure by condensation, as the wind issuing from the outlet, B, consists partly of the air compressed by the extremities of the wings, and of the air rarefied on its entrance near their roots. In the fan here represented, called the excentrie, the au' which escapes through the outlet, B, has undergone compression during its whole progress through the spiral space with the revolving wings, and is equal in density to that compressed at their extremities by the centrifugal force. This fan discharges therefore considerably more air than that with a chamber concentric with its wings, because each wing, in passing the point d, acts as a valve to cut off the entrance of the uncondensed air, which would cause an eddy, and retard the proper current by the inertia of its particles. The fan produces its greatest effect when the extreme points of its wings percur in revolv- ing about eighty feet per second. When the fan is employed to draw air out of a series of independent chambers, it has its circular side openings, c, c, c, enclosed within cases, which are connected with pipes communicating with these chambers. Slide or throstle valves may be placed in the exhausting, as well as in the condensing pipes, for regulating the distribution of the rarefying or blowing power. By this machine it appears that a renewal of the air is always insured, which can seldom be the case, except some such mechanical method be employed. 520. Dr. Ure mentions another instance of successful ventilation, emploj-ed in a range of dwelling rooms for the people employed in a cotton factory. A large iron pipe is led along the ceiling of an external corridor, shut at one end, but connected at the other with the great chimney of the mill. From the side of this horizontal pipe, opposite to each apart- ment, a tin tube, 1^ inch in diameter, branches off at a right angle, and enters through the wall, so as to present its open end immediately over the bedstead of the apartment. Whenever the steam engine is stopped, either at meal hours or at night, the mechanism which shuts the fire damper is so constructed as to open at the same instant the valve at the inner end of the corridor pipe : whereupon a brisk current is established in each tin tube, and a stream of air rushes into from every apartment, thus forcibly abstracting the air of the room, which of course will be immediately supplied by fresh air from without by means of the door and the various crevices. Since this plan has been adopted, the health of the inhabitants has been materially benefited. 521. One of the advintagcs of ventilalion by ineans of machincn/, is the certainly that a chanqc of the\iir is effected: whereas, in many of the other modes, as air is an invisible fluid", it is not always easy to ascertain whether a current of foul air is going out, while another of fresh air is setting in. But however easy these modes of forced ventilation may be in manufactories, where power is at hand to work machines, and skilful people to direct them,, they would obviously be too inconvenient to be applied generally in domestic economy, where the simplest means only can be expected to be generally resorted to.