RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 904 Book XIIL the time when they are in the highest perfection. Having cleaned them well by sepa- rating tile leaves from the stalks, and having separated the dirt by rubbing them with the Iiands over a hair sieve, which will suifer the dust to go through by shaking, they are to be put into a common oven or a Dutch oven before the fire and dried quickly, but not so as to burn. This method is preferable to drying them more slowly by the heat of the sun. When quite dried they are pounded in a mortar, passed through a sieve, and the powder put into bottles well stopped ; in this way, parsley, winter savoury, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, sweet basil, bay leaves, celery seed, lemon-peel, horse-radish, mint, sage, tarragon, burnet, mushrooms, and others of this class will' retain their fragrance and flavour for several months. 5183. Scitsons for drying sweet herbs.—Basil is in the best state for drying from the middle of August and three weeks after. Knotted marjoram, from the beginning of July and during the same. Winter savoury, the latter end of July and throughout August. Summer savoury, at the same time. Thyme, lemon thyme, oramje thyme, during June and July. il/Zwi, latter end of June. Sajre, August and September. TWrrat/on, June, July, and August. Burnet, June, July, and August. Parsley, May, June, and July. Chervel, the same. Fennel, the same. Elder flowers, the same. Orange flowers. May, June, and July. 5184. It is found convenient to keep ready prepared mixtures of these powders, for fla- vouring certain soups and ragout, of which the following may serve as a specimen : — dried parsley, winter savoury, sweet marjoram, lemon thyme, of each two ounces ; lemon-peel cut very thin and dried, one ounce ; sweet basil, one ounce; celery seed and bay leaves, of each one drachm ; or part only of these may be employed according to taste. Another mixture, recommended for pea-soup, consists of dried mint and sage, celery seed, and pepper. 5185. The following are kept ready prepared in the London shops ; — Dried mushrooms ; dried truffles and morels ; artichoke bottoms ; bottled and green truffles. Infusions of these may likewise be made in vinegar or white wine, which may be employed in relishing sauces, although these are inferior to the fresh gathered herbs. 5186. Curry powder is much used for flavouring and increasing the relish of such dishes as chicken, rabbits, veal, sweetbreads, lobster, turbot, soles, oysters, &c. U made after the following receipt, it will be found scarcely to diflPer from what is brought from the East: — 2 oz. of coriander seed j I oz. of cummin seed ; i oz. of carraway seed ; i oz. of ginger {in powder); 2 oz. of turmeric ; i oz. of black pepper (pounded); a oz. of cayenne (of the very best quality, or more will be necessary). These ingredients are to be dried in an oven, pounded and sifted separately, thenmbced together in a mortar, and put into a dry "bottle and corked. — N.B. A table-spoonful will be sufficient for a large dish of curry. 5187. A ragout powder : — loz.ofsait; | oz. of mustard ; ^ oz. of allspice ; ^ oz. of black pepper (ground) j J oz. of grated lemon-peel; J oz. of ginger; i oz. of nutmeg ; 2 drachms of cayenne. Dry these ingredients in an oven, pound, sift, mingle them well together, and bottfe them. 5188. Mushroom powder Wash half a peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh, and free them from grit and dirt with flannel; scrape out the black p.art, and do not use any that are worm-eaten ; put them into a large stew-pan over tlie fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder ; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven, till they are dry enough to beat to powder; when powdered, put it into small bottles, which must be closely corked, and kept in a dry place. .■iisg. Anchovy powder. — Pound the fish and rub them through a sieve, make tliem into a paste with dried flour, and roll it into thin cakes and dry them before a slow fire (or oven). Pound them very fine, and put them into bottles. Cork them well, and the powder will keep good for many years—N.B. This sprinkled on bread and butler is an agreeable relish. 5190. Oyster powder Open the oysters carefully, so as not to cut them except in dividing the gristle which attaches the shells. Put them nito a mortar, and when you have got as many as you can conveuientljr pound at once, add about two drachms of salt to about a dozen oysters; pound them and rub them tlirough the back of a hair sieve, and put them into a mortar again, with as much flour (but previously thoroughly dried) as will roll them into a p.iste ; roll this paste out several times, and lastly flour it, and roll it out the thickness of a half-crown, and cut it into pieces about an inch square ; l,ay them in a Dutch oven, where they will dry so gently as not to get burned ; turn them every half hour, anil when they begin to dry crumble them. They will take about four hours to dry. Pound them, sill them, and put them into dry bottles ; cork and seal them over. — N. 11. Three dozen of natives required 7J ounces of flour to make them into a paste, which then weighed II ounces, when dried Gj ounces. To m.ike h.alf a i>int of sauce, nut one ounce of butter into a stew- pan with three drachms of oyster powder and six table.spoonfuls of milk; set it on a slow fire, stir it till it boils, and season it with salt. This extract is valuable In inland countries, and equally good when made into sauce, with fish, fou ls, or rum]) steak ; sprinkled on bread .ind butter it makes a good sandwich. It is an ex- cellent store sauce for the army and navy. SuBSECT. 3. — Store Sauces, Essences, Vinegars, and Catsups. 5191. Under this head is an almost endless variety of flavouring ingredients, many of which, in the present state of English cookery, are almost indispensable.