ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES, Book II. 100 bituminous, otherwise they cake so fast as to require frequent stirring and breaking. Bad coals leave too much ashes, and are not inflammable enough : also, though cheap, these are far from being.economical : and we may here repeat the advantage of having the fire burn against brick, instead of iron. In short, to arrange a fire well requires some judgment; and is interesting to those who can perceive it as a constant exemplification of the chemical laws of nature. 436. Coals are at present sold hy weight: and by a late act of parliament, under a penalty of 10?. to the carman, and 20/. to the vender, a perfect machine must be carried for weighing coals. The correctness of any machine may be easily tried by putting a 56/6. weight into each scale, and seeing if it fairly balances. By the same act it is ordered, that machines and weights should be kept at the different watchhouses and police stations, for weighing any coals about which there may be any dispute, and power is extended to any two justices of peace to appoint other places for the same purpose. When the coals are shot down into the coal cellar through the circular aperture, they form a conical heap under it; and, as is always the case with loose materials, the largest pieces roll farthest down on the outside of the heap, the smallest occupying the top. Were the coals to be used from this heap as it is formed, the result would be, that all the large pieces of coal would be used first, and towards the last there would be only small coals. To prevent this inconvenience, a person, called a triminer, is sent by the coal mer- chant, whose business it is to mix the small and large together properly by throwing the whole into the end of the vault; but, unless the trimmer be looked after, he is very apt to neglect doing this properly, his only object too often being to keep them within the door of the coal cellar, without caring whether they .are mixed or not, although this is of much consequence to their burning well. This man is paid 3d. per ton by the coal mer- chant ; and it is proper for some one to see that he does his duty. 437. The complete decomposition of coal is explained in Chap. II. Book II., when treating on " Combustion ;" and in Chap. V. Book IV., " Gaslight." Sect. IY. COKE. 438. Coke is prepared from coal hy depriving it of its hydrogen ; consequently coke can give neither flame nor smoke. It is, in fact, to coal, what charcoal is compared to wood, and is prepai'ed by a similar process. When made on the great scale, for smelting iron, the coal is laid in heaps, covered over with earth and clay, and set fire to: a smothering combustion, having very little access of air, causes the hydrogen to separate from the coal, without the carbonaceous part being consumed, as in the making of charcoal; and, when this is efi'ected, the fire is put out, and what remains is coke. A great quantity of this combustible, and particularly that which is chiefly employed for domestic purposes in London, is what remains in the iron retorts after the gas has been extracted from the coal for illumination: and this is superior for domestic use to that made in the large way for smelting. 439. Coke has the advantage of giving out an intense radiant heat, without any smoke, and is therefore particularly convenient for many purposes. It is, in fact, a mineral charcoal, being the carbonaceous part of the vegetable substance from which the coal was formed ; but the woody structure is no longer visible, as in charcoal. It is likewise more dense than charcoal, containing more carbon in the same compass, and therefore capable of affording a longer continued heat. From the clearness with which it burns, and the intensity of its radiant.heat, it is excellent for certain operations of the cook, where a bright clear fire is wanted, as broiling, roasting, &c.; but it is difficult to kindle, and does not answer well in a grate without an admixture of coal; but these two together make the strongest fire. Coke, however, leaves a great deal of ashes. It is also convenient to mix with coals that are very bituminous, to prevent their caking together too much. Some attention is required in trying any particular kind of fuel, as each demands a peculiar management. Coke, when used in an open fire, should be broken of the size of a goose-egg, and laid on the top of the fire, when it has burned well up; the pieces will collect the radiant heat that would have escaped up the chimney, and soon themselves become red hot, in which state alone they are effective. Care should be taken that they do not get in front of the fire before they are red hot, as they will only obstruct the rays of heat. 440. There is some difference in the density, and consequently in the strength of the coke, according to the kind of coal from which it is produced, or the mode of preparing it. The heaviest gives the most heat, and will last longest; but that which is shiuing and light will burn most readily. 441. It is a notion with some, thai coke is more sulphurous tJian coal; but this is iinpos- Bible ; since the very object of coking coal for smelting iron is to deprive it of its sulphur, which is dissipated in the coking: and the same effect takes place when it is left after the coal gas has been taken from the coal. Coke burned by itself has, however, all the