PREFACE. ;Much has been written on various subjects connected with Domestic ; Economy ; and it was the wish of the late Mr. Longman many years ago to : see collated into one large volume, for the convenience of reference, inform- ; ation useful to persons who have to superintend domestic establishments, 1 but which was then scattered in fragments through thousands of pages. ' The difficulties attending such a compilation had long prevented its execu- ition, since it was found upon trial, tliat little had been published suited to I the advancing state of science. To conduct such a work became at length the occupation of the present Editor, whose task has been to select and arrange the subjects, and to treat I them as he best could, consistently with his own views and the limits of the [publication. To tliis labour he has devoted what time he could spare from liis [professional pm'suits during the last ten years, and the work being now com- ipleted it may be proper to inform those to whom he is best known as a 1 Geologist, what circumstances led the publishers to request him to undertake ;such a task. He had been educated as an architect, and forty years ago Ihe had been intimately acquainted with Count Rumford, who put him in 1 possession of the principles relating to Domestic Economy, for which he was ■so deservedly celebrated. He had also been the first officer, in point of ttime, that was appointed in the "Royal Institution of Great Britain, for t the Application of Science to the Common Purposes of Life," to the founding ' of which Count Rumford had so materially contributed. While in that Li- sstitutiori, the Editor had designed and superintended the building of the Theatre for Lectures and the Chemical Laboratory; and it was his province, during the first years of that establishment, to occupy himself with the -subject of warming buildings by the best construction of chimney fire- I places, stoves, and other methods, as well as with ventilation, lighting, and 'the application of the principles of Count Rumford to the improvement of warious useful kinds of apparatus. It was conceived that some of the expe- i-ricnce thus acquired might be available in such a woi'k as the present; and 'that, by incorporating the principal modern improvements in Domestic Eco- nomy, the object might, in some degree, be attained. It may be proper to state the views which have guided the Editor througli- out the work, "Without going into the subject of education, the present state of society, the use and abuse of time, it cannot but be admitted that it is extremely desirable, on many accounts, that tliose who occupy elevated positions in the social scale sliould possess that species of information, which would assist them in fulfilling their domestic duties. This kind of information, however, is not easily acquired in a desultory inunner, parti-