778 ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. salt is generally a little deliquescent, that is, attracts water and becomes damp, -which is owing to its not being entirely freed from the muriates of lime and magnesia. Salt should be preserved for immediate use in a salt-box -with a close lid, and be kept in a warm dry place. 4444. Common salt, when perfectly pure, was formerly said to consist of muriatic acid and soda, consequently to be muriate of soda: at present, chemists consider it as formed of chlorine and sodium, consequently it is chloride of sodium; but it frequently retains its former name. It is white, transparent, without smell, with a taste strictly saline, and free from bitterness. When thrown upon a heated metallic plate, or on the fire, it de- crepitates ; in a greater heat, or red heat, it melts; and in a white heat it is volatilised in white vapour, but is not altered. Water can only dissolve a certain quantity; when it cannot take up any more, the solution is said to be saturated; and this is the strongest brine that can be made. Boiling water dissolves more salt than cold ; but when the hot solution is suffered to cool, all the salt falls down in a solid state above what the cold water can hold in solution. Hot brine, therefore, can be made stronger than cold, but will remain so only as long as it is in the hot state. To make brine completely saturated, it is best to boil it, and when the solution is cold, it is certain to be as strong as possible. 444.'). Culinary salt may he divided into two kinds: 1. Bay salt and Fishery salt; 2. White or fine-grained salt. 4446. Bai) salt is obtained from the se.a water by evaporating it in large shallow reservoirs by the heat or tlio sun only. None is made strictly by tliis metliod in Britain, the climate being scarcely warm enough ; but large quantities are manufactured on the southern coasts of IJurope, as France, Spain, and Portugal, and from thence it is imported into this country. It is very large or coarse-grained, in consequence of the slow- ness of the evaporation, and more or less impure, bein^ brownish, grey, or reddish, according to the colour of the cl.iy which formed the bottom of the pans in which it was made. The bay salt of different coimtries differs considerably in purity and colour, according to the mode in which it has been manufactured. The more slowly the water has been evaporated, the larger are the crystals of salt, and the more perfect and pure they are. Bay salt is generally considered to be stronger than white salt; but this opinion is erroneous; its superior operation is rather by dissolving slower on account of the large size of its crystals; and hence it is more useful in salting sea stores. It is cheaper than white salt; and although fitter for the same purposes in curing fish and meat, is much less fit for ordinary purposes from its containing much impurity. Little actual bay salt is now imported, as a coarse salt equally useful is manufactured in this country. 44-17. Cheshire fishery salt is the coarsest grained of all, and is made by evaporating the brine from dis. solving rocli salt, or natural brine from the springs, by a temperature of 100" to 110°, by which slow evapora- tion the crystals become large, and better adapted to the use of the fisheries. It is sometimes called British bay salt. 4448. White salt is made either by boiling sea water in places where fuel is cheap, as at Newcastle; or by partly evaporating sea water by the heat of the sun, and thus reducing it to a briue, which is afterwards boiled to salt, as at Lymington in Hampshire; or by boiling the brine of salt springs, as in Worcestershire and Cheshire ; or, lastly, by dissolving and boiling rock salt, as in Cheshire. The different states in which salt is prepared for sale have given it various appellations, as stored or lump salt, common salt, basliet salt, and Sunday salt. In making the stored salt, the brine, whether from the natural brine springs, or from the rock salt, is evaporated in wrought iron pans by a heat of 226°, or 14° above the boiling point, a temperature which brine can sustain, although fresh water cannot; as the liquid boils, a scum is taken off consisting of carbonate of lime with which the salt was mixed in the earth ; when the brine is sufBciently concentrated, the salt crystallises, while the other salts, the Epsom salt, .ind the Glauber's salt do not crystallise so soon, and are poured off in the liquid state; these are called the bittern, which are crystallised afterwards. The salt now purified is put in baskets and drained, and afterwards dried upon a stove; this is often called basket salt ■ it is very fine grained, in consequence of the great heat, and is the best salt used for the table. 4449. Tlie common salt is made by the same ]>rncess, but the evaporation is slower, the temperature being only 160° to 170° ; and it is not stoved after draining. . , „ Lyminaton common salt is made by evaporating salt water by means of the sun and air m shallow ponds, till five parts out of six have disappeared, and quick boiling the remainder to dryness. In Scotch common salt, the sea water is boiled very quick, and the crystals or grains are small, approachmg stoved salt. , ,. , j . ■ . j ^ „■ ^ Salt upon salt is made from bay salt dissolved m brme and recrystallised. _ _ The following table, by Dr. Henry, gives the components in 1000 parts of foreign and British varieties of salt. Kind of Salt. Inso- luble Mat- ter. Muri- ate of Lime. Muriate of M.TR- nesia. Total Earthy Muriates. Sulphate of Lime. Sulnbate of Mag- nesia. Total Sul- phates. Total Impuri- ties. Pure Mu- riate of Soda. r St. Ube's contain of Bay salt J St. Martin's . tOleron . „ , C Scotch common . British Vijo. Sunday . . salt fom-t j -tQ„g(,^n,on (Do.cut . . . (-Crushed rock salt. , , 1 Fishery . Cheshire j common . • ( Stoved . 9 12 10 4 1 2 1 10 I 1 1 atracc 0^8 3 3i 2 28 or + 111 11 or + 6 SI 3 3i 2 28 or + Hi 11 or + S 1 1 23J 19 19J 1,'i 12 15 1 i4 4i 17* 41 3.') 5 28 25 23f 32| 50 6 Gi lU 14} 15| 40 405 352 G4i 29 63 12 13! ig| I7| 960 9S9i 964i 9;i.'ii 971 937 988 98.3J 9S« 983} 982J 44.50 Common or culinary salt is not only important as a preserver, but as a seasoner of food No other condiment is in equal request; and it is considered by medical men to be not only a useful but a necessary stimulant, and that its valuable properties contribute much to health, when used in moderation. Mankind in all ages appear to have had a relish for salt - " Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an ogg?" Jol>,v\. G. In countries where salt is scarce it fetches a great price; and long journOys across deserts arc undertaken to procure it. Although