Book VII I. 624 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. of grapes sold is recorded, as also the value of the wine ; and an unfavourable year is mentioned, in which no wine was made, but only verjuice. Bede describes the domain of Thorney in the Isle of Ely to be an earthly paradise, and observes that " it is so fully cultivated, that no portion of the soil is left unoccupied On the one hand, it may be seen thickly studded with apple trees ; on the other, covered with vines, which either trail along the ground, or are trained on high, and supported on poles." 3511. The essays of Mr. Pegge in the Archaiologia, with the subsequent controversies ■which originated in the opposition of Mr. Daines Barrington, have established beyond doubt the fact that vineyards were attached to the more considerable monasteries of Britain, at least in the southern parts of the kingdom, for the purpose of making wine. These establishments were generally placed in fertile and well-sheltered valleygj ifjJ^iWthe choicest exposures of the vine might be found ; and the monks possessing 'va^pM the learning and knowledge of these times, they were no doubt familiar with the best modes of culture of this favourite plant, as we find they were of other vegetable productions, many of them being foreigners from Italy and France. Numerous examples are upon record of the vineyards attached to the abbeys about this period ; according to Somner, Canterbury church and St. Augustine's abbey were possessed of numerous vineyards ; and the Bishop of Rochester made wine, a present of which he sent to Edward II. The rolls of the Exchequer contain an account of certain expenses incurred for the roj'al vineyard at Rockingham : and if we credit William of Malmsbury, large tracts of country in various parts of England produced excellent wine in the twelfth century, particularly the vale of Gloucester, where a sweet palatable wine, little inferior to that of France, was made in abundance. Indeed in this place grapes grow with great luxuriance in the present day, and without doubt could be raised in great plenty by proper care. We are told by Stowe of the yearly account of the wine produced from grapes grown in the little park at Windsor in the time of Richard II., part of which was used in the king's house, and the rest sold. 3512. It is possible that some of these vineyards belonging to wealthy indi%'iduals might be kept as much for amusement as profit: but still we have abundance of proof that wine was formerly made in England in considerable quantity. Foreign wine was, however, imported into the country at an early period ; and as it could be had of much better quality from abroad, and perhaps often at less expense, than when produced in the island, it is not likely that the supply of the latter was ever sufficient for the con- sumption of the country : and it is probable that the uncertainty of the climate formed a considerable impediment to the culture of the vine, which limited the use of this beverage to the wealthier classes. But notwithstanding this, enough was raised to render the cul- tivation of the wine an object of study, until the acquisition of French provinces, under Henry III. and Edward III., gave a taste for the wines of that country, and rendered them so cheap as to occasion a neglect of our native wines, which were analogous to those of the Rhine. 3513. In the year 1273, 8846 tuns of foreign wine was brought to England, paying one penny per tun duty ; of which London imported 3799 tuns ; Southampton! and Ports- mouth 3147 ; and Sandwich, then a great sea-port, 1900. At that period wine was very plentiful in the houses of the nobility and gentry ; and so cheap were French wines that in the reign of Henry VIIL they were sold at eightpence a gallon. 3514. The chroniclers of the time complain that this abundance of foreign wines caused the first neglect of the English vineyards, which was completed by the dissolution of the monas- teries. It was not only in England, but in other countries, as in France, that the cultiva- tion of the vine was more attended to by the clergy, who were at one time almost the sole depositaries of learning, and had much leisure and opportunity for obser\^ation and study. On the lands of the rich monasteries were to be found the choicest growths of the vine, tlie quality rather than the quantity of the vintage being the object in request. No pains was spared in the improvement of the soil, and in the dressing and management of the vine, and the fermentation of the juice. When ecclesiastical domains in France passed into the hands of laymen, the same assiduity and skill were not shown in the cultivation of the vine, and in the hands of wine-manufacturers quantity was preferred to the quality of the produce. It is a fact that at this day many of the best vineyards in France are on the sites of lands that once belonged to the monasteries. - , • But in order to cover the harshness which belonged to the greater part of the wmes of that period, it was usual to mix with them various sweets and spices, and a sort of liquid called pimcnts were compounded, not very imliUe some of the liqueurs of the prosi^nt day, served at feasts and entertainments, as exquisite luxuries. Of this kind was the Ypocrase, prepared, when " for lords, with wine, gynger, synamon, graynes, sugour, and turcsoll j and when for comyn pepull, of wine, gyngor, canoll, longe pepper, and clarified honey. C/orn/was a similar mixture of wine, honey, and some spices; and the Bishop ot our days, made of wine, oranges and sugar, is probably a remnant of these micicnt beverages.