ON FOOD, Book VII. 454 chemistry which should contain an account of every known substance. The following are the principal vegetable acids, — acetic acid, malic acid, citric acid, tartaric acid, oxalic acid, and gallic acid. 2384. Acetic acid exists ready formed in the juices of many plants, either in a separate or free state, or combined with lime or potash, forming salts. It is an abundant product of the acetous fermentation, and it is also formed by the destructive distillation of vege- tables, as in the case of wood vinegar. Common vinegar is an impure acetic acid; but this being an article of great importance, it will be treated of at large in another part of this work. See Chap. VI. Book VII. 2385. Malic acid.—This acid derives its name from the apple, in which it abounds, particularly before they are ripe : it is likewise found in many other fruits, together with other vegetable acids, and is almost the only one in the sei-vice tree (Sorbus aucuparia'), from which it is sometimes called the sorbic acid. When pure, it is exceedingly sour. 2386. Citric acid.—This acid exists naturally in many acidulous fruits, but in the greatest quantity in the juice of the lime and lemon, from which it is now obtained pure in a crystallised state. The crystals are transparent; if kept dry, they may be preserved for any length of time, and are sometimes employed as a substitute for lemon juice. 2387. Tartaric acid.—This exists in several acidulous fruits, particularly the grape and the tamarind, but always combined with lime or potash ; and these combinations are neutral salts, called tartrates of lime or of potash. The juice of the gi'ape is remarkable for containing abundance of the bitartrate of potash ; and during the process of making wine this salt is deposited in tlie form of a hard crust, and particularly on the sides and bottom of the wooden casks in which the wine is kept to depurate. This substance is called tartar, and, being impure, and coloured by the wine, it is dissolved and purified ; it is then white, and becomes the acidulous substance called cream of tartar of the shops. From this the pure tartaric acid is prepared by separating the potash from it by a chemical process. When the tartar of the wine casks is burned to ashes, the tartaric acid is driven off, and the potash remains, which was fonnerly known under the name of salt of tartar. 2388. Oxalic acid.—This acid, so violent a poison in its pure state, abounds in wood sorrel (Oxalis acetosella); but it is there combined with a small quantity of potash ; and in that case it is not poisonous. When this salt, the oxalate of potash, has been prepared from sorrel, it is sometimes soM, under the improper term of salt of lemons, for taking out iron moulds and ink spots, for which purpose it answers equally well. The resemblance of oxalic acid to Epsom salts has occasioned many fatal mistakes. In cases of poisoning by this substance, the best antidote is chalk or whiting mixed with water, which is preferable to emetics, or potash, soda, or magnesia, which have been also employed. Oxalic acid is easily distinguished by its strongly acid taste (and it may be tasted without danger), whereas Epsom salts have a bitter saline taste. 2389. Gallic acid.—This acid is found in the bai-k of many trees, and in gaU nuts, but always associated with tannin, or tannic acid, already described. It has but a very weakly acid taste, and is astringent and bitter. It is particularly remarkable for striking a deep bluish black with iron, and from this property it forms the basis of writing ink. 2390. Prussic acid.—This, in modern chemistry, is called the hydrocyanic acid; but it is still popularly known by its former name, which was derived from its being a constituent of the pigment Prussian blue. It is one of the most virulent poisons known, a drop or two laid on the tongue being sufficient to occasion death: but, like most poisons, when employed in very minute quantities it is a useful medicine. It is introduced here only to correct a general opinion respecting it, which now proves to be erroneous, in conse- quence of the recent discoveries in vegetable chemistry. Although prussic acid is procured by the distillation of the leaves and kernels of the Primus Lauro-cerasus, or cherry laurel, peach, and bitter almond, it does not exist, as has been supposed, readj' formed in these vegetables. They only contain the ultimate components called amygdalin and emulsin, from which Prussic acid is formed by their mutual action and that of water during the process of distillation. By this process, a poisonous essential oil, called by chemists hydruretofbenzxieli, is likewise formed from the same ultimate components; and it is to this essential oil, and not to the Prussic acid, that the odour of the peach blossom is owmg. Prussic acid, therefore, being merely the product of a process, cannot be considered as one of the proximate principles of vegetables. See farther in the description of the " Cherry" and " Peach," Chap. IX. Book VII. The composition of hydrocyanic acid is very different from acids in general; instead of oxygen, hydrogen is its acidifying principle : it is composed of hydrogen and a gaseous body called cyanogen, the latter consisting of nitrogen and oxygen.