HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. 326 every day acknowledged that one of the main anxieties of housekeeping is the apprehension of tlie dishonesty of those who are under our roof and receiving bread from our hands; it is this Insecuritywhich often destroys repose, and undermines a generous and confiding temper. Were tlie depredations of a aescri|ition to be easily detected, the annoyance wouid be of less moment; but they are usually so systematically small as to defy the strictest scrutiny to discover, and yet so uniformly carried on as to be in the end inciilcuiably great. 14.'jO. Of titcac practices, that of connivance the servants of the tradespeople employed by a family is one necessary to be known, as the remedy is evident, provided tlie practice l)c confined to the servants, and not to the tradesmen themselves. It is that of entering into the books more goods and articles of food than are brought into the house, the amount of which is divided between tlie cooks and the agents employed by tiie tradespeople to convey their commodities from their shops to their customers. So prevalent has thfs malpractice been as to give origin to slang epithets ; for instance, the loaves added to the amount of those actually taken into a house are called dead men's tnavcs. H.'jI. It must, however, be remembered, that if the payment of the baker's bill be not settled between these dishonest parties, they can derive no advantage from the fraud, and will therefore have uo inducement to practise it, unless the baker himself also connives. 1452. Against cooks, charges have been often substantiated of other w.iys of disposing of the provisions of families which they serve. It is indisputable th.it a traHic is carried on by many cooks with their own needy connexions ; and Irora the discoveries which have been frequently made has arisen the rule of exclusion from every house, of the friends and relatives of servants in tlie metropolisan indispensable restriction, unless the friends are almost as well known to the family as the servants themselves. In all great towns petty depredators have so many means of evading discovery, as to render them the more dangerous. 1453. Injmying bills, dishonest servants find another means of emolumentto themselves at their employers' cost; and in which the tradespeople certainly do connive, probably for the object of keeping in favour with those, who, if so disposed, might injure them with their customers. It is no uncommon practice for a cook, on entering a new service, to make terms for herself witli the tradespeople of the familj', and if they prove un- bendingly honest, she has no resource but to decry their goods, and thus lessening their estimation with their customers, induce them to deal elsewhere, and perhaps with'persons of her own stamp. One of her claims is to the odd pence and halfpence of each small bill, and to the discount upon large accounts. Christmas-boies are, also, generally demanded by servants from tradespeople. All these sources of secret gain must, it is api)arent, spring primarily from the principals of families, and not from the tradespeople who, in affixing a price to their commodities, must take into account all these drawbacks upon them, or their business could not prosper. These facts do not rest on doubtful authority, but are indisputable, and illustrate the importance and economy of the habit of each principal settling his own bills, and allowing his domestics to have as little concern with his tradespeople as possible. 1454. T/ie honour which servants pretend to preserve amongst themselves, and which prevents them from exposing the frauds and misconduct going on amongst them, is only anotlier name for deception and dis- honesty. An honest-minded servant ought to distinguish between the pettiness of tattling and the duty he owes to his employer and himself; and it should always be impressed on his mind, that, to see dishonest prac- tices and not to disclose them to the injured party, is to participate in them. He becomes an accompUce, if lie knows of frauds and is silent. Sect. IV. HOUSEHOLD REGUI-ATIONS. 1455. In the following details will be found the regulations now generally, though variously, modified, by which the treatment of domestic servants is governed. SuBSECT. 1.—Food of Domestic Servants. 1456. The food of domestic servants is uniformly at the cost of the principals of families, though, in different spheres and houses, there are different modes of settling this part of domestic management. 1457. One, and the most general plan, is to have meals prepared for the household distinct from those of the family, at stated and early hours, and consisting chiefly of plain substantial fare, with specific allowances of beer and ale. 1458. In this country, but only in families of the first rank and greatest aiHuence, there are two distinct tables allowed In the establishment: one in the steward's room, for the chief members of the establishment ; the other in the servants' hall for the rest of the domestics. 1459. The steward's table has been of late years less frequent than formerly in the houses of the great. During the long war of the last century, provisions became so immoderately high, and every luxury so heavily taxed, as to induce in most houses where large establishments were indispensable, gre.at retrenchment in whatever way it could be elTected; and the first steps taken liy many of the gentrj- was the abolition of tli« steward's tiible, only one general table in the servants' hall being thenceforward allpwed to the establish- ment. , , , ^ , 1460. Where the steward's table is yet extant in the houses of the nobility, the house-keeper and house- steward preside at it, and none of the domestics but lady's maids, valets, butlers, and head gardeners, are admitted to it. . v ■ . f u- i. 14GI. In the housekeeper's room, the same party take their breakfast, tea, and supper, at the last of which the head nurse has a place, when she can leave the nursery without neglecting her ch.-irges. I4G2. The meals in the servants' hall are usually announced to the members of the establishment by the ringing of a great bell. It is rung at 8 o'clock in the morning for breakfast, at h,ilf past 12 or 1 o'clock for dinner .and at 8 again for supper. In large establishments, where many are to be served, an hour s time is allowed for dinner. In establishments of smaller number, half an hour is allowed for dinner, and half an hour also for tea and supper. . „ r _ . 146.3 Breakfast and supper for men servants consist generally of bread .ind cheese, occasionally ol me,-»t, together with a pint of beer to each. Generally speaking, meal is allow ed to establishments only once a day. 1464. The consumption of food sulBcient for each domestic has been calculated to be at the following AUowance of bread for men servants, two quartern loaves each, or 8lbs. per week : for women servants, one quartern or 4 lbs. each per week. Allowance <!/" butcher's meal, half a pound per head for each day s dinner for females ; throe quarters of a pound for men. Allowance cheese, one quarter of a pound per week for eacli individual. Allowance of butter, if fresh, half a pound per week for each servant, or it salt butter be used, three quarters of a pound. Allowance of tea. half a pound per month for each serv.ant. Allowance tif sugar, half a pound per week. Allowance qf beer, for the men, a pint at each meal; for the women servants, half a pint at each meal. 1465. Board wages are, in some houses, given to servants instead of food. Some regard this mode ns economical, and as diminishing the trouble of housekeeping. But others