BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 534 2991. Distillalion is the only effective process by which the water may be obtained quite pure; but. in general this would be too expensive and tedious for ordinary purposes. At sea, where fresh water is absolutely necessary, the distillation of sea water is frequently employed, as we have shown, in order to deprive it of its salt. 2992. It is very important to understand the difference between salts and the solu- ble parts of animal and vegetable bodies. The former continue in the water without any particular action, and they can be separated by chemical means, or by distillation ; but the soluble parts of animals and vegetables decompose and pass into the putrefactive state, giving out gases, and other volatile products, which are taken up by the water, and communicate to it highly deleterious properties, some of which are not yet understood, such, for example, as that which generates malaria, giving rise to marsh fever. Such, animal and vegetable substances may be in a great measure, or entirely, separated by filtration, if that method be employed before the substances are decomposed or dissolved in the water ; but after that there is no method of depriving the water of them com- pletely, with such ease that it can be practised as an affair of domestic economy : we have stated that charcoal effects this purpose partially. Such water as contains much animal or vegetable matter is extremely liable to pass into the putrid state. 2993. The importance of good water on long sea voyages is obvious; yet notwithstanding the great care that is usually taken to select the purest that can be got, it frequently happens that, when long kept, and particularly in wooden casks, it undergoes a kind of putrefaction, and becomes unfit for drinking. The cause of this change depends upon the impurities contained in the water. Water that has been naturally filtered through sand, and which does not contain salts, is generally the fittest for being carried to sea: but frequently, from local circumstances, the water of rivers is employed. Some rivers that do not take their rise from a rocky soil, and which become considerably charged with foreign matter during a long course, even over a widely cultivated plain, are remarkably free from saline contents, but are often fouled with mud and vegetable and animal exuviae, which are rather suspended than held in ti'ue solution. Such is that of the Thames, which, taken up at London when the tide is down, is soft and good water; and after rest and filtration it holds but a very small portion of anything that could prove noxious. It is excellently fitted for sea store, but, after being some time at sea, it under- goes a remarkable spontaneous change. When a cask is opened that has been kept a month or two, a quantity of inflammable air (carburetted or sulphuretted hydrogen) escapes, and the water is very black and offensive. Upon racking it off, however, into large earthen vessels, and exposing it to the air, it gradually deposits a quantity of slimy mud, becomes as clear as crystal, and remarkably sweet and palatable. This^ effect is owing to the water having contained originally a good deal of impurities, con- sisting of animal and vegetable matters, which putrefy and decompose, and in consequence give out the gases and offensive smell above-mentioned : but as soon as the decomposition of all these substances has been completed, and the fermentation has subsided, the water is pure in consequence of having thus got rid of them. Hard waters which contain sulphate of lime become more offensive than those which contain only carbonate of lime, for the former salt decomposes, and its sulphm-ic acid gives rise to sulphuretted hydrogen, which has the most disagreeable odour. 2994. It would appear that the soluble vegetable matter of the wooden casks formerly employed in the navy contributed to the putridity of the water : for now that iron tanks are substituted for them, the water may be kept much longer without being offensive. The metal becomes oxydised, and the oxide of iron thus formed mixes with the water, but by its weight and insolubility it soon falls down : or, should a small portion remain in the water, it can have no injurious effect upon health. It might be supposed that this fermentation of the foul matter in river water might be resorted to in order to purify it for the purposes of domestic economy ; but this method would be by far too tedious, and nearly the same effect is produced by filtering through charcoal. 299-5. Alum is sometimes employed in purifying nitiddy water, wliicli it does in some measure where there is a small quantity of impure organic matter. If alum be added in tlio proportion of a few pr.ains to a quart of foul water, with agitation, and then suffered to rest for twenty-four hours, a sediment will fall down, the water will become cle.ir, and may be poured off. Here the alum combines witli the impurities, as in the case of dveing, and occasions tliem to subside. If any ,alum should remain dissolved, and not combined m tlie water a little carbonate of soda may bo added ; this will decompose the alum, the soda making witli its sul- phuric acid, sulphate of soda, or Glauber's salt, which rcm.iins dissolved after the rest has been precipitated. A few drops of a solution of the red sulphate of iron added to a pound of water will produce the s.imc effect 299G A patent was lately taken out by Prqfessor Clark of Aberdeen for a method of purifying water by adding quicklime to it. But this can only unite with any carbonic acid that may be ui water, forming car- bonate of lime, wliich will be precipitated along with any carbonate of lime that may have been in the water ; but it can have no effect upon tlie sulphate of lime in water, wliich is the chief cause of its hardness. 2997. In many parts qf Hindustan the water is very impure, being wholly preserved in tanks. In that coun- try a most valuable plant, Strye/ini>s polnterum. or tlic cleansing nut, is said to have the property of puntying the water. Tlie pulp of the fruit, when ripe, is eaten by the natives, and the seeds are dried and sold m every m.-irket for this purpose. If one of the seeds be rubbed hard for a minute or two round the inside ol the vessel before the water is put in, tlic lluld, however foul, will, a short time being allowcii for it to settle, be freed from all its impurities, the adventitious matters being settled to the bottom, and the supernatant w.itcr loft clear and perfectly wholesome. These nuts arc constantly carried about by the more provident part oi