Chap. VIII. ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. e7T for their making such quantities of brandy more than in any other country : where the climate is warm, the grapes become sweet, and are often converted into raisins. 3817. T/ie general mode of preparing brandy is extremely simple, being nothing more than a well-regulated distillation of wine in suitable vessels. At the commencement of the vintage, they collect all the grapes that are not fit for good wine, ferment their juices, and distil them for brandy ; they also use for this purpose all wines that have failed in the making, although, if they have become at all acid, their brandy is tainted. 3818. TTie art of distillation is far better understood hi France than in any other part of the Continent, and hence one cause of the great superiority of the brandies of that country. There is a great difference, however, in the flavoiir even of French brandies, according to the wine that has been made use of, and this is easily discriminated by good judges. Much also depends upon the care employed in the distillation, which originally was performed by means of large alembics, but of late several newly-invented apparatus have superseded these. 3819. TTie process for making brandy in France is as follows: — The still is filled tliree parts with wine, and very great attention is given to the management of the fire, that the liquid may remain at a uniform temperature. A small quantity of the product at the beginning of the distillation is weak and not well flavoured; it is returned therefore into the still; what rises next is the richest and strongest product, and has the highest flavour of the essential oil of the wine it is prepared from ; this is called eau de vie premiere, or brandy of the first quality. As the process of distillation continues, the brandy becomes weaker and less flavoured ; the last portions being set aside by the niauufacturer, and re-distilled with fresh wine. The strength is tried by various methods ; by the hydrometer, by observing the head, or by putting a small qu,intity on the head of the hot still to see if it will take fire. Another test of strength is by a drop of oil; when this sinks if suffered to fall into the spirit, the latter is considered strong enough ; this mode of testing is called preuvc de fiuile, and indicates the strongest brandy that is drunk. When all the brandy of this strength has come over, they put it aside, and this operation they style couper ck la serpenle, which means to " stop the worm from running." The purest and most volatile essential oil rising with the first product, what comes afterwards is not so agreeable, and of course the brandy, being both weaker and not of so fine a flavour, is considered as of an inferior kind, and is called eau de vie second, which is sometimes purified by a second distillation, but sold at a lower price. It is said that the Cognac sent to England scarcely ever has the fine bouquet of the first distillation, because in this country the flavour and colour given by burnt sugar is generally preferred. Hence, for exportation, the French re-distil the second brandy to make it stronger, and then flavour it for the English market. It is said, that the flavour of the wine is so distinct in the best brandy, that persons in Friince accustomed to it can tell from the taste what wine it has been made from ; and the manufacturers can at pleasure increase or diminish the quantity of aroma by a more rapid or slower distillation. In distilling from very weak and poor wines, it is not customary to put aside " eau de vie premidre " in the first distillation, but to carry on the process till all the spirit is obtained, called pclite eau de vie, and then to strengthen it by a second distillation. This the manufacturer who wishes to export finds it most profitable to do, in order to save the expense of the casks and carriage of a weaker brandy. For exportation they bring all to the strength of trnis-six, which is in proportion to water as eight hundred and forty to a thousand. Brandy beyond " preuve de huile " is called eau de vie double; but it is seldom made above what they reckon twenty-two degrees of strength, because all above that pay nearly double duty. The best Cognac is twenty- one degrees and three-quarters. 3820. All inferior kind of brand;/, called eau de vie de marc, is also made from the marc of grapes, or the residue after the juice has been pressed out for making wine vinegar, which still retains enough of the grape juice to be readily brought into fermentation when properly arranged, and therefore is capable of yielding afterwards a spirit by distillation ; but the grape stones, and the resinous colouring matter of the fruit, together with the lees of wine and the scrapings of the casks, all put into the still, communicate a flavour which some consider bitterish and austere ; others call it nutty, and relish it. But this inferior kind of brandy is twenty-five or thirty per cent, cheaper than the best; and is drunk only by the lower classes in France ; this is sometimes preferred in England and in the north of Europe, where the burnt flavour of sugar added to it, though actually a blemish, is by some considered as an indispensable quality. The best Cognac brandy is distilled with a very gentle heat, not sufficient to raise too much of the essential oil of the wine ; the palest white wines are chiefly used. Common French brandy, eau de vie ordinaire, is made from high-coloured white wine, or pale red wine : white wines give a softer brandy than red. Brandy made in France is often so- phisticated by the manufacturers, who either put rectified malt or other spirit to the wine before distillation, by which the union is more complete than Lf added afterwards. A kind of brandy is also prepared in France by distilling a spirit from other materials ; and after getting rid of the peculiar aroma, they add a portion of the best French brandy. Various sorts of agricultural produce are thus employed, as garden and orchard fruits, honey, molasses, corn, potatoes, beet-root, or any other substances containing sugar. This in England is prevented by the Excise. 3821. The best Frencli brandy is naturally free from colour ; it is clear and transparent as water, and in France it is often preserved so for use by being put into glass or stone bottles. The general opinion in England, that a brownish yellow colour belongs essentially to brandy, is erroneous, and requires explanation. It had been remarked, that all the fine foreign brandies that had an agreeable mellowness had also a yellow colour. The colour in this ca.se had really nothing to do with their flavour ; but the same age that was neces- sary to give them mellowness gave also a colour to the spirit, extracted from the wood of the casks in which it had been kept; hence the excellence of brandies was supposed to be connected with this tint. From this circumstance great pains have been taken to colour brandies artificially to give them this appearance, which was thought to indicate age, until the English public has become so accustomed to it, that it is generally tiiought to be essen- tial to the spirit. Various substances are accordingly used by French and English dealers Xx 3