PREFACE. cularly at the time of life wliou it is first wanted, and required to be brought into i^lay. The Editor is of opinion that the heads of families should not be con- tented with the knowledge that may be gained from uneducated persons Avho necessarily commit innumerable errors in their reasoning; but that they should understand the rationale of the various processes put in practice by others, which alone can give them the power of distinguishing between what is judicious and what is faulty. To say nothing of the female portion of society, who are more particularly expected to regulate and direct domestic alFairs, there are many situations in which some ac- quaintance with domestic matters is indispensable even to the lords of the creation. This is more especially the case with officers' in the army and navy, and with those who emigrate, or form colonies. It is vain to expect many valuable improvements from persons who have only what is termed mere practise to depend upon : by frequently repeating the same operations, they acquire a certain degree of skiU, but being with' out principles to guide them, their attempts at improvement too often prove abortive; and if some scientific acquirements be essential to the progress of the domestic as well as the other arts, to whom should we look for the posses- sion of these advantages ? The answer is obvious—to those possessed of affluence and leisure, who have alone the means of attaining it sufficiently. It would be useless to pursue this subject farther; and thus much has been said to account for some peculiarities in the present work, where the Editor has adverted to this subject. The Editor ventures to hope, that to many this suggested union of science with practice will not prove irksome; on the contrary, he is satisfied that much rational amusement may be derived from the exjieriment. It may not be necessary for every one to brew or to bake, make wine, or light a fire ; yet to go through each of these operations once, so as to comprehend the prin- ciples upon which success depends, may really be made an entertaining occu- pation. In another point of view, it may be observed, that some pei*sons unac- quainted with the intimate connection that exists between the several bi'anches of human knowledge, have wondered how chemistry could be useful to a cook, or the philosophy of heat to a housemaid ; and ai'e consequently inclined to ridicule what they look upon as the pedantry of science. But it ought to occasion no surprise that the knowledge of the properties of steam should be necessary to those who constantly use it, or that some ac- quaintance with tlie theory of ventilation should direct the practice of those wlio have to cliange the air of our apartments. The wonder, indeed, is, or should be, that each should perform his duties efficiently, without some ac- quaintance with those laws of nature wliicli liave been included in the tern\ Philosophy. To illustrate still farther liis general views, the Editor will now advert briefly to the manner in which he has ti-eated each of his subjects. The subject of Building naturally claijned his first attention; but the views by which he was guided in introducing this branch of the work, as well ns (lir naliirc of the information conveyed, arc so fully described in the