ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 280 Book ^'. originally almost the only contrivances for preserving clothes, hooks, or other valuable articles not in constant use. They were most usually separate constructions, but some- times also formed part of the settle that stood in the chimney comer. The latter are still occasionally seen in old houses in remote parts of the country, but the greater part have been by this time chiefly bought up by upholsterers who manufacture ancient furniture. Plates of them may be seen in boolss on antiquities. 1242. Travelling boxes for caps or bonnets have a frame with a narrow girth crossed Ftg.Kz. —within, nsfiy. 463., to the under side of which the caps are pinned, so as not to touch the sides, or each other. Frills, laces, and light articles of that kind, are fixed upon the upper side of this network. Care should be taken to carry the boxes always top uppermost, and the caps wiU arrive at their destination without the slightest injury. The outside of the box is covered with some waterproof sub- stance, as painted canvass. 1243. Presses for linen are made nearly in the same manner as wardrobes, with sliding shelves and drawers. They should have the names of the contents of each shelf pasted on the edge : there should also be deep chests in it on castors to draw out for dirty linen ; and also spaces for baskets. If there is sutBcient space, one compartment might contain a desk with writing materials and paper, also washing-book, &c. 1244. Chests of drawers are well known, and were once universally used, till they have given way in a great measure to wardrobes. They are however still emplo}-ed, and may be purchased of various qualities and prices, from deal and wainscot to the best mahogany. All the handles of the drawers are best when of the form of knobs of hard wood ; brass tarnishing, and being otherwise liable to be out of order. If a sliding shelf were made to pull out from below the top on occasion, it would add to its convenience as a table. Low chests of drawers of the usual height of a table, when fitted up in this way, are useful as an occasional writing-table ; or there might be a flap to fold back on the top, and come forward, being supported by lopers, as in a bureau. We mention this because it is very desirable that the varieties of useful furniture should be increased by the contrivances of individuals, and not be left entirely to manufacturers, who go on repeating the same forms, and seldom attempting novelties of a cheap kind, however useful they might be. 1245. The commode is evidently, from the name, of French origin, and appears to include a chest of drawers and chiffonniere, containing drawers below, and shelves with doors above. It is a very useful piece of furniture in a good bed-room, or a ladies' sitting room. It may likewise serve as a bookcase. 1246. Foot pans are either of wood, earthenware, or metal, as tin or zinc. Small tubs are apt to open in the joints when they stand by dry for any time: earthen- ware is free from that objection ; but as the interior, being glazed, is unpleasantly sUppery, it is best to have a loose piece of board to cover the bottom loaded with lead to keep it down. They are now frequently made, in the form fig. 464., of zinc painted in oil The vessel inside is for holding water. 1247. Baskets, so useful, are too well known to require description ; but a curious fact is not so much known, that in some countries they are so well made as to hold any liquid. Vaillant, in his travels among the Soutli Africans, says, " Another ofi'ered me milk in baskets, a circumstance that astonished me. ' What,' exclaimed I, ' milk in baskets !' These baskets," he continues, " are very pretty, and fabricated with reeds so closely interwoven, that they will hold water : " and Barrow confirms this account of them. Several travellers have mentioned the ingenuity displayed in the manufacture of baskets among uncivilised nations. 1248. Fire guards of painted wire are so great a security against accidents from fire, that bed-chambers and dressing-rooms should never be without them : and in general they are proper to be used for all fires that are left for a considerable time to themselves. 1249. The principal articles requisite for the dressing-room and foilct-table are wardrobes ; commodes; wash stands ; dressing glasses; dressing case with razors; shaving boxes; hat, and clothes, and bonnet brushes ; hair, tooth, and nail brushes; shoe lifts; boot and button hooks ; tongue scrapers ; cap and wig blocks ; wardrobe powder, for dry-cleanmg silks ; corn rubbers ; toilet cushions; braid combs of various sizes ; powder boxes and pufiFs; towel aircrs ; toilet covers; work boxes, and loaded pincushions; candlestick stands ; bonnet boxes ; sponge and sponge bags ; flesh brushes ; soaps of various kmds. Fig. 464,