BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 670 tion. This IS generally prepared on some high dry situation, by sinking a pit fourteen or fifteen feet deep, hnmg it first with straw, and then with a coarse kind of blanketing. The ice is deposited in this pit, and beat down with rammers, till at length its own accu- mulated cold again freezes it, and forms one solid mass. The mouth of the pit is well secured from the exterior air with straw and blankets, and a thatched roof is thrown over the whole. The quantity of ice formed by the method above described depends on a light atmosphere, and clear serene weather. Three hundred persons are employed in this operation in one place. At first sight, this curious process may appear to be an effect of evaporation ; but this is not the case; for it is remarkable that it is essential to its success, that the straw in which the vessels are placed should be dry; whereas, if evaporation were concenied in the congelation, wetting the straw would promote it. When the straw becomes wet by accident, it is obliged to be replaced by dry straw. The explanation of this process was involved in mystery till Mr. Wells published his celebrated observations on dew, which have afforded a solution of the phenomenon. The earth is continually losing heat by radiation, and it loses most on clear starlight nights, when there are no clouds to inter- cept and send back the rays of heat. The straw, like all filamentous substances, is a good radiator of caloric, and it is in consequence of the heat that is thus given out by it into space on clear nights that the air is formed. When the weather is windy and cloudy the effect does not take place. 3781. The last metliud of cooling liquors that remains to he mentioned is obtained by t/ie solution of salts. It has been long known that certain substances generate a considerable degree of cold, particularly nitre, sal-ammoniac, Glauber's salt, muriate of lime, and several others. IBut most of these salts are so dear in Europe, that they are seldom made use of in this way, except in particular experiments, when it is wished to produce an intense degree of cold by a powerful freezing mixture. In India, where nitre is very cheap, and the heat of the climate prompts the inhabitants eagerly to adopt every possible method for counteracting it, the cooling of liquors for the table, by means of the solution of nitre in water, is very common. To effect this, the wine, water, or any other liquor, is put into a metallic bottle, generally a pewter one, having a pretty long neck. A tub is partly filled with water, and a quantity of nitre is thrown into it. Then the operator holds the bottle by the upper end of its long neck, and gently moves it about in the saline mixture while dissolving, which cools the liquor to a very considerable degree. As salts wLU produce cold only during their solution, when the first quantity has been thoroughly dissolved in the manner described, more nitre must be added; and when the water is completely saturated, so as not to be capable of dissolving more salt, the bottle, if to be cooled farther, must be removed to a tub with a fresh saline mixture. The nitre may be recovered again for the next day by exposing these solutions in shallow^ pans to the hot sim of that country. 3782. Sal-ammoniac would answer for this process; but a mixture of nitre and sal- ammoniac is the most effectual, by which a bottle of wine may even be cooled down to 32°. The best proportions are five parts nitre, five of sal-ammoniac, and sixteen of water. The solution by itself will lower in temperature several degrees below the freezing point; but when it has to abstract the heat from a vessel with wine put into it, it will not th3ii become so cold. 3783. In order to cool a bottle of wine in London from the usual temperature, 50°, down to 32°, a pound of nitre, another of sal-ammoniac, and a proportionable quantity of water will be required: but to cool it to a considerable degree, half the quantity of salt will be sufficient; even this is too much for ordinary use, and mixtures of this kind in powder are ,sold in London for the purpose, by Mr. Fuller, of Jermyn Street, who likewise maim- factures a useful freezing apparatus for making ice creams. 3784. An intense degree of cold is produced by a mixture of snow and salt in equal parts. The salt causes the snow to melt in consequence of the attraction which it has for water, even in the frozen state ; and as they both unite, the snow is dissolved into water, and the water dissolves the salt, so that both become li(iuid. The cold thus generated is no less than 32° below the freezing point, or down to zero of Fahrenheit's thermometer, and is a much more intense degree of cold than is required for the ordinary purposes of cooling liquids for beverage: but it may be useful to know how to increase the usual degrees of cold upon occasion. Pounded ice will do nearly as well as snow; any sub- stance having a very strong atti-action for water may be substituted for the salt 3785. //' chloride of calcium ( formcrli/ called muriate of li?nc) he mixed with snow, a still greater degree of cold will be produced ; by this means 50° below the freezing point has been obtained, which is sufficient to render even mercury a solid mass; consequently such a degree of cold can be measured only by a spirit thermometer, spirits of wine never freezing. The principle of this is the same as the last, the great attraction which chloride of calcium has for water. 378G. iVo means have been discovered for depriving bodies of all their heat; nor is it