WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. OCaxp. II. 961 .against each other, as they swiftly i-evolve on being set in motion by a common handle, ^adapted to be turned either by men's labour, or any sort of mill-work. By passing through this engine, the locks of wool, which before were close and matted together, are idrawn out, the fibres are separated, and it is formed into light flakes, called lap. 5648. The carding engine receives this lap, works it over again, and delivers it in a marrow band, or sliver, which is preparatory to the spinning. Carding opens up and sepa- rrates completely the woolly fiilaments, and renders the fleece lighter, more homogeneous; :it also occasionally disentangles the connections of the fibres, and causes the broken ■Jilaments to cross each other in every possible direction. By this the texture of the wool :is rendered more downy, and the filaments made more elastic, and disposed to lay hold of ; each other, and thus put into a condition more favourable for the fulling process. Before (the invention of machines for carding, to produce the roll or sliver, this pi'ocess was [■performed by hand-cards, which were mentioned in the description of spinning wool; but lit is now done much better by the machine. 5649. The cardingg are next taken, in the form of light and delicate round rolls, to the sslubbing or roving machirie, by which the separate lengths delivered by the carding engine lare joined together by children, called pieccners, and drawn out in a continuous spongy coord to six times their former length, giving them at the same time a slight twist to main- '.tain their cohesion and uniformity, thus forming what is called a slabbing or roving, which ■is, in fact, a" very loose soft thread, that is afterwards to be completed and made into \yarn by spinning. This latter operation, now performed so expeditiously by machinery, nwhich only requires the attendance of boys, was formerly done by hand, on a spinning I'wheel, as we have mentioned. Of course, various ingenious contrivances are necessary t to prevent so tender a substance as wool cardings to draw out without breaking. Rovings f'for warp yarn must be more twisted than for weft. 5650. The wool stubbing or rovings are now spun into icoollen yarn of the requisite fine- ness, either by the spinning jenny or the mule, machines more particularly noticed in oitr ([description of the Cotton Manufacture, Chap. IV. Sect. IIL, for which they were first in- vvented. In the structure and mechanical properties of its filaments, short or carding wool rresembles cotton very closely, and therefore it may be spun by machinery nearly similar. The asperities on the surface of the filaments render the spinning of wool difficult. IThis is in a great measure removed by besmearing it with oil, by which the inequalities >;are filled up, or at least the asperities become less sensible. When the wool is made into ocloth, it is necessary to remove the oil, which is done by the process of fulling. For the weaving of cloth see " Weaving," Chap. I. Sect. III. From the similarity of tthe materials, the weaving of woollen cloth is not very different from that of cotton. ^ We may just observe, that what is termed the list of cloth, which is a strip of different (-■colour at the edges, consists of a few stronger threads than the rest, to afford a firm hold i'for the hooks in tentering, to be described. In the state in which the cloth is woven, the fabric would be too open, and the threads ttoo apparent, to suit with the taste of the time, or to be as soft and comfortable as is rrequired for dress. To render it more compact, and to improve its appearance, it goes I through the next process. 5651. It is the milling and fulling that gives to cloth that compactness and density which iMistinguish it from all other woollen fabrics. By this operation a cloth of forty yards long, nand one hundred inches wide, is so shrunk up, and consequently thickened, as to be re •-duced to thirty yards long, and sixty inches wide, which renders it of the proper sub sstance and thickness of common superfine cloth. The cloth to be milled is first cleared, Iby scouring, from the oil with which it was imbued for the carding ; and as fullers' earth 1 is u.sed, this operation is termed fulling. Previously to the milling, a liquor is sprinkled ' on it, made of fine soap dissolved in water, and it is then laid in the mill-trough, where it is I pounded or stamped on by heavy flat wooden hammers moved by wheel work. The pro- ; perty of being rendered thicker by compression is peculiar to woollen substances; if t fabrics of silk or cotton were-subjected to the same process, they would not, in any length ' of time, be rendered thicker or more compact by it. This property depends upon the peculiar structure of the fibres of wool. These, when «viewed through a microscope of great power, appear like a number of rings inserted into one another {fig. 783.), the edges of a longitudinal section being serrated or marked like a saw. By this peculiar structure of the fibres, they are disposed to move in one direction more easily than in another ; and during the violent agitation which the cloth undergoes in the mill trough, being at every stroke of the mill- hammer strongly impelled together, they are driven into the closest possible ■ Fig. 783. 'contact, and at length hook into each other, drawing closer and closer as the process continues, till they become thus firmly and inextricably united : thus «€ach thread, both of the warp and the woof being so joined and compacted with those I that are contiguous to it, the whole is formed into a dense substance, that is not liable, ' like other fabrics, when cut with shears, to unravel and become ragged at the edges.