RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. 90G Piccaxiiliy'"' "'"""^ <^sscnces and tinctures are kept ready for sale In London shops, particularly Fortnum's, MO!). Chili vinegar— Infuse fiay red English chilies (cut In h.-ilfor pounded) in a pint of the best vincKar lor li lortnight. A quarter of an ounce of cayenne pepper added to the vinegar will answer as well Lliilt wine is obtained by putting fifty pounded red chilies into brandy instead of vinegar. 5210. Basil wine or vinepar. — Fill a wide-mouthed bottle with fresh green biisil leaves, and cover them with vinegar or wine, and let them steep for ten days. If a very strong essence be required, the liquor must be strained o(I, and more leaves be added to it, to steep in it for anoth(!r fortnight; when this is done it must be corked down. When used, a table-spoonful will give to mock-turtle soup the basil flavour. .Mil. Garlic vinegar or wine. —Tnke a stone jar and put into it a bottle of white wine, Jialf a glass of vinegar, the juice of two lemons, six cloves of garlic, the same number of cloves, the quarter of a nutmeg and two bay leaves. Put the jar into a kettle of hot water, and set it over the fire ; when it boils, cover the kettle close and take it otT the fire, and let it stand closely covered near the fire for seven or eight hours • strain it through a coarse sieve ; tlien filter and bottle, keeping it closely corked. A few drops wUI give a strong flavour to a pint of soup or gravy. A slight flavour of garlic is one of the finest we have: used to excess it is disagreeable. .5212. Eschalot timc/fnr. —Eschalots are in high perfection during July, August, and September. Peel and chop a quarter of a iJound of eschalots, and pour on them a quart of white wine vinegar ; stop the jar and let It steep for ten days, shaking it well every day. Pour off" the clear liquor into small bottles. 5213. Eschalot wine is a more expensive but a finer flavoured extract of eschalots than the above, and is prepared in nearly the same way. Three ounces of eschalots peeled and pounded are infused in a pint of sherry for ten days, the liquor is then poured off; and three more ounces of eschalots peeled and pounded are put to it, and suffered to steep in it for ten days longer, when the wine is again poured off and put into bottles and closely corked. An ounce of scraped horse-radish may be added, and the thin rind of lemon. 5214. Tarragon vinegar This is an agreeable addition to soups, salad, sauce, and to mix in mustard. A wide-mouthed bottle must be filled with fresh-g.ithered tarragon leaves. These should be g.ithered on a dry day any time between IMidsiiramer and Michaelmas, just before it flowers. The leaves must be picked from the stalks and dried a little before tlie fire, covered with the best vinegar, and steeped for fourteen days ; strained through a jelly-bag until fine, and bottled in half-pint bottles ; these must be carefully corked, and kept in a dry place. 5215. Mushroom catsup. — Look out for mushrooms from the beginning of September ; take care they arc of the right sort, and fresh gathered ; full-grown flaps are to be preferred ; put a layer of these at the bottom of a pan, and sprinkle them with salt, then another layer of mushrooms and some salt on them, and so on alternately, salt and mushrooms: let them remain two or three hours, by which time the salt will have penetrated the mushrooms, and rendered them easy to break ; then pound them in a mortar, or mash them well with your hands and let them remain for two days, not longer, stirring them up and mashing them well Ciich day. Then pour them into a stone jar, and to each guart add an ounce and a half of whole black pepper and half an ounce of allspice ; stop the jar close, and set it in a stew-pan of water, and keep it boiling for two hours at least. Pour the juice clear from the settlings through a hair sieve (without squeezing the mush- rooms) into a clean stew-pan ; let it boil very gently for half an hour; those who are for superlative cjitsup will continue the boiling till the mushroom juice is reduced to half the quantity ; it may then be called double catsup. There are-several advantages attending this concentration : it will keep much better, and only half the quantity be required ; so that you can flavour sauce, &c. without thinning it: neither is this an extra- vagant way of making it, for merely the aqueous part of the water is evaporated: skim it well, and pour it out into a clean jar or jug; cover it close, and let it st.ind in a cool place till the next day; then pour it off"as gently as possible, so as not to disturb the settlings at the bottom of the jug, through a tamis or thick flannel bag, till it is perfectly clear; add a table-spoonful of good brandy to each pint of catsup, and let it stand as before ; a fresh sediment will be deposited, from which the catsup is to be quietly poured off", and bottled in pints or half-pints which have lieen washed with brandy or spirit: it is best to keep it in such quantities as are soon used. Take especial care that it is closely corked or dipped in bottle cement. If kept in a cool dry place, it m.iy be preserved for a long time ; but if it be badly corked, it will soon spoil. Examine it from time to time by placing a strong light behind the neck of the bottle, and if any pellicle appears about it, boil it up again with a few peppercorns. 521(). JValnut catsup.— Boll or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, ditto of eschalots ; one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, .md one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the eschalots sink, then put the liquor into a pair till cold; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over each. It will keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Take care to express the juice at home ; it is rarely unadulteriited if bought. 5217. Walnut catsup made of the green walnuts Bruise one hundred and twenty young walnuts ; put to them three quarters of a pound of salt, and a quart of good wine vinegar ; stir them every day for a fortnight; then strain and squeeze the liquor from them through a cloth, and lay it aside ; put to the husks half a pint of vinegar, and let it stiind all night; then strain and squeeze them as before, adding the liquor obtained from them to what was put aside the day before ; add one ounce and a quarter of whole black pepper, forty cloves, half an ounce of nutmegs brinsed or sliced, half .nn ounce of ginger, and five drachms of mace, and boil it for half an hour, then strain it off from the spices, and bottle it for use. 5218. Tomata catsup Take one gallon of fine red full-ripe tomatas ; mash them up with half a pound of salt; let them rest for three days, then press off the juice, and to each quart add two ounces of eschalots and one ounce of ground black pejiper ; boil these up together for half an hour, then strain them through a sieve, and put to the juice the following spices: quarter of an ounce of mjice, allspice ditto, ginger ditto, nutmeg ditto, one drachm of coriander seed, and half a drachm of cochinral; bruise them all together, and let them simmer together gently for twenty minutes, .uid strain them through a sieve. When cold, bottle it, and add a wine-glass of brandy to each bottle ; cork it, and it will keep good for seven years. 5219. Oyster catsup. — Take some fine fresh Milton oysters, wash them in their own liquor, then pound them in a marble mortar, and to a pint of oysters add a pint of sherry; boil them up, and add an ounce of salt, two drachms of pounded mace, and one drachm of cajenne; let them all boil up again; skim them, and'rub them through a sieve. When cold, put it into bottles: cork, and seal it well. It is best to pound the spice in the mortar with the oysters. Sect. VIII. PASTRY. SuBSECT. 1. — Preparing Pie Cnists. r>220. Pastry generally is composed of similar ingredients, but Tvliich, being diflFercntly pioportioned and incorporated, form many varieties; such as the rich, the plain, the Jiihy or pu ff paMry, the short crnst, &c. In hot weather, a cool place, a marble slab, and cool hands'are essential iu making good pastry ; in the winter it is necessary to render the temperature warmer. The cook, in hot weather, should place the butter to be used