Chap. IV. 841 FURNITURE OF THE KITCHEN, ETC. FifT, 70J*. or soup to be made ; a, a stand for holding eggs, as is shown in the cut: the cover is represented by the dotted line, or instead of this may be placed the tea-kettle, c. 47^2. An cxtensire po7'tabic cooking apparatus has been made upon this principle, by which roasting, boil- ing, stevviug, and cooking by steam may all be per- formed at the same time, the fuel being only an oil lamp, a, b, d,fig. 700*., is the section of a cylindrical vessel of sheet iron placed over a lamp with a number of small wicks, e, and resting upon a circular stone hollowed out for the lamp, or on an inclosed frame of iron, then- being a series of holes all round to admit air to supply the lamp. Within the vessel a, b, c, (/, which contains water, another iron vessel, h, i, is sus- pended, to the bottom of which the flame of the lamp is admitted through an aperture, /, in the bottom of the boiler with water. The smoke passes off through a minute crevice at U, k. It is evident that the fljune of the lamp being so much confined, will produce a powerful ehect upon the water in the boiler, and like- wise that covering the aperture /; it will strike upon the bottom of the vessel h, i, in which meat is put upon a stand to roast. If this vessel be divided into two by a parti'ion, one half may boil; or the steam may be conducted by means of the pipe b to another where the boiling may he done'; indeed, sufficient steam may be generated in this way to boil the water in a number of other vessels, and the steam may be admitted into others for cooking by steam. Small saucepans for gravies, tS:c., ni;iy also be iitted on all round, as at m. In short, it is easy to see that, upon this principle, with only a strong lamp, cooking may be performed in many ways, and an excellent dinner prepared ; but it cannot he pretendi'd that the roasting can be equal to what is done before an open fire. Such an apparatus is very applic.ible to a ship or to a camp ; and for the former, it has been made to swing like the ship's com- pass. But though we point it out as a contrivance Fig. 701. that may be exceedingly useful in sucli situations, it is absurd to speak of it as one that should supersede the ordinary kitchen, particularly when we consider the cost of the apparatus, which must necessarily be con- siderable. Something of this kind was manufactured by Mr. Jose, of Bond Street, London, and we believe was invented by Lord Cochrane. 47.')3. As an occasional method of keeping anything hot for some time, may be mentioned placing it in a vessel of sheet-iron filled with sand, in which is buried a red-hot iron heater. The non- conducting property of tlie sand will retain the heat for a consi- derable time, and w ill not cause any unpleasant fume like charcoal. Sec a, fig. 701. ilfii. Heat tnay he occasionally applied to a particular part of any object by means of an iron ring handle, b,fig. 701., to which is attached a cup of iron wire that can be filled with live coals. The little machine called an Etna, fig. 702., may he mentioned, for the purpose of warming or boiling water in a lew minutes.. It consists of a tin vessel in form of an in- verted cone to hold the water, and this is phiced in a cup of tin, into which a little spirit of wine or naphtha is poured, and set fire to. The flame striking against the sides of the cone very soon causes the water to boil. The handle is made to go inside when packed up for travelling. Fig,102. CHAP. IV. FURNITURE OF THE KITCHEN AND OTHER OFFICES. 475.5. In the following account of kitchen furniture, the principal things only are de- scribed, together with such as have any novelty, or are not very generally known; there ai'e many other small articles with which every family is familiar, and which it is not necessary to mention : but almost all of these will be found in the general list of furniture at the end of this section. 4756. Kitchen tables. —There is generally a very strong, well framed table, with stout ^ legs, placed in the centre of the kitchen. In large kitchens, the top is frequently made of thick elm, for chopping and cut- ting upon. Smaller tables may be placed along the walls, as is found most conve- nient. Where economy of space is an object, some may consist of flaps to hang against the walls, to be used occasionally, fiy. 70.3., and these are sometimes made to serve as ironing boards. The top, when lifted up, is supported by a jib bracket leg of wood, or an iron rod. 47.')7. Chcdp round tables may be made like fuj. 704. with only three legs, which have this advantage, that they stand steadier on an uneven floor than those with four legs. The legs may even be branches of trees cut to the length, and the top may be square.