Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 781 For salting, wooden troughs ar. generally used; some line them -with lead, but this is better omitted, as this metal may prove injurious. Glazed salting pans are purposely made of Welsh -ware, or Nottingham stoneware, -which answer very well; but common red earthenware pans are liable to have the glaze destroyed. The first operation is to . clear away any blood or slimy matter that may-appear on the meat, and to remove any kernels. It should be then slightly sprinkled with salt, and laid on sloping boards for a . day or two for the blood to drain off; and the brine that runs out must be thrown away, ; as unfit to use again, if the weather be warm, for the blood and other juices that are ( extracted are apt to putrefy ; but if the weather be cold, the brine may be saved to be 1 used over again, if necessary, after boiling. The meat should then be wiped with clean I cloths. Dry some common salt in an oven, and bruise it by rolling ; some add to this 1 brown sugar, in the proportion of three ounces of salt to one of sugar, which will assist in I preserving the meat, and also render it more juicy and mellow. The salt should now be • well rubbed into every part of the meat; after which the meat should remain in the trough t for a day, and then be turned and rubbed again for several days successively. If it be 1 required to have the meat to look red, add half an ounce of saltpetre to the salt ; but it is i to be observed, that this rather tends to harden it. As to the time required for salting, I that will depend partly upon the size of the joints, the manner in which the salt has been I rubbed in, and the length of time it is required to be preserved. Meat requires, in ( general, from four or five days to a fortnight, according to the size. Much salt injures its 1 nutritive properties, and makes it tough; but when slightly salted, or corned, as it is ( called, it is still juicy and tender, easily digested, and sufficiently nourishing. Rubbing i in salt cannot be applied to fish, on account of their tenderness not bearing the necessary 1 rubbing. Salt meat is flavoured sometimes by adding to the salt some sweet herbs, onions, &c. ] pounded, and likewise a little spice. 4461. Salting meat by pickle is keeping meat immersed in a pickle, which is a brine (composed of common salt dissolved in water. This mode of application does not render t the meat so salt as dry rubbing, but is not calculated for keeping it so well for a great 1 length of time, being chiefly limited to small pieces ; it is thought, however, to be less i injurious to the nutritious quality of the meat. 4462. A pickle for domestic pwposes is by some recommended to consist of six or seven t pounds of salt, and four ounces of saltpetre, to four gallons of water, boiled together, t carefully skimmed, and then suffered to get cold before the meat is put in ; to this some L add a pound or two of sugar, which assists in preserving, without making the meat so 5 salt, and corrects the hardness given by the saltpetre. It is essential that the meat should t be kept wholly immersed in the pickle, by laying some weight upon it. Meat preserved 1 in pickle gains in weight. Messrs. Donkins and Gamble found in one experiment a gain I of three per cent.; in another two and a half. It should always be kept in mind, that ; the true art of preserving meat by salting is to do with the smallest quantity of salt that c can answer the purpose. 4463. When meat is to be preserved a long time, the brine should consist of a saturated solu- ttion of salt. A common direction in books is, that the brine should be so strong that an tegg will float in it; but this is a very imperfect test of its strength, for an egg will not ' only float in a saturated solution, but in one that has double its measure of common water J added to it; and from observing this imperfect direction, and making their brine too \ weak, some persons have failed in preserving their meat. Indeed, it would be advisable that t the brine should not only be as strong as it can be made, but that a little more salt should H)e added than can be dissolved; because, as the meat is constantly giving out its juices up t to a certain period, these juices will lower the strength of the brine below the preserving : point ; but if there is an excess of salt present, it will dissolve in the juices given out, and t thus the strength of the brine will be kept up. A saturated solution of salt is made by 0 dissolving seven ounces and a half of salt in an imperial pint of water at 60°. When the fmeat has lain sufficiently in the brine, it is to be taken out and packed in casks with dry ■ salt between each layer of meat. A strong brine or pickle for preserving meat a long time, 'Or for sea voyages, is made by boiling down the solution ; and the rule is, that the water 'should be evaporated till the salt begins to crystallise, which is known by a thin film of < salt beginning to form on the surface when the liquid is on the fire ; the water is then ■completely saturated. 4464. The same pickle may he used repeatedly, provided it be boiled up occasionally, 'with additional salt to preserve its strength, as this is diminished by the combination of iipart of the salt with the meat, and by the dilution of the pickle by the juices extracted. 1 In consequence of boiling, the albumen, which would cause the pickle to spoil by changing ■very soon, is coagulated, and rises to the surface in the fbrm of a scum, which must be 'Carefully removed. 4'IGiS. Notwlthst.indlng thn antiseptic power of tho salt, the brine that has been used Is very liable to piitre- faction ; Tor the blood and all the liquid parts of an animal arc more putrescent than the flesh. Mr. Kamaay,