490 Book VIL ON FOOD. bitter almonds are chewed, the moisture of the mouth and the emulsin of the seeds effect the decomposition of the amygdalin, and the consequent formation of prussic acid and volatile oil. Though the proportion of these poisons in a few of the almonds does not prove fatal, yet when almonds have been eaten in large quantities, serious and even fatal consequences have been the result. 2689. The volatile oil of bitter almonds is sold some in shops under the name of essence of hitter almonds : and this is a most potent poison, being in general four times as powerful as the prussic acid kept in chemist's shops. A single drop of it will kill a cat in a few minutes. This preparation is sold to dealers in cordials, to make what they call " genuine noyeau," and it is used by some confectioners to flavour their preparations; but it is evident that so dangerous a substance should not be trusted in the hands of persons not thoroughly acquainted with its deleterious effects. See " Prussic Acid," Book VII. Chap. VII. Sect. 16. 2690. Almonds contain a large proportion affixed oil, which is obtained by expression ; this is mild and wholesome, and is much used in medicine as a pure oil. \Vhen almonds and water, with a little sugar, are triturated together in a mortar, a white liquor results, which is considered to be vei-y nearly similar to animal milk, and is called milk of almonds; it is curdled by acids. Cream even separates from this milk, which may be converted into a species of buttec Several substances not mixible of themselves with water may, by trituration with almonds, be mixed with it, and thus fitted for medicinal use; such mixtures are called emulsions. Almond oil is used for making fine soap; and the almond cake, after pressing out the oil, is employed as a cosmetic. Both sweet and bitter almonds contain the bland fixed oil obtained by expression, but it is chiefly procured from bitter almonds, which, after being blanched, are submitted to great pressure between two hot iron plates ; the matter which remains, or the almond cake, is the source of the prussic acid, which is obtained by a subsequent process. "When the cake is moistened with boiling water, the odour of the volatile oil, and of prussic acid, is immediately perceived. 2691. The importation of almonds into England amounts annually to about six hundred tons, of which about ninety-five are Jordan, the rest chiefly from Barbary and Spain. Bitter almonds come chiefly from Magadore. ScTBSECT. 3 Apricot {Prumts Armeniaca, Linn.). 2692. 77ie genus Prunus includes the apricot,plum, and sloe. The apricot was cultivated by the Romans, and is stated by Pliny to have been brought from Armenia, where it is found abundantly on the slopes of the mountains. Vast quantities grow in the oases of Africa, and are carried in a dried state to Egypt. It is the opinion of Mr. Royle, author of the " Botany of the Himalaya," that the Cabul mountains are the source of the apricot, as well as many others of our fruit trees. He states that the apricot grows wild at present in the hills between the Ganges and Junma, as well as in Cashmere, together with the peach, nectarine, walnut, abnond, plum, cherry, and also the apple, pear, quince and pomegranate. It is also planted very abundantly round the villages, the fruit being eaten both fresh and dried, while a fine oil is expressed from the kernels. It is likewise plen- tiful in China and Japan. 2693. In the climate of England it is of less importance than many other fruits; its blossoms, in early seasons, are very subject to the effect of spring frosts, which renders its crops precarious. It is, however, much cultivated, and is used at the dessert, though inferior to the peach. The yoimg fruit makes an excellent tart and preserve or jam, which is the use to which the apricot is best suited, possessing a moderate degree of acidity with a rich saccharine quality. The apricots produced upon standards, which are the best, do not appear north of Ipswich, and several of the sorts known in the south of Europe are too tender for England. It was first brought to this country by the gardener to Henry VIII. SuBSECT. 4.—Plmn (JPrtinus domestica. Linn.) 2694. The wild sloe is considered bi/ Mr. Knight as the parent of the plum, but the accli- mated kinds come from the East, the cultivation of this fruit was probably attended to very early in England, as Gerard informs us that in 1597 he had in his garden in Holborn three score sorts. . „ i. 2695 The damson, or Damascene plum, takes its name from Damascus, where it grows in great quantities, and from whence it was brought into Italy about 114 years b. c. The Orleans plum is from France. The green gage is called after the Gage family, who first brought It to England from the monastery of the Chartreuse at Pans, where it still beare the name of Peine Claude. The magnum boniim is our largest plum, and greatly esteemed for preserves and culinary purposes. The best sorts of plums are agreeabLe at the dessert, and when perfectly ripe, are wholesome ; but some are too astringent. They lose much of their bad qualities by baking; and are extensively used, from their cheapness in tarts and preserves, but they are not a very wholesome fruit, and shoiUd be eaten in moderation.