360 ON FOOD. Book VII. 1748. Tlie most ohvioun practical division of animal substances M'liich come into the possession of the cook is into, 1. flesh, with the tendons ; 2. bone and cartilage • 3 skin • 4. fat ot various kinds ; 5. blood, to which may be added, membrane, brain, shell, horn, hair^ and wool. Each of these substances, though belonging to different animals, has certain distinguishing properties by wliich they are easily recognised and named: thus it is easy to distinguish flesh from bone or fat. At the same time, each of them differs some- what in the various animals from which they are procured: thus the flesh of the sheep differs from that of the hog, and from beef or the flesh of the ox. Our business, how- ever, at present is not to consider these well-known and obvious distinctions, but to mquire what is flesh 9 ivhat is hone? and what is fat? what, in short, is the chemical or actual nature of each of these substances? 17-19. A sliyht examination will be sufficient to convince us that each of these is not a single substance, but compounded of several, which are every day separated from each other by the cook without thinking of chemistry or chemical terms. For example, when a piece of meat is boiled, melted fat rises to the surface; when that is skimmed off, and the boiling continued for a length of time till the meat is done to rags, as the cook would say, soup is made ; and, if that be concentrated by evaporation by still farther boiling, a jelly will be obtained. The remains of the meat will be a fibrous or stringy mass, almost deprived of fat and juice. Here the meat is separated into fat, jelly, and the fibres of the meat. A similar jelly may also be extracted from bones, but what remains afterwards is a hard solid mass, not resolvable into fibres, and very different from meat. If we pursue our examination with respect to all the parts of animals, we shall still obtam fat, the fleshy fibre, jelly, and bony matter not soluble, some parts containing more, and some less, of each of these ; and we shall learn to consider all the various parts as made up of the materials we have mentioned, that is to say, that animal substances in general, with- out regard to the particular parts of the animal, consist of fleshy fibre, fat, jelly, bone, &c. What we have just been doing is, in fact, a separation of animal substances into their component parts; and here we have a division of them much more obvious than tha which we considered before, namely, into oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and nitrogen ; th fibre, jelly, fat, &c., being things which we can see and touch, and with which every cook and every person is familiar. SuBSECT. 2. —Proximate Principles. 1750. To the well-known substances last mentioned we give the very useful name of the proximate principles of animal bodies, to distinguish them from those which are termed elementary principles, or elements ; and the connection between these two is this: — each of the proximate principles, as, for instance, jelly, is made up, or compounded, of the four elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, although this fact is not discoverable hy any ordinary process of the kitchen. Neither fleshy fibre nor jelly is ever separated hy the cook into the elements of which it consists; and for this knowledge we are indebted to the chemist alone. By his art he is enabled to decompose jelly, fleshy fibre, &c., and to say what elements they are composed of. This kind of chemical examination he calls the analysis of the substance, and the process he calls decomposition, that is, he decom- poses jelly, and finds it to consist of the elements oxygen, hydi'ogen, carbon, and nitrogen. We are aware that we are now employing terms not in use among those who do not possess a smattering at least of science ; but these terms are neither numerous, nor diffi- cult to be understood, and they are coming rapidly into popular use. We trust, how- ever, that the reader will have a little patience with us, and consider what we are saying with attention, and we promise that we will not leave him until the whole has been made as plain as he can desire. 1751. We will now enumerate the proximate principles of animal bodies under their scien- tific names. They are, \. Fibrin; 2. Gelatine; Z. Albumen; 4. Oil and fat; 5.0sma:ome; 6. Casein. These are the chemical names, which it is best always to emplo}% without fearing to be considered affected or pedantic. Fibrin is the fleshy fibre of meat when it is boiled to rags. Gelatine is only another name for animal jelly, but which it is neces- sary to use for distinction, because there is a very different kind of jelly from fruits. Albumen is familiar to every one, being the same thing as white of eggs. Oil is well known ; and the only stranger is osmazome, which we shall describe in its place. Now when we are asked, what is flesh ? what is bone ? what is skin ? we have to consider ■which of these proximate principles each consists of; and also in what proportions they exist together. We would say, then, that flesh consists of fibrin, gelatine, albumen, oil, and osmazome: in fact, it contains the whole list: but if we are to describe what skin is composed of, we should say that it consists almost wholly of gelatine and fat. We intend this merely as an example, for we shall speak of each of the proximate principles in detail, before we proceed farther. Now the reader will no doubt recollect and under- stand, that none of these proximate principles can be simple bodies, because we have