121? BATHING. CiiAP. nr. 4 I SuBSECT. 2. — Cold Bath. 7178. 77ie temperature of tJieliumm frame in a state of health continues nearly the same in whatever circumstances it is placed. This in an adult is generally from 97° to 98°. In some cases of disease, the temperature is above this standard, even as high as 106°, ■while in others it sinks far below this standard. The functions by which the body is enabled to preserve this uniformity of temperature are intimately connected with the nervous system and the respiratory organs by which heat is developed. The skin performs the function of regulating it, especially in reducing it when too high. AVhen the body is placed in a medium of lower temperature than itself, the heat is abstracted more or less rapidly from the surface, which would have the effect of chilling it, were not this counteracted by the internal development of heat. When surrounded by an aeriform medium much higher than itself, the exhalations from the surface both of the skin and lungs are greatly augmented : that from the former being thrown off in the form of perspiration, that of the latter in the form of vapour ; the evaporation attending these processes occasions a reduction of temperature. The cold bath mcludes immersion in cold water, or that of a temperature from 33° to G5°, whether in the open sea, rivers, ponds, &c., or in large or small baths under a roof. 7179. It is proper first to consider the usual effect of a cold bath on a person in good health, who uses it only as a measure of hygiene : on immersion, there is first felt a general sensation of cold, proportioned to the lowness of the temperature of the water, and if the immersion be sudden, a peculiar impression on the nervous system is felt, forming a shock to the whole system, which is one of the most important circumstances belonging to • the use of the cold bath ; the skin shrinks, becomes cooler and paler, and the respiration is more hurried than before ; but this is almost immediately succeeded by an equally universal sensation of warmth, which increases rapidly to a certain point, so as to cause the surrounding water, though actually cold, to feel comfortable, and this feeling is sooner produced, and continues longer, in proportion as the person is in full health and naturally possesses a vigorous circulation. By degrees, however, if the body continues immersed, it becomes chilled; violent shivering comes on, the extremities become numb and pale ; sometimes sickness takes place, and at last the animal powers are exhausted by cold and fatigue. In this process, the most remarkable effects are those which occur first, and are directly consequent to the shock of immersion; and it is only when it occurs, that the cold bathing should be suffered to proceed. 7180. The sensations of returning warmth which take place directly after the cold of the first immersion constitute what is called the reaction of the si/stcm. Medical writers explain this reaction by stating that the almost instantaneous result of the shock is the excitement of the nei-vous system to increased activity, in virtue no doubt of that general principle of self-conservation bestowed in a greater or less degree on all living organised beings. The fluids are repelled from the surface to the internal organs, which are thus stimulated and roused to action ; in consequence of which the blood is propelled through the whole capillary system, more particularly of the surface, carrying with it life and renovated energy. If the bath is left before the second attack of sh ivering, or before this has continued too long, the bather generally experiences, on dressing, a renewal of the reaction which had followed the shock of immersion; and this having now nothing to counteract it becomes more vivid and permanent. The pulse becomes fuller and stronger than before immer- sion ; the skin recovers the plumpness it had lost; all sense of oppression and languor vanishes, and is succeeded by a feeling of buoyancy, and an agreeable consciousness of increased animal power. No second glow ever succeeds the second chill above mentioned, but the debility increases with the length of the immersion. 7181. The whole effect ma;/ be distinguished into, 1. the shock, the effect of which is : stimulating; 2. the cooling effect; 3. tlie contracting or astringent effect; and 4. the re- ■ action. Cold bathing may be applied so as to ensure one or other of these actions over : any of the rest, according to circumstances, when all are not desired. 7182. The cold bath, when used by persons in health, increases the tone of the habit, strengthens the digestive organs, and by diminishing the sensibility of the whole system, and particularly of the skin, renders the body less susceptible of atmospheric impressions from cold, wet, and sudden changes of temperature — thus contributing to the production ' of what is termed a robust or athletic constitution : hence the beneficial effects of using the cold bath daily, and that early in the morning when just out of bed, have been ex- perienced by persons engaged in such service as the ordnance survey, where they have ' to ascend high lands, and are thus exposed to a frequent change of climate. 7183. Where the shock, as a stinwlus to the nervous system in cases of debility, is the ; principle desired, the water should be very cold, and the time of remaining in the bath should be only momentary ; and after the first plunge, the bather should leave the bath,