FISH. 421 Chap. VI. 2191 It is known that many adulterations are practised with anchovies in England, such as putting anchovy liquor upon pickled sprats or pilchards ; and as the red colour is con- sidered essential, red lead, a poisonous substance, has been employed to colour it; others colour them ^vith cochineal or red bole. It will be prudent, therefore to procure anchovies fresh as they come over from Gorgona, and to take care that the flesh itself is red which is not the case with the sprat. Anchovies are offered for sale in London at the rate of 30*. the double barrel, of 38 to 40 lbs., or 16.5. the single barrel. They will keep lon-T if covered with brine, but soon spoil if exposed to the air. ^ . , oi9-^ Essence of anchovies is most liable to be adulterated. It may be made in the foUowin'^ manner : Take three pounds of anchovies, pulp them through a fine hair sieve ; boil the bones with salt and water, seven ounces of salt to six pints of water; strain, and add seven ounces of flour; then pass the whole through a sieve. This should produce one gallon of the essence. No colouring pigment should be added, though this is directed in most of the receipts ; all of them spoil the flavour of the anchovy. The addition of lobsters' eggs will, however, not only be harmless, but will improve the flavour, and, says the " Cook's Oracle," is the only rouge to be recommended. SuBSECT. 27 Tlie Doni, or John Dory {Zeasfaber, Linn.). 2193. This fish is probably so named from the French doree, gilded, in consequence of its golden yellow colour. It is a rare fish in general, though sometimes taken in pro- fusion on the Cornish and Devonshire coasts : the average weight is about five pounds; but some specimens sent to the London market have been twice as much. It appears to be a wandering fish, and is in high estimation for the table : the flesh, when dressed, is of a clear white. Most of those purchased in London are brought by land-carriage from Plymoalh and other parts of the Devonshire coast. Being a ground fish, they are not the worse for keeping till the second or third day. When fresh caught they are tough. SuBSECT. 28.— The Sturgeon (Accipenser sturio, Linn.). 2194. This is one of those fishes that migrate from the sea to fresh water: the former serves for its production; but it never goes to any great distance from land, and it is only in large rivers that it grows to its usual size. It is found in the ocean, in the Baltic, the Mediterranean, Black Sea, Caspian, and in prodigious numbers in the large rivers which flow into them. The greatest sturgeon fishery is at the mouth of the Volga in the Caspian Sea. This fish is likewise abundant in the rivers of North America, and there are regular fisheries in the river Garonne, on the coast of France: occasionally it is taken in the Thames, and is one of those fishes considered as only royal property. The rivers Eske and Eden afford large sturgeon ; the form of the fish is lengthened and slender, with a long projecting snout; its body is defended by hard scales, and bony tubercles; the mouth is small, placed beneath, and is without teeth. It is a very strong vigorous fish, grows frequently to the length of five or six feet, continu- ing to grow as long as it lives, and has been known to attain the length of twenty feet. Those brought to the London market commonly measure from four to eight feet, and sometimes weigh nearly 300 pounds. Notwithstanding its size, it is said to be of a mild character, feeding on small fish and worms. It is extremely fertile, one fish containing 300,000 eggs. 2195. It belongs to the class of fishes whose bones are entirely cartilaginous, and its flesh is much esteemed, being delicate, firm, and white as veal, which indeed it resembles so much, that slices of sturgeon dressed in the manner of veal cutlets are scarcely to be distinguished from them, but by a superadded flavour, somewhat like that of the scallop shell-fish. Sturgeon pies are much like meat pies; the flesh is sometimes roasted on a spit, like meat, and is excellent stewed with gravy, and made into soup. Sturgeon is rare in the London market, where it sells for \s. or Is. Gd. per pound. Its season is the winter and spring. As it can seldom be had fresh with us, it is brought pickled from the Baltic and North America ; those cured at Pillau are the best. The sturgeon was in high repute among the Greeks and Romans, and Pliny states that it was brought to table with great pomp, accompanied with music, and ornamented with garlands of flowers. 2196. Caviare is a favourite food of the Russians, prepared from the hard roes of the sturgeon chiefly ; the roe is cleaned from the strings and fibres, steeped in strong brine, or salt pickle. It is then dried, and pressed into casks or tubs, and formed into small cakes about an inch thick, and three or four inches in breadth. The red caviare is salted and smoked. The fishery of the sturgeon, for this purpose, is extremely profitable to those engaged in it, and likewise to the government of Russia. Caviare is used by that nation as an article of food in the long Lent of the Greek church, and on the fast days, which they observe with great strictness: it is exported for the same purpose to Italy and Ger-