532 BEVERAGES USED IN THE inilTISII ISLES. Book VIII. The water rises by the capillary attraction of the threads, and continues to run over into a vessel placed below, leaving the impurities behind. 2983. A71 excellent filtering apparatus of stoneware was made and generally sold by John Hawkins, formerly of Titchfield Street, London, from which most of those now seen in the shops are copied with slight variations. a, fig. 533., is the vessel into which the foul water is put: it comes through the cock b, and drops into the projecting lip of another vessel, c, which has a moveable partition pierced with numerous small holes ; on this partition is placed a piece of woollen cloth, or a slice of sponge, to stop the greatest quantity of the im- purities in the water ; after that it passes through the holes into the lower part, which contains charcoal bruised small. This vessel has in the bottom several smaU holes which permit the water to pass into a third vessel, d, from which the filtered water is drawn by a cock. These filters answered the purpose completely, and have the advantage that all the parts could be easily got at, and therefore they were easily kept in order. 2984. A larger filter, also by Mr. Hawkins, was made in the following manner : — B,fig. 534., is a cask charred withinside, and having a partition in the middle, a, which does not reach quite to the bottom. In the lower part of the cask is put sand and charcoal, or a stratum of charcoal alone, about four inches deep, the upper part of the charcoal in pieces about the size of walnuts, the rest coarsely powdered ; this is covered with perforated covers to permit the water to pass through, but to keep the charcoal from mixing with it. The water to be filtered is poured into the division a ; it then passes downwards through the charcoal in the lower part, and rises through the perforated cover in the other di- vision, from which it is drawn off by a cock. The division with the filtered water has an inside cover, b, besides the cover over the whole, to prevent any one by mistake pouring foul 1^, 534. water into the wrong division. 2985. A, fig. 535., represents a filtering apparatus made of stone-!«arc, which is at present A very generally sold in the shops in London; it contains two partitions which are fixed in with cement. The upper one con- tains a cavity in the centre pierced with holes; and the lower one is also pierced in a similar manner. Before they are ce- mented, sand and charcoal is put between the partitions, through which the water put in at the top filters into the lower division, b, after first passing through the sponge to detain the coarsest part of the impurities. The filtered water is drawn oflF by a cock. An inconvenience attends this arrangement, that the charcoal and sand cannot be easily got at to be renewed, on account of the ce- ment ; the partitions should be got out when required by the pos- sessor. These filters, though good, have no peculiar superiority Fig. 635. over others where the filtering materials are not so concealed. 2986. IVater is also filtered by making it pass through a particular kind of porous stones, fig. Sae!, called filtering stones, which are hollowed out for the purpose in the form of a basin. The fluid percolates through the minute pores of the stones, which are too small to suffer the impurities to pass, and it appears on the outside in clear drops, which are received into a proper vessel. These filtering stones effect the intended purpose, but the filtration proceeds very .slowly, drop by drop, and the stones soon clog up, and are then