Book III. 108 ON VENTILATION. companion and skylight so close, that they hud, during the night, exhausted the whole of the vital air necessary for respiration. Medical aid was procured." Captain Ganson, however, it appears, did not recover, but died convulsed on the following morning. A similar instance is stated by the same author to have occurred on board a French ship in the harbour of Jersy, where the captain and mate lost their lives by suffocation, in conse- quence of sleeping in a very small cabin, the door of which was so carefully shut, that any access of fresh air was completely prevented ; and accidents such as these are probably more frequent than is generally supposed. But instances so fatal seldom occur, because hoVever confined apartments may be, there are few where there are not some openings or cracks through which the air is changed in some degree. The most dreadful example on record of the destructive consequence of an inadequate supply of atmospherical air, exists in the horrible fate of 146 Englishmen, who, in 1756, were imprisoned in a small room only 18 feet square, called the black hole of Calcutta. There were only two very small windows in this place, and as both were on the same side, ventilation was impossible. Soon after the door was closed, they began to experience heat accompanied by intense thirst; within a short time many became delirious, and at the end of six hours, 96 were relieved by death from their torments. In the morning only twenty-three were foimd alive, reduced to the last extremity, and of these a few only ultimately survived. 484. It must be obvious that the greater the number of persons who assemble in any apart- ment, the more quickly they must consume the oxygen of the air contained in it; and if the supply of fresh air be not equal to the consumption, it must be continually more and more deteriorated, until at last it becomes highly deleterious. In such places, the candles and lamps also contribute to destroy the vital portion of the air ; for we have shown that there is a very strong analogy between combustion and respiration, in each case oxygen being consumed, and carbonic acid given out. In small and confined rooms, therefore, many lamps or candles are particularly injurious and unhealthy. 485. A very simple experiment will show that lights consume the oxygenous or vital part of the air. Put some water into a dish, and having fixed a short taper upon a flat piece of cork or wood, light it and set it to swim upon the water, then invert a tall bell-glass over the taper. At first the light will burn perifectly well; but, by degrees, it will soon grow dim, and at last will go out, having consumed aJl the oxygen, and the air remaining in the jar being only nitrogen. The air wiU not appear at first to be diminished, because what remains, being expanded by the heat, it occupies as much space as before : but when the air cools and contracts, the water will rise up in the glass, and show how much air has been de- stroyed by the combustion. If the bell-glass is so contrived that another lighted taper could be introduced into the remaining air, the latter would be found incapable of supporting the flame. From a variety of chemical experiments, which cannot be detailed in this place, it is easy to demonstrate, that it is the oxygen alone, and not the nitrogen, which is consumed by the flame: an animal, introduced into the residual air, will die immediately. 486. It is a beautiful provision of nature, that,-even without our being aware of it, we are prevented from immediately inhaling again the impure and poisonous air which we throw out in breathing. When it issues from the chest, being heated nearly to the temperature of the body, or 98°, it .is dilated, and consequently rendered specifically lighter than the surrounding atmosphere : hence it instantly ascends, as wood from the bottom of water; and before the next inspiration, it is removed out of the way, giving place to purer air. But this natural ventilation, as it may be called, is complete only while we are in the open air : when we are shut up in an apartment, the vitiated air rises, but it is stopped at the ceiling, and preserves its lofty situation only so long as its elevated temperature remains; when it has gradually given out its surplus heat to the walls of the room, it becomes of the same density as the rest of the air, mingles with it, and thus descends to our level, where we are liable to inhale a part of it again, together with the purer portion. From this it is evident, the upper part of a room, next the ceiling, is tho place where, in general, the worst air is collected, and of course that tliis is the place for letting it out: but it must be recollected that no air can make its escape from the room, except an equal quantity enter to supply its place; and it follows, that there should be a contrivance somewhere for the admission of fresh air, and the lower part of a room is the proper situation for this purpose. This last observation will be re-considered when ■we describe the practical methods to be adopted in ventilation. ' 487. It is evident also from what we have said, that in crowded rooms, if no judicious means are employed for getting rid of the bad, and the introduction of good, air, that what has been exhaled by one person will be breathed by another, the poisonous air which each person gives out mingling with the mass, and vitiating it Such an atmosphere, consisting of good and bad air mixed together, may not be immediately dangerous, although extremely unhealthy : the degree of its insalubrity must depend upon the number of persons collected together, and the more or less confined nature of the i)lace. 488. It is calculated, that each person consumes, on an average, five cubic feet of air in an hour, or, in other words, deprives oxygen of such a quantity of atmospheric air. If a hundred