BEVERAGES USED IN THE IJIUTISII ISLES. Book VIII. not be boiled, for in that case the carbonic acid would be driven off, and the iron would fall down, and would not be affected by the test. Prussiate of potusli in the same case will give a blue precipitate like prussian blue. If this test give the same coloured pre- cipitates after the water has been boiled, then the iron is not in the state of a carbonate- but is, most probably, a sulphate of iron. If it be required to determine whether the salt be a sulphate, add muriate or nitrate of barytes to some of the water, and if it be a sul- phate, but not otherwise, a precipitate will appear. 3007. Sulphuretted hydrogen is easily known in water by its disagreeable smell like that of rotten eggs, or by blackening a silver spoon put into it. 3008. Carbonic acid in a free state may be conjectured by the brisk sparkling appear- ance of the water, and this being destroyed by boiling; but it is accurately ascertained by the water reddening litmus paper, and precipitating barytes water before boiling, but not after it is boiled. 3009. Vegetable or animal viatter may be detected by adding sulphuric acid and evapor- ating the water : if such matter be present the water will become blackened. 3010. The above are the substances most usually found in water; others, which are more rare, require considerable knowledge of practical chemistry to apply the tests properly. 3011. From all this we may perceive the necessity of having a chemical analysis made of water about which we have any doubt, and which is to be used for any important purpose, as .in the case of water from newly sunk wells. But this, as we have already observed, can only be effected by the skilful practical chemist. Sect. XIII. ON TANKS AND CISTERNS FOR PRESERVING WATER. 3012. In some countries where springs are scarce, and where it rains only periodically, great care is bestowed on reservoirs or cisterns erected to preserve water. Anciently there were cisterns all over the country in Palestine; these are frequently referred to in Scripture, and many of large dimensions are still to be seen. As the cities were for the most part built upon hills or high ground, and the rains fell in India at two seasons of the year only, in spring and autumn, people were obliged to keep water in cisterns in the country for the use of their cattle, and in cities for the convenience of the inhabitants. Ancient subterranean cisterns are described as still to be seen at Constantinople, the vaults of which are supported by several hundred pillars. In modern times, before the discovery of such excellent cements as we are now possessed of, there was considerable difficulty in building cisterns to hold water : at present, from the perfection of our Roman cement, this has become comparatively easy. Bricks laid in Roman cement, and covered on the inside with a coating of that material, form a wall perfectly tight, and impervious to water. 3013. Hie choice of a material for reservoirs in which water is to be preserved for drink or culinary purposes is extremely important. The material which has long been, and is still, generally employed for common cisterns is lead. 3014. The deleterious effects of lead dissolved by various substances and taken into the stomach is well known; but it is necessary to adduce proofs of it in this place. Water absolutely pure has no action on this metal if air be excluded; but if air be admitted its action is very sensible. In the atmosphere there is always present a certain proportion of carbonic acid, and most waters likewise contain a minute quantity'. The carbonic acid acts upon lead and converts it into carbonate of lead, which is a poison. A white line may generally be seen at the surface of water preserved long in leaden cisterns, where the metal touches the water, and this is owing to a deposition of carbonate of lead, fprmed at the expense of the metal. Waters differ much in the power of dissolving lead. Some act upon it with great rapidity, as is evinced by the corrosion of the cisterns and pipes. But the consequence of this is not generally appreciated. Dr. Lamb, who has paid much attention to this subject, and to whom we are indebted for many valuable facts, states an instance where the proprietor of a well ordered his plumber to make the lead of a pump twice as thick as what is usually employed for such a purpose, in consequence of his observing that it was frequently corroded and required constant repairs, not considering that the lead thus quickly dissolved was poisoning his water. Nothing is more certain than that lead cisterns and pipes become leaky from the chemical action of the water upon them, and it must be equally obvious that in all such cases the water is contaminated with a portion of active poison. This action of water on lead is increased frequently by the circumstance of vegetable matter, such as leaves, falling into the cistern ; this will impart to the water an additional solvent power, which points out the propriety of at least keeping cisterns extremely clean where lead happens to be the material employed.