Book VII. ON FOOD. 488 of the late varieties introduced by the Horticultural Society are from France and Flanders. The pear is a hardy tree, and a longer liver even than the apple; in a dry soil it exists for centuries. It will grow in almost any soil, and flourishes perfectly in our hedges. 2668. Eating pears were formerly divided into two sorts, viz.—proud pears, which would not keep, and woodens, so called from their property of keeping. Pears, however, have been wonderfully improved as a table fruit within the last twenty or thirty years, through French and Flemish botanists and horticulturists, by whose experiments our own gar- deners have largely profited. The best sorts are delicious, and are preferred to the apple at the dessert. They should have a rich aromatic flavour, and be either of the melting kind (beurr^, butter pears), or be firm and crisp like the winter berganiots. 2669. Above 1.^0 varieties of pears are enumerated in late catalogues, all diflfering from each other in tlieir qualities, time of ripening, &c. For summer pears, some of the best are the Muscadelle, Windsor, Jargonelle, Bonehrctein, &c. For winter, the St. Germain, Wilding, Rousselet, Bergamot, &c. For the kitchen, the Swan's egg, Spanish red wooden, Black Worcester, &c. Perhaps one of the most delicious sorts in Europe is that known throughout the north of Spain as the Pera de Mantiga, or " Butter pear," and some of a very superior kind are grown in Guernsey and Jersey. The species grown in the neighbourliood of Guimaraens, in the north of Portugal, is equally celebrated. 2670. Though perfectly wholesome when ripe, the pear is not so when green; but in this State it is fit for stewing. The best kitchen pears for baking are rather austere than sweet: cooking converts part of the acid into sugar. They may be preserved in the same ■way as apples ; but they are also pared and dried in an oven, by which means they ■will keep for years : this mode is much practised in France. This fruit is likewise much employed for making perry, and the most austere varieties, unfit for eating, are best for this purpose. A mixture of the wild pear -with the cultivated sort is thought to make peculiarly fine liquor. 2671. We do not find any good analysis of the pear; but it is evidently not very different in its composition from the apple, in some varieties containing more sugar. SuBSECT. 3. — Quince (Pyrus cidonia, Linn.). 2672. This tree is classed by botanists -with the apple and pear, and the latter are gene-^ rally grafted on quince stocks, proving their consanguinity. It is a native of Austria, and grows ■wild on the banks of the Danube. It is said to have been introduced here from the Isle of Candia, and grows easily in our hedges, but is not much used, the fruit in its raw state having a peculiar disagreeable smell and an austere taste. It is sometimes employed to give a flavour to apples in pies and tarts, and is occasionally made into a marmalade, which is much used in the south of France, ■where the quince is extensively cultivated. The juice, as a medicine, is cooling, astringent, and stomachic. SuBSECT, ^.—Medlar (Mespilus Germanica, Linn.). 2673. This fruit, a native of the south of Europe, but long naturalised, somewhat resembles a small apple, and has a good deal of flavour, but which is seldom developed even in its ripe state on the tree. It is gathered and laid by tiU it begms to change or gro-w rotten, -when only it is fit to be eaten. Sect. III. STONE FRUITS. 2674. Stone fndts are such as have their seeds inclosed in a hard nut or shell, and this covered by a fleshy pulp. Those which are known among us belong to the natural order of amygdalecB, and consist of the peach, nectarine, apricot, plum, and cherrj'. All these contain certain principles in their kernels, from which prussic acid is developed by the action of -water, though this acid does not exist in them ready formed. Some species of this tribe in other countries are highly poisonous : the Cerasus capricida kills the goats of Nepal, which happen to eat them : and the Cerasus Virginia of North America is known to be dangerous. Notwithstanding, however, this poisonous principle in the kernels, the pulp of our fruits of this kind are perfectly harmless. SuBSECT. 1.—Peach and Nectarine (Amygdalus Persica, Linn.). 2675. These, -which are among the most delicious of our fruits, are considered as varieties of the same species produced by cultivation. The latter is characterised by a very delicate down, while the foi-mer is smooth: but as a proof of their identity as to species, trees have borne peaches in one part and nectarines in another ; and even a single fruit