Chap. I. 539 WATER, In some parts of the kingJom, as on the Yorkshire wolds, there is no water for cattle or sheep, except what is collected from rain, and preserved in ponds constructed for this |)nrpose; anil tlie3'are fmnid to be extremely useful in sheep walks. The method employed tlicrc appears to answer the purpose perfectly, and is as fol- lows : — The ponds are made circular, and about forty and fifty I'cet in diameter, and the excavation is not made above five feet deep in the centre. After the excavation has been cleared out, a layer of clay, well tern, pered with a little water, is laid over the whole of the bottom, and trodden down and beat with beetles till it form a compact body of about the thickness of a foot. Upon this a layer of quicklime, of an inch or upwards in thickness, is uniformly spread. Over this is put another layer ol clay, similar to the last, and trodden down in the same manner. To prevent this claj' from being injured by the treading of the cattle, the whole is covered with a layer of coarse gravel or small stones of such a thickness tliat the feet of the cattle will not break through it. Some pave the part of the margin by which the cattle enter, which is a good practice, as it is important tliat the water should be as clean as possible. The use of the layer of lime does not appear to be thoroughly imderstood; whether it unites with the clay, forming a kind of hard cement, or whether it acts in preventing the worms from boring through the clay, which they are known to do where clay alone is used, and thus let out the water: but it is observed, that this mo<le of construction answers better than where lime is not employed ; an improved method of executing this part is to make a mortar by mixing the lime with sand ; but it adds a little to the expense. Though tough clay is best, yet it does not appear to be absolutely essential; and any earth, sufficiently tenacious to bear beating into a solid compact body, will answer the purpose, though not so well. Paving the whole bottom of the pond will, where the expense and trouble is not an object, be the most complete method, 3026. JV/icn a pond is lo he viade upon the slope of a hill the form may be a semicircle, as in the ground plan, n, Jig, bil., or the segment of a circle. The upper side must be steep, and the lower one of a proper slope for cattle, the bottom being formed out of the materials dug from the hill, as is shown in the section b. One pond may be made to supply two or more fields, by placing it so that the boundaries of the fields may pass through the pond. Trees should not be planted round ponds or open reservoirs of water, notwithstanding they shade the water from the heat of the sun, and tlie agreeable effect which they produce, for the leaves which fall into the water, by their decomposition, injure the quality of the water; and such ponds should be frequently raked and kept from aquatic plants, particularly those miuute conferva;, like green slime, which are very apt to collect in standing water. One great use of paving the whole bottoms of ponds is the facility which this affords of keeping them clean. 3027. In cases where a pond is supplied by water which rutts down sloping ground, a great deal of impu- rities is frequently brought along with it, which would render the pond muddy, besides tending to fill it up. It would then be proper to admit the water into another reservoir previous to its entering that from which it is to be used, in order that it may first deposit all its sediment; and the latter will be found extremely useful as manure. The communication may be made by a pipe laid at the surface of the first reservoir, and having its mouth covered with a grating or a plate pierced with holes. As the health of cattle, as well as that of human beings, must defend in a considerable degree upon the salubrity of the water whicli they drink, it would appear proper that more care should be taken to keep the water of ponds in a clean state than is gene- rally bestowed ; and a drinking fountain, raised a little from the ground, formed of stone, and kept quite free from weeds, into which the water might flow, filtered from the pond, would not be very difficult to execute, upon the principles which have been explained above, and might be a most agreeable object in pasture ground. This latter idea is the more important, since the loose stones with which ponds are covered, as described above, are frequently forced deep into the clay by the feet of the cattle, and the pond is thereby materially injured; besides, sheep are often disgusted when the water is thus rendered muddy, and refuse to drink it It is of the greatest consequence that sheep and cattle should be supplied with pure water, particularly during the heat of the summer months. For this purpose, light running water is to he preferred, where it can be obtained ; or, if possible, well water in troughs or shallow tubs, which is very requisite when sheep are confineil in folds; but on no account should they be allowed to drink water that has been long stagnant, or in a tainted state, as it must be when it contains any dung. On the Continent, the watering of sheep is regarded as a circumstance of the greatest moment. At the best establishments in Sweden and France, they are daily watered with running water, or with that obtained from lakes or springs, which is conducted to them by means of pipes into troughs, out of which the animals drink at pleasure, and consequently take less water at each time, which is favourable to their health. 3028. In situations where there are natural inequalities of level, it will be easy to construct the pond itself higher than the drinking place, into which it is to be conveyed by a pipe; but where the place is perfectly flat, and the reservoir is to be filled with water collected only from rain, it may be found best, instead of sinking a pond in the earth, to erect extensive low sheds covered by roofs proper for collecting rain water, which might be discharged into the reservoir on the ground ; and it has been already shown that any required quantity may be collected by means of roofs. In the best farmeries, horses are now more frequently supplied with water, and washed by means of troughs of clean water in the stables, tlian driven into the pond as formerly. 3029. The water collected in draining land may, in some cases, be rendered available for some purposes of domestic economy, by conducting it to tanks or other places, where it may first be depurated by deposition, and afterwards, if necessary, by filtration. In this case, as much of the drain as possible should be made of drain tiles, or eiirthenware pipes. Water so collected has been employed in turning mills, and performing other work. Sect. XIV. ON PIPES FOR CONVEYING WATER. 3030. Pipes for the conveyance of ivater are made of wood, iron, copper, stone, or pottery. 3031. Wooden pipes are the least expensive at first, and are easily made ; they are best bored in trees of the proper size, and then the bark being left on preserves them. If small, the passage may be bored by a long auger, turned round by one or two men ; but where the pipes are large, and the demand is great, as for supplying towns, machines are employed to bore them. The great objections to wooden pipes are, their want of strength to resist a great pressure of water, and their liability to decay. They are usually made of elm or alder ; oak would be preferable, if it were not too expensive. The lengths of