BllEWING. 593 Chap. III. inoal and beans; but besides these, it is said that there were in it also infusions of fir and birch tops, marjoram, penny royal, wild thyme, elder flowers, seeds of cardamom, and barberries,—so that it appears to have been analogous to the herb ales of our ancestors. In the excise laws, mention is made of a similar muvme having been made formerly in Ireland. 3347. The national drink and the ordintiry household beverage of Russia is the far-famed gunss, which is made by fermenting an infusion of barley malt, rye malt, and rye flour that has been roasted in iron pans. It is extremely popular from the emperor to the peasant; but, except when flavoured with fruit, it is •' sour, B-eak, watery,aad unpalatable." Of this, George Jubervill, one of our poets in Queen Elizabeth's time, says : " Such liquors as they have, and as the country gives. The one called kuas, whereby the Russie lives, Small ware, water-like, but poor in taste." I Sect. VII. TAKIOtrS KINDS OF CHEAP BEER BLADE OF OTHER INGREDIENTS BESIDES MAIT AND HOPS. 3348. Beer may be made ivithout barley. Not only can any farinaceous grain be con- verted into malt by the process of germination already described under " Malting ; " but any substances containing either starch or sugar may be made to afford beer with the addition of hops, or some similar bitter substance containing the astringent and bitter principles. The various substances containing these constituents would no doubt require each a peculiar management; but it is important to know what substitutes may be used in various countries, or under peculiar circumstances. To understand this, we should keep in mind what has been stated above, that the only use of malting is to convert the starch of the grain into sugar, and thus to produce a cheap kind of it. Whenever we have starch, it is possible to produce sugar by some process or other ; and whenever we have sugar, we can ferment it into spirit or alcohol. The chief peculiarity of ale and beer is that, in addition to the spirit, they are flavoured with an aroma or essential oil from the hop, and likewise with an astringent bitter from the same plant, which is sup- posed to assist its preservation or keeping ; and though we might not be able to produce from other materials a beer exactly like that from malt and hops, barley, or some farina- ceous grain, yet beverages nearly analogous may be made with any material containing sugar, and any bitter nearly resembling hops. Many such beers have been made, and found very agreeable and useful. We shall give examples of them. 3349. Sugar ale and ifej-.—Cane, or common sugar, is somewhat different from the sugar of malt; but it may be fermented equally well into a beverage which some have even preferred to malt liquor. One great advantage of this beer is, that the process of making it is much more simple, and more easily performed, no malting or mashing being necessary ; the apparatus is also much less complicated. To make ale, procure a ten gallon cask, set it on its bottom, and fit the head in. Put a cock iuto the side, one inch above the bottom, and make a hole in the head, and close it with a bottle cork. Put a pound and a half of hops into any con- venient vessel, and pour on them eleven gallons of boiling water : or if there be a copper large enough, boil the hops in the water for five minutes ; strain off the hops, and add fourteen pounds of sugar to the strained liquor ; mix one pint of good yeast with this, and put the whole into the cask through the hole in the top ; it will soon ferment, and the yeast will appear through the hole in the head; as this works out, let it fall back again into the hole. It will require, in summer, about three weeks or more to complete the fermentation, and as this slackens towards the latter part, tliecork should, for the most part, be kept in the hole, to prevent the access of too much air, which might be apt to occasion sourness ; but the cork should now and then be removed, to give vent to the fixed air that collects. When the fermentation has stopped, and the sweet taste of the sugar is barely perceptible, the cork must be driven in tight, and in four days the beer will be fit for draught or for bottling. Care must be taken to ferment sufficiently, but not so long as that the liquor becomes flat, as it would then soon sour. White sugar will afford a liquor of the purest flavour and palest colour, but brown sugar will answer. If a deeper brown colour be wanted, which many would think a disadvantage, it may be given by burnt sugar. The drink will fine itself, and the grounds will settle in the space below the cock, for which purpose it will be best to have room enough to prevent the beer from drawing off foul. Mr. Donovan describes this beer in terras of high praise. He states that " there is a purity of taste belong- ing to it quite different from the indescribable jumble of tastes so perceptible in common ales, and a light sharpness combined with tenuity, which is much more agreeable than the glutinous or mucilaginous softness of even the best ales. But it has one advantage which places it above all competition, and tliat is, its lightness on the stomach ; this, when compared with the sickly heaviness of malt ale, is really remarkable. The whiter the sugar, the lighter the ale will be ; .ind age greatly conduces to the same end, provided that the drink is sound, which is best ensured by bottling." It is scarcely necessary to observe that the strength may be in- creased, or diminished to that of table ale, by using more or less of the sugar and liops. It is reckoned that ten pounds of Muscovado sugar are equal to a bushel of malt. 3350. Beer from malt and potatoes We are told by M. Dubnnifaut that he made a beer as follows ; which, when bottled, very much resembled the brisk beer so much used in Paris. Potatoes were grated to a pulp ; this was well mixed with boiling water, and some ground barley malt was added. The wort being drawn off after mashing, it was hopped in the usual way ; yeast was added, and the wliole fermented. The jiroportions are not mentioned, but any one acquainted with brewing would find out how to supply this. Here the starch of the potatoes is converted into sugar in the mashing through the means of the malt, in the same manner as in the ca.se of raw barley. a^i.Tl. Ikerfrom Ireaele alone.—Get H lbs. of treacle and G oz. of hops ; boil them together for two hours in II gallons of water ; when cooled sufficiently, add a proper quantity of yeast j let it work in a tub covered up for 10 hours ; when the working Is over, put it into a cask ; let it work there, as usual, for two or tliree days ; then bung it down, or pour it from the lees, and bottle it. The beer will be fit to drink in a week, and be a» strong as porter. It will cost oidy \\d. per qu-irt. If not sulHciently fermented, it will be apt to be too sweet. The great defect in treacle beer arises from the want of mucilaginous matter in proportion to thn naccharinc part of the treacle. A better kinil is made from treacle and barley. A little ginger may be added, If wished. If required to be of the strength of table beer only, use more water in pro|)ortion to the other ingredients. A very wholesome and palatable ale has been made by using mangel inurxel instiad of malt. After Q q