347 HOUSEHOLD CLEANING. :hap. ir. ; hey require netting iDut security from moisture, together with the daily rubbing with oft wash-leather. Linen is an improper material for rubbing polished steel, as it is apt o be damp. Even the moisture of the hand, if impressed upon steel, is apt to cause spots of rust, if not rubbed off in time with a drj' leather. Once become rusty, steel is sc.ircely recoverable under the housemaid's hands, nor can the steel polisher ■ntirelv restore the even polished surface. This fact should be impressed on the memory of housemaids, liat tliey may not neglect to .apply the leather each day tn all the poUsl]ed steel articles under their charge, . .nd to rub carefully aw.ay all dull spots, which are the first indications of rust. The leatlier kept for this mrpose should be 'frequently aired before the fire, and occasionally a little dried pull;/ ^om/c)- (which may be louudn .at oil shops), tied in a muslin bag, may be dusted over the steel and then rubbed oft'willi the leather; •ut, in truth, good rubbing with the leather only is the best means of keeping steelwork bright and uu- 1 potted. l(i.51. JfArajfcc-iroiw or other fine steel work is not likely to be wanted for some weeks or months, and Muring which period a housemaid may be away with the famdy she is serving, it is desirable to rub them over jvith a little Florence oil: when it is requisite to remove the oil from the steel work, a little dry whiting may )e dusted over it, and the whole rubbed clean off with leather. Fire-irons in summer should he tied up in :,';reen baize bags, and hung up near the kitchen fire, or in any other office in which there is usually a fire. 1652. Bright iron bars of grates necessarily require a different mode of cleaning from iihat employed for polished steel; they are usually stained with the flame, and browned with hhe moisture or bitumen from the coal. To remove this, many plans are in use among Housemaids: a good one is to cover the bars with a little sweet oil, which is suffered to I'emain on while the housemaid cleans away the cinders from the grate, and with her uroper brush sweeps down all lodgments of soot, as high up the chimney as her brush 0 vill permit. On this point it may sometimes be necessary to remind her, or the family i:nay be inconvenienced by the falling of the soot, if not by the firing of the chimney ijipon any high flame or sparks flying upwards and reaching some of these collections of sioot. This being done, and the grate cleared of ashes and cinders, the oil may be removed, and the bars polished, iither by rubbing on them with the leather a little of the smooth white ash formed by the StafTordshire coal, ■<t, where these are not used, by rubbing them either with the Bath brick dust, or with fine emery paper. 1653. Cast-iron grates and fenders are cleaned ^rtth blacklead used in difierent ways, rrhe housemaid commonly mixes a portion of blacklead with water, of a consistence -ather thicker than cream: this, after having cleared her grate of ashes, she puts on the ■■ides and back of her grate with a small brush, and afterwards, when that is dry, with a i.iard one she rubs the grate with force and briskness until the polish is brought. Black- eead need not be put on the grates more than once, or perhaps twice, a week, but each unorning the housemaid should brush her grates with the polishing brusn. 1C54. Another mode is to boil a quarter of a pound of best ivory blacklead in a pint of small beer, adding D it a bit of soap .about the size of a walnut; this mixture is laid on with a painter's brush, and afterwards K olished with the hard brush, as above directed. SuBSECT. 4. — Cleaning Brass- Work. 1655. Fenders, if of lacquered brass, or any lacquered brass ornaments, admit of very ir.ttle cleaning beyond that of rubbing with a clean leather; when the lacquer is worn iflfi^ and they look dull or greenish in appearance, the plates or ornaments may be re-lac- inuered at a trifling expense. 1656. Fenders with common brass mouldings may be cleaned, like other brass-work in a loouse, either witlx oil and rotten stone rubbed with fine dust of the Bath brick on leather, rr polished' with polishing paste. SuBSECT. 5.— Cleaning Drawing-Room Ornaments. 1657. Glass lustres require very careful dusting and rubbing with wash leather: when flashed, cold soap and water, applied with soft flannel, is best. 1658. Ormolu time-pieces, or other ornamental drawing-room articles, although usually ■TOtected from the dust by glass coverings, require occasional dusting, but which should ■ e done with a brush of feathers or silk dusters: the friction of linen, cotton, or any harsh ! ibstance, would injure them, as would also any moist application. 1659. Alabaster figures or vases can scarcely be cleaned by ordinary servants, and should ■ e, therefore, generally encased in glass, and covered over, as much as possible, with sUver lapcr bags. 1660. Looking-glasses and mirrors may be washed with a moist sponge dipped in spirits ff wine, no more of the glass being wetted at once than what may be immediately wiped flff, as damp, in altering the temperature of the glass, unsettles the backing of the tin toating, which gives it its power of reflecting objects. While wat the glass should be misted with powdered blue, or whiting tied up in a muslin bag, and then rubbed oS with .< soft linen duster or silk handkerchief. 1 1661. The gilding of pictures and mirror frames, when it is what is termed oil gilding.