106 Book III. ON VENTILATION. BOOK III. ON VENTILATION. i CHAP. I. CHEMICAi PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION. 474. Perhaps there is no subject of equal importance, the knowledge of which is less gene- rail// diffused than that of Ventilation. Though the fact is now generally admitted, that pure air is essential to health, yet in what that purity consists, and how it is to he pre- served or attained, are considerations too much neglected. We will endeavour to place this interesting subject in a clear point of view; but we must observe, that, to put in practice the best modes of ventilation, it is necessary to be familiar with its theoretical principles. 475. It is only since the modem discoveries in pneumatic chemistry, respecting the compo- sition of atmospheric air, and the changes effected in it by respiration, that rational ideas have been entertained on this subject. When mankind were in utter ignorance as to the nature of air, of the manner in which it supports life, and of the causes which destroy its salubrity, we cannot wonder that the necessity for a strict attention to ventilation was" not very obvious. Practically, indeed, to a certain extent, it was known that there was a difference between good and bad air; but, as the nature of that difference was not ascer- tained, nor in what way air becomes vitiated, it was impossible to know the means of preventing it; but now that science has developed the necessary facts, we may expect that this valuable part of domestic economy will meet with due attention. 47G. When treating on combustion, we showed that the air of our atmosphere is not, as was formerly supposed, a simple element, but that it is essentially composed of several kinds of air mixed together; viz. oxygen gas, and nitrogen gas, with a small proportion of carbonic acid gas, together with aqueous vapour. All these gases are highly important in the general economy of nature ; but our present object is to point out in what way they contribute to the support of animal life. 477. Air is essential to the existence of every living being; nor can either animal or vege- table come to life if this element be entirely excluded. In the act of breathing or respir- ation, atmospheric air is inhaled or drawn into the lungs, which process is termed inspiration. After a very short time the air is again sent out by expiration, when it is found to have been remarkably altered in its properties. The particular nature of the alteration can only be explained by reference to pneumatic chemistry. It appears that the lungs decompose the atmospheric air, and separate it into its two principal con- stituent gases ; retaining one part, the oxygen, for the support of life, and rejecting another part which is unfitted for this purpose. Since the oxygen is more particularly necessary for maintaining the vital principle, on the first discovery of the chemical con- stitution of the atmosphere, it received the name of vital air—a term now laid aside, or only occasionally employed. The fact of the chemical change in the air, by breathing it, is easily ascertained by examining it previous to its being taken into the lungs, and afterwards when given out. One hundred parts of common or atmospheric air consists of about twenty parts of oxygen gas, seventy-nine parts of nitrogen gas, and about one of carbonic acid gas. These proportions of the two first are very nearly constant in what- ever part of the world the air is examined, whether at land or at sea, in doors or out of doors : but the proportion of cai'bonic acid is variable according to the place: if it exceed one-fifth it would be fatal to the animals that breathe it. 478. The air when expelled from the lungs is found not only to have lost a considerable portion of its oxygen, but to have received a large proportion of carbonic acid gas, and likewise of aqueous vapour : the quantity of nitrogen being diminished in a small degree only. That much watery vapour is contained in the breath is familiar to every one, from the common practice of moistening substances by breathing upon them ; and that carbonic acid is given out at the same time, will appear from the following experiment Quicklime is pure lime obtained by driving off the carbonic acid by heat from car- bonate of lime : and this quicklime has a strong attraction for carbonic acid when presented to it again. Dissolve some quicklime in water by letting it remain in it for about a day ; the clear solution is called lime water. Put some lime water into a glass vessel, and having provided a small glass tube, or for want of it a straw, place the end of the tube in the water, and impel the breath through it by blowing for a little time. The water will soon begin to exhibit a milky turbidness, an effect which is to be explained in the following