FOREIGN WINES. 60!) Chap. IV. the richest in colour of all French wines, and of an exquisite flavour and perfume resem- blinij that of the raspberry. There is also a white Hermitage, which is considered as the finest white wine produced in France ; its odour is like no other wine ; its taste is rich, dry, and luscious. Of the wines grown in the Lyonnais, on the Rhone, the most noted is Cote Rotie, which bears a near resemblance to Hermitage, and is remarkable for the excel- lence of its colour, strength, and perfume. As the climate becomes warmer, near the shores of the Mediterranean, the vines grow with greater luxuriance, and many of the red wines of Languedoc and Roussillon arc extremely fine, and of great body. Much of these strong wines of the south are sent to Bordeaux to mingle with the poorer wines, to make up those for exportation. 34.35. Some of the red wines of Roussillon are nearly of the strength and flavour of those of Oporto without brandy, and have been brought to England at two-thirds of the price. A few years back some good Roussillon wine was imported and sold under the name of Masdcu : it is difficult now to get it here of the same quality ; and it is said that most of it is carried to Oporto and shipped there as port, being thus charged at double or treble the price it ought to be. 3436. It is here also that those luscious sweet wines called maicaie/ are made of Musca- dine grapes, such as those of Frontignan, Lunel, Rivesaltes, &c The latter affords, perhaps, the finest Muscadine wine known. The white wine called Chablis is grown at the village of Chablis, about two miles from Auxerre. 3437. All the vineyards between Fontainebleau and Paris are on the southern sides of the hills, which always fumish the best situations for vineyards. The Parisian wine- merchants, when they wish to have genuine wine, take care to secure it before it gets into the hands of the country merchants, who mix it with their old stock, or with the strong wines of the south, to make more Burgundy. This practice explains how almost all the inns in France pretend to have the choicest wines, notwithstanding the smallness of the quantities of each actually grown- SuBSECT. 2.— Wines of Germany, Hungary, and Switzerland. 3438. The parts of Germany where good wines are produced are more limited than those of France. Those imported into England are chiefly from the banks of the Rhine. 3439. Rhenish wines. The choicest vintages of that country are confined to a small district called the Rhingau, on the right bank of the Rhine, including a space of little more than nine miles in length and four in breadth, from Basle to Mentz. The banks of the river there present favourable soUs or exposures, being confined between high and steep banks, extremely suitable for the grapes, which are raised in terraces, and yield i a profusion of excellent wines. North of Coblentz the wines are of little comparative : note. The first of the Rhenish wines for fine flavour and absence of acidity is the Johannis- berg, produced on the south side of a hill of that name, a little below Mentz, which was 1 originally planted by the monks of the abbey of Johannisberg. The choicest of all is (called Schloss-Johannisberg, from a vineyard at the castle formerly belonging to the 1 bishop of Fulda, and now the property of Prince Metternich. Little of this comes into the I market, and its superiority to the other wines of Johannisberg is accounted for by the c care bestowed on the cultivation of the grape. But other vineyards in Johannisberg give ' wines of the first class. The produce of the Steinberger vineyard is considered by some as next In rank, and is t the property of the Grand Duke of Nassau. It is strong with much sweetness and r delicacy of flavour. It sells on the spot for eleven shillings a bottle. Rudesheim and ' Graefenhcrg are also among the first of these wines. Of second quality are those of 'Marcobrunner, Roth, Konisbuch, &c. The true Hock is so called from the vineyards of I Hockheim, a little town, not on the Rhine, but on the Mayne, a few miles from its junction ■with the former river ; but this is always classed with the Rhenish wines, being nearly of the same excellence. Indeed, not only the wines made near Hockheim receive in general the name of Hock with us, but likewise generally those of the Rhine, the Mayne, the >Nahe, and even the Moselle. 3440. The wines of the Rhine form a class different from all other wines. Some of tithe lighter kinds bear a considerable resemblance to the vins de Graves: but they are, in •-•general, drier than any French wines. They are generous, finely flavoured, and are characterised by a delicate aroma that is peculiar to them. Though they do not contain much alcohol, yet, from the completeness of their fermentation, they will keep longer (continuing to improve by age) than the potent wines of the south with double the ■ ilcoholic strength. From a peculiar tartness which they possess, it is generally thought in England that these wines are acid : and the inferior kinds, no doubt, are so to a certain R r