FURNITURE OF THE NURSERY. .HAP. XIV. 1268. Children's chairs are of various kinds, varying with their age. Fif/. 485. is a nttle chair without legs, which some use to place very young children who cannot support haemselves: it has a stuffed seat. Fig. 486. is a child's chair, called a Bergere, used when they hcgin to sit at tahle. IThere is a bar across to prevent the child's falling, and this bar should have a fastening ) prevent its getting out, which it is apt to do. The chair has also a foot-board which Jay be placed at different heights, and is placed upon a square stand to raise it to the ible. At other times the stand itself may form a table for the child to put its play- baings on. Fig. 486. Fig. 48S. Fig. 487. is a similar chair of a different pattern, and high enough to do without a tiand. Fig. 488. is a chair called an Astley Cooper's, because recommended by him; the back high, to afford a support for the child, and prevent its stooping when placed at table; laut this form is not un.versaUy approved of, and is objected to by some medical men. 1269. Child's bath. This is a large earthenware basin fixed in a stand of wood, fig. 489. \21qT Earthenware vessels of various kinds are made on purpose for the nursery, and are kept at most of the respectable shops that sell earthenvrare. They are made plain, Fig. 490. and of convenient forms. Fig. 490. is a sucking bottle, the use of which is well known. 1271. The nursery lamp, for keeping iquids warm in the night, or for warming any thing in the day when there is no fire. hi, fig. 491., is a cylinder of tin, within which a lamp placed upon a shelf that is move- able up and down by means of a slit in the tin cylinder, and a screw, d, that fixes it at any paiticular height from the vessel holding what is to be warmed and placed on the top. This vessel may be of tin, or earthenware, or porcelain, or it may be a small tea-kettle, all of which must fit exactly within the top. At e, /, there should be small apertures to let out the smoke, and hot air, otherwise the lamp will not burn ; and there must also be aper- tures below the lamp to supply air. If, instead of a tin cylinder, there is one of wire gauze, the lamp will also afford light, and yet be perfectly safe ; and it may be then made use of, on occasion, as a housemaid's safety lamp. Should a stronger heat be wanted, without smoke, the chemical Argand lamp with a copper tube may be used, which, in a few minutes, would boU water enough for one person's breakfast. The handle is not represented in the wood- Fig. 431. cut. 1272. The nursery milk-warmer, fig. 492., is a very useful apparatus, on the principle f' the balneum maria;, or water-bath. It consists of a small saucepan of tin to hold water, nad another to fit within, but not to reach to the bottom of the external saucepan. This uas a cover of the same material. This utensil effectually prevents the common accident '' burning to when anything is heated, because whatever is put into the inner vessel caa !i no hotter than boiling water, or 212°, a heat not sulRcient to burn. ' The inner vessel is sometimes made of white glazed earthenware.