CUAP. IX. FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN 501 there is no part of the tree but is employed for some useful purpose, and it is certainly one of the most valu- able gifts bestowed by Providence upon the inliabitants of tropical climates ; and yet, with respect to fruit, the cocoa nut tree is one of the least productive of the palm tribe. Anotlicr species of this class, the Seje palm bears 8000 fruits'at once ; a single spath of the date palm contains 12,000 flowers, each of which should afford one fruit; and in a third species, the Alf07t$ia Ainygdalitui, there is the enormous number of 207,000 jiowers on each spatii. 2765. The cacao nut, pronounced, improperly, cocoa, from which our chocolate is made, is a very different fruit from that just described; and, as it is not eaten as a fruit, -ne shall reserve our account of it to the description of " Cocoa, used as a Beverage," Book VIII. Chap. XII. Sdbsect. 5.—Date (Phoenix dactilifera, Linn.) 2766. This is the fruit of one of the palm tiibe, and forms a principal part of the food among the Arabs and inhabitants on the margin of the great sandy deserts in the north of Africa, -where there is scarcely any other esculent vegetable. There, this majestic monarch of the thirsty land, affording the only shade and food to be met with, is hailed by the traveller with greater pleasure than, perhaps, any tree in another situation. It shoots up a single straight stem to the height of fifty or sixty feet, and then throws out a magnificent crown of leaves, graceful and pinnated. 2767. The fruit, before it is ripe, is somewhat astringent, but when thoroughly mature it is excellent, being rich in sugar, gum, and other vegetable matter, with little acid : it is extremely agreeable and sweet, and affords wholesome nutriment. If required to be kept or transported it must be dried in the sun. The Arabs reduce dates, when dried, to a kind of meal, which they preserve for food when they undertake long journeys across the deserts, and they will subsist for a considerable time upon date bread. 2768. In Egypt an agreeable conserve is made of fresh ripe dates. They form a kind of solid paste or cake of them, by pressing them into baskets while soft, and in this state they are brought to market, and cut out in lumps, which are sold by weight for the daily food of the inhabitants. Mixed with water they also compose a refreshing drink. The wood and leaves of the date tree serve for many of the same uses to which the cocoa nut palm is applied, above mentioned. 2769. Dr. Clarke observes that a single date palm will bear upwards of a hundredweight, and sometimes between two and three hundredweight of dates in a season : they come into bearing at about from six to ten years of age, and are fruitful for upwards of two hundred years. The young shoots are good to eat, and resemble asparagus. The stem of the date tree likewise affords an inferior kind of sago ; and from its juice a fermented liquor is made. 2770. Dates are imported into Britain in a dried state from Barbary and Egypt, and, when in good condition, they are much esteemed. An inferior kind has lately become common, which are dried hard, and have little or no flavour. They should be chosen large, softish, not much wrinkled, of a reddish yellow colour on the outside, with a whitish nembrane between the flesh and the stone. ScTBSECT. 6.—Cashew Nut (^Anacardium Occidentale, Linn.) 2771. This is a tropical production. The nut (fig. 517.), which a good deal resembles the walnut, grows at the end of the fleshy, pea-shaped receptacle called the apple. It has an agreeable sub-acid taste, and may be fermented into a kind of wine. The juice is also much used in the West Indies for making punch and other beverages. 2772. The eatable kernel is contained within two shells, and between these shells there is a thick rust-coloured liquor, ex- tremely inflammable, and so caustic that it will blister the skin: this is used as an indelible marking ink for linen. The kernel is of a very fine flavour, preferable to the walnut, and employed in puddings and many other compositions of the cook, abounding in a delicious milky juice when fresh, and may be eaten raw, roasted or pickled. Some also grind it with cacao in making chocolate, the flavour of which it is said to improve. 2773. The broken nuts are used for steeping in old Madeira wines to improve their flavour. The acrid inflammable oil of the shell should be burned out before the nut is ■ eaten ; for if incautiously cracked by the hands or teeth, the caustic oil will blister the lips, and excoriate the skin where it touches. It is said that the milky juice of the tree itself, obtained by tapping or incision, forms a black marking ink for linen that cannot be washed out. The nuts are eaten abundantly by the negroes in Brazil. SuDSECT. 7—Pistachio Nuts (Pisiachia vera). 2774. These nuts are brought to us from Sicily and Syria, where they grow upon a kind of turpentine tree. They %re oblong and pointed, about the size and shape of a Kk 3