iKAP. III. 769 THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. 14393 Tacca. — This is tiie root of a fJant of that name, which, when mashed and prepared, affords food to r le natives of the South Sea Islands, and the Malays. The roots are something like yams, but in their jatural state are bitter and acrid ; they are rasped very fine, and steeped in several waters. Tlie farinaceous latter thus prepared is both palatable and nutritious, and is made into calies and loaves which some prefer 1 sago bread. The leaf-stiUks boiled are used as food in China. 14394. Bread nut (,Brosinium J/icaslrum). — These nuts abound with farinaceous matter, together with riuch gummy substance ; they form a very nutritious food, and are eaten by the negroes boiled or roasted with :jeat instead of bread. . ^ j , „ ' 4395. The celebrated Lotus, the Zixyphus Lotus, is eaten in Barbary and other parts of Africa, and the foUow- npg account of it occurs in " Burnett's Outlines of Botany." " Dr. Shaw says this fruit is common in the I'eserts and other parts of Barbary, and is still in great repute and sold in the markets all over the southern 1 istricts and cattle as well as men are fed upon it. Park states, that he found the lotus abundant in all the ountrie's of Africa he traversed, but in the greatest plenty in the kingdoms of Kaarta, Ludamar, and the I orthern parts of Bambara. The natives, he says, convert the fruit into a sort of bread, by exposing it some ays to the sun, and afterwards pounding it gently in a mortar, until the farinaceous part is separated from • ne stone ; this meal is then mixed with a little water, and made into cakes, which, when dried in the sun, •esemble in colour and flavour the sweetest gingerbread. The stones are afterwards put into a vessel of I 'ater, and shaken about, so as to separate all the farina that adheres to them. An agreeable taste is thus I 'iven to the liquid, which, by the addition of a little pounded millet, is made into a kind of gruel called/ondt, I nd this for several months in the year forms the common breakfast of the majority of the people in many ^^arts of Ludamar. The fruit, when dried, is laid by for winter use; a sort of wine is also made from it by xxpression and mixing the juice with water ; it is a pleasant drink, but will not keep many days. The people i!;ho lived upon the lotus were denominated Lothophagi in the time of Homer." 4396. Arracacha \ farinaceous root about the size of a cow's horn, which grows abundantly on the plains '! f Bagota, and which has lately been brought to England. A few which are planted near Plymouth are said u thrive well, and may prove in time a valuable addition to our farinaceous vegetables. 4397. Acorn bread. Take ripe acorns, deprive them of their skins, and beat them into a paste; steep hem in water for a night, and then press them dry, which will take out their astringent quality; then dry the nass, and reduce it to powder to be kept as flour or meal when wanted. Form this into dough, knead it, and nake it into thin cakes, which may be baked on an iron plate, or the embers. This has been used, but we iannot recommend it. 4398. The whole iif the bran may be used in bread made of wheat. In the Reports for bettering the Condition iif the Poor, we find an account by Sir Thomas Bernard of the use of bran in bread, which was recommended iin a time of scarcity : — " Take seven pounds of bran and pollard, and fourteen quarts of water; boil the whole ■ery gently over a slow fire ; stir it frequently to prevent burning. After two hours' boiling, it will acquire the onsistence of a custard pudding; then put it into a cloth, and twist it till the liquor is squeezed out. Mix a jjuart of this with three pints of yeast, and set the sponge for twenty-eight pounds of flour. The bran .and pollard, i^hich, when the liquor has been squeezed out, is above four times its original weight before it was boiled, is then o be set near the fire, in order that it may be kept warm. In about two hours the sponge will have sufticiently ■isen, upon which the bran and pollard (then lukewarm, but not hot, and into which is to be sprinkled about ■ lalf a pound of salt) should be mixed with flour, and the whole knea!ded up very well together, with a quart if the bran liquor, and it should then be baked for two hours and a quarter in a common oven. The produce, »reighed when cold, will be half as much again as the same quantity of flour would produce in the common ivay, without the addition of bran. Most of the objections to the use of bran appear to be founded on a nresumption, that no mode of preparation will make any difference in the degree of nutriment to be derived rom it as a food. Though the subject is yet but little understood, we have gone far enough to ascertain . he fact, that in most kinds of grain some increase of the ordinary nutritive power may be produced by cull- lary process ; the very making of bread aflbrds an example of this increase. In rice it is very great; and in jar'ley meal, particularly when used in soup, its increased power of nutriment may be extended to a sur- -vrising degree, as it is now well known that rice, when increased by water to a solid substance of five times .-ts original weight, or, by the adtlition of milk, to eight times what it originally weighed, is converted from a lard indigestible grain into a wholesome nourishing food." 4399. The fibrous part of potatoes, left after the starch has been separated, is stated by Sir John Sinclair to >ie not only a valuable article of food for horses and cattle, but th.it it may be advantageously employed in nread upon occasion. Mr. Jefcoat of Gateshead, near Newcastle-upon-Tyne, has proved that 21 lbs. of • vheaten flour, kneaded with 12 lbs. of the fibre of potatoes, will produce, when well baked, 38 lbs. 8 oz. of fwxcellent bread, which, allowing that a stone of flour produces at the rate of 18 lbs. of bread, is an increase of U IJ lbs. of bread from 12 lbs. of fibre. His mode of preparing the fibre is as follows : — After washing it in ;>wo waters, he places it for about an hour upon a sieve to drain ; then he adds, without its being boiled, the u.lsual quantity of yeast; and after it has stood for about an hour, he works in the 21 lbs. of wlieaten flour, ll.t requires very little addition of w.ater, but rather time to rise, prepar.itory to its being placed in the oven, rrhe bread thus prepared continues equally good for several days. This potato fibre may also be used with Parley or oatmeal, and is an excellent ingredient in a pudding, with milk and butter, and either with or with- wut eggs, and other ingredients. 4400. Lichen Islandicus, or Iceland moss. The lichens form a remarkable class of pblants that live in the most barren situations in the most northern parts of the world, •where nature refuses any description of corn ; growing even on bare rocks. They have MO roots, but adhere by a kind of claws, and are nourished by absorption from the atmo- spphere. The Lichen Islandicus, so named from existing in vast abundance in Iceland, on tkhe north-west coast of which scarcely any other vegetable is to be seen, is now called by ^botanists Cetraria islandicus, and had formerly received the name of Rein-deer moss as supplying the only food which these animals can procure in the winter season. The aippellation raoss is improper, as it is really a lichen. Notwithstanding its mode of growth, it is an extremely nutritious substance, as may be ««een from the following analysis by Berzelius : — Starch, 44-6 ; lignin, 36-6 ; green wax, :7'0; bitter principle, 3-6; acidulous tartrate of potash and lime, 3 0; extractive, 1-9; (traces of gallic acid. With the Icelanders it constitutes a very important article of laliraent, and is collected by them during the summer months. The lichen has an outer -skin, covering a green resinous substance; and the remainder of the plant consists chiefly "of fecula or a kind of gummy soluble matter, and of a fibrous matter, on which water does mot act. The plant has a natural bitterness and astringcncy; and, to take this off, it is scalded two or three times with boiling water, which causes the skin to crack, swell, and ; peel o£F. It is then steeped for an hour or two in cold water to extract the bitter principle, land boiled for an hour or two ir\ milk till the liquor acquires a gummy or gelatinous con- ■sistence. When cold, this is a jelly like blanc mange, and it is eaten with milk or cream, 3 D