BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 648 separated by fining : and that the acetate of lead, which is the only soluble salt may be taken in small quantities without injury. Carbonate of lead, which is poisonous is also insoluble, and falls down in wine. ' Acetate of lead, which is employed in wine, it is true, is not a violent poison • on the contrary very small quantities are employed as medicine; and it is also true that carbon- ate of lead IS the only direct virulent salt of lead : but it has been shown that the acetate is often converted into the carbonate by the action of the stomach. On this subject. Dr. A. T. Thomson observes, " These liquors, when rendered poisonous by admixture with lilharee or with sugar ol le.id, contani the poison ni the lorm of the citrate, which Is converted into the protoxide bv beinc reduced by the animal juices of the stomach ; and the attraction of this oxide for carbonic acid is so irreat that It 13 rapidly converted into tlie carljonate; in this state it acts upon the nerves of the intestinal canal and Us muscular coat, and produces disease." In some habits, particularly when the state of vitality is low a greater quantity of carbonic acid gas is evolved in the intestines than is usual, a circumstance which favours the change just mentioned. Lead, in the small quantity anil in the form in which it is used, may not be a violent and rapid poison ; but every one the least acquainted with this substance must perceive the danger of admitting it into the system in any form whatever: and surely it is not expecting too much that those who perform the rites of hospitality should be careful that they do not administer to their guests slow poison It would therefore be a precaution not useless, that every quantity of wine purchased should be examined for lead by a proper test for this purpose. 364.5. A ready lesfifor detecting the existence of lead in wine consists of water saturated with sulphuretted hydrogen gas, and acidulated with muriatic acid, and may be had of any intelligent and scientific chemist By adding one part of it to two of wine, if lead be present, a dark-coloured or black precipitate will fall down which does not disappear by the addition of muriatic acid. This precipitate consists ofsulphuret of lead - but' to be quite certain of the metal, it is proper to examine this precipitate more particularly ; for this purpose it should be dried and fused before a blowpipe on a piece of charcoal, when it will yield a small globule of metallic lead, known by its malleability and softness. Another method, equally efficacious, is to acidulate a little of the wine with muriatic acid, and then to pass a current of sulphuretted hydrogen gas through the liquor, when the same precipitate will appear. Hahnemann's wine test is as follows: — Mix equal parts of finely-powdered sulphur and of slaked quick- lime, and expose them to a red heat for twenty minutes. To thirty-six grains of this sulphuret of lime add twenty.six grains of super.tartrate of potash (cream of tartar); put the mixture into an ounce bottle, and fill up the bottle with water that has been previously boiled and sulTered to cool. The liquor, after having been repeatedly shaken, and allowed to become clear by the subsidence of the undissolved matter, may then be poured into another phial into which about twenty drops of muriatic acid have been previously put. It is then ready for use. This test, when mingled with wine containing lead or copper, turns the wine of a dark brown or black colour. Litharge has formerly been used in France, as well as in England, to correct the acidity in wines ; but pro- bably not at present, as it is so easily detected by the tests for lead, and better methods are known of perform- ing the desired effect. Lead which has been detected in wine on chemical analysis has sometimes been traced to sliot, used for cleaning the bottles, having been lodged in the angle at the bottom, and dissolved by the acid of the wine. We have alluded to this subject in giving directions for bottling. 3646. Besides these adulterations, various other materials will be mentioned as we proceed; but the variety of substances used by wine doctors are probabl)- endless, and complete information upon the subject is impossible to be obtained. Nor is it possible to point out any tests by which all adulterations in wine can be detected, since many of the substances made use of are of a nature very analogous to that of the ingredients of wine itself, and cannot, therefore, be separated from it by any chemical agent. 3647. Having mentioned the leading facts respecting these nefarious practices, it may be well to describe, in a more particular manner, the adulterations of foreign wines sup- posed to be made by fraudulent dealers. 3648. In the first class of wines deception is seldom practised, from the impossibility of counterfeiting the fine flavour and bouquet so as to deceive experienced judges; thus no attempt to fabricate Lafitte or Romance Conte would succeed. It is in the strong and the inferior wines that adulteration is most usually employed. 3649. It is said that wine is seldom adulterated by the growers on the Continent, as they are so much interested in the reputation of their produce, except, perhaps, in the worst and lowest-priced wines ; but that they are so operated upon in the cellars of the exporter, and much more frequently after they arrive in this countiy. 3650. That port is adulterated in a variety of ways is a fact well known ; but, perhaps, few persons have an idea to what extent this is practised in England. "We have already mentioned, in our description of foreign wines, that the genuine wines of the Douro in Portugal are scarcely, if at all, known amongst us; and we have alluded to the practices of the Oporto Company, and the large addition of brandy made by them for the purpose of preparing their wines for the English market, and to render them palatable to the vitiated taste of the public. To this spirituous strength and coarseness, from the loss of true flavour, it is probable that adulterations of this wine are so easily practised. It is said that four-fifths of the wine called port in the British market is of inferior quality, and therefore peculiarly subject to imitation; hence those who are not accustomed to good wine arc incapable of distinguishing between what may have been imported, and what is the pro- duce of home manufacture. 3651. The frauds committed in the sale of wines called port are of different kinds. Ycrv inferior wines are imported from various parts of Portugal, being either smuggled or paying the same duty as the wines of the Oporto Company; and are either sold here as port, at very low prices, or are used in adulterations such as will be described. Were these cheap wines off'ered to the public fairly as what they are, there would be no reason for complaint, as they would acquire their just character, and would be preferred by many