Chap. IV. SIMPLE DISTILLATIONS. 1057 ' leaves. By the heat the essential oil of the flowers -will be forced out, and not being able ■ to ascend will descend into the water, which will be richly impregnated. 6307. T/ie degri'e of the impregnation of the water, or the quantity of water which a plant is capable of I saturating, is by no means in proportion to the quantity of its oil. The oil saturates only the water that 1 comes over at tlie same time with it ; if there be more oil than is sufficient for this s.ituration, the surplus ■ sep.irates, and concretes in its proper form, not miscible with that which rises afterwards. Some odoriferous I flowers, whose oil is in so small a quantity that scarcely any visible mark of it appears unless fifty or one I hundred pounds or more are distilled at once, give, nevertheless, as strong .an impregnation to water as those I plants which abound most with oil. K)08. Most distilled waters, when first prepared, have a somewhat unpleasant smell, which, however, they I gradually lose: it is therefore advisable to keep them for some days after their preparation in vessels but • slightly covered, and not to cork them up until they lose that smell. After some months they frequently • spoil; but to make them keep better, one-twentieth of their weight of proof spirit may be added. If they be I rectified by distilling a second time, they will keep for several years without the addition of any spirit, which : always gives an unpleasant flavour, and is often objectionable for other reasons. 6309. The distilled waters, as commonly prepared for sale, are seldom of the best quality ; ; and the housekeeper who wishes to possess them in a state of perfection must distil them 1 under her own inspection, and preserve them with the caution that will be directed. In I the country, where there is generally a gardener, this may likewise be a desirable object I of economy, and may afford an amusement neither inelegant nor uninstructive to the ! several branches of the family. 6310. To prepare rose water.—When the buds of the red rose begin to expand into the i full-blown flower, their perfume is most perfect, and in that state they should be gathered i in a dry morning, the heels cut oif, and the leaves only put into a clean cask in layers iwith salt sprinkled between them, to preserve them till they are collected in quantity ssufficient for distiUation. Fill the stiU two-thirds with the petals and salt together, with £a little water at the bottom to prevent bui-ning, or have the still put into a water-bath; I proceed to the distillation with a very slow fire, and receive the first product in several 1 phials in order to examine it. The first will be highly impregnated; and as soon as the ■ slightest empyreumatic odour or burnt smell is perceived, throw away the portion that is I contaminated, and stop the distillation. Rose water should be kept in a cool dark place, -as heat and light speedily cause it to spoil. It is best to put it into a stone jar with a I cork, that it may be drawn off without disturbing the sediment, which is apt to be the I case if decanted from small bottles. It should be made in small quantities at a time, as it •.will not keep long; the salted leaves will keep for months, and do as well for distillation .as when fresh gathered; but it is to be observed that it is an error to suppose that the isalt is of any further use in the distillation, than to keep the leaves from spoiling. 6311. Perfumed tepid loater for the finger glasses before the dessert may be easily pre- [ pared by infusing a few fresh or dried rose petals, lavender, or any other flower, in the 1 morning for the purpose. Rose-water is said to have been first made in Persia; and the Persian rose-water was 1 long esteemed as the best. Our roses give but little perfume. 6312. Distilled waters may be prepared in a similar manner from any of the fragrant herbs or flowers. The fragrance of lavender and j essamine, with many others, when dis- i tilled very slowly with a weak spirit, are readily extracted. 6313. Orange-flower water, which is in the highest request, cannot be made from the flowers in this •country ; it is chiefly imported from France and Italy; the best is from Leghorn. Orange flowers are col- lected every morning in M,ay and June for thirty miles round Paris from both public and private gardens, land likewise the buds that fall from the trees, to make this perfume. When this water is obtained by distil- lation from the fresh flowers, it contains a peculiar principle in consequence of which the water becomes red by a few drops of sulph\iric acid ; and the intensity of the rose colour is in some measure a test of the richness of the water in essential oil. Orange-flower water may be made by dissolving a little of the oil of orange Iflowers called neruli in water. What is imported maybe improved bv putting into a jar containing from flficen to twenty gallons, two or three lumps of white sugar, having dropped upon them about forty drops of bergamot. What is called essence of pelit-grain Is obtained by distilling the leaves of the orange shrub. The only distilled waters retained at present by the London and Edinburgh Colleges !'for the purposes of medicine are those prepared from orange-peel, sweet fennel, rose leaves, peppermint, pennyroyal, spearmint, lemon-peel, cinnamon, cassia cinnamon, dill seeds, and pimento. 6314. The following directions for preparing distilled waters used as medicines are from 'those in the dispensatories. Distilled water T.ike of water ten gallons. Distil four pints, which are to bo rejected; then distil four gallons to be used. The first and last portions of the water .are rejected as impure. Peppermint water. — Put a pound and a half of the peppermint into the still. Pour over it as much water as will prevent empyreuma or burning during distillation. Distil a gallon. Pennyroyal water. — The process is the same as the last. Distil as long as the water has the fine flavour of the herb. Spearmint water Is prociired in the same manner. Cinnamon water. — Steep one pound of bruised cinnamon in a gallon .ind a half of water for two days • ■ then distil off the w.'>ter till It ceases to run milky ; put what comes over into the still, and distil again. ' Water of orange-peel Take of fresh orange-peel two pounds ; add so much water th:it wheu ten pounds h,ive been drawn oft'by distillation there shall remain a sufficient quantity to prevent empyreuma. Alter dun maceration distil ten pounds, to which add Ave pounds of diluted alcohol. 3 Y