HOUSEHOLD SERVANTS AND THEIR DUTIES. Book VI. 348 inay be cleaued by washing it gently with soap aud water; but if of burnished gilding, which IS most usual, it should never have any moisture applied to it. (See Cliap. IV. Hook V " Gilding.'') A brush of cotton wool or of feathers is best adapted for removinir the dust which may settle on it. r b «, uusi 1662. 7o yildiny the flies are the greatest enemies; but if, during those periods of the year m which they are numerous and active, gilding were covered over with thin coarse lenoor gauze, it might be preserved unsoiled for many years. Sect. III. CLEANING ARTICLES IN THE BCTLEr's PANTKY. SuBSECT. 1.,— China, Earthenware, and Glass. 1663. China and earthenware should be washed in plenty of warm soap and water, rinsed clean in a second bowl of water alone, either warm or cold, should be then turned down to drain, and afterwards wiped dry with linen tea-cloths. Settlings of any liquid which have been suflfered to dry up at the bottom of earthen vessels may be dissolved generally by a little pearlash and water, or with soda instead of pearlash: either of these -will also quickly remove any oiliness which may be on the surface of earthenware or porcelain. Neither porcelain nor earthenware will bear sudden immersion into hot water when the weather is cold, without great danger of its cracking. 1664. In washing glass the above caution is still more requisite to observe than respect to china and earthenware. To put glass suddenly into boiling water in cold weather would be inevitably to break it. Glass should be waslicd in water moderately warm ; and tlie quantity of water used should be abundant, and in proportion to the number ot'arlieles to be washed. When taken out of the water, each article should be at first turned down on a table or dresser, that the water may.run off from them. Afterwards they should be dried with a soft linen cloth, and, before they are placed for use, each should be polished with a clean soft skin of wash le.ither kept for the purpose. Glass should never be brought to table with the dull linty surface which negligence in wiping it would give it. Fur cut glass tiie use of a soft brush may be requisite to polish it well ; but if any brush or rubber of a harsh nature be applied, glass, which easily receives scratches on its surface, would lose irrecoverably its beauty and brilliance. 166.5. Glass discoloured with the settlings of port wine may require more than common washing. A solution of soda will effect solution of the colouring matter. A bottle brush is sometimes used to remove the wine settlings, but it is liable to scratch the glass. SuBSECT. 2. — Cleaning Plate. 1666. Plate is cleaned in various ways, and every butler or footman has a prejudice in favour of one or other mode. In cleaning plate the objects to be attained (when it has been washed in hot soap and water immediately after it has been in use) is to erase all scratches and scores which it had received from being thrown carelessly together, or against substances of a harder and rougher nature than its own, and thus restore the polish. After washing it in hot soap and water, it should be rinsed in cold water; then, before putting it away, it should be rubbed with wash-leather. But this may not be always sufficient to remove entirely the dim coating given by the oily matters it has been brought into contact with. If greasy, they will require being washed with a hot solution of alkali, such as potash, or soda and water, which will remove the grease and render them fit for polishing. 1667. For cleaning plate two good sized skins of wash-leather are requisite, together with a brush of soft and fine bristles, for cleaning away from the cruets, cyphers, and chasings the ingredients with which the plate had been cleaned. With one leather, the plate is first rubbed with the powder employed to clean it, and afterwards with the other, in order to give it a final polish. As this last-mentioned leather should be kept parti- cularly clean, it should be washed occasionally with soap and water and dried, and used for no other purpose. 1668. Polishing powders for plate are sold in the shops ; but, as they are apt to wear the silver, they should be used as sparingly as possible. One called rouge powder is much recommended by silversmiths; and, though they find it very useful and efi'ectual, yet, if used as often as plate requires cleaning in a family (perhaps twice a week), the plate would suffer considerable wear. 1669. Finely washed ivhiting is one of the safest plate powders. To prepare this, mix some whiting up with water, and stir it well; then, lotting the whole remain a minute or two, pour off the white fluid into another vessel, and suffer the sediment of the part poured off to settle. This sediment will, when dried, be the fine washed whiting desired, all the coarse gritty part having been left behind in the first vessel. AMaiting, in general, is fine enough without being washed ; but this operation secures it from containing any