Chap. VIII. ON THE VARIOUS SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS. 687 38Sa Atiot/ier receipt for usnnebach directs that the following ingredients shonld be digested m five gallons of French brandy for a rortnight, viz.: nutmegs, cassia-cinnamon, angelica root, liay Siidron, rhubarb, of each, one ounce; mace, cloves, lesser cardamon seeds, of eacli, two draclims ; liquorice root, three ounces j coriander seeds, aniseeds, turmeric root, caraway seeds, of each, one ounce. 3889 Meg Dod's usqucbach To two quarts ol the best brandy or whiskey without a smoky or peculiar taste, put a pound of stoned raisins, half an ounce of nutmeg, quarter of an ounce of cloves, the same quantity of cardamoms all bruised in a mortar ; the rind of a Seville orange rubbed off on lumps of sugar, a little tinc- ture of saffron, and half a pound of brown candy-eugar. Shake the infusion every day for a fortnight, and filter it for use. 04s. not a drop of water must be put to this cordial. It is sometimes tinged of a fine green with the juice of spinach, instead of the safiVon tint, from which it probably takes the name of usquebah, or yellow water. SuBSECT. 11 — Liqueurs. 3890. The more elegant kinds of compound spirits are made in the same general way as those we have spoken of by flavouring distilled spirits -with fruits, spices, and other substances. They are much less used in this country than on the Continent at present, from which the greater number are imported under the name of liqueurs, and of which we give a list: — Price per Quart in Price per Quart in the London Shops. the London Shops. s. d. s. d. Creme de Noyau, red and white . . lOs. Cd. to 12 G Creme de Vanille . . 10 6 de The . . . 10 6 de Rou . . . 10 6 de Mirobolanti .12 6 de Barbades . . 12 6 de Parfait amour . 10 6 de Canelle . .12 6 de Moka . . .12 6 Price per Quart in the London Shops. s. d. Creme d'Absynthe . . 12 6 de Portogallo . . 10 6 Beaume Humane . .12 6^ Huile de Vanille . . 12 G Per Dozen. Jamaica lime shrub . . 60 0 Punch essence . . . GO 0 Pine-.tpple punch . . 48 0 Apricot brandy . . . 36 0 Milk punch. . . . 42 0 Maraschino di Zara . . 14 0 Curapoa double d'orange . 14 0 Dantzig gold water . . 14 0 Italian ditto . . . 10 0 Dantzig cherry brandy . 10 G Copenhagen ditto . . 10 6 Hofman's ditto . . . i) 0 English cherry brandy . 7 0 Ratafia de Grenoble . .14 0 Kirchwassen, Black Forest 14 0 It would be in vain to attempt to imitate here the best foreign liqueurs, and these are best pm-chased from the importers who deal in them. A few, however, that are service- able may be made in a domestic establishment without much difficulty. The receipts we give are taken from the best authorities. 3891. For the preparation of liqueurs, it is not always necessary to have genuine French brandy, which is very expensive. A tolerable substitute may Tae made by mixing six quarts of cyder with a gallon of rectified spirits of wine, to which should be added about two drachms of catechu in powder. The cyder affords an agreeable flavour to the dis- tilled spirit, by forming a species of malic ether, very much resembling the finest French brandy, and the catechu precipitates a gelatinous substance usually combined with the spirit. 3892. For the more common kinds of compound spirits or cordials, the best rectified malt spirits alone is usually employed. 3893. Maraschino is a liqueur originally prepared in Zara by distillation from the cherry. An imitation of it is directed to be made in various ways, of which the follow- ing is one. Mash sufficient morello cherries, the stones being taken out, to afford a quart of pulp and juice together ; the same quantity of the juice and pulp of the small black wild cherries stoned, and a like quantity of mashed raspberries, making together three quarts. Pound half the stones of each kind of cherry with two ounces of peach leaves, and the same quantity of black currant leaves. Put all these to two quarts of rectified spirit, with a drachm of catechu in powder, and let them infuse for a month. At the expiration of this time, charge the still with the materials, apply a very gentle heat, and draw off from five to six pints; but discontinue the distillation as soon as any milk- iness appears. 3894. Kirschwiisser. — This is a spirit made in Germany and Switzerland from cherry juice fermented ; the name signifies cherry water. A great deal is made in the Black Forest; but it is to be had in London. It is made as follows : Take any quantity of ripe cherries, (wild cherries or geans are the best), and in a mortar or wooden tub bruise kernel and pulp together. To every twenty pints of bruised fruit add five pints of water and two pints of brandy (gooseberry brandy will do) ; mix them, and let it ferment for a fortnight; squeeze out the liquid, and put the refuse under a press to express the remainder ; then put the whole Into a still, draw off the spirit, and rectify this by a second distillation. This liquor always contains some prusslc acid from the cherry stones, and sometimes so much as to be almost poisonous, and it may be injurious to some constitutions as a liquor This would not be the case if the kernels were not used ; but then the peculiar flavour of the liqueur would be wanting. Any one making it for their own use might employ only a few kernels. 389.5. Persicot.—Take four ounces each of the kernels of apricots and nectarines; mash them in a mortar with eight ounces of peach leaves, and four ounces of black currant leaves ; add a drachm of beaten cinnamon, and the same quantity of mace ; put all these into five quarts of prepared spirit; let them infuse a week, and draw off about two quarts, or, if It run clear, five pints, with a gentle heat.