ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 302 Book V. riveting it when broken, the usual method is to use a drill made of a splinter of diamond set into a handle, and this is an ell'ectual mode ; but as a diamond may not always be at hand for this purpose, it is useful to know that holes may be worked in these materials without it. Procure a three-cornered file, and harden it completely by making the end red hot, and plunging it into cold water; then grind the point quite sharp on a grindstone, and afterwards on an oil stone. Then, with the point of this tool, pick repeatedly on the spot to be bored, taking care not to use too much violence lest the object should break. In a short time, or in a few minutes, by a continuance of the operation, a small conical piece will be forced out not bigger than a pin's head, and the hole may afterwards be widened by introducing the point, and working the file round. 1332. The best cement, for bruhen china or glass is that sold under the name of the Diamond cement, which is colourless, and resists moisture. Tliis is made by soaking isinglass in water till it is soft, and then dissolving it in proof spirit. Add to this a little gum am- moniac, or galbanum and mastic, both dissolved in as little alcohol as possible. SVTien the cement is to be used, it must be gently liquefied by placing the phial containing it in boiling water. The phial must be well closed by a good cork, not by a glass stopper, as this nuiy become fixed. It is applied to the broken edges with a carael's-hair pencil. 1333. When the objects are not to be exposed to moisture, white of egg alone, or mixed with finely sifted quicklime will answer pretty well. Shell-lac, dissolved in spirits of wine, is better. 1334. A very strong cement for earthenware is made by boiling slices of skimmed milk cheese with water into a paste, and then grinding it with quicklime in a marble mortar, or on a slab with a mallet. CHAP. XVI. ON GLASS. . Sect. I. HISTORY OF GLASS-MAKING. 1335. This substance has now become so familiar to every one in civilised society, that many are not aware that its general use is comparatively modern. To form a just esti- mate of its importance, we have only to carry our ideas back to those times when it was unknown, or consider what would be our condition if deprived of this valuable material. Although the invention of glass dates from a remote period, it is scarcely above a century or two that its use has become general in the windows of domestic edifices; and to this day, a great part of the world has not yet learned to employ it for this purpose. It is curious and interesting to reflect how much pleasure and convenience have been added to our habitations by the introduction of glass windows. The compactness of this ad- mirable substance renders it efEca,cious in excluding the fiercest shower or keenest wind, while its ti-ansparency allows the rays of light to pass through without obstruction. By these means, therefore, the house is rendered not only warm, but light and agreeable, and the sight may, at the same time, be gratified with the beauties of a fine country or a deli- cious gai'den, and all that passes without may be distinctly seen from the interior of the building. 1336. The discovery of glass is involved in the same obscurity as many other inventions important to mankind. Accident probably first produced it, and the vitrification of various substances by a high degree of heat being observed by some reflecting person, would naturally give rise to experiments that might ultimately lead to some process for obtain- ing it at pleasure. Numberless instances must have occurred of the occasional fusion of earthy substances by means of intense heat, as in the making of potterj- and bricks ; and masses of coarse glass are often found in places where great fires have been. AVe are, indeed, informed by Pliny, that, according to tradition, glass was discovered in the fol- lowing manner. A merchant-ship, laden with fossil alkali, being driven upon the coast of Phoenicia, the sailors, in cooking some provisions on the shore, had made use of pieces of the alkali to support their kettle ; in consequence of which a vitrification of the sand took place, the alkali acting as a flux, and that this gave the first hint for the manufacture of this material. Whether this was the actual manner in which the discovery was made or not, nothing is more probable than the story ; and we find that the earliest accounts attribute the manufacture of glass to the inhabitants of Tyro and Sidon ; but the first that was made was no doubt cxtrujnely imperfect, and destitute of that beautiful and complete transparency which distinguishes it at present.