Book IV. 128 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. suet, the former giving firmness, consistence, and gloss. When of the best quality, tallow is white, firm, and brittle : it is then nearly without taste, but has always more or less of an oppressive odour. To be pure, there should be no admixture of oil or grease of any kind, and it is to this species of adulteration that the bad quality of candles is chiefly owing. It is very important that too great a proportion of mutton suet should not be used ; for this possesses a peculiar principle called hirsine, which has a disagreeable odour that distinguishes it from the fat of other quadrupeds, and which occasions it some- times to give a disagreeable smell, particularly in hot weather. Hogs' fat causes candles to gutter, smell, and smoke ; and the ordinary dipped candles are very often adulterated with kitchen stufi'. Tallow is sometimes melted in a vessel heated by a naked fire, which is very liable to injure it: it is much better to employ a vessel surrounded by steam: a little alum is put in with the taUow to harden it. 580. Foreign tallow has often a yellow tinge, and frequently contains a considerable portion of sebacic acid: it is generally inferior to the English ; but Mr. Parkes informs us in his Essaj'S, that the former may be purified at a trifling expense by chemical means ; and by the proper application of chemical agents, brown tallow may be rendered beauti- fully white, and fit for the best purposes. If tallow is bad, a part soon becomes converted into acid by exposure to the air; and this renders the whole, when melted together, unfit for the making of candles. 581. The method recommended for separating the sebacic acid from the tallow, is that of melting it in water containing some alkali. But old tallows may, in general, be sufficiently purified from their rancidity by melting them upon lime water, and giving a considerable agitation to the whole mixture : when the water is again suffered to subside, it will be found to be offensive in smell, and to have subtracted most of the impurities of the tallow. Should it, however, be found not to be sufficiently purified, a repetition of this process will be found effectual. 582. Hie late discovery respecting tallow, by which it is shown to consist of two substances stearine, and elaine, will be described in Chap. III. Book. IV., under " Composition Candles." Sect. V. OIL. SuBSECT. 1. — General Observations on Oil. 583. Of all the substances employed for procuring artificial light, oil is the most ex- tensively used. This substance, in its purest state, when analysed by tlic chemist, is found to consist of carbon, hydrogen, and a small proportion of oxygen; and its distinctive characters are, that it has always unctuosity, is insoluble in water, not uniting with it by itself. 584. Oils are divided into two great classes; fat or fixed oils, and volatile or essential oils. 585. Fixed oils are so called, because they do not boU or become volatilised, and do not inflame, until they are heated to 600°. When they are heated nearly to this point, they begin to decompose, and give out a vapour which is very inflammable, and which contitutes carbonated hydrogen or oil gas. The oil does not ignite, indeed, until it is brought into a state of vapour; and on this account, as we have before stated, wicks are ne- cessary, by enabling a small quantity to be successively exposed to a high temperature: it then burns or ignites in atmospheric air, a large quantity of light and heat being given out by its combustion. That this should be complete, free access of air is essential ; for if the supply of air be imperfect, it burns with a black smoke, which arises from a portion of carbon vapour escaping without being burned, as explained already. It is the fixed oils that are usually employed in procuring artificial light. 586. Volatile or essential oils are seldom used for this purpose ; they are converted into vapour at a low degree of heat, and their great volatility renders them unsuitable for the ordinary purposes of illumination. 587. Fluid oil is procured both from animal and vegetable substances. AVhcn ob- tained from animals in the solid state, it is called /afand talloio, which have been already described ; fish oil is generally fluid. _ , Fixed vegetable oil occurs in plants, associated with mucilage, sometimes in the fruits, as in nuts; occasionally in the pulp, surrounding the seeds, as in the olive; but most frequently in the seeds themselves, as linseed, rape-seed, &c. Some vegetable fixed oils, which are fluid in tropical climates, are solid in the usual temperature of this country, such as cocoa-nut oil ; and it may here be observed, that the state of solidity or fluidity of all oleaginous substances depends merely upon the temperature to which they arc exposed. All of them assume the solid state at a certain temperature peculiar to them ; an oil that is always fluid in India may be generally solid in our climate. Several of the solid