CALENDERING. 1013 Chap. XIII. 3 T 3 direction, and prints the cloth. After the piece is printed, it passes over several metallic boxes, heated by steam, which dry it. A piece of cloth may thus be printed and dried in one or two minutes, which, by the old method, would have required the application of the blocks 448 times ; nor is this all; two, three, four, and even five cylinders may be used at the same time in one press, each cylinder having engraved upon it a different portion of the pattern, and being supplied with a different colour. The piece passes over them successively, and receives the entire pattern almost in the same moment. To produce the same effect by hand-block printing would have required 896, 1344, 1792, and 2240 ap- plications of the blocks, according as two, three, four, or five cylinders may have been employed. The saving of labour, therefore, is immense ; one of the cylinder printing machines attended by a man and a boy is actually capable of producing as much work as could be turned out by one hundred block printers and as many hoys. In consequence of the wonderful facility given to the operation, three-fourths of all the prints executed in this country are printed by the cylinder machine." But the course of improvement did not stop here. These cylinders can be multiplied to an extraordinary degree by the process for multiplyiilg copper plates for printing, an invention usually ascribed to Mr. Perkins, but which Mr. Baines states had been practised in Manchester some years before he came from Amei'ica. 5979. Another kindof cylinders for calico-printing consists of cylinders of wood, which have pieces of brass let into the wood, and projecting above the surface an eighth of an inch. 5980. Calico-printing requires that the conductors should be acquainted with chemistry, since many of the processes depend essentially upon chemical laws, and the knowledge of these leads to improvements in this complicated art. In large establishments, thei-efore, there are always some persons who have studied this branch of science. 5981. The large print works of Lancashire are among the most interesting manufactories that can be visited. The bleaching, the block printing, the cylinder printing, the dyeing, the designs of patterns, the engi-aving of blocks and cylinders, and the preparation of colours, frequently all go on within the same enclosure, and form a splendid exhibition of the application of science and mechanics to the arts. Some of these print works employ some thousands of workpeople, while the order and cleanliness of the works impress the visitors with agreeable surprise. 5982. Linen is seldom printed like calico, hecmse the latter is cheaper, and printed linens are not so beautiful, the material possessing less affinity for colouring matters. 5983. The printing of silks, fine looollen stuffs, such as merinoes, mousseline de laine, &c., or stuffs of silk and wool, is conducted upon the same general principles as the printing of cottons ; but all the former require very different and complicated processes. CHAP. xm. CAXENDERING. 5984. Calendering is a process by which all accidental wrinkles and creases are removed from various kinds of silks, stuffs, calicoes, and linens, and their surfaces ren- dered smooth and tmiform. Calicoes are always calendered previous to printing, to make the threads flat. The high polish which certain goods require was formerly effected by rubbing the cloth with a smooth flint stone, but it is now performed by calendering, or passing the cloth between two rollers, one of which is made to move slower than the other. Some of these rollers are made of cast-iron, and hollow, so that heaters can be introduced, which is useful in some kinds of goods. Calendering is also used for pressing certain stuffs previous to packing. It is likewise used by the scourers and dyers after their several operations: but calendering is a particular branch of business, and this process is seldom, if ever, performed in private fiimilies. 5985. A glazing upon some articles is sometimes produced by the old process of rubbing a smooth hard substance on them, as a polished flint, and, to render the gloss more com- plete, a little bleached wax is rubbed on the cloth previously.