LINEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. CllAP. III. 9G9 matter. The seeds afford oil by pressure, and the refuse oil-cakes serve to feed cattle, and for manure. 5705. The next operation is to obtain the flaxen fibre, clean and free from all other material. We stated that this fibre is the bark of the plant, and some process must be employed that shall destroy the parenchymatous matter, or the internal part of the stem, and leave the fibre uninjured. This is effected by several methods. 1. The flax, tied lightly in bundles, is put into a reservoir of soft stagnant water to steep; by this a slight fermentation takes place in the inner substance, and in a few days it begins to rot; as soon as this occurs, the flax is withdrawn from the water before the decompo- sition has had time to extend to the fibres themselves. This process is the most dis- agreeable thing belonging to the management of flax, since the smell arising from the rotting or retting, as it is called, of the gummy or mucilaginous matter which holds the fibres together, is extremely offensive and prejudicial.to health, and the infected water is apt to kill the fish which swim in it. Endemic fevers are common in districts where much flax is steeped. Great skill and precaution are necessary in this part of the opera- tion ; if the flax be left too long in the water, the filaments will become rotten and useless, and if not long enough, they will not separate with sufficient ease; it is better to take it out rather at an earlier period, than to leave it too long in the pits. The time it should remain will depend upon the degree of ripening of the flax, and the temperature of the water. The mode in which the skeletons of leaves are prepared will illustrate this pro- cess. If leaves of trees be suffered to lie for some weeks in water, the pulpy matter will decay, so as to be removed by the slightest rubbing, while all the veins of the leaves re- main uninjured ; these veins are similar in point of strength to the bark of the flax, and both remain equally entire after the soft matter has rotted. It is the acetous fermentation that takes place in retting, and the flax is to be taken out as soon as this fermentation is finished, and before the putrid begins. 2. The flax is sometimes laid in running instead of stagnant water ; in this case the decomposition does not go on so rapidly, and it will be several weeks before it is sufficient, but the fibres will be very strong. 3. Instead of laying the flax in water, it is merely spread upon the grass, and the joint action of rain and dew effect the same thing in about six weeks that took place in the steeping process. This method is practised in Devonshire, and in various places on the Continent, and is favourable to preserving the strength of the fibre, though steeping is the most general process. After steeping, the flax is spread out upon the grass, for the purpose of rectifying any defect in the watering, and for carrying on the decomposition to that point when the fibre will separate from the core or boon, as it is called, with the greatest ease, which is known by rubbing some between the hands. 570G. After the retting, the harl still contains, besides the textile filaments, a certain portion of the glutinous cement which is not soluble in water ; and the destruction of this by putrefaction alone cannot be carried to the last without injury to the flax ; it is, therefore, effected by exposure to the weather. Dew-retting is the safest, and does not produce the same noxious air ; the length of time required is the only objection. Mixed retting is sometimes preferred, where it is begun in water, and is finished by the dew. 570". Tlie smallest filaments of flax readily separate from each other when delicately washed with hot water or an alkaline ley, or when a thread of cloth is dissected with a needle point. They have an average diameter of j^of an inch. Different specimens of flax separate into these minute fibrils with different degrees of facility, and thereby create different grades of value for the fine spinner. Good flax should be long, fine, glistening, and soft like silk, of a silver grey, neither greenish nor blackish. 5708. The flaxen fibre having been thus rendered easily separable by the retting is next to be dressed, a terra which includes the various processes for bringing it into a state proper for the fabrication of cloth and other articles. In flax dressing the first process is the scutching, or separating the fibre itself from the core. This was formerly effected by an instrument termed a brake, which has blunt teeth or knives that are forced down upon the flax. This was formerly worked by hand, but the operation was afterwards more expeditiously executed by machinery turned by water or other power ; rollers are now frequently used in Britain instead of the brake. But the whole of the woody matter is not detached by the brake or the hammer, and rub- bing is also employed; this is done by laying some flax upon the knee and scraping it with a blunt knife. There are some slight modifications in the dressing according to the kind of cloth to be made from the flax, whether linen, lawn, cambric, &c. 5709. Hackling is the next operation in flax dressing. The hackle is a strong copib composed of several rows of iron or steel teeth several inches long, fixed upright in a block of wood as a base, made fast to a bench, and the workman strikes a lock of flax across the pointed summits of these, and draws it through. Coarser and wider toothed hackles are used first, and then others progressively closer toothed as the fibres become finer by separation. In manufactories the hackling is now performed by machinery. By this process the filaments are separated from each other ; the shorter fibres unfit for spin-