642 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book Vlll. then the CJisks burst, and the wine is lost. They should be kept steady with wedges. Wines In wood gene- rally ferment more or less about the time of the equinoxes, when the weather is very unsettled ; and then Ihey exert such a force upon the staves, that they arc apt to burst, particularly if any stave happens to be decayed : to prevent this a gimlet hole should be bored in the bung, and stopped with a peg, to be drawn out occa- Bionally to give vent to the gas. The casks should be filled up montluy, to make up for the loss by evapora- tion, or mouldiness will come over the surface of the wine and spoil it. 360G. The binns to hold the bottles are in some cellars made of brickwork ; in others of wood, which is apt to decay ; and in others they are of cast iron, and moveable, which is very convenient. The bottles should be placed in rows upon cacti other; some put laths between each row, to prevent one from touching the other, which might occasion breakage. The lowest row should be very well bedded upon sand or sawdust, though some omit this ; and it is necessary to take c.ire that the bottles are placed quite horizontally; for if the neck be higher than the bottom, the cork will be left to dry, and cease to close well; if lower, the lees, which continues to form, will mix. with the liquid when used. SuBSECT. 3.—Racking. 3607. Hacking is transferring wine into another cask ; this process requires sometimes to be performed in the manufacture of the wine, as has been already shown ; and it is often necessary in the cellar, to put an end to any fermentation that may have begun ; and it is also necessary previous to a cask of wine being removed. Should the fermentation, from any cause, be renewed in the cellar, there is great danger of its passing into the first stage of acetification, or, according to the coopers' phrase, of being pricked. Fqr racking it is proper to choose dry cold weather, as it is then only that the wines are clear. They are frequently turbid in damp close weather, and in southerly winds; and it is evident, that if they are then racked, a portion of the thick matter will come off with the liquor. The mode in which this operation is performed is very necessary to be known. By the common method of tapping, it is scarcely possible to draw off the wine without mixing a portion of the lees with it; and the wine is much injured by being so much exposed to the air. A syphon introduced at the bung does it very effectually if well managed. An excellent method, much used in France, is one similar to that which is practised by the retailers of „. rrj ^ porter here in drawing that liquor, namely, the condensation of air ■*''^* ' HA \ on its surface. This may be readily performed without the aid of com- plicated machinery. To effect it a straight brass tap with a key to turn like a cock is fixed in the full cask, a. Jig. 564., three or four inches iibove the bottom, according to the quantity of the lees. A leathern hose, three or four feet long, is provided, terminated by two tubes in a conical form to fit the brass tap. Fit one of these tubes into the orifice of the tap, and the other into the bung-hole of the empty cask, b. Some small holes must be bored in the highest stave of the empty cask ; and fit the nozzle of a pair of common bellows in the bung-hole of the full cask. Turn the key of the brass tap so as to permit the wine to flow, and by the action of the bellows, it will pass through the hose into the empty cask j by this means the wine will be transferred from one cask to the other without in the least disturbing the sediment. When all the wine has run that will pass by the hose, withdraw it, and stoop the cask to get out what more of the wine is clear. There are other methods of racking too well known to require description. SuBSECT. 4.—Sulphuring. 3608. Sulphuring we have mentioned as a process always employed in the preparation of sweet wines on the Continent ; and occasionally it is used here by the maker of domestic wines. Its use is to check completely any fermentation that has begun improperly, and this it will do, after many other methods have failed. The explanation of its effect is the following : By the burning of sulphur, the pungent vapour produced is an acid of a gaseous nature, called sulphurous acid, which has a strong attraction for the fermenting principle in wine ; and when they unite, the ferment loses its power, and becomes inactive and dead. If wine, therefore, be made to absorb in any way the vapour of burning sulphur, the ferment which it contains is effectually destroyed, and hence no future fermentation can take place in the fluid. The manner of elTecting the sulphuring is sufficiently simple. Matches dipped in sulphur are introduced into the empty cask which is to receive the wine which is to be operated upon, where they are suffered to burn .TS long as they will; and they will only be extinguished when they have exh-wsted or consumed all the atmosXric air in the cask. The vessel will then bo full of sulphurous .icid gas. The ma chcs may be fixed upon f wke turned up like a hook, and fastened to the under side of the bung ; after hghtmg them they arc pSt nto the cask, and the bung adjusted to the hole. During the burnmg the .iir expands, and escapes through a m.^11 hole bored in the bung. Great care must be taken that the match does not drop off .n o ho cask The wine is then poured into it, and, after being suffered to remam some tune, is racked oil i.i the "*Once sulnhuring is generally sufficient, but sometimes the process requires to be repeated, should the fer- menrbe ve?f abundant "or it may happen that a slight sulph'uring may be thought enough: in that c-u.e a part of the ifnuor only may be drawn from the cask, and a brimstone match m.idc of r.igs m.iy be held or su - Sendcd for a short Lc !n the cask through the bung-hole, .md then withdr.iwn. One thing should be Sbserved thVlt is said sulphuring is apt to communicate an unpleas,int t^iste to the wine. . Other substances answer the same pu, pose, .Is sulphite of ,.otash ; a >lrachm of this salt is sufficient for a pipe of wme, and is very useful in checking fermentation, and communicates no taste to the wine. SunsECT. 5 Clarifying Wines. 3609. Racking alone being generally insufficient to deprive wine of all its turbid certain quantity will still remain in the liquor. The complete clarifcation, winch .s aM called Fining, can only be effected by precipitating the turbid matter by those substanc«|. which experience has proved to possess this power. These are fish glue or ismgl»«"