Chap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 469 Sect. VII. ASPARAGINOUS PLANTS. 2309. The name of this division is derived from the practice of the ancients, who called airyoung sprouts of vegetables by the term asparagus, although this name is now confined to a par'ticular species. This class comprehends asparagus, sea-kale, artichoke, cardoon, rampion, and alisander. In all of them it is only a small portion of the vegetable that is eaten, and that most generally in a young and undeveloped state ; they belong to the class of luxurious rather than of necessary food, and they are brought to perfection only by great care and attention on the part of the gardener, and at a considerable expense in preparing the ground. In their wild state they are chiefly sea shore plants unfit for himian food. Sdbsect. 1.—Asparagus (^Asparagus officinalis, Linn.). 2510. Asparagus, often, in London, vulgarly and absurdly called sparrow grass, is a vegetable highly esteemed and largely cultivated in the garden for the London market. It has been so much improved by cultivation, that the original plant from which it has ibeen derived could not be recognised except by the botanist. 2511. Wild asparagus is a very small vegetable that grows in poor sandy soils both in 'North and South Britain, on the sea shore, but is not very common. In the saline and sandy steppes of Russia and Poland it is abundant, and is fed on by horses and cattle. iThe Romans had asparagus of very large size, and it was cultivated with great success in Holland, but it is now grown in greater quantities in the environs of London than any kwhere else in the world ; at Deptford and Mortlake there are hundreds of acres planted iwith this vegetable. 2512. The part which is eaten is the young shoot, as far as the flower not yet developed. \Asparagus is a light digestible food, but not particularly nutritious. The tops of the shoots lare not blanched in this country, but in Spain the whole is blanched by placing pieces of xane over it. Sdbsect. 2.— Sea-kale (^Crambe maritima. Linn.). 2513. This plant is so named from its growing naturally on our sea shores, particularly lin the West of England, and near Dublin. The young spring shoots just as they begin :o appear, and the stalks of the unfolded leaves then blanched and tender, are the parts ;:hat are cut off and boiled for use. Though collected by the peasants and eaten as a pot- liuerb time out of mind, and even cultivated in the garden, yet it appears that it was Dr. I Letsom, in 1767, who first gave it a good character, and that it did not come into high rcepute until 1794. It is now in very general use, and, within the last ten or fifteen years, haas become a very common and cheap vegetable. It is one of the most valuable esculents inndigenous to Britain. 2514. It is dressed and eaten in the manner of asparagus, and the shoots are usually hblanched ; but it requires to be very well boiled, as it is naturally hard. It is easily culti- vyated, and forced in the winter season; and it is a great luxury at table, since in that reason many vegetables are difficult to be procured. It might be produced in many places nn the sea shore, where no other edible vegetable would grow, seeming to prefer a poor ■jiandy soil. The flowers form a favourite resort for bees. SuBSECT. 3.—Artichoke (^Cynara Scolymus, Linn.). 2515. Like the sea-kale, the artichoke is a maritime plant, and succeeds best when manui'ed rvith sea weeds. It was probably brought from the Mediterranean and cultivated in ! England about 1580. The part which is eaten is the flower head in an immature state: ' vhat is called the artichoke bottom is the fleshy receptacle, which is surrounded by the )ristles and seed down, vulgarly called the choke, and by also a soft substance on the lower lart of the leaves of the calyx. In England artichokes are boiled plain and eaten with nelted butter and pepper; the bottoms are also stewed in milk; occasionally they are lickled. The French fry them and use them in ragouts; or thin slices of the bottoms are :ut off, each having a leaf attached by which it is lifted and eaten raw as salad. The ' towers may be used for coagulating milk. The shoots and young leaves are sometimes ilanched by earthing, and eaten as chard. Artichokes may be dried and preserved for :-ise. SuBSEcT. 4.— Cardoon (^Cynara cardunculus. Linn.). 2510. This plant is a native of Candia, and was brought into England a century after ' he artichoke. It much resembles the artichoke, but grows higher. It is esteemed on the Continent, but is little used in England; the stalks and ribs of the inner leaves are em- ployed in soups and ragouts. The Spanish cardoon is the best. H h 3