ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. 188 Book V. contain another principle, gallic acid, whicb, as well as tan, has the property of forming an ink or black liquid vnt\\ the salts of iron : hence, leather is easily rendered black by rub- bing it over with a solution of green vitriol or sulphate of iron. What we have just stated is the chemical principle upon which the making of tanned leather depends : but in the practice of tanning, a variety of circumstances are to be attended to. The various kinds and qualities of leather are owing to the different skins employed, or the modification of the art of tanning, in order to suit them for their several uses. Some are made very thick and strong, for the soles of shoes ; others are rendered soft and pliable, being intended for the upper leathers of shoes, for gloves, and other articles. 846. LeallLcr tanned in England consists chiefly of three sorts; the thickest and strongest kind used for the tliickest soles of shoes, is known by the name of butts or backs, and are made of the stoutest and heaviest ox hides. The next in thickness, used for thinner soles of shoes, are called crop hides, and are made of cow hides, or lighter ox hides. The third sort is named calfskins, and are made from the skins of calves, horses, seals, dogs, &c.: they are used for the upper leathers of shoes, boots, &c. Besides the skins of animals recently slaughtered in this country, many are imported in a dried state, those of cows and bulls chiefly from the Pampas of South America; sheep skins from the Cape of Good Hope ; lamb and kid skins from Italy; and goats' skins from Barbary, &c. Different tanners and leather-dressers have generally some parts of the process peculiar to themselves ; but the following are those which are usually practised in this country. 847. For Butts, or the strongest sole leather, after the bonis are taken off, the hides are laid smooth in heaps for a few days, after which they arc suspended on poles in a close room called a smoke-house, where the temperature is kept somewhat elevated by a smouldering fire of wet tan. This occasions a slight putrefaction, which causes the cuticle with the hair to be got easily off by spreading the bide on a wooden horse, and scraping it with a crooked knife. The reason for taking off the cuticle is this : it is not formed of gelatine, like the cutis, but of albumen; it is analagous to thin horn, is incapable of combining with tannin, and would prevent the latter from acting upon the true skin. The hides are then put into a pit containing a strong infusion of bark called ooze, which operation is termed colouring; after which they are removed into another pit containing water impregnated with about a thousandth part of sulphuric acid: this is called raising, and is for the purpose of distending the pores of the hides, and occasioning t1iem more readily to imbibe the tannin infusion, which is to combine with the gelatine of the skin and form leather. They are next transferred into a pit, where they are disposed with ground oak bark between each layer of hides. The pit is filled up with ooze, and the hides remain in this for about a month or six weeks. By that time all the tannin of the bark has combined with the skin, and the liquor is then drawn out, and fresh ooze and bark put in as before. The skins lie in this for three months, at the end of which time the process is repeated; and after remaining four or five months longer, they are usually completely tanned, except the hides are remarkably thick, when they may require another repetition of the process. The time required for tanning in this manner is from a year to eighteen months, or even two years. They are now taken out of the pit to be dried by being hung on poles, and they are then beaten smooth with wooden hammers, called batts, and compressed with a steel tool to render them more firm, when they are fit for sale. 848. When the leather called crop hides is to be made, the skins are put into a pit full of water saturated with lime for a few days; they are then taken out, and the hair is scraped off, and afterwards the loose flesh and other superfluities. Next they are put into a pit with weak ooze of oak bark, from which they are transferred to pits with stronger ooze ; all the time they are daily moved about, which is called handling. After this is continued for about six weeks, they are placed in a pit with strong ooze, with^bark between each two layers. In this they continue several months, and this last process is repeated several times till the hides are perfectly tanned : they are then dried and smoothed. 849. The leather called calf skins are tanned by a process somewhat different. These, after being washed in water, are put into pits with lime-water, as before mentioned, ■where they are taken up and put down again every third or fourth day, for a fortnight or throe weeks, in order to destroy the cuticle or epidermis of the skin. The hair is then easily scraped oft', and the grease and loose flesh being removed, they are put into a pit of water impregnated with pigeons' dung, called a (/rnmcr, forming an alkaline ley, which, in a week or ten days, soaks out the lime, grease, and saponaceous matter. During this period they are several times scraped with a crooked knife to work out the dirt. The skins are thus softened and prepared for the reception of the ooze, in which state they arc termed pelt. They are then put info a Ian pit with weak ooze ; and afu r remaining there a sufficient time, arc transferred to others with stronger ooze, until after six weeks they are put into very strong ooze with fresh bark, where they lie for several months till they are completely tanned. They are then dried as the others.