1014 DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. Book XVIIL BOOK XVIII. DETAILS KESPECTING VARIOUS ARTICLES OF DRESS. CHAP. L TAILOR, MANTUA MAKES, AND MILLINER. 5986. These are the persons to whose taste and judgment the fashion or cut of most dresses are intrusted, and therefore of whose importance it would be absurd to entertain any doubt. But we have already stated that we do not intend to touch upon the subject of costume, or the forms of dress, which, indeed, amongst us, are continually varying ; and the few observations we have to make upon the details of dress will be confined to those which concern convenience or economy. 5987. Less than a century ago, it was a usual custom for gentlemen to purchase their cloths and velvets, and to employ a tailor to make them into clothes ; and, at that time much more practical knowledge of the material must have been necessary than at present^ when a partial union has taken place between the trades of the tailor and the wooUen- draper. The present usual practice is to place confidence in the former, that he will employ only good materials. Putting the whole into his hands has, however, the bad elFect that it has become extremely difficult to judge of the correctness of his charges, or the extent of his profits. Without proposing to alter the system of executing this busi- ness, we may observe that some acquaintance with the manufacturer's qualities and prices of materials may form some check on exorbitant charges, and serve, at once, the cause of economy and morality. The same remarks may be applied to the dresses of ladies; but ladies have some advantage over men, in being more generally familiar with the details of dress ; nevertheless, where fashionable dress-makers are employed, there is likewise some reason for looking into the details of their accounts, and the qualities of the ma- terials. The subject of di'ess, therefore, with respect to economy, though not considered as of a high class, is deserving of attention, and ought not to be altogether neglected in our work. 5988. With respect to the tailor, the principal difiiculty is to find out those who can cause their clothes to fit well; and the cutting out of the cloth is one of the great secrets of their trade. Their frequent failure is chiefly owing to the unscientific manner in which their measures are taken, and their not knowing how to make the necessary allowances for the peculiar make of each individual. We would suggest, as an improve- ment, that they should learn to take measures upon various plaster casts or models of the human figure ; and although many may wonder of what use practical geometry can be to a tailor, yet we could easily point out the way in which he would be benefited by some knowledge of that, as well as of drawing and sculpture. We believe the superiority fre- quently perceived in France among those who are concerned in dress, is owing to the general taste for the fine arts, which has descended to a lower grade in the population than in this country. For those to whom the ordinary expense of clothes is not felt as an object worth much consideration, the most convenient way is that which is most usual, namely, to order them of a respectable tailor, leaving him to state the price, and having one agreed upon. This will generally ensui-e the best materials, and the most fashionable cut. But there are some other modes of proceeding where great economy in dress is aimed at. The cloth may be purchased of a respectable woollen-draper, who will generally recommend a tailor to make it up : the difficulty in this case is to get a tailor who can make it fashionable and a good fit, for the tailors who work in this manner are generally persons of inferior skill. A still cheaper way is to purchase clothes ready-made in the shops ; but this is one of the worst modes, as there is often some kind of imposition practised, besides the great uncertainty of finding clothes that fit well. Some tailors advertise to make a complete suit of clothes at a very low price, even for three guineas and a half, scarcely the price which others charge for a coat; and, although it can scarcely be-expected that these can be of the best quality, yet, by a little caution in choosing the cloth, and attending to the tailor's fitting, this is worth attending to where great economy is required in clothes for ordinary wear.