MATERIALS USED IN WASHING. 1075 ■3 Z 2 rroduced; and it -will likewise be evident -why soaps of different degi-ees of strength are iLiitable for different purposes. It may here be observed, that there are other detersive iibstances besides soap, as wood ashes, and other things containing alkali. Various clays, nd fullers' earth, have a similar effect, but produced in a different manner than it is from oap; by their absorbent quality, they attract the oily particles from the cloth, and cause aem to be more easily removed mechanically by rubbing in water, but no chemical union s > thus formed, as in the case of soap. CHAP. n. ^DESCRIPTION OP THE VARIOUS KINDS OF SOAP AND OTHER MATERIALS USED IN WASHING, AND OF THE INGREDIENTS OF WHICH THEY ARE MADE. 6425. It being useful that the nature of soap should be well understood by those who uuperintend the business of the wash-house, we shall first describe the alkalies employed in ils composition, and which ai'e occasionally used alone as detergents ; and we shall after- i yards explain in a general way the manufacture of the soaps. Sect. I. POTASH AND PEARLASH, ETC. 6426. Wc have stated that the ashes of burnt vegetables are often used for the same lurpnses as soap, in places where the latter substance is unknown or cannot be procured, ...ad that they owe their detergent property to the same cause as soap, namely, the alkali "vhich they contain. Their employment in this way was known to the ancient Egyptians, I Greeks, and Germans. Pliny informs us that the Gauls were the inventors of soap made Df tallow and wood ashes : a soap-boiler's shop has been discovered in Pompeii. In every t -egetable there is a little alkali, though always in a state of combination, and some have ■ I much larger proportion than others. When the rest of the vegetable substance has been lissipated in consequence of combustion, the alkali remains in the ashes, from which it has I )een termed fixed alkali, in opposition to ammonia, or the volatile alkali; it is also some- I imes tenned the vegetable alkali. Wood ashes are frequently employed in scouring paint I hat is very dirty, or for similar coarse purposes ; but it must be observed that it should be employed cautiously, since, if too much be used, it would take off the paint itself Good I; lousewives understand the value of this material that comes from heating the brick oven i n baking bread ; it is also employed by them in scouring the wood-work of the kitchen, ■IS floors, tables, &c.; likewise for cleaning the lids and insides of saucepans, for which it aanswers instead of potash. It is also very useful to soften hai'd water, and to make a iiey, for washing. 6427. The simplest and rudest preparation of potash is called ash balls in England, and weed ash in Ireland. It cannot be said to be properly an article of commerce, although* I considerable quantity is annually made by the peasantry of both countries, and disposed K)f among the neighbouring farmers and bleachers. The vegetable from which, in England ; and Scotland, this impure alkali is produced, is the common fern or brake {Pteris ac- "(uiUna, Linn.). Many rough and heathy districts are entirely covered by this plant, ^ ivhich, when it has attained its full growth, about the middle of July, is cut down, and, ; ifter being half-dried in the open air, is gathered into small heaps and kindled. The ' :ombustion proceeds slowly, being accompanied by a smothering smoke, and little or no t ; lame, till the whole is reduced to a reddish-grey ash ; this being carefully collected is - sprinkled with a little water, and then moulded by hand into balls three or four inches in ' liameter, which, when they have acquired a certain solidity by drying in the sun, are ? -eady for sale. In Ireland, thistles, docks, and weeds of all kinds are mixed with the 1 'ern, and the ashes are disposed of in their loose pulverulent state without any farther 1 jreparation. One thousand parts of fern, cut in August, and thoroughly dried, afford I :hirty-six parts of ashes, from which are obtained about four parts of alkali. The common 'weeds do not give so much. 6428. Hie crude potash of commerce, or black potash as it is also called, is universally ! procured from the combustion of wood, and therefore its preparation can be undertaken w ith success only in those uncleared countries where there are vast natural forests, and 'where from the badness of the roads, and imperfection of water communication, the value of timber is no more than that of the labour required to fell it. The only districts of iKurope in which any considerable quantity of potash is made are the mountainous forests of Germany, and the extensive woodland tracts of Poland and Russia. The British