PCS FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. CHAP. III. LlNJiN FABRICS FOU CLOTHING AND FURNITUBE. Sect. I. HISTORICAL AND GENERAI, REMARKS. 5698. The use of linen is exlremeli/ ancient: it was the national manufacture of the Egyptians in the time of the Pharaohs; and tlie prolific borders of the Nile furnished, from the remotest periods, as at the present time, abundance of the finest flax, the plant from which linen is prepared. The Egyptians exported their "linen yarn" and "fine linen" to the kingdom of Israel in the days of Solomon, and their " fine linen -n-ith broidered work " to Tyre, as also the same kind of cloth to Greece in the days of Hero- dotus. It appears from sacred and profane history, that linen continued to form the most esteemed clothing in Egypt till after the Christian era. riG99. Specimens of Egyptian linen, at least three thousand years old, are preserved in abundance in the numerous swaddling bands in which the mummies are wrapped up, and these show that the arts of spinning and weaving had advanced to great perfection ; for not only is the linen very similar in every respect to what is made at present, but some of it is of extreme fineness, resembling fine muslin or cambric, though evidently made of flax. It is also met with striped and dyed blue and yellow. The quantity of mummy- cloth found in the mummy pits and sepulchres of Egypt is so great, that it has even become an object of speculation in Egypt to employ it for making paper. 5700. From the Egyptians, the neighbouring nations, the Jews, Greeks, and Romans, learned the manufacture of this material, which was held in such high esteem, that it was used as raiment for royalty : but linen was among them extravagantly dear, being either imported, or made by slaves, few of whom were sufficiently skilful. 5701. In modern times, the manufacture of linen arrived at the greatest perfection in Flanders ; and it was not in common use in England till 1253, when it was introduced by the Flemings, woollen shirts having been worn before that time. In 1368, a company was formed in London for manufacturing it, and Lord Wentworth introduced it into Ireland in 1634. The inhabitants of the Netherlands, however, long excelled us in its fabrication; and the finest linens, called Holland, were imported. At present very little comes from abroad, the production of the Irish and Scotch looms being more than sufficient for home consumption. The linen trade of Great Britain has been more than doubled within the last forty-five years, owing gi-eatly to improvements in flax-spinning. The manufacture here may now be valued at eight millions sterling annually, employing 180,000 hands, young and old. The value of the export of linen and yarn may amount to a million and a half sterling. Sect. IL description of the flax plant, and preparation of flax. 5702. Flax (in Latin liiium, whence the word linen) is a plant of which there are several varieties; but the common flax plant {Linum usitatissimmn, fig. 784.) is an annual, having a slender, smooth, hollow stalk, rising to the height of about two feet; the stem then divides into several branches, which are terminated by handsome, blue, glossy, veined flowers, to which succeed roundish pods or seed-vessels, about the size of a pea; each of these contains ten little seeds full of meal and oily matter. The leaves are long, narrow, and sharp pointed. Flax is cultivated more or less in most countries of Europe, and succeeds best in a rich deep loamy soil, with a good deal of moisture ; but good crops are also produced upon stiff land. Flemish flax is the best; but vast quantities are also imported from the Baltic. Owing to the clieapness of foreign flax, little is grown in England. 5703. The filaments of flax employed for making thread are composed of the bark, or fibrous covering of the stalk. The plant is suffered to grow till its seeds are ripe, and is then plucked up by hand and laid in little bundles to dry. 5704. The first process in preparing flax is termed ripphng, and consists in forcing off the seed-vessels; this is done either by beating them off, or by nuUintr the plants through a kind of comb with iron teeth, set so close that the heads cannot pass, and are consequeiitly pulled off. To obtain the seeds, the pods or caps.Ues are broken by treading or threshing, and the whole is winnowed to drive off the chaffy Fig. 784.