i'hap. III. 103 ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. r roiii a nii.xture of camel's dung, mud and straw, or the stalks of any other plants : these ingredients being mixed as a paste, they coUect it into balls, -which are flattened upon the i^alls of their huts for drying in the sun, and made into circular cakes. The same uustom prevails in Persia and Arabia where wood is scarce. 454. Sea u-rack, or fucus, forms a tribe of marine plants, which, when cut off the rocks, !ind driven ashore by tides and storms, and dried, is used for fuel in some places on the sea voast where a better material is not to be had, or is too expensive, as in parts of Sweden. Sect. VII. LIQUID FUEL. 455. Tlie fluid inflammables, as fat and essential oils, bitumens, &c. so much used for jght, are occasionally employed also as fuel for giving heat; although, in this country, on ii ccount of their great price, they are used only on a small scale, and where a gentle or liight degree of heat is sutficient. 456. Alcohol, when pure and free from water, is as convenient and manageable a fuel ■ or producing a moderate and gentle heat as can be desired. It is burned in a lamp, and lis Hame is perfectly clear, of a pale blue colour, and free from any kind of soot: it can -•asily be made to burn slower or faster, and to produce less or more heat, by changing hhe size or number of the wicks upon which it burns; for as long as these are fed with npirit in a proper manner they continue to yield flame of precisely the same strength. iThe cotton, or other materials of which the wick is composed, is not scorched or con- aiumed in the least, because the spirit in which it is constantly soaked is incapable of hiecoming hotter than 174°, as above that temperature it boils and is evaporated; and ihhat heat is not sufficient to inflame the wick. It is the vapour only that rises and is in- iliamed : the outer parts of the flame are the hottest, being most remote from the wick, and where only the combustion is going on, in consequence of communication and contact with the air. At the same time, as the alcohol is totally volatile, it does not leave any tifixed matter, which, by being accumulated on the wick, might render it foul and fill up iiits pores. The wick, therefore, continues to ijnbibe the spirit as freely, after some time, aas it did at the first. These tiualities, however, belong only to a spirit that is pure. If it bbe weak, and contain water, the water, being less volatile than the spirit, does not evaporate 560 fast from the wick as the more spirituous part ; and the wick becomes, after some litime, so much soaked with water, that it does not imbibe the spirit properly: hence the tiflame becomes weaker, and at last is extinguished, the remains of the spirit having too nmuch water to burn. Were it not for the expense, therefore, we should always use pure lalcohol: but common spirit of wine is generally employed, and is found extremely useful ffor table tea-kettles, apparatus for making coffee, heating a little water, and a variety i:of similar purposes. The products of the combustion are only carbonic acid and water ; 3and owing to the combination with oxygen, the weight of the water produced, but which lidissolves in the air, exceeds that of the alcohol consumed. Spirit of wine is probably the most portable kind of fuel; and was employed in this iway by Sir Edward (then Captjiin) Parry in hi^xpedition undertaken with a view to I reach the North Pole. His account of it nms thus : " Our fuel consisted of spirits of 1 wine, of which two pints formed our daily allowance, the cocoa being cooked in an iron 1 boiler over a shallow iron lamp, with seven wicks ; a simple apparatus, which answered (our purpose remarkably well. We usually found one pint of the spirits of wine sufficient I for preparing our breakfast, that is for heating twenty-eight pints of water, though it ; always commenced from the temperature of 32°. If the weather was fair and calm, I that quantity of fuel brought it to the boiling point in about an hour and a quarter : but ■ more generally the wicks began to go out before it had reached 200°. This, however, made a very comfortable meal to i)ersons situated as we were." Parry's Voyage. 457. Fat, oil, or tallow, gives a higher temperature than spirits of wine, but a common wick produces much smoke and soot. A cluster of several small wicks somewhat diminishes the evil. A lamp of this kind, and of considerable size, is occasionally employed in portable apparatus for cooking; and, when confined, the heat is sufficient to dress meat in various ways. The Greenlanders and Esquimaux, in Baffin's Bay, have no other fire or method of producing heat than by means of lamps with fish oil, and wicks of moss. Over such lamps their cooking vessel of potstone is suspended, containing the flesh of deer, seals, or fish. By employing an Argand's lamp the smoke is consumed, and chemists find this to be a very convenient method of applying a considerable degree of heat in small distillations and other processes. In this case the chimney of the lamp is made of copper, instead of glass. 458. Oil of turpentine mixed with water and alcohol has been tried witli success for burning in a lamp for the purpose of giving light and heat. An apparatus for this pur- pose was contrived by Mr. Morey in the United States, and mentioned favourably in Silliman's Journal. The mixture is put into a tin cylinder, which is heated by means of 11 4