13 iChai'. 111. ON THE VARIOUS STYLES OF ARCHITECTURE. !sarae pediment and dome, are frequently made to form prominent features in a mansion, : notwithstanding their unfitness for such a purpose. In some cases even the skulls, I patera;, and sacrificial instruments, have been sculptured upon the fronts of private ! houses, in defiance of all historical association; and it is unfortunate for the art, that 1 great absurdities have become so commou, and the public is so familiarised with them, ; that it would require no little courage to point them out as errors. Some have no other '. idea of Grecian or Roman architecture, than the modern mansions of England a century . ago, as represented mjigs. 18. and 19., or the still more recent ones of Portland Place and the 1 Regent's Park ; but we wish to state, that these were merely the attempts to adapt some I portion of this style to modern English habits and customs, — attempts often very unsuc- icessful, and sometimes grossly erroneous, or even puerile. Grecian architecture, in ' which we may, according to custom, include Roman, as having been in some degree 1 borrowed from it, was eminently beautiful in the hands of the ancients ; and instead of I the monotony and sameness which are justly complained of in its modem dress, among I them possessed considerable variety. 38. What is termed modern Grecian architecture, though not strictly Greek, is ad- 1 mirably suited to our present domestic habits, and is considered, by the greater number of ' well-educated architects and amateurs, as excelling every other style in the most im- ) portant points ; it is likewise more easily connected with the arts of painting and sculp- I ture than any other. But it can be treated with great success only by the skilful and I even learned artist, by whom the very perfection of antique architecture, and the paucity 1 of standard examples, are felt as a source of difficulty that may cause many to shi-ink from i it, while they fearlessly attempt the Elizabethan style, in which a certain coarseness of i idea may pass. But the frequent failure of those who attempt to design in the classic 1 manner is no proof of its inferiority; and were this the place to point them outfit would I not be difficult to mention several of the causes of frequent failure. 39. Gothic architecture, in its various stages, has for some time been a rival to Grecian, I even for domestic purposes. Observing how admirably it is adapted to ecclesiastical edifices, i it has been supposed that it must be equally well suited for mansions to dwell in. But this, i according to the principle we have laid down, respecting the fonii and character agreeing • with the destination, does not necessarily follow. Accordingly, there are a great many diffi- I culties in adapting this style to ordinary dwelling-bouses under our present circumstances. It is but of late that it has been so well studied, that a marked difference has been perceived I between the style employed formerly in buildings for ecclesiastical and for domestic pur- I poses; indeed, there are few remains of the latter, except what belong to monastic, col- 1 legiate, or military structures ; the private houses of our ancestors, even as low down : as the reign of Queen Elizabeth, being chiefly wood and plaster; and the ancient timber 1 houses, with their carved gables, high and often thatched roofs, casements, &c., though : much admired as picturesque by some persons, have been imitated chiefly in small - houses affectedly styled " cottages." It became, therefore, requisite, in designing a ' large modern house in the Gothic style, to look to more considerable examples. Some borrowed their ideas from ancient ecclesiastical architecture; and among the first attempts I the parts were taken from churches, and even cathedrals : prinnacles, buttresses, ornamented ' battlements, pointed windows with stained glass, &c., were the sort of decorations that, it was imagined, would mark a Gothic mansion. It was soon found, however, that what was beautiful on a great scale, became only ridiculous when imitated in miniature; and when the architecture of our ancestors was studied with more care, it was likewise dis- ■ covered, that a profound knowledge of it was necessary, and even that it was essential that architects should be acquainted, not only with the difference between ecclesiastical ; and civil architecture, but with the styles of diS'erent periods ; that, in short, they should be antiquaries as well as architects. It may not be necessary here to examine what as- ; sociation of ideas has originated the wish in some persons to inhabit a " castle," or an " abbey ;" but certain it is that such imitations have seldom succeeded, and are not to be recommended in modern domestic dwellings. The situation best suited for a castle is ■ seldom so for a domestic residence; nor is the low site which will do well for an ordinary • dwelling characteristic of a place for defence; while most of those characters which render such remains of antiquity interesting are not attainable in a private house. The imitation of an abbey has not been more fortunate; and although the monastic character may appear more easy to preserve, still there arc numerous circumstances that render the style of religious buildings, however excellent in the originals, unfit to be imitated in modern houses. The rich and florid style of ornament, so much admired in ancient Gothic edifices of the latest period, is generally too expensive for private individuals ; and a plain Gothic style demands a certain magnitude to give it importance. Even when the rich kind of Gothic architecture is well understood, it is found extremely difficult, and almost impracticable, to preserve its true character in a modern house, except hy a con- siderable sacrifice of simplicity in the interior distribution, and the introduction of much that adds nothing to convenience or use, but often materially interferes with them,