CUAP. IV. FOREIGN WINES. 019 class, both dry and sweet, red and white. Some is sent to the United States. Peru pro- duces delicious grapes; and wine is manufactured in some places, which by proper management might be excellent. That of Pasco is the best, where the muscatel grape excels that of old Spain. 3491. To make out a mere list of the numerous wines made in the various countries of the world would be almost impossible. In the following table are placed the most re- markable of those which are imported into this country ; and a few perhaps only known at present by name. French Wines. Red Wines. Is/ class. Uomanee Cont^ Romance St. Vivant Clos Vaugeot Chambertin Richebourg La Tache St. George Clos de Tart "| St. Jean Le Perrierc Mont Uachet jMuscigny J Lafitte La Latnur Chateiiux Mar gaux Iluut Brion Burgun- dies Bor- deaux wines 2rf class. Verzy St. Thierry Vosne Red Hermitage Cote Botie Roussillon Pomard 3d class. Hautvilliers Mareuil I'leury T BLigny ( B Santenay I Clarion J Crozes Gervaut Cliateauncuf. urgundies W/iile Wines. \si class. Mont Rachet Hermitage Rivesaltes St. Bris Rental Saiiterne Barsac Sillcry Ay Marceuil Dizy Hautvilliers Pierry Gliam- " pagne J 2d class. Menil 1 Oger > Champagne Cramaut J 3d class. A^aumorillon Grenouille Chablis Valmare Vandesir Pouilly Etoile Froutignan LuneL Wines of the Rhine and Moselle — Hoc/is. Schloss Johannisberger Joliannisberger Reinberger Rudesheim Laubenheimer K-Esterich Rhine. Niersteiner CEstricher Zornheimer Hockheinier Graefenberger Oppenheimer Vaskenheimer Roth Konigsbach Ungstein. Wines of Portugal. Red or Ports. Veto de Regna Abasas Villarinho des Tricres Gorvaens Hormida. tMiile Wines. C'arcavellos or Lisbon Bucelias Setuval. Wines of Madeira. Malmsey Madeira Sercial Tinto. ilosclle. Br.iuncnberger Wehlin Scharzberger Piesport Graach Reinsport. Zettingen Wines of Italy and Sicili/. Lachryma Christi ,\leatico licggio Mazara Ovieto Marsala. Asti Sdbsect. 9. — On mi.ring Foreign Wines in the Manufacture, and particidarly with Brandy. 3492. Wines of the first quality, whose principal merit consists in the bouquet, are nnever mixed with any other, but each variety is preserved as much as possible in its imatural pure state, being marked according to the year of the vintage ; and the wines of (•certain favourable years are much more highly esteemed than others. But the second- rrate produce of certain vintages in unfavourable seasons, and of particular vineyards in ,iall seasons, require to be mixed with other wines to correct some bad quality or defect. IThese mixtures are made by the wine-growers or the foreign merchants, and are often 'idone very judiciously by persons who have great skill in thus improving the wines; tthese are not, therefore, considered as adulterations, because the wines which are added lare equally expensive with the others. Thus to weak wines are often added those of a iimore generous nature ; and certain wines will not keep sufficiently long without being nmixed with others. They ai'e also mixed to suit the taste of diflerent markets ; thus, wine prepared for Paris is different from that made up for London, and those for Russia nor Germany require a peculiar treatment. It is said, however, that wines consumed in l-Francc are less mixed than such as are sent to other countries, probably because people Ikhere are more accustomed to the taste of pure wines ; and it is impossible by any mixing lf;o produce the qualities of the first growths. Respectable wine-growers or dealers never (sell mixed fbr pure unmixed wines, as the former arc always inferior in price. No rrules can be given for mixing the produce of different vintages or vineyards with each *ther, as it must depend upon so many variable circumstances; the taste alone, and ex- loerience, can indicate the state of tlie wine, and the quality and (juantity of that which 11 is proper to add, and this can only be done properly by persons much accustomed to lihis business.