Chap. II. WOOLLEN FABRICS FOR CLOTHING, ETC. 957 it is shed, if left to itself, nearly all at once at a particular period, leaving the-animal covered with a short coat of young wool. To prevent this, and consequently the loss of the wool, this is shorn off when it has come to its full growth, and before it detaches itself naturally; the whole together constituting -what is called a fleece. The time for sheep-shearing is regulated by the climate and the weather. In the southern parts of England it is generally about the middle of June. If sheep are shorn in cold weather, they suffer considerably. The wool shorn from the living animal is called fleece wool, and is superior to that ■which is pulled off from the slaughtered sheep by the fellmonger, and which is termed skin tvool or pelt wool: this is distinguished by its being harsher, weaker, and less capable of taking a good dye. The quantity of the latter in a country like England, where so much animal food is consumed, is very considerable. It is frequently too short to be worked by itself, and is then mixed in with longer wools. The process by -which the wool is separated from the skins has a tendency to make it hard, and to destroy or injure its felting or milling property; on which account short skin-wools are seldom used for the manu- facture of cloth, but more generally for flannels, serges, and those kinds of goods which require little or no milling ; on this account its value is less than that of fleece wool. The longer kinds of felt wool are used for hosiery yarns, or for hand yarn for the warps of serges and other goods having a warp of combed and a woof of carded wool. 5622. The length of the fibre of wool constitutes an important distinctive character. Sheep's wool is divided by manufacturers into two sorts, long or combing wool, and short or clothing wool; and these differ from each other materially in the uses to which they are applied. It is usual to speak of the length of the staple of wool. By the staple is meant the separate locks into which the wool naturally divides on the skin, each lock consisting of a certain number of fibres which, collectively, are called the staple. 5623. Long or combing wool may vary in length from three to eight or ten inches : it is prepared on a comb with long steel teeth, worked either by hand, or by machinery, which open the fibres and arrange them longitudinally, like those of flax: thread is therefore spun from this wool in the same manner as from flax, but the fabrics made of it are not fit to be subjected to the process of felting. The longest kinds of wool are manufactured into loorsted or hand yarns, employed in worsted pieces, such as waistcoats, carpets, bombazines, crapes, poplins, and the finer kinds of worsted goods. The shorter combing wools are principally used for hosiery, and are spun into soft worsted yarn. 5624. Short-stapled wool is the only kind employed for making cloth, hence it is some- times called clothing wool; it varies in length from three to four inches ; if longer, it requires to be cut or broken to render it fit for carding and spinning into woollen yarn, and the subsequent operation of felting. This wool is always carded upon an instrument with fine short teeth, by which the fibres are opened and spread in every direction. The principal qualities required in clothing wools are, the regular fineness of the hair or pile, its softness and tendency to felt, the soundness of the staple, and the whiteness of its colour. 5625. TTie fineness of the fibre of wool has ever been considered as an important quality since the manufacture of cloth has been so much improved. The degree of fineness may be ascertained by the microscope : the thickness of a hair of the best Spanish and Saxon wool is not more than fi^ih of an inch, and that of the finest native English is from yi^jths to -ninths. But the comparative fineness is sufiiciently estimated by the eye of the wool- sorter or -wool-dealer, who, by long habit, can discern minute differences which are quite imperceptible to common observers, and scarcely appreciable by the microscope ; a dif- ference in the size of the fibres too minute to be noticed by persons not experienced may occasion a difference of forty per cent., or more, in the value of the wool. Fine wool was formerly valued because a finer thread could be spun from it, and a thinner fabric made than from the coarser wools; but since recent improvements in machine spinning have been introduced, it has been found practicable to spin coarse wools to the same length as the finer wools were formerly spun to. It is well known, however, to cloth manufacturers, that whatever be the fineness of the yam, unless the wool also be fine, it is impossible to make a fine, compact, and even cloth, in which the thread shall be covered with a thick soft pile ; nor would a thin cloth made from coarse wool have the same durability or appearance as one from fine wool of equal weight per yard. 5620. T/ie finest of all wools is that from the goat of Thibet, of which the exquisite Cashmere shawls are made ; the finest of European wools are from the Spanish Merino breed, to which the best Saxon sheep belong. For coarse goods, indeed, such as blankets, carpets, and cloth.s called duffields raised with a hairy pile, a considerable degree of hardness or elasticity of the fibre is an advantage ; but in all the finer articles of the woollen or worsted manufacture, the fineness and softness are of great value. In some fleeces from the fine-wooUed sheep of England, there is sometimes an intermixture of coarse hairs, which proves very detrimental to the wool. In the Merino and Saxon