Chap. XYII. 313 ON PLATE. detail of the design, are struck by a haiiimev and little steel piinclies ; and if any parts are required to be raised, they are struck up from the inside. By this simple mechanism, the various parts of figures, foliage, landscape, &c., are represented with the greatest exact- ness. It is said, however, that this art has declined, or, at least, that few can be met with at present in this country who excel in it. 1385. Gold is so soft a metal, that it is scarcely ever used in its purest state, from its lia- bility to wear ; it is therefore hardened a little by an alloy with other metals. But this alloy would be carried to excess, were every one permitted to add as much as he pleased, and it would then be very difficult to determine the actual value of what was called gold ; the quantity of alloy is therefore restricted by law. 1386. Goldsmiths usually indicate the purity of gold in the following manner. They sup- pose each article divided into twenty-four parts, which they call cara ts; and if it is pure gold, they say it is gold of twenty-four carats ; but if there is any alloy, then this is de- ducted from the whole. Thus, if one twenty-fourth of alloy is added to twenty-three parts of gold, they call the mixture gold of twenty-three carats ; if this mixture contain four parts inferior metal, it will be gold of twenty carats ; if it contain six, it is of eighteen carats fine. 1387. Plate is not legally sold as gold or silver, except it be of standard purity; and to ascertain this, it is examined by the assay master of the Goldsmiths' Company, whose business it is to test aU works in the precious metals, that the public may not be de- frauded. If they are found to be sufficiently pure, they are stamped with the proper mark. The purity of gold may be tried by chemical analysis, but a shorter method is resorted to for the purpose. It is sometimes determined by the touch-stone, which is a black flinty slate. This is founded upon the fact, that a mark made upon this stone, by rubbing a metal upon it, has a colour peculiar to that metal; and the colour of the mark made by pure gold is ditFerent from that made by any of its alloys. Pieces of pure gold are kept, called touch needles; and others are likewise kept made of alloys in various proportions, and by comparing the colour of the marks made by them, and by those of any article to be examined, its degree of purity is determined. 1388. In purchasing gold articles of any kind, therefore, it is necessary to see that it hears the stamp of the Goldsmiths' Company. With respect to many ornaments made and sold by jewellers without the proper stamp, and called gold, they contain only a portion of that precious metal, having as much alloy as jewellers can possibly add without losing the appearance of gold ; and Je!oe//«rs'yo/J, as this is called, looks very well when new, but frequently soon tai-nishes, which real gold never does. The colour of pure gold is given to this alloy by a certain process, called by the jewellers colouring, by which, after the articles are manufactured, the base metals are destroyed at the surface by an acid, and the gold alone is visible : when this superficial gold wears olF, as it will in a little time, the articles now tarnished may undergo the process of colouring a second time, by which the gold colour is restored; and even a third time, if the thickness of the article permits the action of the acid by which the restoration is effected, which is not always the case with ornaments such as chains, ear-rings, &c. Dr. Macculloch states that the process of re- colouring may be effected by any pei'son without going to the goldsmith ; the method is, boiling the article in a solution of pure ammonia instead of the acid the jewellers use. It is to be observed, that such articles as are made only of jewellers' gold, and not stamped by the assay master, not being of standard purity, are of course always of inferior value to those of the mint standard, or that of gold coin, wfiich has only an alloy of two parts in twenty-four, whereas jewellers' gold has an alloy of from that to six parts in twenty- fbur. 1389. 77ie gilding of metals is effected in various ways. Iron is gilt by polishing its surface, and then heating it till it has acquired a blue colour. When this is done, leaf gold is applied, slightly burnished down, and exposed to a gentle fire, after which it is burnished again. Copper or brass may be gilt in the same manner. Gilding metals by amalgamation is effected by forming the gold into a paste, or amalgam, with mercury, and is chiefly employed for gilding silver, copper, or brass. The metal being well cleaned is dipt into the amalgam, or spread over with it, when a quantity will adhere to the sur- face. The metal is then exposed to the heat of a furnace, which volatilises the mercury, leaving the gold adhering ; this is afterwards burnished. In this way buttons and similar articles arc gilt. Ornamental figures may also be delineated in gold upon steel by a very ingenious pro- cess, by means of ether. Gold is dissolved in nitro-muriatic acid, and a quantity of ether is added, and the mixture shaken. The ether will then take the gold from the acid, and an ethereal solution of gold will be produced, which is separated, and applied to the sur- face of the steel by a camel's hair pencil ; the ether will evaporate, leaving the gold on the surface of the steel. The metal is then heated, and the gold burnished. In this way sword blades are ornamented. Instead of ether the essential oils nuiy be used. 1390. Making gilt trinkets is now brought to such perfection, particularly at Birmingham,