ON THE MAKING OF CYDER. 651 ('hap. v. To prevent altogether this base mode of swindling is probably impossible j but by some stringent measures it might, no doubt, be restrained. It is most important, however, that tlie public should understand the imposition practised upon them, for the remedy is in their own hands. Sect. VI. COOPERING. 3l!64. B.irrels, casks, tubs, &c. of various kinds, are articles of furniture made by the cooper; and although we have mentioned these in various places incidentally, a few words may not be useless on the subject of cooperage gener.iUy, that our readers may know how to apply to the proper person. 3fiG5. In some places a cooper is expected to make all these articles; but in this country, in general, the workmen are brouglit up to confine themselves to a particular branch of the business ; and we have accord- ingly butt coopers, rundlet coopers, dry coopers, white coopers, and wine coopers. Butt coopers are employed ill making and repairing puncheons, hogsheads, and large casks for breweries and distilleries. Kundlet coopers confine themselves to the manufacture of sm.ill casks to hold the products of distilleries, and for other purposes, from one-gallon casks to those which contain twenty gallons. Dry coopers manufacture sugar hogsheads, and casks of every kind for holding dry goods, such as clothing for the army, and all kinds of military and naval stores ; as these do not require to be water-tight, they are not so well executed as the work of butt and rundlet coopers, and their price is proportionately less. White coopers make all articles of this kind in domestic use, such as small brewing vessels, washing tubs, churns, pails, &c., and they frequently add Coarse turnery to their business ; they use both iron and wooden hoops, the latter of ash, peeled, and white. In general, they keep shops, and expose their articles for sale. 366G. Wine coopers are employed in making and repairing every kind of wooden vessel used for holding wine, as butts, casks, &c.; but they are also the proper persons to remove and deposit wine and spirits, .ts they can effect this with greater safety than other persons, from being better acquainted with the strength of the vessels, and the proper way of moving them about. They are also employed in bottling and packing wines and spirits, and have often considerable knowledge of the general management of wines. Large backs, and vats for breweries, require often to be of vast strength to support them, and likewise the aid of the carpenter, and even the engineer. The makers of these, and of coolers, keep materials better fitted for the purpose than other coopers. 3667. The cooper works with few tools, and it is surprising to see the dexterity with which he handles' these few. With .m axe, an adze, a saw, two or three spoke staves, a large plane, and a bench made of stout plauk placed upon four feet, he goes through almost all his work. The staves of the vessels manufactured by the cooper are made chiefly of oak, and are imported cut of the proper lengths from the Baltic, or from Canada; the former, however, arc tlie best. The edges are curved t)y the cooper to produce the bellying forms of casks. The heads and bottoms are of several pieces, put together by pegs called dowells, and are fixed in by inserting them in a groove in the staves, the projecting piece of the latter being named the chime. The staves themselves are held together by hoops, which vary according to the nature of the vessels ; the strongest are of iron ; but foreign casks are seldom bound by iron, and this metal is particularly avoided in the wine countries. In stout hoops, as those of butts, iron is the best; but when the staves are thin, the rust of iron destroys the wood. Previously to putting on the iron hoops the staves are dried by a fire or in kilns, to cause them to shrink, that when they expand by moisture the hoops may be tight. 3668. Very great improvements have been made in this branch of business, through cutting out the staves by circular saws which perform the work with great expedition and accuracy. This was first practised by Mr. George Smart, in making the small casks called canteens, in which soldiers carry their bever.ige. The accuracy with which the various pieces were sawed out was such that there was no occasion to plane the edges to render them water-tight. It is worth mentioning, that the casks in which butter comes from Holland are very well made; .md as they may be purchased at tlie butter shops, when empty, at from sixpence to tenpeuce each, they are cheap and convenieut for many domestic purposes. CHAP. V. ON THE MAIQNG OF CYDEK, PERRY, AND MEAD. Sect. I. CYDER. 3669. Cyder is a fermented liquor prepared from the juice of apples: and although it is not usually reckoned among the wines, yet it belongs to that class of beverages as much as those which are made from currants, gooseberries, or other fruits. 3670. We learn from Pliny that both cyder and perry were made by the Romans in Italy. The term cyder, cidre in French, is derived from the Latin sicera; a general name for such fermented liquors as were not the produce of the grape. It was made by the Moors of Spain, from whom it was introduced into Normandy, and afterwards into England. The apples and cyder of Normandy are still reckoned of superior quality, and cyder is prepared there abundantly, being the common beverage, as it is in Hereford- shire, Devonshire, and the neighbpuring counties of England, where it has acquired the highest excellence. In Book VII. Chap. IX ." On Fruits," we gave a description of the apple: we shall here add some particulars connected with its use in making cyder. 3671. Apple trees are propagated by seeds, or by ingrafting the .scions or shoots of such trees as are valuable for their fruit on stocks or trees raised from seed. The soil which ia Herefordshire is considered the best adapted to most kinds of apples is a deep rich loam, when under the culture of the plough ; on this the trees grow wild with great luxuriance, and produce the richest fruit. Some trees, however, the golden pippin in particular, form