Chap. IV. FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES WITHOUT PERCHES. 1115 was, as the French name implies, a narrow coach, in -which only two persons could sit face' to face. The advantage of it was, that on account of its small size the passengers could not be jolted against each other, and being confined, it was warmer than larger carriages. . . 6644. The sulky was a name given to a carriage used formerly, built light, with one seat, in the form of a chariot, but like the vis-a-vis, with the seat so contracted that one person only could sit on it: and it was so called from the proprietor's desire of riding alone. « CHAP. IV. FOTIR-WHEELED CARRIAGES WITHOUT PERCHES. 6645. Within these few years a numerous class of carriages has appeared without perches, having the driver's seat attached to the body, which rests upon the axles, with elliptic springs intervening, see fig. 863. : they are usually termed " elliptic spring car- riages." One material advantage attending the omission of the perch is, that the body can be brought near to the ground, thus lowering the centre of gravity of the vehicle, and rendering it safer, and less liable to be overset: it also affords greater convenience of in- gress and egress. These carriages are particularly suited to the infirm, and ladies who find it difficult to mount the high steps of an ordinary coach. They are also less expensive to build, and being lighter than perch carriages, do not require such strong horses ; but they are not quite so easy for the rider as perch carriages with suspension braces and C springs, although the improvement of the roads by macadamizing has rendered them little inferior when the springs are weU made. By comparing the construction of the fore part of the carriage of one of these in fig. 863. with that of perch carriages in fig. 846., the difference will be readily perceived. In the elliptic spring carriage, the fore transom, a b, instead of resting upon a fore axletree bed, as in fig. 846., bears upon the elliptic springs c and d; and these rest upon the iron axle, c/, without any bed of wood. The bar g h is fixed to the bottom of the body of the car- riage, and a bolt similar to the perch bolt passes through this bar and the fore transom, a b, on which the carriage turns, the wheel plate and futchels being the same as in the perch carriage, g h therefore belongs to the upper, and a 6 to the under carriage, the principle of turning being the same in the carriages without perches as in those which have them. These four-wheeled carriages on elliptic springs, and without perches, are now so numerous that it is impossible to go into the streets of any of our principal cities or towns without seeing some of them; and they are best examined in the objects them- selves after the clue which has just been given. 6646. It has been stated that when the wheel of a carriage comes in contact with any impediment, it is most essential that the whole of the impetus or momentum which the carriage has already obtained in moving should be brought into full action; and conse- quently that no elasticity should intervene between the wheel and the load in the direction