Chap. III. 1161 CONSTRUCTION OF THE DAIRY-HOUSE. foot. The brackets to support them may also be of slate four inches deep and two inches thick, fixed edgeways, with one end let into the wall, or they may be of iron. A large table in the centre will be found useful. 6885. Ventilation will be best obtained by means of an aperture in the roof, through which a funnel may be carried from the milk-room, having a regulator. 6886. A cmnplete dairy should consist of several apartments, depending upon whether butter only, or both butter and cheese are to be made. It should have an apartment to keep the milk in while it is throwing up the cream, a room to serve as a dairy- scullery, and a third for churning: cheese may be made, perhaps, in the last, but if there is much of it, or if more convenience be desirable, a fourth room may be devoted to cheese-making. 6887. Abundance of good water is essential to a dairy: if a well can be had adjoining, it will be very desirable ; if not, there should be a cistern conveniently placed, and well supplied ; likewise proper drains should be made for carrying off the water. 6888. A dairy for a private family may be constructed according to the plan, fg. 900. a, is the milk-room; b, the dairy-scullery ^■^.900, with a copper fixed in the corner, and a pump communicating with a well, or having a cistern for water ; the outer door opens into a covered place to hold the vessels that are drying, c, is the room for churning butter, and also for making cheese, having its copper, cheese-press, various vessels, shelves, &c. These two rooms are separated by passages froni the milk-room, d, e, which is thus kept more cool and quiet, the entrance being into one of the passages without going into either of these rooms. Space may be found in the ends of these passages for keeping butter, which will be then accessible without going into any of the rooms; and a room for keeping cheese at a distance from the butter may be placed over that for making it. Before and behind the milk-room may be verandas efiectuaUy to screen the walls from the sun, as well as for ornament. The plan is the only thing necessary to be given here, for the elevation may be of various designs, according to the taste of the architect or builder. Nor will it be necessary to give plans for a dairy on a smaller scale, or a more extensive one which may require the talents of an architectural designer. It is sufficient if we point out the principles upon which they should be constructed. 6889. A dairy-room is sometimes an elegandy ornamented apartment, and much taste has been employed in fitting them up, with a fountain playing up in the centre which has the effect of keeping the air cool. A "thermometer should be kept in the room, and the temperature should range from 48° to 55°; if it falls too low, the heat should be raised by some artificial means. When there is much mUk, its warmth as just drawn from the cows will raise the temperature a little. It has been suggested by Mr. Young, that there should be a trough passing through the wall of the dairy of sufficient dimensions to admit of pouring the mUk from the pails with safety, having a hair-sieve so placed as that the whole of the milk may pass through it before being conveyed to the cooling pans, as by this simple contrivance, the necessity of boys or others with dirty shoes entering the dairy-house is prevented. 6890. The utensils of the dairy are pails for milking into; sieves of hair-cloth for passing the milk through to free it from hairs or other impurities, sometimes silver wire cloth is used for this purpose; milk dishes, or coolers for holding the milk whUe it is throwing up its cream ; a cream knife of ivory for separating, and dishes of marble or of tin for removing the cream, with holes in the bottom to let the milk run off; bowls or barrels for holding it; chums for making butter; scales, butter-prints, and boards for weighing, measuring, and ornamenting it; tubs for hot and cold water for washing the various vessels, and a portable rack for drying them on in the open air. 6891. Milk coolers are the shallow vessels to put the milk in after it is drawn from the cow, that the cream may be thrown up. They are generally made of wood, and maple tree is preferred from its lightness and cleanliness of appearance ; the best milk-pails are made of the same. The only objection to wood is the great trouble that is required to keep it perfectly clean, and it wears rough. Metals have been tried, as lead and zinc; but these, the former in particular, being poisonous when dissolved, as they are apt to be when the milk becomes acid, should be banished from the dairy. It has been said that zinc will cause the milk to throw up more cream, but this is an error. Tin plate is safe, but rusts except it be kept very dry, and cast-iron tinned inside is heavy though durable. The brittleness of earthenware in general is an objection ; and common ware, being covered with a glaze in which lead forms an ingredient, is thought to be improper, since the milk, when it becomes acid, may act upon the lead in the glaze. Earthenware coolers