Book V. 298 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. the cotmnencement of fusion, and give the semi-transparency. As each manufacturer keeps secret the nature and proportions of the materials he emijloys, each person having some particular composition which he considers sujjerior to every otlier, it is not easy to speak decidedly with respect to the complete practice in our potteries. The manufac- turers of porcelain in France are less reserved ; and we have puhlished descriptions of their processes. Generally five-tenths of the whole mass consists of kaolin, which they procure from Limoges. Some employ also a certain proportion of sulphate of baryta, and olher substances. Private mauulacturers of porcelain in Paris, of which there are manj', avoid the trouble of preparing the materials, by purchasing them in a state of readi- ness from establishments at. Limoges, where the porcelain earth is found : and the price of tlie prepared material costs in Paris only three sous per pound, which gives them a great advantage over our potters. 1318. The Icadiny principles observed in the usual processes for making porcelain in this country do not ditfer essentially from what we have already described when treating of the Stailbrdshire ware. The materials are vei'y finely ground, mixed separately with water, to the consistence of cream, and then joined in the proper proportion. This is exposed to heat and evaporation, and made into a paste that is, when properly tempered, formed into circular vessels on the wheel, technically called " throwing ;" and the facility with which the potter, by means of his wheel, forms the plastic clay into vessels of various shapes, by using merely his hands, excites the admii'atlon of visitors. A great deal of care is bestowed upon the finishing the raw porcelain in the lathe after coming from the wheel, and likewise in putting on handles, spouts, and raised ornaments. The pieces are then care- fully dried, and are now ready for the firing. For this they are placed in deep boxes, made of baked fire-clay, called seggars, which admit the heat of the furnace, but protect the ware against any accidents. The process of baking generally lasts about from forty- eight to fifty hours, and great attention is paid to the degree of heat, by placing in the kiln trial pieces made of clay. These are taken out from time to time to ascertain whether the ware is baked enough. The porcelain is now white and in the state of biscuit, which is very like white sugar. In many cases the process stops here : and in this way are made those exquisitely delicate pieces of fruit, iJowers, and other ornamental works of white biscuit, for which the Derby works are so famous. All the soft porcelain as well as common earthenware is so porous in this state as to be permeable to water, and consequently a vitreous glaze is necessary to fill up the pores when vessels are made. The glazes for soft porcelain are, as we have stated, mixtures of some earthy substance, such as flint or clay, or both combined, together with some vitriable metallic oxide, in order to give the necessary fusibility. The oxide of lead is generally employed for this purpose with some addition of oxide of tin or arsenic to produce a certain degree of opacity. In the best hard porcelain, such as that of China, Dresden, or Scvi-es, the glaze does not contain lead or any metallic oxide, but consists of undecomposed felspar alone, ground to a fine powder, which is fusible in an intense heat, from the potash which it con- tains naturally. Pure undecomposed felspar fit for the glaze of porcelain is rare in England, though abundant in some parts of the world. As it is the potash which is sup- posed to communicate to felspar its fusible property, it might be thought that this alkali added to any earth, as calcined flint or pipe-clay, would produce a perfectly good glaze : but, although these materials will form a glaze that is sometimes employed, yet such glazes crack all over, particularly when hot water is applied. The oxide of lead forms a glaze that is not liable to this objection, but it is to another, that of making a glaze so soft as to be easily detached. The porcelain, after having been dipped in the material for glazing, is now subjected to a second firing, being placed, as before, in seggars ; and the heat employed is that which is just sufficient to melt the glaze and cause it to vitrify. It is then ready for the painting and gilding. The different colours are produced by metallic oxides, which are bodies that in general are capable of assuming a vitreous form with various degrees of facility; but they require to be accompanied by a certain vehicle, called a flux, which has the effect of rendering the whole more fusible than the first, or proper glazing, already described. This flux varies according to circumstances, but oxide of lead, borax, ground glass, and nitre, are substances employed. The colours are mixed up with oil of lavender in laying them on. The manner of painting the best porcelain with a variety of colours is much the same as painting in enamel; and frequently the work is highly finished like miniatures. When the painting is finished, the oil evaporates and leaves the colours dry and ready to be burnt in by a third firing in the enamel kiln, which fixes and brings out the colour by the fusion of the vitreous colouring matter. \"ery great skill is reqiiired where many colours are employed ; but in ordinary china, the colours on one piece are but few. It frequently happens, that a piece of porcelain has to go into the enamel kiln four or five times when a great variety of colours are contained in the painting. 1319. Of late the use of this porcelain has been much extended: and a great variety of