(Chap. II. MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. 73;) 3 B 2 : if it can be ripened before the frost sets in, and the flavour of the meal is superior when t the climate is rather bleak and soil not very rich. It differs from wheat and barley in the form of the ear. This is not a spike with a ! single rachis, but a panicle, resembling in some degree the branches of a pine, from the i grains hanging with their open extremities downwai-ds ; these being covered by the i chaff, are defended from rain, and are not liable to some diseases incident to barley and 1 wheat. T « ■ 4206. The native country of the oat is unknown. It was found by Lord Anson growing 1 wild in the island of Juan Fernandez : a kind of wild oat is indigenous to this country, : and is a very troublesome weed, from which it may originally have been produced by i cultivation; but the best varieties now in use have been introduced from abroad. 4207. The most common sort which has been long cultivated here is the white oat (Jig. 612.) ; but the best variety now raised in Scotland and the north of England is the potato oat, which was accidentally discovered some years ago in Cumberland, growing upon a heap of manure, in company with some potatoes : other varieties are the common feed oat, the Poland, the Dutch, and the Tar- tarian, &c. ; all probably derived from one parent stock. 4208. An analysis of oats by Sir H. Davy gave, in 1000 parts, starch, 641 ; gluten, 87 ; saccharine matter, 15. From this it appears that there is less nutritive matter in oats than any other cereal grain ; and the very small proportion of saccha- rine matter which it contains renders it improfitable for malt: it may, notwithstanding, be fermented, but with some diffi- culty. It contains, however, more gluten than barley, though less than wheat; and experience shows that it is very nu- tritive, since the labouring classes in Scotland, Lancashire, Derbyshire, and in some other parts of England and Wales, subsist and keep up their strength perfectly upon bread and other preparations made of it. Many, indeed, who are used to oaten bread, prefer it to every other kind. In the south of I England oats are not employed for bread, but only in feeding horses, with whom it is .■ supposed to agree better than any other species of grain. 4209. Oatmeal is cooked for human food in several ways. In Scotland it forms the dish ( called pottage or porridge, the universal breakfast, in many parts, of labouring people and 1 children: deprived of the husks, it constitutes grits or groats, much used for making I oatmeal gruel, which is taken both as food and medicinally. The advantage of grits over I oatmeal is, that the fecula or starch, of which the meal or farina of the oats chiefly con- ; sists, is alone extracted by the boUing water, and that thus none of the cuticle which covers ! it is mixed with the gruel; but in the oatmeal, this thin cuticle, which incloses it (not I the husk of the oat), is ground up with the meal, and gives to it a harsh and rough taste: : for although the gruel made of oatmeal may be strained, still a quantity of the minute ■ fragments of the cuticle escape through the strainer; whereas, in the case of grits, this ' cuticle is entirely kept back, which accounts for the smoothness, as it is termed, of grit- i gruel. Scotch oatmeal is superior to English, which is partly owing to the superiority of ■ the grain and the climate, but in part owing to the greater care employed in its cultivation. In Scotland, also, the oats are dried in a kiln previous to grinding, which gives it an : agreeable flavour. StjBSECT. 4.--Rye. 4210. At present rye (Secale cereale, Lin.) is very little employed among us for bread, : and is cultivated chiefly to be eaten by the cattle as green fodder: nevertheless, rye bread was very general in England about two centuries ago, and is still used as the food ■ of the peasantry in Russia, northern Germany, some parts of France, and great part of ; the north of Europe. 4211. Rye, according to Einhoff, is composed of albumen, 3-27; moist gluten, 9-48; mucilage, ll'OO; starch, 61'09 ; saccharine matter, 3-27; husk, 6-38; moisture, 5-42. From this analysis, it appears that rye contains more gluten than any other grain except wheat, and therefore should be next to it as a bread corn. The husk possesses an aromatic and slightly acidulous flavour, which renders it agreeable to the palate. The bran should not, therefore, be entirely separated from the flour ; for if the grain be ground fine and divested entirely of the husk, the bread will be deprived of much of its pleasant taste. Rye bread is consequently made of coarse flour, which, together with its dark colour, has probably given rise to much of the dislike to it in this country. The quantity of gluten whicli it contains accounts for the facility with which it may be fermented into spongy bread, which is not the case with oats and. some other grains. But bread made of it very soon becomes sour : indeed it undergoes an acetous