:hap. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. 463 Many of whom subsist entirely upon this useful vegetable. It must not, however, be magined that potatoes contain the same nutritive powers as bread, weight for weight. It lias been estimated, as the result of experiments, by two French chemists, MM. Percy and Vauquelln, that one pound of good bread is equal to two pounds and a half or three pounds of potatoes ; that seventy-five poimds of bread and thirty of meat are equal to three [hundred pounds of potatoes. 2459. A considerable deduction must be made from the advantages of the potato, on ac- eount of its requiring much manure for their cultivation, together with the difficulty of transporting and preserving them in consequence of their bulkiness. The time occupied by labouring people in cooking them in the usual way is also a drawback from their use- fulness. From their want of gluten, they cannot be fermented alone into bread, but they .are advantageously mixed with wheat flour for this purpose. 2460. London is well supplied with potatoes from various parts of the country ; and the ■varieties are so numerous, that almost every town has some sort peculiar to its vicinity, ihe names varying in different districts. They are distinguished as being farinaceous or miealy; glutinous or watery; or, according to the ripening, early and late. Those varie- ties that are mealy are most esteemed, afford the most nutriment, and are most easUy [digested; the waxy kinds are inferior in all these particulars. New potatoes are less unealy and less digestible than old ones. 2461. The earliest potatoes are cultivated by the gardeners: of the field potatoes, among 'the most remarkable early sorts are the early kidney, nonsuch, early Shaw, and early champion, which last is more generally grown near London. Among the best sorts of date potatoes are the red round kidneys, the large kidney, the bread fruit, &c. The most imealy sorts are the most nutritive, as containing the greatest quantity of starch, and they lare likewise the most digestible. The kinds called waxy are said to be very improper for dyspeptic persons. 2462. In England potatoes are most frequently brought to table boiled plain; but in France Ithey are cooked in a great variety of ways, and furnish many very agreeable dishes. The boiling of potatoes in the best manner, which to some may appear an operation of no difficulty, requires •consideralile attention ; iind much of the goodness of this vegetable depends upon its being properly cooked. FTho Irish have long had the reputation of being particularly successful in this part of the culinary art. The directions given in the Farmers' Magazine, vol. v. pp. 191. and 503., are as follows : — ** It is of consequence :that they be as nearly as possible of one size ; that they be well washed and cleared of earth or dirt; that they ^be put, with cold water, into a pan or kettle, well rinsed about, and kept there for an hour or two, which will ■extract the black liquor with which they are impregnated. They ought then to be put, with their skins on, not into boiling water, like greens, but mto fresh cold water, with a little salt, and boiled in a kettle or sauce- pan, closely covered, in the most rapid manner. No more water should be put in than merely to cover them, as they produce themselves a considerable quantity of fluid. When sufficiently done, the water should be instantly poured off, and the vessel containing the cooked potatoes is to be placed on the side of the fire, with the cover off, until the steam be completely evaporated : the potatoes are thus rendered quite dry and mealy.'* i There is some difference among cooks in England in the mode of boiling them. Some pare them when raw, like turnips ; but this renders thjem tasteless and insipid: and some think they should be boiled slowly, and for this reason throw in occasionally a little cold water to check the boiling when too fast, which is apt to ■crack the outside, and let in the water before the heart is done. 2463. Cooking them by steam is a good method, as, should they break, to which they are very liable, they rcannot imbibe such a quantity of water, and are therefore more easily obtained in the floury state, which is Rigenerally preferred. 2464. Roasting is another yery excellent mode; and Dr. Paris considers it as the best way of preparing i-them for invaliiis. Sometimes they are parboiled and then roasted. Baking is not so good a mode of cooking I'them. They are perhaps the only root grown in Britain which may be eaten every day without satiating tlie (^palate. 2465. Potatoes in their raw state contain an acrid matter, which is deleterious in some ddegree even to cattle. 2466. Potatoes are employed in some other ways, as largely in the manufacture of bread; wee Book IX. " On Bread ;" also for starch see I?ook XXII. " Laundry." 2467. Potato flour is, in fact, dry starch powder procured from the potato, and is much mised in Paris in fine bread and pastry : it is also sold in the shops here, but often as arrow T'root, to which it is inferior. It is said that several other articles found in our shops are I'only potato starch, as Brights nutritious farina, Indian corn starch, &c.; these are suf- lificiently wholesome and light, but not very nutritive. Potato starch is easily convertible innto sugar; but this is much inferior in sweetness to that of the sugar-cane. It is clammy, sand has something of a floury appearance ; but, being very white, it is said to be em- I bloyed by the grocers for adulterating. It is also used for distilling ardent spirits, and for ihhe making of beer. The refuse of the potatoes, after the starch has been extracted, has lx)een found usefiil in scouring woollen cloths without hurting their colour; and the water idecanted from potato starch is excellent for cleaning silks with the smallest injury to the 3olour. For the effects of frost on potatoes, see Book X. " On the Preservation of Food." Potatoes have been fourfd to be an excellent preventive of scurvy, cooked in the ordi- nary way, or baked under ashes. 2468. The sweet potato {Convolvulus batata') is a tuberose root common in tropical ;ountries, but of quite a different species from the common potato. It forms a sweet aourishing food used as potatoes. This plant had been introduced into England by Sir