976 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. from various mecbanics, -which almost every inventor requires in order to perfect his •work. Indeed supposing that he was not entitled to all the merit that has been claimed for him, it must be allowed that he possessed a very high inventive talent, as well as great sagacity in estimating at their true value the mechanical conti'ivances of others, in combining them together, and arranging a complete series of machinery. Nor did his genius confine itself to the invention of machines only, he improved every part of the process of manufacturing cotton, and being a man of business, he, in conjunction with Messrs. Strutt and New, whom he toolc into partnership, introduced an order and system into factories, before unknown. Mr. Strutt had made many improvements in the manu- facture of stockings at Derby. 5748. Arkwright's first, invention was the water-spinning frame (so named because worked by the power of water), a wonderful piece of machinery, which spins a vast number of threads of any degree of fineness and hardness; leaving to hands merely to feed the machine with cotton, and to join the threads when they happen to break. 5749. We observed under " Spinning," that in the process of spinning cotton, the thread is formed by two steps ; in the first the flattened roll delivered by the card, called a "sliver," is drawn out and only slightly twisted into what is termed a "roving;" and afterwards this roving is stretched to a great length and sufficiently twisted into a fine cohesive thread. Arkwright's spinning machine consists of two pair of rollers. The lower roller of each pair is furrowed or fluted longitudinally, and the upper one is covered with leather. If there was only one pair of equal rollers, it is clear that a carding of cotton passed between them would be drawn forward by the revolution of the rollers, but it would merely undergo a certain degree of flattening from their action. No sooner, however, has the carding begun to pass through the first pair of rollers, than it is received by the second pair, which are made to revolve with a greater velocity than the first pair. By this contrivance the cotton is formed into a kind of ribband. It is obvious that this machine by Arkwright is entirely different from the previous methods of spinning, either by the distaff or by the jenny, which was only a modification or multiplication of the common wheel. Spinning by rollers was another idea, which though perhaps not origin- ating with Arkwright, was first reduced to practice by him, and this was accompanied by other contrivances equally ingenious, by which the process was perfected. 5750. Oiie of these is the drawing frame, which was intended, previous to spinning, to straighten and lay at their full length all the fibres of the cotton more perfectly than it had been possible to do by the carding alone, as formerly was practised. By drawing and doubling, the irregularities of the ribands left by the cylinders are lessened. The united drawings are now passed through a trumpet-shaped funnel, and thence conducted into a tin canister, round the interior of which it coils itself, being still very slightly coherent, and thus formed into a loose spongy thread, called a " roving," a slight twist being also given to it. Several roving machines have begn invented, but the most perfect at present in use is that called the bobbin and fly frame, contrived by Mr. Houldsworth. Another excellent invention is Danforth's tube-roving frame. 5751. The roving is now to be finally tivisled sufficiently, and spun into a thread. This •was efiected by Arkwright's water-frame, already mentioned. When these machines of Arkwright were completed, yams were produced far superior in quality to any before spun in England, as well as lower in price. Weavers could now obtain an unlimited quantity of yarn at a moderate rate ; and they could use warps of cotton much cheaper than the linen warps, and fabrics altogether of cotton, rivalling the calicoes of India, could be manufactured at a low price. The consequence was a great demand for them, and a prodigious increase of weavers and manufacturers. Capital was embarked, and a business of vast extent was created; and then also commenced the factory system. The excellent yarn thus produced was first employed with success, when woven into stockings at Derby; afterwards they made proper calicoes, but the Legislature at first prohibited printing these, and afterwards laid on a duty ; and it was not till 1774 that English cottons were permitted to be made without linen •warp. 5752. After the invention of Arkwright's machinery, Hargreavcs' spinning jennies were still used; the former was best adapted for spinning twist, a hard and firm thread, to be employed as warp instead of linen, and the latter produced a softer thread, fittest for the weft. These two inventions did not interfere with each other ; but by neither of these admirable machines could the finer kinds of yarn be made, since a thread of great tenuity liad not strength sufficient to bear the water-frame. 575.3. Another invention made in 1779, by Samuel Crompion, a rveavcr at Bolton, enabled manufacturers to spin yarn of the first quality, and gave rise to the fabrication of British muslins. This machine, from its combining the principles of Arkwright's water-frame and llargreaves'jenny, was named the mule or mule-jenny. Like the former, it had rollers, and like the latter, spindles, to give the twist. This excellent machine has superseded the jenny, and to a considerable extent the water-frame, having subsequently been much