ilHAP. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS. 89 [ ■ons. The inequality of heat in various parts of a room, though we could wish rather to "orrect it, has its advantages, and it -would be difficult to find any degree of heat that r.'ould suit every one's feelings : some would feel it too warm, others not warm enough; Liut, with a fire, we can choose our places ; we can draw nearer to the fire, or remove farther tiff.' There is a certain distance from a fire that is most agreeable and most proper: not far rnough off to lose the full benefit of the radiant heat, and not near enough to be in the -ecided current that feeds the fire. To sit quite opposite to a fire is particularly unpleasant, rjid often dangerous ; as this is the strongest part of the current, many a cold is got by iitting directly opposite to a fire. The old-fashioned folding screens were found ex- r.-emely useful, when our fire-places not being so good as at present, the draughts were ioore felt; and they are still occasionally employed with advantage. 383. Various other reasons might be assigned for our adherence to the custom of warming kur apartments by fires in open grates, besides national prejudice in their favour. The ri-equent change of the occupiers in our cities, and the variety of wants, opinions, and tastes, oorm considerable objections to the introduction of any fixed and immoveable modes of r/arming, while the abundance of our iron and coal, and the facility with which the lormer is wrought into grates extremely cheap, yet elegant in their appearance, and the lase with which they may be moved from house to house, and changed according to the jaste of the occupant, together with the industry of our ironmongers, who hold out such esmptations in every show-room, furnish so many reasons, among others that might be enumerated, for the continuance of their use. Besides, although they certainly are not the most economical apparatus, they are the simplest, and most easily managed, and therefore Mest adapted to the general habits of sei-vants. Few people take the trouble to consider the li.iiference between a badly constructed grate, and one made and fitted up upon the best !Drinciples, which are really little understood ; and those who are disposed to quarrel tpith our fire-places, do not take care to select the best kind when they are disposed to xriticise. With our present existing edifices, our habits, and our fuel, there is little doubt but that f ve must continue for a long time the use of open fires; and that it will be most prudent 00 follow the example of Count Rumford in improving them as much as possible, until something better be fairly established, or clearly demonstrated. If they have defects, bhey have likewise many advantages over other modes; and it may, probably, be ultimately 'obund, that the fondness for an English fire-side is not merely a prejudice. 384. Perhaps the greatest improvement that can easily be effected at present in rendering mir houses comfortable, is to warm the air of the hall and staircase; as all the upper apart- lunents communicate directly with the latter, or with passages connected with it, whenever mny door is opened, a rush of cold air enters; and every draught through crevices in the rcooms feels unpleasant from the same cause ; whereas, if the air of the staircase had a poroper temperature, it would not only feel agreeable in passing from one part of the house ico another, but all cold draughts would be avoided, with the exception of such as the »vrindows occasioned ; and this might be prevented by having double sashes in winter. BBut if the staircase is to be warmed, the choice of the mode must be considered; since, if the liiir in it be in any way deteriorated, it must injure that of the whole house. Warming by haeated iron we have said enough against: steam or hot water, and even brick stoves, are (unobjectionable, except on the score of trouble and expense ; but by no means should the ailir supplied be taken from the basement story, or from offices of any kind, but from some rplace out of doors, where the air is pure. Perhaps the best thing, where there is space, will be found to be a brick or earthenware stove, somewhat after the Russian or German ffashion : these are easily managed, are not expensive, and do not injure the air. Except the staircases are warmed, it will scarcely be possible to render very large aapartments sufficiently comfortable by open fires alone, although this is extremely de- ssirable on account of ventilation ; but it would be easy to assist them by the introduction "of steam heat, either by having steam pipes or vessels in the room, or by the admission of aair previously warmed by steam pipes. The first of these methods is not only the simplest, 'but likewise the best, where it is practicable. It is proper to observe, that although skylights in winter cause a gi'eat loss of heat, )yet in summer, when there is strong sun-shine, the air is heated by them to an intoler- aable degree. On these occasions, during the hot periods of the day, it would be extremely iraseful, in order to keep the house cool, to cover over the skylight with some cloth kept ''■for the purpose, leaving just enough to afford the necessary light, a practice very common 1 in warm climates. Through neglect of this, many houses are rendered very uncomfort- lablc in hot weather. During the hot hours of the day, all windows should be kept closed, I to prevent the admission of hot air. There cannot be a greater error than keeping !the windows open in the heat of the day in very hot weather ; for the air is then hotter out of doors than within. 38.5. With regard to the degree of temperature proper for apartments, it is not possible to I lay down any invariable rule, since so tnuch must depend upon particular constitutions