573 Chap. III. BREWING. and the continuance of a languid ferraentatiou would soon cause the ale to run into acidity if the wort were suiFered to remain in the vat; the yeast whicii had risen to the surface would suhside to the bottom, where part of it would be dissolved by the spirit of the beer, and it would communicate an unpleasant bitter, which is termed by the brewers^ tjeast bitter. 3230. A second fermentation is therefore necessary, to get nd of the remaining fermentable matter ; and this process is performed in casks or barrels, into which the new malt liquor is now transferred from the fermenting tun. This second slow fermentation is by the brewers termed cleansing, because the beer seems to be cleansed of much foul matter, which consists chiefly of mucilage and exhausted ferment, part of which subsides to the bottom under the name of dregs or lees. 3231. As the yeast ivorks out of the casks, it leaves, of course, a vacancy, which must be filled up daily by beer reserved from the fermenting tun ; and when the discharge of froth has ceased, or nearly so, which will be in about a week, more or less, the bungs are to be put in, and well secured. A slight fermentation continues for some days in the closed cask; when this has ceased, the feculencies begin to subside, leaving the liquor quite bright and clear. 3232. Transferring liquor from one vessel to another, tenned by the brewers racking, always forms a considerable check to fermentation, by getting rid of the sediment, or lees, which contains a great deal of the ferment. In this case, if the quantity of the liquor in the fermenting vat be so considerable as to fill several barrels, it is evident that the tem- perature will be reduced by its being divided into portions ; and in cold weather this check is sometimes too considerable, since it is necessary that the fermentation shall still go on slowly in the barrels. When this is the case, brewers, a little before racking, rouse or stir up the yeast and wort, to revive the expiring fermentation, or even add a little yeast. 3233. If all the previous processes have been ivcll managed, the beer itself will absorb all tlie carbonic acid gas that is genemted in the inclosed cask, which will be retained by the drink from the mechanical pressure to which it is subjected ; and this will constitute that appearance of briskness which beer should have when just drawn, a property owing to the sudden disengagement of the gas which has been pent up in the liquor. While remain- ing in this state, the barrels should occasionally be examined by opening the vent peg a little, lest the gas shoidd collect in too great a quantity, when the barrels might bm-st, an accident which has been known to happen. 3234. In a few months ale is generally fit for use, though some is kept for a whole year before it is drunk ; and it continues to improve all that time, provided it has strengtli or body enough, and it is kept sufficiently cool to prevent its passing into the acetous fermentation. The slow fermentation is some security against this, since any change can be more easily watched. 3235. It is essential that a certain portion of the saccharine matter shall remain unfer- mented, that, by its slow fermentation while keeping, the liquor may be fed, as it is called ; that is, supplied with slow and gradual additions of alcohol and of carbonic acid, to pre- vent that flatness and heaviness which would ensue from the loss of the latter principle. Should it happen that the beer appears to ferment too much after being barrelled, another racking may be found necessary. By repeated rackings, the fermentative matter may be got rid of, and such beer at last become clear and transparent ; it may, if bottled, remain for years without coming up, as it is technically called. The object of the brewer should be to produce an agreealile beverage, distinguished not so much for absolute strength, or quantity of alcohol, as for colour, flavour, transparency, liveliness, and povi'er of keeping for a long time. 3236. It is essential that the casks shall be kept well closed, to prevent the escape of the fixed air that is formed, and the access of common air. We have stated that the slow fermentation in the casks is useful in forming continual small quantities of carbonic acid gas, and, as this is absorbed by the beer, the latter is always saturated with it ; likewise what little vacant space there may happen to be in the cask above the beer will be com- pletely filled with the gas, even a little condensed, which will prevent more from being liberated, or even formed, because there is no space for it to expand in, on which ac- count the slow vinous fermentation is long kept up, and so long as this does exist in any degree, the acetous cannot begin ; but when the surface of the liquor is exposed to the common air, the carbonic acid flies off as soon as it is formed, and room is thus given for the formation of more ; what remains, therefore, of the vinous fermentation to take place is soon finished, and then the acetous will begin; in other words, the liquor wiU turn sour. This effect may be easily perceived when a cask is tapped; for the beer, brisk at first, after a time gets flat, from the want of carbonic acid, and if it is not all used quickly enough, what remains sours. Bottling, the most perfect mode of preserving malt liquors, is, in fact, like putting the liquor into very small casks, where all the effects arc exactly similar to those just described. See further on this subject, under " Bottling Beer," Sect. X.