60 Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. the details should receive the attention of the architect, in designing, -when provision can be made for placing the pipes properly, which if not done at first, may sometimes be found difBcult or inconvenient afterwards. 258. In London the abundance and cheapness of the supply of excellent water by means of the water companies is admirable, notwithstanding the outcry raised by ignorant or un- principled persons: in many parts of the metropolis water can be served to the upper stories from the ordinary sources ; and when this cannot be done, it may be elevated sviSi- ciently high by force pumps. 259. The advantage of having water laid on in the bedchamber stories to supply baths, or for other purposes, is too obvious to require being stated, and should not be neglected in a new house, where the expense does not forbid so great a convenience. Wherever there is any degree of complexity in the pipes or other apparatus necessary for the supply, an accurate drawing should be kept of the whole, that may give the requisite information in case of repairs or alterations. For the properties of good water, and the methods of filtering, we refer the reader to the article in this work on that subject. Chap. I. Book VIII. 260. To prevent the water in the lead pipes from freezing in winter, which frequently causes them to burst by the expansion of the ice, any portion that is exposed to the ex- ternal air should, at the commencement of a frost, be well wrapped round by some non- conducting substance, as straw ; and in case of the pipe passing through the house, it is a good plan to have a cock on the part of the service-pipe where it enters, which being shut as soon as the cistern is filled, the pipe may be emptied of water, and remain so until the water comes on again, by which means all danger of the water freezing in the pipes may be avoided, a circumstance which, when it happens, is very annoying. 261. The construction of cisterns with ball cock and waste pipe is too well understood to require being mentioned in detail: the first being to prevent the water running after the cistern is full, and the last to prevent the cistern from overflowing in case of any accident to the former. It is a good precaution to lay the pipes in such a manner that they can be easily got at, in case repairs should be necessary. Sinking and forcing pumps ai-e pro- vided by the plumber. 262. For pumps, see " Kitchen Furniture," Book XI. SuBSECT. 16.— Waterclosets. 263. 77(6 great utility of waterclosets is so well known that little need be said on the subject, but that they are indispensable in every house where comfort is aimed at. As they are very troublesome when out of order, some pains should be taken to select one of good construction ; and it is better to give a higher price than, through too great economy, to run the risk of getting one imperfect. Various patents have been taken out for this apparatus ; but we believe that no construction is superior to the original one, that by the late Bramah. The general principle of all is the same ; a cistern of water is placed above, and in the bottom is a valve, which is opened by the motion of the handle on the seat, by which the water rushes down into the basin, while the same handle, by means of a lever, opens another valve below in the soil pipe, the water passing through it. It is scarcely possible to render a description intelligible, without inspection of the apparatus itself. 264. A simple and cheap loatercloset is the following: a. Jig. 51. is the earthernware basin, the low.pr end of which terminates in a neck that dips under the water in a leaden vessel, from which a pipe descends to the drain, b is the cistern of water placed above at a proper height: this cistern has a waste pipe, c, which not only prevents the water in the cistern from overflowing, but it also goes into the leaden vessel, and keeps it filled every time the water comes on, thus preventing that part from becoming ever dry, if it should not be used. The supply to the basin is by a pipe, d, coming from the cistern, and having a valve at the bottom, seen on a large scaler at c: this valve is raised, when water is required for the basin, by pulling a string, attached to one end of a small lever, fixed on the edge of the cistern, to the other end of which is a chain that raises the valve. The lower end of the basin being thus always under the water, no foul air can ascend. Some, instead of this valve and lever, put a cock on the pipe, d, which may be turned when necessary ; and this cock, if brought to the seat, may be turned by a handle similar in appearance to the better kind of waterclosets : but the cock does not afford sufficient water way, which occasions the water to flow too slowly ; whereius the valve may be made of Fig. 51. any size, and may therefore give a sufficient and sudden supply. 265. Portable waterclosets are described under " Furniture."