ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. 804 as to beauty and transparency when clarified sugar is used; but for ordinary purposes, refined sugar answers very well. 4BH. Currant jelly. — The usual method of obtaining the juice is to bruise the currants, and to pass them througli a sieve ; but tlicn it is apt to be turbid and tliicli. A better mode is to warm the fruit by steaming it, or by putting it closely covered into a slow oven : the juice will then How from it without much pressure. Put it now in the preservhig pan on the fire to boil, in order to evaporate some of the water ; let it boil a quarter of an hour ; then talte it off, skim it, and pass it through a flannel bag to render it clear ; add sugar to it in the proportion of a pound and a half of refined sugar to one pint of the juice, and put this on the fire to simmer very gently, until, by dipping a spoon in the jelly, and again raising it, the jelly becomes stiff: then the boiling is sullicient. Take it now off the fire, and let it stand till the scum has collected on the surface: remove this, run the whole through a hair sieve, and put the clear jelly into pots. When cold, cover the surlace with jelly paper steeped in brandy. What remains on the sieve will do to make pies, or mix with any common jam; and the jelly will be more delicate if no squeezing is employed. A small proportion of rasp- ]]erries will improve the flavour. 461.'). While currant jelly is made in a similar manner ; only the finest sugar should be used, and the boiling and straining should be done very carefully, as the colour is easily injured. White raspberry juice may be added. The sugar should be high-boiled. 4616. Black currant jelly is generally used medicinally : it is made in the same manner. 4617. Grape jelly. — Spread some of the ripest grapes on straw ; at the end of a fortnight pluck them from the stalks, and boil them for five or six minutes only, in order that the juice may be extracted with ease by pressure : next pass the juice through a sieve, add a quarter of a pound of white sugar to each pound of juice, and boil the whole for half an hour, and afterwards set it to cool: in twenty-four hours it will be a fine jelly, useful to invalids. 4618. Robs arc vegetable juices simphj inspissated by evaporating most of the water in a vessel over a fire, till they acquire the consistence of syrup, which wiO prevent their running into fermentation. The fruits are to be squeezed in bags to obtain the juices. Sometimes a little sugar is added to make them keep better. Rob of elder berries will keep without sugar, and is sometimes employed medicinally. 4619. Syrup oj lemons—Dissolve by a gentle heat a pound and three quarters of sugar in a pint of lemon juice, and skim it well; add an ounce of lemon peel cut thin ; simmer the whole gently for a few minutes, and then strain it: when cold, battle it and keep it in a cool place. If lemons cannot be had, this may be made by dissolving crystallised lemon juice in syrup, and flavouring it with syrup of lemon peel. 4620. Syrup of oranges may be made in the same way. Both these are useful for sauces and for punch. 4621. Syrup of lemon or orange peel Macerate all night in a close vessel, with a pint and a half of boiling water, three ouiices of the outer rind of lemon peel or Seville orange; strain and let it stand to settle; pour off the clear part, and add to it two pounds of loaf sugar: evaporate by a gentle heat till it comes to a proper consistence for a syrup. 4622. Fruits preserved by candying. — All fruits before being candied must first be boiled in syrup, after which they are taken out and dried on a stove, or before the fire ; the syrup is then to be concentrated or boiled to a candy height, and the fruit dipped in it, and again laid in the stove to dry and candy : they are then to be put into boxes and kept dry. 4623. For beautiful preserves for the dessert, see " Confectionery," Book XV. 4624. Conserves co7mst of fresh vegetable matters beat into a uniform mass with refined sugar; and they are intended to preserve the virtues and properties of recent flowers, leaves, roots, peels, or fruits unaltered, and as near as possible to what they were when fresh gathered, and to give them an agreeable taste. Vegetables whose virtues are soon destroyed by drying may be preserved in this manner for a considerable time unimpaired. The preparation of conserves is extremely simple. The sugar is first ground to fine powder, and then mixed by long beating (not by solution) with the vege- table pulp or other material. No heat or other mode of preparation is employed ; so that the vegetable matter remains as nearly as possible in the state in which it existed in the plant at the moment of gathering. The most usual of these are conserve of roses, mallows, rosemary j of hips, orange flowers, violets, jessamin, citrons, and sloes : they are chiefly medicinal. The apothecaries, under the title of conserves, comprehend all kinds of confects, both dry and liquid, whether of flowers, fruits, seeds, roots, or leaves, if they are prepared with sugar or honey to preserve them. 4625. The following fruits and vegetables preserved, chiefly for the dessert, may be had in Hie shops in London: — Muscatel raisins in bunches Jordan almonds Gusinarven or Portugal plums Prunes impcriales, the largest sort of French plums Prunes de Tours Prunes du Iloi Prunes de la Rcine, or prunes flources Prunes do BrignoUes, or pru- nellas Prunes de Mirabelle, or pistulle French dried pears French dried apples; these keep a long time Portug.il dried cherries Portugal dried peaches Klemi, or chosen Smyrna figs Turkey flat figs Do., in cakes with almonds Commadra in cakes with almonds M.irseilles almonds Almond figs, fig cakes, and almond pines Kgyplian, Mogadore, and Harbary dates Portugal black grapes Spanish green grapes Hambro' black grapes Malaga and Oporto pomegranates Spanish musk melons French and Spanish olives Candied orange and lemon peel chips Preserved West India ginger Preserved East India ginger Preserved green limes Preserved pine-npples Preserved tamarinds Plne-applo jam Guava jelly Brazil nuts Cashew nuts American ground nuts Pistachio nuts Spanish chesnuts Fresh cocoa-nuts with milk East India candied ginger East India cliou-chou Preserved nutmegs from Batavia Preserved cashew ajiple Apricots, greengages, straw berries, cherries, &c., preserved in apple Jcllv from Itoucn. The following fruits dried in syrup or in crystal sugar, from Au- vergne: apricots, gages, peaches, cherries, strawberries, necta- rines, Mogul plums, pine-apples, Siberian apples, pears, Sc.