Book IX. ON MAKING BREAD. 7G6 it may be poured into the trougli containing tlie whcat.ftour and yeast: being tliere well kneaded, it sliould stand twoliours to prove, divided Into loaves, and bailed rather longer in the oven tlian for wheat bread alone. The Tartars prepare an excellent food from bucli-wlieat in a mode tiiat miglit be applied upon occasion to other species of grain, where a mill and the other necessary apparatus cannot be had. Tliey first steep the seed well in cold water, and then put it into saclis to drain for ten or twelve hours : after it has been tlius swelled, it is well dried over a slow fire in iron pans, when the husks crack and split. The kernel or flour is then easily separated from the liusks by beating it in a wooden mortar, and sifting separates the fine flour. Sect. XI. FAHINACEOtrS SUBSTANCES WHICH ARE USED IN VARIOUS PARTS OF THE WORLD INSTEAD OF BREAD ; TOGETHER WITH OTHERS WHICH MIGHT BE OCCASIONALLY EMPLOYED IN TIMES OF SCARCITY 437.5. It may be useful to know all the plants, either in this countiy or abroad, which are capable of supplying us with farinaceous matter fit for food, with the view of intro- ducing such of them as we have not noticed, thus increasing our resources against times of scarcity, which, although they rarely occur, are not altogether beyond our experience. It is likewise desirable to be acquainted with the various substitutes for bread, which are employed in our colonies, and in other parts of the world. 4376. In many parts of the tropical regions, the climate or the soil does not admit of the cultivation of corn of any kind ; and in those places nature has supplied the inhabitants with other plants which afford a food nearly analogous to bread. Of these, the tribe of palms are some of the most useful of the tropical trees, affording not only an agreeable shade, but also an abundance of nutriment. The stem or wood consists of bundles of fibres, interspersed through a pithy substance that in some species is highly farinaceous, and which, when extracted by a simple process, constitute our sago, arrow-root, and similar articles of food. 4377. In die enumeration of some of the principal vegetablcsfrom which nature supplies man with abundance of food almost ready prepared, in regions deprived of the cerealia, whether from the heat of the climate, or the aridity or rocky nature of the soil, we may perceive the bounty of Providence to the human race, before it had extended, probably, to those parts of the earth where the cultivation of our faculties is more demanded. It would indeed be curious, but departing too far from our subject, to consider the numerous natural productions which, in the sultry regions, render effort less necessary, and thus, in fact, deprive man of the motives for progression. Safe under the shade of the banyan tree, architecture could never have commenced, or if it had, the bamboo and the palm would have rendered the construction of a habitation a matter of little difficulty. Inde- pendently of delicious fruits, as the plantain and banana, numerous bread trees present themselves ; in Africa there is an excellent butter tree, and Humboldt describes the cow tree of Cumana, which, though growing upon a rock, affords, when its stem is pierced, a flow of delicious vegetable milk, which the natives collect and cari-y home to their children. Then for furniture they have barks to serve as baskets, leaves that fold up for umbrellas, and others that require little to transform them into hats, with numerous fibres ready made for thread and ropes. Little that is essential seems to be wanting for the support of man ; yet is all this surpassed among more northern nations where nature has been less bountiful, through industry and art, the result of intellectual improvement. 4378. Macaroni is a favourite food in Italy, particularly among the Neapolitans, by whom it may be considered as their staff of life. It is prepared in the following manner, by a very simple process. The best wheat is made into a paste by the smallest quantity of water, and as this is too hard and consistent to be kneaded with the hand, the fol- lowing contrivance is resorted to. A wooden pole, about fourteen feet long, is fastened at one end by a chain to a strong post fi.xed in the ground, so as to be moveable up and down like a lever, the paste being placed under one end. Two men take hold of the other end of this pole, and by elevating and depressing it alternatelj^ and moving a little from side to side, they work the paste very thoroughly, the power of the lever being very great when acting in this manner. When the paste is sufficiently worked, it is put into a hollow cylindrical vessel, having its bottom of cast iron, and pierced with holes about the size of a goose-quill, or of any size and form required. A piece of wood that exactly fits the inside of the cylinder is forced down upon the paste by means of a screw turned by two men, and in this manner it is forced through the holes in the form of the hollow tubes in which we see it. The macaroni is partially b!>ked as it issues from these holes by a fire that is placed below the cylinder; and as it descends it is drawn away and hung on rods placed across the room, where, in a few days, it dries fit for use. The manufacture of macaroni appears to be sufficiently simple, and having been usually brought from Genoa and Naples in three dillerent sizes, and also in thin plates, it was formerly sold at so high a price as to be seen only at the tables of the rich : but there appears no rcas(m why it should not be made in this country ; and, indeed, we are informed that a manufactorj- of it, as well as of vei inicelli, has existed in White's Row, Spitalfields, ever smce 1730. It is