822 GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. Romford roaster, through which the hot air enters and goes out, are closed, that it becomes in fact an oven ; and hence it can be employed to bake as -well as to roast; but it is remarkable, and what could scarcely be expected, it can be made to roast one dish and bake another at the same time. This will be understood by reference to the section. Jig. 640., where, on an upper shelf, are seen dishes, which may be supposed to be pies standing to be baked, while the joint below it is roasting. This upper shelf is capable of baking, because, as it goes quite to the back, there is no circulation of air round it, the hot air making its exit, according to the direction of the arrows, in front of this shelf, and up through the steam tube, without touching the pies, which are tlierefore surrounded by hot air, nearly, but without any current. 4681. Some roasters are likewise made so large as to contain several shelves for roasting, and are contrived so that the current of hot air shall circulate over the diSerent dishes, each being placed in a separate dripping-pan, to prevent the gravy and fat of one dish from falling on another ; and these, if well managed, are found to answer. There is a precaution to be taken in opening the door of a roaster when meat is roast- ing in it which ought never to be neglected; that is, to open the steam tube and openings for hot air for about a minute, or while a person can count forty or fifty, before the door of the roaster be thrown open. This will drive away the steam and vapour of the roaster, which otherwise would not fail to come into the room. As it wUl sometimes happen that the meat will be done before it is time to send it up to table, it may be either taken out of the roaster and put into a hot closet, which may be situated over it, and heated by the smoke from the latter, or it may remain in the roaster till it is wanted, by a particular management. For this purpose the roaster must be cooled a little, otherwise the meat will be overdone ; and this cooling may be effected by shutting the register of the ash pit; next, opening the fire-place door and the damper in the chimney ; then taking out the fire, or covering it up with cold ashes: and, lastly, opening the damper in the steam tube, and openings for the admission of air into the roaster. By these means the heat will soon be driven up the chimney and moderated tiU the interior of the roaster is cool enough; and then the meat may be put into it, and all the doors shut. 4682. It is necessary that the fire-place door of a roaster or oven should fit well; other- wise the air that enters will probably pass over the fire, instead of through it, and thus carry off into the chimney part of the heat of the fire, and in fact act in cooling the appa- ratus. A single door of iron will let the heat come through it, and the oven will not be so well heated. The door should be of some non-conducting material; either lined with fire-stone, or it may consist of two plates of iron with a space between to contain confined air. Some have employed double doors kept an inch or two apart, but so fixed together as to open at once. 4683. A method of roasting by means of gas flame will be described under " Cooking by Gas," Chap. III. Sect. X. 4684. The well-known Dutch oven, fig. 641., is an extremely useful apparatus for the kitchen of a small family. Its principle is the heat obtained by a strong reflection from the inside, when the oven is placed upon a stand close to the fire. It is usually made with a little dripping-pan in the bottom, and it has a shelf in the middle to place any thing upon that requires to be warmed, or browned; a small piece of meat or a bird niay be roasted by removing this shelf, and suspending the article by one of the hooks, which are made to turn to expose the different sides of the meat. F,e.M\. Fig. 6i2. 4685. Tlie Yorkshire oven, fig. 642., differs from the last, in being higher in proportion to its width, thereby giving more room for any thing suspended to be roasted; and by a slit in the handle, the meat may be removed farther from the fire, or nearer to it There is likewise a door in the back for access to the meat. The shelf is only placed occasion- ally, as in the last.