Chap. VII. 4.55 VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Sect. XVII. VEGETABLE ALKALIES. 2391. Alkalies constitute a peculiar class of bodies, which, however, it is diflScult to define accurately. They are distinguished hy a peculiar nauseous taste, called alkaline, and which, as it cannot he described, may be understood by tasting carbonate of soda: they change vegetable blues green, and yellow ones to brown, and they neutralise or destroy the action of acids, and consequently restore the blue colour of such vegetable solutions as have been rendered red by them. The most convenient tests for an alkali are slips of paper dyed yellow with turmeric, and sold for the purpose by chemists: if put into any liquid containing/ree alkali, they will be changed to brown. 2392. Formerly, there were but three alkalies known: soda, called mineral alkali; potash, the vegetable alkali; and ammonia the volatile alkali: the two first were named also fixed alkalies. The terms mineral alkali, and vegetable alkali, though formerly em- ployed, and constantly met with in old books, and therefore introduced here, are now laid aside as not applicable, since both of them are found m abundance in the mineral and in the vegetable kingdoms. The two mineral alkalies, soda and potash, have for their bases peculiar metals, called sodium and potassium; these alkalies are in fact oxides of the metals. 2393. What are in modern chemistry denominated the vegetable alkalies are certain sub- stances existing in plants that are possessed of alkaline properties : but they are very different from the fixed alkalies just mentioned, for they do not consist of metallic bases, but are composed of the usual elements of which vegetables are formed. It is interesting to observe, that in all these vegetable alkalies, as has been already noticed, nitrogen is found in considerable proportion, contrary to what is the case in the other proximate principles of the vegetable kingdom. Soda and potash, though differing altogether from these, being metallic oxides, occur in abimdance in plants ; and although they do not come under the denomination of vegetable alkalies, as the term is now understood by chemists, yet we feel it will be useful to describe them in this place as constituents of vegetables, premising that they must not be confounded with those vegetable alkalies which ai'e not metallic oxides. 2394. Soda was called the mineral alkali, because it was originally dug up out of the ground in Africa and other countries ; this state of carbonate of soda is called natron. But carbo- nate of soda is likewise procured from the combustion of marine plants, or such as grow on the sea shore. Kelp is a substance produced by the burning of the fucus or other sea weeds, and contains much impure soda ; it is used in making glass and soap. Barilla, a purer kind of the same substance, is made by burning the Salsola soda, a plant that grows abundantly at the sea-side in Spain. These carbonates of soda, when purified, are much in request by the laimdress. (For its use, see Book XXII. " Economy of the Laundry.") Pure carbonate of soda is employed for making effervescing draughts with lemon juice, citric acid, or tartaric acid. Soda deprived of carbonic acid and every other substance by a chemical process is called caustic, or pure soda. Common salt is muriatic acid and soda, or muriate of soda according to the late nomenclature of chemistry ; but at present it is considered to be chloride of sodium, or the elementary principle chlorine united to the metal sodium, consequently having no oxygen in its composition. It is remarkable that the metal sodium is never met with by itself in nature ; having so greedy an attrac- tion for oxygen, that when procured pure by art it falls into the state of an oxide in a short time: and this oxide is caustic potash. 2395. Potash was formerly called the vegetable alkali, because it was obtained from the ashes of land vegetables. When the ashes are mixed with water, the potash is dissolved and the earths and impurities settle to the bottom. This water is then evaporated by boiling in iron vessels ; and the solid substance that remains is the potash of commerce, so called from the manner of its production. When this is strongly heated in a furnace, it becomes whiter, and is then pearlash. These substances, however, are not the pure alkali or potash ; for they are thus united to carbonic acid, being in fact carbonate of potash. Potash deprived of the carbonic acid by another process is called caustic potash, which instantaneously acts upon and corrodes animal substances, and is used by surgeons in their operations. United to carbonic acid in the usual way, it is called mild potash, and still preserves somewhat of causticity, as may be observed from its effects upon the skin in wa.shing. Potash, both mild and caustic, is an extremely useful material, being em- ployed in medicine, and for domestic purposes in a great variety of ways, which will be described under their several heads. Potash is also extensively employed in the manu- facture of soap, in bleaching, scouring wool, &c. It is principally manufactured in America, Russia, and Poland, where the vast forests furnish an inexhaustible supply of ashes. Small quantities are also made here in country places from the burning of veget- G g 4