CUAP. VII. VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. 447 impossible to separate them completely from starch, gluten, sugar, &c. Only a few species have been examined, and we are uncertain how far their properties agree. Lin- seed yields one of the purest, which is well known in what is called linseed tea : when thick it much resembles solution of gum arable. Mucilage is perfectly soluble in cold and hot water, and is easily extracted by boiling, as from the roots of marshmallows, the kernels of quiuces, and most bulbous roots and fleshy leaves. Many of the fuel also yield a large quantity; some lichens have so much that they haye been used for the purpose of gum in calico printing. Mucilage is found more or less in barley, wheat, and all the grains used for brewing and baking. Sect. VIL GUM. 2336. Some trees suffer their gum to transude either spontaneously or by incisions made in them ; it becomes concrete by drying in the air. All gums are easily dissolved in water, and are then nearly analogous to mucilage ; but they do not dissolve in spirits of wine nor in oils. They readily unite with sugar, and their composition is so analogous to it, that they are easily converted into that substance by a chemical process, which however is not employed, because sugar is procured more economically in another way. The uses of gum are well known. The principal gums among us are: — 2337. Gum arable, the most valuable kind, which exudes from' different species of mimosa, particularly the vera, a native of Arabia. The best is colourless and very trans- parent 2338. Gum Senegal does not differ much from the last, but comes to us in large pieces, and is much employed by the calico printers. It is the produce of the Acacia Sencgalensis. 2339. Gum tragacanth is very different from the gums already mentioned, and is the produce of the Astragalus tragacantha, a thorny shrub growing in Syria and the islands in the Levant. It does not dissolve in cold water, but swells up into a mucilaginous mass, and requires digesting in hot water. 2340. Cherry gum is more analogous to gum tragacanth than to gum arable, as it dissolves in hot water but not in cold. It exudes from the Frunus avicum, or black cherry tree of this country; also from the plum, peach, and apricot trees. The gums are seldom employed as food, and, it is said, are not very nutritious, though the Africans in Senegal sometimes subsist upon it during the gum harvest. Sect. VIIL lignin, or woody fibre. 2341. This name has been given to the solid skeleton, as it may be called, of plants, or what remains after all the principles which have been just described are separated. This skeleton is composed of an infinite number of extremely minute fibres, which are ar- ranged in bundles, so as to constitute the various forms of stems, branches, and leaves ; and these, together with the cellular or pithy part between them, make up the solid through which the juices flow. Every one has seen leaves in the autumn, and beginning of winter, decayed, so as to have only the veins, or fibres, remaining : this is the lignin, or wood, of the leaves. 2342. The properties of lignin may be examined by boiling some wood rasped, or saw- dust, for a long time in water, to carry away such substances as are soluble in this fluid, -and then treating it with alcohol, to dissolve the resinous principles. After this, nothing would be found to remain but a fibrous substance, without taste or odour, and which would undergo no change by keeping in the dry : this would be pure lignin, and would amount to about 96 per cent, in most kinds of wood. 2343. The ligneous part, or lignin, of escidcnt vegetables, is in far less proportion than in wood; yet it is never absent, since it is necessary to form the skeleton of the plant. It is seen in the stringy part of culinary vegetables, as in many parts of the cabbage ; but is most striking in the hemp and flax plants, their long fibres consisting of this very woody matter arranged round the external part of the stem. 2344. Lignin is itself composed of the same elements as all the other proximate prin- ciples consist of; in 100 parts, there are 51'43 of carbon, 42-73 of oxygen, and .'5-82 of hydrogen ; and when it is burned, the oxygen, hydrogen, and part of the carbon, fly off, leaving only remaining the carbonaceous part of the skeleton, in the form of charcoal. Wood, under ordinary circumstances, as is well known, is indigestible and unfit for food ; those vegetables which have much of it in their structure are improper; and it is only the most succulent, that is, those which have much juice, or other nutritious principles, in proportion to their woody fibre, that are employed ; yet the substance we are now considering is (as we have already hinted) not entirely incapable of being em- ployed for human sustenance.