1177 POULTRY. Chap. VI. tumbler has beautiful plumage, and his name is derived from the singular manner in -which he tumbles over and over in descending from a great height in the air. Some sorts of fancy pigeons sell for very large sums when very perfect and of rare breeds. 6972. To stock a piyeoii-house it is proper to obtain the young birds, called squeakers, which are in the best condition in two seasons. May and August; the last is said to be preferable for stock. The common house pigeon partakes so much of the character of the carrier, that it is difficult to keep old birds in any other place than where they are reared, being known to fly back again and find their way home, even when removed with every precaution ; and it becomes necessary, therefore, to procure the young before they have acquired any attachment for locality. The male pigeon is distinguished from the female by his superior size, and he attaches himself to one female only, being pro- verbial for constancy. 6973. The pigeon lays two eggs, which, when hatched, produce a bird of each sex. Having laid one egg, she rests a day before she lays the other, and then proceeds to sit. The period of incubation is about fifteen or twenty days, and the male and female sit alternately, the former in the day, while the female is seeking refreshment abroad : both are equally industrious in procuring food for their young. When the young ones are hatched they require only warmth for the first three days, and the mother during that time never leaves them. Pigeons produce two or three broods in a year. 0974. Their manner of feeding tlieir young is remarltahle. The old ones swallow their food, consisting of peas and various seeds, and fill their crops, which are the largest in proportion of any birds, and after the food has remained there until it is macerated or softened, and half digested into a sort of pulp, they have the power of forcing it up at will and ejecting it into the opened bills of the young ones, whom they generally feed in this manner three times a day. They continue this mode of feeding for a week or ten days, and then they gradually add food of a harder kind. While so fed by the old ones the young are called squabs, which are most in demand for pies ; in the next month they are able to shil't for themselves, and, until they are six months old they are termed squeakers. 6975. Pigeons live almost entirely on grain and pulse, but will sometimes, likewise, eat aromatic vegetables; their power of digestion is very great, and they consume a large quantity of food. To procure it, they fly over a considerable space of ground, and are very destructive to crops at seed time. It is therefore hard upon farmers that persons should be allowed to keep many pigeons without having land of their own. If left at liberty, they will procure food for themselves, but if confined, they must-be fed. The best way is to feed them well in the dovecot, both to keep them at home, and prevent their doing injury to the crops. If well fed, they will aiford young for the table every month in the year. It is recommended, where there is danger of their destroying crops, to take all the young of the spring brood, or feed them in the house, only suffering the August brood to go abroad, when the crops are off the ground. In general, pigeons live about eight years, but they are only prolific for the first four years ; afterwards they are worth nothing ; and when they are past that age they only prevent the profit that might be reaped from those that are young. It is somewhat difficult, and requires considerable experience, to distinguish their age. 6976. Pigeoji-houses, or duvecois, are of several kinds. A small one maj' be made of a cask, or any boarded box, placed upon a pole ; or against a wall. A larger one may be a loft in some out-house, or a house may be built on purpose, or the highest part of any tower or ornamental building may be designed as a pigeon-house. The holes by which they enter should not be too large, or too numerous; and should have a little shelf at the entrance ; they should have a southern aspect, as pigeons delight in the sun. Great care should be taken to guard against the entrance of rats, which are dangerous enemies. An objection to wooden dovecots, is, that they are too cold in ^'S' winter, and too hot in summer ; but this may be in a great measure prevented by making the wood double, M'ith a space of two or three inches between, which will form a non-conductor of heat. The holes should have a piece of weather boarding over them to keep out the wet. 6977. The interior of the pigeon-house must have cells for nests; and these may be made by putting up shelves of wood, stone, or slate, twenty inches vi'ide, and one foot apart; the spaces between being divided by upright partitions three feet from each other. Across the front of each nest there should be a board, of three inches wide, sliding up and down in a groove, to prevent the young ones from falling out, which they are apt to do ; by having this board movable, the nests may be cleaned out occasionally. As tame pigeons seldom take the trouble to make any nest themselves, it is proper to make some for them of hay, or straw, to be put into the cells ; a kind of basket is best. It is recommended to fix a partition of similar height in the middle of each three feet division, thus parting