ON FERMENTATION. 5-13 Chap. 11. nected view of the subject of fermentation, it will be useful to repeat a few facts wliich we there stated. All the various kinds of vegetable substances, as fruits, gi'ain, roots, in short everything produced by the growth of plants, are composed of the same species of materials, but iu diti'erent proportions ; the elementary principles of which they all consist beinn- carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, but the last only in certain parts of ve"-etables and in small proportions. We likewise explained, that these simple elements are supposed first to unite into what are termed the proximate principles, as starch, sugar, mucila"-e, gluten, lignin or woody fibre and acids, together with various resinous and other matters elaborated by the organs of living plants. 3067. \Miile vegetables are living, the elementary principles of which they consist remain united, and such internal "motions and changes only go on as are essential to vitality, imd the performance of their several functions. The vegetable takes in food from the earth and the atmosphere ; this is converted first into sap, from which are aftenvards elaborated the various secretions, as starch, gum, wood, &c. and the plant grows and increases in bulk by the constant accession of fresh materials. 3068. But with the life of the vegetable, as with that of the animal, all the functions of nutrition and digestion cease, and the organic body becomes subject to the laws of chemical attraction. The sap no longer moves through the several vessels ; nor is it altered any more into sugar or into starch. The body, whether tree or herbaceous plant, being no longer itself part of the living world, passes into that state in which it becomes fit for the nourishment and support of animated beings. Even then it remains but a short time in the same condition; the minute atoms or particles of which it consists exhibit a strong tendency to separate from each other, and finally it is doomed to decompose. The prox- imate principles, sugar, starch, gluten, &c. are, under the influence of moisture, air, and wai-mth, resolved into the elements of which they are formed, oxygen, hydrogen, carbon, and, in a few cases, nitrogen, which, absorbing oxygen from the atmosphere, again unite into new compounds, as carbonic acid gas, carburetted hydrogen gas, aqueous vapour, &c. If these changes happen while the dead vegetable continues upon the surface of the ground, the new combinations, being gaseous, are volatilised, disappear, and mingle with the atmosphere; nothing remaining except a small.quantity of carbon, which composes a part of the black vegetable mould, together with a minute portion of earths, alkali, and metallic oxides that were constituents of the plant. It is to this natural decomposition that we apply the terms decay and rotting of these bodies. 3069. But previously to this final destruction, or rather resolution, of these substances by 1 natural decomposition, the component parts of vegetables go through several very curious I changes, in which they linger, as it were, for a while, before the final separation takes I place; and it is to these alterations that we are now about to direct our attention. 3070. Vegetable substances differ much in their tendency to undergo these chatiges. Wood, I for instance, which consists chiefly of ligneous fibre, will remain for ages without perishing : I the same is the case with resin, camphor, and some others, though mixed with water; oils ; absorb oxygen from the atmosphere, and alter slowly into resins. On the contrary, starch, ssugar, gum, and gluten, or substances containing them, if kept moist, very soon exhibit a I disposition to change ; a peculiar internal motion takes place, a degree of heat is excited, sand the substances are said to ferment. 3071. In general the pure proximate principles of vegetables alter but slowly by them- sselves. But it is when they are mixed together that the fermentation is most perceptible, aand the change most remarkable. Thus, when gluten is added to a solution of sugar aand water, the liquid soon runs into vinegar, or into alcohol and vinegar. 3072. The complicated pans of plants, in which the various proximate principles are aalready mixed by nature, especially the liquid parts, exhibit the finest specimens of fifermentation ; such as the sap of trees, the juices of fruits, the decoctions of leaves, seeds, >s&c. It is from such natural and artificial mixtures that we obtain all the products of !.fermentation which mankind has applied to useful purposes. 3073. This fermentation, though frequently brought on by art, is, in fact, a, natural operation, nand all that we can do is to put substances into the conditions necessary for its action, lit is the result of laws established in nature, which we cannot alter in any degree. It is I usual to consider fermentation as consisting of successive changes, forming so many steps '■or stages in the process ; each of these products being extremely different. 3074. The first stage is called vinous fermentation, because it is that by which wine is I produced ; and it might with propriety have been called the spirituous or alcoholic stage, because through it alone spirit is formed, not only in wine, but in evei-y other liquor containing spirit. The second is named the acetous fermentation, the result being acetic i icid or vinegar : and the last is the putrefactive fermentation, because putridity is the ;onsequence. These several stages usually follow each other in the order just mentioned. iThe vinous begins; and this, after a time, passes into the acetous stage, and that into the "Jutrid. 307.5. TJterc arc but a few of the proximate principles of vegetables which are capable of N n