1210 PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. Book XXVL to the head and bowels, to give mercury in a more active form, and in fact to employ energetic treatment. Supposing that the -vrarning symptoms we have described are over- looked or do not occur, certain symptoms ensue which indicate more directly the affection of the brain : the head gets hot, particularly at the front and back of the head; there is constant vomiting; increased heaviness; at times the child cries violently ; the light seems to hurt the eyes; the pupil of the eye is contracted; soon afterwards there is complete stupor, squinting, screaming, perhaps convulsions ; the pupil is now dilated, not contracted ; the pulse is irregular; the feet and hands become cold; the child seems sinking. Sometimes after this there appears to be a great improvement; the pulse rallies; the hands and feet recover their warmth; the extreme drowsiness and stupor disappear ; the child sits up, recognises the bystanders, speaks rationally, takes its medicine, and hopes, unfortunately unfounded, are excited in the breasts of all but the medical attendant; for speedily the stupor returns, the pulse grows weaker, even than before, a deadly paleness spreads from time to time over the drawn and emaciated coun- tenance, cold perspirations bedew the skin with a clammy moisture; the convulsions, which may never have entirely ceased, augment in violence, and cease only with the increasing stupor, or terminate with life. This " lightening before death," as it is called in some parts of England, is, however, not very common ; more generally the symptoms of stupor and convulsions never pass off, and death ensues suddenly in an attack of con- vulsions. The treatment of this advanced stage of the disease of course will not be described. Medical men should always be in attendance during the whole of the disease. 7156. Remittent fever in infants.—Our space compels us, somewhat reluctantly, to shorten our remarks on this very common affection. It is a disease most frequently seen between the ages of two and six. There are two chief forms in which it appears; in one case its attack is sudden, in the other gradual. In the first, or sudden form of attack, the child goes to bed apparently in perfect health, but in an hour or two is found with a burning dry skin, a flushed face, and a quickened pulse ; there is headache; the eyes seem red, and turn away from the candle ; the chUd is very thirsty; restless; even a little delirious ; there is pain in the stomach, and perhaps vomiting of a sour greenish or yellow liquid. Such an attack may generally be traced to over eating, or to the assumption of rich and highly-spiced food, or perhaps after a meal of the usual kind the child has been exposed to cold and damp. If the attack seems to originate from a surfeit, then an emetic of ipecacuanha should be given, the dose the same as that mentioned under the head of " inflammation of the brain." After this an aperient of castor oil is useful The warm bath should be used once or twice. The next morning the child may appear quite recovered, and sometimes really is so, but more frequently the feverish symptoms return in the evening, although perhaps not in so intense a degree. A few days' absti- nence, mild aperients, and the warm bath, will usually set everything to rights, but the attendance of a medical man is generally necessary. The gradual form of remittent fever presents symptoms strikingly similar to those described under the head of " premonitory symptoms of inflammation of the brain ;" and indeed there is no doubt that these two diseases are convertible into each other. This form of disease is often left after measles, scarlatina, hooping cough, or any affection which exhausts the strength of the child. There is loss of appetite, a furred tongue, and fcEtid breath, costive, or, more generally, loose bowels and feverishness, increased, it may be, at some particular periods of the day. After a time the abdomen becomes enlarged; the child gets emaciated, and the skin hangs in folds, giving an aged appearance to the aspect; there is a hacking cough ; restlessness ; and perhaps great thirst; and, it may be, even a great craving for food, and much irritability if it be not immediately obtained ; but more commonly there is loss of appetite ; there is also very generally a propensity to pick the nose, upper lip, and any sore place or spot upon the skin. Treatment is often very successful; it is, however, diversified, and the attendance of a medical man is always necessary. The bowels should be kept open by rhubarb and castor oil; gentle doses of the grey powder (mercury with chalk) given every night; and the warm bath be used regularly twice a day. The diet should be very mild ; barley water, thin arrow- root, and, when convalescence is approaching, chicken or veal broth. After a time tonics become very useful, but these at first must be of the mild and unirritating kind. In more severe cases of infantile fever, the treatment is somewhat different; leeches and other lowering measures become useful; and medical attendance is necessary to prevent the disease from running on into a chronic and dangerous form. SuBSECT. III.— Commencement of some Diseases which few Children escape. 7157. Small-pox.—The symptoms, in an unvaccinated individual, which would lead one to believe that an attack of small-pox is about to occur are the following. There is for some days after exposure to infection, a degree of languor and lassitude, feebleness of the limbs, restlessness at night, and it may be, a little loss of appetite and nausea after taking