1089 Chap. VIII. CONSTRUCTION OF WASH-HOUSE, ETC. draw out the upper straws, and run in some cotton to secure it; after which tlie remain- ing straws may be taken away, and the work is complete. Some persons hold the board in the steam of a kettle for some time, and then dry it before the fire, in preference to ironing it; others sprinkle it with starch, gum, or rice water, before ironing. 6513. Plaiting and crimping are operations which have been long in use. There is reason to think, from their sculpture and paintings, that the Egyptians plaited their drapery; and other ancient nations followed occasionally a similar practice. In Queen Elizabeth's time they used for this purpose what are called poking sticks, which were first made of wood or bone, and afterwards of steel; and the ruffs then in vogue were plaited with great care. 6514. Mangling is a mode of smoothing linen that gives a beautiful flatness and even gloss not to be etfected by ironing, and it is used on this account, as well for expedition in all the larger articles, such as table and bed linen, as well as various articles of dress ; but things of a delicate tissue, or where there are folds and plaits, cannot be mangled with- out injury. The best construction of mangles will be described when we treat of the furniture of the laundry. CHAP. vin. CONSTRUCTION OF THE WASH-HOUSE AND LAUNDRY, AND DESCRH'TION OF THE FURNITURE AND APPARATUS USED. In the most complete establishments, these olfices are always detached from the house. 6515. Hie wash-house may be Jilted up in the following manner: — The floor should be of Yorkshire or other stone, laid with a sharp current towards a sink-stone, for the con- venience of keeping it as dry as possible. In the roof there may be a cistern for rain water, which may be collected from this and the adjoining buildings; or if that be incon- venient, a tank may be formed in the ground, with a pump to raise up the water. 6516. The copper for heating the water should be placed lower than the supply cistern iu the roof, whether of rain or other water; and on a lower level than that should be the copper for boiling the clothes, so that the latter may be filled from the former by a pipe, which will save much trouble. In some cases a filtering apparatus may be useful in case of sediment or impurities iu the cistern. On a small scale, the copper is generally made round; but when very large, an oblong form is preferable, on account of the setting in brickwork and the economy of fuel. In that case, the cover may be hinged, and made to open by a rope and puUey. A steam rim, such as that described under " Kitchen Fur- niture," may surround the edge, to prevent the steam from coming into the wash-house, except when it is opened. The copper for boiling the Imen should be furnished with a copper cullender for holding the linen, which should be drawn up by a jack and pulleys. The jack should have a ratchet to keep the cullender suspended over the copper till the water is drawn from the linen, which can then be turned out altogether into the rinsing tub ; by which the usual mode of poking the linen out by a stick, which sometimes injures it, is avoided. All the coppers should be furnished with brass cocks to let off the water. 6517. A portable copper is very useful for heating water for washing, where there is no fixed one, and likewise on many other occasions where boiling water is wanted. The copper, a. fig. 824., is suspended by its rim in a cylinder of sheet-iron which contains the -I tire. In the manner in which they are usually made, this iron gets extremely hot, sometimes red hot, and not only heats the apartment intolerably, if small, but is very apt to set fire to the clothes of those who use it. This apparatus would be much improved by lining the part which contains the fire with brick about two inches in thickness, as at b c. Windsor brick should be used, that bear the fire, and are so soft as to be cut. This would prevent the over heating of the iron cylinder, would make it last much longer, and would cause the water to boil sooner. The weight of the apparatus would, of course, be a little increased; but this inconveni- ence would be trifling. 6518. The wash-tubs, large and small, are usu- 4 A «