CONVALESCENCE. Chap. VII. 1253 prevent the patient from lying too much on the back, else the issues may become trouble- some stres, and nearly impossible to be cured. We shall not describe here the mode of dressing issues, because the surgeon who makes them can explain this in a few words. For further information the reader is recommended to consult " The Domestic Manage- ment of the Sick Room," by Dr. A. T. Thomson. CHAP. VIL CONVALESCENCE. 7339. The period of recovery is a most important time, and often requires as much care as the disease itself; the body is weak, susceptible of impression, disposed to take on morbid actions, and in some instances a relapse into its previous state may occur from causes which in its healthy condition would not at all aifect the body. The management of convalescence is so extensive a subject, so diversified, and requires so much medical knowledge, that it is quite impossible to enter fully into it in a book intended to be popular; our observations, therefore, will be of a simple and general kind. Sect. I. DIET IN CONVALESCENCE. 7340. After a disease has been subdued, the appetite returns : the object of food is to restore gradually the waste which the body has sustained ; the kind of food must be left to the medical attendant, as it will differ in different cases; and for much useful informa- tion on this subject, we refer to Book VIL " On Food." The food must be nutritious and easily digestible, but at the same time quite unstimu- lating; in the early days of convalescence, wine, spirits, or malt liquor, are generally quite inadmissible, except in convalescence from low fevers. In convalescence after fever, but particularly after typhus fever, the quantity of food must at first be very small, and gradually increased : the appetite is usually extremely keen, and relapses are more often brought on by excess in diet than by any other cause. The digestive organs being weakened, and unable fully to perform their office, it is quite impossible that the quantity of food which the patient would take, were it allowed, can be digested; it lies, therefore, in the stomach, causing a load and weight there, and producing sickness and depression, or, passing beyond the stomach, it induces irritation in the intestines and diarrhoea ; when it is known that the intestines are particularly affected in typhus fever, it is at once apparent why an excess of food is so particularly hurtful in convalescence from that complaint. 7341. In recovery from all fevers, patients must take food frequently, and in very small quantities at a time ; they should never be left a whole night without food. When meat is allowed, poultry and game are usually the first things given ; the latter is reckoned more stimulating than the former. With regard to the time of taking these, or fish, &c., we shall make no remarks in this place ; we wish only to insist upon a most important statement, namely, that in recovery from fevers more harm is done by over-feeding than by any other mistake in treatment; people in general have a dread of debility, that leads them without the advice of the physician to commence stimulating diet, and in their eagerness to escape one evil they often fall into another, which has consequences much more dangerous and irretrievable. Sect. IL exposure to cold. 7342. This must be particularly avoided in recovery after typhus or scarlatina ; in the latter disease it often brings on the dropsy, formerly mentioned. Sect. IIL exehcise. 7343. Exercise must be gradually taken after fevers, and still more -cave must be employed in recovery from inflammation in the chest i in these latter cases a warm shel- tered sea-coast, as the Cove of Cork, Hastings, or the Undercliff in the Isle of Wight, is the best situation for recovery. We need hardly mention warm clothing as essentially necessary to recovery. The advantages of cheerfulness, of forgetfulness of invalid feel- ings, must be sufficiently obvious. Travelling is useful in some cases of advanced con • valesceuce, and particularly after recovery from disorders of the digestive organs. 4 1, 3