72 ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. and to allow the chimney-sweeper to ascend the flue, an opening was left, closed up by a loose piece of stone, as shown in the section, which was taken down when the chimuey was to be swept, but replaced when that was done : by this contrivance, the di-aught in the throat was very much increased, and by this simple means alone, the greatest number of smoky chimneys were cured. 4. The bottom of the grate was considerably lowered, and brought down to within six or eight inches of the floor, by which the hearth and floor of the room was much more warmed. 5. By using as little iron as possible in grates, and fitting up their interior with fire-brick, they were made not only to throw out more heat into the room, but also to make better fires. Thousands of old chimneys were altered according to these principles ; the number of smoky chimneys cured all over the kingdom is scarcely conceivable ; and much good, upon the whole, has resulted from these ideas having been, at least partially adopted. The jaumbs of chimneys are now almost universally Rumfordized, as it is termed ; that is, made inclmed when grates are set; and, in the best fire-places, the fires are kept lower, as well as the mantles. The throats are frequently contracted, though seldom, if ever, completely in the Rum ford manner. But one of the greatest improvements in fire- places, namely, making the fire bum against brick or stone instead of iron, is that which is most neglected. Although some mechanics were at first instructed in the principles upon which Rum- ford fire-places should be executed, yet, from the opposing interests of trade, and the almost total absence of scientific knowledge in that class of persons on whom their con- struction usually devolves, these lessons have been long ago almost entirely forgotten. Since the time when Count Rumford left this country, new generations have grown up, a large proportion of whom are imacquainted with his merits, and almost with the very name of Rumford. The limits and nature of this work will not admit of our going into all the details re- specting chimneys, necessary to be understood by the bricklayer and other mechanics, in constructing and altering them so as to cure all their defects ; but we shall lay down their leading principles. 324. In investigating the best form of a chimney fire-place, it is necessary to keep in i-ieio that the objects to be attained are, that the room should be warmed as completely as possible, and in such a manner that the air may be preserved perfectly pure and fit for respiration, free from smoke and all disagreeable effluvia, and this with the greatest economy of fuel. 325. It may perhaps at first seem superfluous to enquire in what way an open fire warms a room; but a more careful consideration of the matter wUl show that it is highly deserving of the most attentive examination. Here we must refer the reader to what we have already stated in the article " Heat," as to the manner in which it is propagated, by radiation, reflection, and conduction. Bays of heat are projected in aU directions from the fire ; but the rays which are directly radiated have no efiect in warming the air through which they pass, on account of its transparency, as has been already shown; and it is only when the rays impinge against, or strike upon, a solid substance, that they produce any eS'ect. In this manner, then, projected rays warm the floor and sides of the apartment, and the various articles of furniture : and these, having first absorbed the heat, give it out again to that portion of the air in contact with them. It is of the first importance to understand this fact; that it is not the air which warms the room in the case of an open fire, but the room that warms the air. It is true that the grate itself, becoming very hot, must heat the air in immediate contact with it; but this heated air, rising immediately, goes almost all up the chimney, and is therefore nearly lost to the room : the iron likewise projects radiant heat, but this is in too small a quantity to have any effect worth mentioning. Besides the heat that proceeds in a radiant form immediately from the fire, another portion of heat is reflected from the back and sides of the grate, and also from the jaumbs or sides of the chimney. With respect _ to what is reflected from the inside of the grate, here the -importance of brick or stone is ' shown : for these materials, being non-conductors, do not absorb so much heat as iron (a conductor) does; therefore, they throw it off; and when they become red hot, they radiate much heat: and this is the reason why they are preferable to iron, the latter material absorbing much, and seldom becoming so hot as to radiate in proportion. 326. The inclined jaumbs, or covings, of Count Rumford likewise reflect more heat into the room than those formerly used, which were at right angles to the front: and they assist also in preventing smoke. The proper angle is 130° with the back. They should always be flat : curved covings, which we sometimes see, were condemned by Count Rumford, as occasioning eddies that often cause smoke to come into the room. 327. The importance of keeping the fire as low as possible must be obvious, when it is considered that air expands by heat, and then becomes specifically lighter : now, whatever jiart is made lighter than the rest, will rise upwards, as oil will rise in water. Hence the lightest and warmest air is always at the top or ceiling of the room, and the