311 GLASS. CuAP. XVI. X 4 light so as to becomi; a mirror; but the silvering causes it-to reflect the light in all posi- tions. The manner of applying the amalgam is peculiar. The tin is reduced by ham- mering into leaves as thin as paper; but as any joinings in these leaves would produce unpleasant lines upon the mirrors, it is necessary to have a single leaf of tin as large as the mirror to be silvered. The leaf is then laid on a very smooth stone table covered ■with paper, and surrounded by a border of wood; mercury is then poured over it to the thickness of a line, and spread even with a roll made of cloth. The glass, properly . ground and polished, is now to be slid in horizontally over the mercury, by one side of the wooden border being removed, but so carefully that it shall not touch the tin, and prevent any bubbles of air getting between. Care must be taken, likewise, that the glass ; should push before it any oxide of tin or dust that may be on the surface ; for if this : should adhere to the glass, it would form a blemish in the silvering that could not be remedied. When the plate of glass is completely over the amalgam, it is allowed to sink I upon it by its weight, and the mercury that is thus forced out flows into a channel in the ■ wooden border. The glass, being now covered with flannel, is loaded with weights 1 placed all over the surface, and is at the same time tilted a very little to permit the quick- : silver to drain oiF. After it has remained in this situation for a day, it is gently raised ; and cautiously removed, to be set up in a wooden frame for the soft pasty amalgam to i harden. It is some considerable time before this has acquired its utmost degree of firm- 1 ness ; and globules of fluid mercury have been seen to drip from new mirrors even after I they have been set up in a room ; small portions of the amalgam are at the same time : apt to be detached by any sudden concussion or jarring, — defects which cannot be mended I by any patching, without leaving lines of junction visible. Glass mirrors have been 1 made by the British Plate Company as large as 160 inches by 80 inches; value, 240/. Sect. XI. GLASS USED AS TABLE FURNITURE. 1378. The use of glass in furniture is too well known to require much illustration. ■ We shall confine ourselves, therefore, to an enumeration of the various articles in common 1 use. Mirrors have been already mentioned for chandeliers and other holders for lights i in Section on Lamps. Glass for the table consists of, decanters for the usual wines, a, fig. ■ 496.; ditto for claret, 6; liquor bottles,r; water jugs, e, c; pickle glasses, fZ; finger cups,e; (custard cups, (/, e; cruet glasses,/, g, h, i; tumblers, k, I; wine-glasses of various kinds, im, n, 0, including those of green glass ; butter basins, p, q; s, salad basins, &c.