ON FOOD. Book VII. 456 ables, particularly fern in mountainous districts ; and wood cukes of any kind contain potash, to which they owe their detergent quality. Salt of Uirtar has been mentioned as an impure carbonate of potash. See farther, Book XXII. •' Economy of the Laundry." 239(3. We will now say something of the most remarkable of those substances to which the term vegetable alkalies is at present restricted. 2307. Morphia—It is well known that certain plants, as opium, possess a principle that induces sleep, called the narcotic principle, and which if taken in a large quantity occasions death. This principle has lately been detached from all others, and named Morphia, from Moriiheus, the god of sleep. It is now asceruincd that morphia, if employed as a medicine in lieu of opium, produces the soothing ell'ccts of that drug without the usual feverish excitement, heat, and headach. ■ 23U8. Quinia and Cinchonia—These alkaline suhsfances are supposed to contain the febrifuge virtues of Peruvian bark, from which they are extracted. United to sulphuric acid, forming sulphate of quinia and cinchonia, they are considered as more efficacious than the bark itself. 2399. Strychnia, a substance extremely poisonous, is extracted from the fruit of the Nta vomica, St. Ignatius's l3ean, and other plants of the genus Strychnos. 2400. Veralria, another poisonous substance found in the root of white hellebore (Veratrum album) and meadow saffron (Colchicum autunnialc), which last also contains colchica. 2401. Emetia, a principle extracted from ipecacuanha, and which is the cause of the emetic properties of that root. 2402. Picrotonia, the bitter poisonous principle of the Cocculus indicus. 2403. Solania, the poison of the woody nightshade. 2404. Cynupia, procured from the lesser hemlock (.£thusa Cynapiura). 240.5. Conia, from hemlock (Conium maculalum). 2406. Atropia, from belladonna (Atropa6r//rtrfowna). 2407. Ht/oscyama, from henbane (Hyoscyamus niger). 2408. Daturia, from stramonium (DMura stramonium). Sect. XVIII. BITTER PRINCIPLE. 2409. It was formerly supposed that there was one peculiar principle that occasioned the bitter taste, and which was the same in all plants; but chemists are now of opinion that there is no such determinate principle common to all vegetables; and that the bitter taste proceeds from principles varying perhaps in each plant. There are therefore various bitter principles which have different properties. The bitter is intense in quassia, and is called quassin. Dr. Thomson thinks it is probable that hops, gentian and broom contain the same bitter principle. Another called caffein is found in coffee. Scillitin is the bitter principle of squills. Many varieties of the bitter principle are deadly poisons, as strychnia, the bitter of the Nux vomica; morphia of opium. Nicotin is a poisonous principle extracted from tobacco. It is important to notice these facts, since very erro- neous reasoning has been founded upon the supposition that there was one distinct bitter principle having always the same properties. Sect. XIX. A FEW OTHER VEGETABLE PRINCIPLES. 2410. Extractive matter. — In works on chemistry this term has been often employed to express a peculiar supposed principle existing in plants ; but Dr. Turner and other chemists observe that it is now doubted whether there be any distinct substance to which the name ought to apply. The term extract in pharmacy originally meant any substance extracted by means of some menstruum, and therefore it varied according to the nature of that menstruum: thus there were watery extracts, and spirituous extracts, since many of the vegetable principles are soluble in water, others, as resins, only soluble in alcohol. From the descriptions given of what has been termed extractive, it appears to be very analogous to some of the bitter principles, which are not yet well understood. 2411. Caoutchouc. — This very singular substance, commonly known by the name of Indian rubber, was, not many years ago, used only to rub out black lead pencil marks ; at present its uses are very extensive, and will be noticed in various places through this work. (See Index.) It coagulates from the sap of a particular class of tropical trees, from which it flows out by incisions made for the purpose. See farther, " On Elastic Fabrics," in Chap. VIII. Book XVII. 2412. Charcoal is such portion of the lignin as has escaped complete combustion in burning vegetables, and where the carbonaceous part of it alone remains. In this state it admits of no farther spontaneous alteration, and is perfectly incorruptible. It is used for a great variety of purposes. It is an excellent substance for filtering water ; it corrects incipient putrefaction in animal substances, and is extensively used as fuel. 2413. Wood-ashes When vegetables are completely burned in the open air, all the principles above enumerated are volatilised, with the exception of the potash and soda, which have been already described, and which are separated from the ashes that remain. After these alkalies have been extracted, the remainder consists of a small portion of various earths, and even metals, particularly iron, which entered into the organic structure of the