Chap. IL PRECAUTIONS TO BE USED IN KEEPING ANIMAL FOOD. 773 grow rigid; first those of the trunk, and then of the limbs. In whatever attitude the limbs are placed at the commencement of rigidity, they continue, and hence butchers take care to dress the carcases of animals properly, while they are in a supple state. 4417. ^Vhile this rigidity continues, meat is tough, and can scarcely be made tender by any process of cookery, except by being long stewed, or being made into soup, for which it is quite proper; but if boiled or roasted in this tough state, it resists in a considerable degree the action of the gastric juice, or, in other words, it is hard to digest. If meat be kept for a few days or less, according to the weather and climate, this rigidity ceases, the flesh becomes softer; and, before long, those changes commence, which, if suffered to go on, would terminate in putrefaction. Now the moment when the meat is in the fittest state to be dressed, as being the most tender, is just before the last change commences; for it is the nature of the decomposing or putrefactive process to loosen the fibres, and dispose the muscular part to be easily acted upon by the digestive organs. It is upon this prin- ciple that animals killed by electricity and cooked immediately are found to be tender, because the electric fluid has destroyed entirely the irritability of the nervous system. 4418. But the length of time that meat ought to be kept, after it is killed, depends upon the climate, the season of the year, the weather, and the temperature, moisture, and ventilation of the place where it is kept, as likewise the particular kind of animal. In very warm climates, meat will not keep above four or five hours, and is therefore used in a more recent state than in cold countries. With us it is sooner ready in summer than in winter ; and in some animals, as in venison and game, this change is permitted to show stronger symptoms than in other kinds of meat, before it is considered as fit for the spit. But although it is proper to hang up meat for some time in the air till its fibres have lost some degree of their rigidity, yet it must be clearly understood that if it be kept so long as to lose its natural sweetness and to exhibit symptoms of putrescence, it becomes as detrimental to health, as it is disagreeable to the smell and taste. Much experience and attention to various circumstances are necessary to determine exactly how long any par- ticular joints ought to hang up in order that they may be ready against a certain day; aiid much of the success of the cook will depend upon hitting this point with precision, by using the necessary precautions. In warm weather, the change from the rigid state towards putrefaction proceeds often too rapidly, and then it requires to be checked. But a moderate reduction of temperature may be all that is required. Meat should, accordingly, be always kept in the most cool and shaded places, as a degree of temperature very little below that of the atmosphere, even 10°, is of great use in wann weather. In summer it is difficult to get meat that is not either tough or tainted, as the butcher runs great risk in keeping it sufficiently long, and is therefore glad to sell it as soon as he can. The best mode, therefore, is to buy joints as fresh as possible, and to hang them up in the larder, where the manner of proceeding must be founded upon the principles which have been alluded to. The due degree of itineration or tenderness of meat may be partly ascertained by the way in which it yields to the pressure of the finger, and by its opposing little resistance in attempting to bend the joint: fortunately the slightest degree of change beyond that can be detected by the odour. 4419. Where a regular larder is desired, its construction should be carefully attended to. It should be cool and dry, should have good ventilation by windows on opposite sides, which ought to be covered with wire cloth to admit the air, but not the flies, which lay their eggs in the meat, and occasion it to be tehat the cooks call fly-blown ; and from these eggs, if suffered to remain, maggots will be produced. Meat should be carefully examined every day in summer, wiped dry, and such bits as are beginning or seem liable to taint, particularly kernels, should be removed. It may be kept for several days more in hot weather than it otherwise would, by wrapping round it a linen cloth moistened with vinegar, or equal parts of vinegar and water ; the acid vapour keeps off the flies, and the moisture occasions cold by evaporation. The wood vinegar, or pure pyroligneous acid, may be used for this purpose. Charcoal bruised to powder has also the property of preventing meat from spoiling for some time, and, in some cases, is useful; it is im- portant that it should be fresh made, or at least heated red hot and cooled again, and spread entirely over the meat. So strong is the antiseptic power of charcoal, that meat, when but slightly tainted, may be recovered by boiling it for some minutes with some ; pieces of this material fresh burnt. 4420. To preserve fish quite fresh for a .«/ior< <mie requires even more care than meat. ' They should be kept in a very cool place, an ice-house if possible ; but if that cannot be I had, they should be laid upon a stone floor or shelf, and dipped in cold salt and -water I every night and morning. If it is necessary to keep them a few days longer, this may 1 be done by immersing them in a pickle composed of equal quantities of common vinegar, ! small beer, and water. 4421. Succulent or soft vegetables, such as cabbages, when just gathered, quickly lose 3 D 3