544 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. which the metropolis is supplied has been obtained, in consequence of the experiments made by Dr. Bostock and otlier able chemists at the request of the parliamentary cora- niissiouers appointed to enquii-e into the subject. Dr. Bostock confirmed tiie observation that when the Thames water was kept some time a species of fennentation took place, on account of the animal and vegetable matter contained in it; inflammable gas was there- fore disengaged, a disagreeable smell was given out, a scum rose to the top, and some impurities settled to the bottom. After some time, the water, by the separation of those matters, became more pure, and free from bad taste and smell, but containing more salts, and therefore harder than at first, which he considers was owing to the salts which had been contained in the organic substances, and which now remained dissolved in the water, in addition to what had been there before. The more foul the water, the more complete will be the depuration, since the fermentation is brought on by the organic matter; and hence we have an explanation of the popular opinion, which we have already mentioned, that the Thames water is peculiarly valuable for sea stores, its extreme impurity inducing the fermentative process, and thus removing from it all those substances which can cause it to undergo any farther alteration. The brown colour which this water often exhibited, after its depuration, is owing to a portion of what is called extractive matter, derived from decayed vegetable substances, and which is most abundant in the beginning of winter, when the heavy rains bring down much fallen leaves. This colour is not removed by simple boiling, nor by filtration through sand and charcoal; but a little alum or sulphate of iron boiled with the water threw down a precipitate, and left the water colourless. But this extractive, which stains the water, is not in the slightest degree injurious to health, which cannot be said of organic matter in a putrid state. Much complaint having been made respecting the general quality of the Thames water, to satisfy the public, almost all the water companies not only now filter their water before they deliver it to the houses, but most of them take their supply higher up in the river than where the water can reasonably be complained of. The West Middlesex Company, in particular, take theirs as high up as Twickenham, and, by means of filtration, deliver it in a state of purity quite unexceptionable. CHAP. II. ON FERMENTATION. Sect. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 3064. As several important processes connected with domestic economy cannot be satisfactorily explained, nor clearly understood, without adverting to the principles upon which fennentation depends, we propose in this chapter to give a rather full account of it; and we will endeavour to treat the subject-in a familiar manner, so as to be intelligible to those who have little or no previous acquaintance with chemical science. Towards the end, we shall add some observations, which, being explained only by chemical principles, may be less easily understood by the popular reader. 3065. Various beverages, such as wine, beer, spirits, &c. are the most remarkable products of fermentation ; but the. ordinary mode of making bread, the production of vinegar, and all the changes which animal and vegetable substances undergo, as well as the manner of chocking and preventing those changes, and thus preserving food from decay, also depend upon the principle of this process. From this we may perceive how much'the previous explanation of its nature will facilitate the study of several of the most important branches of domestic economy, by enabling us to distinguish the advantages and disadvantages attending particular processes which may have been recommended. 3066. Animal and vegetable substances alone are capable of fermenting; for though this term has been sometimes applied to naturiU changes in mineral bodies, it is incorrect to do so since these substances are not susceptible of the peculiar chemical actions to which the name of fermentation is now restricted. We shall at present confine ourselves to the fermentation of vegetable substances, the products of which compose a particular chiss ; and we shall treat in a subsequent part of this work of the changes incident to annual bodies, by which their decomposition or preservation must be explained. Sect. II. FERMENTATION OF VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES. Although we have already described the chemical constitution of vegetable bodies in Book VII. Chap. VII., where we considered them as food, yet, in order to give a con-