ON FOOD. 424 Book VII. land, and lias been seen in some of the rivers of France, but none have been caught so far south as the Mediterranean. ^ 2212. It is a migratori/fish, and annually ascends rivers in large shoals for the purpose ot spawning; but it is only to be found in such rivers as communicate with the sea in consequence of which it is by some considered as a sea fish. The Romans were well acquainted with it, and our English name is borrowed from their salmo. The long migration of the salmon just before the spawning season forms an interesting part of their history It IS certain they receive the principal part of their food in the sea, but it appears that the ova or eggs can only be hatched, and the young fish live, in fresh water; in the early period of a salmon's existence, salt water being fatal to it: also that the causes of the alternate migrations of salmon are the impulse of propagation, and the search after food. In their debilitated condition after spawning, when they are "out of season," they betake themselves to the deep sea, in which their haunts are not known. Having recovered their vigour, they crowd in shoals towards the coast, and roam about in the estuaries until the autumnal floods entice them to enter the rivers. While thus detained on the coast and in the estuaries, they are pursued and preyed upon by numer- ous herds of seals and grampuses, which consume many more than fall to the lot of the fishermen. The early run fish are in good condition, the roe being still small, and they then mount towards the higher and more distant branches of the river. In ascending the rivers they not only make their way against the most rapid currents, but overcome obstacles that might be supposed insurmountable. When they arrive at a waterfall or a weir, they leap out of the water to get over it. The salmon leap at Leixlip on the LiflFey is thirty feet high. When there is little water in rivers they cannot ascend, and are obliged to take advantage of freshes. Towards August and September the roe has acquired such a size as to render the fish nearly useless as food, and greatly to limit the extent of its migrations. Having- arrived at a suitable spawning ground, for which they prefer a gravelly bottom, the salmon pair, and proceed to the shallow pebbly fords at the top and bottom of pools, and then, in company, make their spawning bed, which sometimes reaches from twelve feet' in length to ten in breadth. This bed is furrowed by the parent fish working up against the stream, and the spawn is deposited and covered at the same time. This process fre- quently occupies more than a week, during which the eggs deposited by a single fish sometimes amount to the astonishing number of 20,000 ! This spawning season extends from the end of October to the beginning of February, and occurs nearly about the same time throughout all the rivers of the United Kingdom; and during this period salmon is wholly unfit for food. The parent fish, having thus accomplished the important purposes of their migration into the river, now retire into the deepest pools, where, after remaining a considerable time, they direct their course towards the sea, chiefly during the months of February, March, and April, the male fish appearing to migrate earlier than the females. The eggs of the salmon remain in the gravel for several months, exposed to the influ- ence of running water; and in the course of the month of March the fry are hatched. At first they are less than an inch in length; but upon leaving the spawning bed, they betake themselves to the neighbouring pools, where they speedily increase to two or three inches. They then appear in incredible numbers, and descend to the sea, in April, May, and June. It is said that on first meeting with the tide, they remain some days in the brackish water till they get inured to the change. At different periods of their progress, the young fry have received different names, and there have been doubts whether they all belong to the salmon or to other fish. When under two pounds weight they are called by some London fishmongers salmon peel; and when larger, but under a year old, they are termed grilse. These fish of the year breed during the first winter, and return from the sea next spring with the roe enlarged, as has been described, for the purpose of spawning, accompanied generally by the parent fish, when the season of fishing commences, and they are considered to be best as food, prior to their entering the fresh water. Thus the salmon passes the summer in the sea, or near the mouth of an estuary; in autumn they push up rivers; in winter they inhabit the pure fi-esh water: and in spring descend again to the sea. From their regular change every year fVom salt water, it might be supposed that they could not be bred and kept altogether in a fresh-water lake. The experiment, has however, been tried with success, but it is said that the fish is inferior in flavour to those which have access to the sea. 22J3. When the salmon is in the sea, and about to enter the rivers for the purpose of spawning, or shortly after entering the rivers, it is in the highest perfection; the flesh is firm and of a fine red colour, and the flavour excellent. The sides are of a bright silvery hue, with few dark spots: great numbers are caught at that time. When the fish has spawned and is returning to the sea they have fallen off in condition; the colour has become dull, and the sides are streaked all over with red and dark spots;