397 UfRDS. Chap. V. vessels under the tongue, tlie object of which is said to be to make the flesli whitei* by abstracting the blood, 'fhe method may appear cruel, but it does not appear that bleed- ing to death is attended with much pain to any animal. Sect. V. PHEASANT (Phasianus Colchicus, Linn.). 2037. This beautiful bird, adorned with rich and splendid plumage, is of the same genus with the common fowl, and crows not unlike the cock. It is said to have been dis- covered by the Argonauts on the banks of the Phasis, near Mount Ararat,.in their ex- pedition to Colchis, whence the name; and so highly was it thought of by the Greeks, that when Crasus, king of Lydia, seated on his throne in all the pomp of eastern splendour, asked Solon, then his guest, whether he had ever seen such magnificence before, the phi- losopher replied that he had seen the beautiful plumage of the pheasant, whicli he thought superior. The common European or English pheasant has been long naturalised in the warmest and most woody counties of England, and is brown with less brilliancy of colouring than some foreign varieties which have been lately introduced as fancy breeds, such as the gold and silver pheasants, natives of China, the ring-necks, natives of Tartary, the Bohemian, &c. The golden pheasant is the largest and most hardy. 2038. The common pheasants are much prized in parks for their beautiful plumage, and are carefiillij protected as game on account of the delicacy and fine flavour of their flesh. They feed upon all sorts of insects, like the peacock, as also upon small fruits and seeds, and require woods to shelter them. The cock is voracious and cruel. 2039. TTiey may be domesticated, though not easily ; but the flesh of those brought up in the house is not comparable to that of the wild pheasant. Upon this bird M. Ude ob- serves : " It is not often that pheasants are met with possessing that exquisite taste which is acquired only by long keeping, as the damp of this climate prevents their being kept so long as they are in other countries. The hens, in general, are the most delicate. The cocks show their age by their spurs. They are only fit to be eaten when the blood begins to run from the bill, which is commonly six days or a week after they have been killed. The flesh of the pheasant is white, tender, and has a good flavour, if you keep it long enough ; if not, it has no more than a common fowl or hen." It is in season from October to February, is best a year old, and fat. This bird is very common in France, and before the Revolution, used to be a great nuisance to the farmers, even near to Paris. Sect. VI. PARTRIDGE ( Tetrao Perdrix). 2040. Partridges are to be found in all the temperate countries in Europe; but are unable to sustain rigorous cold or intense heat: they are most abundant in the Ukraine. They were formerly so common in France, that the cultivators were obliged to sow three or four times the corn that was necessary to raise a crop, so destructive are they to the grain. They delight in the concealment of corn-fields, feeding, like the pheasant, upon insects and seeds, and are particularly fond of wild mustard. When the" winter comes on, they retire to the upland meadows, and hide themselves among the grass. The partridge is a timorous and simple bird, and is easily taken: it has not been domesticated, though it might be reared like the pheasant. 2041. It is not equal in point of flavour to grouse, but is considered as a table luxury in England. Partridges should be chosen young; old birds are good for nothing: when young they are generally distinguished by a dark-coloured bill and yellow legs ; as they I get older the legs turn gi-ey. There is a red-legged partridge ; but it is rare in England. ' The season for the common partridge is from September to February. Partridges, when ; young, covey together, and thus the sportsman often shoots several at once. Sect. VII. BUSTARD (^Otis tarda. Linn.). 2042. This is the largest land bird of Europe, the male weighing from twenty-five to t thirty pounds, and is a native of England. There were formerly flocks of bustards, in 1 forty or fifty, in this country, upon the wastes and in the woods, particularly in Norfolk, ' Cambridgeshire, and Dorset, as well as in various parts of Scotland ; but they are now • very rarely seen wild here, though still common on the coasts of the Mediterranean. ' The bustard runs with great rapidity, so as to elude the pursuit of common dogs ; but 1 falls a victim to the greyhound, which often overtakes it before it can commence its flight, ' the preparation for which in this bird is slow and laborious, and it flies with great diffi-