BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. G18 ■wine country in the world. The conquest of that country by the Turks destroyed this manufacture in tlie Morea; but it is still continued in Candia. The tenn is now applied to any -wines of the sweet and luscious kind. 3484. On the Crimea some good red wines are produced ; and as the climate is excel- lent, and the Russians are very desirous of wines and brandy, the cultivation of the vine is on the increase. SuBSECT. 7. — Wines of Africa. 3485. The Mahometan religion has impeded the cultivation of the vine m Northern Africa, although wine is made in a few places by Jews and others not Mahometan, as at Tituan, where it is said to equal that of Xeres. 3486. Cape wines. — At the Cape of Good Hope the goodness of the climate, and the equality of the temperature, are particularly favourable to the cultivation of the vine ; and large quantities of wine are now brought to us from thence. The Dutch were the original settlers at the Cape, and first planted vines there in 1650. But they have been extremely imprudent in their choice of situations for the vineyards, many of them being placed in rich low soils, instead of being confined to dry rocky lands; and their mode of culture proves that they were more solicitous about the quantity than the quality of their wine. To this defect has been added careless training and dressing ; in consequence of which, with a few exceptions, the wines of the Cape are at present of very inferior quality. These exceptions, however, prove that good wine may be produced in that country. The grapes originally planted were the muscadine, Frontignan, and other European varieties ; and in those parts where the soil has been congenial, and the mode of culture proper, good wine is manufactured. The best wine of the Cape is Constantia, so called from being made on two farms of that name, and about eight or nine miles from Cape Town, where the soil is stony. One farm produces red wine, and the other white. Very good wine is also produced in some other places. There is also a white wine called Cape Hock, and a red wine called Rota. Cape Madeira is said to be mixed with some boiled must; but it is likewise strength- ened by bad brandy. Most of the Cape wines brought to England have a disagreeable taste called earthy, are often acid, and want flavour; yet the smaller duty which they pay occasions the importation of an immense quantity; that annually entered for home con- sumption being about 540,000 imperial gallons, much of which is said to be employed as a convenient menstruum for adulterating sherry, Madeira, and other wines. In no other wine country is there greater room for improvement in the manufacture of wine, nor is there any place where science and care, properly directed, would produce more beneficial results. As the Cape is the only colony which we possess where the art of manufacturing wine is practised upon the great scale, it would appear to be extremely desirable that the new settlers should be made acquainted with those scientific principles which have given the French so great advantage. SuBSECT. 8. — Wines of Asia and America. 3487. It does not enter into our plan to follow up this sketch of an account of the principal wines of Europe, by noticing all those in the other quarters of the globe, yet it would seem imperfect, were these entirely omitted. 3488. Persia is supposed by some to have been the native country of the vine, and cer- tainly it grows there with unequalled luxuriance, the grapes attaining an extraordinary size. The Persians have always been less scrupulous observers of the precept of the Koran, which forbids the use of wine, than other Mussulmans; many of them indulge freely in this beverage, and suppose that they evade the law by drinking only what is made by Jews or Armenians. The white wine of Shiraz has a high celebrity, and a great deal of it is sent to the East Indies in bottles. A fine sweetish red wine is made near Ispahan. These are the only wines at present made in Persia. Some wine is made in the Crimea belonging to Russia. In 1831 no less than 9,600,000 bottles of red wine called Kokour were ))roduced in that province. 3489. The other wines of Asia are few and little known. Syria produces red and white ■wines like Bordeaux, and boiled wines are made on Mount Libanus. India produces little or no wines, except in the northern parts, near the Sutledge and Indus. At Lahore good wine is made, and also in Candahar and Cashmere; the latter resembles Madeira. Grape wine is scarcely known in China. 3490. Wine is made both in North and South America in many places. In the former the vine grows wild on the Ohio, and also in Louisiana and Florida, where the grapes attain an immense size, and wine is made, but not of the best quality. The Hock grape was introduced into Canada and Ohio by German settlers. Near AVashington is grown a species of grape named Cataroha. unknown in Europe ; and at Boston there is a good grape called Isnbellc. South America abounds in vineyards. Between Bucnos- Ayrcs and Mendosa, they are extremely productive; and wine is made of a secondary