631 DOMESTIC WINES. ( Chap. IV. tto Dr. Macculloch for drawing attention again to the subject; and he states that he has 1 made with these materials wines resembling Champagne and St. Peray, and some quite .:as good as the ordinary Cape wines, resembling them even in flavour, so as to be undistin- iguishable. Chaptal informs us, that it is sometimes the practice in France to suffer the J stalks of the grapes to remain in the fermenting vat. The roughness and austere taste V which the stems possess appear, he observes, to be an advantage to some wines, especially tto those made in the more northern districts, where the slight astringency imparted by I the stems corrects their insipidity, and appears to have the property of making them keep f better. As Dr. Macculloch speaks with the utmost confidence respecting the success of his jexperiments, we shall quote his receipt. 3546. Dr. MaccullocKs receipt for viaking wine from the haves and stalks of the vine. " The young leaves may be taken at any period from vines whicli have been cultivated for this purpose, and from which no fruit is expected. In other cases they may be obtained from the summer pruning. The tendrils and green shoots are equally useful. The claret vine may be cultivated for this purpose, in which case the wine will have a red colour. The leaves are best when young, and should not have attained more than half their growth ; they should be plucked with their stems. In the neighboiu'hood of London they require to be carefully washed to remove the taste of soot, which so often adheres to them ; sometimes that :is insufficient. From sixty to eighty pounds of such leaves being introduced into a tub of sufficient capacity, seven or eight gallons of boiling water are to be poured on them, in which they run to infuse for twenty-four ihours. Tlie liquor being poured off, the leaves must be pressed in a |)ress of considerable power ; and being subsequently washed with an additional gallon of water, they are again submitted to the action of the press. IThe sugar, varying from twenty-five to thirty pounds, is then to be added to the mixed liquors, and the quan- titv being made up to ten gallons and a half, the process which will be shown in making gooseberry wine is to be followed. Although the water is here directed to be boiling hot, it must be remembered that it is limmediately cooled down to that temperature which is most efficacious in extracting the several soluble ingredients of the fruit." S.W?. The following additional observations on this curious subject are extracted from the same author. "' The diBiereuce between young' and old leaves is very great; the former contains ten or twenty times the iquantity of bitter that the latter do. The old leaves are unfit for the ferment. June is the proper time to ipluck them; at this season it is usual to remove leaves from the fruit-bearing vines, so that they may be •easily procured : but if vines should be grown for this sole purpose, as they may be in any waste place or ihedge-row, being allowed to run wild and unpruned, it will be always easy to procure a sufficient quantity, and in the best condition. In their very best state at least six pounds are required for two of sugar, and it is ■perhaps preferable to adopt eight .md a half; though no rule can be absolute, such is the variation in the extractive produce of the leaves. In the progress of the fermentation, should the wine promise to be too sweet, from defect of ferment, it is quite easy to add a fresh infusion, so as to correct this defect by a renewal of the fermentation. Of the leaves it must be observed, as they scarcely yield anything to the press, they require to be infused in the water for some time before they are subjected to fermentation, and they seem to yield their soluble parts most readily to hot water, without any material .ilteration in the result—a matter of ino surprise, because, though the water be applied at the boiling heat, its temperature is immedi;itely lowere4. ITartar appears sometimes to be a useful addition to the leaves of the claret vine ; and it may be added in the 'proportion of half a pound or one pound to ten gallons of the must. One advantage results from the use of vine leaves — the facility with which they are reproduced during the growth of the vine. By this the produce of a small vineyard in leaves filone will be abundant; and even that of a single vine sulfered to run wild, branches and leaves will be .is great as is required for the use of most families. It must always be remem- bered that in these cases the price of the sugar is the price of the wine. The expense of utensils and labour ds comparatively trilling; and when the manufacture is upon a small scale scarcely worthy of regard." 3548. The expense of making grape wine must vary with so many circumstances, that it ■would be impossible to fix any price as a standard, but from the following statement in the " Gardener's Magazine," it would appear to be very little, at least when of moderate iquality. Materials : — Water, 4i gallons, beer measure ; Grapes, 5 gallons, beer measure, crushed land soaked in the water seven days ; sugar 17i lbs at \Q'id. The sugar came to 15s. S^d, land the grapes perhaps to 5s. The cask in which it was made held exactly 6^ gallons :beer measure, and produced thirty-four bottles of wine clear. A bottle of the above wine, .kept ten years, proved good. Excellent Champagne has been made from British grapes for a shilling per bottle land it is said that foreign grapes are now imported for this purpose. Sdbsect. 2 Raisin Wine. 3549. Since raisins are dried grapes, there appears no reason why excellent tvine should mot he made from them, as we know that it is found necessary to dry, wholly, or in part, the gra])es employed in the manufacture of the finest sweet wines of the south of Europe, las those of Cyprus, Malaga, and Tokay ; and as the dryness of wines only depends upon the fermentation being continued longer, it seems obvious that from raisins, good wines, iboth sweet and dry, may be easily produced in Britain. This, accordingly, is well known : to be done upon an immense scale in manufactories, among which that of Beaufoy has Ibeen long celebrated; but the wines thus produced are often, by cert^^in management, (Contrived to pass for foreign white wines of various denominations, instead of being sold 1 in their genuine state. The success of individuals shows that the process of making igood raisin wine is extremely easy; and any family desirous of doing so may thus ■ supply itself with genuine wine at a very moderate price. S s 4