794 Book X. ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. sugar is in considerable quantity, the success is very uncertain. Sugar also overpowers and destroys the sub-acid taste so desirable in many fruits: those which are preserved in this manner are chiefly intended for the dessert. 4548. In gathering fruit for winter store, great care should be taken not to bruise it, nor to break the skin ; the injured parts soon rot and spoil the sound fruit in contact with it. To prevent this, gardeners even have instruments for gathering the most valuable kinds of fruit from the trees, without touching it with the hand. Fruit intended to be stored should never be beat off the trees, or by shaking the branches till it drops, if this can be avoided. They are best gathered on a fine day, when they are most likely to be dry ; or if this be done on a wet day, they should be dried, in the sun if possible; the more delicate kinds do not bear to be wiped, as this rubs off their bloom, which, when allowed to dry on some fruits, constitutes a natural varnish, closing up the pores, and pre- venting the evaporation of the juices. 4549. 77(6 usual mode with apples and pears has been to lay them first in heaps for a fortnight or more, covered with mats or straw, to sweat, as it is called; that is, by a very slight fermentation to discharge some .of their juice, after which the skin contracts in a slight d-egree ; but this is now generally disapproved of, and it is thought best to carry them at once to the fruit room, where they are laid upon shelves covered with white paper, after •wiping gently each fruit. The fruit room should be dry and well aired, but should not admit the sun. The finer and larger kinds should not be allowed to touch each other, but should be kept separate ; for this purpose, a number of shallow trays should be pro- vided, supported above each other on racks or stands. There should be the means of warming the room in very cold frosty weather. Some kinds of apples and pears are gathered before they are quite ripe, and the ripen- ing is completed after they ai"e gathered ; this is termed the maturation of the fruit, and it appears to be a curious and interesting natural process. This subject has been well examined by M. Couverchel in a paper inserted in the " Annales de Chimie." He con- ceived that the acid and mucilaginous matters of fruit nearly ripe are converted into sugar by a process which is perhaps chemical, and which has been called the saccharine fer- mentation. Had such fruit remained on the tree until it was quite ripe, this fermentation would soon have passed into the putrefactive stage, and then the fruit could not be pre- served without extraordinary means, such as extreme cold, sugar, &e. In general, the apples and pears of autumn should be gathered eight days before they are ripe, and maturated in this way. In fact, there are some fruits that are never fit for eating, except they are treated in this manner. The principle of life remains in vegetables very differently from what it does in animals ; for a branch cut from a tree does not die immediately, but will grow, on being planted, into a new tree. Flowers that have been cut off when only buds, blow on being placed in water; and the head of a carrot cut off a little below the top of the root, if placed in a shallow basin of water, will put out leaves, and become a handsome ornament. Mr. Knight is of opinion that in the case of the ma- turation of fruit, it still continues to be in a living state though taken from the tree, and that the saccharine matter is formed in the same manner as it would if growing. Pears kept for maturation may be packed carefully with dry moss, bran, or sand dried in an oven, in baskets lined with stout paper; straw is apt to communicate a mouldy taste. They will keep in this way through the winter. Choice apples and pears are sometimes wrapt singly in paper, and put into glazed jars, with covers. When there is no fruit room, a cool cellar may be used, or they may be kept in baskets packed in dry straw and kept in a diy cool room. 4550. Pine-apples maij be kept a considerable time by twisting out their crowns, which, being very ornamental, are generally suffered to remain ; but in time they will destroy all the juice of the fruit by living upon it. 4551. Oranges and lemons may be preserved a long time wrapped up singly in paper, packed in dry sand or jars, and kept in an equal temperature. 4552. The free access of the atmosphere being one of the circunlilances essential to the decomposition of animal and vegetable matter, it is obvious that the exclusion of it must prevent this effect from taking place, and that consequently if such substances arc com- pletely kept from the contact of air, they cannot change, or at least in a verj' inconsi- derable degree. At a certain depth below the surface of the earth, the temperatm-e does not vary, summer nor winter, and it is never so cold there as to freeze. This fact has been taken advantage of in the preservation of provisions. In many parts of Europe, vegetables, such as potatoes, turnips, carrots, onions, &c., are preserved for one or more years by burying them in deep pits in a clay soil, which they burn hard before using, or even in a dry sandy soil. Caves form excellent cellars, on account of the equality of their tGnipcFiVturG. 4553. Receipts have been often given, for preserving fruit and vegetables throughout the winter upon this principle ; "such as apples, pears, cherries, gooseberries, currants, green peas, cranberries, &.c.