312 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. CHAP. XVII. ON PLATIi. Sect. I. GENERAL REMARKS. 1379. There are very few domestic establishments in -which the expense of plate does not form a considerable portion of that of the furniture ; and much judgment is required in selecting it. Plate includes all those articles which are made of the precious metals; table services of all kinds, spoons, forks, dessert knives, ladles, fish slices, candlesticks,' snulfer-stands, bread-baskets, waiters, &c. Our object will be to convey a just idea of the relative value and qualities of articles of this kind executed in various materials, by treating in a general way of their manufacture. In the highest classes of society whole services of gold and silver are used ; and in almost all families there are certain articles of table furniture made of these metals: but the arts of gilding and plating are now executed in such perfection, that much expense is saved by resorting to substitutes with little loss of appearance. We shall first treat slightly of the business of the goldsmith. Sect. II. GOLDSMITH. 1380. The Goldsmith is the artist who makes vessels, utensils, and ornaments in gold and silver ; for he at present sometimes includes the silversmith. In London he employs several persons under him for the various articles of his trade : the jeweller, the silver- turner, the gilder, the burnisher, the chaser, the refiner and gold-beater, are all employed by him. Formerly, before glass was so abundant and so beautiful, drinking vessels, made of the precious metals, were much more in request among opulent persons than at pre- sent ; and there was a prevailing taste for massive silver tankards and cups, which extended even to the taverns to such a degree, that in 169C the use of silver plate (spoons excepted) was prohibited in these places. During the middle ages the goldsmiths were persons of great importance : they were the only bankers of the time ; and it was through their agency that sovereigns and their opulent subjects transacted pecuniary business with one another. Many of them excelled greatly in the fine arts ; of whom the celebrated Tuscan, Benvenuto Cellini, was a remarkable example. It is difiicult to conceive the vast amount of the precious metals laid up in churches during this period, in the form of sta- tues, sacred vessels, and votive gifts. 1381. Articles made of gold are ornamented in two ways; either by designs cut into the work, and called engraving; or by making the orpaments rise above the surface in relief. 1382. Engraving on gold was practised at a very early period, particularly in Italy ; and it is a remarkable fact that it was this kind of engraving that gave rise to the art of pro- ducing prints by engraving on copper; but it was long before it occurred to anj' one, that by filling the lines so engraved with a thick ink, and pressing them upon paper, an impression or print could be produced: and it was accident alone that gave rise to this valuable discovery. 1383. Wlien ornaments were to be in relief, they were at first cast in moulds; and we find the terms molten and beaten gold used by writers of antiquity; denotmg that the processes of casting and hammering were employed in working this metal. Articles are very rarely, however, now cast in solid gold, owing to the great shrinking that takes place on the cooling of the metal in the mould, in consequence of which it is difiicult to obtain that sharpness of impression that is desirable; as well as the gi-eat expense of the metal. The most usual method is to roll out the gold into thin plates, and to strike up the figures in relief from behind. This process is termed chasing or embossing, and is a very ingenious part of the goldsmitii's art; to which those of former times were much indebted for the perfection of their works. The vessels upon which it was employed were of extraordinary value ; and when these were executed in the first style of art excited universal admiration. Fine examples of these may be seen in the superb table services of the British sovereign, and in those of the various princes of Europe, as well as in many private hands, especially in the plate repositories of gold- smiths. . . 1384. To perform the embossing, the body of the design is bulged out from the mside by the application of a hammer ;' the vessel is then filled up with a composition of pitcli and ashes, and rested upon a sand bag. The parts to be sunk, in order to produce tlu'