FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Rook XVII, 956 beg<an to be exported in considerable quantities ; mixed eloth in particular, for which the ■west of England has ever since been celebrated. In 1770, the exports of woollen fabrics of different kinds amounted in value to four millions annually ; and in 1833, according to Mr. M'CuUoch, the value of woollen goods manufactured was twenty-one millions sterling, of which about six millions are exported. 5617. Tke inventions of Arhivright for the carding and spinning of cotton wool were soon modified to suit the wool of the sheep, and produced an entire revolution in the woollen and worsted trade. Since that time, instead of the hand-spinning described in Chap. I., the mechanical powers of water and steam having been applied to drive machinery for that purpose, and the localities of the woollen manufacture have moved into those coun- ties where water and coal are plentiful; also the permission to export, which was for- merly refused, being granted, English cloth and other woollen goods find markets all over the world. The improvements made within twenty years in the quality of our best broad cloths are very considerable, partly on account of superior machinery, and partly from the several processes being better understood. Sect. II. ON THE NATURE OF 'WOOL, AND THE VARIOUS KINDS OF IT. 5618. Wool is a kind of soft hair which grows upon the skins of several ruminating animals, particularly sheep, the lama, the Angora goat, and the goats of Thibet. The dis- tinction between wool and hair is rather arbitrary than natural, consisting in the greater or less degrees of fineness, softness, and pliability of the fibres. When the fibres possess these properties so far as to admit of their being spun and woven into a texture sufficiently pliable to be used as an article of dress, they are called wool. Both coarse and fine fibres are often found on the same animal, one of which might be called hair and the other wool: many of the asses and even oxen of this counti-y have soft woolly tufts on some parts of their skins ; and this is more the case with the oxen of Thibet and the asses of Chili. The fleeces of sheep vary much in the degree of fineness in different parts of the body. 5619. Sheep's wool in its present state appears to have been in a great measure the product of cultivation; for we know of no wild animal that resembles the wool-bearing sheep. The Argali, from which all the varieties of sheep are supposed to be derived, is covered with short hair, at the bottom of which, close to the skin, there is a softer hair or wool. This is not peculiar to the argali: almost all quadrupeds inhabiting cold climates are covered in the same manner with a soft hair, which is protected by a coat of longer and coarser hair. By removal to a temperate climate, or when placed under the fostering care of man, secured from the inclemencies of the weather, and supplied regularly with food, the coarse long hair falls off, the animal retaining only the softer and longer hair or wool. On the contrary, European sheep removed to tropical climates, and much exposed to the heat, lose their soft fleece, which is succeeded by a covering of short hair. The goat of Thibet, which produces the extremely fine wool of which the Cashmere shawls are made, lives near to the tropics; but the country, from its height above the sea, is extremely cold. Sheep, in exposed situations in Europe, often produce short coarse hairs intermixed with the wool, which fall off and do not grow again when the animals are removed to a warmer situation and to a richer pasture. These facts are sufiicient to prove the effects of cultivation on the fleece ; and, probably, finer wool-bearing sheep have originally become so by long-continued attention to those circumstances which have been found by experience to affect the fineness of the fleece. It is probable, however, that climate and food alone will not produce the finest wool, although it assists greatly ; and it has been shown that this is most completely obtained by a careful selection of such sheep as produce the best fleeces, and breeding from them for a few generations, until a new race is established that becomes permanent. In this manner have been procured those peculiar breeds that are now famous for their wool. 6620. Sheep's wool may therefore be considered as much an object of cultivation as any vegetable product; and it is never Ibimd of good quality except in those countries which have been the seat of the arts, and where a considerable degree of civilisation and refinement exists, or has formerly prevailed. Where the culture has been long neglected, the product is uniformly found to be deteriorated. In the flocks of Barbary and the adjoining states may be traced the offspring of a fine-wooUed race of sheep, degenerated by utter neglect, in a climate naturally unfavourable to the production of fine wool. In Sicily and the southern parts of Italy, the remains of the ancient Tarentine breed preserve to the present day a race of fine-woolled sheep greatly degenerated by neglect. In Portugal, the fine-woolled sheep retain more of their original purity, though in a state of degeneracy In Spain, where the growth of fine wool has never entirely ceased to be an object of attention, the race of fine-woolled sheep exists in a high degree of perfection. 5621. Wool like the hair of horses arid cattle, completes its growth in a ;/car, and then fails off to he succeeded by a fresh crop ; but instead of coming off partially, as hair does,