Chap. IV. FOREIGN WINES. 607 ■whereas the sparkling -wines soon spoil. Almost the whole of it goes to Paris and England. The red Champagnes are seldom brought to England ; but a few of them rival the rich ■wines of Burgundy. That of Clos de St. Thierry, near Rheims, is of a quality between Burgundy and Champagne, and is very highly prized by the connoisseur. There are also rose-coloured Champagnes ; but these are less in request. In selecting Champagne wines, many consider the briskness and effervescence as a test of their excellence ; but a good judge will prefer a liquor of moderate briskness, as the aroma evaporates with the froth. Champagne is best to be iced a little before it is used, which tends to repress the effervescence, though, when it is kept cool, this is unnecessary. The manufacture of Champagne in the best manner requires considerable skill, and is a matter of difficulty and uncertainty : it is always bottled; and the breakage is generally so great as to amount to from 10 to 20 per cent. loss. Cellars of immense size are cut in the chalk of the district where it is chiefly made, in which the temperature is very equable. 3430. Champagne intoxicates speedily, probably in consequence of the large quantity of carbonic acid which it contains, and of its alcohol being in a very volatile state ; the excitement produced by it is of a more lively and agreeable character than that which is occasioned by any other kind of wine; but its duration is shorter, and the exhaustion which follows is less. Dr. Henderson remarks, that the general opinion of its being apt to occasion gout is at variance with the fact that this complaint is very imfrequent in the district where it is made; but he likewise observes, that it is prejudicial to those habits which are liable to gout from other causes. The price of Champagne in France varies considerably, according to the scarcity or abundance of the crop. On an average, the best Champagne is sold to the dealer at 3 francs a bottle. Transportation to Paris and the Octroi bring the price to about 3^ francs ; and at the Restaurateur's it costs 6 francs. 3431. Burgundy—Vins de Bourgogne. The choicest wines of the ancient province of Burgundy, are certainly the first in the world for richness of flavour, perfume, and fulness of body, although they are not so popular in England as Champagne. These wines are both red and white. The red is most highly esteemed ; but the most exquisite of these are so delicate they can scarcely bear exportation, though, like Champagne, they are always bottled ; and to have them in perfection, they must be drunk in the country where they are made. What we call Burgundy in England is seldom of higher quality than the second or third rate wines. The best of these wines are produced in so smaU quan- tity, and are so much in request in France, that they fetch there very high prices, and do not answer much more than the home demand; consequently a very small proportion comes into our mai'ket. The finest Burgundies are produced in the department of Cote d'or in Upper Bur- gundy, and a great deal is made round the town of Beaume. There is rarely more than one kind of grape grown in this part, namely, that called noirons, the colour of which is black when ripe, and quite round. From Beaume the best wine can be procured ; it is sent in bottles above ninety miles to Auxerre, whence they pass, by means of the rivers Yonne and Seine, to Paris, and then down the Seine to Havres and London. The first in quality of these wines is the Romance Conte, but it is seldom met with ; genuine out of France. Next is the Chambertin, which, it is said, was the favourite wine ' of Louis XIV., as also of Buonaparte. The Clos Vaugeot is inferior, but more abundant. ' There are many other excellent wines of this class, scarcely known in England, and I others are of an inferior description: hence our wine merchants, who are not such good i judges of their quality as the French, are very liable to be imposed upon in purchasing t them. In the second class of red Burgundies are the Ma9on wines, also ChamboUe, '. Muscigny, and Volney. The white wines of Burgundy are less excellent, and in smaller number than the red ; ' but still some of them rank very high for their fine flavour, particularly the Mont I Rachet, La Perriere, La Goutte d'or, Les Charmes, and Chablis; these are not dear, yet : are little known in England. 3432. Bordeaux wines All those wines called in England clarets are the produce of t the country round Bordeaux, or the Bordelais : but it is remarkable that there is no pure 'wine in France known by the name of claret, which is a corruption of clairet, a term that ::is applied there to any red or rose-coloured wine. Round Bordeaux are produced a ^number of wines of the first quality, which pass under the name simply of vin de Bor- 'deaux, or have the designation of the particular district where they are made, as Lafitte, I Latour, &c. The clarets brought to the English market are in general prepared for it by Ithe wine-growers by mixing together several Bordeaux wines, or by adding to them a ■portion of some other wines ; but in France, the pure wines are carefully preserved dis- tinct. The genuine wines of Bordeaux are of great variety, that part being one of the