RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 891 Chap. I. hair sieve a little of the inside red coral spawn of the lobster, to sprinkle over the fish after it is dished. Have a fish napkin properly arranged on the fish drainer, and care- fully dish the fish. Garnish it with slices of lemion and finely-scraped horse-radish. Serve with lobster sauce. Turbots are sometimes garnished -with fried smelts, or fried gudgeons, laid so as to form a fringe round the turbot. A sole cut into strips and fried is also occasionally served with turbot. 5044. A turbot kettle should be 24 or 25 inches long, 22 wide, and 9 or 10 deep. Fish requires more cooking in cold than in hot -weather. 5045. Broiled turbot It is both difficult and inconvenient to broil a large turbot. A small one succeeds much better, or slices of a large one, dut.iched from tlie bone. When dressed in this manner it must be previously marinated, that is, so.iked in sweet oil with salt and pepper. The broiling should be conducted slowly over a clear fire. It may be served up with chopped capers and melted butter, or with Dutch sauce. 5046. Brill is dressed and served in the same -way as boiled turbot. It is a delicately flavoured fish. Any other mode of cooking it could not improve its flavour ; even sauces, if strong, are too overpowering accompaniments. 5047. CocTs head and shoulders should be tied up closely and put into cold salt and water sufficient to cover it entirely. It will require from fifteen to twenty minutes' boiling, or longer if very large. Great care must be taken to serve it without any speck of scum. Garnish it with horse-radish and wahaut pickle, and with the melt, roe, and liver. Fried smelts are sometimes added. Oyster or shrimp and anchovy sauce, scoUops, and scoUopped oysters are sometimes sent up with it. ."1048. Crimped cod may be either boiled, fried, or broiled. 5049. Baked cod. Open and clean the fish well, and put in the inside a stuffing made of two ounces of beef suet, some chopped parsley, and sweet herbs, an epg, and pepper and salt, nutmeg and grated lemon- peel. Sew up the fish when stuffed, inclose it in a buttered paper, and put it in a dish into the oven ; baste it occasionally, while baking, with melted butter. 6050. Salted cod must be well soaked in cold water for one or two nights before it Is used ; each day taking it from the water and putting it into a cold place. The Doggerbank cod are reckoned the best. They cut into large flakes, and are not stringy like the north country cod, which have been longer salted. Salted cod must be put into a kettle with cold water, and simmered, not boiled. If the water boils, the fish will be hard and thready. It is served with egg sauce, parsneps, or mashed potatoes, and garnished with hard boiled eggs cut in quarters. 5051. Cod sounds boiled. — Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water : when tender, serve them in a napkin with egg sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for a ft-icassee. 5052. Cod sounds broiled. — Scald them in hot water, and rub them well with salt; pull ofi" the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; then take them out, flour and broil them. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- spoonful of soy, and a little mustard. Give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. 5053. Boiled haddocks. — Put them into cold water with some salt in it. WJien the water begins to boil draw them away from the fire, and allow them to simmer for ten minutes. Strain them well from the water, and serve with anchovy sauce. Garnish with horse-radish and lemon. 5054. Fried haddock. — Skin the fish, and cover it with egg and bread-crumbs seasoned with salt and pepper. The pan should be moderately hot, with boiling lard or butter. SO.'iS. Baked haddock. — Fill a haddock with a stuffing of bacon, beef suet, sweet herbs chopped fine, bread- crumbs, and an egg to bind these Ingredients together. Chopped oysters and a tea-spoonful of anchovy catsup will improve the stuffing. Sew up the fish ; cover it with bits of butter, and bake it for half an hour. SO.'iC. Whitings are often used when fried as a garnish to salmon and cod, and are then skinned, curled, with the tail entering the mouth, and fried in lard or butter. If they form a dish by themselves, they are served with shrimp sauce or anchovy essence in melted butter. 5057. Soles boiled.—The largest soles are usually chosen for boiling. After they are well cleaned, rub them over with lemon-juice, and set them in cold salt and water on the fire. When they begin to boil, let the water be scummed, then simmer them only, from ten to fifteen minutes, according to their size. Fish should be boiled till the meat separates readily from the bone, and has lost all appearance of redness. An error equally to be avoided is over-boiling fish. If over-boiled, a sole cuts woolly, and has in fact lost all its flavour. Serve it with anchovy sauce, and garnish with parsley. 5058. Fried soles. — There is a considerable art in frying fish properly. The great secret consists in employing sufficient lard or oil, and also in not exposing the pan to a too fierce fire, which turns the lard brown or black. Frying is best conducted over charcoal. Before the soles are fried, beat up two eggs with a little salt; and when well mixed, rub some of this over them, and sift on them some bread-crumbs. Fry them till they acquire a bright brown. When soles arc very large and thick, it is better to divide them into two or three portions, or score them down to the bone. Proceed in the same manner to fry whilinys (which must be previously skinned), and also flounders, smelts, &c. ■ .inriO. Broiled solo—They must be previously marinated, or soaked In s.il.id oil, with some salt .-md pepper, and then broiled over a clear fire. \\ hen drciised thus, they should be served with .mchovy sauce, which it prepared in the following manner: —