225 AP. X. FURNITURE OF THE PRINCIPAL APARTMENTS.. 1044. Mtislm curtains are almost always used in the best rooms in addition to the usual iiiick curtains. They serve to shade and protect the colours of the others from the dust [lad sun, and have a clean and rich appearance. The muslin is richly flowered in large atttterns, and many persons in summer take down the principal curtains, leaving only wose of muslin : these are useful to keep out the flies when the windows are open, jurtains for this purpose are sometimes made of an open netting, which is very durable. Sect. II. ■WINDOW BLINDS. 1045. Window sim blinds are either for excluding the sun's rays, or for preventing any lae passing from seeing into apartments, at the same time permitting a view from within, oor the first purpose, they are either outside or inside blinds. 1046. Outside blinds have been already treated of in p. 57. 1047. For inside sun blinds, the Venetian are sometimes used, when it is requisite to (^clude the sun very eflectuaUy. These consist of a number of thin laths lying hori- ^untally, generally painted green, and having two pieces of tape stretching across them xom top to bottom, by which they are moved, and open to any degree, so as to let in uore or less light. These, when placed inside, do not shut out the rays of the sim so >Dmpletely as when put outside the sash ; and, though they are more accessible, they have lee inconvenience of darkening the room too much. 11048. The most usual kind for the inside are Holland blinds, which are either plain illling blinds without springs, or spring rolling blinds. The Holland is a particularly rrong linen, woven on purpose, the usual width of windows. The common roller blind - simply nailed on to a wooden roller, the lower end of the blind being kept distended by Jath passing through a broad hem. The roller at the top turns upon pivots at each end; . one end is a wooden or brass pulley, over which a smooth cord passes in a groove, and Intends also over the smaU wheel of a pulley rack fixed on the head of the sash, and hhich is so constructed that the cord can be tightened when it becomes slack. By pulling las endless cord, the blind is raised, and is pulled down by a short cord and tassel. 11049. Spring rolling blinds have a wire spring inside a tin roller, which acts so as to rrn it, and the blind is raised up by merely pulling a cord : these are much more expen- vfe than the common roller-blind, which has the advantage of greater simplicity, and :i ing less apt to be out of order. 11050. Sun blinds are likewise made of linen painted as transparencies; and some of eese are extremely beautiful, representing scenes in nature, either landscapes, interiors of liiildings, or arabesques, and are particularly convenient when it is desirable to exclude le view of disagreeable objects. They are put upon rollers in the same manner as other iiinds, being painted in varnish that does not crack in rolling. 11051. Short blinds to prevent seeing in, generally reaching half up the lower sash, ee sometimes made as low curtains of muslin with a frill, and stretched on a brass rod rross the window ; but the better houses have either Venetian blinds of short perpendi- 'ilar laths, or blinds made of woven wire, or pierced zinc, put into a mahogany frame, coven wire makes an excellent blind, bemg desirable, and admitting of being ornamented painting in oU upon it. They are not apt to be out of order, as is the case with Vene- irji blinds, without great care, Section III. CARPETS AND RUGS. 11052. In no country are carpets in such general use for covering the floors as in Eng- : id. In Asia, where they were first invented, they are seldom used except to sit or sleep ««n. Before the use of carpets, the floors of the best houses in Europe were laid with tvken boards in the manner called marqueteric, and they were generally kept highly iilished with wax, which sometimes caused them to be unpleasantly slippery. It is uircely yet a century since the first appearance of carpets in this kingdom ; and at "esent it is computed that in England and Scotland there are two hundred millions of ' rds in constant wear. 11053. The manufacture of carpets was introduced into France from Persia by Henry IV., 4d a magnificent royal manufacture exists at present at Aubusson, in the south of lance, where carpets of the most superb description are made, in the manner of velvet, Id also in that of the tapestry of the Gobelins. They are generally ornamented with ■signs after the antique arabesque. But these luxurious articles are necessarily confined the opulent; and a great majority of the people of the middling classes in France •ircely know the use of carpets, which are so general with us, tiled floors being the -ist common among them; of late, however, the great influx of English has caused