QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD. 379 :HAP. III. 1874. The skins, besides being saleable, are useful in a family for lining night-gowns, ad other domestic piu'poses. Sect. VIII. HARE {Lepus timidus, Linn). 1875. T7ie common hare is found over the whole of Europe, andSn almost the whole of Ksia, in North America, and even in Chili. In the polar regions it becomes white in the eginning of winter. It is usually a wild" animal, and is taken by hunting in various lodes: hence the price of the hare is much greater than that of the rabbit. It is seldom omesticated, though it is capable of being made extremely tame, and is then a remarkably iayfiU animal. An attempt has been made to breed hares in warrens like rabbits; and ome are of opinion that this might be practicable in certain dry situations; but confine- lent always injures their flavour: those which live in mountains are superior to those ;hich are found in low grounds. They do not burrow under ground like rabbits, but .lake a slight depression, called their ybrm, in which they rest: its quickness of sight and rearing, and its timidity, are well known. 1876. Its Jlesh is considered in many respects superior to that of the rabbit, being much lore savoury, and of a higher flavour ; it is, however, a dry kind of anuiial food, and equires much gravy, stuffing, &c., and this natural dryness is too often unnecessarily ;jcreased by the common practice of soaking it in water for some time before it is dressed, rhich deprives it of its juices. It is not fit for table immediately after being killed ; but equires to hang up for some days to make the flesh tender. An old hare is excessively ough, and scarcely fit for stewing. It is less digestible than the flesh of the rabbit, and iiiould not be eaten by dyspeptics. Ude directs, in order to ascertain whether a hare is loung, " to feel the first joint of the fore claw : if you find a small nut, the animal is still loung; should this nut have disappeared, turn the claw sideways, and if the joint cracks, I^nat is a sign of its being still tender." Dolby says, "if the ears feel tender and pliable, end the claws smooth and sharp, the hare is young." 1877. Hares are reckoned gmne, and the game laws, which fonnerly were the source of iiauch incentive to vice, were the remnant of the ancient forest laws, under which the killing nne of the king's deer was a capital crime. These laws declared wliat birds and beasts shnidd be railed game, and prohibited every one not duly ualified by birth or estate from killing any of them. By a statute passed in 1831, the old system was consider- ' biy modified. The whole of the tbrmer provisiims respecting qualification by estate or birth were removed; nd any person obtainins a certificate is now enabled to kill game either upon his own land or on the land r any other person with his permission. The sale of game is, under certain restrictions, legalised ; and eing deemed an article of legal traffic, summary means are provided for protecting it from trespasses, 'oaching in the night time still remains punishable by imprisonment for the first two offences, and by nprisonment or transportation for the third. T/ie word game includes hares, pheasants, partridges, grouse, heath or moor game, black game, and bus- arils ; and the periods during which the different species of game may not be killed are those of the breeding md rearing seasons of the different species : peualties are imposed upon persons haying poison for game, or eestroying the eggs of any bird of game, or of any swan, wild duck, teal or widgeon, or knowingly having ooisession thereof. Sect. IX. QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD IN OTHER PARTS OF THE WORLD, THOUGH NOT IN GREAT BRITAIN. 1878. Thehtiffalo (Bos bubalus. Linn). This quadruped appears to be so closely allied to our common ox that ithout an attentive examin.ation, it might be easily mistaken for a variety of thatanimal. In point of size and strength it is rather superior to the ox ; it differs in the shape and m.agnitude of the head, the latter being larger : the horns are also much larger, and different in their form. The buffalo has no dewlap ; his tail is mnall, and his ears long and pointed : in short, he forms a distinct species, and his aspect is ferocious. The iiufralo IS a native of the hotter parts of India and Africa, and immense troops of them live wild in the forests : hhe hunting pf them is dangerous, and requires great dexterity. There is a domestic buffalo much cultivated an Egvpt and Persia, and employed for the purposes of labour, for which, from his great strength, he is well Bjiuahlied: these are also very common in Italy, particularly in the Pontine Marshes, and those of Sienna. Wuffalo beef is tough, d.irk coloured, and occasionally of a musky flavour. In some countries, however, it is a better quality, but is never equal to ox beef. The chine is esteemed good, but in Italy it is only eaten ipy the common people : the veal of the young is indifferent. This animal gives excellent milk, the biUter of il»hlch when clarified, will keep a long time, and is largely consumed in India. Cheese is also obtained from Bhe milk. 1879. The bison {Bos Urus, Linn) is a large wild species, formerly common in Europe: but ,as it had ever been domesticated, and was a very fierce animal, it has been nearly extirpated, and is supposed now to be nonflned to some forests in Lithuania. It w,is the urus of the ancients, and is called by the Germans the auroch. Kit Is distinguished not merely by its bulk, sometimes standing six feet high, but likewi.se by a large quantity M long shaggy hair about its neck, head, and shoulders : in the latter there is a remarkable hump. There is UiUo .an American bison, soraewh.at different; having one pair of ribs more than the Kuropean, but veryanalo. JHOUS 111 its general character. The flesh very nearly resembles ox beef, and it is said to be of a finer flavour nndof easier digestion. I hough originally extremely numerous in North America, yet such has been the WMtruction of them by the settlers, chiefly lor their skins .and their tongues, which hi>t is considered as dcli- *ate, that they are now found only in the unsettled regions of the north and west, where vast numbers still nixlst, .and arc the support of many Indian tribes. The weiglit of the hump alone is often filty pounds and iihe Indwiis bake it as a gre.at delicacy. aiiu 1880. The musk ox is an inhabitant of North America, and is .-in uncnutli and flci ce-lonking .animal rantnin Hiloss .nate.s that the flesh is excellent, and free from any particular musky Havour, thougli the skin h,« = *• trong smell. i ' a oiviu imi, a