362 Book VII. ON FOOD. others; and it is obvious that those parts are the fittest for making jellies that are com- posed wholly, or almost so, of this principle. The flesh of young animals abounds more in gelatine than that of old: as animals advance in age, the gelatine disappears and is replaced by albumen. Veal is therefore preferable to beef for broth, as are also parts where there are ligaments, tendons, &c. In calves' feet the gelatinous matter is abun- dant : hence calf's-foot jelly. Gelatine is also extracted in large quantity from bones, which consist of this principle, and an insoluble part which is phosphate of lime. (See " Bone.") 1759. Hartshorn jell;/ is made from the white part of the stag's horn rasped down and boiled to a jelly The stag sheds liis horns ainiually about the end of February: when they begin to grow again, they are sdfi and full of blood-vessels, and are covered with a downy cuticle ; but as tlicy increase in size, the blood ceases to flow through the vessels, and the horns become hard and compact. The horns consist of twenty- seven parts of cartilaginous gelatine, the rest being phosphate of lime ; so that they resemble bone, and not horns, in general, which consist chiefly of albumen. Hartshorn jelly does not appear to differ from jelly made from other parts of animals. Ivory, which is the tu.sk of the elephant, is scraped down and used for the same purpose. Several parts of animals yield much gelatine, as calves' feet and heads, cow heels, sheep's trotters, iS.'C., which are employed in soups and other jireparations. 17(iO. Porttihic sotips consist ol iliied gelatine, and are, in fact, a species of glue made from meat. The gelatine has been dissolved out of meat by boiling, and when dried till it has become hard, it is capable of being preserved, and dissolved again when wanted. The difference, therefore, between portable soup and glue consists merely in the superior quality and cleanness of the animal substances from which the former is prepared. From the insipidity of this principle by itself, portable soups have generally some adilition to give flavour. It must be observed, that the jelly we have been considering above is entirely a different substance from the jrlli/ procured from vegetables, as currant jelly. In the latter there is no gelatine whatever, and vegetable jellies have not the same nutritive properties as animal jelly (See " Vegetable Jellies.") 1761. Isinglass consists entirely of gelatine, and is the purest variety of this prin- ciple : it is a substance prepared from the sounds or swimming bladders of certain fish, chiefly the sturgeon, which afford the finest kinds. The sounds are cleaned, and the outer coats removed. Like other solid gelatine, it dissolves in boiling water, and becomes a very transparent jelly, that is much used by the confectioners for blanc-mange, and other dishes of that kind. The best isinglass is brought from Russia; some of an inferior kind is brought from North and South America, and the East Indies. The several varieties may be had from the wholesale dealers in isinglass in London. 1762. In choosing isinglass for domestic use, select that which is whitest, has no unplea- sant odour, and which dissolves most readily in water. The inferior kinds are used for fining beer, and similar purposes. 1763. Jellies iverc formerly sujjposed to be particxdarly nutritive: at present physicians appear to be of the opinion that they are less so, and even less digestible, than the flesh or muscular parts of animals : still, when acidulated with lemon-juice, and flavoured with wine, they are very proper for some convalescents. In broths and soups gelatine is combined with fat or oil, and it then acquires dififerent properties; but there are various opinions respecting the nutritive and digestible properties of this kind of food. Gelatine is much disposed to pass into the acid state, and hence it has been supposed to be less completely animalised than the softer parts; for it is one of the characters which distinguish animal from vegetable substances, that the former evolves alkali, and the latter an acid, during their spontaneous decomposition. 1764. Gelatine is found to contain from 13 to 7 per cent, of albumen. It yields by chemical analysis, in 100 parts, carbon, 47'S81; hydrogen, 7"914; oxygen, 27-207 ; nitrogen, 16.998. 1765. >4 solidnelutine for dictclical use, in thin plates and strings, hasfately appeared in the shops, to be used instead of isinglass, on account of its inferior price. The best is transparent, and is brought from France; it is prepared from the gelatine of bones, by digestion in diluted hydrochloric acid, and long boiling in water. Another kind, called Nelson's patent opaque gelatine, is prepared from cuttings of skins, and is therefore a kind of glue. None of these are equal to isinglass in nutritive power and digestibility, properties which, it has been shown, are diminished by long decoction; and the sources from which they are procured are not calculated to recommend them. 1766. Albumen. — This principle enters into the composition of many of the solid parts, and more largely than any of the other principles into the fluid parts, of animals. AMiite of eggs is nearly pure albumen with four-fifths of water, and may serve to illustrate its properties. This can be beat up with cold water, making glaire of eggs, which will dry, if laid on thin, into a hard transparent substance ; but if white of eggs be put into water nearly boiling, it will, as every one knows, coagulate or set, as it is called, into a pearl-white substance. In the living animal there is a solid albimien, as well as liquid. Liquid albumen exists in great quantity in the serum of blood, where it is held in solution by water, and it may be obtained in an uncoagulated state like glaire of eggs, by evaporating the clear serum by a heat of 120°. A solid albumen is found in several of the membranes, caj'ti- lages, skin, glands, and vessels. 1767. Though albumen naturally cvists as an adhesive fluid, mixihle with, and soluble ui, water, either cold or warm, yet, ivhen subjected to a temperature of about 142°, it experiences a remarkable change in its properties; it is tlien converted into a solid no longer capable of being dissolved in water; and if, after coagulation, it be gradually exposed to a higher