Book IX.' ON MAKING BREAD, potatoes contain so much water; added to which bread into which potatoes enter as an ingredient is decidedly somewhat less nutritive, though very white, and keeps worse, becoming dry and hard in less time. 4317. To make, good family bread. — The general mode of making bread fermented with yeast must be nearly the same in all cases ; and we have already described the method as practised by the public baker ; but we consider it proper to describe likewise the process as it is employed in private families, where the scale is of course less. We will suppose that a bushel of wheat flour is to be baked into bread ; if the quantity be less, then all the ingredients must be diminished in proportion, observing that a bushel of flour weighs fifty-six pounds. If the family be large, it may be supposed to consume that quantity weekly; but In a small family of three or four persons, twenty pounds of flour may, perhaps, be found sufiicient for the weekly batch. Put the flour in one heap into a wooden trough that is made for the purpose, or into a smooth tub or pan sufficiently large to hold near twice the quantity, but not too deep. Then mix a pint of good stiff brewer's yeast with a pint of lukewarm water and a quarter of a pound of salt, and strain it through a sieve : with a spoon work as much flour into it as will make the whole of the consistence of a thin batter, and stir this together well. Make a large hole in the middle of the heap of flour, and pour this mixture into it; sprinkle some dry flour over this, so as just to cover it. The sponge being thus set, cover the whole over with a cloth, and place it in a warm situation, nearer to or farther from the fire according to the state of the weather, whether it is hot or cold. The sponge will now ferment and swell up, or rise, as it is called ; and as it rises, cracks will be seen across the flour that was scattered over it. The whole of the flour is now to be mixed up with the mass in which the fermentation has already taken place ; mixing in as much water as is necessary, and taking care to add it a little at a time. The whole must now be very well kneaded together into dough. Much of the gooduess of the bread will depend iipon the thorough kneading, in order that all the lumps of flour may be completely moistened and broken, and the fermented batter intimately mingled with the dough, so that it may be as uniform as possible. At first the mass is very adhesive, and clings to the fingers, but it becomes less so the longer the kneading is continued ; and when the fist, on being withdrawn, leaves its perfect impression in the dough, none of it adhering to the fingers, the kneading may be discontinued. The dough is now to be made up into a lump in the middle of the trough, a little flour is dusted over it, and it is placed in a warm situation to ferment, and rise still more. In about half an hour or more, according to circumstances, it will have risen sufficiently ; and before it has time to fall back again it is cut into pieces of the required sizes for loaves, and made up into shape, ready to be put into the oven, and dusted over with flour. No more should be done than is necessary to bring the loaf into shape, since much handling in this stage of the dough is apt to make the bread heavy. In the meantime, while this was going on, the oven should be heated either with wood or by a coal fire, according to its construction, for which see " Oven," Sect. IX. It is difficult to describe the degree of heat that is proper for the oven ; but persons accus- tomed to bake in a brick oven guess this pretty well by the bricks being red-hot, and the degree of heat which they feel on their faces. The hot embers are now to be drawn out of the oven ; if that is of brick this is done by a long pole with an iron hook ; and the bottom is farther cleaned with a mop made of shreds of cloth or sacking. No time should now be lost in putting in the loaves, by means of a proper wooden shovel, called a peel, and the oven door should be shut very close ; the bread should be looked at when it is supposed to be nearly done, which is generally in about two hours, more or less, according to the size of the loaves. When the loaves are taken from the oven they should be placed with their bottoms upwards, and f overed with a thick cloth or flannel, that they may cool gradually. If the fermentation of bread be too rapid, as it sometimes will be in warm weather, or if too much or too strong yeast has been used, there is a danger of the dough souring by passing into the acetous fi'rnicntation. If tliat should happen, it will become heavy. To check tliis, it is customary to uncover tlie dough, and cx]iose it to the air, in oraer to diminish tlie temperature of tlie fermenting mass, or to i>ut it, if possible, in a cooler place. Chaptal proposes to linead a little carljonate of potash with the dough, which will neutralise the excess of acetic acid ; magnesia has also been tried for the same purpose ; luit though these practices m.iy be very proper were bakers scientiiic, tliey will frciiuently fail with our present makers of bread. 4318, Hovsehold or brown bread.—In Sect. II. we described the different kinds of floor prepared from wheat, produced by the mode of dressing it after it was ground ; and we showed that the finest and whitest part lay in the centre or heart of the grains. Origin- ally the distinction of the kernel and the pollard was neglected by the miller; and after taking off the bran the whole was ground together. Future refinements found means to separate the pollard from the kernel, in order to produce a very white flour. There are many persons, however, who consider the whole flour, or yrixt flour, as it is called, that is, the pollard and the kernel ground together, as formerly, to be more wholesome than the