862 HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. Book XIL 4860. Crab and crayfish must be chosen by observations similar to those given above in the choice of lobsters. Crabs have an agreeable smell when fresh 4861. Prawns and shrimps, when fresh, are firm and crisp. 4862. Oysters. — If fresh, the shell is firmly closed; when the shells of oysters are opened, they are dead, and unfit for food. The small-shelled oysters, the Pyfleet, Col- chester, and Milford, are the finest in flavour. Larger kinds, called rock oysters, are generally considered only fit for stewing and sauces, though some persons prefer them. SuBSECT. 3. —Purchase of Grocery. 4863. In the purchase of grocery at a retailed sJiop, it does not appear that any advantage in price results to the housekeeper from laying in large stores at once, though the prac- tice may in some situations be convenient. The retail grocer, being compelled to market for his goods with ready money, and finding also great competition in his trade, is induced to put at once on his goods the lowest profit he can afford to ready money customers. To those requiring yearly or half yearly credit, he adds such a per-centage as may remu- nerate him in the end for the slow return of his capital, and for the risk incurred of making bad debts ; this additional charge is only just, and is done in every other retail business. Thence the economy in most cases of ready money purchasers. 4864. In purchasing grocery from the wholesale dealer, a family may occasionally gain some advantage in price; but to do it uniformly would not be convenient or desirable, either to the buyer or the seller. A quick consumption is desirable of the finer articles of grocery, especially those with aromatic properties, which exposure to the air dissipates. Thence family stores, which are slowly consumed, are daily impairing in quality, ex- cepting only some few articles which are supposed to improve by that exposure. By purchasing from the retail dealer this inconvenience is avoided. With some other articles of family consumption, besides grocery, the case is different, and of these it is best to keep a quantity in the store-room. 4865. Tea. — For the genuine characters of tea, under the two principal classes of Souchong and Hyson, together with those of cofiee, in its division into the various kinds, and also chocolate and cocoa, we refer the reader to Book VIII. As a security against the adulteration of tea, many persons have purchased, through the means of brokers, whole chests of tea; but there is a risk of the tea losing its flavour by exposure to the air when, so much is purchased, and should the whole chest prove indiiferent, there is no power of exchange. The tea market has, however, undergone great changes of late in consequence of the gradual opening of the tea trade; these changes are stUl going on, and until the markets are more settled, little can be said on the subject of price. As a rule it may be here laid down, that whatever articles can be purchased in an unground state, such as coffee, rice, ginger, pepper, and spices, are better than those purchased ground, not entirely from the suspicion of buying adulterated articles, but because all these articles lose their flavour more rapidly when ground than when whole. 4866. Sugar. —For the full account of this we refer the reader to Book VIII., where the different kinds are described. Loaf or refined sugar, when good, is of a close texture, of a fine white gloss, and simply sweet to the taste, without other flavour ; when inferior, it is coarse and loose in grain, crumbles easily, is a little yellowish in colour, and its sweet- ness has something of the taste of moist sugar. Moist sugar, when good and unmixed with adulterating articles, is bright, and composed of ci7stallised grains. A dull-looking moist sugar is always one of an inferior and doubtful quality. Casks of moist sugar are sometimes procured, by families whose consumption of sugar is great, of the wholesale grocer, at a reduction of 2d. per pound. The price of sugar, as well as many other articles of grocery, is too fluctuating to be stated usefully. 4867. Of rice, there are several kinds in the market. East Indian rice is generally small in grain, and yellowish in colour; but some of it is excellent The Carolina is large in grain, and perfectly white in appearance. Of rice it is rarely desirable to pur- chase large quantities. The larvaj of a fly sometimes infests old rice, and injures it materially. JEa.it India rice is generally lower in price than that of West India. 4868. Itaisi?i.i, currants, figs, French plums, are dried fruits, which ought to be clean and dry, yet fresh in appearance. When adhering together in lumps, they cannot be regarded as good in quality, and in use would prove wasteful. For a description of the various kinds, see Book VII. Chap. IX. The Muscadine raisins are dried in large bundles, and have a dry surface with a slight bloom upon them. They are chiefly used for dessert, and are sold at the grocers' under the term "table raisins." The jar or sun raisins are separated from the stalks when dried; and, as well as the Malaga, are chiefly in domestic use for puddings, cakes, &c. Currants should be new when purchased for stores. They are to be bought new gene- rally in September or October. When currants are ofi'ered at a very low price, it may