l AP. II. OF ANIMAL FOOD. 361 several times alluded to their being compounded of our four elements, carbon, oxygen, uitrogen, and h}'drogen. 1752. We may further observe, that the proximate principles of animal bodies are not the -same as those of vegetables; the latter contain no fibrin, nor gelatine, but consist of other I proximate principles, as gluten, starch, &c. But we propose to treat of animal substances -first, and then vegetable substances will follow. Notwithstanding the near approach viwhich vegetable substances make to those of animals in their composition of the simple lalements, they differ most essentially in their general properties ; and no art can convert lithe one into the other, nor is it probable that it ever will, because the elements of each hhave been combined by means of the living prmciple in a manner of which we have no iadea, and which is beyond human means to imitate. We will now proceed to describe the properties of the proximate principles of animal Kaodies; and this description must precede that of the various parts of animals, namely, tiJesh, bone, skin, &c., which come into the hands of the cook; because we should not oDtherwise be understood in describing the nature of these several parts. 1753. Fibrin. — Wlien apiece of meat is boiled for a long time in ivater, the greater part iDf the soluble part is extracted, and what remains is a stringy matter, which is the fleshy tiibre, and is termed^inn by the chemist when obtained quite pure, This forms the basis oof the meat, and is the most abundant animal principle. All the red fleshy part of animals iss composed of bundles of these fibres, which are called muscles. But by the above-men- li ioned process, namely, boiling in water, we do not obtain fibrin in a state of perfect purity ; I'-'or there is stiU adhering to it a quantity of fat and gelatine. It may be tolerably freed Irrom these by repeated boiling till aU the soluble part is extracted. To procure this pprinciple in a state of absolute purity, the flesh must be steeped for fourteen days in cold iwater, changing the water each day, and squeezing the pieces : if the weather be cold, no routrefaction will take place. After this it must be boiled several times in water, when at iast it will become quite white, and very little liable to putrefy. When moist, the fibres iare somewhat elastic; but when dry, they are brittle, hard, and semi-transparent, like taom. Fibrin is insoluble in spirits, ether, and water, except it be boiled for a long time im the latter, particularly under pressure, and then it is dissolved. 1754. The red colour of flesh is oiving to the blood dispersed through it in extremely nninute veins. When the colour of flesh changes in cooking, it is from the coagulation Jind change of colour in the blood. When pure fibrin is analysed, it is found to contain ion 100 parts, carbon, 53'36 ; hydrogen, 7-02; oxygen, 19-68; nitrogen, 19-93. 1755. Fibrin, when accompanied by gelatine and other principles, as it alivays is in ordi- nary boiled meat, is highly nutritive and strengthening ; it is likewise of easy assimilation ; ■ nit, when deprived of all its gelatine by long boiling, it is rigid, and difiicult of solution an the stomach. 1756. Gelatine.— Gelatine is that part of the meat which, when dissolved and extracted iyy water, forms a jelly ichen cold. Gelatine is found more or less in the flesh of all lanimals, in the form of membranes surrounding the fibres of the muscles, and in bones : ihe true skin or cutis is composed almost entirely of this principle, the cuticle or scarf ikkin consisting of albumen. Fine glue may be taken as an example of gelatine. It is (orocured by dissolving skins by boiling. Pure gelatine or glue, when dry, is colourless, «emi-transparent, and nearly tasteless. It is softened by long-continued immersion in • '.old water : in hot water it readily dissolves, and forms a solution of a slightly milky appearance, which, if sufficiently concenti'ated, concretes in cooling into the colourless iinass called jelly, and which is easily soluble in water; when this is dried in a gentle ideat, it regains its original appearance, and is soluble as before. When once dry, gela- hine undergoes no change; but, exposed to the air before it is dried, it soon becomes BDOuldy, and then putrescent. 1757. Gelatine does not, properly spcahing, combine with oils; but it causes oil to mix luith riater, and then forms a kind of emulsion. From this we see the reason why a very r^eak soup will sulfer all the fat to come on the top, but a stronger soup will allow the lat to be united with it. From what has been said, it will readily be seen that the ftrength of meat soups depends upon the gelatine which they contain : they will be ttrong or weak in proportion as they contain more or less of this principle. Gelatine laas a very strong tendency to gelatinise, or become a stiff jelly: if water contain only a Hundredth part of gelatine, it will assume the form of a jelly on cooling ; therefore, water rr soup having a very small quantity of gelatine may appear a jelly when cold, a lircumstance which is very apt to mislead in judging of the quantity of animal matter ontained in soup. The water in this case is chemically united with the gelatine, arming a compound that may be termed hydrate of gelatine. If this jelly, after being olid, be warmed, the water contained in it dissolves the gelatine, and the whole again ' ecomes fluid. 1758. Gelatine being dispersed, more or less through all parts of animals, jelly may be ottracted from them by boiling ; but some parts afford a greater quantity of it thaa