RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. ■900 a soup-plate and score it with a knife in various places, to allow the gravy to flow out. In the mean time put into the same saucepan, and by the same process; draw out the juices of one carrot, one onion, and some celery, all cut small. When these are heated, or as the cook terms it sweated, add to them the meat and its gravy, and a pint of boiling water ; boil all together and scum the surface continually, and -when the scum ceases to rise, cover the pot and let it simmer gently for an hour or more. Strain it off, and if not immediately wanted, let it cool, in order to remove more entirely the fat than can other- wise be done, as well as to pour it after it has settled clear off from the sediment. 5132. Fi-rt/ grart/— Veal gravy may be obtained by the same plan as the last, but it requires a greater pro- portion of meat to water than beef gravy, and instead of butter, the saucepan should be lined with slices of I'at bacon. The cover of the stew-pan should be put on while both meat and vegetables are sweating, as one object is to keep the gravy from becoming brown. Of vegetables use only parsley, green onions, and mush- room parings. 5133. Browning. — This is used to give a fine brown to gravies ; it is prepared by putting a quarter of a pound of good moist sugar into a frying-pan, with three table-spoonfuls of water; this is kept over the fire and stirred all the time, until it becomes of a deep brown colour; another pint of water is then added; it is to be skimmed well while boiling, and after it is done it must be bottled and well corked. 5134. Gravy for roast beef. — Melt a little salt in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, about an hour before a joint of roast beef is to bo served, place an earthenware dish under it, and drop some of the salt and water on the brown parts of the roast, catching it in tlie dish beneath. When enough is thus obtained, set to cool, in order to remove the fat from it; this being done, warm it in a saucepan, and pour it over the beef when it is served. 5135. Gravy for roasl mutton Make a gravy of mutton, without vegetables, and remember to send some of this in a tureen whenever there is a saddle or haunch of mutton to be served. Venison, also, should have mutton gravy, unless there are sufficient venison trimmings to make it. Put no seasoning except a little salt to either mutton or venison gravy. Browning may be added to it. 5136. Gravy for steaks and chops Pour aw.iy the fat in which steaks or chops have been fried ; put in a small lump of butter, and, while it is melting, dredge it well and continually with flour, until it becomes a thick mass; then add a little boiling water and any flavouring ingredient, such as mushroom or walnut catsup, whichever the meat requires, with which it is to be served. 5137. Savoury jelly for meat pies. — This is a composition of animal and vegetable substances, reduced by slow boiling to a jelly. Stick two large onions with a few cloves, peel three eschalots, slice two carrots, a bundle of parsley and sweet herbs; put these into the stew-pan with four pounds of chuck beef, two calfs feet, remnants of poultry and game, with a knuckle of veal and some ham. Let these ingredients heat together for an hour over a slow fire ; moisten with some beef or veal stock, and let it stew gently for four hours J remove all tlie fat and strain it; then clarify it with the whites of eggs ; and when cold it will be a jelly. 5138. Gravy for hashed meat Make a gravy of the bones of the meat to be hashed ; break the bones, and, if for mutton, put in an oniou sliced, some celery cut small, and a carrot and turnip; pour boiling water over them, and simmer gently for two or three hours ; strain all through a sieve. If to be served thickened, stew some sliced potatoes with the vegetables, and pulp all together through the sieve or tamis. Season with pepper and salt; flavour with mushroom catsup, for veal or mutton ; with walnut catsup for beef. 6139. Gravy for poultry. — Add the liver, necks, and feet of poultry either to the brown beef stock (see " Beef Gravy "), or to the white veal stock (see "White Veal Stock "), according as the poultry is to be dressed, whether fricasseed or ragouted. 5140. Gravy for game Add to the beef gravy (see " Beef Stock ") the trimmings of game rabbits, one table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, and the juice of half a lemon. 5141. Turtle gravy, for hashed calf s head Thicken with butter and flour a pint of beef gravy; add a wine-glass of Madeira, the juice and peel of half a lemon, a few leaves of basil, an eschalot sliced, a few grains of cayenne or curry powder, two tea-spoonfuls of anchovy essence. Simmer these together for five minutes, and strain through a tamis. Add or omit, as may be convenient, a dozen of turtle forcemeat balls. Sect. VI. SAUCES. 5142. White roux, or thickening for sauces. — Melt some butter in a stew-pan over a slow fire, and dredge in sufficient flour to form a thin paste ; stir this for ten minutes to incorporate. By submitting the same materials to a brisker fire in the beginning, and then continuing the process over a more gentle heat, it will assume a brown colour, and is then termed brown roux. These are the usual thickenings for all gravies and sauces, and when thus prepared will keep good for a considerable time. 5143. Liaisons or Icasons. — These are thickenings for white sauces, formed of egg and cream; the yolk of egg beaten well is mixed with cream, and both are gradually mixed with the hot broth or stock which is to be thickened. Care must be taken not to boil this mixture, which would cause the eggs to curdle. When cream is not at hand, the yolk of an egg thus combined with the gravy serves as a substitute for thickening. 5144. Bread sauce for roasted poultry and game.— Put a tea-cupful of bread crumbs into a saucepan, and pour over them half a pint of milk ; add an onion and a dozen black peppercorns. Let it boil, stirring it well together; then simmer it till it becomes stiff. Take out the onion and pepper, and, with butter and cream, reduce the bread to a proper consistence. Serve in a tureen. 5145. Gooseberry sauce. —T^iQ accompaniment to a boiled leg of house Iamb, or to mackarel. After cutting off the tops and tails with scissors, half a pint of gooseberries must be scalded, drained on a sieve, and then put into a pint of melted butter. (See " Melted Butter.") For mackarel, some add finely-chopped fennel to the gooseberries; other cooks flavour the sauce with ginger and lemon-peel; and occasionally the goose- berries are merely scalded and sent up whole, without any mixture of butter or other things.