•[160] ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. B represents the same nppcr part as completed by some additions; n is a perforated cylindrical tube to conceal the aperture by which the air is admitted to the flame ; o is the part necessary for inserting the bottom of the glass represented by the dotted line ; and p is a screw by which the height of the wick is adjusted ; g is a stage on which rests a ground-glass moon to soften and distribute the intense light of the flame. D represents the lamp complete on a stand, but without the ground-glass moon, or conical paper shade which is sometimes also used as is represented in Parker's hot oil lamp, which throws down a strong light round the foot of the lamp. 710 fZ. One of the great advantages of the Vesta lamp is, that there is no deposition of carbonaceous matter upon the wick, provided the camphine is used quite fresh ; and from the simplicity of its construction, the management of it is easy, the wick requiring merely to be cut even every time it is used ; nor is this even always necessary, as there can be no overflowing of the liquid, a defect to which the Argand lamp is liable, and which demands the addition of a cup to catch the oil that may drop ; here no cup is re- quired, nor is the turpentine liable to damage the carpets and other furniture in the same manner as oil. But it is proper to observe that the camphine must be kept quite close from the air in a tin can, and no more poured into the reservoir than is required for one burning, or at most two, because the rectified turpentine attracts oxygen from air rapidly, and what has been exposed for a day or two in the reservoir is not fit for combustion, as it will give smoke. The proper rectification of the turpentine appears to be essential to the success of this lamp. Another precaution must be mentioned, which is, that the liquid being highly inflammable, the greatest care must be taken that it does not take fire by any accident in filling the reservoir, or pouring it out in any way ; since, in case of such accident, the flame is violent and difficult to extinguish ; but it is to be observed that the turpentine is not very easily inflamed, except when heated, which it is not liable to be in the glass reservoir on the construction above-mentioned; but this effect would happen were it used in a common Argand lamp, or any other lamp having a metal tube going into the liquid. The total absence of such a tube is one of the peculiarities of the Vesta lamp. 710 e. Tlie printed report hy Dr. Ure is subjoined, not only as stating some properties of this lamp, but because it aflbrds information respecting combustible liquids : — " The Vesta lamp, burning with its utmost brilliancy, without sraoke, emits a light equ.il very nearly to twelve wax or sperm candles of three or four to the pound; and in so doing it consumes exactly one imperial pint of spirits of turpentine (value sixpence ret.iil) in ten hours ; hence the cost per hour for a light equal to ten such randies is one halfpenny, whereas that from wax candles would be nearly sixpence ; from sperma- ceti ditto, fivepence; from stearine ditto, fourpence ; from Palmer's spreading wick, ditto, nearly threepence ; from tallow moulds, '2^d.; from sperm oil in Carcel's mechanrcil French lamp, IJrf. One peculiar .advantage of the Vesta lamp is the snowy whiteness of its light, which is such as to display the more delicate colours of natural and artiticial objects, flowers, paintings, &c., in their true tints, instead of the degraded hues visible by the light of candles, and ordinary oil lamps. " The size of the flame from which so much light is emitted in the Vesta lamp is greatly smaller than that of oil or gas Argand flames of equal intensity ; a circumstance to he accounted for from the diflerence in chemical composition between spirits of turpentine and fat oils. The spirits consist entirely of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of 88i of theformer element and lU of the latter, in K'O parts,.and they consume 328 of oxygon; whereas sperm and other unctuous oils consist of 73 carbon, 11J of hydrogen, and lOj o( oxygen, in 100 parts ; and these consume only 287 2 of oxygen in being burnt, because the oxygen already present neutr.alises 2-6 p,arts of the carbon, and 0'4 of the hydrogen, thus leaving only 85J parts of the com- bustible elements of the atmosphere to burn, for this reason : 87^ parts by weight of spirits of turpentine will consume as much oxygen as 100 parts of sperm oil, and will afford, moreover, a more vivid light, because they contain no oxide, as fat oils do, which serve to damp the combustion. In the spirits of turpentine the .atliiiity of it.s elements for oxygen is entire, whereas, in fat oil, the affinity is parti.ally neutralised by the oxides it contains somewhat .as the flame of spirits of wine is weakened by their dilution with water." Mr. Young has .also prep.ared lamps upon similar principles, but on a smaller scale, in sever.al forms, for giving light in ch.imbers of various sizes. To this we m.iy .add that the principle of Mr. Young's lamp, by ivhich air is admitted to the interior of the flame by a slit in the wick, is applicable also to the Solar lamp burning oil, with a ring flame, to the interior of which hitherto the air has been admitted only from below, by a tube passing down through the reservoir. Sect. XIIL LAMPS FOR nEADING. 711. .4 lamp f<sr reading, toritinp, or drawing, should have the light thrown immediately upon the most convenient part of the table. A71 Argand^.i lamp, icith a conical shade, foms an excellent lamp for these purposes ; but the)' consume more oil than is usually re- quired, and consequently give too much heat. If the hollow wick is made very small, it is difficult to get the lamp to burn well. A flat wick well trimmed, with a glass chimney, and the best oil, such as watch makers use, make a good economical lamp for these purposes. 712. Fig. IJO. is another lamp on a superior construction for the same purpose, o is a tin cylinder containing the oil, which has a valve at the bottom, made to open by a wire in the same manner as the fountain lam]). In this lamp, the wick is flat, or it may be Fig. 140.