375 nnAP. III. QUADRUPEDS USED AS FOOD, Sect. IV. SWINE OR HOG (_Sus scrofa, Linn.). 11845. The swine, pig, or hog, is one of the most useful of all the domestic quadrupeds, and ; flesh forms the chief animal food among the labouring classes. The wild hog, or .jar, is about the same size as the domesticated breeds, but is distinguished by its fero- l^y, and the superior length of his tusks, which form very dangerous weapons. Hunting wild boar is stUl an amusement on the Continent, as it was with our ancestors. 11846. All our domesticated breeds are'derived from the original stock of the wild boar, hiich still exists in the forests of Germany and other parts of Europe, and was formerly nimon in Britain, though now extinct. Tame hogs are found in most countries, except biiere the cold is very severe. 11847. We have several varieties of the hog, produced by crossing our indigenous breed I th foreign ones, as the Chinese, black African, the Spanish, and the Portuguese, which .we improved our own, by giving them greater delicacy of flesh and aptitude to fatten, hiie greatest improvement in pork has been received from crosses with the southern vck, or with the wild boar of the Continent. IThe fat of the hog differs from that of every other quadruped, not only in its consis- i.ice and quality, but in its mode of distribution over the animal's body ; the fat of those limals that have no suet, as the dog and the horse, is equally mixed with the flesh ; but E! fat of the hog covers the animal nearly all over, and forms a thick and continuous layer itween the flesh and the skin. 11848. The well-known culinary division of swine's flesh is into roasting pig, pork fresh ii pickled, bacon, and ham; and hogs are generally fed and killed with a view of being liefly employed in one or other of these ways. The large breeds answer best for bacon -■gs, producing the finest flitches, and the smaller for fresh or pickled pork. 11849. Swine have different names according to the age at which they are sold to the idcher. They are called pigs when a few weeks old, and these are commonly roasted ip.ole. Porkers are of the age of five or six months, and are used as fresh or as pickled rtk, and not made into bacon. Full-grown hogs, named bacon hogs, are from eighteen lonths to two years old, and are converted into ham and bacon. For the manner of pre- ri'ing these, see " Preservation of Food." 11850. The flesh of the hog has been variously esteemed among different nations. It ss highly valued in ancient Rome, but is held in abhorrence by the Jew and the Turk. Ihot climates its flesh is not good; and the animal being there subject to scrofula II leprous disorders, and from its habits generally considered as an emblem of filth, ilh, and gluttony, it has been reckoned unclean ; and this will account for its proscription t the legislators of the East. But no other animal affords a larger series of savoury ;inds to the table of the European Christian. Every part comes into use. Of the back- lae are made the chine and the grisldn ; the thinner portions of the ribs form the spare- ;; the sides make the flitch ; the hind legs the ham and the hock ; the neck and collar kke brawn ; of the shoidders are made gammons and bladebones ; the sides of the head ■ 1 called cheeks ; the tongue is pickled, and the ears are made into souse : of the heart, I liver and lights, with morsels from the throat, are made the harslet or fry ; of the lure lean parts are made sausages ; the larger intestines, stuS'ed with grits, mixed with II blood, make black-puddings ; the smaller intestines make chitterlings ; and the feet fehe sucking-pig furnish the petitoes. Ijrrhe flesh of the wild boar is of a higher flavour than that of the domestic hog, and I i formerly very much esteemed when existing in this island. The boar's head was l-sidered as a great delicacy; and the finest Westphalia hams are still made from the l id boar. H-851. Pork and bacon, like other kinds of meat, vary according to sex, age, and feeding, lee flesh of the sow is strong, and makes bad bacon : it is the flesh of the male that is > ommon use for the best pork. Pork in general is a very savoury food, and is much -lied in England, though not among our northern neighbours. It is, however, with 1 !(■ persons not very easy of digestion, although others digest it readily ; and it is upon whole not the most wholesome food. Although for bacon a great deal of fat may and even be preferred by some, yet for roast pork the fat should never exceed a cer- ' proportion, and there should always be a considerable quantity of lean. In very fat ^k, the little lean there may be is of a greasy quality and insipid flavour. Bacon is ritive, and easily digested by robust labouring people; but it excites much thirst if m in quantity, and is probably too much used in England. The hog dilfera from all er land animals, Willi respect to the adipose substance, or fat: some bacon consists 'lost entirely of fat, and would demand the addition of much vegetable aliment to 1 no wholesome food. ' 852. No animal is more affected, as to the wliolesonicness of its flesh, hi/ the mode of 15 b 4 ■ ■