1143 Chai'. II. MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. 4 D 4 , quantity from twelve to sixteen pounds. The groom should observe whether the horse I masticates his corn sufficiently; if not, it should be mixed with chaff, or be bruised. 6788. Food for the manger is sometimes mixed. Horses often waste much of their hay I and straw by pulling it down out of the rack, and trampling them under their feet. This i is prevented by cutting them into chaff, which is often mixed with corn or beans. These I the horse can thus masticate more easily; and he is also obliged to chew them instead of : swallowing them whole. 6789. Cutting the haij and straw into chaff has several advantages ; it is said to be more . easily eaten than uncut hay, and saves time in eating. The trouble of cutting, and the . expense of the machine for it, are objections where there are but few horses. In Flanders it is the universal practice to convert the entire provender into manger meat, and their horses are generally in high condition. Some recommend, however, that ; a little uncut hay should be put into the rack to give the horses employment, since when they have none they are apt to become mischievous. 6790. A great number of horses kept in towns receive nothing but oats and hay all the year round. Some add a little grass in summer and in winter roots, with perhaps a weekly feed of bran ; but others whose work is more laborious, and often performed in stormy weather, are the better for a more complicated diet containing beans, varied by barley, wheat or rye, which may be boiled and given once a day, or as a portion of every feed. But after a horse has been accustomed to a particular kind of food, it is not proper to change it suddenly, as this sometimes causes indigestion and colic ; and upon the whole, a spare diet is generally safest. 6791. Among other substances used in mixed food oil-cake has been used in small quantity with advantage. Sugar mixed with hay has been found to possess much nutriment. Milk and eggs have been given, but only under particular circumstances. Horse-chesnuts, it is said, would prove a useful article : In Turkey they are ground and mixed with other food. Figs and chesnuts are used in Spain and Italy; apples occasionally in France; dates in Persia: in short any vegetables used by man, and possessing farinaceous or saccharine matter, will serve upon occasion as food for the horse. 6792. Some kinds of food require a kind of preparation or are improved hy it. Grain and pulse are often bruised by metal rollers. When the corn is to be made into gruel it must be ground, but without separating the husks from the meal. When barley is used for horses whose teeth are bad, steeping is necessary ; but malting is prohibited by the Excise. Boiling is sometimes used for grain, roots, and pulse ; but the advantages do not appear to be generally very obvious, as horses do not like liquid food; the food should be hard enough to give their teeth some employment; and food in its raw state appears to give them most vigour. Horses particularly dislike boiled food if cold, and they prefer it half boiled. Steaming is preferable to boiling, being more easily performed. The chief value of boUing or steaming consists in rendering the food more easy of digestion, and thus enabling the animal to retain a greater portion of its nutriment than when it is used in a crude state. For old horses, in particular, whose teeth are worn, it is very ad- vantageous to have the food softened. But for young and healthy cattle it is thought that raw food gives most heart. 6793. The quantity of food required by horses daily varies with the kind of animal, his constitution and habits, and the work he is to perform. Large draught horses will con- sume sixteen pounds of hay, four pounds of straw, and eighteen pounds of corn. The cavalry allowance of hay and oats in barracks is twelve pounds of the former and ten pounds of the latter, on which they are kept in high condition. Saddle-horses have about ten or twelve pounds of oats, and more hay than draught horses. More corn is given when they are in full work. Excess of food produces too much fat, but too limited a diet brings on greater evils. The horse loses flesh and strength, and is then liable to several diseases. But any considerable change should be made by degrees; one suddenly made from poor to rich food may bring on plethora, too great a fulness of blood, and surfeit. 6794. Salt is often given to horses; but the propriety of its daily use is questionable. Most quadrupeds appear to be fond of salt, but they probably seek for it only when in- stinct impels them to desire it as a remedy. It is a good practice to fix a piece of rock salt in the stable, which the horses may lick when they wish for it. 6795. The times of feeding must likewise depend upon the kind of work ; but it is best for the horses to have regular hours, since he gets accustomed to them, and regularity is favourable to his digestion. Horses in daily work should seldom be allowed to fast more than three or four hours, and may be allowed a little hay between feediug times. Upon the whole, abstinence, to a moderate extent, is not so prejudicial as much work upon a full stomach. 6796. Water. — Bad water is very injurious to horses as well as to human beings. Clear soft water is the best; if it be only a little hard, it may not be hurtful, particularly when the horse gets accustomed to it: but very hard water is improper, and is apt to disorder the bowels. Though cold water would seem to be the natural drink of the auimal, yet very cold water, as that from a frozen pond, is not proper in his artificial