Chap. III. PRESERVATION OF ANIMAL FOOD FOR A LONG TIME. 783 and suffer It to lie for a fortnight or three weeks; then dry It without smoke, having tied it up in paper to keep away the flies, &c. Some, for the same purpose, wliitewash the hams over while they are drying. See the tiuishiug of bacon and hams by smoking, under " Preservation of Meat by Smoking," Sect. V. Saliiny Fish. 4472. In preserving fish, salt is usually more or less employed. Fish, according to the modes of preserving it, is distinguished into dry, salt, green, and pickled. The method by drying alone has been already mentioned ; it is used only in the smaller kinds. Pickling fish will be described, Chap. VI. 4473. Large quantities of cod are salted and dried in the Newfomidland and Shetland fisheries ; these are little esteemed in England, and they are chiefly sent to the Mediter- ranean, where they fetch a good price, as in the Catholic countries there is a prodigious consumption of fish in Lent. At Newfoundland, the fish, after being gutted and split, are laid in a pile on the shore with a layer of coarse-grained salt, called fishery salt, between each layer of fish : "when they have taken the salt sufficiently, they are placed upon stages of wattle-work supported by poles, and exposed to the sun till they are quite dry, when they are packed up and put on board the ships. This mode of preparing the fish is called curing. 4474. Green cod is the kind most generally used in England. These, instead of being split quite open, like the dry fish, are only opened down to the navel; they are then salted and laid in brine or strong pickle, and put in this manner into casks without any drying. The finest -we have is cured at the Dogger bank, and is generally brought to the London market two or three weeks after it is caught: the fish sometimes weigh from fifteen to twenty pounds, and are known even to measure from four to five feet in length. But by far the greatest quantity is prepared at Newfoundland ; these and the Irish cod- fish are of an inferior quality. 4475. Haddock, cod, or ling, are cured by splitting the fish, and removing the bone ; they are then salted for two or three days with equal parts of salt and sugar, or with salt alone ; afterwards they are stretched on sticks, and laid on the beach to dry in the sun, or on stages, or within the influence of a kiln or stove. 4476. i/('rr/n^5 rt7r prcscrz'Cf/by being salted, pickled, or smoked. The Dutch have always been famous for curing herrings, and it has been supposed that they first began the herring fishery. But there is evidence to show that the Scotch had preceded tliem. 4477. I'he people of Yarmouth have been long celebrated for salting and barrelling herrings, and for their method of preparing red herrings. They have greatly the advantage over the Dutch, in being nearer to the herring slioals. 4478. To salt herrings, as soon as they are taken out of the sea, they are cut open, and everything is taken out except the milt and the roes ; then after washing them in fresh water, they are left in a tub of strong brine for twelve or fifteen hours. They are drained, and afterwards packed up in barrels, disposing them evenly in rows, pressing them well down, and strewing a layer of salt between each row and another at top and bottom. Mackerel are sometimes cured in the same manner ; also pilchards, of which vast numbers are taken oft' Cornwall, and exported to the Mediterranean. The same objection that is made to salted meat applies likewise to herrings and other fish ; but they are much used by the poor, and are rendered less injurious by a plentiful addition of potatoes ; indeed, the best way of using salted herrings is by merely employing them to give a relish to that excellent vegetable. Sect. IV. PRESERVING MEAT AND FISH BY SUGAR. 4479. The preservative power of sugar is well known ; and though it is not a common practice to preserve meat and fish by it alone, yet this has been done occasionally. Meat has been preserved fresh for months by being immersed in molasses. 4480. To preserve fish by sugar, open them and rub the sugar in, in the same manner as salt, leaving it then for a few days. If the fish be intended for long keeping, dry it after this, taking care to expose new surfaces to the air frequently, to prevent mouldiness. Fish preserved in this manner, it is said, will be found, when dressed, much superior to what has been cured by salt or smoke. For a salmon of six pounds weight, a table- spoonful of brown sugar is sufficient ; and if hardness be required, a tea-spoonful of salt- petre may be added. Sect. V. PRESERVATION OF MEAT DY SMOKING, OR SMOKE-DUYING. 4481. It has been long known that the smoke of burning wood has the property of preserving the flesh of animals from putrefaction. We find from Horace that the making of hams in this manner was practised by the Romans : " Fumosa; cum pcde pcrna;," Sat. II. 2.