STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. 1144 state. It is generally carried into the stable in pails, and some let it remain there all night, covered up, until it is wanted in the morning, others add a little warm water to it; but Mr. Stewart observes that the practice of giving constantly "chilled water," as it is called, has a bad effect, rendering the horse so tender that he is injured by the cold water which he is obliged occasionally to take. Hoi'ses generally receive water three times a day : in hot weather they may need more. The quantity required by a horse in twenty- four hours is variable ; one will drink more than another, and much depends upon their kind of work. He requires more with hay than with green food, and more when at work than when in the stable. It is doubtful whether horses should have water always before them. In that case, probably, he will seldom take more than nature demands ; but he should not in general be allowed to drink as much as he pleases at one draught; it is best to give it to him at intervals. It is generally -necessary to hold it up to him in the pail, manger high, as some horses find it difficult to drink from the ground. Some patience must also be employed, and perhaps occasionally a little coaxing to make him drink. Horses should not be allowed to drink immediately before going to work ; during work they should have good allowance. 6797. Clothing. — Though horses for carriages and the saddle are kept in an artifi- cial state, and require clothing in the stable, which is not necessary for those who are mostly out of doors, yet it is a common error to carry the clothing to too great extent, which renders them liable to take cold, particularly when their pace is to be slow in cold weather. The change also from warm clothes to the saddle is often too great. Saddle- horses should stand in the stable with only very light clothing, except in case of sickness. All horses, except racers, should be without clothing in the summer, or at most a thin sheet to keep off dust and flies. Sect. V. DUTIES OF THE COACHMAK, GROOM, AND STABLE-BOY. 6798. There is so much to be known about carriages and horses, that servants who have much skill respecting them are rare and valuable. In racing and hunting studs, the grooms employed have been regularly brought up to their business ; but in small establishments the knowledge of a horse is less regularly acquired, and of course is less perfect. The coachman, besides his skill in driving, requires complete experience of the stable of which he has the management; he has to purchase the provender, see that the horses are properly fed and groomed, watch the condition of his horses, and report if any- thing is amiss. To the groom is Committed the business of feeding and dressing the horses, for which practice and dexterity are essential. The stable-boy has usually much to do, and besides his immediate business in the stable, must readily turn his hand to whatever he is fit for elsewhere, and is always the better for good looking after, and not having much idle time on his hands. 6799. The first duties (if the groom in the morning, which gener.iUy commences at six o'clock, a little e.irtier or later according to the work required, is to get the stable cleaned out, and the horses fed. Theh.iy should be put liglitly into the rack, and a little after racking, as this is called, the usual feed of oats should be put into the manger. The morning allowance of water is usually reserved until after dressing, but sometimes horses refuse to feed except they drink first, and then a small quantity of water should be given. The stable- boy is next to clear away the dung and moistened litter, which should be done every d.-iy. The soiled litter should be removed together with the dung, and none of these should remain in the stable all day. The floor of the stall should be thoroughly swept even in the joints of the paving, whether bricks or stones. The use of litter or straw spread over the floor of the stall is sufficiently obvious. It is to form a tolerably soft and warm covering to the naked stones or bricks with which the stalls are paved. It entices the horse to lie down, which relieves him if fatigued, and is favourable to the recovery of over-strained limbs : it also prevents an unequal pressure which results from rough paving ; it may likewise be proper to state that many horses will not stale readily on b.are bricks, from the disagreeable effect of the urine splashing against their legs. But if too much litter be used, particularly in the day, some are of opinion tljat it is apt to heat the horse's feet and cause a contraction of the horn of the hoof, as well as to make the legs swell : if not changed every day, but suffered to remain soaked with urine, it has a most prejudicial effect from the noxious vapours that are engendered ; and, although in well-managed stables the litter is changed evei^ day, yet still there is frequently great negligence in this respect among farmers and others. Formerly, oak floors were used, with numerous holes to allow the urine to pass, but these are now seldom used here, though they are frequent abroad. The litter should be laid on smoothly, and with great care ; wheat straw is the best material, and is mostly used in England; oat straw is softer, but is not so easily even, and is more apt to run into heaps. Bean and pease straw make very indifferent bedding. Where straw cannot be procured other substances will do, as sawdust, wood shavings, dried tanners' bark, or leaves. Sawdust is very useful to sprinkle over the floor of the stable after it has been washed, to absorb the wet that lodges in the joints of the stones, and likewise prevents them from being