THEORY OF BREAD-MAKING. Chap. III. sub-carbonate or bi-carbonate of ammonia being mixed with the dough, the latter will, on baking, become spongy, as if it had been fermented with yeast. Tlie reason is this ; the carbonate of ammonia, being very volatile, is, by the heat, converted into a gaseous body, which, after filling the dough with cells, flies off entirely, leaving not a trace behind. This has been occasionally practised by London bakers. 4300. Another method is also used by some bakers, for which a patent has been taken, and the bread produced by it is called patent unfermented bread. Instead of the ordinary quantity of common salt put into the dough, carbonate of soda and muriatic acid, in due proportions, are kneaded up with the dough as rapidly as possible, which causes it to rise immediately. The explanation is this; the muriatic acid unites with the soda, and sets free the carbonic acid of the carbonate; this gas then distends the dough, giving it a vesicular character. The muriatic acid and soda, being the ingredients of which salt is formed, remains in the dough as salt, no other salt being necessary. This method is found to answer, and to make excellent bread; by it time and trouble are saved, and all risk of carrying the fermentation too far, as in the common method with yeast, is avoided. By some it is thought that bread made in this manner is particularly suited to invalids. Sect. V. ADULTERATION OF BREAD. 4.101. There is no doubt that both flour and bread have been occasionally adulterated, and sometimes with deleterious substances, though we believe such practices are at present not common. It is, however, useful to know what are the substances usually resorted to for sophistication, and likewise how to detect such frauds. 4302. Flour of bad or indifferent quality, or damaged, being sold at an inferior price, is perhaps at present what we have most to dread from dishonest bakers, since the means of detecting deleterious substances introduced instead of flour are so simple and well understood, that few will venture to use them. The mere inferiority of flour cannot easily be discovered by chemical tests, and can only be judged of by the general quality of the bread. It is chiefly to conceal the defects of the flour that alum, and sometimes sub-carbonate of ammonia, are added. When the flour is damaged, the gluten is in part destroyed, and it is difficult to make the bread rise sufficiently, without the addition of something. '4303. Alum has certainly been employed by some London bakers for the purpose of adulterating bread, since many convictions have taken place of bakers who were found to have alum in their possession for this purpose. We believe, however, that there are many respectable bakers who never employ so deleterious a material. The following will be useful information, in order to put the public upon its guard : — There are several objects for which a'um is put into bread ; one of them is to enable the baker to make out of imperfect or d.imaged flour a bread that shall look as if it were made from the best flour ; a second motive is, that the bre.ad may absorb more water, and therefore weigh more than it ought from a ccrt.iin quantity of flour; and a thira is, to make the loaves part from each other more readily. The two first reasons are positivclv fraudulent i to the last there would be no objection, were tlie alum perfectly harmless. It Is well known that it is impossible to make the whitest kind of bread light and porous, and of the colour and appear, ance to which the public are now accustomed, of flour alone and unadulterated, except it be of the very best quality ; and we have shown, that when wheat flour is damaged by any cause that injures its gluten, the bread m.ade from it will not rise properly. The way in which alum acts in covering this defect, as well as that of colour, or what may be termed bleaching the flour, is not well understood ; but the fact appears to be, that a small quantity of alum is suflicient to produce a remarkable eflect. It has been confidently asserted, that many bakers purchase a mixture of flour, alum, and salt, for the purpose of adding it to d.imaged flour, and that this is known among themselves by the name oi^ sharp whites ; sometimes it is called sli^tf- By means of this compound, they are enabled to deceive the public, and to make bread composed of bad flour piUs for that which can only be manufactured from pure ingredients. Dr. lire states, tliat he found the pro- portions of alum in bread to be variable, but that its quantity appeared to be in proportion to the badness of the flour. 4304. It has been said, that the small quantity of alum which is employed (an ounce to a sack of flour) cannot be prejudici.-il to health ; others maintain, that the proportion of alum, if used at all, is as murli as three or four ounces to a sack of flour, and tliat less will not have the desired efl'ect. On this subject, how- over, medical men generally .agree that even a small quantity of this astringent subst.ance t.iken continually cannot fail to injure the constitution. The practice is forbidden by law, and any tampering with the hrallli of the public deserves severe punishment. It is pretty certain that alum is not used by the most respectable b.'ikers ; and it is quite certain, that when the best flour is employed, alum is not necessary to make the bread white. 4:10.5. To detect nluvi in hrend requires some knowledge of chemistry, and we must recollect that alum consists of sulphuric acid, alumina, and potash. Crumble about two ounces of the bread suspected in half a pint of distilled water; boil tlie mixture a few minutes, and filler the liquor through unsized paper, Kva- por.ate the fluid to about one-fourth of its origin.al bulk ; divide it into two parts. Into one of these let fall a solution of muriate of barytes (now called chloride of barium); if a copious white prei:ipitate ensue, which does not disappear by the addition of pure nitric .acid, the presence of alum may bo suspected, as this preci- pitate Indicates sulphuric acid. Into the other half drop a little aqua-amm(mia ; if alumina be present, the other constituent of alum, a light pi ecinit.atc will appear, which will be re-dissolved by a few drops of a solu- tion of caustic potash. Hread, made without alum, produces. whiHi assayed In this manner, merely a very slight precipitate, which origiiLites from a minute portion of sulphate of magnesia contained in all common salt of commerce; and bread, made with salt freed from sulphate of magnesia, produces an infu.slon witli water, which does not become dlaturlied by the baiytic test. There are more accurate methods than this, by detecting the several conslltuenti of alum, siilpliuric acid, alumina, iiid potash ; but as these demand coii-