FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVIL 994 through a very strong press, or under a heavy hammer, by -Nvhich it is crushed, and all the juicy matter forced out: this leaves the fibres dry and resembling a large skein, •which, after being rinsed in water, and dried, becomes easily separable into a -white glossy mate- rial, of considerable strength, resembling tlax. This plant grows abundantly in tropical countries with very little cultivation; and it has lately been proposed to employ it in this way. 5861. Cloth has been manufactured from the wool of the cotton grasses, by Mr. Helliwel of Greenhurst Hay, near Todmorden, in Yorkshire. The cloth is russet, very firm, and beautiful; he has also made yarn, for stockings, of the same material. There are two kinds of cotton grass plants: the common or single-headed cotton grass, Eriophorum vagmatum; and the narrow-leaved or many-headed cotton grass, Eriophorum angusti- folium, both perennial plants; but it was from the latter that the cloth and yarn were made. This plant grows wild principally in the highest and most useless land in the kingdom ; and it is thought that on Stansfield Common, near Todmorden, there might be from two to three hundredweight produced upon an acre, and that the cost would not exceed 2d. to 3(/. a poimd.—Leeds Mercury. 5862. The stalks of nettles have been used in France for making cloth. 5863. Hop stalks have been used in Sweden for making a strong kind of cloth, by a process very similar to that of preparing flax. 5864. Glass is a substance that must once have appeared to be one of the most unfit for this purpose; yet the art of spinning this brittle substance into very fine filaments, while in a semi-fluid state, has suggested the idea of making the threads fine enough to be employed as a material for cloth. Glass is known to be one of the most elastic sub- stances ; and so great is the elasticity of its filaments, which can be made thinner than hair, that they bend easily in any direction without breaking. A manufacture has lately been established, in which spun glass is employed, together with silk, in forming a splendid kind of brocade, in which the glass threads form the figured pattern. This glass may he made of any colour : when yellow, thej' imitate gold; and, when white, they look like silver : and they possess one great advantage, that they can never tarnish nor change colour in any way. Nothing can exceed the beauty and richness of this new kind of cloth, which has already been employed for dress and furniture. Specimens of this beautiful manufacture may be seen at the, shop of Williams and Sowerby, Oxford Street, London, who are the patentees. CHAP. vn. LACE, Sect. I. HISTORICAL REM AUKS. 5865. This delicate and beautiful fabric, which has always been esteemed one of the most ornamental parts of dress, may lay claim to high antiquity, as it appears, from paintings, to have been used for the borders on dresses of Grecian ladies. It has been long made in Italy, and was brought from thence into France and the Netherlands: from the latter country the manufacture came to England, it is supposed, by some refugees who settled in Bedfordshire and Buckinghamshire, where, in 1640, this art was in a flourish- ing condition. It bad arrived at great perfection in the Netherlands, particularly in Antwerp, Brussels, Mechlin, Louvaine, and other places. Brussels and Mechlin laces were worn by the nobility and persons of high rank in the time of Charles I., Queen Anne, and George I., as is evident from the portraits by Vandyke, Sir Peter Lily, and Sir Godfrey Kneller. These laces were rich and durable, and were worked by hand on the cushion or pillow. In some places in England, lace was also made with great skill particularly at Honiton in Devonshire, some of which nearly, if not quite, equalled the best Brussels point lace ; and, during the war, veils of it were sold for from twenty to one hundred guineas. A very rich dress of lace, worn by her present Miyesty, has been made lately at Honiton. Sect. 11. mannfactdre of lace. 5866 Lace is a delicate net-work, formed of thread, cotton, or silk, the meshes of which are varied in their figure, being eight-sided, six-sided, &c. The lace is sometimes orna