Book I. 22 ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. absurdities of the Dutch taste of former times, nor that we overlook the merit of numerous improvements of the present day : we only propose that a mixture of the artificial with the natural should be introduced, such as is sanctioned by the works of the greatest masters in landscape painting, who, having studied profoundly the principles of picturesque beauty, are undoubtedly the best acquainted with it. And at the same time that we express our opinion on the " capabilities " of the style we have advocated (to use the expression of an eminent landscape gardener), we must not conceal, that it cannot be treated successfully except by artists of the highest class ; and that attempts by those not well versed in the true principles of art are in great danger of being puerile, and even disgusting. It has been justly remarked that our mansions or villas are seldom well connected with the surrounding grounds, owing to the architect and landscape gardener being distinct persons, or not acting in concert. There can be no doubt but that many of the fine compositions to be seen in Italian villas have been produced by the great artists of former times, when it was more the custom to unite the three professions of architect, sculptor, and painter. As we recede from the mansion, the appearance of art may diminish, tiU at last it is no longer desirable, and we may trust to those characters which nature alone presents in perfection. Water somewhere in the grounds is an agreeable feature ; where it does not exist naturally, it may be sometimes introduced artificially, but so as if it seemed to belong to the place. Stagnant water, however, should by all means be avoided, since it is productive of noxious exhalations. As we do not propose to treat here of modem landscape gardening as a science, we can only refer those of our readers who wish to acquire some knowledge of it to study the writings of Shenstone, Gilpin, Uvedale Price, Knight, Repton, Meason, the late Thomas Hope, most of whose principles have been collected together by Loudon. 68. The entrance to the grounds from the public road is usually marked by a large gate and lodge for the porter, which is sometimes an ornamented building. Perhaps it is good taste not to aim at ornamenting it much. 69. Tlie situation of the Jlower and kitchen gardens must be regulated by the soil, aspect, and other circumstances depending upon the locality. It is convenient that the latter should be near to the stable court, and not far from the kitchen. For the management of the gardens, we refer the reader to " Loudon's Encyclopaedia of Gardening." CHAP. V. DUTIES OF THE AKCHITECT. Since it is not always possible to meet with a house newly built with all the requisite conveniences, and in the desired situation ; the only resource may be to build a new one, which can be exactly suited to the wants of the proprietor, and which may be constructed with all the modem improvements. 70. Having resolved on building, the first step to be taken is to engage an architect or surveyor, terms which are nearly synonymous, the chief difference being, that the former title is supposed to mark a higher grade in the profession. Having put the architect in possession of all the necessary information to enable him to design the intended mansion, such as the extent of the family and establishment, the limits of expense, &e., the first thing proper to be done is to make such rough drawings as shall convey a general idea of the plan and distribution of the apartments, together with the appearance of the exterior, accompanied by an approximation to the cost. This being approved of, it will then be necessary to prepare plans more detailed ; and to make out an accurate estimate, the labour of which being very considerable, it is not advisable to go through it in the first instance, until the proprietor and architect thoroughly understand each other as to the convenience and style to be aimed at. This first step is too often omitted ; and at once highly finished drawings are made, the effect of which is to bias the judgment and inexperienced eye, or to give rise to unnecessary expense before the design is actually determined upon. There should, however, ultimately be plans of each story, carefully drawn, with elevations of the principal fronts; and it would be desirable if some kind of model could be got up at a small expense, for this would be much better understood by many persons than drawings alone. It must be evident how useful it is to bestow much care in considering the plans upon paper, as these can be easily altered ; whereas alterations during the execution of a building are not only difficult and expensive, but often render the original estimate use- less, and indeed lead to setting it aside. It ought to be known that it is quite possible to make an estimate for a new house that shall be very near the actual cost; but that this i