353 NUTRITION CONSIDERED, Book VII. ilerived from its use, as it attracts more flies into a house than it destroys. All are not Liilike tempted to taste of it. Quassia and sugar, with a little water, set about a kitchen in jaucers, is a poison for flies, and not for human beings, and may therefore be safely used. 1710. Mice and rats are animals well known, and against which our best defence is the :jat. In the absence of a good mouser traps are employed, of which various kinds are iiiold in the shops. As neither mice nor rats can harbour where there are no holes for hhem to take refuge in, great care should be taken to stop up all such where they are iiliscovered : to a neglect of this may be attributed frequent visits from these animals hhat might have been avoided. Holes in brickwork should be stopped with Parker's yenient. As both mice and rats will gnaw wood, they will often make entrances for hhemselves into places where provisions are kept: as soon as any of these are discovered ;htie carpenter or bricklayer should be sent for. We object to the employment of poisonous uubstances for destroying these vermin, on account of the fatal accidents that have been xnown to result from their incautious use. Rats frequently come from the drains, but ^ htie use of proper drain traps prevents this. (See Book. I.) BOOK VII. ON FOOD. CHAP. I. NUTRITION CONSIDERED PHYSIOLOGICALLY AND CHESnCALLY. Sect. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 1711. The preservation of health depends so much upon a judicious selection of food as well I» on the modes of preparing it, that we do not consider it necessary to offer any apology ipr soliciting the attention of our readers to a more than ordinary consideration of this I ihbject. The general diffusion of knowledge, and its application to the ordinary purposes ■ ■. life, are daily presenting various subjects under points of view hitherto neglected, and jiee are desirous of treating this branch of domestic economy in a manner commensurate liidth the advanced state of education. We feel the more anxious on this point, since, Kthough it is one capable of exciting universal interest, yet sound and accurate know- ddge of what may be denominated the philosophy of food, has hitherto been limited to a nrrow circle, scarcely extending beyond the sphere of medical practitioners. 1712. It is only by resorting to the sciences of physiology and chemistry in aid of experience, 1 lat the subject of food can be successfully investigated. The first makes us acquainted ith the anatomical structure of the animal frame, and the nature of those functions upon h nutrition depends. The second teaches what are the component parts of the various stances usually employed as nutriment, and enables us to perceive substantial reasons \ one species of food is preferable to another. Unless the subject be viewed in a u ntific manner, it is impossible to acquire any other than the most vague notions t-ppecting it, nor to possess the means of distinguishing among the thousands of opinions ti 'oat, such as have just pretensions to our confidence from those which are founded in pror. 111713. It may be imagined that thus to clothe our subject in a scientific garb is only to ( lOder obscure that which might be made sufficiently intelligible without it. A sort of licule has sometimes been attempted to be thrown upon the employment of what are d learned terms in treating of the affairs of common life; and this may be just when y are used unnecessarily, or when they are carried to excess ; but it is possible to • rrsue a medium course : we must have precise and accurate terms to express precise and iDurate ideas. In employing such expressions, therefore, as are constantly used by all - en of science, we are guilty of no affectation, but are influenced by the same necessity '■ iiich they feel, not being able to convey our ideas without them. It is not, therefore, .' employment of scientific terms that is ridiculous, but the using them when ordinary ' irra.ses would do just as well. This fault we shall endeavour to avoid. 11714. // may likewise be objected, that it is unreasonable to expect that those who are prin- ' ' lally engaged in the preparation of food slioidd, with their limited education, understand A a