us Book III. ON VENTILATION. purpose of fumigation, or disinfecting, put ten ounces of common salt, well dried, two ounces of powdered black oxide of manganese into an earthen pan, together with six ounces of strong sulphuric acid diluted with four ounces of water. The earthenware vessel should be placed in hot sand. This will be sufficient for a room forty feet by twenty. The chlorine gas will be formed by this mixture, and will rise from it. It has an ex- tremely suffocating smell, and particular care should be taken not to inhale the gas where it is formed, as it is extremely irritating to the lungs, and will produce all the symptoms of a cold and cough. When attempted to be breathed quite pure, it has proved fatal. The place, therefore, where it is used, should be shut up with the gas in it for ten or twelve hours, and should be entered cautiously, taking care to have afterwards a free circulation of air through it to carry off the chlorine. This method of using the gas is inconvenient in small apartments, but may be easily managed in large buildings when empty. The irritating and dangerous effect upon the lungs by the use of the gas extricated in the above manner, is obviated by employing the following combinations. 527. Chloride of lime and chloride of soda are the substances now used as tlie most conve- nient and the most effectual preparations for the purpose of disinfecting. It is found that chlorine will combine with pure lime and pure soda, making chloride of lime and chlo- ride of soda, but tliat the affinity of chlorine for these substances is very weak. As the attraction of lime and of soda for carbonic acid is stronger than for chlorine, upon chlo- ride of lime being exposed to the atmosphere, it becomes decomposed by the lime taking carbonic acid from it, and consequently leaving the chlorine free to escape, which it does very slowly ; and the change is more rapid when the air is charged with putrid effluvia, because the carbonic acid then present promotes the decomposition. Nothing more is necessary, therefore, than to put some chloride of lime, with forty times as much water, into dishes, and place them in the room which it is requii-ed to disinfect or to guard against contagion; or to remove any disagreeable smells. The odour of the chlorine which issues spontaneously is rather unpleasant, and excites coughing at first; but the best way is to begin with a quantity too small for that, and to increase it gi-adually. This inconvenience is, however, trivial when compared with the pernicious nature of the effluvia from contagious or infectious disorders. In cases where infectious diseases are so near that danger is apprehended, chloride of lime or of soda are the best known preventives; and they are so safe, that they may be used wherever there are sick patients, except in the commencement of fever, when it would be hurtful for them to remain in the room with the gas. 528. Chloride of lime was formerly called the oxymuriate of lime, and is the well-known bleaching powder. It is made by exposing thin strata of newly-slaked lime in fine powder to chlorine gas in a closed vessel: the gas is absorbed. The chloride is a dry powder, having a faint smell of chlorine. When dissolved in water, it is the bleaching liquid. Being made in large quantities for manufactures, it may be had at many chemists' shops ; and every chemist knows how to procure it. A solution of chloride of lime in water may likewise be sprinkled over the apartment to destroy offensive smells. A cloth wetted with it, and laid over a corpse for an hour or two where putridity has commenced, will prevent any effluvia from being perceived: and in this manner it is sometimes employed in cases of dissection. By breathing through a sponge dipped in this fluid, a person was enabled to descend and walk with impunity along a public sewer in Paris, where previous attempts to enter it without this precaution had cost many lives. The same method might be used in emptying drains, cesspools, or other places where putrid matter renders the place dangerous; and it has been employed with success in destroying the stench of bilge-water in ships, and correcting the confined air of their holds. Clothes worn by persons during pestilential diseases are disinfected by being washed in a solution of chloride of soda; and the linen of sick persons, where there is any danger of infection, should be put into water with chloride of lime or soda as it is taken off. This solution is also found extremely usefid as an application to ulcers or putrescent sores. 529. Chloride of soda, which is equally efficacious with chloride of lime, is knotm by the name of Labarraquc's disinfecting liquid. It is prepared by passing a current of chlorine gas through a cold and rather dilute solution of common carbonate of soda. It is neces- sary to send as much chlorine into the solution as will displace the M-hole of the carbonic acid. A particular account, by Mr. Faraday, of the mode of preparing it, may be seen in the Quarterly Jouj-nal, New Series, II. 84. The employment of these powerful disin- fecting agents should not, however, prevent the use of all other means which may be considered as additional securities j such as washing clothes and linen, whitewashing, scouring, &c. 530. Tobacco smoke is considered by some persons as a preservative from infection; but its influence is at least extremely doubtful. 531. Camphor has been very generally relied upon as a protection against infectious diseases ; but its value is estimated very low at present among physicians.