ON COFFEE. 711 Chap. XI. for their scientific acquirements; amongst them we may itiention particularly Count Rumford, and lately Mr. Donovan. 4067. The most usual method of malting coffee in Em/land is the following: — Put fresh ground coffee into a coffee-pot, fg. 588., with a sufficient quantity of water, and set this on the fire till it boils for a minute or two ; then re- move it from the fire, pour out a cupful, -which is to be returned into the coffee-pot to throw down the grounds that may be floating; repeat this, and let the cottee-pot stand near the fire, but not on too hot a place, until the grounds have subsided to the bottom; in a few minutes the coffee will be clear without any other preparation, and may be poured into cups : in this manner, with good materials in sufBcient quantity, and proper care, excel- lent coffee may be made. The most valuable part of the coffee is soon extracted, and it is certain that long boiling dissipates the fine aroma and flavour. Some make it a rule not to suffer the coffee to boil, but only to bring it just to the boiling point ; but it is said by Mr. Donovan, that it requires boiling for a little time to extract the whole of the bitter, in which he conceives much of the exhilarating qualities of the coffee reside. As an improvement on the common mode, he therefore recommends that the whole of the water should be divided into two parts; one half should be put on the fire with the coffee, and as soon as the liquor boils it should be taken off the fire, allowed to subside for a few seconds, and then poured off as clear as it will run. Immediatel)-, the remaining half of the water, at a boiling heat, is to be poured on the grounds, the coffee-pot is to be placed on the fire, and kept boiling three minutes. This wiU extract aU the bitterness left on the grounds; and after a few moments' subsidence, the clear part is to be poured off, and mixed with the former liquor. This mixed liquor now contains all the qualities, both aroma and bitter, which originally existed in the roasted coffee, and is as hot as any taste could desire it. From what has been said, the error of some persons is evident, who suppose that long boiling is necessary to extract the strength of coffee. 40G8. T/ie usual method of preparing cqffir in France, as described by the French naturalist Du Tour, is the following. Let the powder be poured into the coffee-pot filled with boiling water, in the proportion of two ounces and a half to two pounds, or two English pints of water. Let the mixture be stirred with a spoon, and the coflee-pot be soon taken off the fire, but suffered to remain closely shut, for about at least two hours, on the warm ashes of a wood fire. During the infusion the liquor should be several times agitated by a chocolate frother, or something of the same kind, and be finally left for about a quarter of an hour to settle. This long very gentle simmering over hot ashes is probably favourable, but it would require some care to effect it where coal is the fuel. 4069. The Cafd noir of the French is coffee made strong with water only. CafS au lait must not be made by boiling coffee and milk together, as milk is not proper to extract the coffee ; the coffee must first be made as cafe noir, only stronger ; as much of this coffee is poured in the cup as is required, and the cup is then filled up with boiled milk. Cafe a la creme is made by adding boiled cream to strong clear coffee, and heating them together. 4070. The clearing of coffee is a circumstance demanding particular attention. After the heaviest parts of the grounds have settled, there are still fine particles suspended for some time, and if the coffee be poured off before these have subsided, the liquor is defi- cient in that transparency which is one test of its perfection; for coffee not well cleared has always an unpleasant bitter taste. In general, the coffee becomes clear by simply remaining quiet for a few minutes, as we have stated ; but those who are anxious to have it as clear as possible employ some artificial means of assisting the clearing. The addi- tion of a little isinglass, hartshorn -shavings, skins of eels or soles, white of eggs, &c., has been recommended for clearing ; but it is evident that these substances to produce their effect, which is upon the same principle as the fining of beer or wine, should be dissolved previously, for if put in without, it would require so much time to dissolve, that the flavour of the coffee would vanish. 4071. T/ie while of egg clears well, but often passes into the coffee cups when the coffee is poured out, in the form of little shreds consisting of the coagulated egg; the coffee in that case should be strained. Mr. Donovan recommends drying white of egg by spreading it thin upon a plate before a brisk fire for twelve or ,fourteen hours. This dried egg will easily scale oil' the plate, and may be kept for any length of time in a bottte corked. A small bit of the size of a sixpence will be sulllcient to clear tliree ounces of coffee. All that is necessary is to throw it into the half of the coffee made to boil as in the above directions, by which it will be dissolved, and when this half is .idd<'d to the other that had been already poured off, the clearing will be effected on resting a few miiuites ; or this dried white of egg may \w previously dissolved in a table-spoonful of boiling water, and added to tin; coffee before it is set down to settle. 4J572. The difficully of clearing coffee has led In Ihe invention of a. varied/ of apparalus for coffec-rnahiiig. One of the simplest modes is putting the coffee into a bag of muslin sus- pended to the rim of the coffee-pot, fig. .'iSO.; and by pouring boiling water through it, the soluble parts of the cotFee are separated, and the grounds thoroughly retained, the bag Z z 4