1061 Chap. VII. ADULTERATION OF ESSENTIAL OILS. I them get perfectly dry ; take a lump of sugar, and rub them till all the yellow rmd is taken up by the sugar; scrape olfthe surface of the sugar into a preserving pot, and press it hard down ; cover it very close, and it will keep some time. This method of preserving an essential oil is termed an oleosaccharum. 6347. Tincture of allspice, usually called essence of allspice— This is very useful in making mulled wine, ; and in flavouring gravies, for which a few drops will suffice. It is made by adding a drachm of oil of i pimento to two ounces of strong spirit ot wine. 6348. Another method.— Steep three ounces of allspice bruised in a quart of brandy. This is used for the J same purpose as the last. 6349. Tincture of nutmeg is made as that from allspice. 6350. Tincture qf cinnamon. — Macerate tliree ounces of bruised cinnamon in a bottle of French brandy I or rectified spirit. This was at one time much in vogue as a stomachic, and is still considered as a useful I remedy. 6351. Compound tincture of cinnamon Macerate for fourteen days, in two pints of proof spirit, six I drachms of cinnamon bark, bruised, three drachms of cardamom seeds, bruised, two drachms each of long I pepper and ginger ; filter. 63.52. The spirits, or, as they are usu.nlly railed, essences of nutmeg, cloves, aud cinnamon, are prepared by ; adding the essential oils to brandy or rectified spirit. 66-')3. Spirits are also prepared frota various sweet and savoury herbs, which are extremely convenient in c culinary preparations. These are obtained by steeping the dried herbs in brandy or proof spirit. 6354. Dr. Kitchener's soup-herb spirit Infuse for ten days, in a pint of brandy, half an ounce each of 1 lemon th>*rae, winter savoury, sweet marjoram, and sweet basil, two drachms of lemon-peel grated, the same I of eschalots, and one drachm of celery seed. 6355. Dr. Kitchener's spirit of savoury spice— Infuse for ten days, in a pint of brandy, one ounce of black 1 pepper, half an ounce of allspice, and a quarter of an ounce of nutmeg grated. 6356. Dr. Kitchener observes, that " cooks who are jealous of their reputation, and housekeepers who value t their health, will prepare these articles, and some other ingredients for sauces above mentioned, at home; ; there are quite as nii\ny reasons why they should, as there are for the preference usually given to home-made t bread and home-brewed beer." 63.57. The term extract refers more properly to the mode of preparation than to the ! nature of the substance prepared. Although chemists in general have described e.rtrac- i live or the extractive principle as a peculiar proximate principle in vegetables, yet it is mow doubted whether there is any one principle to -which this name can with propriety i be applied. Making an extract consists in dissolving by water, spirit, or any other men- ^ jstruura, such parts as are soluble, and concentrating or inspissating this solution by heat tto a thick consistence, or sometimes to entire solidity. Hence we find in an extract -generally a great variety of substances, as mucilage, sugar, tannin, resin, gluten ; in short, 1 whatever happened to be present, and could be dissolved by the menstruum employed. If ■water alone is employed, the solution is called a watery extract; if alcohol or proof ■ spirit, then the produce is a spirituous extract. 63.58. To make a water)/ extract, the substances are generally boiled in water, the ■ decoction is strained, and then boiled down till it has attained the required consistence, and perhaps gently dried on a stove. If a spirituous extract be required, a tincture of the -substance is first made, and this is evaporated gently in a water or sand-bath ; or a dis- tilling apparatus may be employed, and thus the spirit be saved. In performing the operation of making watery extracts, a higher temperature than boiling water must not be employed, and yet the evaporation must be effected as quickly as possible, by having the evaporating vessel broad and shallow, and set in a water-bath. Some extracts are made by a mixture of spirits and water, it being found tliat certain plants contain both a : resin and a gum, the first being soluble only in spirit, and the latter in water, as extract of jalap, of Peruvian bark, &c. Some extracts require long digestion. To prevent too great a heat affecting the properties of extracts, a method has been invented by Mr. Barry for preparing them in vacuo, that is to say, in vessels from which the air has been expelled, by which the virtues of the plants are more effectually pre- served, from the boiling or evaporation being effected with less heat than in the common : pressure of the atmosphere ; that is, less than 212°, These extracts are generally green, land contain saline crystals, but some of them will not keep. Extracts are chiefly used 1 medicinally, as extract of liquorice, of aloes, of rue, &c. CHAP. vn. ADULTEKATION OF ESSENTIAL OILS. 63.59. 77ie adulteration of essential oils is very common, since many of them are of high ; price, and come from abroad. They are sophisticated in several ways. 1. They have expressed oils mixed with them. 2. They are mixed with alcohol. 3. They ,ire adulteiated ■with chc.iper essential oils. If any essential oil be ariii/lernted rrilh npresscd oil, it is easy to discover the fraud by .idiling a little spirit of wine to a few drops of the suspected oil, and shaking them together; the spirit will dissolve all the oil that Is essential, or procured by distillation, and leave all the expressed oil that 'Was mixed with it untouched. When an essential oil is adulterated uiilh alcohol, or rectified spirits of winn, this may be ilone in any proportion, up to th.it of an equal qu.intlty, without being easily discoverable either by the smell or taste. 'I he way to discover this fraud is to drop a few drops of the oil into a glass of pure ■water ; and If the oil be .idulteriited with spirit, the water will Immediately turn milky, and by continuing to shake the n]^», the whole quantity of spirit will be absorbed by the water, and the oil left pure at top. // an essential oil be adulterated by another hut cheaper CMCHdVi^ oiV, the dctoctlon is more ilMHcult. As all volatile oils agree in the general properties of solubility in spirit of wine, indissulubillty in water, or misci- 3 Y 3