CARRIAGES. Book XXIII. 1126 coutaiuc'd in tubes, through a hole in the upper part of which the wick passes, the candle being pressed upwards by a spiral spring as fast as it is consumed. In dress carriages, the lamps are circular and ornamental, and contain wax candles, though the light is inferior to that of oil. Lamps for travelling are square, with shuttei's for day to protect the glass ; they burn oil with flat wicks, and reflectors of silvered metal are usually added. Means have not yet been contrived for using successfully Argand's lamps, as they are liable to be extinguished by the gusts of wind, and the motion of the carriage causes the oil to overflow. 6693. Tim iron used in carriages requires to be of the toughest quality ; the best is that kind called king and queen, which is prepared from fragments of old wrought-iron col- lected and welded together. There is a large manufactory of it at Rotherhithe. The irons ai-e extremely numerous, and much of the strength of the carriage depends upon plates properly applied to the various parts. The springs have been already mentioned. The body loops or iron brackets bolted to the bottom of the body, one at each comer, to fix the suspension braces to, require to be very sound and strong. 6604. On the quality of the leather depends frequently the safety of the carriage; the suspension braces are made of several straps sewed together firmly. Besides these, there are collar braces, which go from the perch to each side of the body, to prevent it from turning over, and breaking the springs by a reverse action in case of violent concussion. There is also a clieck brace from the spring beds to the body, to prevent it from swinging too far fore and aft. 6695. Chaise heads, used to most open carriages, are formed of hoops connected together by long iron joints, and covered with leather blacked and made waterproof. The fronts are round or square, with curtains to close it occasionally. 6696. The painting and varnishing of carriages are carefully performed. The body receives six or seven coats of oil paint; these, when dry, are rubbed smooth with pumice stone and water, and two more coats are added ; after that it receives five or six coats of copal varnish, which, when thoroughly dry, is highly polished. This varnish is the hardest and least liable to be scratched. Adjusting the colours properly demands con- siderable taste. It is customary to confine the colours to the lower half of the carriage, except some stripes round the door and window ; the remaining upper quarfer is made black, a practice not ornamental, and which appears to have been continued from the time ■when it was the custom to cover all the upper part of the body with blacked leather. Heraldic bearings on the panels used always to be painted in their proper colours ; now they are frequently painted in relief in nearly the same colour as the grounds. The carriage part and wheels receive several coats of oil paint, and are ornamented with stripes of various colours, to give a light appearance; they are then varnished with common varnish. 6697. Carving in ordinary carriages is sparingly employed, as it tends to harbour dirt, and impedes the process of cleaning ; the timbers of the carriage are ornamented with a few sunk mouldings and small scrolls, to take off the plain appearance which they would have if left square. In state carriages more is introduced. 6098. Carriage building is subdivided into numerous brandies, and employs m.iny distinct trades, only a part of which is engaged in the factories, as body makers, carriage makers, wheelwrights, axletree makers, smiths and spring makers, curriers, brace and harness makers, carvers, painters, japanners, lamp makers, trunk makers, blind makers, lace makers, ivory workers, platers, chasers, embroiderers. Besides these, there are the manufacturers of cloth, glass, and other materials. In tliese various branches there are many skilful workmen, particularly the smiths and wheelwrights, some of whom receive high wages, and work by the piece ; but few of them are in constant employment all the year. It is remaik.ahle that the workmen consider themselves as of very different grades in point of raid;, and the body ni.akers and wheelwrights stiind at the head. It is generally admitted that the carriages built in Engl.and excel all otliers in point of light- ness, strength, and goodness of workmanship ; but wo have been indebted to our neighbours for several hints in point of form. 6699. In travelling, several circumstances respecting carriages require to be attended to. If the axles of the vehicle are of the commonest kind, they will require to be looked at frequently, and have fresh grease every seventy or eighty iniles. CoUinge's patent axles will run from three to fom* thousand miles without fresh oil; but when they are to be fresh oiled, it is best to get a coach builder to do it, except the servant has been taught and understands it perfectly. If the wheel runs dry, the axle gets damaged, and perhaps may break suddenly. The wheel i)late also requires greasing, and perhaps new leather to the transom. The suspending braces should likewise be examined, as the safety of the carriage depends upon them. Persons who suff'er from the jolting of a carriage may sit on an additional loose cushion stuffed with horse-hair and. wire springs, or on an India rubber one filled with air by means of a stop-cock. 6700. Though sometimes the same carriage is used for town and for travelling, and a town chariot may be converted into a posting one, yet there are some objections to this. Mr. Adams observes that "the springs adapted to a light weight easily are not adapted to carry a heavy weight, and vice versa ; and a carriage must lose much of its beauty when used for travelling. These disadvantages have prevented some from keeping carriages, and