451 VEGETABLES USED AS FOOD. Chap. VII. G g 2 matter, easily mixes •with water, and forms emulsions, for which purpose it is much em- ployed in pharmacy. The oil is obtained by expression from the fruit of the almond tree (^Anu/ydalus communis). When pure, it is perfectly inodorous, and of an agreeable taste. 2361. Castor oil, obtained from the seed of liicinus communis, or Palma Chrisli, is used only medicinally. 2362. Many fixed vegetable oils do not remain liquid in our ordinary temperatures; some of them are called vegetable butters. These are very numerous; but the principal ones known to us are palm oil from the palm, cocoa nut oil from the kernels of the cocoa nut, butter o/cacao procured from the kernels of the Theobroma cacao, or chocolate nut. These oils, which are solid with us, but always soft or liquid in warm climates, are employed in India and Africa, as substitutes for butter in cooking, and also for making candles. See Book IV. " On Artificial Illumination." 2363. Drying oils, when exposed to the air, acquire a pellicle on the surface ; and if they are spread in a very thin layer, they harden and become solid, resembling resinous bodies, from the absorption of oxygen; on which account they are employed to mix with colours in painting, which the fat oils will not serve for, on account of their not drying. The principal drying oils are lins.eed oil, poppy oil, nut oil, hempseed oil. 2364. Linseed oil, from the seeds of the flax plant {Linum usitatissimim and perenne). The seeds are generally roasted before the oil is expressed, for the purpose of drying up the mucilage; it is only used in oil painting and in varnishing. 2365. Poppy oil, extracted from the seeds of Papaver smnniferum, is much cultivated in France, Holland, and Germany for this purpose. It is clear and transparent, and dries readily ; it is therefore employed in painting; when pure, it is without taste or odour. It is occasionally also used for the same purposes as olive oil, having none of the narcotic qualities of the poppy. 2366. Hempseed oil, made from the seed of the hemp {Cannabis sativa) is sometimes ' employed in painting ; but in Russia it is extensively used as food, though its taste is harsh : and disagreeable. 2367. Nut oil, from the fruit of Coi-ylus avelana, is used in this country only for painting; ' but in the middle departments of France it is employed as a seasoning for food; it is apt to I become rancid. 2368. Tlie drying quality of these oils is increased by boiling, before which they are said I to be raw. The method of boiling for this purpose has been described in Book I. under • " House Painting." 2369. Resins and natural balsams are dissolved by fat oils with the assistance of heat; ; and these oils united to the fixed alkalies make soap, an article of such importance as to demand a separate description in a subsequent part of this work. See Book XXII. 2370. Volatile oils, called also essential oils, are obtained from various parts of aromatic [ plants, as the flowers, leaves, bark, wood, and roots, rarely from the seeds, which mostly >; contain fixed oils. \Vhen these oils exist in the plants in great abundance, and are con- r tained in cells near the surface, they are sometimes procured by simple expression, as is the c case with the oil which lies in the rind of oranges and lemons; hut the greatest number 1 are procured by distillation as they rise, or are converted into vapour at the same heat as s water, 212°; hence their name volatile; for, as we stated, the fixed oils requu'e 600° to ; make them volatilise or change into vapour. The parts of the plant containing the •• volatile oil are put into a still with a quantity of water, and a moderate heat is applied. The oil is separated, rises with the aqueous vapour, and is condensed with it. Most of these oils, being lighter than water, swim upon the top; a few are heavier and sink to the bottom. 1 The volatile oils have not the unctuous quality of the fixed oils, but are generally as liquid ;as water, though a few are somewhat viscid. They have an acrid and burning taste, and : an odour extremely powerful, often very fragrant; the delightful odour of flowers proceeds ■ from the evaporation of the essential oils, which are formed and are contained in their cells. They are soluble in strong alcohol, and hence the essences of perfumers; but on adding 'water to the solution they are precipitated. They unite with water in a small quantitj', 'Which takes place in the above-mentioned process of distilling them; and this union con- - stitutes the distilled waters of pharmacy. From their great volatility and having no fatty , qualities, the stain which they make on paper when dropped upon it disappears altoge- Ither -when held near the fire. If the oil has been quite pure : if a greasy spot remain, it nhas been mixed with fixed oil. They do not unite readily with alkalies like the fixed oils, forming a species of soapy ■ compound called by the French savonules. When exposed to the air, they thicken from !lthe absorption of oxygen. The most abundant and useful of the essential oils is the oil of !itui"pentine, obtained by distillation from the natural juice, in which it is combined with ^iresin in the fir tribe. Most of these oils are employed in pharmacy or as perfumes. A Among the latter are the essence of jasmine, violets, roses, bergamot, &c. (See farther