ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 32 Book I. Fig. 25. cup is fixed, the edges of -whicli dip under the surface of the water. When water of any- kind is thrown on the cover, it passes down through the holes and finds its way under tlic edges of the inverted cup down through the tube d, and so into the drain; but if any foul air should come back the same way, before it gets out it would have to pass through the water ; but from its levity it lodges in the top of the hemispherical cup, and cannot descend through the water, except more pressure was exerted than is usually the case ; hence the cup dipping into the water is a complete trap or stop for the air, and eft'ectually hinders any bad smell or other noxious efiiuvia! from coming up from drains, which, indeed, should never be without this simple but useful contrivance. These traps likewise prevent the intrusion of rats, &c. This apparatus, how- ever, is sometimes liable to be deranged by neglect or bad usage : and it is proper to construct another kind, of brickwork. Some- where in the course of the drain let there be sunk a small square well, fig. 25. g g, built round with bricks laid in cement, and plastered on the inside with the same, so as to be completely water-tight and remain always filled with water. Across this well, let there be a piece of paving stone so fixed, that its top may touch the cover of the drain, and its lower edge dip below the surface of water in this trap or well. On the same principle as the bell trap, no air can pass along the drain, it being stopped by the water below the stone. A cheap trap may be constructed of common red earthen- ware, to be used in places where any waste water goes down to a drain. In fig. 26. a h c represents a piece of coarse pottery, of which the horizontal part a 6 is about nine inches square, perforated with holes; from the under side of this the piece c projects, and dips into the water that will always remain in the square receptacle d, and which will overflow and fall down by e into the drain. In cities and large towns the drains are carried into the common sewers; but in places where there are no sewers, ^'e- -S- it is necessary to carry the drains to some place where the water can be discharged with- out causing a nuisance. Cesspools or tanks bricked round are sometimes sunk to receive what is brought by the drains : but these should be avoided as much as possible, as they sometimes generate foul air that renders the place unhealthy. If used, their situations should be well covered and marked, and they should never be placed near the foundation of a building, but sunk at some distance from it. If the situation admits of it, the drains should empty themselves into some running sti-eam, whence the foul matter may be carried away, or be discharged into some place so far removed as not to injure the air of the dwelling by its noxious efiiuvia. 98. The sewers of London, in modern times, stand unrivalled for extent and excellent construction, and to this must be attributed much of the increased salubrity of the metropolis, although a good deal remains to be done to render them adequate to the wants of so immense a population. The great sewers are placed at such a depth as to drain even the lowest parts of the basement stories, a circumstance which struck with astonishment some engineers who were lately sent from Paris to collect information on this subject. In most cities and towns all that is attempted, in the way of drainage, is to get rid of the mere surface water, and where this is neglected, dangerous fevers are the frequent result. SoBSECT. 5. — Foundation. 99. To secure the strength and stability of an edifice, the foundation must be laid in a sound and substantial manner; and yet this is too often executed very negligently, from which result settlements and cracks in the walls, defects generally incurable, except at a vast expense, and endangering the safety of the buildings. A house built upon a rock is proverbially safe, but all- rocks are not good to build upon, only such as are of a firm texture. Some knowledge of the geological structure of the country would be useful, in enabling the architect to judge well of the nattire of the ground; sometimes boring to some depth will be prudent, and every precaution should be employed to avoid errors and failures in the foundation. It is a good rule never to trust to " made ground," that is, such as has been disturbed by man, but to dig the trench for the foundation down to the original stratum ; because no earth that has been once disturbed, ever becomes so firm as at first No ground where there are natural springs should be built upon, except great care be taken that they are well determined and arched ovei-. Clay, gravel, or even sand, may make a very solid foundation, provided their original beds are rtached, and there be no springs to affect them. All London is built upon sandy gravel, and the foundations are suflaciently durable when they have been built properly. 100. No general rule for the deptli offoundations can apply to every case, such as that given