3G9 OF ANIMAL FOOD. iJhap. II. ippear that the nutvitive qualities are in proportion to the fineness of the fibre and the elicacy of the meat. 1812. Age. — In general the young animals of any species are more gelatinous than the ider of the same species; hence their flesh is more soluble, and yields more to the action ■ boiling water; boils more tender, and is more nutritive to weak stomachs than that "older animals; but as they increase in age, the gelatine gradually diminishes ; they mtain more fibrin, albumen, and osmazome ; hence the flesh affords a stronger food, .'id has more flavour, until age again destroys these qualities, and rendej-s it stringy, ■\-y, and indigestible. By the increase of albumen the membranes become more solid, lid motion more difficult; and at last, sometimes the ossification of those parts takes place, iut though the flesh of young and old animals vary considerably in their properties, i;:me being too soft and flabby, and otliers too tough, yet at no period of life is it wsolutely unwholesome, provided the animals are in a healthy state. Calves and lamhs ^e seldom killed until they arrive at a certain age, on account of deficiency of flavour. I young animals not only is the fibrin more tender and delicate, but the fat in quad- ifpeds is distributed differently from what it is when they are older. In the latter case, ■/is chiefly collected in layers external to the muscles ; in the former, it is more dispersed rrough the muscles, so as to give the flesh a marbled appearance, which renders it .ore desirable for the table. This mixture or marbling never happens in birds. But oough the flesh of young animals is more tender, it is not always more digestible ; on te contrary, veal is less digestible than beefi lamb than mutton. Birds are most easily iTJested when )'oung. It is on account of the greater proportion of gelatine contained in ri calf than in the full-grown animal, that the feet of the former are employed for preparing ^•ong jellies ; and every one must have observed how much more gelatine is contained 1 the soup made from veal, than in that from beef. 11813. Sex.—The flesh of the female is almost always more delicate and finer gi'ained lan that of the male, which is often strong tasted. IBy a particular process in reference to sex at an early age, in all animals, quadrupeds, ri'ds, and even fishes, a remarkable alteration takes place in the flesh. It is much j'proved for the table, becoming fatter, larger, more tender, and more easy of digestion ; rare is also a greater deposition of fat between the fibres, as we see in the ox, capon, lUlet, &c. 11814. Season. — It is well known that certain kinds of animal food are not always in ttson, that is, equally good at all times of the year. This is owing to many causes, wording to the species of animal. The abundance or scarcity of food at particular asons affects the condition of some kinds : thus full-grown cattle, in general, are in the fit condition in the first winter months, in consequence of their having had the advan- e of plenty of fresh summer food. After that, the turnips and other vegetables which they are fed in consequence of the deficiency of grass, injures the flavour the meat; and in spring it becomes lean from bad or insufiicient provender. It so managed, that tolerable beef and mutton are always to be had in London, and they • there never absolutely out of season ; yet they are, in general, best in November, vcember, and January. Females, in general, are out of season when they are suckling, shave lately suckled. The condition of quadrupeds is not much affected during the t months of pregnancy, and the time when they are most in season is that when the nig have acquired the proper age for being killed. This is naturally in the summer ths. when lamb, veal, kid, and fawn, are most abimdant. Though there is a season • year when each species of animal is more naturally inclined to breed, yet, by treat- hem in a certain manner, this season may be advanced artificially. Thus breeders ii ive to procure lamb, as an article of luxury, as early as November and December ; ain breeds, as the Dorsetshire, are selected for this purpose ; on the contrary, by I I'P'Dg the ewes on cold poor hill pnsture, the lambing season is retarded. -815. "Fhe manner in which animals are fed, and the food upon which they are kept. . ct considerably, as we might expect, the fatness and flavour of the flesh and its fitness inutriment. The improvement of animals by careful breeding has been very consi- Jible ; but it has not always the same objects in view. Some of the methods affect the ■ of animals ; but, though these produce a greater quantity, they do not aKvays improve iquality of the flesh. Thus sheep fed in the rich pastures of Lincolnshire grow large fat, and produce much wool ; but the meat is coarse, insipid, and rank, compared .1 smaller breeds. The flesh of well-formed small animals, both of cattle and sheep, I ler grained, has a finer flavour, is more intermixed or marbled with fat, and aflbrds iier gravy, than that of large animals of the satne species. It is well known that the sh mutton fed on the hills, where there is short grass and wild herbs, is high-flavoured I tender without being fat. ihe flesh of all cattle fed in stalls, particularly when oil-cake is used, is not of so fine vour. and in some cases, probably, not so wholesome, as of those which have daily •cise in the open air, since the fat produced by confinement is often a species of disease. B b