MAKING CHEESE. ICUAI'. V. 1167 i 6918. When the curd is sufficiently ^zm, the usual practice is to cut it across-with a I 1 knife tlirough to the bottom, making the incisions an inch apart, and again crossways and i round the sides, slowly and gently in the same manner, for the purpose of causing the ■whey to rise through, that the curd may sink to the bottom with more ease. After a short • time, having taken some of the -whey out, the cutting is repeated until the curd is reduced • to very small pieces. This operation may require half or three-quarters of an hour. The cheese-tub is then covered with a cloth, and is allowed to remain for about a quarter or half an hour for the curd to subside : but, previously, some break the curd as small as possible by the hand. 6919. To separate the curd from the whey, part of the latter is taken off with a skimmer; tlie bottom of the tub is now set a little a-tilt, the curd is collected to the upper side of it, and a board is introduced of a semicircular form, and fitting loosely one-half of the tub's bottom. This board is placed on the curd, and a 60 lb. weight upon it to press out the whey, which, draining to the lower side of the tilted tub, is ladled out. This operation of placing the curd under the weighted board is repeated several times until the whole of the whey is drawn off, and the mass of curd is then turned upside down to undergo the same pressure. The board and weight being removed, the curd is then to be cut into pieces again, and pressed both by the weight and by hand as long as any whey appears to remain. Great attention is required in conducting this part of the business. If the whey is of a slightly greenish colour, it is a proof that the curd has been properly formed ; but if it be white, it is equally certain that the coagulation has been imperfect, and that the cheese will be of a poor flavour, and that much caseous substance has been lost in the whey. 6920. The next process is to transfer the curd to the cheese-vat. For this purpose the curd is divided into two or three portions according to its size, and one is put into a pan and broken extremely fine ; and some mix a handful of salt, more or less, with it: this portion is then put into the cheese-vat placed to receive it, on a cheese-ladder over the cheese- tub, a coarse cloth having been first placed over the vat: the other portions of curd are treated in the same manner, and added to the last: this breaking may occupy perhaps half an hour if the cheese is large. The curd in its broken state is now heaped up above the vat in a somewhat conical or roundish form ; and, to prevent it from crumbling down, two or three women turn the corners of the cheese-cloth over it, and gently press the curd together with their hands, until it adheres so much that a board can be placed over it, with a part of the cloth between it and the curd. The whole is then put under a 60 lb. weight or into a press : and at the same time, if the cheese is large, it is the prac- tice in Cheshire, but nowhere else, to stick skewers into the cone and into the middle of the curd through holes in the sides of the vat, to facilitate the escape of the whey when they are drawn out. These skewers are frequently shifted to fresh places; and this operation of breaking, pressing, and skewering is repeated if thought necessary, the oper- ation generally lasting about two or three hours. 6921. The newly-formed cheese is next taken out of the vat, and put into a vessel of warmi or hot whey for an hour to harden its skin. On taking it out of the whey, and when it j)as become cool, it is wiped with a clean, dry, fine cloth, and again put into the vat. As the upper surface of the cheese is still above the edge of the vat, this upper part is bound round with a cheese-fillet, or has a hoop put round it over the cloth that covers the whole of the cheese, to preserve its shape, and the cheese is again submitted to the press for twelve or fourteen hours, when it is well skewered as before : if the press stands near the wall, one half only can be skewered at a time ; but this occasions no inconvenience, as the skewers must be frequently shifted, there being numerous holes in the sides of the vat. After remaining in the press for half an hour, the cheese is taken out and turned in the vat with another cheese-cloth ; and in this manner it continues in the press for forty- eight hours, being turned several times, and the skewers having been lain aside for the last twelve hours. The process just described is for large cheeses ; if the cheese is small or thin it will not require so much pressing and skewering : but, in cheese-making, the perfect extraction of the whey is a very important part of the process, for, if any is left, it occasions rankness and speedy decay. 6922. The cheese-press is of various constructions, but should be so contrived that its force be proportioned to the size of the cheese. Its power may act as a screw, a lever, or a dead weight: the last is the most common as being the simplest, a, fig. 903., represents a cheese-press acting by a weight, consisting of a block of stone raised by a screw, and fixed between uprights that cause it to press level, which is essential to proper pressure. Instead of a single stone some have a box raised in the same way, but filled with loose stones, which has this advantage, that the weight may be varied at pleasure, b, fig. 903., is another press in which the weight is raised by means of a compound lever. Some use a heavy stone raised and lowered by a tackle. ^ 692.3. The next process is .lalliiig the cheese. For this purpose, in Gloucestershire and Cheshire, it is taken out of the press, and placed nearly mid-deep in the salting-tub for three days, its upper surface being covered all over with salt; or, instead of this, some