662 Book VIIL BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. vinegar may likewise be rendered wliite by mixing it with milk and agitating the mixture; the colouring matter of the wine will combine with part of the milk and will fall down as a sediment. SuBSECT. 2. — Raisin Vinegar. 3734. A superior kind of vinegar sometimes used in pickling is occasionally prepared in litis cou7itnj from raisins, and the manner of making it is evidently an imitation of the processes used on the Continent for producing wine vinegars. The cheapest kind of raisins are employed, and an equal quantity of coarse sugar is added to increase the quantity of the fermentable matter, as, in this case, the process of vinous fermentation is to begin. To every hundred pounds (if raisins, and as many of sugar, a liundred gallons of water are added, of the temperature of 65° or 70°. The mixture being well stirred, spontaneous fermentation commences in a few hours, the raisins containing a natural ferment. The fermentation continues three or four days, the tem- perature rising to about 80° ; when this has proceeded as far as it is judged necessary for the production of spirit, it is checked by racking off the liquor, which is put into casks having false bottoms pierced with holes, into which had been previously put the rape, consisting of the residuum of husks, stalks, &c. of raisins from a former process of the same kind, and which have been soured, in order to cause the acetous fermentation to begin. The casks are placed in a line, and each is filled entirely, and only half, alternately, with the wash, which is a kind of raisin wine, thiit has been brewed. Were the liquor to remain so, it would soon heat and ferment too rapidly so as to pass into the putrefactive stage ; therefore the fermentation must be checked in the full cask, by drawing some of the liquor out into that which is half full. Next day the process is reversed, by putting back the liquor that was taken out, and leaving the casks, now full, to be again half empty ; and so on each day, or oftener if necessary, in order to check the fermentation, precisely iis in the French method, which we have described, until the acetification is complete. The casks are phiced in an apartment heated to about 80°, by means of a tube that opens into the external air, passes through a furnace, and thus delivers the air within it in a heated state into tl)e iipartnient. The admission of heated air demands the exit of an equal quantity from the apartment, and thus a constant circulation of air Is kept up, which occasions a ventilation very useful in stopping the progress of putrefaction. When the vinegar is formed, it is clarified by means of isinglass, and put into well-closed casks. It is to be observed that genuine wine vinegar or raisin vinegar differs from that formed either from sugar, beer, apples, &c., in containing tartar, by which peculiarity it may be distinguished except where tartar has been added to other vinegar for the purpose of disguising it. SuBSECT. 3 Common Vinegar. 3735. Common vinegar is most usually prepared in this country from malt. From what we have already said here, and on the subject of brewing, it must be obvious that all that is necessary for the formation of vinegar is to ferment the wort from malt, and to suffer the vinous fermentation to pass on to the acetous stage, instead of checking it as in the brewing of beer. 3736. Malt vinegar is prepared in manufactories. The first operations are nearly the same with those of the brewer. A mash of ground malt and hot water is made, and, after infusion for an hour and a half, it is conveyed into a cooler a few inches deep, and thence, when sufficiently cooled, is transferred to the fermenting tun, where it is mixed with yeast, and kept in fermentation for four or five days. The liquor (which is a strong ale without hops) is then distributed into smaller barrels, set close together in a chamber, in ■which a moderate heat is maintained for about six weeks by a flue that goes all round, or by hot air, or by the sun, during which time the fermentation goes on equally and uni- formly, and passes from the vinous to the acetous fermentation. The sour liquor is then emptied into barrels, which, in the summer, are set in rows in a field in the open air, the bung-hole being only covered with a loose tile, that the air may have free admission ; in the winter they are kept in a room with a stove, to increase the acetification. It would require a very long time to complete this process, if no ferment was used; but for this purpose, they sometimes introduce iuto the barrels, upon a false bottom pierced with holes, a quantity of the refuse of raisins or other fruit left by the makers of raisin and other made wines. This, called i-apc, acts as an acetous ferment, and abridges the time that otherwise would be necessary, and prevents failure, to which the process would be liable. By this means the operation is finished in four or five months. These rape tuns are worked by pairs, in the same manner as was described in making vinegar from wine. One of the pairs is quite filled with the vinegar from the barrels, and the other only three- quarters full, so that the fermentation is excited more easily in the latter than in the former, and every day a portion of the vinegar is laded from the one to the other, till the whole is completely finished. As soon as the vinegar has acquired its greatest degree of sourness, the process is stopped ; otherwise, by a continuance of the fermentation, the next .stage, the putrefactive, would commence, and then the acidity will diminish, and ultimately disappear. For this purpose, as soon as the vinegar has acquired the requisite degree of strength, as indicated by its taste, it is racked ofif its lees iuto other casks, in the same manner as in the case of ale or wine. The vinegar in this state, however, though sufficiently strong, is yet thick and foul, and requires to be clarified before it is fit for use, or for keeping. To render it clear and transparent, isinglass is dissolved in a small quantity of the vinegar, and the solution is put to that in the casks. After this the feculencies will subside, and, as soon as it is quite