CuAP. XVI. GLASS. 309 ■wheels of stone, then with iron wheels covered with sharp sand or emery; it is then polished in the same manner by putty, or oxide of tin. To prevent too much heat beinn- excited by the friction, a sraaU stream of water is kept constantly running on the glass" In large manufactories the wheels are urged by a steam engine. 1.165. Glass may be ground by hand on any coarse-grained sandstone, or with sand, or with emery and water. ... , . , .. , . 1366. Panes, or flat pieces of glass, may be divided, when a glazier s diamond is not at hand, by making a notch with a file and carrying a piece of hot charcoal in the line in which it is wished the fracture should proceed. The charcoal must be kept alive with the breath. A red hot iron will also do. 13G7. The art of casting in glass has lately arrived at such perfection that many articles, such as small plates, salt-cellars, &c., now almost rival, at first sight, those that are cut; and glass casting has one advantage over glass cutting, that certain ornaments can be cast that could not be cut with the wheel: but no casting has yet quite equalled the sharpness and beauty of cut glass, and, indeed, cannot bear close comparison with it. Sect. VII. COLOURED GLASS AND ENAMEL. 1368. Coloured glass is perhaps nearly as ancient as the material itself. Egyptian mummies are found decorated with coloured glass beads, which must be 3000 years old. Several examples of coloui-ed glass have been found among the ruins of antique buildings, which prove the skill of the ancients in this art. The oldest specimens of coloured glass in churches resemble a kind of mosaic, and were composed of panes of glass that had been coloured throughout in making, joined together by lead. 1369. But the modern method of painting on glass, or, as it is called, staining glass, consists in the application of colours to the surface of uncoloured glass, and then exposing them to heat in a fiiniace, by which the colours strike into the glass and are permanently fixed. The colours are the same as those used for enamel, and are united with some substances which serve as flux. Only three colours, orange, red, and yellow, can be floated on as stains; all the others are hatched on by the strokes of a brush. Oil of spike is generally used to work with the colours. So far from the art of painting of glass being lost, as some have stated, it is now practised in greater perfection than ever, with the exception of a fine scarlet, seen in old churches, which it is said cannot now be produced of equal richness. Pictures in stained glass are executed with a vigorous and natural effect of light and shadow entirely unknown to our ancestors. Lately, a .great deal of coloured glass of the richest hues, in a great variety of utensils for the table and the boudoir, has appeared in the London shops. These are chiefly of Bohemian manufactm-e, although we are beginning to imitate them. Some of these vessels are of elegant forms, and often gUt with delicate ornaments. In some of them, coloured glass ornaments are laid on vessels of colourless glass. 1370. Opaline glass is of a semi-transparent opaline hue, used for various ornamental articles, chiefly for the boudoir. The effect is produced by adding to the best glass a small quantity of oxide of tin, or, what is better, phosphate of lime, or well burnt bone ash. 1371. Glass ornaments of two colours are now made in the following manner. Sufficient glass of one colour is collected on the working table for blowing, and is then dipped into a pot of another coloured glass. This mass is then blown and moulded into a vessel of the required shape, and the exterior coating being cut away in parts by the glass cutter, the inner glass is exposed to view. In this, therefore, the projecting parts will be of one colour, and the cut parts of another, the effect of which is often extremely elegant. 1372. An ornamental glass resembling medallions, crests, or other ornaments let info transparent glass, is made thus. The ornament to be let in is moulded in a peculiar kind of clay, and is introduced by the glass maker into the glass while soft, having then the appearance of unburnished silver. Glass door handles, decanters, girondoles, and other articles made of flint glass are thus ornamented with arms, crests, medallions, &c. 1373. Enamel is a glass rendered opaque by having an admixture of oxides of metals with a flux. For the white enamel of the dial plates of clocks and watches oxides of tin and lead are employed; and coloured enamels are used for making a number of ornamental articles. In painting in enamel the colours are formed of this basis and mixtures of the oxides of various metals, as iron, copper, manganese, &c. "When these are finely levigated and laid upon an enamel ground, heat is api)licd sufficient to flux them, and thus they sink into the ground, and become permanently fixed. This kind of painting is highly esteemed on account of its perfect durability. The art of enamelling is of great antiquity, and probably coeval with that of making glass. That it was practised by the Egyptians is evident from specimens found with their mummies. From them it passed to the Greeks X 3