ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 20 Hook I. the most useful books, maps, globes, and the various apparatus required in education ; and here might be kept the little cabinet of natural history, philosophical apparatus, &c. It can scarcely be necessary to observe that the warming and ventilation of it should he perfect. A small cheiiiical Laboratory for experiments might be attached, or be easily accessible, which should be perfectly fire-proof ; and a little work shop -will likewise be an addition that may afford both amusement and instruction. 62. Museum. This is not a usual addition to a mansion, yet well deserves to be one. It need not be large to contain a very entertaining and instructive collection of such objects of natural history as must interest the occupants, or would be useful to the junior part of the family. The various objects placed in it should be arranged and displayed with the greatest possible neatness and taste, yet without gaudy ornaments; and there should be connected witli it a place for unpacking and for keeping unarranged specimens, not to encumber the museum itself. The light should be good, and convenient cabinets and tables provided. 63. Observatory. Those who are fond of astronomy may have a room at the top of the house, perhaps in a tower, which forms a picturesque part of a villa in the Italian style. In this may be kept a good telescope, and other instruments, which may be a source of frequent amusement: such a room, if not used for astronomical purposes, may be found agreeable and convenient for viewing the surrounding country, or for studying the clouds, &c. 64. Conservatory. This is a building constructed for the growth and preservation of trees, shrubs, and plants, chiefly exotic, and is often attached to the mansion, and so placed, that some of the principal apartments communicate immediately with it. It is a modem improvement, and it is an agreeable luxury to enter from a library or breakfast room suddenly into the midst of odoriferous plants. A conservatory should, if possible, be so large as to afford w,alks in it, which ought to be paved, the plants growing either in the earth, or in pots sunk to a level with the surface. It is warmed by flues, or by steam or hot water; the sides and roof should be of glass, and the latter should be strong enough to resist hail. When the roof is opaque, the plants do not flourish. The style of architecture should be extremely light, without large piers which obstruct the sun's raj-s. Some splendid conservatories have been executed of late, for which see " Loudon's Encyclo- pedia of Gardening." 6.'). Domestic Offices. In arranging the plan of a house, the situation and distribution of the offices demand much consideration ; yet they are frequently the most defective part of the mansion. The present fashion of placing many of them in a sunk story, though economical with regard to expense and space, is often injurious to health and cleanliness. In towns, this is in a gi'eat measure unavoidable, according to present custom, but in the country a superior arrangement is generally practicable. To the architect must be left the distribution of the several places according to the plan of the rest of the house, and the particular locality; and we can do little more at present than enumerate the various apartments that are included under this head, with such few remarks as may appear the most essential ; observing, that a proper arrangement of the several ofiices cannot be made, nor their fittings-up completed, in the best manner, except by those who will take the trouble of making themselves intimately acquainted with the business to be done there. 66. The various offices usually connected immediately with the house itself are, the kitchen ; scullery ; pantry ; the several larders, as the wet, dry, fish, game, and vegetable larders; salting and smoking rooms. There are also the servants' hall; the steward's room; butler's room ; plate closet; men's washing and dressing room; knife and shoe cleaning place. Then, the housekeeper's room ; store room ; still room ; china closet; maid servants' sitting room ; lastly, the various cellars for wine and beer; ice room ; coal cellars. Eoi-ming a group by themselves, and detached from the house, may be the brew- house, bakehouse, washhouse, and laundry. The dairy, dairy scullery, and cow-house, may be situated in another part. Also, composing a separate group, may be the coach-house, harness and saddle-room, stables, dog-kennels, stable yard, and lodging-houses for the servants employed in them. In the approach to a villa or country mansion, the offices should as much as possible be kept out of sight. The principal requisites of a good kitchen are stated in a separate part of this work, where the processes of cookery are described. A good chimney fireplace should never be omitted ; for whatever improvements are made in tlie apparatus for cooking, yet it is not prudent to dispen.se with the open fire, which may or may not be used continually. Good ventilation to the kitchen should he provided for in building ; for if this be neglected, it will perhaps be impossible to effect it afterwards. If the ventilation be sufficient, it will not only keep the kitchen cool, hut prevent the smell of the cooking operations from spreading over the house. The place for coal and other fuel to supply the kitchen and offices adjoining, should be very near ; and it will be convenient, and save much labour, if the coals can be passed from it into the kitchen by an opening in the wall. If the