Book XXIV, 1130 STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. In a late number of the "Journal of the Agricultural Society," a method is described of correcting the bad effects of the arnmoniacal vapours mentioned above as so injurious. If a mixture of powdered g3'psura wetted and sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol), be strewed on the floor of the stables, the acid -will neutralise the ammonia, and, to use the words of the grooms, " the stables will be sweetened." It has been supposed that the gypsum produced part of this effect, but it does not appear that any portion of the ammonia is absorbed by it, and that it merely acts as a convenient surface for the acid; for a mixture of sawdust and sulphuric acid answers the same purpose. One part of sawdust will ahsorb three parts of the acid solution, which should consist of one part by measure of acid and fifteen of water. Instead of strewing the mixture on the floor, where it will get mixed with the straw, and injure the horses' feet, it is better to place it in trays distributed in various parts of the floor. The acid should not remain unchanged longer than three or four days, when it will be found neutralised. 6714. The temperature of the stable is a circumstance that requires particularly to be attended to. Grooms, in general, have a predilection for warm stables. Well-bred horses require a warm and genial temperature in the stables, supposing of course the air to be pure, to maintain that beautiful appearance of a glossy coat so indicative of con- dition, and so essential to the beauty of the animal. But although it has this efiect, a very glossy coat in winter is not desirable ; nature has a tendency to proportion the degree of fineness of the coat to the season, making it a little rougher in winter than in summer. The glossiness of the coat should be more the result of careful grooming than of the warmth of the stable. The bad effect of hot stables is evident from the diseases frequently occasioned by taking horses out into the open air, particularly in cold weather, when the temperature is 30° or 40° below that of the stable. This is often the cause of rheuma- tism, catarrh, or inflammation of the lungs, when horses are kept standing long in the cold, notwithstanding that exercise keeps them warm for a time. It is also generally known that a sudden return to hot stables is nearly as dangerous as the change from a heated atmosphere to a cold and biting air. It is true that the horse is an animal now in a highly-artificial state, requiring to be treated with a degree of care beyond that of any other domesticated quadruped; but it is only the race-horse, and those with much of their blood, and particularly while in training, that require an extraordinary degree of warmth, since they belong to a race that came originally from a warm country ; neither ought they to be kept too warm after they have been so long accustomed to our climate. No horse in the stable should sweat under his clothing; by so doing he is rendered highly sensible to external impressions from alteration of temperature, producing a morbid sensibility of skin, and consequently a greater susceptibility to many diseases; it also proves a relaxent. The heat of a well-regulated stable in summer should not vary from between 60° and 65° ; nor in winter much from 50°. Some have even found the advantage of ac- customing horses to a cooler atmosphere by keeping them much in the open air. It is ■essential, as we have already stated, that grooms should learn to distinguish between merely heated and foul air ; at present they confound these imder the name of close. But, as we have stated, air may be warm without being in the least unwholesome, and may be cold and yet very foul; the wholesomeness for respiration not depending upon the tem- perature, but upon the gases which compose it and the noxious vapours with which it may be contaminated. The temperature should be ascertained by a thermometer kept in the stable. As an argument against the practice of keeping stables too warm, it is stated, that in Berwickshire it is not uncommon to keep horses all winter in hammels or small sheds in open straw yards, where they are exposed to the freest circulation of air, and that they have no grease, swelled legs, coughs, or inflammations, or other diseases probably brought on by the use of hot stables. Horses, however, to be treated in this manner, should be brought up to it, for it would not be safe to try the experiment on a horse long accus- tomed to a warm stable. 6715. The light of stables has been much neglected. Many have not even a glazed window, as it has been supposed that horses had no use for light, and even that they thrive best in the dark; but this is now known to be an error; besides, a certiiin degree of light is necessary to enable the owner to see whether the stable is kept properly clean and in order. Some stable-keepers prefer darkness to conceal their want of cleanliness, or to make the horse look lively when brought into the light; but this is injurious to his eyes. However, too nuich light prevents his sleeping. 6716. Windows should be placed high up in the stable, that the light may not come mto the horses' eyes ; and the glass should be in imitation of ground glass, to keep out the direct rays of the sun. Wiien opened in summer, a net should be kept across the openmg, as that keeps out the flics so annoying to horses. 6717. Whitewashing or limc-whiting the walls and ceiling of the stable is very proper on account of cleanliness; but, except the stable is rather dark, it is best not to make the