Book \ 286 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. in every place. Some material of superior manufacture might, perhaps, obviate this difficulty. 1263. Sedan chairs, once so common, are now scarcely known except as a conveyance for invalids. They were first introduced into England in the reign of James I., when they were used by the Duke of Buckingham to the great indignation of the people. Towards the end of the reign of George III. the increase of carriages occasioned them to be gradually laid aside. CHAP. XIV. FURNITURE OF THE NURSERY. 1264. The furniture of the nursery ought to be very simple, and should consist of no more things than are absolutely necessary. We refer the reader to Book XXII. " On the Nursery," and propose at present to describe such things as can be illustrated by figures. 1265. The bassinet, fig. 481., is usually the first thing the infant is put into. It is, in fact, a basket, with a hood which may fall backward if required. It has a hair mattress, stuffed very soft, and a small soft pillow; it is lined within, is very convenient for carry- ingaboutwithout wakening the child, and is much warmer than a large cradle or bed. It is generally made of wicker, about 2^ feet or 3 feet long, 18 inches wide, and 15 deep, and is usually or- namented with muslin, ribands, &c. 1266. Cradles have been used from time immemorial, and the rocking has been thoughi necessary to cause children to sleep : but rocking and swinging are now generally con demned by medical men. Rocking is liked by nurses, who find it convenient in sending infants to sleep when they ought, perhaps, to be carrying them about in the open air, until at last, from habit, they will scarcely sleep without it. When children are in good health, they requii'e no rocking ; nevertheless, in certain cases, it appears to be useful in allaying irritation, particularly in a state of disease. They are usually made of basket- work,/fi/. 482., but also of other materials. In the swinging cot, fig. 483., the motion is more gentle than in the cradle. i Fig. 485. Fig. m. 12C7. Cribs, fig. 484., are more generally used at present. These are small bedsteads supported on feet of such length that the height of the crib may be the same as that of the mother's bed, close to which it is placed in the night; one side is made to slide out in a groove in the up- rights. The sides are frecjucntly filled in with cane work, or small balustrades ; but care should be taken to have the cribs also lined inside, for it has sometimes happened that the child's fingers have been hurt by getting them in the openings, 'i'hey are jnit on castors, and may be made to take to pieces, and put up very easily for travelling.