POULTRY. 1173 Chap. VI. are convenient pans made in such forms that the chickens may drink without getting into the water, which often, by wetting their feet and feathers, numbs and injures them. A basin full of water whelmed in the midst of a pan of water will answer the end. Most of the disorders of chickens arise from their getting cold and wet. There is no neces- sity for cooping the brood more than a few days, but they may be suffered to go out into some small inclosed place, for some tune before they are trusted in the yard. In about fifteen or twenty days the hen may conduct them there, and it is highly interesting to see what pride and satisfaction she appears to feel in her young brood, and what solicitude she shows for them. Artificial means may be employed to induce hens to sit, when they show no natural disposition : and thus a brood of chickens may be pro- duced at any time of the year. These means depend chiefly upon keeping her on the eggs in a nest or hatching box in a dark, warm place, confining her there by tying her with a string or some gentle means, and giving her a little stimulating food, such as toast steeped in ale. C945. It is well known that chickens can be hatched by artificial heat without a hen. This is practised to a great extent in Egypt, and the method has been imitated on a smaller scale soccessfully in various parts of Europe ; lately by steam, as at an exhibition in London. Although sufficient has been done to prove the perfect practicability of the process, yet it does not appear that in tliis climate, at least, it could be carried into effect with profit ^ nor is it, of course, likely to become general, though an extremely interesting experiment. We have already stated the method adopted by Bonneraain in France, which was nearly the same as that em- ployed here lately, only that pipes of hot water were employed by him instead of steam, to warm the little chamber in which the eggs were placed. 6946. The person whose business it is to look after the poultry should have been accus- tomed to live in the country, and should be regular in feeding, keeping them clean, and giving them every other attention ; they should Be of a mild disposition, should study the habits of the various fowls, and strive to please them, maintain peace among them, as they soon learn to know those who treat them well. The fowls should be carefully watched as to their number, and whether they are gaining or losing condition, what kind of food they relish most, and what agrees best with them. They should be turned out in the morning, according to the weather, and shut up iu the evening, at regular times. 6947. The good health of fowls may be known by the fresh and florid colour of the comb, and the brightness and dryness of the eyes, the nostrils being free from any discharge, and the gloss of the plumage. The indication of old age are paleness of the combs and gills, dullness of colour, and a sort of stiffness in the feathers, length and size of talons, and the scales upon the legs becoming large and prominent. 6948. Fotels are liable to several diseases, as the pip, roup, fever, rheumatic and inflammatory diseases, besides various others. These have hitherto been little studied, perhaps from the small value of fowls, which offers little inducement to take much pains in their case. It is necessary that those who have the care of them should be acquainted with the most popular remedies, bnt our limits will not allow us to go into the subject, for which no written directions would avail without experience. Some valuable observations are contained in Mr. Dickson's work " On Poultry." 6949. With respect to the supply of the market with poultry, it is remarked that " in most of our farm-houses and cottages in England, the poultry are very indifferently accommo- dated with shelter and food, and large farmers breed only for their own use. On the Continent such quantities are reared, that they are very nearly as cheap as butchers' meat, so that the tables of the Londoners are in a great measure supplied from France." Sect. II. TURKEYS. 6950. Turkeys are more delicate and dLSiciilt to rear than common poultry, and pre- serve something of the wild habits of the original bird in a disposition to wander from home. They have a dislike to be shut up in close-places, and the roosting bars in houses appropriated to them should be placed as high as convenient from the groimd, being made also much thicker than those of fowls. 6951. Their food, in a domesticated state, is the same as that of common poultry, and they consume a great deal; if left at liberty at a farm-house, they often destroy much of the corn, trampling more under their feet than they eat ; they require, therefore, to be kept in some inclosure. 6952. Turkeys lay in March ; some every day, others every other day. The eggs are fifteen or twenty in number, of a dull cream colour, with reddish speckles. The time of laying is indicated by the vivacity, haughty strut, and peculiar note of the hen, which requires them to be watched, for they are very apt to steal away from home, and lay in some secret place ; when this is discovered, the eggs must be brought back, and they must be made to lay in the proper place. To prevent their laying from home, they should be fed by hand in the morning before they go out, and those that are going to lay should be kept back. One turkey cock is sufficient for several hens ; where there are more than one, they generally ti^\\t. 6953. The hens heijin to sil. in April, and thcv then cluck like a common fowl. A nost 4 V 3