HOUSEHOLD CLEANING. .-•Jhap. II. 349 ijartlcles of sand. It is by some pei-sons applied in its dry state, and rubbed on with the ,'eather. Others mix it with water, and lay it wet on the plate, and do not rub it off till it s5 dry. Botten stone, mixed with a little Florence oil, is sometimes employed for rubbing away ;hhe scratches which plate may accidentally have received ; but this must be used with Mution. SuBSECT. 3.— Cleaning Plated Wares and British Plate. 1670. Plated wares, and what is called British plate, nickel silver, Sfc. (see " Alloys of ilJetals," in Chap. V. Book V.). — As plated goods consist of inferior metals coated with ililver, this coating is easily rubbed off; and hence, in cleaning plated articles, the greatest aare is requisite not to wear off the silver coating. All violent rubbing should be vvoided, together with the use, in cleaning it, of any ingredient which would wear the il Iver. When tarnished, plated goods may be best cleaned with fine washed whiting mixed li'ith sweet oil. Warm soap and water also may be safely used. 1671. Of plated candlesticks, snuffer dishes, salvers, Sfc, the edges and moiddings are now rfequently formed of silver alone. This improvement has occasioned plated articles to be iiiuch more durable, as it was at the edges that the plating was first destroyed. 1672. Tlie sulphur contained in the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, which exists some- nmes in small quantity in the atmospheric air, is constantly acting upon silver, and rroduces a tarnish. On this account it is very desirable to keep all such articles not in aaily use covered with wash-leather, or with any soft material, to keep them as much i i possible from the air. 11673. Amongst the careless practices to be condemned is that of scraping ofT, witli a sliarp knife, wax or Itow adliering to plate. If in tliis practice tlie surface be scratched, the scratches cannot be removed, i-cept by rubbing off the silver around until it is levelled to the indentations : hence the injury to phited lods especially, in which the silver is merely a thin surface. Another careless mode, and one equally ■'Structive to tiie articles, is that of exposing the candlesticks to the excessive heat of a fire in order to melt • e adhesive wax or tallow. The hollow pillars and pediments of most candlesticks are filled with a compo- r :ion which gives them weight and steadiness. This composition, with the soldering which unites togettier e different parts of candlesticks, is melted at the same time that the wax or tallow is dissolved by the fire, i.lid thus the united parts are weakened, if not entirely separated. It is a safer plan to immerse in warm ititer the sockets and nozzles of candlesticks, and to let them lie until the substances become softened by this ;ght degree of warmth, when they may be easily removed without injuring the surface of the candlesticks, ilthis moderate warmth be not sufficient to clear away the wax, a little spirits of wine rubbed on it will loosen land allow of its being entirely removed. It must be remembered, that very hot water will be as prejudicial rcandlesticks as a hot fire. It is requisite that the water should not in temperature exceed that which the and can endure if held in it for a minute or more. Alter the wax or tallow is entirely cleared away, the iMidlestlcks must be wiped with a duster very dry, and afterwards polished with the leather and fine liiiting. 19674. For the cleaning of candlesticks two leathers and asoft brush are requisite, as well as for the cleaning' tithe plate used at table. A small skin should be kept for rubbing the articles with the whiting, a larger (B for polishing them afterwards, and the brush for removing the powder from the mouldings, &c. SuBSECT. 4.—Papier-Machee and Japanned Wares. 11675. Tea-boards, either of papier machee or o? japanned iron, should never be washed r th hot water, because the heat of boiling water is sufficient to crack the varnish on the rrface, upon which the blackened coating of either the papier or iron will begin to peel When any liquid dries upon tea-trays or waiters which has in it something of a gluti- ms nature, water must be employed to wash it off, but whenever simple rubbing with a :'::"t linen rubber removes any spots on japanned wares, water should not be used. Tea- lards are easily cleansed by the use of a few tea leaves, when emptied out of the tea-pot; iitea-boards of japan or papier machee appear streaky, as if from grease, a little flour or liiiting sprinkled over them, and rubbed off with a soft linen duster, will clean them, iiie fine polish to these wares is in their manufacture given by the use of olive oil, and ■ friction of the hand alone ; hence any scratches on the surface, so slight as not to (rate through the coating, may be removed by a similar application and means. Japanned tea-urns should, after use, have any warm water remaining in them poured out before it nld. The inside should then be wiped perfectly dry with a linen cloth, and the outside be rubbed with her kept for the purpose. If any spots caused by the water are rubbed while the urn remains warm I use, Ihey will lie soon obliterated then ; but, if left till the urn be cold, it will boa more difficult matter; y must in such case be removed by the use of the urn powder, which is to be purchased cither at oil shops 'it the shops in which japanned wares are sold. '1 cleaning jiipanned candlesticks the same caution must be observed as with other japanned wares h.at of not employing groat heat, either of the fire or of water, in removing from their surface any ■stance which has adhered to them : with care, those articles may last very long ; with carelessness, they injured immedi.itely. When the coating on their surface Is chipped or cracked, they cannot bo very long •iccable. Every day's tise and cleaning requisite thereon increases the peeling off ol the injured surface. Sect. IV. CLEANSING KITCHEN UTENSILS OF METAL, ETC. i'677. In country places, where brick ovens used for baking bread are usually heated hh wood fuel, the wnod-a.ihes may be procured, and answer the end of removing the