560 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. out on this floor about four inches in thicknuss that it may dry equally ; and beneath there IS a large fire of charcoal or coke, the heated air from which ascends through the holes in the floor, passes up through the malt, and makes its way out through tlie roof carrying the moisture along with it. The heat should be very gentle at first, not higher than 90<^ uud should be raised very gradually till it reach 140° Dr. Thomson informs us that he has seen malt dried at a temperature of 170° with- out becoming brown. The great secret in drying malt properly appears to consist in keeping tlie heat very low at first, and only raising it vmj (jmdually as the moisture is dissipated. It would seem that the less heat that is employed the better, so that the ger- mination is completely stopped, and the malt is thoroughly dried so as to keep -well. The grain, which at first was hard and cohesive, has become friable like a mere body of flour, and is so easily divisible that, when properly managed, a mark may be made with the kernel like a bit of chalk. At the high degrees of heat sometimes used, much of the sac- charine matter is decomposed and lost; and, in some places on the Continent, malt is at present dried only by the air without any fire. The degrees of heat employed give dif- ferent properties to malt, and hence we have various kinds which are used for dififerent purposes. Pale malt is dried with the lowest heat, and its colour is not changed; it contains the greatest quantity of saccharine matter, and aflfords the strongest liquor; it is always used for ale, aud now partly also for porter. Amber malt is dried with a higher degree of heat, by which it is a little scorched; and it is less sweLCt, because some of the sugar has been a little altered. Bruicn mall is still higher dried, and the scorching has gone so far that scarcely any taste of sugar is left. It is little used except for porter. A malt of a deep brown colour, almost black, called patent malt, is prepared by roasting it in an iron cylinder in the same manner as coffee ; the taste is very bitter, and its only use is to give colour to porter, for it is burnt so much as to be incapable of fermentation. The best fuel for kiln-drying is good coke or charcoal. Where it can be had, anthra- cite or nou-bitumiuous coal is also used, such as the Kilkenny aud Swansea coal or culm : the fuel employed ought to give no smoke. Turf is used in some parts of Ireland, and this is best when prepared as coke. When malt is sufficiently dried, it is suffered to cool slowly, and the rootlets are re- moved by screening; it is then spread out again to mellow, that is, to lose its crispness, and become soft and mealy, before it is ground in the mill for the brewer. VARIOUS ADDITIONAL OBSERVATIONS ON MALTING AND MALT. 3156. So much of the knowledge and success in brewing depends upon the malt, that we shall enter into some farther details respecting the natm'c and properties of that sub- stance. 3157. We are indebted for some of the following observations to Arthur Aikin, Esq., whose extensive knowledge of chemistry as applied to the arts renders his opinion highly deserving of attention. " In the conversion of barley into malt, a small quantity of car- bonic acid is given off, and probably part of the starch is changed so as to become more soluble in warm water ; the taste of malt is also sensibly sweeter than that of barley meal; and hence we may conclude that a portion of the starch is converted into sugar. A re- markable change also takes place in the texture or cohesion of the particles of the starch : in the raw grain they are compacted together so as not easily to be broken down by the teeth, whereas grains of malt, when properly prepared, may be crushed with the greatest ease. The starch of wheat is soluble in water at the temperature of about 170° ; that of barley appears to be soluble at perhaps a somewhat lower temperature. Now, starch, when once dissolved in water, cannot be obtained afterwards by mere evaporation iu any other state than a hard, tough mass of difficult solubility, considerably resembling gam tragacanth. Hence it is peculiarly requisite, in drying malt, to apply at first a very gentle heat, for if, by any accidental forcing of the fire, or negligence in turning the grain, any portion gets heated to the temperature of 170° or 180°, the water and the starch im- mediately combine together, and no subsequent care in drying can prevent the grains so affected from becoming hard and perfectly useless to the brewer. Such grains, as well as those of raw barley, will sink in water, whereas those of well-prepared malt will float; hence our way of judging of the goodness of malt is to throw a little into water, and ascer- tain how many grains float and how many sink. " If pale well dried malt be exposed to a gradually increasing temperature, it first becomes slightly yellowish brown, or pale amber-coloured ; with an increase of tempera- ture the colour increases, and, by proper care, it is very possible to bring the grain.<: to a very dark coffee colour without charring them in the least degree. In proportion as starch is charred, that is, converted into charcoal, it becomes insoluble iu water, cither hot or cold; but in proportion as it is exposed to an increasing temperature, provided such