CALICO-PRINTING. 1011 Chap. XII. evident that an art analogous to calico-printing was well known to the ancients, although less perfect than it has become since by the application of modern chemistry. 5965. Calico-printing by means of blocks has long been practised in Asia Minor, Turkey, and all over the east. It is said to have commenced in London in 1676, and was much encouraged and improved in consequence of the government having prohibited, in 1700, the importation of the cheap and beautiful prints of India, Persia, and China, with the view of protecting the woollen and silk manufactures. In order to procure an imita- tation of the Indian chintzes, plain calico was brought over, and printed in England. Parliament then passed a law in 1701, prohibiting the wear of any printed or dyed calicoes ; this confined the printers to the printing of linen, and put a stop to calico-printing for ten years. Afterwards the printing of cloths made of cotton and linen together was permitted, on paying a duty of sixpence a yard; and subsequently these prohibitions were entirely removed. Calico -printing has since been moved from the vicinity of London to Lancashire, where the greatest improvements have been made. 5966. As the art of calico-printing depends in a great measure upon that of dyeing, we must refer the reader to our chapter on that subject; but we shall at present say a few words that may assist in connecting ^ese sister arts. We stated that certain substances will of themselves, when applied to cloth of any kind, produce a permanent colour or dye, such as will bear washing without being removed ; but these substances are few in number. The majority of dyeing materials require, to render them fixed, that the cloth shall first be imbued with some other material that has an afBnity both for the cloth and for the dye-stuff. This is called the mordant, which acts as a bond of union between the cloth and the dye. The first kind of colours is sometimes termed substantive colours, and the latter adjective. 5967. Calico-printing consists in impregnating those parts only of the cloth which are to receive the colour with a mordant, and then dyeing it as usual with some dye-stuff. The dye attaches itself firmly only to that part of the cloth which has received the mordant. The whole surface of the cotton is indeed more or less tinged, but by washing and bleaching it, all the unmordanted parts lose their colour, while those which have received the mordant retain it. Let us suppose that a piece of white cotton is to receive red stripes ; all the parts where the stripes are to appear are pencilled, or otherwise marked with a solution of acetate of alumina ; after that the cloth is dyed in the usual manner with madder. When taken out of the dyeing vessel it is all of a red colour; but by washing and bleaching the madder disappears, leaving every part of the cloth white, except where the stripes were impregnated with the acetate of alumina, which remains red. In the same manner may yellow stripes be given to cloth, by substituting quercitron bark, weld, &c. for madder. 5968. A few examples of the manner in which various colours are given to calicoes may be mentioned. 1. One of the most common colours on cotton prints is a kind of nankeen yellow, of various shades, down to a deep yellowish brown, or drab: to produce it, the pattern is printed with acetate of iron, the cloth is then plimged into the potash ley. 2. For yellow, the block is covered with acetate of alumina, and the cloth dyed with quercitron bark. 3. Red is communicated by the same mordant, the dye being madder. 4. LUac brown and blackish brown have a mordant of acetate of iron, and a dye of madder. 5. Dove-colour and drab are done with acetate of iron and iquereitron bark. When several • colours are to appear in the same print, methods like the following are used. If cloth is ' dyed with (juercitron bark, and then printed with several blocks, that which has acetate I of alumina will give a yellow, the block which has acetate of iron will give olive or drab, : and that which has a mixture of these two mordants will give olive green. If the cloth be dyed with madder, the block with acetate of alumina will give red; acetate of iron will give brown or black, and the mixture of these will give purple. Indigo, as in dyeing, is the only colour that can be applied at present, so as to be permanent without a mordant. 5969. Tlte mordants are applied to the cloth either by a pencil, or more frequently by means of wooden blocks, on which the pattern is cut in such a manner as to project in relief. When these blocks are applied, care must be taken that no part of the mordant with which they are covered spread to that part of the cloth which is to be left white, other- wise all the distinctness and elegance of the print will be destroyed. It is necessary, therefore, that the mordants should be of such a degree of consistence that they will not spread to those parts of the cloth beyond the intended pattern on the surface of the block ; this is effected by thickening them with starch or gum before they are put upon ■ the block. It is usual to mix some colouring matter with the mordant, in order to render ■ the impression visible ; but it must be some substance that may be removed by the same process as the mordant itself. Sometimes two mordants are mixed together, and much ' of the science and skill of the calico-printer depends upon his knowledge of the properties • of the various mordants and their action upon colouring matters, so as to render the latter fixed and beautiful. 5970. Few dye-stuffs are used by calico-printers, and they are chiefly indigo, madder, 3 T 2