COOKING FOR THE ECONOMIST AND INVALID. Book XVI. are weak and irritable. It will serve also for the food of young children ; and some persons habitually sick in a morning have found it useful as a breakfast. 5558. Veal tea is made in the same way, and in the same proportions of meat and water as beef tea. It is useful in the same cases as those in which beef tea is given. 5559. Chicken tea Cut into small pieces a chicken, skin it very carefully, as well as any fat which may be visible. Boil it for twenty minutes in a quart of water ; pour the broth away from the meat before it gets cold. This tea is generally given in cases of debility, after fevers, and at the commencement in an invalid of a state of convales- cence. 5560. Extract of meat. —When the pure juice of meat is to be given to invalids, it may be obtained by putting a little lean beef or mutton cut small into a glass bottle, corking it up and tying a bladder over the cork ; the bottle must be put Into hot water and boiled gently for an hour. On opening it, a small quantity of real gra\'j' ma}- be poured away from the meat. 5561. Balm and mint teas The young shoots of either of these aromatic plants make a pleasanter and more refreshing beverage for the fever patient than that made from the dried leaves. Boiling water must be poured on the leaves, and the teapot or vessel con- taining it must be covered over and set for an hour near a fire : during this process of infusion the aromatic properties of the leaves will be given to the water, making it a safe diluent in fever cases ; and mint tea, of the fresh leaves, is sometimes useful in allaying nausea and vomiting. 5562. Hyson tea. — A weak infusion of green tea without milk or sugar is a useful diluent in fevers, colds, and rheumatism. Sect. VL egg nourishment. 5563. Egg mulled in tea or coffee Beat the yolk of an egg very well in a tea or coffee- cup ; stir in it a little milk or cream ; then pour in it, stirring it all the time, the hot coffee or tea, sufficient to fill the cup. If the hot liquid is poured in too hastily, or without stirring it at the time, the egg will curdle, instead of uniting with the tea. Invalids are recommended to try this mixture for breakfast, as being light and nourishing, without being heating. Eggs may be mulled in hot water, or in hot wine, or in hot ale; the same precaution being taken in the mode of uniting it to any of tliese hot liquids, which has been recommended above. 5564. An egg draught for a convalescent Beat the yolk of a fresh laid egg, and mix with it a quarter of a pint of new milk previously warmed over the fire; add to this a spoonful of capillaire, one also of rose water, and a grate of nutmeg. Sect. VII. PANADAS. 5565. Meat panada. — Take the meat of a chicken previously cooked, or the inside of a sirloin of beef or of a loin of mutton, whichever is recommended by the medical at- tendant ; mince it small and pound it till it will pass through a sieve, when mixed with broth or hot water, which will be according to the state of the patient, more or less rich and nourishing: unless ordered, no other seasoning than a sprinkling of salt should be added. When the panada is prepared it should be put in an earthen vessel and placed in a cool situation. A little of it taken out as it is wanted should be warmed up in a little panakin. It must be stirred all the time it is on the fire, and served with delicate thm sippets of bread. . . , . , - 5566. Bread panada.—Grate a teacupful of bread and mix with it some beef or mutton gravy, beating the bread with a spoon till perfectly smooth. Then boil it till it thickens, stirring it all the time it is boiling. sir,? Another receipt for bread pannda. - Boil a glass of white wine and the same q"?""'y "i"'*'' o^iVuns 1 IHt c siiKar 'md lemon-i eel to it, nutmeg if approved of; bnt spices are rarely desirable for nvalids ^ rnV^.^. r n of brS'^^^^^^^ ; and when the wine and water boll pour in the crumbs; stir them together and iVnIl vVrv ouickly until the mixture thickens ; take it olT the Ore and pour it into a l)a8in. p„„„„,hnr Bread panfdL m^y be rtavoured with the juice of fruits, such as lemon and orange syrup. &c. Remember always tliat the ingredients must be boiled together, or they will not form Into a jelly. Sect. VIII. PtlDDlNGS FOn INVALIDS. 5568. Light flour pudding.—Take a spoonful of fine flour, boil a teacupful of milk and mix the flour very smoothly with it Let it stand till cold, occasionally stirrmg it, to