STABLES AND MANAGEMENT OF HORSES. Book XXIV. 1146 Pig. m of the flexor tendon ; h the homy or inseimihle frog ; I the sensible sole ; m the horny sole; n the sessavioid bone. The coffin bone is of a light spongy structure, and is filled with numerous holes for the pas- . sage of blood-vessels to the foot. The eminence in front receives the insertion of the tendon of the extensor muscle of the foot, whose upper attachment is to the humerus or arm bone, where it is fleshy, but as it passes it becomes ten- dinous, expanding over every joint. In the hinder limb this extensor and its two adjuncts arise from the tibia, and, in part, from the fe- mur. To the sides of the coffin bone are at- tached the lateral cartilages, and around its sur- faces are marks of the attachment of the laminated substance. The criist or wall of the hoof reaches from the termination of the hair to the ground. I ,„ It is deepest in front, called the toe, shallower at the sides, called the quarters, and of least extent behind, at the heel. It is placed flat on the ground, but ascends in front with dif- ferent degrees of obliquity in different horses, the most approved slope of slant being about 45°. In front it is rather more than halif an inch in thickness, and becomes gradu- ally thinner at the quarters and heel. As there is only half an inch hold for the nails of the shoe at the toe and less at the quarters, horses are sometimes wounded in shoeing by ignorant or careless blacksmiths. The horn of the wall is composed of numerous straight fibres held together by a gelatiuous cement. This crust in some horses is liable to be broken through brittleness, particularly in summer, and it is then proper to rub it with a mixture of oil of tar and common fish oil, to restore the pliancy. The horn, of which the hoof consists, is naturally kept moist by an oily secretion from the frog, otherwise it would soon crack and be deprived of its elastic power. The smaller pastern bone articu- lates with the coffin bone at its posterior part, and is connected by ligaments with the navicular bone. The upper portion is united to the shank bone in an oblique direction, which varies in different horses. The shocks in locomotion are broken by so many ligaments and tendons as unite these bones, and, in reality, render the foot stronger by their elasticity. Some other parts of the foot are best seen by turning up the sole of the foot, as in fig. 896. The wall of the hoof,/in the section, and a a in fig. 896., instead of continuing round in a circle on the under part next the ground, is suddenly inflected or bent inwards, forming what are called the bars b b, which meet at the point c at the toe of the frog. These bars, by their softness and elasticity, serve to prevent the pressure of the horse's weight from injuring the frog and parts immediately above, and therefore the practice of those smiths is wrong who cut them away, as is often the case, and which causes the frog, deprived of its guard, to contract. The inside of the crust or wall of the hoof is covered by numerous thin horny leaves extending all round it, and reaching from the coronary ring to the toe. They are about five hundred in number, broadest at their base, and terminating in the most delicate expansion of horn. They very much resemble the inner surface of a mushroom. In front they run in a direction from the coronet to the toe, and towards the quarters they are more slanting from behind forward. They cor- respond with similar cartilaginous and fleshy leaves on the surface of the coffin bone, called, from their construction, sensible lamina, and, the one being received within the other, they form a most elastic body, by which the whole weight of the horse is supported. The inside of the bars, like the inside of the crust, presents a continuance of these horny leaves. The insensible frog fills the space between the bars. It is a triangular or wedge- shaped portion of horn projecting from the sole almost on a level with the crust, and covering and defending a soft and elastic substance called the sensible frog. The insensible frog consists of two rounded or projecting surfaces, c c {fig. 896.,) with a fissure or cleft between tliem. The frog is firmly united to the sole, and, by its softness and elasticity, coming to the ground when the horse treads, prevents him from slipping. The rough and detached parts only should be cut off' in shoeing, so as to bring it just within the level of the shoe, but it should never be suffered to project without this level. In the unshod horse, as in the colt, it always touches the ground, but with our hard roads it would soon be worn away were it not for the defence of the shoe : it is quite essential however, that it should come into contact with the ground sometimes, as want of pressure