RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 887 CnAP. I. and salt; rub some salad oil over the skin with a brush or feather, and do not at first put it too near the fire, which would blister the skin. The crackle, as the roasted skin is called, should he crisp and brown : the oil will cause this crispness, and give the crackle a better colour than if dripping were used as a basting. Apple sauce is uniformly served with roasted pork. Roasted loin, neck, and sparerib are dressed as the last 5001. Roastedgriskin. — In a griskin there are several nice pieces, but also some that are hard and dry; therefore, instead of roasting it Tilte the spare rib, boil it up quickly in water sufficient to cover it. As soon as it boils take it out. dry it carefully, rub butter over it, fiour it well, and put it into a Dutch oven before a brisk fire ; a few minutes will brown it, when serve it with apple-sauce, like other roasted pork. fM\'l. Rolled pork Bone a neck of pork ; have in readiness a forcemeat of chopped sage, bread-crumbs, allspice, salt, and pepper ; put this forcemeat within the meat, and roll it up lightly. Roast it gently, putting it at first some distance from the fire ; froth it with butter and flour a few minutes before it is served. 5003! Purk chops. — Take some chops from the loin or neck of pork ; after peppering broil them, turning them frequently. WTien nearly done, throw a little salt on them, and rub on some butter. If eaten in perfection, it must be immediately on their being taken from the gridiron. 5004. Broiled blade-bone. — This is taken from a bacon pig : it is generally broiled, as above described, but is seasoned with a tea-spoonful of made mustard, as well as with pepper and salt. 5005. To roast a porker's head. — Choose a fine head, clean it well, and stuff it with sage and bread ; tie it up tight, roast it like a young sucking pig, and serve it with the same kind of sauce. 50S6. To cook a surhing pig Let the pig be, if possible, fresh killed; after the first day it loses every hour it is kept some of the firmness and flavour of the meat. Baked sucking pig is better than roasted, because every part is then equally done ; but if it be inconvenient to bake it, then it will be requisite, while roasting it, to shelter for a time the middle part from the fire. A pig-iron hung before the middle of the bars, and the fire kept fiercest at the sides, will be the best protection ; or if a pig-iron be not at hand, a common fiat iron may be used as a substitute. For sinjjing. take five ounces of grated stale bread, two ounces of powdered sage, and a large onion chopped fine ; season these with pepper and salt, and mix them together with an egg. .\fter filling the inside with this stufiing, sew it up, and lay it before a clear brisk fire ; baste it with salatl oil. Remove the pig-iron from the centre when about half done. According to the size and age, a sucking pig requires to be roasted an hour and a quarter or an hour and a half. Before taking it from the fire, cut off the hejd, and divide it into two parts ; cut also the body down the middle into two parts ; chop the brains and some boiled sage-leaves finely ; mix them with either veal or beef gravy. Lay the two sides of the pig back to back on the dish, and garnish the sides and ends of the dish witli the split head and the two ears. Serve the gravy in a tureen. 5007. Fork sausages. — Sausages are made from a bacon pig. In making sausage meat, the art consists in chopping it finely, and in flavouring it agreeably with a mixture of crumbled sage leaves, pepper, and salt. If the meat so chopped be not put into the skins taken from the pigs, it may be potted down in a jar and covered. When any part is to be used, it must be rolled up in balls and fried in butter. Pork sausages are usually served with roast fowl or turkey; if alone, they are sent up on a toast, on mashed potatoes, or on stewed red cabbage. 5no8. Oxford sausages Chop small a pound of lean pork, with an equal quantity of veal, and three quarters of a pound of beef suet. Steep in water a penny roll, and, with sage, pepper, and salt, mix it with the mince ; roll it in b.alls and fry them of a light brown, or inclose some of it in a light paste in the form of pufis, which must be baked. 5009. Chawt, or pig's cheek -Cut off the snout, clean the head, and divide it; take out eyes and brains, and sprinkle the head with salt: let it drain for twenty-four hours. Mix to half a pound of salt half an ounce of saltpetre, and rub the head with it. Let it lie in this pickle for eight or ten days, rubbing it for the first few days, and turning it dally afterwards. It m.ay then be cooked, or hung up near a hot chimney to dry, or smoked as bacon. Before it is cooked, it should be soaked in water for some hours; provided it h.as been dried, otherwise it will not require it. An hour and a half of slow boiling will be sufficient to cook it. 5010. Ham, to boil. — If a ham be highly dried, it will require twelve hours soaking in cold water ; then scrape it with a knife till clean and free from rust. Set it on in cold water, and after it boils, and the scum has been removed, let it simmer for four or five hours. When boiled, the skin must be peeled off and the ham be glazed, or have raspings of bread sifted over it. 5011. To boil bacon. — If highly dripd, soak it for an hour or two, changing the water once ; then pare off the rusty parts, and trim it on the under side ; scrape the rind clean, put it into the pot, cover it with cold water, and boil it gently for an hour, — if more than three pounds in size, an hour and a half Remove the skin before it is dished, .sprinkle over it some rasped crust of bread, and put it for a few minutes before the fire. SuBSECT. 6. — Venison. 5012. Haunch of venison, roasted. — One of buck venison, weighing from twenty to twenty-five pounds, will require four hours and a half roasting ; doc venison, weighing from fifteen to eigiiteen pounds, three hours and a half : it is better to have it under than overdone. To preserve the fat, cover the haunch, especially where the fat lies, with white paper, buttered, and over this lay a paste of flour spread upon coar.se paper, pre- viously rubbed with dripping to prevent it being scorched. Fasten this last covering