FOREIGN WINES. 611 .Chap. IV. R r a Sexard wine on the Danube between Buda and Esset is strong and deep coloured, cheap, and of good quality. These wines may be imported by the way of Trieste. 3447? Swiss wines. — Switzerland produces some good wines, but they are not exported. Red wines are made at SchafFhaiisen, Bode, and Erlach in Berne : that of Neufchatel resembles Burgundy. In the Valteline they have an excellent red wine much resembling those of France. Fine red wine is made in the country of the Grisons, and one which is white called Chiavenna. In Valais they make some good wines, but others are very in- different. The canton of Vaud produces dry wines resembling Rhenish. ScBSECT. 3. — Wines of Portugal. 3448. From the climate of Portugal, one might expect its wines to be excellent; yet great part of the red wine imported from that country under the name of port is well known to be of a very inferior quality. It will be useful to trace the cause of this. 3449. Before the revolution in 1688, great quantities of French wine were imported into England, to the extent some years of 20,000 tuns. Besides Portugal, Spain and Italy at that time came in for a considerable share of our wine trade; and Spanish wines were imported from Gallicia, Alicant, Malaga, Barcelona, Benecarlo, and other places; Italy supplied us from Leghorn and Florence. 3450. 'When the war with France broke out in 1689, England was deprived of the supplies of Bordeaux claret, which, previous to that time, had been the wine chiefly drunk in this country. Recourse was had, as a substitute, chiefly to the red wine of Portugal, which then appears to have been imported for the first time, but which has ever since been the principal wine used in England, so as to have even changed the public taste in a remarkable manner. In addition to this cause of difficvdty in procuring French wine, the British govern- ment imposed a discriminating duty of 8/. a ton upon it, and in 1697 raised it to no less than 33/. a tun—a blow, it is said, then aimed at the French nation, in consequence of Louis XIV. having espoused the cause of the exiled family of Stuart. It is very probable that this excess of duty would have been repealed when the excite- ment which gave rise to it had subsided, had it not been confirmed by the famous com- mercial treaty in 1703 with Portugal, which was negociated by Mr. Paul Methuen, hence called the Methuen treaty, through which we bound ourselves to charge one-third higher duties on the wines of France imported into England than on those of Portugal; the Portuguese, by way of compensation, binding themselves to admit our woollens into their markets in preference to those of other countries, at a fixed and invariable rate of duty. This, at the time, was considered as. highly advantageous to this country, not considering ; that by this vindictive policy we gave the Portuguese a complete monopoly of the British 1 market, at the same time that we excluded one of the principal equivalents which tlie French had to offer for our commodities, and thus deprived ourselves of commerce that ' would have been far more extensive than that with Portugal, besides provoking France I to a retaliation that has been injurious to both parties. The high duty thus imposed upon the wines of France became almost prohibitive, 1 while the comparative cheapness of the wines of Portugal afforded a strong motive for t their introduction. Previously to this time, there were few vineyards on the banks of t the Douro, and the wines sent to England were chiefly those of Lisbon, or the adjacent (country. But the increased demand for Portuguese wine led to the extension of vine- j yards. Several British supercargoes had settled at Oporto, and it is said that they first tencouraged the proprietors of lands in the Upper Douro to devote themselves to the ■'Cultivation of the vine. But as the demand for the wines of that territory continued to 1 increase, and the produce of the new vineyards were necessarily often of inferior quality, t the growers and dealers resorted to various expedients for supplying the deficiency in the 'iquantity required for exportation. Originally the Portuguese wines were sent to England pure and unmixed with brandy, ''but soon after this treaty was concluded, the Portuguese began to adulterate their wines, iimingling brandy with the must during the fermentation, either from an impression that it was necessary to make them keep for exportation, or from some, other causes less ■ excusable. It is said, also, that an English factor, who resided at Viaua, near Oporto, Idiscovered and taught the use of the elderberry in deepening the colour of their wines. 'At that time Florence wine, which is highly coloured, being much drunk in England, a deep red colour was thought necessary for the English taste j and hence, no doubt, have ■ followed numerous expedients for giving artificial colour to wine. About the middle of the last century this practice, and other adulterations, became so I prevalent, that a considerable diniiniition took place in the consumption of Portuguese wine, and the trade of the growers consequently suffered in proportion. Many complaints of the adulterations of tlie wine were made, even l)y the Knglish merchants themselves Settled at Oporto ; and some of these, in conjunction with the proprietors of the vineyards