HOUSEHOLD CLEANING. (ClIAP. II. 343 ccomplaints are often confined to some solitary instance in a family, and do not spread, sas formerly they would have done, with the fatal rapidity of a pestilence. This specific allays ilhe scourge, as well as giving exemption from contagion to all who practise it. Many , other etfects of cleanliness on health might be stated, with considerations of much import- aance in other points, relative to family comfort and prosperity. 1G05. The economy of cleanliness is another recommendation to its observance ; the uuniform cleaning of house and furniture are amongst the best means of preserving both : «we can neglect no wholesome practice in the whole cycle of domestic cleaning without liuflicting an injury on some part of our property. We may even incur an entire loss, by cneglecting to clean in time some of the various articles of furniture which comfort and oconvenience require us to possess. So that to the other evils of uncleanliness we may ffairly add that of ivaste of property. Thus on domestic cleanliness how much depends ! I ■comfort, economy, health, and respectability. 16"06. It must be acknowledged that in this coimtry, the taste for cleanliness, if the term N)e permitted, has long been cultivated, although there may be room still for improve- r.ment in it, as its universal prevalence depends upon the cidtivation of more qualities than I Dne. 1607. Yet here we must observe that, indispensable as the practice of cleanliness is, like naiany other good inclinations and habits, it may be carried too far. It may encourage lan inconvenient fastidiousness, a nicety that must often be offended, and a consequent teendency to irritation of temper. Such effects would, in some degree, counterbalance the sadvantages of cleanliness. 1608. There are families and situations in life in which cleanliness can only be practised im generals, not in details : in such cases the love of it should be kept within the bounds of poossibility, or it may become a daily cause of family uneasiness and discord. We delight tco see the supremacy of cleanliness, its victory over dirt and smoke ; but it can only yield SBUch pleasure, when known to be the result of a practical, orderly, and regular system, and r.Qot of the severe, hard, daily duty which we imagine to be the characteristic of an enslaved r jxistence. Cleanliness, like every other good quality, must have its prescribed limits. If ihhese be overstepped, it may prove a torment and inconvenience, instead of one of the Mources of domestic enjoyment. PI 1609. We now proceed to such details respecting the practical part of our subject as ninay enable the mistress of a family or her housekeeper to form her system of household ?jleanliness, and to direct its daily course. StmsECT. 2. — Cleaning Floors. 1610. Floors of a house may be of several kinds : of boards, of brick, and of stone. 1611. Boarded floors axe commonly either of oak or deal. The former, chiefly seen in N^ountry houses, or in the residences of the opulent, forms an excellent substantial flooring, lend is often only partially covered with carpet. Deal floors, on the contrary, are almost (uniformly and entirely carpeted, except in the apartments assigned to children and servants: hhe mode of cleaning them is consequently of less moment and less laborious than that nmployed in cleaning floors of oak. 1612. Scouring—for which the housemaid must be provided with a good-sized wooden pail for water, a rv7O0den bowl for sand, a piece of fliinnel rather more than half a vard square, and a liard scrubbing-brush — consists in scrubbing floors with the brush, some sand, and clean'cold water, and afterwards in washing off hhe sand with the flannel. Soap is sometimes used with sand; but, instead of improving, it injures the colour r(f the bo.ards when dry, giving them a bliickish appearance. 1fil3. In scouring, the housemaid first dips her brush in the water, then sprinkles it with sand, and scrubs, "i force, such portions of the floor as her .arms can reach at a time. From these she washes off the sand • the flannel, drying and completing each portion at once, so that she need not tread over the boards until are dry. In bed-rooms it is desirable to scour first the boards beneath beds, chests of dr.awers, or w.ard- -. that these parts, being less open to the air th.an others in the room, m.ay have the more time to dry. II bed-rooms and n\irseries are scoured in the winter, and when the windows cannot be long open on Ir. iunt of the we.ather, it is very prudent to have fires in e.ach room to accelerate the evaporation of the loisture on the floors. The damp arising from newly-scoured boards is as likely as any cause whatever to ncnuragc the infljunm.atory diseases of childhood, or the coughs of individuals subject to them 1R14. For scouring, when necessary to heilone in winter, dry clear weatlier should be chosen. During very •osty weather it ought rarely to be done, the evaporation not being then r.apid enough to carry oil' the mois- irc of the boards ; or if it freezes on the boards, which is sometimes the case, it then requires two days, • ad of one, to dry the room thoroughly. 1 1. Deal boards, if not carpeted, should look white and clean ; they may be improved, if the colour be ilcrent, by the use of fullers' earth or pearlash dissolved in the water. In tlie use of cle.an w.ater the ; "ii.cmaid should not be sp.aring ; whenever it begins to look dark-coloured and becomes thick, she I i Hitd inst.antiv carry it away, and bring a p.ail of clean fresh water to her task. If she docs not change the irr frecpiently. she will smear and not clean the floor. Scouring, in most /muses, is usnally done at stated nals; in nurseries and offices, generally every week; in bed-rooms, every fortniglit, or once a month, iiling to season and situation ; in sitting and eating-rooms, which are carpeted, scouring is not done J than once or twice in the year, nor need dry rubbed oaken boards bo scoured more than once in twelve I 1 nth*. I '116. Oak hoards. —The effect of scouriiifr oak boards with soap and water is to bring Ml to a dirty dull white colour. To prevent this, the boards, after being scoured, are hed over with water, coloured either with umlicr or tiidlow ochre. With old boards Z 4 '