CONFECTIONERY FOR DESSERTS, ETC. 934 Book XV. pensetl with. Yet, in London, or in other great towns, these delicacies need not, neither can they often be of domestic manufacture. There the confectioner by trade can supply them more easily, and at a less cost tlian can be effected in all general cases at home; but, in country places, circumstances being different, the confectioner not being close at hand, the forming of ices, together with the preparing of other accompanying luxuries, must necessarily be a domestic concern ; thus, an ice-house is convenient, for the con- struction of which see Book VIII. Chap. VII. Also some suggestions and instructions in this work will be useful to the more youthful, if not to the experienced domestic manu- facturer of these luxuries. 5452. Preliminary notices. — The principal utensils required for making ice creams are, ice tubs, freezing pots, spaddles, and a cellaret. The tub must be large enough to contain about a bushel of ice, pounded small, when brought out of the ice-house, and mixed very carefully with either salt, nitre, or soda. The freezing pot is best made of pewter. If it be of tin, as is sometimes the case, the congelation goes on too rapidly in it for the thorough intermingling of its contents, and on which the excellence of the ice greatly depends. The spuddle is generally made of copper, kept bright and clean. 77te cellaret is a tin vessel, in which ices are kept for a short time from dissolving. The method to be pursued in the freezing process must be attended to. Wben the ice tub is prepared with fresh pounded ice and salt, the freezing pot is put into it up to its cover. The articles to be congealed are then poured into it, and covered over. But to prevent the ingredients from separating, and the heaviest of them from falling to the bottom of the mould, it is requisite to turn the freezing pot round and round by the handle, so as to keep its contents moving until the congelation commences. As soon as this is perceived (the cover of the pot being occasionally taken off for the purpose of noticing when freezing takes place), the cover is immediately closed over it, ice is put upon it, and it is left in this state till it is to be sei-ved. The use of the spaddle is to stir up and remove from the sides of the freezing pot the cream, which in the shaking, may have washed against it, and by stirring it in with the rest to prevent any waste of it occurring. Any negligence in stirring the contents of the freezing pot before congelation takes place will spoil the whole. Either the sugar sinks to the bottom, and leaves the ice insufficiently sweetened, or lumps are formed which disfigure and discolour it. Sect. II. CREAMS FOR ICES. 1 ICt: 5453. No. 1. Ingredients: 1 pint of cream, 8 yollcs of eggs, and lemon peel thinly pared. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and mix them gently with the cream ; add the lemon peel, pared extremely fine; put the whole into a well-tinned, or bell-metal saucepan : being set over a slow fire, the contents of the saucepan must be stirred constantly with a whisk, until the cream begins to thicken. As soon as this is perceived, by the cream moving round the saucepan less easily, it must be taken off the fire, but the stirring must be con- tinned for a short time, and at intervals, until the cream is cool. Great care must be taken in preventing it while on the fire from boiling, which would curdle it AVhen cool, a little sifled sugar may be stirred in, and the whole strained into a basin until wanted. In this state it is ready to have any flavour given to it which may be required. 5454. No. 2. Whipt cream. — The ingredients are: 1 quart of cream, sugar to the taste. (To these flavours, either of orange-flower water, or of lemon-juice and wine, may be given according to the use for which the cream is intended; but when to be used for ices, the orange-flower water is the most general flavouring ingredient employed.) Put the cream, the orange-flower water, and sugar into a bowl. Have at hand another basin with a silk sieve over it. Whisk the cream briskly, and as the froth rises to the surface, skim it off, and pour it into the sieve. Continue whisking and skimming, and pouring back into the bowl that part of the cream which passes through the sieve. When the whole of the cream is thus whisked, it may stand in the sieve until wanted, or it may be iced, by putting the sieve into a cellaret filled with pounded ice and salt. With either this kind of cream, or with such as may be prepared according to the pre- ceding receipt, most of the ice creams in general use may be formed. 54 V') Orqcal ice cream. — The ingredients are, 1 oz. of sweet almonds, \ oz. of bittei almonds, 1 pmt of cream, 8 yolks of eggs, 4 oz. of sifted sugar. Blanch and pound the almonds with a little orange-flower water. Beat the yolks, add the sugar, and stii _ all together gently into the cream. Put tlie whole on the fire, and whisk it round and ^. round till it begins to thicken. Take it off, stir till cold, then put it into the freezing pot and work as before directed. . . , ■ . J 5450. Slraxcherry ice cream. —ingredients are: 1 pint of strawberries, 1 pint ot thick cream, the juice of half a lemon ; sugar to the taste. Mash and strain the juice