RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 885 Chap I. 3 L 3 SuBSECT. 3.—Million. 4980. Leg of mutton boiled. — Cut off the shank bone, and trim the knuckle. Put the leg into milk-warm water for ten minutes, and wash it clean; cover it with cold water in a saucepan, and boil, scum, and simmer gently for two hours and a half or three hours, according to its weight and to the time of the year. Serve with boiled tui-nips and caper sauce. 4981. The neck of mutton is also boiled, and served with mashed turnips and caper sauce. It should be boiled in the skin ; but this should be stripped off before it is served. 4982. Stewed leg of mutton. — This is larded with bacon on the upper side, and put into a stew-pot with either water or broth, two or three carrots, one turnip, an onion, and a few black peppercorns. After the water boils it must be allowed to simmer for two hours and a half; the broth and vegetables are then taken out, the meat dredged with flour, and put again on the fire to brown, with the cover left off. The vegetables are pulped through a sieve, and boiled up with the gravy, to which a table spoonful of vinegar has been added. Part of the sauce is poured over the meat, and the remainder sent up in a tureen. 4983. Hotchpotch. — Stew together, in a small quantity of water, some pease, lettuces, and onions, with a ham or beef bone. Season with pepper and salt, and fry of a good brown some mutton chops ; lay them in a stew-pan and cover them with the vegetables, and stew them all together for three quarters of an hour. Serve them in a tureen. 4984. Steived loin of mutton to eat like venison. —'The bones are taken out and boiled for gi-avy, which is put into the stew-pan with the mutton rolled up and tied, and half a pint of red wine, an onion, and some dried mushrooms. A seasoning of pepper and salt having been strewed on the inside of the mutton before it was rolled, the mutton must be stewed for two hours, and when taken out a little mushroom catsup must be added to the gravy, and a thickening of butter and flour. 498.5. Shoulder of mutton stewed u'ilh onion sauce. — Hang it up for three or four days ; salt it for two days. Bone it, sprinkle it with pepper and pounded mace, la}' some oysters on it, roll it up and tie it. Stew it gently l^iir two hoars, closely covered, and in a very little water, and a few peppercorns. Prepare some good gravy with oysters stewed m it, and which must be thickened with flour and hutter, and when tlie tape is removed from the mutton, pour the sauce over it. 4986. Haunch of mutton roasted. — To roast a haunch of mutton, the fire must be sharp and brisk. The haunch should be entirely covered with paper till half an hour before it is to be served, when the paper should be removed in order that the browning and frosting may be efi^ected. The haunch is usually served with currant jelly, mutton gravy in a tureen, and with broccoli sprouts or spinach ; the knuckle is usually ornamented with white paper cut in strips. 4987. Saddle of mutton roasted. — Saddle is one of the most favourite joints of mutton. It is always roasted. The fat on its surface is scored in squares ; the skin previously separated from the fat by the butcher is generally skewered on by the cook as a pre- servative of the fat, but which is removed in time to froth and brown the surface. The juice of the meat that flows on carving is by many esteemed as the best gravy ; but it is usual to have a tureen of mutton gravy and some jelly sauce served with the joint. 4988. Loin of mutton roasted — done as the last. The neck, dressed as venisnn. — Have a neck of good four or five years old Southdown wether mutton, (cnt long in the bones J hung for nearly a week. Two days before dressing it, pound together a quarter of a pound ol^allspice and the same quantity of black pepper, and rub the mutton well with it twice a day. Then wash away the spice, cover tlie meat witli coarse paste and roast it, as directed for venison. Serve with it mutton gravy and currant jelly. The neck roasted and served with mutton gravy, and boiled spinach, is a very good dish. 4989. Broiled mutton chops. — Cut the chops from either the loin or the best end of the neck, trim them neatly and take off some of the fat if requisite. Pepper them lightly; put them on the gridiron over a clear fire. Turn the chops three or four times with a proper pair of tongs. When sufficiently done, remove them to a hot-water dish, sjjrinkle a little salt over them, and lay upon them a few small bits of butter. One of the principal points to be observed in dressing chops and steaks is the sending them hot to table. Mut- ton gravy in a tureen is sometimes also served. 4990. Fried mutton chops are generally inferior to broiled, though, if done well, they do not differ much. After turning the chops in the pan frequently, remove them to a hot dish, and pour away the liquid fat in the pan ; boil up in it a few table-spoonfuls of broth or warm water, with a table-spoonful of mushroom catsup, or any other flavouring sauce; and when hot pour it into the dish with the chops, or serve it in a sauce tureen. 4991. Mutton chops in disguise. — Sprinkle each chop with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and roll them separately in white paper, of which the inside must be buttered ; close the ends of the paper securely, and fry the chops until they appear brown. Do not disturb or break the papers, but let all the fat of the pan drain from them before putting them on the dish ; cover them plentifully with parsley fried crisp, and send in a tureen some good mutton gravy flavoured with mushroom catsup.