BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. 54G undergoing the vinous fermentation : the chief of these are sugar and starch ; and we may perhaps say sugar only, because, when starch assists in the formation of spirit, it is sup- posed to be first changed into sugar during the process. Tliis fact occasions a very striking distinction in vegetable matters : namely, those which, by possessing sugar or starch, are capable of affording fermented liquors ; and those which, being deticient in these materials, cannot be so fermented. 3076. Some chemists enumerate another species of fermentation, which sometimes takes place, and precedes all these, viz. the saccharine fermentation, by which starch or fecula, and perhaps gum, are converted into sugar. Instances of this may be observed in the ripening or maturation of fruits, in preparing sugar from starch by an artificial process, and in the art of brewing. Still another .species of fermentation h;\s been mentioned, the panary, supposed to take place in the baking of bread ; but tiiis latter is now considered as only the commencement of the vinous fermentation. Sect. III. OENEHAL PHENOMENA OBSEHVED DURING THE FERMENTATION OF VEGETABLES, AND PAKTiCCLARLY DUniNG THE VINOUS FERMENTATION. 3077. If a saccharine vegetable juice, whether that of the grape or of any other fruit, or the decoction of malt, diluted with a sufficient quantity of water be left to itself, at a heat equal to the ordinary temperature of summer, that is from 50° to 70°, it will soon begin to ferment. 3078. The appearances presented by this fermentation will he as folloivs. A number of small air bubbles will rise to the surface and break ; these will gradually increase in number, until the whole fluid will seem to be in a state of gentle ebullition. An internal motion in the mass will now be evident, and the liquor, though at first clear, will become turbid; the temperature will rise a little ; a bubbling noise at length is heard, from the increase of the internal action, and the breaking of the air bubbles on the surface, and the liquor will have a tendency to swell so as to overflow the vessel. The gas or air which is generated, and which ascends in bubbles to the surface, not easily escaping, raises the fluid, and fills the upper part of the vessel; and, if it be examined, it will be found to consist mostly of carbonic acid gas, or fixed air. A lighted candle or taper will be instantly extinguished if held in it; and an attempt to breathe it would produce suff'ocation. This gas is heavier than common air, and consequently, though invisible, it will be found to have flowed over the edge of the vessel containing the fermenting liquor, and to cover the floor of the apartment; and as, from its weight, it chiefly occupies only that part of the room, and does not mix readily with the common air, we are not always sensible of its existence, except we make some experiment to ascertain it. A dense froth filled with this gas now covers the surface of the fermenting liquor, and contains a viscid matter, in which it is entangled; the latter is called yeast, and has evidently been generated by the process which is going on. At length, after a few days, this action becomes languid; the formation of gas and of yeast lessens gradually; what has been formed of the latter settles to the bottom, and the liquor loses its muddiness, and becomes clear and transparent. 3079. The liquor which has thus fermented will be found to have been very much altered in its properties: its sweetness and viscidity have disappeared, and it has acquired a spirituous or a vinous taste and odour, evidently containing a quantity of alcohol or ardent spirit: hence this first stage is called the vinous fermentation. If the juice of grapes, called must, is the fluid that has been fermented, the product or new fluid will be wine; if it is a decoction of barley dried and made into malt, the liquor will be ale ; and if either of these be put into the still, and heat be applied in the usual way, the spirit may be obtained, because, this being the most volatile part, will rise first as vapour in the still. This spirit, when deprived of much of its water by re-distilling and other processes, will form alcohol, which is only another name for spirit perfectly pure. Pure spirit, or alcohol, whether derived from the distillation of wine, ale, even small beer, or any other fer- mented liquor, is of the same nature, and indeed absolutely the same liquid. 3080. The jfirst stage of fermentation always terminates in the production of more or less o/" the intoxicating fluid, alcohol; and it is the proportional quantity alone of alcohol or spint in any liquor which determines what is called its strength. 3081. T7ie explanation of this change hy means of fermentation, in which the SAvectness of the liquor has disappeared, and alcohol has been produced, is this ;—the water remains unaltered, and it is the saccharine matter that has been changed into three new sub- stances alcohol, water, and carbonic acid. The decomposition has been effected by the chemical power of a certain substance called a ferment, a distinct principle from the sugar, and which either exists naturally in the juices of certain fniits, or in the yeast which is added to excite fermentation, as will be particularly described afierward.s. It is necessary to observe that no vinous fermentation can occur in any liquid, except