1036 SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. Book XIX. there is generally a constitutional liability to this defect, for which the only safe apd sure "f; remedy is to guard the face by a veil or parasol : with respect to pimples, we consider !. that no applications should be made without medical advice, since incalculable mischief f \ may be done by employing the nostrums that are usually recommended, some of which ^' are dangerous, being repellents which drive inwardly what nature is endeavouring to throw out. We refer the reader to the medical part of this work in Book XXVL for advice on this subject. ^ la: is CHAP. vin. COSMETICS. r- 6134. General observations.—The desire of being agreeable has, no doubt, led to the invention of cosmetics. Under this term are usually comprehended aU the expedients invented to soften the skin, to maintain its transparency, lustre, and freshness, to ^ve colour to the complexion, to prevent or elFace wrinkles, to whiten and clean the teeth, to E stain the hair and eyebrows ; and, in short, to improve the appearance of the face and hands. !ii 6135. The term is derived from the Greek Koafitiv, to adorn ; the Greek ladies, we are /' told, studied much the use of cosmetics, as the women of the East do at the present day; \'> hence, we see frequently advertised various nostrums under the title of Circassian bloom, 'o &c. When we consider the anatomical structure of the skin, and how easily it absorbs « substances applied to it, it is evident how careful we should be not to use any deleterious ■> materials for the face and hands, and that we should know accurately the nature and composition of all substances recommended by perfumers. The intimate connexion between the functions of the skin and those of the stomach were not so well imderstood formerly as they are in the present day; and hence many practices were resorted to in the use of cosmetics that are now known to be very improper. Nevertheless all cosmetics are not to be condemned equally : some are perhaps harmless, and others are occasionally useful. We shall illustrate this by a few general remarks. Of paints for the face, which are occasionally employed, some, as we shall show, are highly dangerous ; and those which are not so have an injurious effect, if used constantly, in stopping up or clogging the pores of the skin. Those cosmetics which owe their efficacy to vinegar and alum, or any other acids and astringents, are often for a time efficacious, giving a firmness and lustre to the skin; but this effect is merely temporary, for they in time alter its tex- ture, dry it, and produce premature wrinkles — they are therefore better avoided. Mn- cilaginous cosmetics, such as barley water, oatmeal, &c., have not this inconvenience; they render the skin more supple, softer, and more polished. Pastes and ointments sometimes produce good effects in certain states of the skin. They are generally laid on the face or hands, and remain on all night, contributing to restore the suppleness and elasticity of the skin ; but the fatty substances that form their bases ought to be well purified. Some consider the wax that sometimes enters into the composition as too dry- ing and irritating, and recommend fresh cream as better. As a general rule, it is prudent to avoid the use of all cosmetics the composition of which is a secret or unknown, which will of course exclude all those which are advertised with high-sounding names. Some of these produce astonishing effects at first, but ultimately ruin the skin, destroying its natural functions, and consequently seriously injuring health. 6136. AU medical men teach that the best way of improving the skin is to improve the health generally by temperate living and moderate exercise, and this will be evident by con- sidering its structure. It is well known that the skin consists of the outer or scarf skin, called by anatomists the cuticle or epidermis, and the inner or true skin, named dermis. The first is a verv thin membrane, transparent, and without blood-vessels ; it has no nerves, consequently no sensation, and may be pared or cut with a knife without any pain ; it is that which rises in blisters. The true skin beneath is much thicker, and is entirely filled with nerves, and the extremities of an infinity of minute blood-vessels, by which the blood which comes from the heart to the skin returns back again, the turn in the circulation being at the surface. That these nerves and vessels are excessively numerous is shown by the prick of a needle in any part giving pain, and by the blood which issues from some very minute vessel having been pierced. The change in a large portion of the circulation taking place, as we have stated, in the skin, it is obvious that whatever impedfs in anj' degree the healthy action of this organ must aflFect the whole system, as far as the circulation is concerned ; and it is to preserve its most important functions that the use of the bath, friction, and similar processes, are resorted to. These minute blood- vessels approach very near to the surface of the skin, and the cutis being transparent.