'238 PRESERVATION OF IlEAI/rH. Book XXVI. powerful action for a few moments, tlien fnlls and becomes quite insensible; the eyes are vol ed upwards and inwards, the hands clenched, the limbs convulsed, the features dis- torted, the head rolled from side to side, or bowed up and down; there is foaming at the mouth, and the tongue is protruded and bitten. After a time, these symptoms prldually subside, and the piitient sinks mto a torpid state for some hours, from which he awakens drowsy, heavy, and incapable of exertion. The scream at the commencement is very' characteristic ; when once heard, it can never be forgotten ; on hearing it, a parrot hss been known to drop from its perch, to the bottom of its cage, as if stupified by terror It does not occur, however, in all cases, and often attention is first directed to the patient by seeing him fajl heavily to the ground. Persons subject to epileptic fits, after a time undergo a peculiar change in feature ; the face enlarges and grows coarse, the finest countenance becomes plain, the lips and cheeks become bloated, and of a white unhealthy hue, the eyes look dull and inexpressive, memory is impaired, the finer qualities of the mind are totally lost, and in some cases, after a variable time, insanity in some one of its numerous forms, most frequently in that of imbecility, consigns the unfortunate patient to confinement. During the fit of epilepsy, all that can be done is to loosen the neckcloth, and to lay the patient on the floor or bed in such a way that his straggles may do him least injury ; the movements should not be restrained — any attempt to do so often in- creases their violence; when the tongue is protruded and bitten, it is always necessary to put pieces of cork or thick pasteboard between the teeth, so as to keep the mouth open ; they should be placed near the angles of the mouth, between the large molar teeth. The treatment of epilepsy between the fits is far too lengthy a subject to be treated here: •we shall only remark that the best medical treatment will fail, if not assisted by attention to habits and modes of life ; there are certain habits of a pernicious kind, to which it is impossible to allude more particularly in this place, which sometimes produce the disease and always augment its violence ; if these are not discontinued, the epilepsy will not cease; " there is no cure for it in the medicine chest, no, not in the best furnished apothecary's shop." Besides these, it is necessary to avoid excitement of all kinds, too much study or atten- tion to business; to abstain from the luxuries of the table ; to take regular exercise, and to attend to the state of the secretions. SuBSECT. 8.—Insanittf. 7274. On this subject it is not our intention to make any remarks. The brief sketch which our space would allow to give to this subject would be more likely to mislead than to instruct ; we shall content ourselves with enumerating the three gi-eat rules of what is called the "moral treatment" of insanity, and which have been laid down with great clearness by an admirable French writer, M. Georget. These rules are :.— 1. The ideas and passions of hmatics on the subject of their delirium must never be excited ; 2. Their unreasonable opinions must never be opposed by argument, oppo- sition, or ridicule : there are some exceptions to this rule, and some cases, unfortunately few in number, which are benefited by a kind and careful discussion ; 3. New ideas and affections must if possible be excited in their minds, and their attention directed to sub- jects foreign to their hallucination. Their bodily health must be promoted by the usual means of diet, cleanliness, and exercise, and which will be more alluded to in the Section on " Convalescence."' SlTDSECT. 9 Gout. 7275. It seems scarcely necessary to describe an attack of gout. The most usual fornr^ is as follows: — the attack commences in the night suddenly with a sharp pain in the ball of the great toe ; it comes on in twinges, and soon becomes very severe; the toe swells, and the skin becomes red and shining over it; after remaining at a height for several hours or for two or three days, the pain subsides, and the swelling and redness gradually disappear, and the cuticle peels off. Previous to an attack of gout, certain symptoms occur which are of great importance, because, if taken in time, the approaching attack may be warded off. These symptoms are often those of indigestion ; viz. heart- burn ; pain at the pit of the stomach ; a load there after food ; acid eructations ; a white tongue; costiveness ; high-coloured and scanty urine, with a red deposit ; wakefulness; and perhaps flying pains in the limbs. If, when these symptoms occur in a person who has previously had gout, the diet were reduced, blood-letting practised, if the habit were full and gross and the pulse strong, and purgatives taken, particularly col- chicum, in the doses presently to be mentioned, the approaching attack may be at once arrested. The most usual form of gont is one that requires abstinence and exercise ; even in habits the most predisposed, attention to the circumstances will secure freedom from the disease.