329 cChap. I. CONDITION OF DOMESTIC SERVANTS. 1491 The servants hall, in which both men and maid servants have dinner and supper, iis also the place to which all the men below the butler repair when disengaged from tl'heir several occupations. In this place the kitchen-maid, and the boy who cleans the .servants' knives and forks, wait at table. After each dinner and supper the parties '.separate, and adjourn, as above-mentioned, to the several places appomted for them. 149-' Tlie 7iurseries are the proper places for those who have the charge of the children idn them to remain in during the evening. Their attention ought at that period to be c3-iven to the repairing or making of children's clothes. Nurses and under nurses always haave their meals in the nursery. In some places the head nurse has the privilege of ■supping in the housekeeper's room, provided all her charges are well and asleep. Order in which the niembers of a household establishment rank themselves. MEN. House steward. Valet. Butler. French cook. Footman. Under butler. Coachman. Groom. Steward's boy. Stable boys. WOMEN. Housekeeper. Lady's maid. Head nurse. Head cook. Upper housemaid. Still-maid. Upper laundry-maid. Dairy-maid. Under housemaids. Under laundry-maid. Kitchen-maid. Scullion. 1493. In establishments of the highest rank there are grooms of the chamber to be added to the above list. TThe duty of these individuals is to remain in the ante-room ready to usher visiters mto the drawing-rooms, aind to superintend the appropriation of the several bed-rooms, place, send off, and receive the trunks, &c, of oarties visiting at the house. 1494. In establishments where there are neither steward, housekeeper, nor butler, tbhe cook presides at table, and is in some measure regarded as responsible for decorum land good order being observed by all seated round it. In such small establishments, [khere would be no use for many of the strict regulations which in larger ones are essential. WVhen there is no servants' hall, the servants take their meals in the kitchen, and sit there dilso when they are disengaged from their routine of business. Footmen have their jantries, in which, if they have nothing particularly demanding their attention, they can occupy themselves in reading and writing. SuBSECT. 4.—Perquisites of Servants. 1495. The perquisites of servants are, in many cases, so many encroachments on the [loroperty of their employers, who tacitly allow them, while they, in principle, condemn ;hhem. Perquisites are amongst the circumstances which tend to corrupt the morals of iQOusehold servants, and as such their continuance is most objectionable. At the same tidme it would be difficult to eradicate the evil which is, by prescription, become almost a Idomestic law. Why it has so corrupting an influence amongst a household it is not difficult to perceive. It places the interest of servants in opposition to those of masters. I \What is gain to the one is often loss to the other ; and in taking only a short-sighted .'iew of his interest, a servant's integrity is not always proof against the temptation of ummediate gain. The barrier between honesty and dishonesty being once broken, who :jan say how often it will be passed ? 1496. Amongst the perquisites, the first that may be noticed as objectionable is that of vails or gifts in money rom visiters to servants. The custom is a species of bribery for services which ought to be performed uvithout it, and it has a tendency to make servants less attentive than they ouglit to be, towards such visiters ..IS cannot give them great pecuniary rewards. For such gifts servants are seldom the richer ; they often employ them in gratitications which it would be better for them to forego. The custom is growing into i.Ususe, and some very respectable families make it one of the rules in hiring their servants, that they shall accept of no such gifts, but when offered shall inform the visiter that it is contrary to the rule of the house to Liake them. 1497. Perquisites of cooks consist chiefly in dripping, commonly called " kitchen stuff." This percjuisite is ery generally allowed, probably from the difficulty of keening any check upon the cook's use of it, if it were niot allowed. Every temptation to purloin should be in all houses as much avoided as possible ; but in this [ larticular instance it is scarcely possible to avoid it. If the perquisite be forbidden, no one can tell if the ;ook will not furtively secure it to herself. If it be allowed her, another temptation assails her; that of ibtaining as much of it as she can by practices me,m and despicable. A cook who grasps at making much of ilripping often over-ro.ists joints of meat, by which the fat is melted into the dripping pan. She neither rotccts the fat from the fire by covering it with p.iper, nor bastes the surface of the meat to keep it moist m1 rich. She trims from all joints all extem.'d fat, to add to her hoards ; she uses for frying and for common -try expensive materials when she has that at hand which would answer as well, and would more honestly nploy the melted fat which is obtained in roasting meat. \ \W. I'crquisiles of hutlcrs or of foottnen,-Khera butlers .ire not kept, are chiefly the ends of wax and r.noulil candles ; and In the department of the oilman's book many peculations are often practised undetected. 1499. The dairy maid, if she has charge of poultry, considers the feathers, when the poultry is killed, us her oerquisite. As this may be an inducement to take proper care of the poultry. It may not be a privilege of so injurious a nature as those before noticed. SuBSECT. .5. —Hiring Servants. 1.500. In hiring servants, all will desire to have those who have spent most of their years n-yi service, and especially their earliest, in families whose principles, habits, and general