GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. 836 vessel kept full of transparent steam, at first its coldness will cause the steam to condense upon it, and of course to moisten it: but when the meat is heated tlirough up to the same temperature as tlie steam itself, it cannot occasion any such condensation ; and the meat will then remain without farther moistening; real steam being, as we have said, always dry. It cannot be necessary after this explanation to notice the absurdity of supposing that dry steam is " steam not completely saturated with water." Dry steam has as nmch water as the visible vapour, but this water cannot appear as such until it is condensed. See this subject further illustrated in describing the Rumford roaster, p. 819. We have stated above that by means of steam, now so extensively employed in cookery, almost every process of the cook mai/ be performed by this agent, but probably not with the greatest advantage, and therefore much judgment is required in its application. Even roasting and baking have been effected by high-pressure steam ; that is, steam heated in close strong vessels considerably above 212°, such as Perkins's steam tubes for warming buildings : but it is very doubtful whether this could be applied advantageously in domestic economy ; and it is sufficient merely to mention it as a philosophical fact. Steam is, however, usefully employed in hot closets, hot tables, heating water for baths, drying cloths, &c. Whenever steam is employed, its elastic power when confined should not be lost sight of, nor indeed any of its properties which we have described. It should be remembered that its force may be equal to that of gunpowder. In all boilers, therefore, for the generation of steam, there should be a safety valve, which gives way and permits it to escape, when- ever its power becomes so great as to endanger the containing vessel, otherwise an explosion might be the consequence of its confinement. 47.37. In large kitchens, lohere steam is much employed, and required for many purposes, it is the custom to fit up a boiler constructed nearly in the same manner as that for steam engines ; but this requires the constant attention of a person exi)crienced in the manage- ment of a steam boiler. It may be placed in an apartment adjoining the kitchen, since the steam can be conducted to any place by means of pipes: but care must be taken that all such pipes are accessible in case of any repair being necessary. Sect. IX. COOKING BY GAS. 47-38. Among the novelties in the culinary art is the use of coal gas for producing the necessary heat. This method has a certain elegance to recommend it, and there are' occasions when it may be found useful. Some persons have been so sanguine as to suppose that this employment of gas may soon do away altogether with the necessity of open fires in our kitchens,— a hasty opinion evidently founded upon a very superficial and imperfect acquaintance with the business of an ordinary kitchen. Several experiments have been made which prove that every process in cooking may, by the judicious appli- cation of burning gas, be effected; but this supposes a great variety of ingenious machinery, and cooks perfectly conversant with their use, to say nothing of the expense. What may be accomplished by future generations we will not at present venture to speculate upon; we know what can actually be done by any one determined to cook every thing with gas at any cost, but it is too much to think of its universal adoption at present, instead of the usual methods. It will be interesting, however, to describe some of the experiments that have been made with success. The subject is at least amusing, and is really deserving of attention, even should its usefulness prove as limited as we fear it will ultimately be found to be. Notwithstanding what we have just said, it is fair to observe with respect to the flame of gas procured from the gas works, that its regularity, the facility with which it can be obtained and conducted to anj- spot required, imd the great nicetj- with which it can be adjusted, in a single jet, or a series of jets in a line, a circle, or several concentric circles, or any other figure, give it a superiority over every kind of lamp, and might almost tempt one to think that methods may some day be invented for applying it with success to culi- nary purposes with great advantage of convenience on some occasions, if not of economy. V Fig 68& lS| 4739. To boil with </as on a small scale is obviously extremely easy ; 'I ' I nothing more is necessary than to make the flame play against the kggj^^s// bottom of the vessel,.//;/. 680., which will be best if constructed on the II \f"~" I principle of the Rumford tea-kettle described in p. 70(;. It will be best ■ssdSii^ •' to have several jets of flame with sei)arate stop-cocks, and then the boil- JJLLiM mfiy i,e regulated by .shulting or opening some of them. Stewing I J Te(|uires only less hont, and of course less flame. Already gas flame is found e.\iremely useful in taverns and similar places for warmmg liquids and keepiug them hot. Tlie flame is nmde to jilay under a conical vessel,.^fli. 687., which is surrounded by a cylindrical one, to confine the heat round the sides of the inner