(.Chap. VI. 427 FISH. iJake of Windermere in Westmoreland; these are nine or ten inches in length. Being ^considered as a rarity, this fish is often preserved potted. Its figure is rather more slender tlthan that of the trout. There are several varieties; that of Wales is difi'ereat from the vcharr of the laEes of Westmoreland. StTBSECT. 7. — The Grayling (Salmo tht/mallus. Linn.). 2226. This fish is not met with in the rivers near I^ondon, and seldom in the south of ^England ; but, being an alpine fish, delighting in rivers with rocky bottoms, it abounds :nn the rivers of Derbyshire, Wales, the Severn, Wye, and Trent. In shape it resembles lithe trout, but it is rather longer and more slender, being generally about sixteen inches iin length. It is much esteemed as a table fish for the delicacy of its flesh, which is firm, I white, and of a fine flavour. It is considered in the highest season in the depth of winter. \When first taken out of the water, it has a very peculiar smell resembling thyme, said uto be occasioned by its feeding upon water thyme. As the trout is a spring and summer li&sh, the grayling may be considered an autumnal and winter fish. It has been supposed iito be migratory, but Sir H. Davy has shown that it cannot bear even brackish water. SuBSECT. 8. — The Gwinead {Salmo lavaretus, Linn.). 2227. This is said to constitute an intermediate tribe between the trout and the liaerring; and, like the latter, it dies the instant it is taken out of the water. It has been c3alled the fresh-water herring. Like the charr it is an inhabitant of lakes in high iimountainous regions, and in summer approaches the shores in vast shoals in search of I'^'ood. It abounds in the lakes of Wales and.Westmoreland, and is taken by nets. It is iiaearly a foot in length, but is considered as an insipid fish. The poorer classes salt thhem. SuBSECT. 9. — 77(6 Pike (Esox lucius. Linn.). 2228. The pike is styled by Walton the "tyrant of the fresh waters," as the salmon is '■'the king." It is found abundantly in most of the European lakes, particularly in the naorthern parts; and although it has been disputed whether it is indigenous in England, u'et it is the opinion of our best naturalists that there is sufficient proof of its being a naative. Its usual colour is a pale olive grey, deepest on the back, and marked on the siiides by several yellowish spots or patches ; the abdomen white, slightly spotted with hblack ; and its mouth is furnished with a prodigious number of teeth. The size of the E3nglish pike is considerable. Instances have been known of their weighing forty [>.)ounds, measuring three feet in length ; but in Lapland and Russia they attain the f; ize of eight feet. The pike is highly prolific, and their multiplication is immense in Itihe northern parts of Russia and Siberia, where they are taken in the greatest plenty. Hand constitute an article of commerce, being prepared by salting and drying for export- lt;tion. The voracity of this fish is notorious. It subsists on other fish, but will also devour frrogs, rats, serpents, and other reptUes, and even the young of aquatic fowl. It is also r elated that it will sometimes bite the noses of cattle who come to drink, as well as the [; lands of persons who put them into the water where it is kept; but stories respecting its I 'oracity have been exaggerated. It is a remarkable, as well as a fortunate, circumstance, 1 hat in the summer months, when the fry of other fish are so numerous, the digestive f lunctions of this fish are rather in a torpid state, by which its voracity is diminished. It S3 very long lived ; Pennant mentions one ninety years old. They are occasionally kept nn ponds, but are expensive to maintain, as they require much food, and are destructive "0 other fish. The flesh is of a good quality, but it is a dry fish ; and when it makes a good dish, it S3 much indebted to stuffing and sauce. If small, they will do fried ; but if large, they irre best roasted. The pike of the Medway, which feed chiefly on smelts, are of excel- i2nt flavour, and that of Hornsea Weir in Norfolk is much esteemed. In the time of :'.idward I. this fish was scarce in England, and was only introduced at great feasts, its nrice being higher than that of salmon, and ten times that of turbot. The terms of pike and jack refer only to the age of the fish, the latter name being iimployed where it has not attained more than three pounds in weight, or more than wenty-four inches in length. It is stated by Sir John Sinclair as a fact which ought to vie better known, that it is dangerous to swallow the bones of this fish, as they are sharp, innd of a texture so peculiarly hard, that they will not dissolve in the stomach. SuBSECT. 10. — The Carp (Cyprinus carpio. Linn.). 222!). The carp is found in rivers and ponds; but they appear to prefer slow and stag- want waters. Their usual length in this country is from twelve to eighteen inches, but