Book VIII. 594 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. the roots arc well washed, and the tops cut off, they should be scraped, that the outer rind may be t.iken off • they are then sliced, and boiled till they .ire soft. The liquor is squeezed out from them by some kind of press, and it is boiled with hops, in the proportion of six ounces of hops to nine gallons of juice. This is next worked with yeast in the usual way. The roots will keep during most of the winter, if put into a cool place J'en pounds of the root should afford a gallon of juice ; but if fifteen pounds isallowed, the ale will he strong Two pounds of treacle to a firkin will be an improvement; or one-third malt and two-thirds mangel wurzei may be used as still better. 33.53. Spruce beer.—This name is given to a very wholesome effervescing beer made from molasses and the extract of the spruce fir. Brown spruce beer is prepared in the following manner : — Add to eighteen gallons of boiling water from twelve to fourteen pounds of molasses, and from fourteen to sixteen ounces of extract of spruce, commonly called essence of spruce. Sufler the mixture to cool, and when lukewarm add to it one pint of yeast, and ferment the mixture. In warm weather, less yeast will suffice. While the fermentation is going on, remove the yeast by skimming, and when the fermentative process begins to become languid, which usually happens in two days, let the beer be put into stone bottles, and the corks tied down with packthread. Sugar is preferable to molasses, and if malt wort of an ordinary strength be substituted for the water, a spruce beer of a very superior flavour is obtained. Some ferment it in a cask before bottling it. Spruce beer is in fact a treacle or sugar beer flavoured with essence of spruce instead of hops. White spruce beer is made in a similar manner, by substituting for molasses white or brown sugar. This drink is considered as an anti-scorbutic ; and in cold countries, ships that intend to brew their own spruce beer should carry the yeast in bladders or closed casks. 3354. Most of the above-mentioned hinds of beer, though extremely usefid as cheap substitutes, and extremely wholesome, will not be considered, in general, as equal to good beer made from malt and hops only ; yet when well made, the difference is less than most persons might imagine, and the economy is very material. Great care should be taken not to suffer them to become sour, by keeping them in a very cool place, as beer in the least acid is extremely prejudicial to health. Sect. VIII. management of the beer-cellab, and stobing of beek. 3353. In order that the temperature of the cellars in which malt liquors, as well as others are kept, may be as uniform as possible, vaults are constructed for this purpose under- ground, as the changes of heat from the seasons are observed not to operate beyond a very few feet below the surface of the earth. This attention is the more necessarj' for beer, as this liquor soon comes to a state of fermentation by a heat above 55°, sufficiently great to exhaust its remaining fermentibility, and then it will become vapid and sour, for the reasons which have been already stated. If, on the other hand, the temperature of the cellar should ever descend to the freezing point, and the beer should become frozen, it will be separated into distinct substances ; the water and mucilaginous part will pass into the state of ice, and its small portion of spirit will collect in the centre, where, even if it should remain perfect till the returning heat again dissolve the ice, the other parts of the liquor never again combine with it in the same homogeneous fluid which it was before, its flavour is totally lost, and it remains fit only for distillation, or to be converted into alegar, a kind of vinegar. 3356. The ancients used a very simple method for preserving their liquors from change of temperature. They kept them in large earthenware vessels holding several gallons, which they placed in holes dug in the earth, thus burying them beneath the surface until the liquor was sufficiently meliorated by age ; and with us store vats are sometunes sunk in the ground ; but there are inconveniences attending this on account of leakage. 3357. Great attention is paid to the construction of cellars in various parts of Europe, particularly the north, and if more care was taken in this respect here, much would be saved of the liquor that is now spoiled, and much of the sickness prevented which is caused by the use of acid liquors, which lay the foimdation of more diseases than most persons suppose. 3358. Malt liquors owe more of their effects to the carbonic acid gas united with tliem than wines; and if it be so necessary to prevent this gas from escaping from brisk wines, we should bestow the same, if not more, attention upon ale and beer, if we wish to drink them in perfection. The confinement of the carbonic acid is the chief circumstance necessary for the preservation of malt liquors, after the requisite care has been taken of their fermentation. 3359. From the time that air comes in contact with beer, the latter proceeds more or less towards acetification ; and for this reason, when the consumption is not sufficient to ex- haust a large cask in a few days, the beer should be kept in smaller casks, proportioned to the weekly use of the family; for when part of the beer is drawn off, the air must come in contact with the whole of its upper surface, which, as casks are generally laid on