860 HOUSEHOLD DETAILS CONNECTED WITH COOKERY. Book XII. added, the Pluck, -which includes the liver, lights, heart; sweetbreads, of which one is called the throat sweetbread, and is the largest of the two, the other the wfadpipe sweet- bread. 4834. Sheep, Jig. 764—I. Leg ; 2. Loin (best end) ; 3. Chump end of the loin ; 4. Neck (best end); 5. Scrag; 6. Shoulder ; 7. Breast. The loins not separated form what is termed the saddle of mutton. 4835. The lamb is usually divided into four parts, called fore and hind quarters. Each fore quarter consists of a shbulder, with part of the neck and breast. Each hind quarter consists of a leg and loin. By the target of lamb is meant the ribs, when the shoulder is separated from them. The lamb's head is generally sold with the appurtenances; in which last are compre- hended the liver, lights, heart, suet, and melts. The fry of the lamb contains lambstones, sweetbreads, and skirts, with a part of the liver. 4836. The hog, see Jig. 765 1. The sparerib ; 2. Hands ; 3. Spring ; 4. Fore loin ; 5. Hind loin ; 6. The leg. The head and the haslet must also be mentioned ; the latter includes the liver, kidneys, and skirts. The chltterlins and guts are cleaned for sau- sages. A porker is a small pig fed for eating fresh, and not for curing. Of a bacon pig, the legs are reserved for curing, and when cured are called hams; when the shoulder blade and bones are separated from the meat and cured, it is called bacon. The bones, with part of the meat left on them, are divided into spareribs, gris- kins, and chines. SuBSECT. 2. — Choice of Meat, Fish, and Poultry. 4837. Beef. — The grain of ox beef, when good, is loose, the meat red, and the fat inclining to yellow. Cow beef, on the contrary, has a closer grain, a whiter fat, but meat scarcely as red as that of ox beef. Inferior beef, which is meat obtained from ill-fed animals, or from those which had become too old for food, may be known by a hard skinny fat, a dark red lean, and, in old animals, a line of a homy texture running through the meat of the ribs. When meat pressed by the finger rises up quickly, it may be con- sidered as that of an animal which was in its prime; when the dent made by pressure returns slowly, or remains visible, the animal had probably passed its prime, and the meat consequently must be of inferior qualit3\ 4838. Veal should be delicately white, though it is often juicy and well flavoured when rather dark in colour. Butchers, it is said, bleed calves purposely before killing them, with a view to make the flesh white ; but this also makes it dry and flavourless. On examining the loin, if the fat enveloping the kidney be white and firm-looking, the meat will probably be prime and recently killed. Veal will not keep as long as an older meat, especially in hot or damp weather; when going, the fat becomes soft and moist, the meat flabby and spotted, and somewhat porous like sponge. Large over-grown veal is inferior to small, delicate, yet fat veal. The fillet of a cow calf is known by the udder attached to it, and by the softness of the skin ; it is preferable to the veal of a bull calf 4839. Mutton. — The meat should be firm and close in grain, and red in colour, the fat white and firm. Mutton is in its prime when the sheep is about five years old, though it is often killed much younger. If too young, the flesh feels tender when pinched ; if too old, on being pinched it wrinkles up, and so remains. In young mutton, the fat readily separates; in old, it is held together by strings of skin. In sheep diseased of the rot, the flesh is very pale-coloured, the fat inclining to yellow, the meat appears loose from the bone, and if squeezed, drops of water ooze out from the grains ; after cooking, the meat drops clean away from the bones. Wether mutton is preferred to that of the ewe; it may be known by the lump of fat on the inside of the thigh. 4840. Lamb. — This meat will not keep long after it is killed. The large vein in the neck is bluish in colour when the fore quarter is fresh, green when becoming stale. In