Chap. V. ON THE MAKING OF CYDER. 65.^ verted, in order that it may, by the slow fermentation (see " Fermentation" and " IBrewing "), be converted into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. 3689. After fermentation, nothing more is required than to bottle it forthwith, and to keep it in as cool and uniform a temperature as possible for a twelvemonth or more, that it may ripen; after which it may be brought into a state fit for drinking by being placed for a week or fortnight in a warm situation. For sweet barrelled cyder, the cask must be stummed, and then filled with the liquor; the bung must be accurately secured, and the temperature kept as cool as possible. 3690 T/ie term slummine: signifies burning sulphur in the cask, for the purpose of checking fermentation; it is thus performed: —Take a strip of canvas cloth, about twelve inches long, and two broad ; let it be dipped into melted brimstone; when this match is dry, let it be lighted, and suspended from the bung of a cask in which there are a few gallons of cyder, until it is burnt out. The cask must remain stopped for an hour or more, and be then rolled to and fro, to incorporate the fumes of the match with the cyder ; after which it may be filled, when all fermentation will be suspended. Sometimes this process is resorted to for the purpose of giving an additional flavour to the cyder. To effect this, some powdered ginger, cloves, &c., may be strewed on the match when it is made. The burning of ttiese ingredients with the sulphur will convey somewhat of their fragrance to the wliole cask of cyder ; but to do this advantageously, it must be performed as soon as the vinous fermentation is fully perfected. Should the fennentation return, this process must be repeated. The complete cessation of the fermentation may be known by observing whether a candle held in the bung-hole will burn. So long as there is carbonic gas escaping, the candle will not burn. For strong dry cyder no stumming must be employed, but the cask being filled to within an inch of the top, must be secured with a bung, having a hole bored through it with a round file. Into this hole, after the bung has been driven into the cask, a piece of tobacco pipe is to be inserted and secured with a little melted wax, taking care that its lower end does not dip into the liquor. A very gentle fermentation will take place; by which the sugar will be wholly converted into spirit in the course of the succeeding sum- mer, and the cyder will then be in the state of a dry wine, and wUl undergo no farther change as long as it is kept in perfectly close vessels. When the cyder-maker has succeeded, by successful management, in preventing the acetous fermentation, his cyder wLU require little farther attention than filling up the vessels every two or three weeks, to supply the waste by the slow fermentation, until the beginning of the succeeding March : at which time it may be reasonably expected he will find his liquor bright, pure, and in a state for final racking, which should be done in fine weather. 3G91. The casks into which the liquor is put whenever racked off should alwaj's have been thoroughly scalded, and dried again ; and each should want several gallons of being full, to expose a larger surface to the air. New casks, though they are ever so well sea- soned, are apt to give a disagreeable taste to the cyder: boiling them with pommage is useful. Casks that have contained spirits are best for preserving cyder. 3692. Should the above precautions be neglected, the consequence will probably be, that the acetous fermentation will take place. When, however, this has been suffered to come on, several methods have been tried to check it, sometimes with a degree of success, at other times unavailingly. One of them has been to pour in a bottle of French brandy, half a gallon of spirit extracted from the lees of cyder, or a pailful of old, good cyder ; but this will not succeed if the cyder should continue to be kept in a close warm cellar. If removed to a cooler place, the cyder may be preserved. Another remedy is the stumming described above. These remedies are innocent; but it is not safe to employ any preparation of lead, as has been done formerly. 3693. If the cyder, after being racked off into casks, remains bright, nothing more is to be done to it ; blit if a scum collects on the surface, it is a proof of fermentation commencing again, and it must be immediately racked off into other casks to check this, which must be repeated as often as a new fermentation appears. The strength of cyder is some- what reduced by being frequently racked off. 3694. Fining will he %tnnecessary, if the above directions are attended to; the liquor will become spontaneously perfectly clear and bright, which will not only be a saving of farther trouble, but such liquor wiU keep longer unimpaired than that which has been fined. Should, however, the cyder-maker, notwithstanding his care, be disappointed, he may use some of the ordinary substances for this purpose, as isinglass, whites of eggs, &c.: but all these deprive the liquor of the greatest part of its tannin, upon which its durability essentially depends. If fining is necessary, it may be thus performed : a pound of isinglass is soaked for ten or twelve hours in cold water, and afterwards dissolved in about five gallons of cyder, and well incorporated with a whisk. About a quart of this is sufficient for a hogshead of cyder, and it must be stirred and mixed in the cask ; but the whites of a dozen eggs, beat up along with the shells in a quart of the liquor, is thought by some to perform the operation with more certainty. 369.5. Bottling the cyder. — Cyder in general will be fit for bottling in about a month: but the best period is when it has arrived at the greatest perfection in the cask, which is when it is two years old ; it will then soon become brisk and sparkling. As it is usually made, it will retain a considerable portion of sweetness in the cask to the end of