88 ON WARMING DOMESTIC EDIFICES. Book II. anj body, but tliat, after having spent twelve winters in that country, he had learned to know the advantages of rooms warmed by stoves. The -writer of this article assisted him in erecting several stoves in his house at Brompton : but it must be observed that they were all of brick or earthenware, and that he considered iron stoves as pernicious. He remarks in one of his essays, that, " it is a question often discussed In this country, whether living in a warm room in winter be, or be not, detrimental to health : " and it is to be regretted, that no one, since his time, has applied to this subject that proportion of science and experience which its importance demands. This is not the place to enter upon such a discussion, which would be much more difficult than most persons are aware of, as may be gathered from the conflicting opinions of various persons. For instance, Count Rumford states, " that the Swedes and Russians live in very warm houses during their long and severe frosts, yet no people are more strong and healthy than tliey are, nor are there any less liable to catarrhs and cou- suraptions." On the contrary, Mr. Tredgold quotes a statement by the benevolent Howard in these words: " In a conversation with the physician of the military hospital at Moscow, on my observing that the windows of the wards were shut, he answered, almost all our disorders are in the winter, for the Russians inclose themselves in hot rooms, and dislike the fresh air, even before the cold months commence." We may observe that it is impossible to determine upon the propriety of the practice of one country by that of another, so much depending upon climate, habit, and various local cir- cumstances. The climate of Russia is very different from ours. They have a constancy and duration in their cold weather, which we have not; and this enables them to dress accord- ingly. The changeable nature of our climate forbids our imitating them in many respects. 380. This great variableness in the nature of our climate, furnishes perhaps one of (he best arguments in favour of our cliimney fire-places, by which we can more readily alter the temperature of our apartments than by any other method. It is one of the chief characters of stoves that they give a very regular heat; but as it is difficult to change this in a short time if required, they may not be found so suitable to our climate. In this country we often experience the warmth of several different climates in the course of a single day. Should we come into a room with an open fire, and find the apartment too hot, in a very few minutes we can, by taking off some fire, make the room cooler ; to say nothing of opening a door and window : if the room should not be warm enough, the fire may be stirred up, or more coals added : a good fire may soon be made. We could not effect these changes so easily with any kind of stove. Should we with them let out the air of the room that has been warming very slowly, we cannot get it up again to its former temperature, but in a considerable time. We feel some benefit from a fire the moment it is kindled: not so with the stove: it must be lighted long before it gives sufficient warmth to the room. 381. But there is another ciixumstance seldom thought of; an open fire does not, as we have stated, warm the air of the room directly, by passing through it; the air is only warmed slowly by means of the walls of the room : therefore while we feel, beneficially and agreeably, the radiant heat of the fire, we are breathing all the while, a cool atmosphere. In a stove, on the contrary, this can never be the case : it is the nature of a stove to warm the air itself before we can feel the benefit of it, and we then breathe air considerably heated, often equal to that of a hot climate. This is apt to relax the body, and without good management may often prove injurious. Should this air be dry, as well as hot, it is ten to one but we get a cold should we enter from a damp air, owing to the rapid absorp- tion of moisture from our clothes, an effect which will not happen in the cool air of a room warmed by radiant heat. Should this warm air have been produced by an iron apparatus, we have already shown how unpleasant and unwholesome it general!}' is. But the advan - tages of our chimneys appear most striking in the case of ventilation, which with them goes on of itself, without any thought about it. AVhile a fire is burning, a change of the air must happen ; but with a stove, ventilation stands nearly still, and it is extremely difficult to effect, as it must be accomplished by other means : at least it is more difficult than is usually consistent with the knowledge that may be expected from ordinary servants, and which will prevent its being performed well without much better superin- tendance. We shall say nothing here of the agreeable appearance of a fire, since this may be habit and prejudice, and other objects may be fftmd equally agreeable : nor of its accessibility, since this is perhaps counterbalanced by its danger. 382. Much has been said, as wc ha ve just observed, respecting the unequal manner in which a room is warmed by afire, and of the perfect equality of the temperature in every part of a room where a stove is used. This is perhaps the strongest point in favour of stoves, and, to invalids, is no doubt of the highest importance. Where the air is not injured by a stove, and the temperature preserved with great uniformity, there can be little doubt but these advantages are considerable where the lungs and state of health demand great care. But for persons in good health, this perfect equality of temperature does not appear so desirable.. It docs not exist in nature. The sun warms as unequally, and the warmth of his rays, with the cool freshness of the air, are agreeable and not imwholesome sensa-