909 Chap. I. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. as the other consumes. Bake it till done.—N. B. Never put water into a meat pie, but always gravy, as the water dissolves the nutritious parts of the meat, and leaves it taste- less, so that the whole of the savour is in the extracted gravy. 5237. Gibli-tpie. — Clean and lialf stew two or three sets of geese giblets; cut the leg into two, the wing and neck in three, and the gizzard into four pieces; preserve the liquor, and set by the giblets till cold, as the heat of the giblets would spoil the paste which covered them. When cold, put them into the dish, season and salt them, and cover them with a good butter and flour paste. (See " Pastry:") Cover the surface with the yolk of egg, and bake it an hour and a half in a moderately heated oven. Take away the fat from the liquor in which the giblets were stewed, and in a clean stew-pan set it over the fire with a little flour and water, seasoned with black pepper and salt, and flavoured with lemon-juice; add a few drops of browning, and when hot, pass it through the tammy or sieve, and afterwards, by means of a funnel, into the pie. Into a giblet pie some put a beef steak, or remnants of cold game or poultry. 5238. Pheasant pie. — This is to be eaten cold. When you have a superfluity of game, pick and empty a couple of pheasants, clean the insides well, and pepper them thoroughly. Stuff the insides with a bunch of parsley, an onion or two, some trimmings of mushrooms, and trufiies if you have them. Put a piece of the fat of ham on the breasts of each, and half roast them. When removed from the fire, empty their insides of the herbs, which stew with some veal broth for their gravy. Cover them with paste, and bake them with the precautions before directed. In the same manner proceed to make pies of moor- game and partridges. Observe to press the birds flat, and bake them with the backs uppermost. 5239. Pigeon pie When pigeons are plentiful and cheap, you may afford a couple to make the gravy for the pie. When emptied and washed, divide these two pigeons, and mash them, bones and all, in a mortar ; put some parsley, trimmings of mushrooms, and trufiies if you have any, with green onions and some salt, into butter, to stew gently; when tender, put in the mashed pigeons, and when they have well sweated, moisten with some veal broth, so as to possess, after the gravy is completed, rather more than a pint, which strain and skim off the fat. Put into a pie-dish, sheeted with paste, a veal cutlet, and over it six pigeons, both well seasoned; distribute some egg balls (see " Force- meats "), and fill up the dish with part of the prepared gravy ; then apply a paste cover of a good thickness. Bake it, and as the gravy exhales fill up with the remainder.— jy.B. This pie requires to be well seasoned and eaten hot. K you make a pigeon pie to be eaten cold, you may cover the bottom, sides, and top with slices of bacon, as, when cold, the fat may be removed. If you prefer beef-steak to veal at the bottom, it may be substituted. 5240. Trout pie This is to be eaten cold, and is nearly as good as potted char. Take a dozen of small trouts, from a quarter to half a pound; empty them, and detach the fins. Parboil them in salt and water, and lay them on a hair sieve to drain, and put them in a very slack oven for a few minutes to become dry. When they are taken out, brush them over, inside and out, with clarified butter, and have ready a mixture of salt, black pepper, cayenne, and allspice, with which season them likewise both inside and out. Four some clarified butter at the bottom of the earthen dish, and arrange the trout in it; then pour in more of the butter until they are covered. Set them in a moderate oven for half an hour, or till they are sufficiently done, and sufffer them to cool. In this manner they will keep some time. 5241. Eel pie When the eels are skinned and cut into pieces about two inches in length, bl.anch them, by pouring on them suflicient boiling cyder with some salt, or if this be not at hand, some vinegar, salt, and water of the same temperature. This hardens them, and extracts a portion of their oil; when cold, take them out, and place them in a sheeted pie-dish ; add a little salt, shred lemon-peel, and black pepper. Cover them with a sauce composed of equal parts of veal gravy and thin cream. Let it bake gently, and the eels will eat firm. SuBSECT. 3 Savoury Patties. 5242. 0/ savoury patties the first consideration is the pastry, which should be made according to the directions already given under the head Puff paste. The tin moulds being lined with the paste, and the covers neatly cut out (the surface of which must be brushed over with beaten egg), pieces of crumb of bread suflicient to support the cover are put into each, and they are baked in a moderately brisk oven until they become of a yellowish brown. If the oven be too hot, they should be covered with a sheet of paper. When baked, the cover is taken off, the bread removed, and the inside filled with some savoury composition. The cover is replaced, and the patties are ready to be served. Sometimes they are made without covers; if this method be adopted, it is necessary to make a depression or hollow in the middle suflacient to contain the savoury composition. 5243. Lobster patties. — The meat of boiled lobsters is set over the fire with some strong veal consomme, a little flour to thicken, some eschalot chopped fine, an anchovy pounded, and a little grated lemon-peel. After these and a seasoning of cayenne pepper are put in, the whole must simmer together for five or six minutes, and when taken off the fire, some lemon-juice must be added and stirred in well. The patties are then filled, and served hot. Oyster patties are made in the same way, the oysters being previously chopped. 5244. Patties of ham and chicken finely mixed may be made of a lean boiled ham and the breasted and white meat of roasted fowl: to these are added eschalot, a slice or two of trufiSes stewed till tender in wine or gravy, and afterwards chopped fine, some veal con- somme, a little cream, cayenne pepper, salt, and flour to thicken the gravy. After sim-