616 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. been on a voyage to India is the best Madeira, for inferior wines have been sometimes supplied for this speculation ; and it has been discovered lately, that by keeping the wine in a certain warm temperature, particularly with agitation, it is nearly as much improved as by a sea voyage, and in a much shorter time. Accordingly, it is the prac- tice at present to ripen the wine in stoves in the island, where it is kept in a heat of 90°. Madeira, being a strong wine naturally, has, least of all, occasion for the addition of brandy; yet it is the constant practice to add some of this spirit previous to exportation, which time incorporates. In other respects, the first sorts are very little sophisticated ; but the inferior kinds, of which there is a large proportion, are made up with almonds and various additions. 3465. The English wine-merchants who reside in Madeira consign their wines to agents in London, from whom it may be had genuine ; and there is no other way of getting it good ; but the great demand of late is said to have exhausted the island of all the finest old wine. Madeira should not be kept in a cold underground cellar, but in a warm part of a dwelling-house. To have it in perfection, it should be kept several years in wood, and nearly as much in bottle. 3466. A Malmsey wine of the first quality is also produced in Madeira from the Malvasia gi-apes, which are kept till over ripe and partly shrivelled, by hanging a month longer than the other grapes. This wine was much in request in England before the use of tea, when a few glasses were drunk after a meat breakfast ; it is now little imported. 3467. Part of the red grapes are employed in making a wine called tinta, which ie extremely astringent, and, when new, resembles Burgundy; but when it has been kept some time, it becomes pale, like tawny port, or even paler, and acquires in part a rich Madeira flavour. 3468. All the best wines are grown on the south side of the island of Madeira ; those from the north side are very inferior, and are chiefly used for distilling brandy, which is not very good ; these are too often exported instead of the best wines ; and they alone, well brandied, are sent to Russia. But even on the south side the wines are not all of the same quality ; about one-half is inferior to the rest, but are usually passed off as some of the best. Madeira wines have lately got much out of fashion, and the prejudice against them has been considerably increased by a supposed discovery that they contain a little more acid than sherry, which is now generally preferred; but this opinion is disputed, having been derived from the inferior Madeiras, So difficult is it to distinguish all these varieties of wine, that a large portion of the inferior Madeiras are now sold for sherry ; and even the best Cape wine passes for Madeira. It is stated in Holman's Travels, that the wine trade of Madeira is rapidly declining ; and that in consequence the planting of coffee has become very general in the island. 3469. The Azores produce a Malmsey, called vino passado, and also a di"y wine; but both are inferior to Madeira wines. 3470. The Canary Islands formerly produced a great deal of sweet wine, which was formerly imported into England. 347 L Teneriffe has the best wines of all these islands ; what is called Vidonia is a dry wine much resembling Madeira. The Malmsey of Teneriffe is excellent: common Teneriffe wine is inferior. The wines of these islands were formerly in England called Sack, as well as sherry and Malaga. Orotavia is a wine so called from the port where it is shipped. SuBSECT. 6. — Wines of Italy, Sicily, and Greece. 3472. Before our intimate connection with Portugal in the wine trade, some wines were brought from Italy and Greece, but at present very little is imported from thence. Notwithstanding the favourable soil and climate of these countries, the wines produced there, with a very few exceptions, are of an inferior quality. 3473. The wines of Italy are all made for home consumption only ; and though many good wines are produced by land proprietors for their own use, the greater part of the ordinary wines are execrably bad, principally owing to the careless mode in which they are manufactured. In Tuscany, however, more attention has been paid both to the culti- vation of the vines and to the vintage than in the other Italian states, which is much owing to the-care of the Grand Dukes. In the villas of Italian noblemen some good wines may be found, but these are not exported. The sweet Muscadine wine of Monte Pul- ciano is the most celebrated, and the red Muscadine of Alcatico: but the Tuscan wines, upon the whole, do not equal those of Spain and Portugal. 3474. The volcanic soils round Naples are particularly favourable for the vine; and the exquisite Lachryma Christi produced on Vesuvius is well-known ; but the best variety of rod wine grown at Galetta, having a rich Muscadine flavour and perfume, is very rare: an inferior kind is sold from Torre del Greco and other places in the vicmity; a