Book I. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDEJ^CE. are required. It is the only timber that can be depended upon for ground joists, except the soil is particularly dry ; and it is not liable to be attacked by worms, from the gallic and tannic acids which it contains. It is also used in window and door sills, and in all such parts as are very liable to be decayed by the weather or damp. It was formerly much more extensively used here before fir was introduced, and may be seen in the internal finishings and carvings of ancient houses. The varieties of foreign oak are very considerable, and some of them are imported. An American species brought from Canada is much inferior to English oak, being light, spongy, and not durable. Oak is likewise brought from Norway. A kind of oak called wainscot is now much employed in finishing and furniture ; this is of a lighter colour, and comes down the Rhine, being imported from Riga. Oak flourishes best in clayey soils; and it is remarked, that the slower the growth, the more durable is the wood. , 133. The terms fir and deal are applied to the wood of the pine tribe, which is particularly the " builder's timber," as oak is that of the ship carpenter. The name of^r is applied to logs which are only squared with the axe, and to the various scantlings sawed out of them for girders, joists, roofing-timbers, &c. When the wood is sawed into the form of planks these are called deals; whence this name, which properly belongs only to the form, is often applied to the material itself. Vast forests of pine exist in the north of Europe, on both sides of the Baltic, in Norway, Sweden, Russia, Prussia, Poland, and Gei-many, from whence the timber is shipped for us in the ports of the Baltic and Norway. The best fir is known to us by the name of Dantzic, Memel, Riga, &c., from the ports where it is shipped under the name of spars and masts ; and the best deals are brought in vast quantities from Christiana in Norway, as well as other places in Scandinavia, 134. There are two kinds of pine loood principally in common use; the red or yellow, and the white. The first is the wood of the Pinus sylvestris, or common Scotch fir, which, containing a great deal of turpentine, is the most durable ; this, when sawn into deals is used in work where strength and durability are particularly required; for instance, the best deal floors are laid with yellow deal. Battens are a narrow kind of flooring-boards. Planks are very wide and thick deals, used for various purposes. White deal is the wood of the Pinus Abies, or spruce fir, and contains less turpentine than the yellow : hence it is not so durable ; but being easier to work, and less liable to warp, it is particularly useful to the joiner, and is also the cheapest. A great deal of Scotch fir grows in the north of Scotland, where it is sawed up for use in that country, but this does not come into the English market. A few other varieties of fir are grown in various parts of Britain, and are employed in agricultural erections, but as they are not common in the building branch, we need not enumerate them. We may, however, except the larch, Pinus larix, which is now extensively planted in Scotland, and proves an extremely durable, as well as beautiful wood. 135. The American pine {Pinus Strobtts) brought here from Canada, is light, soft, and of a clean grain, belonging to the white pines : hence it is very useful as deals in many parts of joiners' work, particularly as it may be had of exftaordinary widths ; but it is not strong when used as timber. 136. Other kinds of wood occasionally used in building will be described under " Materials for Furniture." 137. Preservation of wood. It is not only necessary that timber of the proper kind should be employed, but that it should be well seasoned by drying, before it is put into the building, and no part containing sap should be admitted. Neglect of this frequently is the occasion of the disease called the dry rot, which is a decay of the wood, connected with the growth of a minute plant belonging to the tribe of fungi, which finding there a favourable situation, spreads with wonderful rapidity, and feeding upon the juice of the wood, reduces the fibres to an extremely brittle state, so as to be useless as asupport; and if this be not stopped, the rot will in time seize upon great part of the wood-work through the building, and cause its destruction. As the growth of these plants is promoted by confined air, a free circulation of air prevents it; it is proper, therefore, in buildings of considerable magnitude, to provide for this by having small openings in the wall to allow the air to circulate freely round the principal timbers : these apertures are closed on the outside by iron gratings. When the dry rot has commenced its ravages, these can only be put a stop to by cutting out every part in the least aff'ected, and replacing them by new and sound materials. It is also useful to char all wood so introduced, and to wash it and all the neighbouring places with a solution of sulphate of iron. Timber to be used for building is, in some cases, impregnated with a solution of corrosive sublimate, according to Kyan's patent, which is said to prevent this disease; but as this is expensive, it is best not to trust to this or any other preventive. 138. It is dvsirahle for durability that there should lie as little woodwork as possible in walls ; since, if any of the strength is made to depend upon wood, should tiiis decay, the failure of the wall must be the consequence. ISO.. In all modern brick houses, a quantity of limber called bomi Iitnier is let into tlie