1093 Chap. X. XI. WASHING BY STEAM.— MARKING LINEN. oue side to admit the bag, and theu is closed firmly. The interior surface of the box is grooved to let the water out when pressed. A cover that fits the inside of the box is put in over the bag, and a strong pressure is applied by a lever to the cover, or by a rack and pinion. The pressing down the cover forces the water out of the clothes, which thus receive less injury than by the usual twisting. Another wringing machine is represented as attached to the washing machme, Jig. 832. /, g, are fluted rollers for the clothes to go between, covered with several folds of flannel to give elasticity to the pressure, and prevent injury to the fabrics. The cylinders have toothed wheels on the end, and are moved round by a small pinion. It, turned by a winch. The cylinders are capable of being placed at a distance from each other suited to the several articles ; but the contrivance for this as well as the upright stand by which they are supported are here omitted. 6542. Another wringing apparatus, fig. is described in Loudon's " Cottage Architecture" as useful in small families. The articles to be wrung are taken out of the wash-tub, and being passed over the pin at a, the two ends are put through the hole of the twister, b, which is turned round by the spokes, c. The water drops into trough d, from which it runs off into a tub or other ves- sel, through the tube e. When small articles are to be wrung, they are put into a coarse hempen bag, which is then treated as above-mentioned. This machine does not wear the linen more than common wringing. CHAP. X. WASIUNG BT" STEAM. 6543. Washing by steam has met with little encouragement in England ; yet it has been practised many years ago, and has been employed with great success in France. It was first tried by Chaptal, a celebrated French chemist, and the process was improved by Cadet-de-Vaux and by Cui-andeau, and lastly by M. Bourgon de Layne. The process is very simple. The clothes are first soaked in a ley of potash, and then hung in a large vessel kept full of steam by a pipe communicating with a boiler. This vessel for the clothes must be steam-tight; and, on a small scale, a large cask will answer. After remaining a certain time in the steam, generally half an hour, the dirt becomes loosened, and little labour in a subsequent washing is sufficient to detach it by washing with soap. The saving of fuel and labour is thus very great, and the linen is rendered extremely white. It is stated in " L'Echo du Monde Savant," June 7, 1837, that blankets are washed by these means in Paris for a farthing a paii'. We have known washing by steam practised in a tradesman's family in London with perfect success. It should be stated that it will only answer for white articles, for the action of the steam is so powerful as to discharge the colour of dyed things. It is likewise necessary to observe that the linen should be suspended in the steam vessel in such a manner that it shall not come into contact with the suds that drain from it, which, in this case, would produce a bad colour diSicult to wash out. Also it is essential that no iron should be admitted in the apparatus, lest rust should come in contact with the linen. A large copper tea-kettle will produce steam enough for a moderate washing: and to fill with steam the vessel in which the clothes are put, it is necessary to leave an aperture open at first by which the common air may be driven out as the steam enters, and which should be shut as soon as the vessel is full of steam ; for it is to be observed that the vessel cannot be filled with steam, while, at the same time, it remains full of air ; the latter must be driven out that the steam may occupy its place. CHAP. XI. ' MAKKING LINEN. 6544. The marking of linen being connected with the business of the laundress, we shall introduce the subject in this place. Marking has usually been practised with the needle, and still must be for blankets and woollen articles, but linen and cottou can be 4 A 4