5G8 BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII. chemistry in Glasgow. By evaporating it to dryness, he found that it leaves beliind it a yellow-coloured residuum which has a sweet taste, dissolves readily in water, and becomes clammy, in appearance much like treacle ; this cannot be procured in a perfectly dry state. He considers it to contain a good deal of the peculiar kind of sugar called starch sugar, which is similar to the sugar of the grape, less sweet than cane-sugar, and which cannot be refined, though it may be granulated like granulated honey. Like the sugar of grapes, it ferments without the addition of yeast. We have already spoken of mucilage and starch also existing in the wort. The presence of mucilage with some gluten is shown by their being precipitated in flakes by the addition of alcohol or astringent matter. The mucilage is very apt to turn sour, though a certain portion of it is essential to fine ales. The exist- ence of some unaltered starch is proved by a solution of iodine dropped into the wort.pro- ducing a blue colour. SuBSECT. 2.— Boiling and Hopping. 3193. The next operation in brewing is to boil the sweet wort, prepared as above de- scribed, with the hops. The wort or extract from malt may be compared to the must or expressed juice of the grape, both containing a considerable quantity of the same kind of sugar; and in fact it would be possible to procure a fermented liquor from the wort, either without addition, or only by adding yeast: but there are several important difterences between the extract of malt and grape juice. Wort, besides being entirely deficient in the principle called tartar (which is found in the grape, and wliich will be mentioned when treating on wine,) contains a much smaller quantity of saccharine matter, in proportion to the ferment. In consequence of this comparative abundance of the fermenting principle, if the wort were made to ferment at once, without boiling, as the juice of the grape does, it would very soon go through the vinous stage, and pass into the acetous, and perhaps the putrefactive; become foxed, as the brewers express it, and we should then, instead of beer, have only an ill-smelling vinegar, an effect> which would be still farther increased by the large quantity of mucilage. 3194. The chief use, therefore, of boiling the wort is to get rid of some of this natural fer- ment or gluten and mucilage, which are held in solution in too great quantity. This the boil- ing effects upon the principle of coagulation : for the gluten is coagulated or curdled by boiling water, in the same manner as white of eggs, and is thus easily separated from it. This coagulation, and likewise that of the mucilage, is farther assisted by the addition of the hops, which, containing an astringent principle, has a powerful property in coagulating these substances. 3195. Another use in boiling the wort with hops is to unite to the former the bitter and aromatic principles contained in the latter, which are necessary to cover the sweet mawkish taste of the sweet wort by itself, and give that agreeable flavour for which malt liquors are esteemed. It may, perhaps, be supposed that a decoction of hops might be added to the wort without boiling : but as it is the boiling chiefly that effects the coagula- lation, this is necessary. 3196. A third reason sometimes alleged for boiling the wort is to evaporate part of the water, and thus render the wort stronger ; but this is only in cases where too much water has been employed through error, or in consequence of bad calculation, which it is very desirable to avoid. 3197. Wort, indeed, before fermentation, and after it, is extremely liable to acetify; and this renders brewing an operation of great delicacy, slight circumstances being sulBcient to mar its success, such as sudden changes of weather, or even thunder storms, to say nothing of the agency of witches, so much complained of in the olden time. The wort, therefore, should not remain long in the under-back, but should be transferred as quickly as possible into the copper to be boiled. 3198. Tills coagulation, called breaking by the brewers, is generally accomplishedhyhoil'mg about half an hour, or neai-ly an hour, according to circumstances, and it is known to be sufficient by the appearance of flocculent masses swimming about and collecting in the copper; these gradually increase as the ebullition is continued, and they consist of the gluten and mucilage of the wort, which from the dissolved state have become solid by the combined operation of the boiling water, and the astringent principle of the hops. When upon trial, by taking out a small quantity of the wort, it is found that the coagulation is complete, by the flaky masses subsiding to the bottom, and leaving the wort clear, the boiling is discontinued, and the wort is drawn oflF, in order to be cooled previously to fer- mentation. . As a proof of the utility of this operation of boiling, it is noticed, that if a quantity ot wort be fermented without being boiled, the fermentation continues much longer than an equal quantity that has been boiled, and that the first will produce a thin liquor that soon becomes acidulous, and which is not calculated for keeping. Such liquors wore probably made before the use of hops was known, and >vcrc required to be drunk very new.