ON FOOD. 418 Book VII. sun, it can be dried without salt. In northern countries, great quantities are thus laid up in store. The French consider skate as a very nutritious and excellent fish, and hold it in greater estimation than it is on this side of the channeL They send their boats to our fishing towns to purchase skate, particularly in Lent, and they preserve it fresh by keeping it covered with wet sand. Skate are taken in abundance all round the coasts of England and Scotland. There are several species found in our seas besides liaia batis or true skate, as the long-nosed skate, the ivhite skate, and the Homelyn ray, which are of bferior quality, though often crimped and sold for true skate. ' 2176. Skate gets in season in July, and continues so through autumn and the beginning of winter, but is not good in spring or early summer. " 2177. The Thornhack differs from the true skate in having large spines in its back, which are wanting in the latter. It does not grow to the size of the skate, and is con- sidered as rather inferior in quality; in other respects it is very similar. The thomback is taken in greatest abundance during spring and summer, because then they approach nearest the shore for the purpose of spawning; but their flesh is not so firm and fit for the table at this season as in November. The fishermen call the females Maids. SuBSECT. 19. — Striped Bed Mullet (Mullus surmuletus, Lmn.). 2178. The colour of this fish is an elegant rose-red tinged with olive, when on the back, and a silvery coat on the abdomen. They occur frecjuently on the Cornish coast, and are taken also on the coast of Sussex, but become rare more north. This fish was held in great esteem by the Romans, not only on account of its delicious flavour, but also from its beautiful colour. At present it is a fish in high request, the flesh being white, firm, and of a fine flavour. On our coasts it seldom exceeds fourteen inches in length. Mullets occur sometimes in profusion, and at other times are exceedingly scarce; they are mostly taken with trawl nets, which traverse the bottom of the sea. They appear in the fishmongers' shops nearly throughout the year, but most frequently in May and June, when they are in best condition. Notwithstanding that the usual habitat of this mullet is the sea, it occasionally ascends rivers. SuBSECT. 20. — Grey Mullet (Mugil Capita, Cuv.). 2179. The grey mullet, though bearing the same name, is altogether a different fish from the red. It is very plentiful on the sandy coasts of our island, and is observed to assemble in small shoals near the shores in the spring in quest of food, burrowing into the soft mud for worms, and leaving the trace of its head in the form of a round hole. Unlike the salmon they spawTi in the sea; but, like that fish, they ascend rivers for miles. When preparing for these expeditions, they are observed in shoals near the sur- face of the water, at which time the fishermen endeavour to avail themselves of the opportunity of surrounding them with their nets. The mullet is particularly abimdant on the south-east coast of England. It is considered a fine fish ; and the spawn is some- times made into an inferior kind of caviare, by drying and salting it. From its partiality to fresh water, this fish has been thought favourable for the experiment of keeping marine fish in fresh-water ponds ; and, accordingly, Mr. Arnold of Guernsey has fattened them prodigiously in this manner. Of all the salt-water fishes so introduced into ponds, the grey mullet seemed to be the most improved. StTBSECT. 21.— Tlie Herring {Clupea harengus, Linn.). 2180. This excellent fish is peculiar to the northern seas, and is well known to supply abundance of food, particularly to the poorer classes. The name herring is derived from the German heer, an army, which expresses the number they appear in. Herrings are met with in great plenty, from the highest latitudes, as low as the northern coast of France. They are also found in vast shoals on the coast of America, as low as Carolina ; and they are met with in the sea of Kamtschatka. 2181. The herring was supposed to be a. migrating fish, and that its chief rendezvous is the icy sea within the arctic circle, which swarms with insect food in greater abundance than warmer latitudes. Pennant and other authors have described the migration of tlio herring in a very circumstantial manner, which has been copied into numerous public- ations. Notwithstanding the almost universal belief, however, of the mipration of the herring from the northern regions to the south of Europe, and the detailed description of it, yet some of the best n.ituralists of tlie present day consider these accounts to be in most instances erroneous; and think it moft probable th.it tlie herring, like the mackerel and the sprat, during tlie winter montlis, inhabit the deepest parts of the sea, but at no great distance from the shore ; or plunge beneath the soft mud .it the bottom, from whence they rise in the spring season, and approach the shallower water, in order to deposit their spawn. It is thought that tlie northern migrations supposed by Pennant and others arc impracticable In tlie short period assigned to tlicni,