FRUITS USED AS FOOD IN BRITAIN. Chap. IX. 497 raisins, or dried grapes, that grow in, and arc bronglit from the Ionian Islands. The chief place from which they were formerly imported was the Morea or the Isthmus of Corinth, whence the name, corinths. converted into citrnnils. 2740. The island of Zante is the chief place from which currants are now brought; some are from Cephalonia and Ithaca. When they are collected in August from tlie vines, which grow quite low, they are spread out and dried in the sun, and then packed in casks quite close till they are wanted. They get thus so fixed together that they require to be dug out with an iron instrument. See farther on the subject of grapes in Book VIII. Chap. IV. " On Wines." SuBSECT. 3. — Melon (^Cucumis Melo, Linn.). 2741. The flesh of this fruit is very delicious, being succulent, cool, and high-flavoured. With us it is used only at the dessert, and is generally eaten with sugar, ginger, or pepper; but in France it is likewise served up at dinner as a sauce for boiled meats. It grows wild in Tartary, and has been lately found in abundance on the sandy plains of Icypoor. It was brought originally from Asia by the Romans, and is said to haVe been common in England in the time of Edward III., though it is supposed that it was lost again, as well as the cucumber, during the wars of York and Lancaster. The best kind, called the Cantaloupe from the name of a place near Rome where it was first cultivated in Europe, is a native of Armenia, where it grows so plentifully that a horse load may be bought for a crown. Melons require a high temperature to raise them in perfection ; and though no country has a greater variety af them than England, yet they have a high price in our markets. In France they are grown in such abundance that whole villages are occupied exclu- sively with their cultivation ; and in consequence of the practice which the people have, their culture is well understood. While in France and England melons are grown as articles of luxury, in some parts of the East they are used as necessaries of life. Niebuhr informs us that in Africa melons are planted in the fields, and that they are used by all ranks of Arabians as common food. 2742. But although the melon is a veri/ delicious fruit, it is not one of the most wholesome; and the coldness of its nature demands that it should be accompanied by warm and stimulating condiments. Large melons are too often preferred on account of their showy appearance ; but the small ones, when ripe, are often the most highly flavoured. There are many varieties of this fruit of several degrees of excellence. When a melon is per- fectly fine, it is full without any vacuity ; this is known by knocking upon it: and when cut, the flesh should be dry, no water running out, only a little dew, which should be of a fine reddish colour. 27J3. The water melon requires a warm climate to bring it to perfection in the open air. Its sweet and succulent flesli, and gratefully cool juice, render it particularly agreeable in those countries where it grows abundantly. The juice is sucked out by a hole made in the rind. In Upper Egypt, whole districts on the b.inks of rivers are planted with water melons ; they grow in sand. The Egyptians cat them in such abundance that tliey would seem to be almost their only meat and drink, and tliey Ibnn their most common medicine in cases of ardent fever; but Hasselquist recommends caution in their use, "as they chilled his stomach like ice." The fruit often grows to a large size in this country ; but in Seneg.il one has been known to weigh sixty pounds. In some parts if India where rain does not fall for fifteen months, water melons sometimes weigh from fifteen to seventy pounds. They were introduced into England with the common melon, but arc seldom cultivated, .as Ihe juice, though usefid in a warm climate, is insipid. One kind of water melon is pickled like gherkins, and is mucli used by the French cooks in their Iricassees ; it is also sometimes baked in sweet wine. SuBSECT. 4.— Cucumber (^Cucumis salivus, Linn.). 2744. TTiis frt'it is allied to the melmi, though far inferior in point of flavour. It appears to have been cultivated at a very early period, for it is mentioned in the Mosaic history as one of the fruits which the Israelites enjoyed in Egypt, and of which they regretted the loss. We are informed by travellers that it, together with other fruits of this class, still forms a great part of the food of the people in Egypt. Bishop Ileber saw them raised in India beyond the Ganges, and Hurckhai'dt observed them in Palestine. Pliny mentions them as growing in great quantities in Africa. It was a very great favourite among the Romans, who raised them by artificial heat, and they were introduced into England together with the melon. 2745. Cucumbers are chicjly used as salad with meal or fish, and tjourig ones are pickled under the name oi gherkins. They are cold, and more diilicult of digestion than most vegetables when eaten raw ; and they are generally dressed with pepper, vinegar, and oil, chiefly with a view to correct their cold qualities. Cucumbers are now much less used in their natural state than formerly among wealthy families; but they are in request for stews and made dishes, and when preserved they are esteemed one of the most agree- able sweetmeats. They are excellent, and more wholesome, when stewed with gravy K k