Chap. V. BIRDS, 393 nature of their food. Thost" which feed upon grains and vegetables, as tlie common Fowl, nirUev and pheasant, are the most delicate and have the whitest flesh. Those which live partly on animal and partly on vegetable food, as ducks and geese, are brown- fleshed, and higher flavom-ed ; and those which, being aquatic, live wholly on fish, have a taste savouring of the creatures they feed upon ; it is remarked that the same bird may he made to acquire in a certain degree a peculiar flavour by managing its food accordingly. If permitted to go at large, with plenty of food, and under favourable circumstances, as in the c;ise of common fowl in a farm-yard, they often get sufliciently fat : but domestic fowls are generally fattened for the market, and sometimes not m the way best calculated to promote their health, and, consequently, wholesomeness as food. Some wild birds are migratory, and can only be had while they remain with us ; before the use of gunpowder the°e were caught by hawks trained for the purpose, a mode of killing calculated to render the flesh more tender: at present they are shot, hawking having gone out of use. Some small birds, as larks, are caught in nets and traps. 2010. TJie fat of birds is not dispersed i/iroiigh ihe mtisdes or marbled, as it is in quadrupeds; and diflerent parts of the same bird differ very much in flavour and other properties. Every one knows how much whiter the pectoral muscles which move the wings are when cooked, than those which move the legs; but the flesh of the latter is more juicy, and, when tender, from being young and well dressed, is by many preferred. The legs of the snipe and the woodcock are always preferred to the breast. The legs of birds are more apt to get tough and stringy when old, particularly the tendons and ligaments ; hence the greater difficulty in carving them. The flesh of birds, particularly poultry, is extremely- nutritious and easy of digestion ; therefore very fit for valetudinarians. 2011. Tlte internal organs or viscera of birds are partly eaten ; of these the gizzard is digested slowly, and is not proper for dyspeptic persons. The intestines of the woodcock called the trail, when dressed, is considered by epicures as a delicate morsel. The liver has a peculiar flavour, from the bile contained in it: by some it is relished, and disliked by others. The livers of geese fattened and enormously enlarged, so much the fashion in some parts of the Continent, are really in a state of disease ; and Dr. Prout remarks that it can scarcely be considered as free from danger to eat them. 2012. TJie term poult?;/ is applied to all kinds of domestic fowls brought up in a farm- yard. In Britain, where much butcher's meat is consumed, these are generally esteemed a luxury, and, consequently, are not reared in such considerable quantities as in France, Egypt, and some other countries, where it is used more as a common article of food. In France, poultry forms an important part of the live stock of the farmer, and it has been said of that country, that the poultry yards supply a much greater quantity of food to the gentleman, the wealthy tradesman, and the substantial farmer, than the shambles. It is well known that in Egypt it has been, from time immemorial, a considerable branch of rural economy to raise domestic poultry for sale, hatched in ovens, by artificial heat. The warmer climates are far more favourable than ours for the purpose of raising poultry; and the same remark necessarily holds with respect to this country, where the warmest and driest soils are best adapted to this production, more especially of chickens and turkeys. It is conceived that the consolidations of farms, among other consequences, has diminished the quantity of poultry, and, consequently, enhanced the price. Though the gentleman, the yeoman, and the capital rack-renter, may sometimes rear enough for the supply of their own table, yet it is not an object with them to produce a supply for the public, and the business of breeding poultry for the market is either left to the cottager, whose means and opportunities are too limited, or to the little tradesmen and farmers. When markets are too distant for the cottagers, their poultry is purchased by the higglers, who carry it to the large towns for sale. 2013. Hatching chickens by artificial heat may be mentioned as one of the modes of increasing food, perhaps deserving of attention. This method, we ar« informed by Dio- dorus and Aristotle, was practised from time immemorial by the Egyptians, and is still used in that country to a considerable extent. This art is practised very successfully by the inhabitants of a village, named Bermc, and by those who live at a small distance from it. Towards the beginning of autumn, the persons who follow it as a trade spread themselves into various parts of the country, and each one oifers his services in managing an oven. The ovens are of different sizes, but generally hold from 40,000 to 80,000 eggs. Each Bennean engages to deliver two-thirds as many chickens as he receives eggs ; and as many of the remaining third as he hatches are his own property. From a newspaper, published by the Egyptian government, it appears that upwards of seventeen millions of chickens are annually hatched in this manner in Egypt; and the fowls, when grown up, are not inferior to those produced by incubation. The members of the French Academy, in the early and middle part of the last century, in consequence of the reports of travellers, made experiments on this subject, under the direction of Reaumur ; the trials succeeded, and the details of the methods employed