PRESERVATION OF HEALTH. 1200 Book XXVI. the shoulders. Too much stress cannot be laid on this subject. Tight bandaging, tight lacing, or any compression in the dress of children, if continued, injure the respiration, and the action of the heart j the spine also often becomes turned by inducing children to put themselves into the posture in which they find most relief, and from the pain arising from any tight ligatures. There should be nothing in the dress of children than can restrain the free movement of all their limbs and muscles. To boys, tight waistcoats and bands are very seriously injurious, causing in them undue pressure upon other and very delicate parts of the body. In regard to the stays of girls worn in after life, every medical man can explain to mothers the main grounds of objection to them, and no sensible or affec- tionate mother but would immediately make war with fashion rather than consign their young children to the sorrows and calamities of ill health. 7106. To keep the head cool and the feet warm may be a modem axiom, but is a good one. Caps, it is well known, are not an essential in the dress of a young infant. If born ■with hair, the infant can very well spare the artificial covering usually provided for it If a cap be not worn by day, neither should one be worn during the night. This plan of dispensing with the use of caps it is very desirable to adopt, if there -be in young children any tendency to water on the brain. For the same reason heavy beaver hats, and velvet bonnets, graced with plumes of feathers, are the worst coverings for a child's head that can be selected. While the mother is admiring the face and cui-ly hair beneath the heavy hat or bonnet, she is not conscious that the heat and the weight are acting forcibly and prejudicially on the delicate vessels of the head, often causing headach, if not tendencies to severe diseases. The age of the child denies him the power.of expressing his suffering except by fretfulness, which alike surprises and vexes the poor mother. A lighter cover- ing of the head might remove this annoyance. 7107. The feet of children should be kept warm and dry. A young infant should, in the winter, wear soft woollen socks ; and children of all ages should, in this climate, wear ■woollen socks during three parts of the year. A different notion and practice was formerly adopted in regard to children. They ■were seldom seen in socks or stockings: and even some writers on education, Locke for instance, recommends that children should have leaky shoes, rather than such as would exclude the wet, as the best means of hardening and inuring them to the changeable climate in which they were born. Modern opinion and practice are the reverse of this; and the consequence is that more children are reared now than were under the former mode of treatment: then the healthy children only survived—the delicate sunk under the hardening system. To keep the feet dry and warm of infants and children generally, is the uniform advice of all medical men of the present day, and also of all persons whose observation has been principally exercised, and their experience gained, in the manage- ment of young children. 7108. Tight shoes, next to'tight lacing, are among the domestic tortures that might generally be spared young children. It is not so much small shoes as ill-made shoes that produce injury to young ffeet. Shoes that do not fit well are soon worn down at the heel. a child's ancle seems to give way also, and to bend towards the defective part of the shoe ; and its step becomes thus, with the use of ill-made shoes, both unsafe and awkward. To avoid this inconvenience many mothers have boots made for their children; but to wear these constantly has its ill effects also. The ancles become accustomed to the support of the boot; and when left off, the child appears to have weak ancles, and to be easily fatigued when walking without the support of his boots. Some persons advise, for children, the use of heavy shoes, as strengthening to the muscles of the ancles. If proper attention could be given by parents to this subject, and the weight of the shoe very properly adapted to the strength of a child's ancle, it might not be an unsuccessful means of adding to the muscular power of children ; but when we consider that the strongest in limb among the Irish and Scotch are those who go entirely without shoes and stockings, the importance diminishes attached to the wearing a heavy shoe as a means of strengthening the ancles. To prevent children from sitting or standing long in wet shoes is a much more necessary precaution. 7109. The evaporation constantly going on from the moisture of the shoe and from the warmth of the foot, withdraws so much warmth from the circulation as is extremely weakening, and especially to children of delicate constitutions. Chilliness is the imme- diate consequence, often succeeded by inflammatory attacks either of the lungs, throat, or bowels. It is perhaps needless to add that children as a rule, whether the weather be dry or moist, should always change their shoes ■vvhen they return from out-door exercise, and are going to remain for some time in the house. Those who have the charge of children's shoes should always attend to their being well dried after they have been used in ■wet weather.