CDhap. XII. BED-ROOM FURNITURE. 271 itts elasticity a long time ; but it is also the most expensive : in a second quality, the hair DDf the tails of oxen is mixed, and this is also good. , ,, , 1210. Wool mattresses are much cheaper, but it is necessary that they should be made rof good -wool. The cheapest kind usually made in England are of wool rejected for B-nanufacturing purposes, called floclc, mixed with the waste from the surface in dressing hjlankets and cloth, which, being short, requires many tufts or knots to keep the wool, pro- perly in its place, and consequently the mattress is hard. In France wool mattresses are r.'ery generaUy slept upon instead of feather beds, but these are made of long wool, which ^requires few tufts, and are very soft; these are beginning now to be made here, but they inre expensive; and as they will get hard by constant use, and cannot be shaken up like a feeather bed, they require occasionally to be taken to pieces by the upholsterer to have hhe wool carded and made up again ; which costs eight or ten shillings. They are excel- eent for summer use, being less relaxing than feather beds, and not half the price. An eminent upholsterer recommends as an excellent kind of mattress, long wool, and hair, not mixed together, but laid in alternate layers : this is less expensive than all uair, but nearly equal in quality. Four inches thick is sufficient for a mattress; thicker •jannot be well fastened: when a very soft mattress is required instead of a feather bed, it ss best to have two rather thin laid one on the other. 1211. Mattresses stuffed with elastic iron wire are a recent and valuable improvement, rrhe following is the mode of constructing them. Wire about the eighth of an inch in iiliameter, or smaller for some purposes, is twisted into coils of the form of an hour- glass, Jig. 416., that is, like two cones joined together at their apices. The lower parts of the springs are sown to a canvass or webbing ; and their upper parts are secured in their places by packthread, tied or braced from one to the other, crossing like a net. On the tops of the springs canvass is laid, and over that a layer of baked horse hair, and then the outer covering of tick- ^^^^^^ ing. The springs are made at Birmingham. When hhe mattress is not pressed, the springs rise to their fuU height, which is about seven inches : i,)ut when the weight of a person comes upon it, the springs yield, and are compressed onto less space. This kind of mattress, on accoimt of its superior elasticity, is particularly tcell calculated for invalids, not requiring to be shaken or moved like a feather bed. It S3, besides, extremely cool in summer; and in winter, if warmth be required, another ooft mattress can be laid upon it. Indeed, with this mattress, no feather bed is necessary, and it is, therefore, upon the whole, very economical, not being above half the price of a lead. They cannot be turned, and require no making. The same method of stuffing by irire springs is used extensively for easy chairs and seats of various kinds. 1212. Cocoa-nut fibre, called coir in India, has lately been introduced as a material for rtuffing mattresses, and has some qualities that strongly recommend its use. These fibres rre found surrounding the kernel of the cocoa-nut (see our description of that fruit, !3ook VII. Chap. IX.), and, after having undergone a certain preparation by the manu- lacturer, they are sold ready to use instead of horse hair. The advantages of this material ipppear to be these. Containing naturally a large portion of tannin, a principle which exists nn all bark, and which gives to leather its incorruptibility, it will neither ferment nor de- compose, like other substances, but preserves its freshness in all climates. No vermin of any kind will breed or harbour in this fibre, although the best hair and flock are liable to hhis in warm countries. It is therefore exceedingly durable, and free from smell. It is Use very elastic, and although not equal in this respect to the best horse-hair, it is yet much superior to wool, nor does it get into knots like that substance. Cocoa fibre like- ririse preserves its elasticity for a long time, and this may be restored after some years, ivy taking it out, washing in water, and drying in the sun. This material has been tried ivy officers in the army and navy, and has been found particularly well calculated for Mattresses, couches, and cushions : it is not above half the price of horse-hair. It was first nitroduced by Captain "VVilders. _ _1213, The Ulva-marina is a species of sea-weed, or marine plant {Zostera mnrina, .Linn.), and this, when properly washed and dried, has been well spoken of as a stuffing Iror mattresses: it is very wholesome, does not harbour vermin, and is tolerably light Bnd soft i but if not sufficiently washed, is said to attract moisture, owing to a little salt eemaining in it. 1214. The outer cha ff of the oat is used for stuffing mattresses, and also bolsters, in some •arts of Scotland. This material is carefully sifted from the smaller chafif and dust, md is renewed once a year. 1215. The chaff of maize is employed for the same purpose in Italy and other countries 'rhere that grain is commonly cultivated. Bran is sometimes used for mattresses for children. 1216. The dried leaves of the hccch-tree are rather preferable to straw as stuffing for