Book XIII. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 890 Sdbsect. 2 Wild Birds and Game. 5030. Wild birds, being less fat than domestic fowls, require more copious and frequent basting with fresh butter. Also, after they are killed, they require longer keeping. When the colour of a bird begins to change near the vent it is time to dress it. 5031. In roasting pheasants or partridges, make a clear fire, but not too fierce. Thirty minutes will be a sufficient time for a young bird to roast; forty, or even fifty, for a full- grown pheasant, and twenty for partridges. Game is spoiled if over done. As an im- provement to tlie flavour of pheasant, " The Cook's Oracle " recommends a piece of beef steak to be inclosed in it, and roasted with it. Serve both pheasant and partridge with a clear brown gravy of beef, and with bread sauce. 5032. Broiled partridges. — Partridges broiled are quickly done, and are excellent. Cut them in half, and trim them neatly. Dip tbem in butter melted previouslj', and cover them thickly with bread-crumbs. About a quarter of an hour before they will be wanted broil them over a clear brisk fire, and serve them with sauce a la Diahle. See " Sauces." 5033. Moor giiini\ grouse, and black cock are all dres.sed like partridges. The black cock will require as long a time roasting as tlie pheasant; moor game and grouse, as tlie partridge. Serve them with currant jelly and I'ricd bread-crumbs. 5034. IVuodcocks are never drawn ; and the entrails add much to the flavour of the bird. Cut as many slices of bread as thure are birds, and toast or fry them of a delicate brown. Put them in the dripping-pan un<liT tlie birds, so as to catch the " trail " which, as the roasting proceeds, drops from them. Roast them for twenty minutes, and baste and froth them with butter and Hour. Put the toast on a liot dish, and lay the birds ou it. Pour a very little but good gravy in the dish and send up more in a tureen. Garnish with lemon. 6035. Wild ducks should be stuffed with seasoned sage and onion, and roasted before a clear fire, and basted, so as to abound with red gravy ; they should then be carved, put into a covered silver dish heated witli a spirit lanip, and gently stewed about tive minutes in strong clear gravy, with some cayenne pepper: an instant l)efore the lamp is blown out add a table-spoonful of lemon-juice. Serve it up very hot. 503(j. Widgeons and leal are dressed as wild duck, but require less time in roasting ; not more than ten minutes for the widgeon, nor more than seven or eight for teal. Pour a good gravy over widgeons, and serve with eschalot sauce in a tureen. 5037. Snipes dift'er little from woodcocks except in size: they are dressed in the same way, but require about five or seven minutes less in roasting. Serve with orange gravy sauce. 5038. Larks and plovers l equire simply to be roasted on a small bird spit, and to be served up with gra\y and fried bread-crumbs. 5039. Roasted hare. — A hare is dry meat, requiring abundance of stuffing, gravy, and sauce to render it palatable. But the common practice of soaking in warm water previous to dressing it is injudicious. Prepare the stuffing in the following manner : parboil the liver in a little salt and water, and beat it in a mortar with a slice of fat ham boiled. When beaten to a smooth paste, add some bread-crumbs, chopped parsley, thynie, and marjoram, grated lemon-peel, and a little black and cayenne pepper. Incorporate these with an egg well beaten. Put the whole within the bodj' of the hare, and sew up the skin. When the hare is laid to the fire, put into the dripping-pan three pints of milk, and constantly baste the hare with it for three quarters of an hour. The rest of the time baste it with butter; and before it is taken up, froth it highly, by dredging it with flour, and basting it a few times longer. It will require an hour and a half s roasting, unless it be very small. Serve it with gravy and melted currant jelly. 50-10. Babbits boiled. — Put them into a pan of warm water for ten minutes ; then boil them for twenty minutes, or half an hour if they are very large ; if they appear to be old, they will require nearly three quarters of an hour's time to boil them sufficiently. Smother them with white onion sauce, and with the liver minced garnish the dish, unless the liver be required to chop up and mix with the sauce. ■Wl. Rabbits roasted. — Young r.ibbits will require to roast for thirty minutes; old ones nearly forty. They are stuffed like hare, and should be dredged with flour and basted with butter. The liver boiled ai;d chopped with parsley must be put into melted butter, and served in a tureen. 5042. Rabbits to be broiled are split down the middle, and laid flat on the gridiron ; the inside being pre- viously seasoned with pejipcr and salt. Liver and parsley, and butter sauce, or a grill sauce, is usually served with them. Part of the liver is sometimes removed to garnish the dish alteruatcly with slices of lemon. Sect. III. FISH. S0BSECT. 1 Sea Fish. 5043. Boiling tnrbot. — M. Ude says, " I have ascertained, by many years' observa- tion, that a turbot kept two or three days is better than a very fresh one." If it is to be kept, let it be drawn, washed, rubbed lightly with salt, and laid on ice or sand in a cool place. An hour before it is to be dressed, soak it in water with some salt in it. Score the skin across the thickest part of the back, to prevent it breaking on the breast, which will happen, if this precaution be not observed, by the swelling of the fish. . Put into a fish-kettle of cold water a large handful of salt, lay the fish on a drainer in it. When coming to a boil, skim it, and afterwards set the kettle on the side of the fire to boil as gently as possible from 15 to 20 minutes. Fast boiling w'xW break the fish to pieces. This allowance of time is for a fisli weighing from 8 to 9 lbs. Rub through a