1112 Book XXIII. CARRIAGES. inconvenient, and this carriage is now much superseded by the britzschka, -which answers several purposes. The barouche, together with the phaeton, britzschka, and some others, come under the denomination of ope/i carriages, as the coach and chariot are close carriages. 6631. The barouchet is to a barouche what a landaulet is to a landau, an open carriage with a head, and in form like the lower part of a chariot. 6632. Tlie sociable was a carriage formerly in use, constructed like the barouche, but with sides of worked cane. 6633. The chariot diifers from the coach in having only one seat, and it is, in fact, like a coach with the fore part cut off, whence the French appellation a coupi. It is hung in the same manqer as the coach, with C springs and has, as well as the coach, what the coach-makers call a compass perch; sometimes also it has under-springs, as Jig. 856, The Salisbury boot, as in the wood-cut, and hammer-cloth, are the same as in the coach. It is considered as the most elegant for a dress or court carriage, but is not any lighter than a coach, though more agreeable to the eye, and affording a view in front. The very best work of every kind is executed in this carriage, and good taste is exercised in the painting, varnishing, and other decorations in a chaste and not gaudy style. 6634. Travelling or posting chariot, Jig. 857. — When the chariot is intended for tra- velline. it is built somewhat stronger, the hammer-cloth is removed, and a drivmg seat placed there. Families who travel with post-horses sometimes have their own carnages, which, among other conveniences, prevents the luggage from bemg shifted. The ordi- nary chariot is sometimes converted into the travelling one, by removing the coach-box, and supplying its place by a trunk boot, the coachman nding one of the »»orses as postilion. A compass perch is used, and some have a crane neck, which admits of the fore wheel turning in less room in narrow streets; or sometimes a s,van neck, which consists of a single perch instead of a double one the arched part only bemg of iron Another trunk boot is placed behind, with a seat for servants : on the roof >s placed J, Wse square box, called an iinperial, and sometimes there is also a case below the body caUed a S.^^A these are covered with waterproof black leather, and they are well Becured by eather straps and buckles. There are likewise Venetian bhnds to the