tHAP. III. ON THE VARIOUS KINDS OF FUEL. -99 I H 2 nad of the best kind, this small coal is still useful, as it will cake together, and is particu- ir,rly desirable for the blacksmith's forge; but when the coal is little bituminous, as the hhropshire, this small coal does not cake, and it is then of little value. It is customary in Hi coal to separate the large from tlie small by screening : and the small is sold at a much lower rate under the name of slack. It is no uncommon thing for dishonest cealers to mix some of this slack with good coals, though some of it is scarcely combus- ibble. 433. Theprice of coals to the consumers in London is said to be considerably enhanced by cclass of middle men, who are caUed in the trade Brass-plate coal merchants. These con- ivst principally of merchants' clerks, gentlemen's servants, and others, who have no wharf if their own, but merely receive orders and transmit them to some true coal merchant, ['rho sends in the coal from his wharf: all that is effected by the brass-plate coal mer- hhant being to receive a handsome commission for his agency, with this attending cir- uumstance, that the coals are likely to be of an inferior quality, with the means of redress teing rendered more difficult. In ordering coals, therefore, it would be prudent not to eeal with any but those who actually keep wharfs of their own. 434. To derive the greatest advantage from open coal fires, it is necessary not only that hae fuel should be well selected, but that the fire should be properly managed. It is not unfBcient that the coal burns well; for it may do so without giving so much heat to the ppartment as if it were managed differently. Here, again, we shall find that by resorting D) a few principles we shall comprehend more clearly what is the best practice. We explained above that air is essential to combustion, and that it is by the decompo- itition of the air during this process that heat is evolved: it follows from this that to throw nut the most heat the fuel should be so arranged, that the air shall have free access to Tvery part; care should therefore be taken that the coals do not lie in too compact a Kiody, but that interstices should be left that the air may penetrate through the fire. 435. Lighting afire may appear so simple and well-known a process, that it may be brought quite superfluous to give any directions respecting it; and yet how often do we aafFer the inconvenience of seeing the fire go out soon after it has been lighted? Perhaps e°w circumstances try one's patience more than to witness abortive attempts at lighting a irre. To do this methodically, a basket should be provided, with a separation into two »arts; one for paper or wood shavings, the other for wood split and cut into proper [EDgths. If the paper is put on the bottom of the grate, as is frequently done, and the rcrood in too large pieces, the iron of the grate abstracts the heat so much from the cpm- naencing flame that it will not have strength enough to kindle the wood: or if it does ikke fire, the combustion is too feeble to set fire to the coals that are heaped upon it. The leetter way is to have some pieces of very choice inflammable coal, and to lay a few pieces tt first on the bottom bars, but without covering them entirely ; then lay on the paper or hhavings, then the wood, and on that some pieces of round coal of the size of eggs, and ond no small coal: when the whole is kindled, let it burn up before any more coal is ddded. If the smaU coal be put on at first, it is sure to choke the fire by filling up the aacancies, and preventing the air from having access to the centre. The coal laid tt the bottom will take tire by the time that the wood is nearly burnt out, and will by its aame keep the fire alight. If a fire is thus laid and kindled, there is no reason why it bhould go out, and it ought to burn up with certainty when left to itself. Some have re- onmmended to have kindling balls made of coal mixed with some very inflammable sub- Icance ; but as these have not come into use, it will do very weU to select some of the best trdinary coals, that take fire very readily, which may be had of the coal merchants, and eept for the purpose of lighting fires : the trouble of this will not be great, and may, in Dome situations, prevent much annoyance. It has often been condemned as a bad plan )» throw too much coals on the fire at a time, as by this a great deal of the hydrogen is iastilled off, and escapes up the chimney without catching fire, which is absolute waste. "I'hat some hydrogen, which we may call the most inflammable part of the coal, does ge- eerally escape unburnt in open fires, we may convince ourselves of, by holding a piece of gghted paper in some of the smoke which is rising from the fire where there is no flame ; fe shall perceive that sometimes a flame will instantly appear, owing to the escaping jydrogen being set fire to. To manage a fire in the best manner, little hydi-ogen should ncape up the flue, otherwise there is a loss of fuel. We may here repeat that the manner 11 •which open fires warm apartments, is, by the radiant heat, almost entirely. We should, laerefore, prevent the front of the fire from being clogged with unburnt coals, while the inmbustion is going on in the centre ; the front should be of a glowing red, since that is kae condition in which the fire throws out most radiant heat. To promote this, some kersons have employed brick balls to put into the fire, and when these arc well managed, Biaey do assist in throwing out radiant heat by becoming red-hot; but they require much Bare and attention, as they are apt to collect together and choke up the fire, thus doing ftaore harm than good : wc cannot, therefore, recommend them. Much of the comfort kd advantage of open fires depend upon the quality of the coals : they should not be too