Book VII. 354 ON FOOD. scientific descriptions. Our reply to this must be, that we expect no impossibilities : and if our readers were to consist of none but the ordinary operators in the kitchen, we should adopt a different mode. But at present we are supposed to address ourselves to persons of superior intelligence, and whose education qualifies them for comprehending what we have to say : at the same time expressing our conviction that when the proper means shall be employed, there is nothing in the subject which may not be made intelligible to every ordinary capacity. Let not our readers, therefore, be alarmed at our presenting the various facts which we are desirous of teaching in what they may, perhaps, consider as a formal mode, for they will find that nothing is more simple than the manner in which we propose to explain them, and that to follow us satisfactorily will repuire only moderate attention. 1715. We may add further, that this subject is more important to various classes than is generalh) imagined. Those who reside in large cities may be surrounded bj' plenty of every description, where well-supplied markets ofi^er without any trouble the choice of all that can be produced, in abundance and variety almost perplexing; but it should be considered that many persons may be placed in situations very different, where some knowledge of the principles upon which the nutritious properties of various substances depend may prove highly important. The navigator, in long voyages, has often the opportunity of applying such information to the most valuable uses ; and superior science may, with respect to food, as well as in many other cases, prove the safety of a crew. To the soldier and the traveller, likewise, who encounter many hardships, this kind of know- ledge comes into play with advantage ; and it has been, remarked that the success of a battle has sometimes, in a great measure, depended upon a good meal. In short, it is easy to imagine a thousand situations in life where some acquaintance with the varieties of food, as well as the modes of preparing it, may prove of great utility to individuals who never expected to stand in want of such information. Nor is the subject more unworthy of the political than the domestic economist. A scarcity of food of various descriptions, even in such a country as this, has sometimes occurred: and to possess the means of improving and preserving it, or finding substitutes for articles of such necessity, it is essential to comprehend clearly their actual nature and properties. Sect. II. MANNER IN WHICH NUTRITION IS PERFORMED. 1716. It appears to he a part of the system of our animal economy that we experience a daily waste in aU the various organs, which therefore require to be continually recruited by a supply of fresh materials. Of this waste, and the change that is consequent upon it, we are not at first sensible ; and few persons are aware of its being so considerable, that perhaps not a single portion of our bodies consists of the same substance that composed it only a few years before. It is to supply this continual decay that nature has given us an- instinctive craving for food : and it is the conversion of our aliment into materials cal- culated to repair the loss which we sustain that constitutes nutrition. 1717. It is well known that all the substances received into the stomach with this view undergo certain chemical changes, the whole of which is designated by the term digestion, of which we feel it necessary here to give a very brief sketch in order to render our subsequent observations intelligible. In the first place, then, from the internal surface of the stomach there is secreted a peculiar fluid called the gastric juice, to the action of which all the food which we take is submitted. This liquid differs from every other known fluid, but is said to consist of water, gastric mucus, and hydrochloric acid ; it possesses so great a solvent power, that it reduces every species of aliment to an uniform and homogeneous paste of a greyish colour called chyme, in which the previous texture or nature of the food can no longer be distinguished. The chyme passes into the other digestive organs, where it meets with other secretions, called the bile, pancreatic juice, &c., by which it is farther altered mto a milky looking fluid named chyle. This is taken up by numerous minute vessels, called lacteals; and, after undergoing processes which it is not necessary here to follow more minutely, is at last conveyed into the blood, with which it finally unites, and which, cir- culating through every part of the system, carries the necessary materials for the renova- tion which we have mentioned. . 1718. Nutrition, then, co}isists in the successful conversion of our food, whether animal or vegetable, first into the substance named chyme, then that into chyle, and the farther change of this into blood as the renovator of the system ; and the perfection of the several , processes by which this is effected depends upon the nature of the food, and the proper j action of the digestive organs. i