OF ANIMAL FOOD. Chap. II. 367 jamed the sebacic acUl, or acid of fat. If this acid is abstracted by washing by means ot vater, the sweetness of the fat may be sometimes restored. 1801. Different kinds offal liquefy at different temperatures: lard melts at 97° ; tallow ^'eqiiires a heat somewhat greater; but the fat extracted from suet by boiling requires .27° to liquefy it. The great inflammability and the bright white light it gives while ijumins renders the most solid kind, tallow, eminently serviceable for producing artificial li^ht. '^Tallow itself will not inflame : it is only the vapour of tallow that inflames ; and Undoes not boil till it is heated to 400°. Fat acts upon some metals ; thus, if copper be aovered with it, the surface soon becomes green, and a poison is formed. 1802. It is now /mown that fat is not to be regarded as a simple principle, but as consisting of »wo distinct principles, which may be separated from each other, a fact which we stated wefore, when treating on "Candles." One, called stearine, is always solid at the ordinary eamperature, and mehs at 100° ; when pure it is white, brittle, and without taste or smell: hhe other, an oily substance, more fusible, is called elain, and is always fluid at the com- Uiion temperature, becoming solid at 45° : it is generally of a yellow colour. 1803. These two principles, elain and stearine, exist in very different proportions in various fatty substances, as will appear from the following table. Elain. Stearine. . CO 40 Goose fat . 37 63 Ducli's fat . 62 38 Turkey's fat . 24 76 Olive oil . 74 . -26 Almond oil Elain. Stearine. . 48 32 . 72 28 . 74 26 72 28 liButter made in summer ITOitto in winter IHogs' lard . I'^Beef marrow . JiMutton marrow . . . 74 . .26 I Almond oil . . . .76 24 The steai-ine and elain seem to be mechanically mixed in animal fats, for they can be >>btained in a separate state merely by squeezing tallow between folds of blotting paper : lae elain is absorbed by the paper, and the stearine remains by itself as a solid. To pro- aare the elain by itself, the paper which has absorbed it must be soaked in warm water, Dod the oil will swim upon the top. It is the elain which gives the peculiar smell to the various fatty substances, and tallow deprived of it is both more solid and white, without niy smell. This discovery has been applied to the improvement of candles. They may so be separated from each other by means of alcohol. If fat oil be boiled in alcohol the earine crystallises as the spiiit cools, and the elain remains in the solution. See farther nnder " Soap." 1804. Marrow differs from other fat only in the fineness of the membranous texture in hhich it is contained, the fluidity of the oil, and its situation within the bones. 1805. Fat, as well as all fixed oils, is difficult of digestion, particularly by weak ;oomachs, and therefore is not proper for dyspeptics. It is apt to cause bile in the nomach. But fat is rendered still less digestible when subject to high temperatures in lume culinary processes, as in frying. All meats and fish that contain much oil or fat are Dt " to lie heavy at the stomach," as it is called, or, in other words, to be difficult of Ingestion ; and then they are apt to occasion heartburn and other injurious effects. It is ijought, however, that bacon and salt pork are more easily digested than fresh fat. SuBSECT. 9.—Blood. 11806. Blood consists of two parts; the coagulum, clot, or crassameiituni; and the serum. i is well known that blood, soon after it is drawn, separates into these spontaneously, hhe coagulum is the part which becomes solid, and contains the red colour; it consists of cceedingly minute coloured globules, to be seen only by a good microscope; these float a transparent fluid. The red globules themselves consist of fibrin and albumen, cording to Berzelius, and the colourless serum consists of albumen dissolved in a saline liiid. The coagulum of blood is very analogous to flesh, and seems to possess equal itritive properties. The serum is very analogous to the white of egg, and, like it, ulates by heat. It contains no gelatine. The red colour of the globules appears to 1 owing to a peculiar colouring matter ; and it may be removed by washing the coagulum leatedly in water : the coagulum will then appear of a whitish colour, being pure fibrin. ;e blood of animals is used as food, and is very digestible and wholesome : that of the ig and of the ox is used for making black puddings ; as likewise that of the goose in le places. SuBSECT. 10. — Mucus. 11807. Mucus is a substance generally liquid, and which appears to be employed by nature • the purpose of lubricating moveable parts, or of protecting them from the action of I'ler substances. It has a resemblance to gelatine, but is distinguished from it by being uble in cold water, and not gelatinising or becoming jelly ; nor is it coagulable by iat like albumen. Mucus is coagulated by subacetate of lead, which does not affect llatine. It is in too small quantity to be considered as very important in the subject of yd.