SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. 1042 Book XIX. G191. Pasltlks of orange flower. —\2 ounces of gum gnlbamiin, 12 do. of olibanum in tears, 12 do. of storiix, 8 do. of nitre, 1 pound of pure orange powder, 3 jjounds of charcoal powder, 1 ounce best oil of neroli. (il9'2. A few drops of the oil of sandal wood, iropitcA on a hot shovel, diffuses a most agreeable balsamic perfume throughout the atmosphere of siclc rooms or other confined apartments. Frankincense may like- wise be used to jierluino an apartment. Pastiles may be burned upon anything that will protect the table; but the most elegant mode is to place them in a pastile stand sold for the purpose. 6193. Hkjhly-concenlratcd smelling salts are in some respects preferable to pastiles, ■where fumigation is required. It is sufficient to leave out the stopper of the bottle con- taining the salts for a short time, to perfume a chamber. Sect. VI. POMADES, OR POMATtTMS. 6194. These are preparations for softening the skin and hair, and consist of fats or oils with the addition of some perfume. It is necessary to choose such fats as do not become rancid ; the best is clarified beef suet, or clarified beef marrow, and hoys' lard. 6195. Beef or mutton suet and hogs' lard are clarified from the raw materials, by chopping them fine, and rolling them out to break the cells in which the fat is lodged, then melting the fat in a water-bath, or other gentle heat, and straining it while warm ; it is then put into bladders to keep it from the aiv. Or it may be made by boiling it in water, and skimming it off when cold; but by this method it contains water, and does not keep so well as when melted by itself. 6196. Purified beef marrow is preferred by some perfumers to hogs' lard. It is puri- fied in the same manner as the last, and is thought by some to make the hair grow. 6197. Veal fat is used by some perfumers, as it will keep long. 6198. Oil of cacao is much used as a pomade by the ladies of Mexico, and by many of the African tribes, and is highly spoken of. In England, from the coldness of the climate, it grows too hard to be used by itself, but may be softened by an admixture of some pure oil, as oil of behn, or cold-drawn oil of almonds. 6199. The expressed oils used by perfumers are olive oil, oil of almonds, trotter (neats' foot) oil, chiefly used in making cold cream, and oil of behn, expressed from behn nuts ; this last is imported from Italy, and has the valuable property of not becoming rancid. 6200. Common soft pomatum is made of equal parts of beef or mutton suet and hogs' lard melted together; while they are liquid, put to it a little bergamot, or any other perfume that may be agreeable, and beat the whole well together, and then pour the mixture into pots. Another receipt. — Soak in water for two or three days half a pound of clean beef marrow, and a pound of fresh hogs' lard, changing and beating it every daj'. Put it into a sieve, and when dry into a jar, and the jar into a saucepan of water. When melted pour it into a basin, and beat it with two.spoonfuls of brandy; drain off the brandy, and add bergamot or any other perfume. Another. — An ounce of hogs' lard, one of beef marrow, one of spermaceti, and a pint of almond oil, melted together ; add oil of bergamot and oil of roses, or any other perfume. Hogs' lard alone, perfumed, will serve for pomatum for ordinary purposes, if it be re- quired very soft; and oil of almonds and spermaceti melted together form a useftil unguent for the hair; a little bergamot may be added. 6201. Hard pomatum may be made by melting together equal quantities of beef and mutton suet, the former being in the largest proportion, and making it up into rolls with paper roimd them. 6202. The French make a great variety of pomades; above twenty are sold by the perfumers in Paris. Pomade S la rose a la jonquiUe au jasmin a I'oeillet & la lleur d'oranger a la di^^itale li I'hcliotrope Pomade au graisse d'ours il la citrouillo en crenie a la moelle de bocuf au concomhre a la frangipane au baumc Pomade xu nerol! S la fleur d'acacia au barjoin au narcisse S la Heur de lavandc aux lima^ons au lilas. Highly-scented pomades are often preferred to scented oils. 620.3. Some pomades are made by infusion in those southern coimtries where odoriferous flowers are abundant. Beef suet and hogs' lard are melted together ; to this the petals of roses, orange flowers, or other sweet-scented flowers are added. This remains at rest far twenty-four hours, and it is then re-n\elted and well stirred. It is next put into canvas bags, and pressed, to separate the solid from the fluid part. This process is repeated witli the same fat several (perhaps ten oi' twelve) times, till the pomade has enough per- fume. In this process it requires 3,000 lbs. of fresh rose petals to make 500 lbs. of good pomade.