103.5 CUAP. VII. SOAPS FOR THE SKIN. iialso some parts of Italy and Tripoli. Tliis soap is sometimes artificially marbled or "Streaked with red and blue veins; and the marbled soap is harder than the white, rrequiring to be drier to take the marbling. 6130. Windsor soap is the kind most generally used by men for the toilet. The best i is made of one part olive oil to every nine parts tallow, and the more common of tallow I ouly ; these are united to barilla, and cented by oil of carraway, oil of anise, or some I other perfume. It is made white and brown. Curd soap consists, according to Dr. Ure's analysis, of 52 parts fat, 6 soda, and 42 'water, in 100 parts ; nine-tenths of the fat is tallow. 6131. An almost infinite variety of soaps have been made by perfumers, every one I recommending his own; but the basis of them all is good soap of the ordinary kinds, t either soft or hard, which they re-melt and mix with various perfumes. The soaps are rreduced to thin shavings, and these are put into a copper pan in a water-bath. If the ^ soaps are new, they will melt on the application of heat; but if they are old, a little water i is added. When the fusion is complete, some perfume, and, if required, some colour, is ; added, and the soap is poured into moulds. Formerly many foreign soaps were imported, : and many counterfeit soaps were sold under their names, as Joppa soap, Smyrna, Jeru- ssalem, Genoa, Venice, Marseilles, Gallipoli soaps. At present these have mostly given \way to our English soaps. The following is the composition of some of the perfumed ■ soaps : — Cinnamon soap. — 30 pounds of good tallow soap, 20 ditto of palm oil soap ; perfumed iwith 7 ounces of essence of cinnamon, 1^ ditto of sassafras, 1^ ditto bergamot; colour, 1 pound yellow ochre. Orange-flower soap. — 30 pounds good tallow soap, 20 ditto palm oil soap ; perfumed 'with 7i ounces essence of Portugal, 7i ditto amber; colour, 9^ ounces of some yellow : green pigment, and red lead. Alicsk soap. — 30 pounds good tallow soap, 20 ditto palm oil soap ; perfumed with 4^ 1 ounces powder of cloves, pale roses, gilliflower, essence of bergamot, and essence of 1 musk, each 3^ ounces ; colour, Spanish brown. Bitter almond soap. —50 pounds best white soap, 10 ounces essence of bitter almonds. Soap a la rose. — 30 pounds olive oil soap, 20 of good tallow soap ; perfumed with 3 V ounces essence of roses, 1 ditto cloves, 1 ditto cinnamon, 2J ditto bergamot. Soap au bouquet. — 30 pounds good tallow soap ; perfumed with 4 ounces bergamot, 1 ounce each of oil of cloves, sassafras, thyme, and neroli; colour, brown ochre. Naples soap is a strong soft soap, scented ; it comes to us in pots. Tlie best Castile soap comes from Spain, and sometimes it is imported from Marseilles. It is used medicinally ; but a great deal is made in this country by pouring the best white r soap into moulds, and giving the marbled appearance by some solution of sulphate of iron i in water. Transparent soap is considered by some as an elegant variety: it is made by ' dissolving Windsor soap in spirits of wine, cutting the soap in slices, putting them into , a large phial with a sufficient quantity of the spirit, and letting it remain before the fi^re : till the whole is dissolved, using no more spirit than is just necessary. When this ■ solution is poured into a mould, it becomes solid in cooling and retains its transparency. ' There is no particular advantage in using it; on the contrary, it is seldom so good as ' ordinary soap, and is apt to spoil. Palm soap is made with palm oil and soda: it has a smell peculiar to itself, which is not 1 liked by every one. Soap balls, or wash balls for washing the hands are made of various colours, by ■ simply cutting white soap into small pieces, rolling them in vermilion, blue, or other . colour, and squeezing them together into balls. They are scented with various perfumes ; ■ but they are at present little used. Soft toilet soaps are generally made of hog's lard and alkali, and are in great request : for shaving. Pearl soft soap is an elegant soap of this kind ; it is also called almond cream. 6132. Milk of roses is a saponaceous liquid, formed by mixing the liquid obtained by ex- I posing potash to the air with rose-water, and then adding to this oil of almonds, till the 1 mixture becomes milky without being greasy. It may be doubted whether any perfume or other addition to soap can improve it in its most important use. If there is too much : alkali in the soap, that is, if it be too strong, it will make the skin rough. Perhaps : nothing exceeds good Windsor soap. Some prefer oatmeal to soap for washing the hands ; it is certainly less likely to injure ' the skin. 6133. Freckles and pimples. — We abstain from giving any of the very numerous 1 receipts for removing these, although they are common in books that ti'cat of cosmetics, ' because we consider many of the applications useless and absurd, and some highly dan- gerous. Freckles are the result when certain persons have been much exposed to the sun;