SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE TOILET. Book XIX. 1040 them coarsely, and mix them with powdered nutmeg, mace, or a very little musk, and add to them some powdered sugar to preserve them. Put all this into bags of tafiety, and lay them among the wearing apparel, to give a perfume and to drive away moths. Another Lavender, thyme, marjoram, sage, vervain, rosemary. Sect. III. ANIMAL PERFUMES. 6180. Mtish is a concrete substance found in an animal having a near affinity to the deer tribe, the Moschus moschiferus, a native of Thibet, China, and Siberia. The musk- deer is a timid animal, and rarely appears during the day ; consequently, the musk col- lectors watch and surprise it at night. The best musk comes from China; and to have it genuine, it should be purchased in the natural bag or pod, as it is very often adulterated. The Bengal musk is inferior, and that from Russia the worst of all. The hair on the pod of the best musk is a fawn colour, that on the inferior, a dirty white. A variety of musk is found in the musk rat of Canada, an animal about the size of a small rabbit. Musk is of a bitter taste, and of an odour more powerful than anything known : sub- stances in its neighbourhood become strongly infected by it, and when once perfumed with it, long retain the scent. It has been known to affect chests of tea placed at a con- siderable distance, even though both had been packed up in leaded boxes ; for which reason, the East India Company gave an order not to import musk and tea in the same ships. Many persons dislike the odour. It has the property, when employed in very small quantities, of augmenting the .scent of other substances without imparting its own. G181. Ambergris is much used in the composition of perfumes ; its origin is not yet satisfactorily ascertained, but is supposed to be a morbid concretion in the spermaceti whale. It is usually found floating on the sea or on the sea-coast, and comes to us from the East and West Indies, but sometimes also from the northern seas. It is generally found in small pieces, but occasionally in masses of fifty or a hundred ounces. Ambergris has a good deal of resemblance to amber; but it is opaque, fatty and inflammable, re- markably light, melts readily when heated, and is scarcely soluble in spirits of wine. There are several varieties; grey, and black, or dark brown : the former is the best, easy to break, and lightest ; the latter is harder and heavier, and has very little smell. This substance is very liable to be adulterated by an admixture of wax, gum, storax, &c., by which the odour, which is agreeable, is impaired. It is generally joined with musk. Its odour is so strong, that if the box in which it is contained be left open for five minutes, it will perfume the whole chamber. 6182. Civet is a substance taken from the civet cat, and having a perfume approaching to that of musk and ambergris. Its consistence is like that of honey ; it comes from the East and Africa, and is brought to us chiefly by the Dutch. It is very liable to adul- teration by honey. It was chiefly used for perfuming wash-balls, &c., but it is little employed at present. 6183. Spermaceti is much used by the perfumer in making pomatum, cold cream, &c When good, it has no rancid odour. Sect. IV. ESSENTIAL OILS, OR ESSENCES ; PERF0MED SPIRITS AND WATERS. 6184. The nature of oils or essences has been already described in Book VII. Chap VII. Sect. X. Some of what are called essences by perfumers are essential oils diluted with alcohol ; or they are expressed oils impregnated with odorous essential oils. Attar of roses, sometimes called improperly otto of roses, is the essential oil of the rose, and the most fragrant and precious of any known; it comes from India in small gilt bottles, each containing an ounce. The smallest drop on a pair of gloves will perfume them for a long time. An inferior kind comes from Barbary. The manner of preparing it is described in Book XX. Cliap IIL Oil of roses is made here, but this is merely spirit strongly impregnated with the essen- tial oil of roses. 0(7 (f rhodium in fragrance resembles roses. It is prepared from rhodium wood ht/ distillation, and comes chiefly from the Levant; it is of a pale brownish red colour. The oil of sandal-wood is sometimes sold for it. Oil of la vender is made in this country, as well as in France, and it is said that our lavender is richer in i)erfume than the foreign. It is always best during the year in which it is made, and does not keep long. Oil of rosemary comes chiefly from Italy; but the English is considered to be better. It is used in making Ifungary water, and in scenting soaps.