( HAP. JII. 1225 BATHING. ■with steam from a boiler in another apartment. Besides artificial vapour baths, there are natural ones in several parts of the Neapolitan states, Ischia, and Switzerland. 7217. Various establixhincnts of baths in London are well known, and where almost all the modes of bathing may now be employed at a reasonable expense : we shall only par- ticularise two, one belonging to the " Royal Portable Bath Company," in Oxford Street, from which warm water and a bath is sent to any part of London in the manner prac- tissd at Vienna, Baden, and other cities on the Continent ; another is the Oxford and Cambridge baths in the Edgeware Road, where vapour baths are sent out. Vai-ious public large swimming baths have likewise been lately established ; but this subject is beyond our limits. SucsECT. 10.— Warm Air Bath. 7218. Common air, above the temperature of the body in a state of health, has been used as a kind of bath in particular cases. Warm-air chambers were employed even as luxuries by persons in health among the ancient Romans, and in Russia they are now occasionally used previous to the vapour bath. Its effect is to produce perspiration, which it does more rapidly than even the vapour bath, to which its operation is very analogous, though it differs from that in producing all its stimulating without its relaxing and sooth- ing effects. Like the vapour bath, it is of two kinds, according as the warm air is breathed or not breathed. The latter mode is now commonly practised. 7210. The most convenient kind of warm-air bath is that introduced by Dr. Gower in 1819, under the name of Sudatorium. This acts upon a part of the body only. The ap- paratus consists of a semi-cylindrical frame-work, or oblong arch of wicker covered with blankets, and laid over a part of the patient in bed. The air is heated by means of a lamp connected with the apparatus, and may be raised to different degrees of temperature as may be required. It does not appear to be necessary to have a high degree of heat; air heated to 8.5°, or from that to 90°, produces, in general, a profuse perspiration, and has been ftund to relieve greatly in chronic rheumatism, and other pains and stiffness of the joints ; also in various diseases of the skin, and in fevers. Some physicians speak in terms of liigh approbation of its advantages, but it is seldom employed, and it would not be ad- visable to try it, except under the direction of a medical practitioner. In very low con- stitutions of the habit, hot air above 100° may be productive of great mischief. ScDSECT. 11 riot Bath. 7220. The hot hath has a temperature from 9H° to about 112°, or the greatest heat that can be borne. It is a powerful stimulant, and should never be used by persons in a state of perfect health, but is employed only in cases of disease, and this should always be under the direction of a medical practitioner. As the object is to rouse the nervous and the general vital action, the bather should never remain long enougli in the hot bath to produce exhaustion ; the average time for using it is from ten to fifteen minutes. The few cases to which the hot bath is suited arc chronic affections of the nervous system,