1016 DETAILS RESPECTING ARTICLES OF DRESS. Book XVIIL pai't; the low-crowned are generally broad brimmed, the better to shade the face in summer. 59!)6. PI umes of feathers, and the single feather of the peacock, or common fowl, have been worn in the hat in very ancient times. In China, they are a mark of dignity. In niodeiTi times feathers have been confined to military men. Particular vegetables have been worn in the hat as badges of party or family ; thus the Welsh wear leeks, and the Irish the shamrock, in certain festivals ; and oak leaves have been worn in memory of Charles II. sheltering himself in an oak. Cockades have been also used as ornaments. White was the colour of the Stuarts and Bourbons ; a black cockade is the family badge of the Elector of Hanover. Large white cockades, called _/aiw7-s, are now worn by servants at weddings. It was the fashion to wear large jewels in the hat as ornaments, aud hat- bands, with loops and bindings of gold and silver lace, were esteemed as the marks of wealth and dignity ; all these have given place to a taste for a gi-eater simplicity in dress ; and for many years we have had no ornament in the hat beyond a simple narrow black band. Uncovering the head, or taking oft' the hat, is a mark of respect almost peculiar to Europeans ; in Persia it is considered indecorous. 5997. Felted hats are made, in the first place, of a thick close felt of wool mixed with some kmd of hair ; this is called the foundation ; and on the outside of the hat a finer kind of hair is worked in, which, in the best hats, consists of the fur of the beaver, whence the term beaver hats. Some hats appear formerly to have been made entirely of beaver ; but this is never done now, on account of the scarcity of the material. There are a great many qualities of hats, from the various kinds of hair made use of either in the founda- tion or in the covering. Our object is not to go into all the minutia; of hat-making as a trade, which would extend far beyond our limits, but only to convey a general idea of the mode in which these articles are formed. .TOOS. The process (if hnt making begins with felting, whicli consists in a method of working up wool or hair into a species of cloth, independently of either spinning or weiiving, and the mechanism of the process df*pt'nds in a great measure upon the conformation of all animal hairs and wool, which disposes them to unite by pressure and heat, so as to produce a compact and firm substance. The first process in hat felting is to obtain the most complete separation of the fibres, and to dispose a layer of them in every possible dircctioa with regard to each other. For this purpose a quantity of the hair or wool is laid upon a platform of wood about four feel wide, and struck repeatedly by means of a bow and string. The workman holding tlie bow in his left hand, and placing the bow-string near to the material, plucks it towards him by a pin; the string in dying back is made to strike into the wool or other material, and scatters a portion of it to a considerable distance, occasioning it to fall down in a regular layer. By repeated strokes of the bow-string, the whole heap is at last thoroughly loosened, and spread over a part of the platform in an even layer; this is then brought together by the hand into some regular form, according to the kind of hat to be made, and folded up in a wet cloth ; it is then laid upon a warm iron plate, and the process of felting is Carried on by pressing it by the hands in various directions, and sprinkling with water, by which the mass acquires a certain degree of con- sistency from tlie fibres of the hair or wool entangling together. Before the felting is completed, a qu.antity of fine fur, either of the beaver, or some other animal, as the rabbit, camel, &c., is laid on the outside of the felt, in such a manner as that the ends of the hairs point one way, as on the animal; these are worked in so as to be fixed in the felt, and completely to cover it; and upon the goodness of this fur will in a great measure be the quality of the hat. The hats are at first made into a conical form ; and, to render them still 'firmer, they are now boiled with some alkali, and felted again with hot water, and the conical cap is by various processes put upon a block of the desired shape, and worked on till it fits. The edge or rim is now worked out, aui cut into the proper shape. The hat is next dried; and its nap is raised or loosened by rubbing it with a brush of wire, and .sometimes it is pumiced, to take off the coarser hairs, and afterwards smooihod w ith seal .>.kin. It is then tied securely upon its block, and dyed black in the usual manner. After being dyini, it is stiffened; this is done by various substances. The most coinmon hats are stiffened with glue, or with gum Senegal; but beer grounds are first applied to the inside as a cheap mucilage, to prevent the glue from coming through to the surface. If the hats are to be waterproof, some substance is used that will not be .softened by rain. For this purpose a varnish is used composed of shell-lac, sanderach, mastic, and other resins dissolved in alcohol or naphtha ; some use a solution of India rubber. The finishing of the hat is produced by softening them a little by exposure to steam, aud brushing and ironing them till the required gloss is produced. Lining aud l)inding complete the process. 6999. T/tc mnUrials viadc use of for felted hats are chiefly the fur of the beaver, rabbit, and hare, sheep's wool, cimel's and goat's hair, cotton, and silk ; the first is by far the most esteemed, on account of its silky soilness. The fm s of the hare, the rabbit, and the beaver, being naturally straight, cannot be felted by them- selves, till thev have acquired a curling property at their points; this is given by the application of nitrate of mercury, an artifice called secrctage. Ncustria is an article lately introduced into the manufacture of hats; it is the fur of an animal of that name, a species of water rat, resembling the otter, and is as fine as the fur of the beaver. Within these fifteen or twenty years, it has been largely imported from South America, to the amount of 800,(100 skins .annually. tiOOO. 7'//p colours of felled hats arc black, white, and drab ; the first are, of course, dyed. White hats are worn only by ladies, and have a nap of rabbits' fur, selected from the white skins. Drab hats for men arc made of stuff of the natural colour, assorted on purpose ; they arc used for summer wear, absorbing the sun's . rays less than black, and being consequently cooler ; they are likewise proper for the sea-side, the spray of the salt water injuring the colour of black hats. fiOOl. Silk hats are made by fixing a kind of plush with a long nap of silk upon a body of felt, chip, straw plat, or some other material ; they have lately come much into use, from their cheapness, and keeping their colour. Severid improvements have lately been made in silk hats. When they were first manufactured, they were liable to two objec- tions ; the body was hard, consisting of pasteboard, and was apt to hurt the head, from want of elasticity ; aiid the edge of the crown, being ranch exposed to wear, the silk nap soon got abraded, so as to lay bare the cotton foundation, whence the hat assumed a shabby appearance. Afterwards the body was made of felted wool, and the joining of the side