PRESENT STYLE OF FURNITURE. 219 iJhap. IX. irraclesmen of every description, I have, after the most laborious research, only been able 1.0 find two men to whose industry and talent I could in some measure confide tlie exe- Li!ution of the more complicate and more enriched portion of my designs ; the first a I'oronzist, and a native of France ; the other a carver, born in the Low Countries. I need caot add how slow and tedious this scarcity of workmen has rendered the completion of !;iny little collection." It was at length, however, completed ; and the novelty and beauty Df the style soon had much of the beneficial effect which Mr. Hope anticipated. By the ppportuuity which he aiforded of viewing this superb collection, the taste of the public vTas somewhat improved, and the manufacturer was stimulated to procure the means of inmitating, in some degree at least, the examples set before him. It must be remarked, iiiowever, that Mr. Hope's taste and knowledge of design in furniture, though superior to »That previously existed here, was far from being perfect; and, with much that was excel- lent, the style, if strictly adhered to, was scarcely adapted for general use. It was too iinuch limited to the classical style which he aimed at; and even in that view it contained ■(lomewhat of repetition, as must almost always be expected when the whole proceeds frrom a single mind; but it is only justice to Mr. Hope to state, that he was aware of this ■lifficulty and objection, and offers his labours to the student in the arts, not as models for iiiuere servile copying, but to show how, by applying to the same sources from which he iirew his ideas, a new line of art might be opened, capable of endless improvement. It must be admitted, that an immense debt of gratitude is due to the memory of Mr. Hope iibr this noble example of the mode in which a man of fortune may benefit and improve v.ociety, by refining taste and furnishing employment to the industrious. It had at once bhe effect of producing a complete revolution in our furniture, which from that time has Meen improved in a very great degree. CHAP. IX. PRESENT STYLE OF FUKNITimE. With respect to the style of furniture in fashion at the present time in this country, it >s difiicult to say what it is, and indeed it does not admit of any accurate description. The iblassical style of Percier and Fontaine, and we may add that of Mr. Hope, the Flemish or ISlizabethan, that of the time of Francis I., that of Louis Quatorze (see examples of chairs' iin each of these styles, in Sect. VIII. Chap. X.), the Gothic, and even the Chinese, have i ill lent their aid to supply ideas; and this branch has been so much improved since >Mr. Hope commenced his reform, that, instead of the extreme paucity of talent of which line complained, we now possess a few able designers and carvers who are chiefly in the iimiployment of our first upholsterers. At the present moment, however, the strictly iiuassical style is not in vogue, probably, in a great measure, from the same kind of difli- rjulties experienced by Mr. Hope, and its consequent expense. It is a character of the present period to possess, in particular, the revival of two styles which had been for many ; fears laid aside ; namely, that of Louis Quatorze, and that now called Elizabethan, each l of which will demand a few farther observations. 1027. The style of Louis Quatorze is hiown, as we have stated, by its abimdance of 1 ight ornamental scroll work and foliage. Its elegance of form, though not of the first liDrder, together with its admission of every species of enrichment, as carving, gilding, I painting, inlaying, with coverings of the richest silks, velvets, and the choicest stuffs, aadmirably adapt it for the modern drawingroom. Certainly no kind of furniture equals i'lt in the general splendour of appearance ; and, at the same time, all the decorative part is •of such a quality, that it can be executed by artizans of the second and third grades ; the riHguro, which demands the first, being very seldom introduced. Hence its cost is much l.lcss, in proportion to its show, than where artists of greater skill are required. ^ 1028. Oil the style usually called Elizabethan, including that of Francis I., and the fplemish, we have already made some remarks in our " History of Furniture." Notwith- -tstanding the influence of fashion, and taste for novelty, which are apt to warp our judg- ement, it is impossible seriously to admire tliis style in genuine examples; and we have ■ already alluded to its general coarseness and clumsiness of form, and want of adaptation i to its use, although occasionally it is rich in effect, and interesting through a certain lassociation of ideas. It is curious to observe the steps by which certain styles, obsolete ifor so many years, have been revived and brought again into fashion. At first this was la subject merely of antiquarian research, which was made interesting, not merely by col- lecting ancient articles, but by repairing and restoring some of them to their pristine appearance. Some apartments in ancient mansions remaining entire, these were afler- 'wai-ds supplied by ancient furniture, together with restorations and imitations of these. 'Next, zealous individuals went so far as to build liouses in the style of the olden time, tiie