1181 Chap. VII. PIGS, AND THEIR MANAGEMENT. on which cleanliness has a more evidently beneficial effect, so far as feeding and fattening are ennccined. rigs are particularly liable to disorders of the skin, and to vermin, probably from their gross feeding; and cleanliness assists very much to remove these. It is good management to give them occasionally a little sulphur and nitre with their meat: «'hen first put up to feed, some add a small portion of antimony. Some pigs are liable to inflammatory disorders, which are seldom curable. To prevent this some wash and scrub them every week. 6995. The pig is a voracious animal, gross in his feeding, and almost omnivorous. He ■will devour animal matter, but it is chiefly on vegetable food that he is fed. He -will graze, eat cabbage leaves, common and Swedish turnips or turnip tops ; carrots, parsnips, and mangel-vrurzel: potatoes afford him much nutriment, but should never be given raw, but alwaj's boiled, and the water in -which they "were boiled should be thrown away. Besides this, all the peelings and refuse of potatoes, cabbages, and other vegetables, and greasy slops from the scuUery are made up into a wash for the pigs; and there should be a spout leading out of the wall of that place conveying it into proper receptacles for carrying it to the hog cistern, or trough. Pigs will thrive and be in tolerably good condition when kept upon food of this kind ; but besides this there is another stage in his feeding, which is fattening him for the butcher. For this, food of a more nourishing quality is requisite; and farinaceous food is found to be more fattening, such as barley meal, pea meal, and buck wheat; these are boiled with milk, or mixed with other kinds of food. If pigs are suffered to gorge themselves with food, they are liable to have surfeit and indigestion, which is removed by abstinence for a day, or giving nothing but a warm mash, with bran or poUard. 6996. In fattening sucking pigs, all that is requisite is to keep the mother well lodged and nourished. Weaned pigs when to be fatted, are to be kept constantly on whey, or skim milk, or butter-mUk, with frequently an addition of peas or beans, or barley meal. Such good keeping makes them increase rapidly in size, and renders them fit for use at an early age. 6997. When pigs are of a proper age to fatten for pork or bacon, they are kept in the sty, and well fed with the best food. This must vary somewhat according to circum- stances ; but certain kinds of food are usually employed for this purpose. MUk, whey and scullery wash, with steamed potatoes, meal of barley, peas and beans boiled with milk, are all fattening materials ; also Swedish turnips and carrots boiled or steamed. Potatoes, if raw are of little use to fatten, and hence the inferiority of the greatest part of the Irish bacon that comes to market; they are much more nutritive if boiled. Grains from the distiller are likewise used where they can be obtained ; and here it may be proper to notice an error respecting the last. It is a general idea that distillers' grains are the cause of a constant intoxication of the pigs, and hence that their flesh cannot be healthy; but it is a mistake to suppose that there is any spirit left in the grains; observation has shewn that pigs fed upon such food are quite as healthy as any other. Bacon, however, fatted upon porridge of barley meal and skim milk is the finest. A pig may be fattened in about six weeks or two months. Young porkers are gene- rally fattened between October and Christmas ; if fed on boiled peas or beans, or meal from them, for the last fortnight, the flesh and fat will be firmer. A little salt sprinkled with their food will often make them relish it better. There is no necessity that the wash from the scullery should be always given fresh ; on the contrary, pigs seem to pre- fer that which has been accumulated and kept a little so as to be stale or sourish, and perhaps beginning to ferment, on which account some recommend having several tubs or cisterns to collect it in, so that one may be emptying while another is filling. 6998. The hog cistern for containing the wash is best made of stone or slate : wooden vessels are liable to decay, and lead is dangerous. Some have been made of brick and Roman cement, or bricks laid in strong ferruginous clay lined with a coat of the same so as to be perfectly water-tight. A slanting shed roof should be placed over them ; and it may be sunk in the ground with advantage, to prevent freezing in winter. The feeding trough ought to be kept very clean, and frequently washed out with hot water. C999. Where a single cow is kept, much cannot be expected from her for the pies : and vet many a cottiuer contrives with that, and the refuse of his garden, with offal of his kitchen, not only to keep one, and perhaps il?;^"ll",l!l,"™„i ,'™„.wP."!.''.'y- -rY!?™. l'"'e. ™o'-e tl'an potatoes are employed to fatten, the quantities 1 peck a day in 9G lbs., may be management""" * °'' weight. With one cow, two pigs may bo iiept w1th"gooa