Book 1. ON THE DOMESTIC RESIDENCE. 16 amusing; and are calculated to display some taste, though not of a highly refined nature. Many of the forms are not a little uncouth ; yet there is in the whole an air of richness and costliness, and the spectator is often so captivated with the general magnificence, as to be little disposed to criticise the individual parts. Considering its history and origin, and that it was the'produce of a period when the arts were at a low ebb, it would be in vain to look for more. It harmonises with the costume of the period when it took its rise. 42. Doubtless, if any one acknowledged style is to be aimed at, it will be a particular merit ill the designer to exhibit a technical acquaintance with it, and to give its true character; but it may be a question whether it be necessary, at the present day, that our domestic architecture should be strictly either Grecian, Gothic, or Elizabethan. Should this question be resolved in the afiirmative, the business of the architect will be brought within certain limits : he would then be, in a great measure, confined to the study of the models before him, and his powers of invention less caUed upon. In comparing the various styles, and in endeavouring to fix their comparative values from designs, it should be kept in mind as a well-known fact, that an artist of sldU, possessed of the principles of composition, may make excellent designs* in any given style ; and therefore his success will be no proof of the merit of a style, which may appear better or worse according to the talent of the designer. Much will depend likewise upon the particular bias of the architect: one may have studied Gothic architecture much, but may have paid less attention to any other; he will, of course, be most likely to succeed in what he is best acquainted with. Those architects who first introduced Grecian architecture into this country, as Inigo Jones and Sir Christopher Wren, though men of great talent, have left us only miserable attempts at Gothic, which they had not studied sufficiently; and we find, on looking over the com- positions of living artists, a great inequality in the mei'it of their designs, according to the particular bent of their studies. It is therefore easy to see how we may be misled by confining ourselves to particular examples, and how necessary it is to take into our con- sideration an almost infinite variety of circumstances in criticising architecture. 43. It viust be obvious, from what we have already stated, that we are not inclined to give our full approbation % either the Gothic or Elizabethan styles uf architecture for general adoption, notwithstanding the argument of their nationality; nor do we see any good reason why a modern house should look as if it had been erected centuries ago, and why it should not rather exhibit the result of every recent discovery and improvement in the arts of building and domestic economy; nor why any of these should be sacrificed to feelings merely of association. Why should we look backwards, instead of forwards, in the history of society, and content ourselves with copying or reviving obsolete forms which have no particular merit, instead of exercising invention in producing something of greater excellence ? In fine, why should architecture be so fettered, any more than other branches of the fine arts ? In painting, the artist of the present day is not the most esteemed who can produce only a good imitation of a Poussin, a Claude, a Cuyp, or a Berghem. So far has the art of landscape advanced, that though the artist has availed himself of the works of these masters, he must likewise give proofs of his deep study of nature, the source of their excellence, and combine this with original thinking. Indeed, so far must he be from appearing a servile copyist of any one's manner, that he will be the less thought of should he strongly remind us of his predecessors. It is very true, that originality in architecture is far more difficult than in any other branch of the fine arts ; because, as we have already observed, in the latter there is the wide range of nature to refer to. But would it not be possible for the architect to employ the works of his predecessors in the same way that landscape painters have done? — selecting whatever is excellent, but also combining this with his own inventions, suggested in a great measure by the ever-varying habits of society, in so skilful a manner that his compositions may appear so far original as to render it impossible to discover whence they were derived. 44. In the meantime there is a style admirably suited for Ote villa, both from its pic- turesque effect, and from the facility with wliich it might be adapted to domestic p\ir- poses. This style is known among architects under the designation of the Irregular Italian, and of which a tolerable idea may be formed from examples to be seen in the buildings introduced with the landscapes of the Italian school, as Claude, Poussin, &e. It was founded upon the villas of Italy of a few centuries back, which were composed from partial antique remains in the Roman character, with additions in a style somcwhnt different, and derived, in some cases, from the castellated manner which had bccomo necessary for defence, together with forms suggested by climate, the whole being highly picturesque, a quality, however, derived more from accident than from any studied intention as to effect. In proof of its picturesque beauty, it is sufficient to observe that it is always to this day chosen by landscape painters of the highest class in their principal compositions. We do not mean to say that perfect examples of this style can be pointed out fit for actual imitation, but enough has .been done to suggest ideas to a skilful designer. Regularity in the exterior, though essential m public buildings, does not a]ipear to be