ON THE MAKING OF VINEGAR. 663 (Chap. VI. U U 4 i-clear, it is again racked off, and is fit for sale. The usual calculation is that one barrel oof malt will make thirty gallons of good house vinegar. From the above account it is evident that common vinegar is a very impure and very ddilute acetic acid, containing, besides the acid and water, a large quantity of mucilage, ^sorne colouring matter, a little spirit, and a little sulphuric acid added by the manufacturer, Mwhich is permitted by the Excise. Its agreeable odour and taste are well known, and its ccolour varies from straw yellow to deep brownish red. 3737. The colour of vinegar VM-les according to the materials from which it has been oobtained ; what is manufactured in England is usually artificially coloured by burnt sugar. 3738. Alegar is made by fermenting strong ale upon the cuttings of the vine, unripe igrapes, or cheap raisins, and proceeding as in common vinegar. SuBSECT. 4. — Vinegar from various Substances. 3739. As vinegar may be made from all substances capable of being fermented, or which ocontain saccharine matter, the sources from which vinegar may be obtained are numerous. IFor this purpose, in domestic economy, various materials are occasionally employed, as < sugar, either white or brown, raisins and sugar, currants, gooseberries, apples, or other ffruit; and, if attention be given to the right principles, the process of making vinegar ifrom all of these is by no means difficult. 3740. To make sugar vinegar.—Take four pounds of the cheapest loaf sugar, and add t to it three gallons of boiling water in a tub : this is about the proportion that would make 3 a strong wine. When the solution has cooled to blood heat, ferment it with two or three t table-spoonfuls of yeast, in the same manner as beer is fermented. Continue the fermen- r tation for a few days, until the vinous fermentation is completely at an end, which is I-known by the sweetness having disappeared. The yeast must then be skimmed off, and ! the liquor poured into a small cask, leaving the dregs at the bottom. The cask should 1 not be above three parts full, and it should be set either in the sim, or near the kitchen f fire, with its bung-hole only covered with a loose tile or slate. The temperature in which 1 it is kept should be as uniform as possible, about 80° ; after a few weeks, the liquor will tbe foimd sour; this sourness will increase, and in about eight months will be sufficient. .■ A quantity of sediment will be deposited in the cask, and the vinegar must be drawn off '' by a gimlet hole, made a little way above the bottom. K it is not transparent, it may Ibe fined by isinglass, after which it may be bottled ; the bottles should be kept in a cool [place. If after some months the vinegar appears turbid, it should be decanted, strained, J and bottled again; and it may be necessary to repeat this more than once, for aU common ^ vinegar, home-made or purchased, is liable to this change. 3741. Another method, which is considered by some as superior, is the following : — Dissolve sugar in hot J water in the proportion of eighteen ounces of sugar to every gallon of hot water ; when the solution has -cooled down to 75°, add a sufficient quantity of yeast to cause it to ferment. In two or three days the fer- niientation will have pretty well advanced ; then pour off the clear wash from the lees into a cask, and add an c ounce of crude tartar, and one of bruised raisins, for every gallon of water. Expose the whole to the aceti- ffying process for the usual time, as in the last method ; then rack off the vinegar, and fine it; bottle it. 3742. Fruit vinegar is made by fermenting the juice of various fruits; but as they tmust possess saccharine matter sufficient to bring on the vinous fermentation, some fruits V which have too little sugar, as currants and gooseberries, must have some added to their j juice. Some persons, from economy, make vinegar from the pulp and husks of grapes, ^gooseberries, raisins, or other fruits, after wine has been made from the juice. Add half I its weight of coarse sugar to the pulp ; when it begins to ferment, add a gallon of boiling I water for every two pounds; stir it well, and let it steep for two days; then strain it; twhen cool, ferment it with yeast for a week or ten days, and then put it into a barrel, with ;ia pint of vinegar, and two ounces of loaf sugar, for every gallon. Lay a loose tile over I the bung of the cask ; set it in a warm place, and in three months it will be complete ; I then bung it. 3743. Treacle vinegar may be made in a similar manner. 3744. Cyder vinegar is made by fermenting the juice of good apples, which require no -sugar; or it is made from cyder which has become too sour to drink, or any poor cyder. A cask that has been previously used for holding vinegar is best to make it in. Some imix cyder and honey for making vinegar. .IT'IS. Any sort of wine, whether foreign or domestic, that has not turned out well, may be easily converted I into vinegar, by infusing it in pounded gooseberries, currants, raisins, or the marc remaining alter making 1 home-made wine of jiny kind ; then straining it off, and exposing it to the air in the proper temperature. 3746. Gooseberry vinegar. —Take gooseberries when full ripe ; mash them in a tub or marble mortar, and to ■every quart of the mashed fruit add three quarts of water ; stir this well, let it stand twenty-lour hours, and •striiin It through a coarse bag. To every gallon of the strained liquor add four pounds of brown sugar, or 1 four pounds and a half of honey ; the latter is preferable. Put the mixture into a barrel, which it should fill labout three-lourths, .and add to eight or nine gallons of it one pint of good ale yeast; cover the bung-hole of the cask with a slate, to exclude the dust, and pl.acc the barrel In the sun ni summer, or a little ;iway from the lire in winter. The mixture will soon hi gin to rorment. Continue the fermentation, by keeplnR • the liquor at the same temperature, till the taste and odour indicate that the vinegar is complete VVhcn the liquor has become perfectly clear, draw it off into bottles. It will keep much better, if it be heated