409 FISH. cChap. VI. 2125. Little attention is paid to the mode of hilling fish, as the object is to keep them lalive as long as possible ; but many of them die as soon as they are talien out of the water. IThe Dutch take great care to bring them alive to market, and those that die are sold at san inferior price ; but though this ensures their being fresh, yet when they are kept long aalive, the fish become exhausted, and are worse in quality than if they had been killed Mwhen caught, and kept only the proper time: when preserved in the wells of ships, they lare frequently rendered poor. Fish, in general, are extremely voracious, the greater mumber being carnivorous, feeding upon each other, the greater on the smaller; thus the ocod pursues the whiting ; but some fish live upon marine plants. 2126. While fish, whose muscles are the finnest and least oily and viscid, possess the lanost valuable qualities as food, and are in particular the best calculated for invalids. These, .comprehending the cod, ling, tusk, coalfish, haddock, and whitings; also the flat fisl^, as tturbot, skate, soles, and flounders, swarm about the British shores, and particularly in the ' whole northern sea from the Dogger bank, in lat. 54°, to the northern extremity of Ice- IJand, in lat. 67°; from the coast of Norway eastward to an unknown distance on the west, nmay be considered as one great fishery, in which Scotland, as lying in the centre, has a cmanifest advantage over all other nations. The number of friths and inlets of the sea, lOn the west coast of Scotland, render that country peculiarly favourable for the prosecu- tiion of fisheries. T7ie 7nuscles of tlie red-coloured fish, as salmon, trout, &c., are of a peculiar tint, which hhas acquired the name of salmon colour, and the fish are generally esteemed in proportion t to the height of this colour. They are always more or less of a fat or oily nature. 2127. Flat fish are called by naturalists Pleuronectidae. They have no swimming bbladder, and therefore keep close at the bottom. Both eyes are on one side, and that >6ide is uppermost: when disturbed, they sometimes make a rapid shoot, changing their iposition from the horizontal to the vertical, but they soon settle down again into their I'former position. Mr. Yarrell observes, that those fishes which swim at the bottom of the sea are so ^constructed as to consume but a small quantity of oxygen, and have their blood only two f or three degrees warmer than the temperature of the water at the surface : but they have a lihigh degree of muscular irritability; they retain life long after they are taken out of the Twater, and their flesh remains good for several days. Various flat fish, and the eel, are sseen gaping and writhing on the stalls of the fishmongers for hours in succession. On t the contrary, those fish which usually swim near the surface of the water have a high degree ■of respiration, and their blood has a warmer temperature, which in the case of the Bonito :iamounts to 90° when the water is 80°. These have little irritability, and generally die las soon as they are taken out of the water, which is also the case with the mackarel, -salmon, trout, and herring. In consequence of this, the latter class of fishes soon de- compose or spoil after they are killed; and, to be in perfection, should be prepared for the table the day they are caught; whereas turbot is better for being kept a day or two, since tthey are tough while any u-ritability exists. 2128. The mode of cooking fish considerably affects their properties as food. Plain hboiling, baking, and roasting, appear to be the methods that prepare it in the fittest lananner. There appears no reason why stewing should be objectionable, except that it is .usually accompanied by numerous additions that render it extremely indigestible, for in- sstance, port wine. The various sauces commonly eaten with fish are probably the cause "of most of the faults laid to the charge of this useful aliment ; these sauces are to be sus- i'pected, when purchased, as we cannot at all times be certain of their composition ; and it lis well known that they are sometimes deleterious. The observation which we have noften made applies here in a particular manner ; namely, that it is of the first importance we should know what we eat and drink. Few species of vegetables appear to be eaten with fish. Potatoes and parsneps are the principal of those which are found by expe- rrience to agree well. 2129. A process called crimping is sometimes adopted for the purpose of improving cod -ind some other fish. Sir Anthony Carlisle has investigated the change thus produced; and we are indebted to him for some curious observations upon the subject. Whenever ' the rigid contraction has not taken place, the process may be practised with success. IThe sea fish destined for crimping are usually sti-uck on the head, when caught, which, it is said, protracts the term of its irritability ; and the muscles which retain this property longest are those about the head. Many transverse sections of the muscles being made, land the fish immersed in cold water, the contractions caused by this crimping take place in about five minutes ; but if the mass be large, it often requires thirty minutes to com- plete the process, which is for the purpose of giving firmness to the fish. It has been found, that the muscles subjected to this process have both their absolute weight and ■specific gravity increased ; whence it appears that water is absorbed, and condensation ■is produced. This operation improves the flavour, as well as the digestibility of the fish.