.Chap. II. SICKNESS IN THE NURSERY. 1203 vcatiors of the governess of early childhood, provided she can teach how to observe and i inquire. Unfortunately for children most parents think otherwise, and undervalue the I rousing power, while they overrate the mechanical. It is true that reading, writing, : arithmetic, means of acquiring future learning, must be taught to children, and there are (times in each day which they could not better employ than in acquiring these arts. There rare few ladies employed in early tuition who cannot cleverly instruct in even more than t these. Yet they may not succeed in obtaining that influence over the minds of children, iimperceptible, yet felt, by which their intelligence may be quickened, and their ductile aafifections regulated and directed. When such power exists over childhood, no deficiency iin minor acquisitions should impair the value placed upon it. CHAP. n. SICKireSS IN THE NTIRSERT. Sect. I, GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 7127. The following suggestions regarding some of the diseases incidental to child- Uiood are of a practical nature, and intended only for inexperienced mothers, nurses, or ffor any others who have the chai'ge of the few first years of childhood. Amongst this cclass of individuals, some are always to be found who indulge in an excess of apprehen- ssion when variations occur in the health of the children they have in charge. Others eevince a different feeling; are either unconscious of, or supine when alarming symptoms oof disease in children are really apparent. In the former case, medical aid is often need- Idessly called for, in the other, that aid is sometimes fatally neglected. The following pages offer instructions to both descriptions of persons having this de- ssirable end in view—the allaying of needless, or the awakening of timely, apprehension: hberein no instruction or suggestion will be given that in its application would prove diangerous. The line beyond which the non-medical superintendent of the health of cbhildren should not pass is strictly defined; and the moment medical advice should be SGOught for, is as accurately stated as the nature of the subject wiU admit of. 7128. The common and simple afiections which attack the majority of children will be fcbund in these pages plainly but briefly detailed, together with the symptoms of some of thhe more serious diseases, to carry out the object we have stated, namely, that trifling ccomplaints may not cause unnecessary alarm, nor important cases easily escape observa- iidon. 7129. We would here remark that were much time expended in describing s3TTiptoms uind treatment of severe diseases, however lucid and comprehensive such description ■might be, they could never qualify parents on such occasions to supply with safety the )blace of medical men. On the same ground, it will be useless to describe the complaints >bf the first few days of a child's life, because a medical man is at that time always in at- tendance. 7130. Before describing any particular disease, certain alterations in the natural actions i6f the child must be noticed, which, as denoting the occurrence of disease, are particularly important; they may be easily observed by the mother or nurse, and when noticed, they ibhould be immediately mentioned to the physician or other medical man in attendance. " Sect. II. I alterations in natural actions which are to be observed by the nurse. 7131. These deviations from accustomed action may be comprised under the following ads : — Alterations in the countenance of an infant ; in the gestures ; in the cry; in the unner of sucking; in sleep ; in the mode of breathing; in the skin. 7132. Alterations in the countenance These are not lightly to be passed over. When here is pain in the head, the brows are contracted ; the eye is generally heavy and some- . hat anxious ; when in the bowels, there is an elevation and retraction of the upper lip. Again, if pain be spasmodic, at the moment of seizure the brow contracts, and the child Iters a cry ; but the brow is not constantly knitted, as it is when continued pain is pre- ent. In convulsions too, before the attack, a change in the countenance occurs, difficult to 4 H 2 Ai