^CUAP. IV. LAMPS. 167 M 4 there, and forces the acid to ascend through the tube into the upper vessel, the air in which escapes through the stopper loosely fitted. As soon as the production of hydrogen has gone on so far as to occasion the acid to descend to the lower part of the zinc, all further action of course ceases, and the upper part of a remains filled with the gas. From this part of the vessel, a tube, d, projects, furnished with a stop-cock, and the extremity of this tube turns downwards terminating in e, where a jet of hydrogen issues on opening the cock. Immediately below this is a little cup, /, to hold the spongy platina ; and this cup may be moved further off or nearer by means of the wire g, which slides up and down through a collar. When a light is wanted, the cock is tui'ned, a jet of hydrogen falls upon the platina, which inflames the hy- drogen, and is itself made red-hot, and capable of igniting a match. This glass apparatus is sometimes for security fitted up in a mahogany frame of elegant form, and is extremely convenient in a library or bedchamber, being quite free from the usual ob- jections to apparatus of this kind. It will continue fit for use, until the zinc becomes quite dissolved, or the acid saturated, when , it must be replenished with these materials. The little cup with platina is secured from damp and dust by a brass cap ; and should the platina by dampness lose its property of igniting Fig. H7. t]jg gas, it may be restored by heating it on the blade of a knife c over a spirit lamp, or clean candle. The spongy platina is prepared by moistening the muriate of ammonia and platina (with a concentrated solution of ammonia ; the paste formed is to be heated to redness in an earthen or platina crucible. 741. Pyrophorus. Several prepared substances take fire on exposure to air, without the J application of heat, which were formerly used occasionally for obtaining a light: a sub- s stance of this kind was called by chemists pyrophorus; and though better methods have since been invented, it may be useful on some particular occasions to be acquainted with 1 their composition. Homberg's pyrophorus was the oldest discovery of this kind. It was r made by mixing three parts of alum with two or three parts of honej% flour, sugar, or a any animal or vegetable matter: this mixture is to be heated in a crucible till the mass is \ burned black : or, to save trouble, bximed alum may be mixed at once with charcoal [ powder. This is now to be put into a phial, or a matrass, with a neck six inches long. The vessel, however, must not be charged above three quarters full: it is then to be put into a crucible, and surrounded by sand: the crucible is to be put into a furnace among red hot coals, and kept in a red heat for a quarter of an hour, tiU a sulphureous blue vapour appears, and the fire is to be kept up till this disappears. The matrass is next to \ be removed, and its mouth kept closed for some time. The powder is then to be taken out and kept in a vial, with a glass stopper. A little of the pyrophorus shaken out on ; an easily inflammable substance, such as dry cotton, will set it on fire immediately. A very good pyrophorus may be made by simply mixing three parts of alum with one of wheat flour, calcining them in a common phial, well stopped with a good cork, when t cold. 742. Phosphoric fire bottles. Phosphorus takes fire very readily when rubbed; which [ property has been employed in procuring an instantaneous light. A common match is •. dipped into a small bottle containing phosphorus, a minute portion of which adheres to I it: the match is then rubbed lightly upon a smooth piece of cork, which causes instant com- ' bustion. The manner of putting in the phosphorus is the following : a very small glass : phial is procured, and any substance put in to fill it within a small distance : then eighteen or twenty grains of phosphorus is cut into small pieces and put into the remaining part of • the phial, leaving room for the cork. The part of the phial containing the phosphorus is heated cautiously with a blow pipe, till the phosphorus melts, and the bottle is com- pleted. These fire bottles are rather dangerous. 74.3. Afire box is made by dipping matches charged with chlorate of potash (formerly • called oxymuriate of potash) into sulphuric acid, which causes instant ignition. These boxes have been very much used. The matches are prepared by dipping them into oil of turpentine, and drying them: a mixture is then made of an equal weight of finely : powdered chlorate of potash and flowers of sulphur, to which is usually added about an eighth part of vermilion, merely to colour it. This compound is then mixed up with oil of turpentine to the consistence of a paste, and the points of the matches dipped into it. ■ Some asbestos is put into a very small phial, and on that a few drops of strong sulphuric acid : the use of the asbestos is merely to prevent the acid from doing mischief by spill- ing. Some use sugar instead of the sulphur; and employ spirit of wine'to make the paste. Vast quantities of these are used in Paris, and are got up in circular paper cases at a very small expense. It is necessary to put those who attempt to make their matches