GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Book XI. 846 4778. Wire bashets, fig. 728., with wh-e handles, are for crisping parsley or any similar thing, over the fire. 4779. Sjwon drippers, fig. 729., arc for liangiiig large spoons and ladles on, with a trough below to catch the drippings, tliat they may not soil tables, if laid on tliera ; it is made of tin, and fixed against the wall. ■\ s. u ( ) 1 fife. 729. 4780. Glaxc pots, fig. 7.10., are for keeping the strong meat jelly called glaze; this is put into a tin vessel that is inserted into another containing boiling water, in the manner of a glue pot; a hole in the lid is for the brush. 4781. Spice and flour boxes In cooking, frequently a few minutes are of great value, and the loss of them a serious inconvenience. It is essential, not merely to the comfort of the cooks, but to the perfection of their processes, by enabling them to acquire precision, that all their apparatus, even apparently of the most trifling kind, should be well contrived for expedition. In a well-furnished kitchen, such as alone will enable the cooks to get up the best dinners, everything should be studied as in a chemical laboratory. Fig. 731. is a tin box with three divisions: the largest for flour ; and of the two smaller, one is for pepper, and the other for salt. Fig. 732. is also a tin box with several divisions, for pepper, salt, T3oth mixed, and also for various spices for immediate use, and which are to be always at hand. Tin spice boxes, with divi- sions for keeping various kinds of spice, are sold at the ironmongers' Fig. 732. Fig. 731. 4782. Mortars and pestles are necessary. In considerable establishments, large mortars of marble placed upon a firm stand are requisite. Smaller mortars of brass are likewise used. 4783. Machines for weighing are very necessary in every family, that the housekeeper may keep a check upon the tradesmen, and for proportioning various ingredients. The common scales are too ■well known to require description. Fig. 733. is a weighing machine now generally used as much more convenient. The articles to be weighed are put into the scale, a, which lies loose on a cross piece similar to b. The weights are put into the square dish, c, and when it descends it gives the weight required. The construc- tion on the principle of the lever is easily understood from the figure. Fig. 734. Fig. 733. Fig. 734. is a weighing machine generally used for domestic purposes, where larger and heavier articles are to be weighed. It will weigh three hundredweight. Both the above are constructed wholly of iron.