Chap. IV. G23 DOMESTIC WINES. ■with the manufacture of dry -wines, and in some degree with the sparkling and frothy kinds. S505. All attempts have been, and probably ever will be, fruitless in endeavouring to dis- cover -what was the taste, flavour, or even the colour of the best wines of the ancients, so as to compare them accurately with those of modern date. A principal difficulty in the description of the qualities of various wines arises from the imperfection of language, which is scarcely capable of conveying, in a perfect manner, by any selection of words, the flavours peculiar to certain wines. It is true that when qualities are of the ordinary or usual kind, they may be nearly discriminated by certain expressions; thus, port may be described as rough or astringent ; Rhine wines as sharp or tart; malmsey, bitter, sweet, &c. But no terms can convey an accurate idea of all the delicate and nice distinctions which the palate readily perceives, and which each person will endeavour to express in such language as appears to him fittest for the purpose, but which will seldom be found to convey any other than ideas extremely vague. It is probable from the descriptions that some of the wines of ancient Greece were not unlike those made in that country in the present day. Others are supposed to have resembled the sweet luscious wines of the south o^ Europe, as those of Malaga ; and Dr. Henderson considers it as highly probable that the Falernian wine had the strongest analogies with our sherry and Madeira. Sect. III. MANUFACTUnE OF BRITISH OR DOMESTIC WINE. SuBSECT. 1.— Wine from. British Grapes. 3506. Introduction. We have already stated the superiority of grapes above every other fruit employed for making loine ; and that, indeed, it is the only fruit from which wine, properly so called, can be produced. The climate of Great Britain is certainly unfavour- able to the successful cultivation of the vine, and a general impression prevails that it is too cold for this purpose. Still it would be interesting to ascertain with accuracy how far art can in this, as well as in many other cases, overcome the difficulty which nature has placed before us. Various kinds of what are called home made wines are annually produced in England from grapes, and likewise from other native fruits; and although it is not possible by any management to render the latter equal to grape wine, yet they are extremely capable of improvement by a judicious mode of manufacture. 3507. Grape wine being the standard of perfection for vinous fluids, the nearer approach that is made to it in the fabrication of any other wine, the better it must be. It is essential, therefore, that the maker of domestic wines should first understand clearly the principles of preparing that procured from the vine ; and with this view, we shall lay down the best rules drawn from successful experiments, and the theoretical opinions of those scientific men who have devoted much attention to the subject. History of British Wine. 3508. The grape not being indigenous to Britain, wine was probably unknown to its inhabitants previous to the Roman conquest, except it had been brought by the Phoenicians, who are said to have planted the vine in some of the Mediterranean islands. It is sup- posed that it was only towards the latter term of the Roman power in this island that the vine was properly cultivated here. 3509. We are informed that about a.d. 85 vineyards in Italy had .so much Increased 1 that agriculture was neglected, in consequence of which Domitian prohibited planting any I more ; and that it was upon the removal of this edict by Probus, a. d. 280, the cultivation I of this plant was extended to Great Britain as well as the northern parts of Gaul and the ! banks of the Rhine. However this may be, and whether or not the Roman nobility of 1 Britain were obliged at first to import their wine, it is probable that vines grew in England rat the time of its invasion by the Anglo-Saxons ; for Bede the historian informs us that tthere were several vineyards here in his time, a.d. 731. 3510. At the time of the Norman conquest, it is certain that the culture of the vine fhad made some progress in Britain, for in Domesday Book mention is made of vineyards '■eight and thirty times, as well as of orchards and gardens : there was one at Westminster, janother at Ware in Hereford, and even Holbourne had its vineyard belonging to the IBishop of Ely. We find a record that there was an enclosure among the lands of Suien i in Essex of six arpents, which in good seasons yielded twenty model (hogsheads) of wine. IThe Isle of Ely was denominated L'Mc des Vignes by the Normans, and the Bishops of EEly, shortly after the conquest, received annually three or four tuns of wine as the tithes oof the vines in his diocese. In the archives of the church of Ely there is preserved an laccount of the prodnce of a vineyard for two or three years ; even the number of bushels