Book XIII. 888 RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. over the whole of the haunch with string ; baste the joint as soon as it becomes warm, and continue to do so, that the covering may not take fire. About twenty minutes before it is done, cut away the strings and remove the covering; empty the dripping-pan from the first bastings, and put some butter into it, to baste the haunch with after it lias been lightly dredged with flour. Garnish the knuckle with white paper cut with a ruflBe. Serve it with unseasoned mutton gravy and currant jelly, either cold or melted over the fire, and send up in a tureen. In the autumn, French beans are served with venison. 5013. Neck or shoulder of venison, roasted. —These having less fat than the haunch to be preserved, they need not be covered with paper, and they require less time before the fire. When a spit is used, pass three small skewers through the neck, that the spit may be passed on the outside instead of through the joint. 5014. stewed vejiison—Bone anil bent a shoulder of venison in order to make it tender. Soak some slices of mutton fat for a few hours in port wine, and lay them on the under side of the shoulder. Spfinkle on thorn some pepper md fniely powdered allspice. Then roll up the shoulder with the slices within, and tic it tightly together. Put it into a small stew-pan, ,ind cover it with a weal; mutton or beef broth, and half a pint of port wine. Cover it closely, and simmer it as slowly as possible for four hours. When done, open it, and lay the meat flat on a dish. Strain the gravy over it, and serve it with curraut jelly sauce. Very fat venison should not be thus dressed, but in some mode less rich. 5015. Hashed venison— Cut into slices underdone venison, and nut them into a stew-pan. Roll up half a pound of fresh butter in flour, and put it with two eschalots, finely chopped, into another stew-pan over a slow fire for about ten minutes. Then add to it half a pint of port wine, a pint of veal stock, and some venison gravy; lemon-peel, salt, cayenne, and one squeeze of lemon-juice. Boil all these together for a quarter of an hour, and put it to the slices of venison. Simmer the whole together for ten minutes, when it will be ready to serve. SOIG. Venison chops Divide a neck of venison into chops, trimming and boning them. Of the bones make gravy. Try the chops ofa lightbrown, and put them, when dune, on a hot dish, while a gravy is made for them in the i>an, consisting ofa few spoonfuls of that made from the bones, with an ounce of butter rolled in flour. Stir this all together in the pan until it becomes brown .ind begins to thicken. Add to it half a pound of sifted loaf sugar, a wine-glass of port, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. Made hot in the pan, and of the consistency of cream, it is poured over the cliops and served. Sect. II. POULTRY AND GAME. SuBSECT 1. — Poultry. 5017. Boiled fowls. — Choose white-legged fowls for boiling. Poultry loses weight in ■. boiling, owing to the boiling water extracting from them a considerable portion of nu- tritious matter. For this reason, put no more water to them than will barely cover them. If they are boiled in veal stock, the nutriment extracted from them wUl be less than if boiled simply in water. The veal broth gains something in strength, and may be after- wards employed as soup or stock. Never boil poultry in cloths ; prefer to secure their good appearance by carefully scumming. Accompaniments of boiled fowl: ham, bacon, tongue, and turnips ; oyster sauce, parsley and butter, or liver sauce. 5018. lioasted fowls.— The art of roasting poultry in perfection depends much on the management of the fire. If the fowls are placed too near, they wUl be scorched and blistered, which lets out the natural gravy, and leaves them dry and insipid. Put buttered paper over the breasts, which is to be removed before they are done, that they may ac- quire a fine brown. Baste them with butter as soon as they are put down. Roasted fowls require gravy. By some they are eaten with egg sauce. 5019. Fotvlsroasted in batter.—Bone the fowls, and stuff them with a ragout, and their breasts with a force, lard or not; or simply roast the fowls, without forcing or larding. Put the boiled gizzard and blanched liver under each wing; they should not be papered, as they must be brown. "When half roasted, baste them with batter till a surface is formed of nearly an inch in thickness. When crisp and brown, serve them on a sauce piquant. 5020. Broiled fowl with mmhrooms Slit the fowl down the back ; and, in the thicker parts, as the thighs and breast, score it to the bone, that it may be equally done. Brush over the inside and places where it is scored with some catsup ; then pepper it and broil it over a clear fire. When it is done, have ready the following sauce to pour over it: — Melt some butter and flour, and when it becomes of a fine brown, moi.^ten it with a spoonful of veal consommt, and two spoonfuls of cream or milk : work it well together, .add a little cayenne ; and a couple of minutes before you remove it from the fire, put in the pickled button mushrooms. Lemon, if approved, may be added at table. Instead of the mushrooms, some persons substitute capers put whole into the sauce. 5021. Boiled turkey. — The same directions as for boiling fowls apply to this bird, and it will only be necessary to show how to prepare the forcemeat with which it is to be stuffed. Beat in a mortar a slice of ham that has been boiled, fat and lean together, or slices of boiled tongue pared with some of the fat and kernels; pound them into a smooth paste ; scald some crumbs of bread with hot milk, and afterwards drain the milk entirely from it; add chopped jKirsley, a little eschalot, and some grated lemon-peel, pepper, and salt. Incorporate all these well together, with the yolk of one egg and the whites of nearly two. Introduce this stufRug under the skin of the breast, and confine it from passing out. Prepared in this manner, it will not crumble when brought to table, but cut