BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES. Book VIII, • 6»6 CHAP. X. ON TEA. Sect. I. HISTORY OF THE INTRODUCTION OF TEA INTO BRITAIN. 3996. TTie beverage so named, and now become ahnost a necessary of life in a great part of the British isles, was wholly unknown to the Greeks and Romans, as likewise to our ancestors previously to the middle of the seventeenth century. 3997. Tlic date of its beginning to be used in tJiis country is well ascertained by the fact that a duty of eightpence per gallon was in 1660 laid on the infusion of tea made and sold in colFee-houses in London ; and that its use had not at that time become very general is shown by an entry in the published diary of Mr. Pepys, secretary to the Admiralty : " September 25th, 1661—I sent for a cup of tea China drink) of which I had never drunk before." 3998. It does not appear clear by whom tea was first nnported into Europe. We learn from Mickle, in his " Introduction to the Luziad," that the Portuguese, who had intercourse with China in 1517, were allowed to purchase silks, porcelain, and tea; but we have no evidence how far they availed themselves of this privilege with respect to the latter. That they were acquainted with the use of an article in such general consumption among the Chinese is rendered very probable from the circumstance that they are the only European nation who designate the plant by its national name of tscha, all others applying to it the provincial name of te, derived from the dialect of Tokien, the province with which the English and Dutch maintained their earliest intercourse. The Dutch arrived for the first time in China in 1601 : but there is no authentic evidence that either they or the English, who appeared about the same time in the eastern seas, imported tea during the first half century of their intercourse with the East. No doubt, however, from the facts we have noticed, it was brought to Europe about that time and that the taste for it was beginning to spread in 1660. 3999. It was, however, so rare a commodity in England in 1664, that the English East India Company at that time bought two pounds two ounces of it, as a present for his Majesty; and it was not imported direct from China, but from Holland. In 1666, Lord Arlington and Lord Ossery brought over from the latter coimtry a quantity, at which time it was sold in England for sixty shillings a pound. The Dutch procured it from Bantam, then one of the principal emporia of India, and much frequented by the junks or ships of Canton. But it was scarcely then considered as an article of commerce; for in 1667 we find that the East India Company gave the first order to their agent at Ban- tam to send home 100 lbs. of tea for the purpose of making " presents to their friends at court." From that time the consumption increased; and in 1678, nearly 5000lbs. .were im- ported— a quantity, however, which is now easily sold annually by a single shop in London. As a proof of the rapidly-increased demand for what had become a favourite article of luxury, about the end of the century nearly 20,000 lbs. of tea were brought every year to England ; and in twenty years more, the annual importation exceeded 1,000,000 lbs. The present enormous consumption in England of upwards of 49,000,000 lbs. annually is perhaps greater than the quantity consumed in all the countries of the world besides, except China. The amount of the duty on tea in the year is about 4,603,000/. Sect. II. TEA PLANT, AND ITS CULTIVATION. 4000. With respect to the tea plant ( Thea, Linn.) we have until lately been deficient in accurate information, as it was only cultivated in China and Japan, coimtries to which strangers are not permitted free access. Linna;us was induced to think that there were two species, one of which pro- duced the black, and the other the gi-een teas ; but later observations do not confirm this, and from various information received concerning the tea plant, some botanists are of opinion that the various ([ualities of teas de))end upon varieties produced by soil, climate, and the age at which the leaves are plucked, as well as upon the management of theni afterwards; in short, that a single species has, like most other useful plants long culti- vated, spread into several pennanent varieties, two of which, the black and the green, distinguished by broad and narrow leaves, are chiefly known to us : these grow in different districts. When the leaves of black and green tea are expanded by hot water