519 WATER. CChap. I. LI 4 From the great purity of rain water, its solvent powers are greater than those of any liOther natural water ; hence it soon becomes impregnated with whatever matter it meets miib that is at all soluble in it. In hot climates it is apt to become full of animalcnlap, and aat last to acquire a strong putrid smell from the decay of the animal and vegetable sub- ■stances contained in it. If properly collected in this climate, however, it keeps a long time. 2903. To obtain rain water in a state of'complete purity for the purpose of e.vaiiiiniiiy it, iut should be collected in wide vessels perfectly clean, placed in some open space as far as ppossible from the smoke of towns, where they can receive the rain immediately from the :3louds, without its being suffered to fall upon or touch any other substance. Whatever ;ss collected from ordinary roofs is more or less contaminated with whatever liappens to be Idoose, and there is generally some soot from the smoke of chimneys, and fragments of Idoose mortar, together with a variety of matters that have been blown there by the wind. IThese materials, however, are not of such a nature as to make the water hard ; and pro- lyided the roofs are kept clean, it will be perfectly soft, and, if suffered to settle, and altered, wUl be nearly as pure as that which is collected immediately from the atmo- ■sphere. In coimtries or districts where water cannot be had from springs or any other ^source, large roofs are constructed purposely for collecting it. But the substance of "which roofs consist is important to consider in collecting water from them ; those which rconsist of lead, copper, or zinc, are altogether improper, as the water would certainly be jimpregnated with the oxides of these metals, and rain water in particular is found to ?3xert a solvent power on metallic lead. In tiled roofs, where there is a great deal of imortar, the water from them frequently has some impregnation of lime, not, however, ^sufficient to deteriorate it to any considerable degree, except while the roof is new ; wood ■is also improper. Slate is quite insoluble in water; and in that case, there being generally ao mortar, the water will receive no impregnation except what may arise from smoke and idust, or what may be produced by the lead gutters and pipes, if there are any. Dripping 3aves, and earthenware pipes placed below them, are most to be recommended where it is 'wished to collect water from roofs ; and cisterns or tanks formed of slate, stone, or brick, covered with cement or stucco, are better to keep it than wood; lead is particularly improper. It would be very easy to construct cisterns with filters so contrived that rain iwater might at all times be drawn from them in a state of great purity ; and in this manner almost every house, at least in the country, might be supplied with the very best \and purest soft water. It has been calculated that the average quantity of water which falls in a square yard of surface in Britain in the course of a year is 126 gallons. If, therefore, there be 100 square yards of roofing, it will give 12,600 gallons, which would X)e an ample supply for all the purposes of a small family. 2904. Bain water, carefully collected and filtered, is extremely agreeable to the palate, and perfectly wholesome. From its great softness, it is also particularly fitted for the purposes •of the laimdress. For the mode of preserving it, see Section 10. " Filtration," and Sec- tion 12. " Cisterns and Tanks." Sect. IV. SPRING WATER. 2905. TTie original source of all spring water is rain, which, falling upon hign ground, iiilters through the soil and the strata of the earth so long as they are porous, until it is ■(Stopped by some impervious substance, as rock or tough clay; it will then find its way ililong the surface of this bed, until it arrive at some crevice or opening, through which !.t forces its way out on the surface. From this description of springs, it is obvious :lJiat the water which they afford would be equally pure with rain water, provided it does nnot meet with any substances in its passage through the earth which it can dissolve. 2906. Tliis will be rendered more clear if we consider the accmnpanyiyig diagram. Suppose A -.0 be high ground, perhaps rocky, or at least impervious to water, and let a 6 c {fig. 523.) r represent the surface of this impervious stratum, having a stratum of sand, or some pervious a substance, d, lying upon it; and y'^^^^M^ over this let another impervious f ^.^^^^^^^ bed, ^, cover the last. The rain - ■ - _ ■S^^^^^^ A which falls on the surface of the y^!^^^ high ground at a will run down -"^ the slope of the hill until it ^V'' ' comes to the sandy stratum at e, and it will sink down into the P'R-^'i^- sand, and make its way to the Icowest part of the sandy stratum. If there should happen to be fissures atyand g in the upper irmpervious stratum k, the water which entered at e, and went down to d, will be forced up I hrough these fissures, because e is at a higher level; and it will issue out on the surface ' of the ground at/and g in the shape of springs. This is the origin of springs in general; they