ADULTERATION OF WINE, 647 IIAF. IV. the subject. Wine of the best kind not being the growth of this country, few persons, romparatively, are acquainted with the true flavour and properties of genuine wine ; hence frauds are more easily practised. The formation of spurious wines has become a regular and extensive trade in London; and so great is the sliill with which it is carried on, that : forei"-n wines of almost every description are imitated so as to deceive all but good judges. 3641. Lest it may be supposed that this is an erroneous or exaggerated statement, it may be proper to mention that so notorious and general is the practice of adulterations, that books are published containing receipts and directions for this purpose, entitled " Publicans' Guides" and " Licensed Victuallers' Directors," &c., from which much of our linformation is borrowed, and the sale of which sufficiently proves the use that is made of ithem; likewise several prosecutions and trials have supplied evidence of these mal-prac- ttices. It is to be observed, however, that we do not vouch for the accuracy of these rreceipts for adulterating, or assert that they are actually the modes employed. Their ppublication sufficiently demonstrates that they have been more or less followed ; but all (the variations of them made by different adulterators will probably never be discovered. In making these remarks we are far from intending to say that good wine is not to be lihad in this country, nor that there are not many wine-merchants of hi^Ti respectability vwho would scorn such practices as those which it is our object to expose ; and it is one, aand not the least of the evils of adulteration, that the fraudvdent impostor does much to ddeprive the fair dealer of the trade and profit which are justly his due. 3642. Some of the principal adulterations of wine have been in consequence of attempts tto correct the commencement of acidity. Acidity in wines is induced by a multitude of ocircumstances which have been already explained ; and such wine is, consequently, ren- Jdered unsaleable. Merchants are accustomed to neutralise the acetic acid formed in their vwines by the addition of various alkaline substances, such as the carbonates of lime, ppotash, and soda: but those which have undergone this species of amendment are almost aalways harsh and disagreeable to the taste, notwithstanding that they are freshened by a ijquantity of brandy. 3643. Quicklime, from its alkaline quality, was formerly employed in this country to (■correct the acidity in wine : it formed with the acid an insoluble salt which was preci- ppitated to the bottom of the cask. This fact explains Falstaff's accusation of his landlord, I'that there was " lime in his sack," intimating that his wine had begun to sour. The ddetection of lime, potash, or soda, used to destroy acidity, requires more chemical know- IJedge than is possessed by persons in general; and too imperfect acquaintance with aanalysis would be apt to lead into error. It will be more prudent to apply to a good ppractical chemist than to venture to pronounce in such case. We purposely, therefore, romit this part of the subject, as those who are already chemically informed wiU be at no Uoss. 3644. The most dangerous adulterations of wine are those where any preparation of lead hhas been employed. Acetate of lead, vulgarly called sugar of lead, has been used for larresting the process of acetification. It can, however, only be used with white wines, .las it precipitates the colouring matter of port and red wines. The ancients knew that it iimparted a sweet taste to substances, and that it rendered harsh wine milder, but it was nnot imiversaUy known that it was poisonous. It appears that no other material answers tithe purpose so well of recovering wines beginning to be ropy ; and there is no doubt but tlhat it was formerly employed by wine-merchants for such purposes. Bishop* Watson rcelates that its use was at one time common among the wine-merchants of Paris. In EEnglish receipt books we likewise find directions for using it: thus, in the " Vintner's GGuide, 1770," "a lump of sugar of lead of the size of a walnut, and a table spoonful of jsal enixum," are directed to be added to a "tierce (forty-two gallons) of muddy wine, to I cure it of its muddiness." In " Graham's Treatise on Wine-making," " to hinder wine from fairning sour," it is recommended to " put a pound of melted lead into the cask, and stop it.t close." And, " to soften grey wine," put a little vinegar wherein litharge has been well ftiteeped, and boil some honey to draw out the wax. Strain it through a cloth and put a 'i juart of it into a tierce of wine, and this wUl mend it." It is probable that the deleterious nature of lead was not so generally understood for- imerly as at present, and that in consequence of these directions wine-merchants and intners may have contaminated their wines with lead, without suspecting its poisonous iture ; but now that, from the diffusion of chemical knowledge, the public is aware of J lie danger of this practice, and that the means of detection, having been frequently Ijioublished, are easily resorted to, it is to be hoped that there are very few wine-merchants ' ir dealers who are so iniquitous as to scatter the seeds of disease and death amongst those ho contribute to their emolument, and to add the crime of murder to that of fraud, ijWe believe, indeed, that lead is now rarely employed in this way, although there have Ijtoeen persons imprudent enough to speak lightly of the matter, and to hint that it is not ' ;o dangerous as has been supposed. It has been argued that the tartaric and malic acids orm salts with lead that are nearly insoluble in the wine, and which, therefore, may be ,1 T t 4