902 Book XIII, RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. in it for a few minutes ; then take tliem out and drain them ; strain off the liquor clear. Put into a stew-pan a small bit of butter with a spoonful of flour, and fry them together ; dilute this with the oyster liquor and two table-spoonfuls of cream; let it boil gently, then add the oysters. When boiled sufficiently, season it with salt and with a spoonful of essence of anchovy. Serve in a tureen. 5164. Lobsler sauce.—Mash or pound the fresh eggs of the hen lobster, which squeeze thi'ough a piece of muslin and reserve ; divide the flesh of a boiled lobster into con- venient bits, and dust them with a little flour to prevent them from adhering together; put them into a saucepan with sufficient butter and cream, or milk, constantly stirring over a gentle fire until dissolved ; let it simmer a minute or two, then add the strained eggs or spawn ; and when it assumes a brilliant red colour, instantly remove it from the fire, as the continuance of a boiling heat would destroy its fine redness. Those who prefer the flavoui- of anchovy, cavice, or lemon-juice, may make the addition at table. 51(;5. S/trimp sauce. — When the shrimps are picked at home, reserve the bodies and shells, and stew them in a little water; strain this liquor through muslin, and employ it with sufficient butter, flour, and the picked shrimps. Some persons pound the picked shrimps into a paste, which may be afterwards mixed with the butter, flour, and the water in which the bodies have been stewed. In this way the sauce becomes strongly impregnated with the flavour of the shrimps. 51()(i. Anchovy sauce Take a couple of anchovies, pick them clean from the bones, and pound them to a paste with some flour. When sufficiently smooth, add two ounces and a half of butter, and incorporate it with the anchovy paste; put this mass into a saucepan with nearly a pint of milk or cream, and set it over a gentle fire to dissolve, frequently stirring it; when it has simmered a minute or two, it will be of the requisite consistence. Made with the essence of anchovy, two tiible-spoonfuls will be necessary to flavour hair a pint of good melted butter. It should be served hot, and have the juice of half a lemon squeezed into it. 5167. Fennel and butter for mackarel, — After the fennel is washed boil it in half a pint of salt and water for six or seven minutes ; drain it and mince it very small. Mix it well with melted butter, and serve it in a sauce tureen. Fennel and parsley sauce is sometimes preferred to fennel sauce alone. A sprig of mint and an onion chopped very small are also sometimes added. 51GS. Macknrel roe sauce Boil the soft roes ofm.ickarpl, and bruise them with a spoon ; then mix them with the yolk of an egg well beaten. Add tn them salt and pepper, and some fennel .and parsley boiled and chopped small. .To these must be added half a pint of thin melted butter. Some add mushroom catsup, or walnut pickle and soy. 5169. Eyg sauce for salt fish. — Boil three eggs for twelve minutes, and harden them by putting them immediately into cold water; this will also prevent the surface from becoming black. Chop all the yolks, but only half the whites, into small square dice, and after putting them into the sauce tureen pour upon them half a pint of melted butter, not too thick. Stir these well together. 5170. Liver sauce for fish. — Boil the liver of the fish and pound it in a mortar with a little flour; stir it into broth or some of the liquor the fish was boiled in, or in melted butter, parsley, and a few grains of anchovy essence, soy, or catsup. Give it a boil, and run it through a sieve. You may add lemon juice or lemon cut in dice. ."ilTl. A ven/Jine sauce/or Jish Put into a well-tinned saucepan a pint of port wine, a glass of mount.iin, half a pint of iine walnut catsup, twelve anchovies and the liquor belonging to them, three or four table-spoon- fuls of walnut pickle, and the rind of lialf a lemon. A few eschalots and cayenne to taste may be added. Also three ounces of scraped horse-radish, two or three blades of mace, two tea-spoonfuls of made mustard. Boil all gently together till the rawness of the taste is lost. Put it into a jug to cool, and thence pour it into pint bottles and cork them close. 5172. CuUis for Jisli Broil a jack or pike, then take off the skin and separate the flesh from the bones. Boil six eggs for twelve minutes and take out the yolks, blanch and beat to paste a few almonds. Add the eggs and mix these all together with butter; put in the fish and pound the whole m.ass together. Set a stew- pan on the fire with a piece of butter to brown, and when boiling put half a dozen onions sliced, two parsnips, ;md three carrots, to brown also ; pour to them afterwards a little brotli to moisten them. When these have boiled for a few minutes, strain them into another saucepan, put in a whole leek, some parsley, sweet basil, halfa dozen cloves, some mushrooms, truffles, and bread-crumbs, and let them stew together for a quarter of an hour when the fish, eggs, and almonds from the mortar must be added, and the whole stewed together some time longer, but not boiled. When suQiciently done, strain it through a hair sieve. Sect. VII. FORCEMEATS AND FLAVOURING INGREDIENTS. SuBSECT. 1. — Forcemeats. 5173. To compound forcemeats, and to use discriminately flavouring ingredients or con- diments, is the next branch in cooking to which attention must be given. Forcemeats should have the various ingredients of which they are composed equally incorporated, so that the whole mass may be uniform in quality and flavour. Flavouring herbs or con- diments employed in forcemeats should be carefully added, all predominance in any one over the rest being avoided. As in these flavours it is impossible to state precisely how much of each should be used, the cook must accustom herself to taste and to judge for herself of the due proportion of each : experience will give her delicacy and accuracy of taste. Accuracy in regard to flavour is an important attainment in a cook ; perhaps none can be eminent who do not strive to acquire it.