535 Chap. 1. WATER. our Imlian officers and soldiers In time of war, to enable tlicni to purify tlielr water ; tliey are more conve- nient than alum, and are, pcrli.ips, more wholesome. It may be mentioned as a curious fact, that tlic fruit above mentioned, having tlie property of clearing muddy water, is the only safe species of a large tribe of plants which are virulent poisons. Sect. XU. chemical tests fou examining vater. 2998. We stated under the head " Building," (Book I.) how essential it is to have a supply of good water ; and that if no well existed on the spot where a house is to be erected, it was desirable to sink one for the purpose. The salubrity of water being a matter of the first importance to health, it is proper that what is obtained from this or any other mode of supply, where its purity may be questionable, should be carefully examined before it be used for the usual purposes of domestic economy. 2999. When good water is first taken zip it is perfectly clear and colourless; but the examiner should not be satisfied with holding up a glassfull between his eye and the light; he should also pour some into a deep ale glass, into which he should look down- wards, when the slightest tinge from extraneous substances will appear. 3000. K the water be discoloured in any manner, it is usually owing to some impurity mechanically suspended in it, and which may be removed by rest and filtration, in the manner already described : but the impurities may likewise be dissolved in the water, in which case they will pass through the filter, which has no power of separating them. 3001. The existence of various substances dissolved in water may be discovered by the use of what are called chemical tests, or re-agents. These are substances made and kept for this purpose; by the addition of a small portion of one of these tests, the presence of a particular substance in the water may be detected. But although it is extremely easy to detect, in this manner, the substances most usually found dissolved in water, yet the complete examination of this fluid, so as to ascertain all the matters that are contained in it, is a subject that requires a very considerable acquaintance with practical chemistry; the analysis of waters being one of the most difficult and delicate of chemical researches. It would be quite out of place here to attempt an explanation of this subject at any length ; and we only propose pointing out the methods of ascertaining the presence of those sub- stances with which spring or well water are most generally contaminated, and which cannot be removed by filtration. 3002. If the water obtained should he' so impregnated with salts of any kind as to be readily discovered by the taste, it would come under the description of a mineral water, and be altogether unfit for domestic purposes ; but if it be transparent, colourless, and free from any peculiar taste, it is probably good : nevertheless it may be hard, for the hardness would not affect its transparency, nor would this be readily discovered by the palate, except that organ had been much practised in tasting waters. Using the water in wash- ing will determine this point to a certain extent: if it makes a good lather readily with soap it is soft, if not, it is hard. 3003. 77ie nature of hard and soft waters has been detailed at such length when treating of " Spring Water," that it would be an useless repetition to describe it again. We shall here, therefore, content ourselves with giving more particular directions for employing the tests. 3004. The mere fact of hardness may be ascertained by a solution of soap in spirits of wine, which is the method usually employed by well-diggers. If this be dropped into distilled water, no alteration will occur; but if the water be hard from an earthy salt, the solution of soap will occasion a white flocculent adhesive precipitate, which is owing to the lime in the water uniting to the fat of the soap, the alkali of the latter having joined the sulphuric acid of the lime. This test, however, only proves there is some neutral salt in the water, but does not point out what that salt is. Most salts, however, except those which are calcareous, are discoverable by the taste, particularly if part of the water be evaporated. 3005. To determine whether the water contains lime in anj' form, the oxalic acid should he employed, as the best test for this earth. All waters containing lime are more or less injurious to health, affecting the kidneys if they are drank for any continuance. Some of the springs about London contain a great deal of sulphate of lime, and are unfit for ■washing, and would be unhealthy to drink. To explain the principle upon which oxalic acid proves the presence of Ume, it must be observed that lime has a stronger attraction for the oxalic than it has for any other acid; therefore it will quit whatever acid it may be combined with in a dissolved state, and unite to the oxalic, forming an oxalate of lime, which, being insoluble in water, will fall down as a white precipitate. But instead of using pure oxalic acid, it is better to employ it as joined to ammonia, or the oxalate <f ammonia. 3006. To delect the presence of iron in water, add to it tinclure of galls; if there be iron, a black precipitate like ink will bo perceived : but for this purpose the water must M m 4