202 ON HOUSEHOLD FURNITURE. Book V. 922. It is stated as an interesliny chemical fact, that copper cannot he dissolved hj acids tvhde tin is present. If a copper saucepan be so worn, tliat part of the tinning is off, the acids take up some of the tin and deposit it on the abraded part, thus repairing, in some degree, the damage : in the same manner as brass pins are tinned by boiling with tin filings and cream of tartar. It is said, also, that no verdigris is formed in copper vessels, while the substances they contain are in a state of actual boiling ; and that it is only when the acids are cold, or at least not boiling hot, that they corrode the copper; but it is best not to trust to any chemical facts of that kind, but to have all copper well tinned as the safest practice. ' 923. Allhonyh copper may be, and to a considerable extent is, cast in sand, like other metals, it is in the state of sheets rolled out that the largest consumption takes place. It is an easy and pleasant metal to hammer, being at once soft and tenacious. These sheets, when cut into the desired form, are united by hard solder, and thus formed into various utensils. The hard solder employed is composed of three parts of brass, and one part of zinc, being more fusible than common brass. A copper tea-kettle presents a familiar, but ingenious, specimen of the coppersmith's art, both with reference to soldering and hammering: taken, indeed, in all its parts, it exhibits the result of almost every operation of his workshop. Most of the parts are cut out of sheet copper, and soldered up ; the spout is formed by filling a tube with lead, and hammering it upon a maundril; and the lid is stamped. Copper tea-urns and saucepans are formed by soldering and hammering in a similar manner, the brown colour of the former being produced by the application of sulphate of copper, or Roman vitriol, previous to the planishing or burnishing 924. Attempts have been made to line copper culinary vessels with tinned iron, in order to guard against the poisonous qualities of the copper ; but the tin was then found to rust with uncommon rapidity, owing to a galvanic effect between the two metals; and it is observed, that in cases where iron is riveted to copper, the rivet holes are acted upon in a similar manner, which causes the iron to loosen. SuBSECT. 7. — Lead. 925. Lead is a metal fortunately too soft by itself to be used for culinary vessels, other- wise, it would prove very dangerous, since all its salts produced by acid substances are more or less poisonous, and some of them highly so. It is readily dissolved by the acetic acid or vinegar which exists in all acid fruits, and the result is acetate of lead, or sugar of lead : although this is scarcely a poison of itself, yet it may be converted, when in the stomach, into the carbonate of lead, which is a deadly poison. It is not safe, there- fore, to admit into the human constitution any of the salts of this metal in any form whatever, except, as in medical practice, it should be administered with certain correc- tives of its poisonous qualities. It is supposed that lead, in its metallic state, like aU other metals, is probably inert ; but it is so easily acted upon by even the weakest acids and alkalies, that its presence in the stomach can never be free from danger. Of all the salts of lead, the carbonate is the most virulent poison. When metallic lead is exposed to the air, it soon acquires upon its surface a thin white coating, which is a carbonate of the metal. When lead is exposed to the action of rain water and air, the same kind of white powdery crust is formed; and this appears just at the surface line of the water in leaden cisterns, when the water has been suffered to remain long. Rain water, collected from the roofs of houses where there are leaden gutters, and coming down through leaden pipes, and in similar cases, when water and lead have been long in contact, holds always more or less of this poisonous salt. Sulphuric acid does not act upon lead when cold, but when hot it dissolves that metal. 926. Although lead is not much used in vessels for preparing or holding food, yet there arc several cases in which its improper use may be pointed out. In some parts of the country, it is, or was, the custom to keep milk in leaden vessels, particularly in Lancashire, from a mistaken idea of its cleanliness and coolness ; but the consequence is, that the acid of the milk dissolves a portion of the lead, which is thus converted into a dangerous substance ; and though the quantity may be small, yet, long continued, it may produce disease. Vats of lead have been used in some cyder countries, and have produced incalculable mischief What is called the Devonshire colic is occasioned by this practice, and is identified by its effects on the system with the colic of the plumbers, painters, and white- , lead makers. Brewing coppers, in some places, have their bottoms only of copper, their sides being of lead ; these are dangerous, as the lead must be more or less dissolved by the wort. Tiie glaze of some kinds of earthenware is made with oxide of lead, and is improper for pickling vessels. 927. 77ie poisonous effects of lead are sensibly fell in while-h ad manufactories, where the air breathed by the workmen is in some degree imprcgnaled with it; and house-painters,