liAP. VI. 53 HINTS ON THE PRACTICE OF BUILDING. bare. Spanish brown also a native earth. Lake is alumina, the basis of alum, tinged tth a dye from cochineal or Brazil wood : it differs much in quality. Hose pink is si- IJar to the last, but inferior. Red ochre is produced by burning yellow ochre. Burnt rrra di Sienna, the raw Sienna burnt. Blues. rPrussia7i blue is a preparation of Prussia acid and iron. Blue verditure, a colour from copper :<;cipitated upon chalk. Indigo, a colour extracted from plants in India. Smalt, a glass luoured by cobalt, and ground to a fine powder. Yellows. Hyellow ochre, called often stone ochre, a native earth of various qualities. Dutch pink, aiilk coloured by French berries. King's yellow, arsenic combined with sulphur. Naples How, Raw Terra di Sienna, a native earth. Greens. Werdigrease, a carbonate of copper. Prussian green, a composition similar to the blue t.that name. Te7-re verie, a native earth. Orange colour. LOrange lake, the tinging part of anatto or alumina. Broivns. IBumt umber, a native earth. Asphaltum, a native bitumen. Bistre, a kind of soot )Dm peat smoke. Cologne earth, a native pigment dug up. Blacks. LLamp black, the soot of oil burned in lamps. Ivory black, ivory or bone burned to char- aal. Blue black, the charcoal of ivy twigs, or some other plants. Whites. IFlake white, a superior ceruse. While lead, carbonate of lead. IThe above are all the colours usually employed by house painters. We have omitted lose which are only very seldom resorted to, or used in other branches of painting. 2211. Much judgment is required in making up the various lints used in house painling, idd adjusting them harmoniously to each other : our painters have of late years acquired nnsiderable skill and taste in this part of their art; but it is impossible to give any useful rrbal directions on this subject: experience and practice with those who are skilled are ccessary, together with a good eye for colour. It may be sufiBcient here to mention the uial pigments employed in making up the tints that are most frequently employed. rrey is made with white lead, Prussian blue, ivory black, and lake, or Venetian red. Da inferior one with white, black, or Indigo, and Venetian red. Pea and sea greens, itth white, Prussian blue, and yellow. Olive green, with white, Prussian blue, umber, idd yellow ochre. Fawn colour, with burnt terra Sienna, umber and white. IFormerly it was the practice to finish much of the wood work in white only ; but this mow seldom done : some tint is preferred, as being less painful to the eye, and keeping 1 colour better. i212. White paint preserves its colour best in pure air.— It is often remarked how much iipger paint will keep white in the country than in town. This is partly owing to the looke of the latter ; but that is not the only cause, for the impurity of the atmosphere il 11 change the colour of paint. Sulphuretted hydrogen is a very deleterious gas, com- ftsed of sulphur and hydrogen. (See Ventilation). Sulpliur united to lead (or sulphuret 1 lead) is a substance of a blackish colour, with a metallic lustre : and when sulphuretted " drogen is present where there is white lead, the sulphur joins to the lead and forms a i|lphuret. This deleterious gas, having the smell of rotten eggs, is generated where there ' 6 animal matters in a decaying state, and is abundant in the sewers and places of that nnd where there are putrefying substances; consequently white paint, in the vicinity of cch places, is certain to turn very dark. This change of colour in paint may be more lodily perceived in the basement stories of houses, and wherever there is any disengage- rent of foul air: it may, indeed, in some degree, be considered as a test of the purity of • e air. ;213. Graining among house-painters is understood to mean the imitation of the several iSerent species of scarce woods used in articles of furniture ; such as mahogany, satinwood, wewood, kingwood, oak, &c. This kind of painting is now very generally practised, dd frequently with great dexterity, some of these woods being so well imitated as scarcely Ibe distinguished from the originals. Some graining, as the imitations of rare and beau- Pl woods done in the best manner, is expensive; but graining like oak or wainscot is ap, costing little more than flatting, and lasting very much longer. It is admirably pted for doors, architraves, windows, sash bars, and other parts liable to become dirty ;