RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. 898 quarts of veal stock, add some green onions, a few small mushrooms, and a piece of lemon-peel; when it begins to boil carefully remove the scum. As soon as the chickens arc about three parts done, take them out, remove the skin, and pick out all the white meat; score or chop the other parts, return them to the veal stock, and let them gently simmer for an hour longer, closely covered. Put the while meat into a mortar with sufticient almond [laste, and crumb of brea<l soaked in milk and afterwards squeezed in a napkin. Be.-it all these intimately together, moistening from time to lime with a little strained broth iiiitil it acquire tlie consistence of tliick cream ; now strain oil' the veal stock and mix them together. Let them gently boil a quarter of an hour, add the ai)propriate seasoning, .and serve up with pieces of French roll, not toasted. This is a very elegant, wholesome, and nutritious soup. N.IS. Vnr the purposes described, a large marble mortar with a wooden pestle is an indispensable utensil in the kitchen. 5118. Sorrel soup. — Take two pecks of young sorrel leaves, pick them from the stalks, wash, and draia them. Set them in a stew-pan over a slow fire, with a quarter of a pound of butter ; when softened drain them over a sieve for two minutes, and put them agaiu into the stew-pan, with a small bit of butter, and half a pint of second stock (or consomme. (See Receipt, " Second Stock.") When reduced to half the quantity, add half a piut more, and a few table-spooufuls of plain meat stock ; boil all together and pass through a tamis. Add next a whole quart of stock, and boil it again gently for two hours before dinner. Just before it is to be served beat together six eggs, and mix them first with half a pint of cream, and then gradually with the boiling soup. 5U9. Green pea-soup. — Take two quarts of large green peas, not too young, three middle-sized turnips, two cabbage lettuces, and a dozen green onions. Boil these with a little pepper in a quart of first veal or beef stock (the former is preferable) until quite tender ; mash or pound them to a pulp, and rub them through a tamis. Add two quarts of veal stock, and if you wish a richer and more nutritious soup, a pint of veal consomme. Then take a quart of young green peas, which heat gently over a slow fire until they are tender ; add these to the soup, with some flour and butter to give the proper consistence, and boil them for half an hour. A few leaves of green mint may be introduced if ap- proved ; and if it be required to have the soup very green, boil a bunch of parsley and rub it through a hair sieve, which will give the desired colour: if any slight acidity should prevail from the vegetables, a lump of sugar will remove it. Season to the palate, and serve it as usual with fried bread. 5120. Asparagus soup. — This is made with the points of asparagus in the same man- ner as the green pea-soup is with peas ; or by adding the asparagus heads to common pea- soup. StTBSECT. 4. — Game Soups. 5121. Game soups, in houses well supplied with game, may he made at a very moderate expense. Take the meat from the breasts of birds, hares, or rabbits, that may have been left from the preceding day's dinner, and pound it. Beat the bones to pieces and boil them in broth for an hour. Boil and mash six turnips, strain them with the pounded meat through a tamis, passing the broth at the same time, by which means the whole will be got through. Put these ingredients into the soup-kettle and set it near a moderate fire, never allowing it to boil. When it is to be served, beat the yolks of six eggs, and mix with them half a pint of cream; strain them through a sieve into the soup, which should be nearly boiling; stir the eggs and cream well into it to prevent them becoming curdled. 5122. Hare soup.—Empty a hare ; reserve the liver and parboil it. Cut the hare into junks or thick pieces ; trim the bottom of a stew-pan with slices of fat ham or fat bacon. Have ready cut some carrots, turnips, and onions, one of which should be whole and stuck with six cloves, a blade of mace, and a few corns of pepper, a bunch of parsley, and some sweet herbs, two table-spoonfuls of chopped mushrooms, two eschalots minced, and a piece of lemon peel, with a little salt. Fill the trimmed stew-pan with the pieces of hare and vegetables, and moisten with a pint of beef stock and a gill of port wine. Let these gently simmer together, closely covered, on a very slow fire for two hours. Then remore the stew-pan from the fire, and take out the best pieces of the hare, as the thighs and back ; pick the meat clean from the bones, which latter return into the stew-pan. Poimd the meat you have picked off with the parboiled liver in a mortar, and when it becomes a smooth and uniform mass, add a large hmip of flour and butter intimately mixed, and rub them through a tamis. Replace the stew-pan on the fire, with sufficient beef stock to afford three quarts of soup, and let them gently simmer an hour more; then strain it off and remove any fat. Mix gradually the pounded meat of the hare with the strained liquor, and set it on the fire for twenty minutes to thicken and combine. .M23. Partriilec soup Skin and cut to pieces two large partridges, with three or four slices of h.-im, a little celery, and three large onions. Fry them in butter till brown, hut mind they do not bum ; then put them into a stew-pan with three quarts of boiling water, a few peppercorns, and a little salt. Attcr stcwmj gently for two hours, strain it through a sieve, put U ng.iin into the stew-p.m with some stewed celery and fried bread. When near boiling pour it into a tureen, and serve it quite hot.