1165 Chap. V. MAKING CHEESE. 1 curd—the management of the cheese in the press—and its treatment afterwards in the I cheese-room. The goodness of cheese depends more or less upon all these, but most of ; all, perhaps, on the mode of making : for although it is generally considered necessary, in . order to make the best cheese, to use new milk that has not been skimmed, yet some of the best cheese in Europe, as that of Parmesan, is said to be made from skimmed milk. The processes in different parts of England likewise differ somewhat, and hence the various kinds of our cheese; but the general principles and mode of manufacture are nearly as follows, being the mode usually adopted in Cheshire, as described by Holland. 6908. The utensils requisite for making cheese are, besides the usual ones for holding the milk the cheese-tub, in which the milk is coagulated and the curd broken—the cheese- knife, generally a thin spatula of wood, but sometimes of iron, used for the purpose of cutting or breaking down the curd while in the cheese-tub — the cheese-tongs, or ladder, being a wooden frame occasionally placed on the cheese-tub, when the vat is set on it in order to drain the whey from the curd—the vat, a strong kind of wooden hoop, turned out of solid elm, with a loose bottom, which, as well as the sides, is perforated with holes to allow the whey to escape while the cheese is pressing ; its size must depend upon that of the cheese to be made — the cheese-cloth, a piece of thin open linen, in which the cheese is placed in the press—the cheese p7-ess, a power obtained by a weight, screw, or lever, used for forcing the whey out of the curd while it is in the vat—cheese-boards, circular pieces of wood on which the cheeses are put in the cheese-room. 6909. The proper season of the year for making cheese is from the beginning of May till the close of September ; or, in favourable seasons, to the beginning of October. Very good cheese, however, may be made in winter, provided the cows are well fed. Previously to commencing the process of making cheese, besides the milk, two mate- rials must be ready for use—the rennet for coagulating the milk, and the substance for colouring the cheese, if any is to be employed. 6910. The substance called rennet, generally used for coagulating or turning milk to curds and whey, is made from the stomach of a calf preserved by means of salt. To understand its operation, we may observe that it is the nature of the gastric juice secreted in the stomach of all animals to coagulate the milk taken into it, as is well known to those accustomed to children. The prepared stomach of ruminating animals is found best for this purpose, and that of a young calf that has been killed before the digestion is per- fected is generally preferred for rennet. This preparation is made in diflFerent ways in different districts; but the following method, used in Gloucestershire, according to Mr. Marshall, is one of the best:—"Take a calf's bag, maw, or stomach, and, having taken out the curd contained therein, wash it clean, and salt it thoroughly inside and out, leaving a white coat of salt over every part of it. Put it into an earthen jar, or other vessel, and let it stand three or four days, in which time it will have formed the salt and its own natural juice into a pickle. Take it now out of the jar, hang it up for two or three days, and let the pickle drain from it. Re-salt it, plunge it again in ajar; cover it tight down with a paper pierced full of holes by a large pin, and in this state it ought to remain twelve months. It may be used, however, a few days after it has received a second salting; but it will not be so strong as if kept a longer time." 6911. When wanted for use, the rennet so prepared is soaked in water, to which some add a little lemon and cloves, or an infusion of sweet-briar and dog-rose, to do away any disagreeable smell, and give an agreeable flavour. The strength of the liquid will of course be increased in proportion to the length of time the bag remains in it, and there- fore the quantity to be used for turning the milk cannot be stated in any exact portion, but must be ascertained by practice : on an average, we might say that half a pint of the liquid will be sufficient to turn fifty gallons of milk. As the account by Mr. Alton of the mode of preparing the rennet in Ayrshire is considerably different, though successful, we shall describe it also. He observes, that " so far from washing away the curdy matter or chyle found in the stomacli of the calf, it is carefully preserved ; for this chyle is formed by a mixture of the gastric juice of the calf with its food, and, the gastric juice being the coagulating power, the rennet will be stronger for retaining it: indeed, pains are taken, before the calf js killed, to have as much as possible by giving it milk. Accordingly in preparing the bag or maw, as soon as it is tiken from the carcase of the calf. Its contents are examined, and any straws or indigested food that may happen to be there arc thrown away, but no part of the ch^le is suffered to be lost. Two handfuls of salt, at least, are put into the bag and upon its outside ; after which it is rolled up in salt, and hung near a (ire till it is well dried : and it is understood that it is improved by h.inging a year. When rennet is w.mted for making cheese, the bag with its contents Is cut small, .and put into a jar with a handful or two of salt; and a qu<antity cither of soft water that has been boiled, and cooled to G^°, or of new whey taken off the curd, is put upon the bag in the jar. The quantity of water used must vary according to the kuid of calf; if that has been newly dropped and not fed, three Knglisli pints will be enough : but If it has been fed four or five weeks, a couple of quarts may be put upon the bag to tnash, the older calf furnishing most gastric juice. After the infusion has remained in the jar from two to three days the liquid is drawn off, and an English pint more of water or whey put upon the b.ag in the jar; and that, after standing in a mash one or two d.ays, is also drawn off, and, with the first infusion, strained ; the whole is then put ifp in bottles for use as rennet, and the bag is thrown .iway and not used for the milk. The liquid may be employed immediately, and will keep for many months. A table-spoonful of rennet «o prepared will be sufficient for thirty gallons of milk: but its great superiority over the English is, that it will coagulate the milk In five or ten minutes, whereas the latter requires from one to three hours to form the curd. No harsh taste is communicated to the cheese, if suUicient care bo taken in preparing rennet In this way."