itiHAP. ir. 741 MATERIALS OF WHICH BREAD IS COMPOSED. The grain is sown in rows in tlie bottom of trenclies made by slow labour. These ridpos lie about seventeen i.nches apart, from centre to centre. The rice is put in by hand about tlie 17th of March, generally by women, iiid is never scattered, but cast so as to fall in a line. By means of flood-gales, the water is then permitted 11 How over the fields, and to remain on the ground fifteen days, at the depth of several inches. The object )f tliis drenching is to ip!-o«( the seeds, as it is technically called. The water is next drawn off, and the ;;round allowed to dry, until the rice has risen three or lour inches. I'his requires about a month. The jelds are then again overflowed, and they remain submerged for upwards of a fortnight, to destroy the grass I ir.d weeds. These processes finish about the 17th of May, after which the ground is allowed to remain dry till she 1.5th of July, during which interval it is repeatedly hoed to remove such seeds as have not been effectually idrowned, and also to loosen the soil. The water is then for the last time introduced, in order that the rice v.nay be brought to maturity ; and it actually ripens while standing in the water. The harvest commences lUbout the end of August, and extends into October. It is all cut by the male slaves, who use a sickle, while hhe women make it up in bundles. 42lfi. From the pedicles the rice must be separated by the hand-flail, as no machinery has yet been devised or effecting this purpose. The next process is to detach the outer husk, which clings to the grain with great oertinacity. This is done by passing the rice between a pair of mill-stones removed to a considerable distance 'rom each other. The inner coat or film, which envelopes the grain, is removed by trituration in mortars jnder pestles weighing from 2.50 to 300 lbs. These pestles consist of upright bars, shod with irons, which being .•aised up by the machinery to the height of several feet, are allowed to fall down upon the rice, the particles •)f which are thus rubbed against one another till the film is removed. It is now thoroughly winnowed, and oeing packed in casks holding about 600 lbs. each, is ready for distribution over all parts of the world. Each 'i^lantation has a mill. Though rice is now so largely cultivated in Carolina, that it constitutes the chief pra- lluce, the swampy land being well suited to it, it is not used so much for food in America as maize and wheat, iund it is mostly raised for exportation, the Carolina rice being found superior to every other. The cultivation 'of it is the most unhealthy work in which the slaves of Carolina are employed. They are obliged frequently ■0 stand ankle deep in the mud, with their bare heads exposed to the fierce rays of the sun. The consequence ■.s, that numbers sijik under it and die. This causes a constant diminution of the slaves, which the proprietors ire obliged to supply by importations from the other states of North America. At the unhealthy season, a hen the harvest commences, alrthe white proprietors leave the spot, and go to higher ground, or to the north. •1217. Rice in the native rough state, with the husk on, is. called paddy both in India and VA.nierica ; and it -will keep better and for a much longer time in this state than after the ibusk has been removed ; besides which, prepared rice is apt to become dirty from rubbing :kbout in the carriage on board ship, and in the -warehouses. These facts recently sug- ;gested to some enterprising capitalists to bring it to England in the shape of paddy, and Ithen to detach the husk. The experiment has been completely successful, and such rice may now be had in London, of Messrs. Lucas and Ewbank, as fresh in taste and appear- ance as any in Carolina. Paddy pays less duty than shelled rice. 4218. nice consists almost entirely of starch or farina, with little or no gluten, and no ready-formed sugar ; hence its nutritive qualities are very much inferior to wheat, though it is light and wholesome. Dr. Paris observes, that rice is not much disposed to ascescency or ifermentation, and furnishes a wholesome aliment when mixed with other food; but if .taken in large quantities by itself, from its low degree of stimulant properties it is apt to rremain for a length of time in the stomach ; and this effect is greatly increased by pro- ;tracted boiling. When the stomach is in a state of relaxation or debility, it ought not to be taken without condiment; it is for this reason found necessary, in the warmer climates, to conjoin with it a considerable quantity of warm spices. Rice, however, with proper management in cooking it, forms a very valuable and cheap laddition to our farinaceous food; and in years of scarcity has been found eminently use- I ful in lessening the consumption of flour. When boiled, it shotdd be so managed that the .grains, though soft, should be as little broken and as dry as possible; the water in which l it is dressed should only simmer, and not boil hard. Very little water should be used, as lithe grains absorb a great deal, and consequently swell much ; and if they take up too amuch at first, it is difiicult to get rid of it. Baking it in puddings is the best mode of ; preparing it. 4219. There are many varieties of rice produced, probably, by the difference of climate land culture. The rice exported from Bengal is chiefly of the species denominated cargo 'rice; it is of a coarse reddish brown cast, but peculiarly sweet and large grained ; it does nnot readily separate from the husk, but it is preferred by the natives to all the others. Fatna rrice is more esteemed in Europe, and is of very superior quality ; it is small grained, rxather long and wiry, and is remarkably white. Hill rice is not imported. The Carolina rrice is considered as the best, and is likewise the dearest in London, as it pays a much hhigher duty than the East Indian rice. SuBSECT. 6. —Maize or Indian Corn (Zea Mays, Lin.). 4220. This, the noblest of the cereal grasses, was found native in America when that •country was discovered; and it now constitutes the bread corn of North America, Mexico, iand a great part of Africa. It is not indigenous in any part of Europe, but is generally cultivated in the southern and eastern part of the continent as bread corn, having acquired the name of Bl£ de Turquie or Turkey corn, from its being presumed to have been intro- ;duced from the Levant by the Mahometans after their conquest of Constantinople. It is ■ nearly as extensively used for the support of man as rice, but there are great differences •of opinion as to its merits. 4221. It is said to contain very little gluten and sugar ready formed, and hence it isas- • serted that its nutritive power must be small; and it certainly cannot be fermented into .3 3 3