ments more suited to the nature of the material. Still plated metal did not gain much respect in thi- world of luxury and i'ashion till the discovery of making silpcr edges, or of executing in solid sil- ver those parts which projected most, and were most liable to wear, an improvement which added ex- tremelj' to the durability of tlie imitation. These parts are made of silver rolled out extremely thin, and stamped ; and after the inner sides have the hollows filled with solder, are then bent and attached to the parts required. It is, indeed. Fig. 507. Fig. 5U8. Fig . 09. surprising how long plated articles defended with silver on the more exposed parts will last when carefully used. Figs. 507, tt08, 509. are examples of the usual style of plated candlesticks. 1403. Jfhen plated goods come out of the hands of the workman, the metal, though clean, • s of a dull white colour, possessing no polish whatever. The last operation is the bur- lishing, which is generally performed by women. The burnishing tools are of agate, or iiimilar hard stones, with smaller ones of hardened steel. Should any accident occur to lay bare the copper in any particular spot, or should the woiking up by the hammer of jmy latent blister in the metal produce a similar deformity, the workman has a remedy in the French plating. Having scraped or scoured the place quite clean, and perhaps matted ■or roughed it a little with a tool, he places upon it a piece of silver reduced to the thinness >Df foil, and well cleaned : holding the article over a charcoal fire, and directing the heat no the part to be mended, he suffers it to become just red hot, upon which he instantly ijipplies a burnisher to the patch, and rubs it for a few minutes, when it will be found to I'ldhere so completely that no subsequent operation of hammering or otherwise will remove i. t It is to the burnishing of plate that it is indebted for that rich lustrous appearance so peculiar to the precions metals. In some silver articles, there are parts represented in matted or dead work of a fine white gi'ound, and producing a pleasing effect when con- rrasted with the burnished portions. This effect, of matting, is produced by covering the .iubject with a coat of pulverised charcoal and saltpetre, and often heating it until red hot '^ver a charcoal fire, quenching it in a pickle of sal enixon. In some of the very rich and iinassy pieces of plate, the figures, instead of being stamped and embossed in sheet metal, are •2ast from designs modelled expressly by celebrated artists in wax, and copied in plaster of PParis. The London gold and silver smiths sometimes employ first-rate talent in this way. 1404. When plated goods are to be engraved, it is evident that as the depth of the engraved lines would cut through the plating and expose the copper, it is necessary to let in a thin ililate of silver at the part where the engraving is required : but this is done so ingeniously hhat the joining is not seen. 1405. From this description of plated articles maybe perceived the great necessity there -«s for avoiding any circumstances in cleaning them that should scratch or rub off the lililvering, which is extremely thin, not equal to the finest graved line. 1406. It is much to be regretted that silver, which is susceptible of so fine a polish, and of tnhich the lustre and the colour are so beautiful, is so liable to tarnish, an effect which happens [no solid silver and silver plate equally. This change is occasioned by the sulphur of the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, a small quantity of which is always present, more or less, in lihe atmosphere. This sulphur combines with an extremely thin coating of the external iiart of the silver, thus forming sulphuret of silver; a ?ubstance which is of a blackish-brown ii. ue. The tarnish can only be removed by taking off the whole of the sulphuret so formed, rmd therefore a considerable portion of the actual silver of the plated articles is destroyed 111 removing the tarnish. It is important to understand that the tarnish is not something idded to the metal, leaving it as before ; but the metal itself changed. The thinnest loating of any substance which may be easily removed, as gum arable or isinglass, will rrevent the tarnishing, by keeping off the air from the surface: and this may furnish a int for preserving silver in its original brightness when it is necessary to put it away for nny length of time. 1407. While on the subject of plate, it is necessary again to advert to what has been noticed •-1 the Section of " Materials of Furniture," under the name of German silver and British late, respecting which the most extraordinary degree of puffing and quackery is at ■resent practised, and which it is essential that we should guard our readers against. We mentioned that the composition of these alloys is zinc, copper, and tin ; and in one called ichel silver, it is said there is a little nickel, but no silver. Tli<" manufactureis have the