COOKING FOR THE INVALID. 943 • Chap. II. 5520. Cold pork Slices of cold pork, fried and laid on apple sauce, form an excellent side or corner dish. I Boiled pork may :Uso be made into rissoles, minced very fine like sausage meat, and seasoned sufficiently, but t not over much. SuBSECT. 2. — Cooking cold Poultry and Game. 5521. CoM/owl (made into fricasslt') Cut up a cold boiled or roasted fowl; put it into a stew-pan with a r pounded bitter almond, a little mace, grated lemon peel, and white pepper and salt; cover it with warm V water or with broth of boiled (owl, and put on the saucepan cover ; set the saucepan near the fire to simmer ; for half an hour. When near the time of serving, thicken some of the gravy with flour and butter, and with t cream or with the yolk of an egg ; make it hot, pour it over the meat, and serve with sippets and curled t bacon. If the gravy be suffered to boil after the cream or egg has been added, it will probably curdle the j gravy. Whenever it begins to boil, it should be taken off the fire. Cold fowl may be served with a salpi<;on or eraince put within it. (See " French Cooking Receipts.") 5522. Cold rabbit Dress cold rabbit the same as cold fowl, either as a fricassee, a currie, or a salpigon. 5523. Cold hare may be hashed with good beef gra\'y, and served with currant jelly sauce. SuBSECT, 3. — Warming up cold Fish. 5524. Salmon and mackarel. — When brought from table, any remains of salmon or mackarel should be ^soused in a pickle, made with some of the water in which the fish had been boiled, and with vinegar and tblack peppercorns. By this means the fish may be kept, if requisite, for several days, and is then relished hby those who eat suppers. 5525. Cod The remains of this fish may be employed as the basis of a currie; or it may be put into a ddish, and with bread-crumbs, butter, and eggs, it may be made brown, and serve as a corner or flank dish the s second day. S0BSECT. 4. — Warming up Vegetables left at Table. .5526. Cold potatoes fried, cut into thin slices, floured, salted, and fried in butter, make an excellent and rrelishing dish, to be eaten either alone or with any insipid meats. S527. Cold potatoes scollopped. — Bruise cold potatoes in a mortar or potato bowl. Beat well the yolk of lan egg, and mix it with warm milk, with some salt, and a small lump of butter ; rub the potatoes perfectly >smooth, and incorporate this mixture with them; put it into a scollop shell, score it over the surface, and put uon it some small bits of butter ; brown it in a Dutch oven or with a salamander. 6528. Mashed potatoes and spinach or cabbage—Moisten cold mashed potatoes with a little white sauce • Intake cold cabbage or spinach, and chop either one very finely. Moisten them with a brown gravy. Fill a tin nmould with layers of potatoes and cabbage; cover the top and put it into a stew-pan of boiling water. Let it rremain long enough to warm the vegetables ; then turn the vegetables out and serve them. This might be pprepared by boiling the vegetables separately, and merely |)utting them into the mould in layers, to be turned oout when wanted. It forms a very pretty dish for an entree. 5529. Carrots and turnips mat/ be added to soups, if they have not been mixed with other gravies, or swarmed up separately, and put mto moulds in layers ; they may be turned out, and served the same as the I potatoes and cabbage described above. SuBSECT. 5. — Cold sweet Dishes. 5530. Cold rice pudding. —Over cold rice pudding pour a custard, and add a few lumps of jelly or pre- sserved fruit. Remember to remove the baked coating of the pudding before the custard is poured over it 5531. Apple tart. — Cut into triangular pieces the remains of a cold apple tart; arrange the pieces around tihe sides ot a glass or china bowl, and leave space in the centre for a custard to be poured in. 5532. Cold plum pudding. — Cut into thin round slices cold plum pudding and fry them in butter Fry lalso Spanish fritters (see " Receipts") and place them high in the centre of the dish, and the fried pudding ail r round the heaped-up fritters. Powder all with lump sugar, and serve with wine sauce in a tureen Any kinds of jellies and blancmanges may be, if broken into, dissolved over the fire, and put into fresh iranoulds to be turned out for another day's dinner. CHAP. n. COOIONG FOR THE INVAXID. Sect. I. GENERAL OBSERVATIONS. 5533. Some apology may be considered requisite for introducing among the receipts of ccookery for the sick and convalescent many which medical opinion and practice in the rpresent day have brought into comparative disuse. The receipts for making animal itelhes are of this number. Formerly calf's foot jelly was administered as the prop of the Life of a debilitated convalescent; now it is almost as universally rejected, as conveying liittle nourishment, or, if given, as the medium only for wine or other cordials, not as a re- ■titorative in itself 5534. On the receipts for caudle some remarks must also be made. This was formerly -lonsidered as indispensable in the lying-in room. Now it is seldom or ever admitted :nto It. Of such cases the treatment of the present day forbids all heating diet for at least the first fortnight, and by that time, the necessity for liquid food no longer existin"- in I'.he same degree as at first, the patient in all general cases is beginning to return tocher isual mode of living. Perhaps in cases of extreme debility this species of nourishment