958 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. sheep, the fleece is more regular, -whatever be the degree of fineness, than on any of our sheep. 5G27. Tlie fineness of the fieece varies in different parts of the animal. The finest is upon the spine, from the neck to within six inches of the tail, including one-third of the breadth of the back or saddle; the second quality covers the flanks, and extends from the thighs to the shoulders; the third covers the neck and rump; and the fourth lies upon the lower part of the neck and the breast, down to the feet, as also upon a part of the shoulders, and the thighs, to the bottom of the hind quarters. Wool is sorted with great care into the various degrees of fineness, by persons much prac- tised in this process ; and they generally separate English fleeces into eight or ten sorU in a single fleece, which receive difierent names, and are applicable to difi'erent fabrics. 5628. The softness of fine wool for cloths is next in importance to the fineness of the fibre, but is not dependant upon it. It consists in a peculiar feel, which approaches to that of silk or down, but in which the wool of European sheep is inferior to that of Eastern Asia, or to the wool of the Vicima or Lama of Peru and Chili. The softness of the Indian wool is far superior to that of the very softest of the Merino fleeces ; and yarn from Indian wool fetches a much higher price, sometimes even three guineas per pound, not on account of the superior fineness of the thread, but for the soft- ness of the wool. In European wools there are different degrees of this property, even where the fibre is equally fine. In our English wools, a similar difference exists between the wool of one district and that of another, and which is imparted to the cloths made from each. 5629. Fine clothing wool depending chiefly upon the peculiar breed of sheep, and less upon soil and climate, may be grown, by care and attention, in every country where sheep will subsist and thrive ; but it is different with the long combing wool: to grow this in per- fection, rich pastures seem requisite, and these cannot be obtained under a parching sun, in tropical climates, nor could the animal exist clothed with a heavy fleece. Under such circumstances, the long-woolled sheep become feverish and diseased, and only recover by casting'the fleece, which is replaced by a coat of short hair. The luxuriant pastures in England, particularly in Lincolnshire and Leicestershire and in the opposite coast of Flanders, seem more favourable to the growth of long wool for combing than any other countries, and the wool of these places is highly prized for the worsted manufacture. 5630. Lamb's-wool is generally softer than that of the sheep of the same flock ; and as it has the felting quality in a high degree, is much used in the hat manufacture. The wool of dead lamb-skins called skin-lamb's-wool, possesses less of the felting property, and is employed for flannels and lamb's-wool hosiery. In the northern parts of Europe, the lambs of some of the breeds of sheep possess a fleece so delicately soft, that it consti- tutes a most valuable fur, being dressed on the skin, and used as a costly article of attire, especially for morning gowns, among wealthy Russians. 5631. The natural colour of wool is white, gray, or brownish black. It is probable that all sheep's wool was at first of a dark colour, and previously to the invention of dyeing, coloured wool would have a preference to white ; but after the discovery of a method of communicating beautiful colours to the fleece, white wool would be preferred as the most favourable for receiving bright colours, and those sheep which had white fleeces would be selected to breed from. Dark brown or black-woolled sheep are not uncommon in many parts of Europe, and coarse cloths are made of their wool in its natural colour. 5632. Wool, in the state in which it is taken from the sheep, is always mixed with a great deal of dirt and foulness of different kinds, and in particular, is strongly imbued with a natural grease, which requires to be removed. This is effected by the wool-comber, by means of washing and combing, after which the wool becomes soft, clean and springy, and is brought into the state adapted for the making of worsted and the manufacture of woollen stuffs. 5633. The grease or yolk of the fleece is an oily, or rather a soapy, substance secreted by the animal. It is found to consist of animal oil combined with a little potash, forming of itself a kind of soap; hence it serves to facilitate the scouring of wool by water alone. It is most abundant in those breeds that have the softest fleeces, as the Merino; and while the animal is living, it serves to keep the wool in a sound state, and improves its softness ; but although so beneficial to the wool while growing, it becomes injurious to it after it is shorn, and should be removed as soon as possible ; otherwise, it will produce a fermentation, and render the wool hard and brittle, particularly in hot weather. Some- times the fleece is washed with cold water on the animals before sheaving ; but when it is thick, as in the Merino breed, it is washed after it is shorn, cither with hot or cold water, the former being most eff'ectual. Wool loses in weight by this process from thirty to forty-five per cent. A copious supply of the yolk is necessary to the healthy condition of the fleece, and in some flocks it is nearly equal in weight to the wool. 5G34. The practice of greasing the sheep with a mixture of tar and butter, practised in