Chap. II. CONSTRUCTION OF FOUR-WHEELED CARRIAGES. 1107 4 B 2 drawn in full lines, and the under carriage in dotted lines. For the convenience of refer- ence, the same letters are attached to the corresponding parts in all the figures 842, 843, 844, 845. To begin -with the plan of the upper carriage : a 6 is the perch, which, as seen in the elevation, 845,, is of the curved kind. It is framed into a cross piece, c, called the fore transom, in the fore part, and into another cross piece, d, called the hind axle bed, which is : a strong piece of wood, in the under side of which the hind axle of iron is bedded, carry- : ing the hind wheels, g and h, fig. 842. To complete the description of the hind part of t the carriage, we may point out another cross piece, /, called the hind transom, or hind spring bar, connected with the hind axle bed, d, by short pieces, i and k,fig. 842., called 1 niinters. Two curved spreading pieces, I and m, called wings, cross these and are fixed to I the perch. In the fore part of the upper carriage, besides the fore transom, c, already 1 mentioned, there is another cross piece, e, called the horn bar, connected with the fore t transom by short pieces. To comprehend the under carriage, the reader must imagine a • very strong piece of timber lying beneath the fore transom and the perch, the ends of ■ -which are seen projecting in dotted lines beyond, carrying the fore wheels o and p, ■ fiij. 842., but which appears distinctly in fig. 845., where it is marked n, and also in an ' oblique position, 843. and 844., which represent the fore axle in the act of turning. An iron pin, called the perch boll, passes down through the fore transom and the fore ; axle bed, thus connecting together the under and upper carriages, and enabling the fore ; axle to turn on it as a centre, as is represented in figs. 843. and 844., which is the con- 1 trivance to make the carriage turn already spoken of. To render the nature of the under ■ carriage more evident, it is represented, not only in the dotted lines in figs. 842. and 844., t but by itself, and without the upper one, in fig. 843. To enable the horses to turn the fore axle, c, two curved pieces, q and r, called/nfc/ic/s, ; are framed into the fore axle bed, and are united together at s, called the chops g/" the )futchel, between which the pole, t, that passes between the horses, is inserted: u and v,