174 ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. closed apartments, and the hydrogen produces water. A pound of oil contains about 0-12 of a pound of hydrogen, 078 of carbon, and 0-1 of oxygen ; when burnt, it produces 1-06 of water, and 2-8G of carbonic acid, and the oxygen it takes from the atmosphere is equal to that contained in 13-27 cubic feet of air. A pound of London coal-gas contains, on an average, 0-3 of hydrogen, and 07 of carbon ; it produces, when burnt, 2-07 of water, and 2-56 of carbonic acid gas ; consumes 4-26 cubic feet of oxygen, equal to the quantity con- tained in 19-3 cubical feet of air. A pint of oil, when burnt, produces a pint and a quarter of water, and a pound of gas more than two and a half pounds of water; the in- crease of weight being due to the absorption of oxygen from the atmosphere, one part of hydrogen taking eight by weight of oxygen to form water. A London Argand gas lamp, in a closed shop window, will produce, in four hours, two pints and a half of water, to condense or not upon the glass or the goods, according to circumstances. A pound of oil also produces nearly three pounds of carbonic acid, and a pound of gas two and a half pounds of carbonic acid. For every cubical foot of gas burnt, rather more than a cubical foot of carbonic acid is produced. Now, carbonic acid is a deadly poison, an atmosphere containing even one-tenth of it is soon fatal to animal life. The various accidents from lime and brick-kilns, brewers' vats, occasionally from the sinking of wells, as at Chelten- ham, and from the choke damp in coal mines, attest the extreme danger contingent upon the presence of this substance. A man breathing in an atmosphere containing seven or eight parts of carbonic acid would suffer, not from any deficiency of oxygen, but from the deleterious action of the carbonic acid. M. Leblanc has recently analysed carefully the confined air of inhabited places, and concludes, as stated in his memoir, that the propor- tion of carbonic acid gas in such places may be regarded as measuring, with sufficient exactness, the insalubrity of the air ; that in the proportion of 1 part to 100 of air, ventila- tion is indispensable for the prevention of injury to the health ; that the proportion of car- bonic acid gas had better not exceed a five-hundredth part, though it may rise without inconvenience to a two-htmdredth part. If a room twelve feet square and twelve feet high, with the doors, windows, and fire-place closed, has a gas-lamp burning in it, consum- ing five cubic feet of gas per hour, the light will produce sufficient carbonic acid, in rather more than three hours, to be in the proportion of 1 part to 100 of air, and, as M. Leblanc states, when in such condition, the air is decidedly injurious to health; and even in one hour and a half it will produce that proportion of carbonic acid which he considers should never be exceeded. If a lighted taper be applied to the top of a lamp chimney, it will be instantly extinguished, or a glass jar held over it will become immediately filled with air in which a light cannot burn, nor can any animal live in it. Or if a portion of lime water be poured into the jar, it will become turbid in appearance, owing to the precipitation of the carbonate of lime, formed by the combination of the carbonic acid with the lime. Sulphureous and sulphuric acid are also contained in the water, which results from the combustion of coal gas, and are products injurious to metals and articles of furniture. " It will now be understood, that the object sought to be attained in the ventilation of lamp-burners is the entire removal of all the noxious products of combustion ; and with this view, at Professor Faraday's suggestion, the gas-lights of the chandelier in the library at the Athenajum were ventilated by pipes dipping into the lamp glasses, and conjoining, at a short distance upwards, into one central pipe, which carried away all the burnt air out of the room, fig. 152. In this first practical experiment many things were learned as to the mode of arranging the pipes ; the disposal, when the pipes were very long, of the water produced, &c. &c.; but the objects sought for by the ventilation w-ere at once and perfectly obtained. This principle may be illustrated by a simple experiment, show- ing the difference between allowing combustion to give its pro- ducts to the air of a room, and carrying ofi' these products, as soon as found, to the exterior. Let a short wax candle be placed burn- ing on a plate, a glass jar put over it, and the upper aperture of the jar closed by a globular cork, through which passes a piece of glass tube, about half an inch in di.ameter, and twelve or fourteen inches long : the tube descending to the top of the candle flame, and being placed just above it. Under these circumstances, there will be plenty of air passing into the jar between it and the plate, and out by the tube, to supply all that is needed for combustion, and keep the gla.ss chamber sweet: the consequence is, that in this position it will go on burning for any length of time, and the jar remain quite clqar and bright. Hut on moving the cork a little, ^>g- 1''2- so that the tube shall no longer be over the flame, all these results will change, though the airway remains exactly as before. The candle will now give the products of its combustion to the general air of the glass chamber, which imme- diately becomes dull, from water deposited upon it; the air itself will become worse and •worse, the light dim, and in a few minutes will go out; but if prevented, by the tube being