802 ON THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. Book X. of the syrup, admits of a greater extension of the finger and thumb, It is called the great thread. 2d. By longer boiling you obtain the pearl, which is denoted by the thread admitting of being drawn without break- ing by the utmost separation of the thumb and finger ; this makes candied sugar. 3d. By furtlier boiling you obtain the blow, which is known by dipping a skimmer with holes into the syrup and blowing through them; if bubbles are perceived, what is termed the blow is obtained. 4th. The/rn/A('r implies more nu- merous bubbles ; and then the sugar will fly off like flakes while the skimmer is quickly tossed. 5th. The ball .admits, by .idditionjil boiling, tlie syrup to be rolled into a bail, previously dipping the finger into water, then into the syrup, and subsequently into the water again. 6th. The crack denotes that it does not sticlc to the tooth, and cr.-icks when broken. To know when it has iittained this degree, dip a teaspoon or skewer into the sugar, and let it drop to the bottom of a pan of cold w.iter ; if the sugar remains hard, it has attained the degree termed crack. 7th. The last degree is termed the caramel, beyond which a partial burning, or rather carbonising, of the syrup will take place. This is a very elegant covering for sweetmeats. We should observe, thiit ornamental confectionery can seldom be executed well but by the hands of professed con- fectioners. 4598. Pulpy fruits are preserved whole in syrup, as follows. The fruits that are the most fit for this mode are, apricots, peaches, nectarines, apples, greengages, plums of all hinds, and pears. As an example, take some apricots not too ripe ; make a small slit at the stem end, and push out the stone; simmer them in water till they are softened and about half done, and afterwards throw them into cold water. When they have cooled, take them out, and drain them. Put the apricots into the preserving pan, with sufficient syrup to cover them ; let them boil up three or four times, and then skim them ; remove them from the fire, pour them into an earthen pan, and let them cool till next day. BoU them up three days successively, skimming each time, and they will then be finished, and in a state fit to be put into pots for use. After each boiling, it is proper to examine into the state of the syrup when cold; if too thin, it will bear additional boiling ; if too thick, it may be lowered with more syrup of the usual standard. The reason why the fruit is emptied out of the preserving pan into an earthen pan, is, that the acid of the fruit acts upon the copper of which the preserving pans are usually made. From this example, the process of preserving fruits by syrup will be easily comprehended. The first object is to soften the fruit by blanching or boiling it in water, in order that the syrup by which it is preserved may penetrate through its substance. In proportion as the fruit is unripe or hard, it will require to be boiled three or four times in the syrup ; when it is of a softer texture, the syrup drained otF and poured on the fruit in its boiling state, will be sufficient, as it is important to retain the shape and appearance of the fruit as perfect as possible. 4599. Fruits preserved by syrup without heat. —Many fruits when preserved by boiling lose much of their peculiar and delicate flavour, as for instance pine-apples; and this inconvenience may, in some instances, be remedied by preserving them without heat. Cut the fruit in slices, about one-fifth of an inch thick; strew powdered loaf sugar an eighth of an inch thick in the bottom of a jar, and put the slices on it. Put more sugar on this, and then another layer of the slices, and so on till the jar is full. Place the jar with the fruit up to the neck in boiling water, and keep it there till the sugar is com- pletely dissolved, which may take half an hour, removing the scimi as it rises. Lastly, tie a wet bladder over the mouth of the jar, or cork and wax it. 4600. Dry confecls or fruits preserved by boiling in syrup and drying afterwards. —Any of the fruits that have been preserved in syrup may be converted into dry preser\'es, by first draining them from the syrup, and then drying them in a stove or very moderate oven ; adding to them a quantity of powdered loaf sugar, which will gradually penetrate the fruit, while the fluid parts of the syrup gently evaporate. They should be dried in the stove or oven, on a sieve, and turned every six or eight hours, fresh powdered sugar being sifted over them every time they are turned. Afterwards they are to be kept in a dry situation in drawers or boxes. Currants and cherries preserved whole in this manner, in bunches, are extremely elegant, and have a fine flavour. In this way it is also that orange and lemon chips are preserved. 4601. Marmalades, jams, and fruit pastes. — The preserves which bear these names are of the same nature, and are now in very general request; they are prepared without difficulty by attending to a few directions ; they are little expensive, and they may be kept without spoiling for a considerable time. 4602. Marmalades and jams differ little from each other: they are preserves of a half liquid consistence, made by boiling the pulp of fruits, and sometimes part of the rinds, with sugar. The appellation of marmalade is applied to those confitures which are com- posed of the firmer fruits, as pine-apples or the rinds of oranges ; whereas jams are made of the more juicy berries, such as strawberries, raspberries, currants, mulberries, &c. Fruit pastes are a kind of marmalades, consisting of the pulp of fruits first evaporated to a proper consistence, and afterwards boiled with sugar. The mixture is then poured into a mould, or spread out on sheets of tin, and subseqtiently dried in the oven or store till it has acquired the state of a paste. From a sheet of this paste, strips may be cut and formed into any shape that may be desired, as knots, rings, &c. In the more juicy fruits, the pulp is boiled till much of the aqueous part is evaporated, before the sugar is added. This is best performed in broad shallow vessels ; but when the pulpy matter begins to get thick, great care is necessary to prevent its burning. Thi^