CChap. III. 581 BREWING. lanuch as -will serve to wet the malt or grist thoroughly, and make a thick mash. The malt ^should be shaken in quickly, and a second person should stir it about well with the mash- idng oar or stick described above. The malt must be thoroughly broken and mixed, so tithat there are no clots or lumps, on the same principle as in making paste. In this state the mash may remain for a few minutes, and in the meantime, having cgot ready more water of the proper heat, the mash tub should be filled up to the proper iiheight by adding the remainder of the water by degrees, according to the quantity of the aale intended to be made, stirring all the while, and mixing the whole well with the oars I'for twenty minutes or half an hour, according to the quantity of the malt. Some sticks sshould then be laid over the mash tub, which should be covered with cloths,- sacks, hblankets, or old carpets, to keep in the heat, and the whole suffered to remain quiet for aabout an hour and a half. 3278. When it has remained so as long as is considered necessary, the sweet or ale wort sshould be drawn off. For this purpose, the cock or spigot should be opened, a very llittle at first, to see if the wort runs clear. This must be done with caution, letting the wort run with a small stream, lest some of the grains or floury matter should come rwith the wort. The first gallon or so that is drawn should not be suffered to go into the uunderback, but should be put into a bucket, and if it is not quite clear, it should be re- t turned gently into the mashing tub, and a little more time allowed, till, by several trials, tthe wort is found to come clear : the cock or spigot may then be opened, and the whole rrun off into the underback. If the heat of the liquor has been managed judiciously, with rrespect to the quality of the malt, the wort will run perfectly clear. If it does not part ffreely from the malt, the heat has been much too high, and the malt has been subject, i more or less, to the accident of setting, which is carefully to be avoided, since this is irre- imediable, and the brewing runs great risk of being totally spoiled. The wort should Ibe about the temperature of from 140° to 150° when it runs into the underback. While tthe wort has been mashing and running off, as much water must be boiled in the copper aas is sufficient for the second mash, scalding the casks, &c. As the ale wort is drawn off into the underback, it should be laded into the fermenting t tub, by means of the bowl with a handle, to be ready for the boiling, if the underback i:is not large enough to hold the whole of the wort; but if there is a second copper, it sshould be transferred into it immediately, which is the best practice. The water that has been heating in the copper is now to be poured upon the grains for ithe second mash, for table beer. But to prevent confusion in our account, we will leave tthe second mash for the present, and follow up the process of managing the wort that is tto be made into ale, and when we have got that into the cellar, we will then return to tthe second mash and the preparation of the table beer. 3279. Hie next process in brewing, after making the first mash, is boiling the sweet or ale vwort with hops. In our "Principles of Brewing," we have shown that the chief use of t the hops is to coagulate the mucilage of the wort, and to communicate an agreeable laromatic bitter to the liquor. If there is only one copper, as soon as it had been emptied of the water that was boiled iiin it for the mash, the fire should be damped to prevent burning the copper, and a little wwater should be left in the boiler, to cover the bottom. The ale wort is next to be put into the copper, and with it the proper quantity of hops, "well rubbed, and separated, or previously steeped in water ; and great attention must be ppaid to the boiling, to prevent the liquor boiling up suddenly. The hops must be kept ddown with the mash stirrer, and be well broken, and at last they will subside to the bottom; tibut care must be taken, lest the latter should stick to the bottom of the copper, which »wou!d cause them to burn to, and infallibly occasion an unpleasant taste. No certain rules can be given for the time the boiling is to continue before the coagu- llation may be expected, as that will depend upon the strength of the wort, and of the hops. ^Strong worts will generally require from half an hour to three quarters, and weaker ones i^rom two hours to two hours and a half. The coagulation, called breaking, is observed tifirst by the liquor becoming clouded with large fleecy flakes which appear swimming labout in it. When the boiling has contmued for some time, it is necessary to take out a ^ small quantity of the wort from time to time in a convenient vessel (a large glass is best) ; t the liquor will at first appear foul and turbid, from the flakes or curdy substances. A iigreat part of this, being heavier than the wort, will subside. When no more subsidence t:takes place, and the wort is clear, it is a proof that it is sufiiciently boiled; and there is lino advantage in continuing the boiling longer, except the wort be found too weak, and it itis thought necessary to evaporate some of the water, a circumstance which it is desirable < should not be necessary, since that will dissipate the aroma and fine flavour of the hop ; ■ and indeed this is seldom required, except when a mistake in the quantity of the water is I to be rectified. 3280. When the lime fi>r hniling has expired, the wort must be carried to the coolers, i But first it must be strained from the hops. In large breweries this is done by passing