479 .3HAP. VIII. DESCRIPTION OF VEGETABLES AND FRUITS. SuBSECT. 9.—Elicavipane {Inula Helenium, Linn.)- 2589. This aromatic plant was formerly in great repute in England, for its medicinal 'irtues, and was to be found in every physic garden. It is still cultivated, and the root is ■jandied as a stomachic. It is found wild in moist pastures in the south of England. StiBSECT. 10.—Liquorice {Glycyrrliiza glabra). 2590. This medicinal plant is a native of the south of Europe, but has been cultivated nn this country since 1562, chiefly for the use of brewers and distiUers. The liquorice of bhe shops is the juice of the roots obtained by expression, decoction, and mspissation, and is manufactured only in Sicily and Spain : hence the name Spanish juice. It grows so lUbimdantly in these countries and in Languedoc, that it is considered as a weed like the worse-radish here, and is looked upon as a great nuisance to the cultivator. Its roots wenetrate to a great depth, and are difficult to eradicate. SuBSECT. 11.— Wormwood (^Aremisia Absinthium, Linn.). 2591. The intense bitter of this plant is so great as to render it proverbial. Its odour ss strong, and though fragrant, yet to many persons it is disagreeable and nauseous. It :^ows wild in England, but is likewise cultivated for several purposes, though less used hhan formerly. It has tonic properties, and is sometimes employed as a stomachic. The ■French beverage or liqueur, called eau d'absinthe, thought to create an appetite, is pre- oared from wormwood, by the addition of alcohol and subsequent distillation. The active oart seems to be the extractive, for the essential oil which it contains is not in the least bitter. Before the use of hops was known, wormwood was much employed in the com- '■Dosition of beer or ale : for this purpose it was gathered when in seed, and dried : some prefer its flavour to that of the hop. SuBSECT. 12.—Balm (Melissa officinalis, Linn.). 2592. Balm, formerly much employed in medicine, is still found to make a very i^ateful and useful drink in fevers. The herb, in its natural state, has a weak aromatic xaste, and a pleasant smell, somewhat of the lemon kind. It was originally brought from hhe south of France. The leaves may be kept dried in the sun or oven and preserved for lase. Sect. XIII. PLANTS USED ONLY IN PRESERVES AND PICKLES. 2593. Many of the plants already described, as well as many foreign plants and fruits, lare made into preserves and pickles: the following are a few that are not employed in lany other way. SuBSECT. 1.— Caper {Capperis spinosa. Linn.), 2594. Capers, so much employed in sauces, are the unopened buds of a low trailing ;bhrub or bush that grows wild like brambles in the fissures of rocks in Greece and the laorth of Africa, and is cultivated in the south of Europe. They are pickled in salt and 'Tinegar, and come to us from Italy, Sicily, and the south of France; the best are from IToulon. SuBSECT. 2. — Samphire (^Crithmum maritimum, Linn.). 2595. Samphire is a native of Britain, and is found growing on rocky clifis by the sea, land in dry stone walls. The danger incurred by gathering it is described by Shakspeare nn a well-known passage in King Lear. It is not easily cultivated, but is chiefly gathered cn its wild state for pickling, and as an addition to salads. It is crisp and aromatic. (Golden samphire and marsh samphire are varieties likewise found upon the sea shore, or En salt marshes, and applied to the same use. SuBSECT. 3.— Tomato, or Love-apple {Solanum lycopersicum.'). 2596. This is a native of South America, and Tomato is the Portuguese name. The 'fruit is about the size of a small apple, contains a very agreeable acid, and is now much used in gravies, soups, and sauces. It is also served at table boiled or roasted, and some- :imes fried with eggs. When green, it makes a good pickle and ketchup, and is found m our vegetable markets : even in its unripe state it makes an excellent sauce, like lapples or gooseberries, for roast pork or goose: when fully ripe, it makes an excellent store ■sauce.