FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. 1004 In this new process, therefore, the steeping in bleaching liquor is substituted for expo- sure on the grass, and the bowking in alkaline ley and steeping in a solution of chloride of lime are repeated several times, until the -whiteness is sufficient; afterwards the cloth is well washed, passed through sulphuric acid diluted, and washed again with soap; and, lastly, is finished by starching, blueing, and calendering. 5914. The chloride of lime is made on a great scale in the north of England in the fol- lowing manner : — Lime is spread upon the stone floor, or stone shelves, in a closed room, and the chlorine in the state of gas is conveyed into the room by a pipe, when a com- bination takes place between the chlorine and the lime. The chlorine gas is formed in a leaden vessel by mixing equal parts of black oxide of manganese and salt, and pouring on an equal quantity of sulphuric acid with as much water; the chlorine gas disengages, and from the vessel a leaden pipe leads it to the lime room. In this case the salt and the black oxide of manganese are decomposed; the sodium is converted into soda, by attracting oxygen from the oxide of manganese, and that salt, combining with the sulphuric a.ci&, forms sulphate of soda, whilst the chlorine passes off in the form of a gas. 591.5. Bleaching liquid is then made by adding one pound of fresh chloride of lime to two gallons and a half of cold water, which probably does not cost the manufacturer above a farthing a gallon. 5916. The mode in which this bleaching liquor acts is the following. When water is added to it, this effects its partial decomposition, by lessening the affinity of the chlorine for the lime; hence one-half the chlorine leaves the lime, and dissolves in the water; it is therefore ready to act upon the colouring matter of the stuff exposed to it; and as we have shown that the effect of chlorine is to destroy colour, this is accordingly what hap- pens when coloured cloth is immersed in the liquid. » To increase the bleaching power of this fluid, a little acid is sometimes added, which, uniting to the lime, detaches still more chlorine. Sect. IL BLEACHING VfOOL. 5917. Tn the bleaching of wool, it is necessary first to free it from the natural grease, called yolk, which it contains; and this is done by scouring it with water mixed with stale urine, the ammonia which this contains being sufficient to remove the grease. In the employment of alkaline leys for this purpose, great caution must be used ; for though wool is insoluble in water, it is capable of being dissolved by a strong alkali. 'When the expense is not an objection, scouring with soap is practised, as preferable. Sulphureous acid, or the vapour produced by burning sulphur, is likewise employed for whitening wool, as well as exposure on the grass. Sect. IIL bleaching cotton. 5918. The bleaching of cotton, in the first instance, being always performed by the manufacturer, does not come within the scope of domestic economy, and therefore need not be treated of here much in detail. MTien the cotton cloth comes from the loom it is covered with light hairy filaments, which are singed off by passing the web over a heated copper cylinder. The fibres of cotton are covered with a resinous matter, and with a very small quantity of colouring matter, which are removed by an alkaline ley, or by exposvire several times to steam and rinsing in water, previous to bleaching and dyeing. The weaver's dressing has also to be removed ; and the bleaching is now generally performed by chloride of lime. . . . 5919. After the bleaching of cotton cloth is completed, to improve its appearance it is usually'passed through starch made of wheaten flour, mixed with porcelain clay and calcined gypsum or whiting; by which the cloth is made stiffer, and to exhibit greater substance apparently than it proves to have after being washed. This process was originally contrived for the purposes of fraud ; and though now too generally understood to deceive many persons, yet the practice ought to be laid aside. The cloth is then dried on cylinders heated by steam, and is afterwards calendered, folded, and pressed. Dyemg and printing are subsequent processes. Sect. IV. bleaching silk. 5920. Silk In he bleached must first he deprived of the natural varnish with which the filaments arc coated, and to which is ascribed much of its stiffness and elasticity. This