432 ON FOOD. Book VIL shipped for London -within three months from one place ; and a regular " English lobster company " has agents actively employed all along the coast. Occasionally, though rarely, lobsters are taken by the hand, or rather by a hook, from under hollow stones at low •water, but by far the greatest quantity are caught in a kind of trap formed of twigs and baited with garbage ; these are fastened by a cord and sunk into the sea, and their place marked by a buoy. Lobsters arc highly prolific; 12,400 ova or eggs have been counted under the tail of one female, besides that which remained in the body unprotruded. The eggs are deposited in the sand, where they are hatched. They change their sheUs annually, Previously to putting off their old one, they appear sickly, languid, and restless ; and they acquire a new coat in a few days after casting off the former one. During the time that they are thus defenceless, they seek very retired places, for fear of being attacked and devoured by such of their brethren as are not in that weak condition. The new shell is membranous at first, but hardens by degrees, and they grow in size while the shell is in this soft state. The circumstance of lobsters throwing oS their great claws voluntarily is very surprising, but sufficiently authenticated. If taken or entangled by the great claws they will sometimes part with it by a sudden jerk, and thus effect their escape. Pennant says, that when irritated, as when it thunders, or when great guns are fired, they will lose their claws. And scarcely less extraordinary is the reproduction of these members, which grow again in the course of a few weeks, after the mischance has happened ; but the new claws are not quite so large as the former ones. In the water they can run nimbly upon their legs or small claws, and if alarmed can spring tail foremost to the surprising distance of thirty feet, and as swift as a bird can fly. They are extremely voracious, feeding upon any kind of dead fish, and sometimes on sea-weed. 2257. Lobsters are certainly nutritive, but not so much so as is commonly supposed; they are not very easUy digestible, and therefore require condiments, of which the most proper are those usually made use of, vinegar and pepper. On certain constitutions they have sometimes pernicious effects, and are known to have occasioned eruptions on the skin, and other distressing symptoms of derangement. Great care should be taken that they be in good condition, and absolutely fresh. When stale they are undoubtedly unwholesome in a very considerable degree. The fishmongers in London generaUy underboil them, with a view to their keeping, in which case they are extremely indigestible. According to Dr. Kitchener, they come into season about AprU, and continue plentiful till the oyster season returns in the autumn. 2258. Lobsters brought alive from the northern extremity of the island in smacks with wells for the purpose, are often much wasted on their journey ; their weight, therefore, is one proof of their goodness : but to ensure their being fresh, it is best always to buy them alive, and to boil them at home. 2259. The ova or eggs, called by the cook berries, and sometimes the coral, appear under the tail of the hen or female lobster only, and are black when raw, becoming in succession nearly as large as elder-berries before they are all deposited; the lobster continues de- positing them as long as any remain in the body ; when boiled, they are of a beautiful red colour. It is a common mistake to suppose that a berried lobster is always in perfection for the table. When the berries are large and brownish, the lobster will be found exhausted, watery, and poor. The male lobsters are preferred for eating, particularly during the ■winter : it is distinguished from the female, not only by its want of the eggs under the tail, but by a narrower back part to the tail, with a strong spine, upon the centre of each of the transverse processes underneath it, which supports its four middle plates; the two upper- most fins within his tail being stiff and hard, while those of the female are soft, and her tail broader. The female is best for sauce, on account of her eggs. The bag in the body of the lobster, called the " old lady in her arm chair," containing the bony teeth, is the stomach, and is not fit to be eaten. In choosing lobsters that are boiled, select those that are of a middling size, and heaviest for their bulk: to know if they are fresh, try if the tail has a springiness and will flap back again when raised up. 2260. The common sea crawfish (Cancer palinurus) is similar in its general properties to the lobster, but is less esteemed. SuBSECT. 2.— The Crab (Cancer pagurus. Linn.). 2261. The crab inhabits most of the rocky shores of England, and is taken in the same way as the lobster. It is in the highest perfection for the table about Christmas. The same observations which were made with respect to the nutritive and other qualities of the lobster apply to this crustaceous animal. Besides the cancer pagurus, the crab, which grows to a large size, and which is the only one brought to table, is called in Scotland