BREWING. 597 Chap. HI. hastening this subsidence of the floating matter that occasions its muddiness. The means of effecting this is called Fining. In London, beer is often sent (o tlie publican as soon as the fermentation is over, and before it lias had time to become clear ; it is then usual to send along with it a quantity of liquid called finings, and the publican puts a portion into each cask. Various substances are used to mix with beer to occasion the precipitation of the impurities, and rendering it clear and transparent; but the most usual of these is isinglass, and it is the only substance which the legislature permits the public brewer to employ in fining. But isinglass will not answer for fining, if dissolved in hot water ; if added in this manner it will coagulate and f;dl to the bottom without carrying the feculences with it. For this purpose it is dissolved in vinegar, or in very old, stale, or sour beer ; and when it is once dissolved it is reduced by adding some mild beer to the solution. It should be stirred about well, and after this it must be strained through a hair sieve or coarse cloth: abrush is useful in forcing it through the sieve, when it should be of the usual consistence of beer, and it should be transparent. The quantity employed may be from a pint to a quart per barrel: but this proportion must necessarily vary according to the degree of foulness of the beer. To try whether the fining will act properly, it.is necessary first to make an experiment with it. Put some of the beer to be fined into a large half-pint phial, or tall clean glass of any kind holding this measure, and add to it a little of the finings prepared for use, taking the weight of what you use. Observe the effect which it has upon the beer. This effect will probably be, that the feculences will begin to collect in large fleecy masses, which will gradually rise to the top, leaving the beer perfectly clear. But the quantity of finings so employed may be more than is really necessary, and it is not desirable to have more isinglass in the beer than can be avoided. Make, therefore, another experiment with tlie same quantity of beer, but with less of the finings ; and if the effect does not take place s.itisfactorily, of rendering the beer transparent, the first pro- portion must be adhered to. If with the smallest proportion of finin^js the beer is cleared, make another experiment with still less, and satisfy yourself that you have ascertained the least proportion of finings that will act decidedly, before you put the whole of the finings into the cask. To fix upon the right quantity of finings for the cask, ascertain how many half-pints there are in the cask ; say there are 200: then multiply the weight of the finings in the successful experiment by 200, the product will be the weight of finings for the beer. Many persons may not be disposed to take this trouble, but it is a more certain mode than mere guessing ; and those who desire to be accurate will not object to it. 3374. Filling should never he used but in case of necessity, as any addition of this kind to the beer promotes acetification, an effLCt which the brewers well know, as they never add it to the liquor till they are just going to part with it; besides this, the stirring up the liquor is injurious, from risking a renewal of fermentation. Beer that has been fined, unless the cellar be particularly cool, is liable to turn sour, especially if it be of no great strength. Transparency, or ^»C7ie5s, as it is called, is essential to the keeping of beer ; but this pro- perty should be the result of good brewing, and should not be produced by art. 3375. The mode in which the fining operates is by entangling and combining with the floating imdissolved substances suspended in the liquor, after which the action of the alcohol coagulates it in the same manner as it does whites of eggs; and the whole being specifically lighter than the liquor, it rises to the top, and, as is the case in some wines, it floats as u scum. This coagulated matter falls to the bottom if specifically heavier. 3376. Several other substances 7nay be used instead of isinglass, although none answers better. Gel.itine prepared from any material, as hartshorn shavings or ivory turnings, will give a jelly that will do. Albumen •dso may be used, as whites of eggs, or the serum of bullocks' blood. The sounds of cod-fish, being also the swimming bladder of that fish, is of the same nature as isingl.ass, and when well dried and treated as above described, will answer nearly as well for fining; but, when the quantity used is considerable, they are apt to leave a fishy taste in the beer. Mr. Donovan states tliat alum has been found to be a good substitute lor isinglass; about an ounce in powder, dissolved in a hogshead of beer, will effect this purpose, without com- municating any taste, or having any prejudicial effect. 3377. Ropiness in beer is a disease which sometimes occurs, and is supposed to be owing to ill-made malt; sometimes from an injudicious mixture of uimialted barley, or perhaps from too much mucilage being left in the beer. It is difficult to cure. Mr. Black directs the beer to be put into a vat with a false bottom, and to add per barrel four or five pounds of hops taken gradually away after the first boiling of the wort; to this may be added about ^ lb. per barrel of mustard seed. The beer should be roused as the hops are gradually introduced, and in some months the ropiness will be cured. The beer shoidd be drawn off from below the false bottom. Sect. X. BOTTLING MALT LIQUOR. 3378. All kinds of malt liquor are much improved by botding; and this is, at the same time, accompanied by the advantage of its keeping in a brisk state. The liquor is improved and mellowed by the slow fermentation it undergoes ; and the carbonic acid which is disen- gaged being confined is absorbed by the liquor : upon withdrawing the cork, and conse- quently the pressure, the imprisoned air escapes suddenly, and occasions the appearance of briskness. 3379. To succeed in botding malt liquor, it is necessary to be particular as to their state at the time it is wished to bottle. The custom is, to leave a small portion of the saccha- rine matter unattenuated, or in a state fit for very slow fermentation in the bottle. But the fermentation should be nearly completed, for if it is not, too much air would be gene- rated, and the bottles would probably burst : again, if the liquor is quite flat, it is of no use to bottle it, as the fermentation being over, it would then turn sour. On drawing out the vent-peg of the cask, if the liquor spirts out with violence, it is evident that the ferment- ation is still going on ; but if the liquor appears still, yet on tasting is found to be in good condition, and brisk, then it is ready for bottling. Should the beer appear a little too brisk and frothy while bottling, the bottles may be left open for a few hours, and filled up as the froth works out; but they should be filled only within an inch of the cork. It must be observed, that if the corks are driven in while the liquor is still working much, there is Qq 3