BREWING. ClIAP. III. horizontal wooden blades, r, c, e, projecting from it, -winch being made to revolve, the blades succeeding each other break completely all the lumps, and prevent the malt from settling at the bottom. The saving of human labour by this means is very considerable, and the mashing is much more perfect. We have described this mode, which is one of the greatest improvements in the great breweries, not because it is absolutely necessary to do so, for it would very seldom perhaps be adopted in private brewing except on a very large scale ; but because it is proper to know what is the most perfect mode of per- forming any process : the narrow wooden shovels called oars are all that are used in ordinary domestic brewing. After the stirring has been continued for about three quarters of an hour, a cover must be put over the mash tun, to prevent the escape of heat, and the whole must be left quiet for the same length of time, about an hour or more, that the materials may react on each other, and likewise that the fine floury matter which had been mixed up with the water may subside ; otherwise the wort, instead of being transparent, would run off muddy from the suspension of the fine particles. 3175. It has been a common idea, that during this time the water is merely taking up the soluble part of the malt; but it is highly probable that another action likewise takes place, and that it is in the mash that a very large proportion of the starchy matter of the malt is really converted into that saccharine principle essential to fermentation, as we have stated already. This change appears not to be instantaneous, for the sweetness in the wort for the first ten minutes is inconsiderable, but it becomes gradually more and more so during perhaps two hours, notwithstanding the water is becoming cooler all the while. 3176. Several facts appear to render it probable that the saccharine matter is not completely developed in the malt. If cold water be left on malt for any length of time, it does not become sweet, or very little so, and it will soon become sour; hence it is evident that the saccharine matter of malt is not soluble in cold water : but it is dissolved by hot water, and once extracted by this it remains always soluble, not only in hot, but likewise in cold water : it must therefore have undergone some change : and from this we see the necessity of mashing with warm, instead of cold water. 3177. Another fact proves that saccharine matter is formed in the mash tun as well as in malting. It is now known that raw barley, if mixed with a certain quantity of malt, will give as sweet a taste to the mash as if the whole was malt, and can be made to ferment without being malted. This had long been secretly practised hy the Scotch distillers of whiskey, with a view to evade the duty on malt, and indeed the expense also of preparing it. When the method -v^as known to the brewers, it was resorted to by them also, producing an immense saving, but the practice was put a stop to by the excise. Private individuals are, however, at liberty to employ it for their own use. It is evident here, that the elfect produced upon a portion of malt is communicated to the starch of the raw barley, and this is supposed to be the result of a particular species of fermentation which we have already described as the saccharine fermentation. The formation of the sugar, therefore, begun in the malting, is completed in the mashing. 3178. We shall now point out an accident to which mashing is very liable, which it is absolutely necessary to guard against, and the nature of which cannot be comprehended without having recourse to those chemical principles which we are blending in our account. The accident to which we allude is called setting by brewers. When the water used for the mash is of too high a temperature, the whole often thickens and becomes of a pasty nature, which prevents the water passing through it, or the wort from draining off; in this case, the whole mash is irrecoverably lost, the liquor remaining locked up in the paste. The cause of this curious phenomenon we shall now explain. We have already pointed out, that although the usual notion is, that the whole of the starch of the barley is converted into saccharine malt during malting, yet that in fact only a part is so converted, and that when the malt is ground for mashing, it still contains the greatest part of its starch slightly changed. Now it is a fact well known to every laundress, that pure starch is not acted upon by water heated below 160°, but when the temperature of the water is raised to the boiling point, or nearly so, it then thickens into a gelatinous mass, from a combination with the water, which is the state in which it is brought for stiffening linen.' The accident of «e<<i«j in the mash is exactly analogous to this. It is owing to the water being heated to such a degi-ee as is capable of gelatinising the starch of the malt, or converting it into a stiff gluey paste, which prevents the water from pene- trating into the body of it; consequently it cannot have access to and dissolve the saccha- rine part. The nature of this danger being clearly impressed upon the mind, it will be easily perceived, that we must take care that the mean heat of the mash, when mixed, should not be too great, otherwise we sliall run a great risk of setting ; this heat should never exceed 185° at the utmost; at 198°, most kinds of malt afford a cloudy wort. 3179. IJul there are some other circumstances to be understood, before we can be pi-epared against all the accidents and failures which may arise from an improper temperature of the water used in mashing. It is evident that if hot water be poured upon cold malt, that the O o 3