707 ON COFFEE. CUAP. XI. CHAP. XI. ON COFFEE. * Sect. I. HISTORY OF COFFEE. 4050. The introduction of cofifee into this country is comparatively of recent date. We are assured by Bruce that the cofifee tree is a native of Abyssinia, and it is said to have been cultivated in that country from time immemorial. As a general and esteemed beverage, we read of its having been first used in Arabia and Persia, but there are various accounts of its early history. Some say that, having been foimd useful by some Arabian dervises to keep themselves awake, it was introduced into Persia by a mufti of Aden, from whence it found its way to the principal cities of that kingdom. It was afterwards carried into Turkey by Selim, on his conquest of Egypt, but it was not until 1554 that it was publicly sold in Constantinople. As the Turks are forbidden the use of wine, it came into great request among them on account of its exhilarating qualities ; in consequence of which numerous coffee-houses were esta- blished that were much resorted to, causing great neglect of the mosques. This produced a solemn complaint from the ministers of the Mahometan religion, and the drinking of cofifee was at length prohibited by the mufti. The use of it was, however, again per- mitted by Solyman the Great, and it was then subjected to a tax, since which time it has been universally employed by the Turks. The Venetians brought it from the Levant in 1615 ; and, thirty years afterwards, some gentlemen, returning from Constantinople to Marseilles, carried home with them this luxury. 4051. It appears that coffee ivas first introduced in England by Daniel Edwards, a Turkcij merchant, whose servant, Pasqua, a Greek, understood the manner of roasting it. The servant, under the patronage of Edwards, established the first colfee-house in London, in George Yard, Lombard-street, Cofifee was then sold at four or five guineas a pound; and a duty was soon afterwards laid upon it of four-pence a gallon, when made into a beverage. Until that time its culture was confined to the East ; and it was owing to the Dutch and French that it has been naturalised in South America and the West Indies. Cofl'ee trees were carried from Mocha to Holland, and so lately as 1714, a coffee plant was presented to Louis XIV. by the magistrates of Amsterdam, and was placed at Marly under the care of the celebrated Jussieu : a few years afterwards some of the progeny of this plant was conveyed to Cayenne and Martinique, the Dutch having previously intro- duced it into Surinam. In these tropical regions its cultivation spread rapidly, and all the varieties of it, as the Mocha, the Bourbon, Jamaica, &c., have been the result of various soUs, climates, and modes of cultivation. Thus, in the course of two centuries, has a berry, unknown originally as an article of food, except to some savage tribes on the confines of Abyssinia, made its way through the whole of the civilised world. On the Continent, especially in France, coffee is in universal request, and it is now very generally used in Britain. In Mohammedan nations it is drunk twice a day by all ranks, from the Sultan to the peasant. Sect. IL the coffee plant, and its cultivation. 4052. Tlie plant that produces coffee (Coffea Arahica) belongs to the natural order of the JRubiacea, and cannot be gi-own to advantage in countries where the thermometer descends at any time below 55°. The tree grows to the height of twelve or fifteen feet, with leaves not unlike those of the common laurel, although more pointed and not so dry and thick, fi<j. 585. The blossoms are white, much like those of jasmine, and issue from the angles of the leaf-stalks. When the flowers fade, they are succeeded by the coffee bean, or seed, which is inclosed in a berry of a red colour, when ripe, resembling a cherry. Each berry contains two oval seeds, or beans, which are surrounded by a yellowish glutinous pulp. These seeds, constituting the coffee of commerce, have one side convex, and the other flat, witli a little straight furrow, as we see in the common coH'cc bean ; they are placed with the flat sides together, and arc covered by a tough mcm- Z z 2