146 Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. as two without shades. The shades are japanned, white within, to reflect the light strongly: a,fi(j. 108., may be for one candle, or, by repeating the branch on the opposite side, for two. In 108., the shade is oval, and concentrates the light best. 677. The best reading candlesticks at present in use are Palmer's, and the Soho, already mentioned. 678. Bedchamber candlesticks, a and b, Jig. 109., are always made low, with an extinguisher, and sometimes a pair of snuffers attached. In b, the light is protected by a glass, which is useful in carrying. Fig. 110. is intended for the light to be raised or lowered ; and by being made to swing, it is very useful on board of ships. Japanned candlesticks for bedchambers usually have the bottom of the socket to slide up by means of a slit and a projecting piece on the side; and this permits the candle to be burned to the last bit. This con- struction is also generally applied to the common brass candlesticks; but in these, a wire is made to come down from the moveable bottom through the middle of the stem to the foot, so as to be invisible on the outside; and the candle is pushed up by pressing upon a knob on the end of the wire. The same construction cannot be applied to plated candlesticks, nor to those of earthenware. Bedchamber candlesticks are made of silver, brown, plated, and tin japanned; the last are remarkably cheap, and are very generally used. They exhibit a remarkable instance of what may be done in manufactures on the score of economy ; a candle- stick of this kind, japanned and painted, with snuffers and extinguisher complete, may be bought in the retail shops in London for Gd., and though not so strong nor so well finished as more expensive ones, yet is neat, and will answer very well for ordinary purposes. 679. Ti?i is the best material for kitchen candlesticks: those which are Fig. no. japanned brown save some trouble in cleaning, but require much care to prevent the varnish from coming off : these should never be put near to the fire to clean, but should have the tallow melted off by hot water. Office candlesticks are best of the latter kind ; and it is very important that these and kitchen ones should always be fur- nished with snuffers and extinguishers, fixed to them by a piece of chain ; many accidents by fire having occurred through neglect in putting candles out, when there is no ex- tinguisher. 680. Candlestick stands are occasionally used to raise the candlesticks on the dining table. They should, if possible, correspond in style to the candlesticks; and should be made heavy at the bottom. 681. Economical housewives use, for burning their ends of candles, a little apparatus called as«!;c-a//, which deserves mnchmore patronage thanit meetswith. Itis usuallymade with a socket to fit into the candlestick, on which is a cir- cular cup, with three projecting wires to fix the piece of candle between. These wires bend, and are soon out of order, which maybe one reason why this is not a favourite; but instead of wires, pieces of tin plate may be substituted, as in a. Jig. 111., which last much longer; and also the save-all may be furnished with a handle, a construction which is very much superior. Some are made with a single-poiuted wire to fi.v the candle upon, as in b; and others are made of earthenware, to imitate a candle, as in c, by which, when the piece is put on, it looks like a whole candle.