UAV. II. METHODS OF WARMING DOMESTIC BUILDINGS, 79 Fig. 60. jirtment : they are extremely useful in warming shops and other places where there is onsiderable circulation of air, and where the effects of heated air are not perceived so wch as in confined places. .1A, Jig. 64., may be supposed to be any hollow figure of cast iron. There is a partition in ;; middle that does not reach quite to the top, and in one of the divisions is the fire grate, a; fire door, b; and ash pit, with its door, d. When the fire is lighted, and the fire door shut, the smoke first rises to the top ; but, finding no outlet, it is im- pelled by the pressure of the air that feeds the fire to descend through the other division, and to pass along the horizontal flue e to the main flue /, which carries it to the top into the atmosphere. This principle being kept in view, the forms may he varied ad in- finitum, and some are made extremely elegant. It should be observed, that when good fires are kept every day in these stoves with descending flues, the heat retained in the chimney, causing a slight current even in the morning before the fires are lighted, wUI detemiine the proper course of the smoke, but in hder cases it is rather troublesome to make it descend at first; but once the flues are ir.rmed the draught goes on perfectly well. 3355. The air stove, which, some time ago, was very common in our shops, but which has now very generally given way to the Arnott and other stoves, is represented in fig. 65. It was one of the first improvements upon the common iron German stove. Besides the simple iron fire chamber, there was also an external casing of iron surrounding that at the distance of two or three inches; by which con- f|jf struction, however much the fire chamber might be I 1 heated, even if it were made red hot, the same degree of heat would not be communicated to the external casing, on account of the space between being filled with air. This stove is therefore much less dangerous, on account of fire, than the common German stove. The lower part of the space between the two casings is left open, by which the cold air enters below and gets heated between the two iron cases, and issues out at the top through a perforated regulator. The ^'S-^- defects of this stove are, that the air may still be erheated, by using much fire, and that the warm air comes out only at the top of the itve, a considerable way above the floor. IFig. 06. is anotlier air stove of similar construction, only the fire is lined with brick or fire stone, which prevents the air being overheated, and the warmed air comes out through the grating on the sides. A sliding plate at the upper part of the opening acts as an occasional blower. 356. The Pennsylvania or Franklin stove, fig. 67, 68., is evidently borrowed, as to its principle, from a fire place described in a book entitled " Mechanique de Feu," published in 1713. It is well adapted for heating an apartment, and at the same time affording a view of the fire ; but being entirely made of iron, it has the usual defect of all the stoves made of this metal in producing an unpleasant efi'ect upon the air of the room. It was originally intended only for burning wood; lately, however, they have in America con- structed it for burning coal. Fig. 67. is a view of the stove placed in the chimney, and fig. 68. is a vertical section. The fire a is made upon the iron hearth, and is partly inclosed between iron checks. The smoke, after rising up to the top of the stove, turns under the •■•ver, and goes down at h,fig. 68., descending as low as the hearth to c, whence it passes iwards into the main flue (/. The partition e is built up in the chimney, and the throat is ■osed by an iron plate/, so that no air from the room can go out that way. The whole ' the stove being of iron, is much heated by the fire, and communicates its heat to the mrrounding air as in a common German stove. But it likewise throws into the room a iream of air brought from without and warmed. This is effected in the following