833 Chap. III. CULINARY APPARATUS. Fig. 680. which will now be absolutely empty, or, as it is termed, a vacuum. This vacuum would have to resist an immense pressure from the surrounding atmosphere; and if the sides of the vessel were not very strong they would give way : but steam itself is able to resist this pressure, as well as the air. From this it must be understood that steam may be conveyed in pipes to any distance, provided the heat of 212° can be sustained, but no farther; and that as some heat must escape in its course through a length of pipe, it is proper, in conveying it, to cover the pipes with the worst conductors that can be procm-ed, to prevent its condensation. It is obvious, therefore, that as long as steam can be kept from condensing, it possesses the temperatiu-e of 212° and, of course, has heat enough to effect whatever process of cookery boiling water can. 4728. Steam is applied in cooking in a great variety of ways. The food is put into vessels kept full of steam, in which they are subjected to the same degree of heat exactly as in boiling water ; or water itself is made to boil by means of steam, either by bringing it by a pipe into the water, or, which is much better, by causing the steam to surround a vessel full of water, as is shown above. One of the simplest methods of employing steam is the following. 4729. Saucepans and boilers are made, with anoilier vessel called a steamer on the top. The bottom of the steamer is perforated with numerous holes to admit of the entrance of the steam from the water boiled in the saucepan beneath. This arrangement is exceed- ingly convenient and economical, since one article of food may be boiled in the saucepan, and another may be cooked by the steam in the upper vessel, without any additional expense of fire. Vegetables are often so prepared, and, if it is found useful, any number of steamers may be placed over each other on the same saucepan, each steamer having a perforated bottom, a, Jig. 677., represents a saucepan with a steamer of tin ; b, Jig. 678. is a cast-iron saucepan with a tin steamer. F/i;. G77. Fig. fi78. Fig. 6: i-Vfl. 67!) 9. represents one of Count Rumford's kitchen-boilers with its steamer, of which thousands were formerly made in Loudon, and which were put up in the Royal Institution and are described in his "Essays." a is a section of the boiler with its steam rim set in brickwork, and heated by its own little fire; b is the steamer placed over the sides, fitting into the rim of the I boiler. The sides of this steamer " are of double tin, the better to con- I fine the heat, the outside being cy- lindrical, but the inside slightly conical. The conical cover fits into the steam rim of the steamer. This steam apparatus is very per- fect for the purpose for which it is intended, but is now no longer made. Steam was much employed by Count Rumford for cooking for public establishments on a great scale with a view to economy ; and we may here describe an ingenious contrivance of his for preventing the .steam from escaping from the large boxes of wood lined with tin in which potatoes .and other things were cooked, a, Jig. G80. is a portion of the wooden cover of these ■steam vessels, and i is a projecting tongue on the under side all round, that shuts down into a cavity caused by bending the tin of the vessel into this shape. The consequence' of this IS, that this cavity is always full of water occasioned by some of the steam con- Idensing ; and as the tongue b comes down into this water, no steam can escape out of the vessel without first di.'iilacing this water, wliich steam of the ordinary strength cannot do Wessels, therefore, made with these sleani rims are steam-tight, that is, do not throw out .any steam into the apartment. It must be very easily seen how useful such a steam run would be in every brewing and washing copper, as well as vessels for cookin" by steam ; yet this excellent conlrivauce appears to be forgotten already 3 II