Chap. I. APPARATUS FOR DISTILLATION. 1047 Fig. 799. Fig. 800. They have tlie advantage of being cheap, and may be procured of the oilmen. The •woodcut, Jig. 799., represents boiling in a ilask placed upon a stand made of thick wire. These flasks, -when got from the oilmen, are ge- nerally oily. They may be cleawed by putting a little alkali in the ■water to wash them; but it is better to pour in a little strong nitric acid, or some oil of vitriol, and then heating them over a lamp ; after that everything will come away, on washing with water. 6228. In preparing distilled waters, or in distilling liqueurs, if the copper body of the still holds two quarts, it will be easy to draw off a gallon of liqueur at each distillation. To obtain the spirit in its utmost purity, the process of distillation must be conducted slowly and carefully, and the vapour that is raised condensed effectually. For this purpose the refrigeratory or worm-tub should be supplied with cold water as fast as it becomes warm, and in winter ice may be used instead of water. If the heat applied is violent, the vapour will rise so fast as to blow off the head of the still, or the charge in the cop- per will boil over, pass into the worm, and spoil the process; also, by using too great a heat, the materials may be burnt, and acquire an empyreumatic taste. 6229. In many cases of distillation, therefore, such as the preparation of essential oils or the finer kinds of ardent spirits, &c., where an excess of heat might injure materially the products, instead of applying the fire directly to the vessel containing the substances to be distilled, these are placed in another vessel having in it some fluid or powder, through which the heat is communicated in a more gradual and uniform manner. 6230. Tlie water bath, or halneim maria:,fg. 800., is a very ancient apparatus, which is used where the heat required does not exceed that of boiling water, a is a vessel half filled with water: another vessel, b, containing the substances to be heated, is placed in the water. As the fire is applied only to the outside vessel, the materials in the inner one can never be heated more than 212°, the heat of boiling water; and the heat will always be equal so long as the water boils ; therefore there can be no burning to, as is often experienced when there is only one vessel, and that exposed to the open fire. In the woodcut the inner vessel is supposed to contain some substance merely to be heated by this method ; but if distillation is to be conducted in this manner, then the body of the still is to be immersed in the water. The water-bath has another convenience, besides equalising and limiting the tempera- ture ; it affords the facility of applying any required degree of heat below 212° to a sub- stance in an operation ; for it is only necessary to raise the temperature of the water to tliat degree, which may be ascertained by plunging a thermometer into it, and then immersing the vessel containing the substance into the water ; and this degree of accuracy Qpuld not be attained in any other way. If it were required to know at what degree wax or any resin melted, the substance might be put into a thin glass tube, and the tube into 1 the water of the bath, then raising the temperature of the water till the wax melted, the I temperature might be ascertained by the thermometer. 62.31. A temporary waler-butli may even be made by a tin saucepan ; but it is necessary I to observe that the interior vessel should not touch the bottom of the exterior one, for it ■will then get heat from the fire, and be raised above tliat of the water. Should this be I used for distilling with a retort, the neck may be supported by passing through a hole in . a wooden cover to the saucepan. A Florence oil flask very well cleaned may sometimes be used instead of a retort, if a Ibent neck be cemented to it. If it should be desirable to have the heat of the water-bath 'Somewhat greater than 212°, that may bo effected by using a saturated solution of salt in I water, which will bear to be heated to 238°; oil, or mercury, or melted metals, will give much higher degrees of heat: but these are seldom used. 6232. The sand-hulh is an analogous metliod of preventing the effects of a violent and unequal heat upon the still. Sand is put into a flat iron vessel, fiy. 801., and the fire applied below to heat Iho sand; and the retort or still is placed in the sand in the same manner as in the water in the last method. The sand-bath differs fron\ the water- bath in this respect, that the heat may be raised Fig. 801. considerably above the temperature of boiling ■water. It is generally set in brickvirork, and the t fire is made to circulate backwards and fiirwards imder the iron plate. 3X4