JEWELLERY. Book XXL 1062 bility with water, by the intervention of certain intermedia, volatility In the heat of boiling water, &c., it Is obvious that they may be variously mixeil with eacli other, or the dearer sophisticated with the cheaper, without tlie possibility of discovering the fraud by any ordinary trials. And, indeed, it would be of more advantage to the purchaser if he had infallible criteria for the discovery of the goodmss of the manufacture than of the genuineness of each oil ; for genuine oils, from inattention in distillation, or long and careless keeping, and other causes, are often weaker, both in smell and taste, than the common sophisticated ones. The smell and taste seem to he the only certain tests of which the nature of the thing will admit. Most of the volatile oils, indeed, are too hot and pungent to be tasted with safety ; .md the smell of tlie subject is so much concentrated iu them, that a small variation in this respect is not easily distinguished, but wc can readily dilute them to any degree. A drop of the oil may be dissolved in spirits of wine, or received in a bit of sugar, and dissolved by that intermedium in water. The quantity of liquor which it impregnates with its flavour, or the degree of flavour which it communicates to a certain determinate quantity, will Ije the measure of the degree of goodness of the oil. 6360. Some consider the specific gravity of essential oils as a certain criterion of their genuineness. This, however, is not to be absolutely depended upon ; for the genuine oils, obtained from the same subjects, often differ in gravity as much as those drawn from diflerent ones. Cinnamon and cloves, whose oils usually sink in water, yield, if slowly and carefully distilled, oils of great fragrancy, which are specifically lighter than the water employed in their distillation ; whilst, on the other hand, the last runnings of some of the lighter oils prove sometimes so ponderous as to sink in water. Some plants and barks yield both a light and a heavy oil. BOOK XXL JEWELLERY. GENERAL EEMAKKS. 6361. Jewels comprehend all those ornaments of dress in •whicli the precious gems form a principal part. Some of these constitute very expensive, although, on frequent occa- sions, indispensable articles of dress; the nature and distinctive qualities of the gems should therefore be well understood. 6362. The business of the jeweller is in strictness distinct from that of the goldsmith ; the latter, -working only in gold, does not employ any precious stones, -whereas the jeweller employs gold merely to hold, or set, as it is called, the several gems. The je-weller, however, does not cut the gems ; he procures them, ready cut, from the diamond cutter and the lapidary, and his business is merely to group and set them. 6363. Great care should be taken in the purchase of jewels; and in particular to ascer- tain that the several stones are genuine, or are really what they are called. Some precious stones are easily known, but others are extremely difficult to be distinguished; and though it may appear extraordinary, yet it is a fact, that many jewellers in England, particularly the working jewellers, are but indiiferently acquainted with several of the stones they have to make use of, sometimes deceiving their customers through their own want of knowledge. At the same time it is also true, that some of them, possessing the requisite information, employ it to practise fraud, by changing the colour of stones by heat, by putting foil behind one kind of stone to make it pass for another, and by similar tricks. One caution we may give. Paste, a kind of coloured glass, is sometimes sold for the gems they imitate; but this may easily be detected, for glass may be scratched by a good file, whereas none of the gems can. 6364. To determine accurately the species of precious stone when there is any doubt, the specific gravity sometimes offers a guide, as almost every one has its particular weight; but this requires a delicate hydrostatic balance, and an acquaintance with its use, as well as the proper weight of stones. As an example; if a stone of a fine crimson red is called an oriental ruby, the purchaser must ascertain whether it be not a Siberian tourmaline, or ruby spinelle, which are of inferior value. For this purpose, the stone must be unset Suppose its weight in air to be 100 grains, and he finds it reduced to 69 grains when weighed in water. Now, a real sapphire of the kind called oriental ruby, which weighs 100 grains in air, would have weighed 76-6 in water ; a spinelle ruby of 100 grains would have weighed 72-2 in water; and a Siberian tourmaline would weigh only 69 grains in water. From this, therefore, it appears, that the stone oflfered as an oriental ruby is only a red or Siberian tourmaline. 636.'). The cutting of gems into the usual shapes, and the polishing of them, is per formed by the lapidary, "who employs diamond powder for this purpose, as the hardest thing known. In slitting stones, the diamond powder is used with a fine wire coated with it, and which acts like a kind of saw; in grinding down surfaces, the diamond powder is put upon a wheel of soft metal, in which it is imbedded. 6360. Flaws in rough nnwromjht stones may be made more perceptible than when