135 ' CUAP. III. CANDLES. K 4 depth running round the top, to prevent the accident of its boiling over, which would be dangerous from its catching fire. Being melted and skimmed, a certain quantity of water is thrown in, proportioned to that of the tallow, for the purpose of precipitating to the bottom the impurities that escaped the skimmer. The tallow, however, intended for the first three dips must have no water; because water imbibed by the dry wick would make the candles spit and crackle in the burning. The tallow thus prepared, may be used after it has stood three hours. It is then I drawn ofi' through a sieve into a vat, or cistern, supported upon a stand, having a small I fire beneath to keep it melted. The workman next takes two or three broaches with wicks, ; and immerses them carefully in the tallow, holding them over the vessel to drain, and 1 hangs them on a rack till the tallow gets hard. They are then dipped a second time, 1 hung up again; and the same a thu'd time, repeating the operation till the candles are of I the required thickness. During the process, the vat must be supplied with fresh tallow kept ; at the proper temperature. When the candles are finished, their peaked ends or bottoms are I taken off; not with a cutting instrument, but by passing them over a flat brazen plate heated to a proper pitch by a fire underneath, which melts down as much as is requisite. In manufactories, where candles are made on a large scale, they have a contrivance by which a great number of broaches are lowered at once into the tallow, and raised again. If the wicks of candles are badly made, and contain loose projecting threads, the candles will be liable to have wasters, will gutter, and the light will be variable and unsteady. Waxing the wicks is sometimes used as an improvement, and the light is thus more equal and steady : it costs a little more ; the wick is thus necessarily thinner, and the candles scarcely give so good a light as the common dipped candles if well made. They are how- ever more elegant, and approach nearer to a wax candle. ScBSECT. 2.—Mould Candles. Fig. 100. 624. Mouldcandles are made thus:—The moulds are cylinders of pewter having the inside diameter the size of the candles required ; and one end, that on which the candle is to be lighted, is contracted into the form of a cone, c, fig. 100., having an aperture only large enough to admit the wick. The cotton wick, properly prepared, is then passed into the mould, and a piece of stiff wire is used to assist in getting it through. The wick is doubled, and in the loop there is run a small piece of wood, d, which is laid across the open end of the mould. By pulling the wick tight at the conical end, it may be adjusted, so as to be placed exactly in the centre of the mould: and still holding the wick tight, a peg is driven into the middle of it, at the conical aperture, to secure it in its place, and stop up the bottom of the mould. When the wicks are exactly adjusted, the moulds are placed in the frame, e, and the melted tallow is poured into them, and allowed to get quite cold and hard: as the tallow gets cold, it shrinks, and leaves a hollow at the top of the mould, which requires filling up with more melted tallow. The pegs at the bottom are now taken out, and the candles are drawn from the moulds. If they do not draw readily, plunge the mould for an instant into hot water, and the can- dles will come out easily. Some bleach or whiten their candles, by hanging them out in the dew, or earliest rays of the sun, for eight or ten days, care being taken to screen them in the daytime from tlie heat, and in the night from rain, by waxed cloths. Upon the whole, many persons find it less trouble to make mould than dipped candles. 62.5. Tallow candks, when well made, of good tidlow, resist decomposition for a long time, and will keep for two years. When laid up for store, they should be preserved from the atmosphere ; and it is found a good practice to keep them covered up with bran. liight turns them yellow, though it whitens wax. The store-room should be cool, and free from damp, as this mildews them, and causes them to gutter. They are better for being kept for six or eight months. Rush-lights are made in the same way as dipped candles, only having the pith of a rush for a wick instead of cotton ; they require no snufling, as the burnt wick falls off as the tallow consumes : hence they are used to burn all night in bed chambers. Very small cotton wicks will answer the purpose, and are less liable to go out, owing to the smallness of the wick causing it to bend as in a wax candle.