Book VII. 478 ON FOOD. 2579. The botanical name (^Cuciirbita) is derived ftorn the resemblance which many species bear to certain vessels employed by chemists. In various parts of the world the shell is converted into bowls and other domestic utensils for holding water. The bottle gourd has a long neck and capacious ball, like a flagon. 2580. Vegetable marrow (C. ovifera). — This is a variety of gourd, which has been lately introduced into Britain, and is already cultivated to a considerable extent. It appears to have been brought to us from Persia by one of our East India ships. In shape it nearly re- sembles the cucumber, but is yellow when ripe, and attains the length of about nine inches. When young, it is excellent fried in butter ; when half grown it may be dressed in several ways, and has a peculiarly soft and rich flavour. It is also dressed plain boiled, and eaten with butter, or stewed in slices with rich sauce: and it is made into pies. The tender tops may be used as substitutes for greens. SuBSECT. 3.—Angelica (^Archangelica, Linn.). 2581. This herb is sometimes found native in Scotland, but is more abundant in the most northern parts of Europe, as Lapland and Iceland. The whole plant is powerfully aromatic. The seeds are employed to flavour ardent spirits or the choicest liquors; and in Sweden, Norway, and Lapland, the leaf stalks are peeled and eaten raw as a great delicacy, or boiled with meat and fish. In England and France they are candied by the confectioner. The root, as well as the leaves and seeds, are employed for medicinal purposes, and in Lapland is chewed like tobacco. SuBSECT. 4.—Anise and Cummin (Pimpinella anisum. Linn.). 2582. The seeds of the anise, which is a native of Egypt, have been long used in this country, in confectionery and for distillation ; they are imported from China, and Alicant, in Spain. Anise is sometimes cultivated in our gardens, and its leaves are used like fennel, as a garnish and for seasoning. 2583. Cummin {Cuvminus, Linn.). The seeds are used in the north of Europe as a warm and stimulating spice in ragouts and other dishes, and are also put into liquors. StrnsECT. 5. — Coriander (^Coriandrum sativum, Linn.). 2584. This plant, of eastern origin, has been long cultivated in England for its seeds, which are highly aromatic, and form one of the less agreeable spices : they are employed by the distiller in flavouring spirits, by the confectioner for incrusting with sugar, and by the druggist in medicine. Its tender leaves are also sometimes used in soups and salads, and in Peru the seeds are employed in great excess to season their food. SoBSECT. 6.—Carraway (_Carum carisi, Linn.). 2585. The carraway is a native of this country, and is found growing in meadows. It is likewise cultivated for its seeds, large quantities of which are produced in Essex. The seeds have a pleasant aromatic odour, and a sweetish, warm, pungent taste, depending upon an essential oil, which is easily extracted by rectified spirit, and partly so by water. They are employed in confectionery in cakes, biscuits, &c.; in medicine, as a carminative, and for flavouring spirituous liquors; and the young leaves are sometimes used in soups: formerly the roots were eaten as parsneps, and by some are thought to be not inferior. SuBSECT. 7.—Rue and Hyssop (^Ituta graveolens, Linn.). 2586. Rue is a hardy evergreen shrub, cultivated time out of mind in our gardens, but supposed to be originally a native of the south of Europe. It has a strong ungrateful odour, and a bitter, hot, and penetrating taste. It is employed only for its medicinal qualities. . , . 2587. Hyssop (Hyssopus officinalis. Linn.).—This, like the last, is only used m medicme ; the leaves and young shoots rarely as a pot herb. SuBSECT. 8. — Camomile (Anthetnis 7)obilis, Linn.). 2588. This very useful, and generally used, aromatic bitter grows wild in England. It is cultivated on account of its flowers, an infusion of which forms an excellent stomachic, known by the name of camomile tea. Thougli the double sort is most raised by gardeners, the single is the best and strongest as a medicine. The flowers are kept dried in bags. The active principle of camomile is a resinous substance called pipcnna, discovered by Dr. A. T. Thomson.