974 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. feet; this last is found only in tropical countries. The Linnscan name of this genus of plants is Gossypium, and it belongs to the natural order of Malvaceaj or Mallows. The leaves of the herbaceous varieties, -which are the most common, much resemble those of the vine, but are smaller. The blossoms expand into a pale yel- low flower {fig. 785.), which changes to red, and then to brown. When the cotton-plant has arrived at maturity, and the flower falls off, a capsular pod appears, ap- proaching the triangular shape, with a pointed end, and supported by three triangular leaves. It increases to tlie size of a large filbert, and becomes brown as it ripens. The expansion of the wool causes the pod to burst in two or three gaping segments, when it discloses a ball of downy cotton, of a white or pale yellow colour, consisting of three locks, which are contained in as many cells in the pod. This wool incloses and adheres firmly to the seeds, which in form resemble those of grapes, but are larger. 5740. The natural colour of cotton is white, or cream- coloured, iron yellow, or tawnj'. The filaments vary in length from half an inch to one inch and three-quar- ters, according to the variety of the plant, tapering to a fine point at the ends, and are about the two thousandth part of an inch in diameter ; they are pretty uniform in the same crop. They are sufliciently long and tenacious to bear twisting into an extremelj' fine thread; and, of all the materials for this purpose, they are the easiest twisted : under proper cultivation, cotton may be raised in such abundance as to form the cheapest ma- terial for clothing. When examined by the microscope, the fibres appear to be flattened cylinders, and rather two-edged or triangular, and not to be straight but contorted,—a structure which causes the fibres slightly to adhere together, and thus give warmth to cotton clothing. 5741. The cotton-plant requires great care in its cultivation, as it is delicate and easily in- jured ; but it does not demand a rich soil. It is produced from seeds, which are sown rather thick, and the plants are thinned as they grow up, and transplanted at proper distances. The plough is used in some countries, and a good crop produces thii'teen pounds of cotton per acre. In eveiy country cotton grows best near to the sea. In India, the best cotton is not far from the coast ; when tried at Benares, four himdred miles inland, it failed. The finest cotton of America is from the sea-coast. In some places the plant is an annual; in others it is perennial; the difference of longevity being partly owing to climate, and partly to husbandry. Some shrubs will thrive for eight or ten years, and some of the finest cotton of India grows on trees which rise to the height of fifteen or twenty feet. Sect. III. PREPAEATION OF COTTON WOOL FOR THE MANUFACTURER. 5742. The operation of gathering the ripe cotton detnands great care : as aU the pods do not get ripe at once, the people must go through the plantation, and select such only as have been opened a few days. Fine weather is chosen for this purpose, because wet would cause the cotton to become mouldy, and to prevent which, it is thoroughly dried in the sun. 5743. As the downy fibre adheres to the seeds, to detach it from the latter is a work of some difficulty, and must be performed before the cotton is packed. A man with his hands only could not clean more than a pound in a day ; therefore all nations, who have advanced from barbarism, use some kind of machinery for the purpose. In India, a rude hand-mill, or pair of wooden fluted rollers, is employed, by which from forty to sixty-five pounds per day may be cleaned. In other countries w-ooden rollers of a somewhat similar construction are employed, but they are moved by machinery instead of the hand. The cotton wool is then carefully sorted and freed from any imperfect parts, or particles of dirt; after which, it is well dried, put into bags, and pressed into bales in a small compass, for the greater convenience of transportation. It is brought to the mills in Britain in bags weighing from 330 lbs. to 350 lbs., just as it is packed up, and is then stowed in warehouses, being arranged according to the countries from which it may have come. From the very great pressure to which it has been subjected in packing, it is found to be in hard matted lumps ; and it also still contains some seeds and dirt. It is, therefore, put into a machine called a willoio, which, by its revolving spikes, tears open the cotton, and by the blast of a powerful fan, or blowing machine, frees it from most of its seeds and other impurities. It is next taken to the scutchitjg mach'me, by which it is more com- pletely opened and cleaned, being beaten with metallic blades revolving on an axis; in this way all the fibres are opened, and the seeds and dirt fall down through a frame of