Book IV. ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. 1.36 Sect. IV. COMPOSITION CANDLES. 626. Composition candles are a kind lately introduced, and whicli originated chiefly in consequence of the researches made about twenty-five years ago by the French chemists, Chevreuil and Bracconnot, respecting the nature of tallow and other fatty substances. Tallow was formerly regarded simply as fat, or a uniform and solid oil : but it has been shown (as we stated already) to consist of two substances ; a solid fat, -(vhieh is called stearine, from the Greek word for suet; and a liquid fat, named elaine, from the Greek word for oil, the former being in the largest proportion, 627. Stearine is the chief ingredient in suet, lard, and butter, and is the cause of their solidity ; whereas oils contain a much larger proportion of elaine, and hence they are fluid. These two principles may be easily separated from each other, and a simple ex- periment will exhibit the truth of this statement. If fat be exposed to a considerable degree of cold, and then pressed between some folds of unsized paper, the latter will absorb the elaine, and the stearine will remain. Having thus collected a quantity, press the paper under water, and the elaine will float on the surface as an oil. The stearine, by proper management, from its beautiful colour and consistence, was found to be a very elegant material, and better adapted for making candles than tallow. The elaine is admirably suited for oiling the wheels of watches, or other delicate machinery, since it does not thicken or become rancid by exposure to the air, and requires a cold of 20° Fah, to freeze it. But, notwithstanding the superiority of stearine to tallow for making candles, the expense of separating it by mechanical means alone was found to be too considerable. 628. Li 1825, M. Gay Lussac, a French chemist, look out a patent in England for an improvement in candles from the above principle, combined with the following. ^Vlien tallow is mixed with an alkali, as potash, soda, or lime, it is saponified, or made to form soaps; and when by the action of an acid, such as the sulphuric or muriatic, these new combinations are decomposed, the fats re-appear in the altered form of stearic, margaiic, and oleic acids ; the first being harder than tallow, and of a texture resembling sperma- ceti, the latter being fluid like oil. By certain chemical management, and the action of a powerful press. Gay Lussac was enabled to separate the oleic acid from the stearic and margaric; and the two latter were found to be an admirable material for candles, which were accordingly made and known by the name of stearine candles, the only objection to which was their expense, though less than wax. Another advantage in these candles was, that by making the cotton wick hollow, the cuiTent of air ascending them caused the wick to be consumed without the necessity of snuffing. 629. To diminish the expense of the stearine candles, other manufacturers employed lime as an alkali, instead of the potash or soda used by Gay Lussac, by which stearic acid is procured, but not in a state quite so fit for candles. Accordingly some process to harden it had been employed by them, and candles made of stearine and certain other ingi-edients with which the public was not well acquainted, have been in use for several years. 630. Fortunately, however, of late, a discovery has been made by Mr. Everitt, that arsenic had been employed in the manufacture of some of the candles Known by the name of " composition ;" and this subject has been investigated by the Medico-botanical Society. They have proved, by experiments, the highly deleterious nature of the arsenical vapours which are given off by the combustion of such candles, and put the public upon its guard against their use. Considering how generally the poisonous nature of arsenic is known, it seems difficult to imagine how any manufacturer could venture upon such a practice, the danger of which required so little chemical knowledge to perceive, were it not certain, that the art of adulteration regards not the destruction of health, nor of life itself. Now, tiiat the danger of using arsenic has been so completely and publicly pointed out, it is to be hoped that no manufacturer will be so rash and unprincipled as to employ it in candles. 631. It has also been slated by Chevreuil and others, that arsenic is not necessary for the purpose to -which it was applied, and that a small quantity of wax, and some say, of mag- nesia or chalk, will answer the purpose of hardening the stearine. 632. Candles of stearine, or rather stearic acid, and a small quantity of wax, are accord- ingly made in London, and are found to bum nearly, if not quite, e(]ual to wax, though considerably cheaper. They are called in the shops stearine wax, and also ccratinc. 633. Other composition candles, some of which appear in their properties to be inter- mediate between wax and tallow, have received a variety of names by the different makers, all of which arc evidently calculated to mislead, as Gertnan wax, pearl wax, im- perial wax, Venetian, adamantine, moulded, tropical, Sfc. Of the exact composition of these