820 Book XL GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. melted fat falls, and is thus prevented from being burned; or, sometimes, an inner pan is put over the water, and receives the fat, which, in that case, will not mix with it, nor yet be burned, because the water cannot be heated higher than the boiling point, which is not enough to burn. It might be supposed that water thus placed within the roaster would have the effect of making the meat sodden, from the steam ; but Count Rumford observes that steam itself is always perfectly dry, and that it is only when beginning to be con- densed by cooling that it becomes moist: as it cannot cool inside the roaster, no such condensation can take place; and, as the dry steam will occupy the upper part of the roaster, separate from the air, it can have no eifect in rendering the meat moist. This steam, however, is ultimately carried off by the steam tube at the top of the roaster. An essential part of this machine is the contrivance by which a stream of very hot air is made to blow upon the meat, at a certain part of the process, for the pui-pose of brown- ing it, and giving it the taste peculiar to roasted meat. In the Count's first roasters this was effected by means of two tubes of iron placed a little below the bottom of the cylinder opening into the further end of it, and lying just above the fire which played upon them and heated them. At the commencement of the process of cooking meat with this appa- ratus, the outward ends of these tubes are kept closed by stoppers : but, some time before the meat is done, the stoppers are taken out, and then a strong current of air, intensely heated, in passing through them, enters into the inside of the roaster, blowing upon the meat; this air passes out through the steam tube, carrying with it all the steam and other vapour. As these tubes, being exposed to a violent fire, were apt to be destroyed in time, endeavours were made to effect the same thing by other means, which were tolerably successful. Instead of tubes lying over the fire, a portion of the cylinder was devoted to this purpose, by making a horizontal division near the bottom, and the portion of the cylinder below this served for the hot air, the front opening into this space being closed by a register. When the roasters were afterwards made square, a still simpler method was employed, which continues in use among the ironmongers. 4677. Although we have mentioned and described the proper Rumford roasters, of which we have stated that a great number were executed and put up about thirty or forty years ago, and are particularly described in the Count's " Essays," we have avoided entering into more details respecting them, because they are no longer manufactured in the original form, and therefore cannot be purchased. It would also be very diflScult now to find an ironmonger who could make one correctly, and perhaps scarcely possible to procure a bricklayer who could be depended upon to put one up without some mistake, thirty years being sufficient to deprive us of those persons who understood them in Count Rumford's time. We cannot, therefore, recommend at present the original Rumford roaster, since, though an admirable invention, yet, if executed by the present workmen, there would be a great chance of its failing from some cause or other. When the Rum- ford roasters first appeared, many doubts were entertained with respect to their efficiency. As the meat was shut up in a confined space, in an apparatus having the general appear- ance of an oven, it was natural enough for some to suspect that it was rather baked than roasted; and it may be well to mention that Dr. Kitchener, celebrated for his gastronomic acquirements, appears not to have been accurately informed on this point. In his interest- ing work, entitled the " Cook's Oracle," he observes, " the machines the economical grate-makers call roasters are, in plain English, ovens." Now, iron roasters are very different from iron ovens ; and both were made and sold by " economical grate-makers ;" but the only complete iron-roaster is that invented by Coimt Rumford, which was exe- cuted and'employed in the military academy at Munich previous to 1790. This date is mentioned here, because some persons have, very unfairly, set up a claim to the in- vention of a roaster of the same kind, although produced subsequently to the Count's first visit to England, when he placed several in public establishments in this country ; and one may be still seen, though not in use, in the kitchen of the Foundling Hospital. 4678. The difference between an oven and a roaster is tliis :— In the former the meat is shut up close during the luhole operation of baking; whereas, in the latter, the machine is kept closed for a certain time only after the commencement of the operation ; but then, a strong current of very hot air is admitted into the lower part of the apparatus, which, after traversing below and above the meat, is suffered to escape at the top, carrying with it the steam, and drying up and browning the surface of the meat, which thus does not absorb those empyreumatic particles that are produced in baking. The effect produced in a roaster is, in fact, exactly analagous to what happens in turning the meat before the fire ; for it is to be observed, that the meat, being i)laced in the roaster upon a grated slider or drawer, when this is pulled out, it can likewise be basted. Many persons, in- deed, who had used the.se machines, considered the meat dressed in them as peculiarly juicy and well-tasted. When added to this, it is considered that, instead of the large clear fire necessary for roasting a joint on a spit, two or three pounds of coal will suffice with a roaster, and that, instead of constant attendance, very little here is necessary ; that in