Chap. II. HATS, CAPS, AND OTHER COVERINGS FOR THE HEAD. 101.-5 CHAP. II. HATS, CAPS, AND OTHER COVERINGS FOR T^E HEAD. 5989. Almost infinitely diversified have been the contrivances for protecting the head from the violent effects of the sun, from wet, and from cold ; and most nations in the least removed from barbarism have adopted some dress for this purpose. This custom, however, has not been universal. It is said that the ancient Egyptians in general went without any covering on their head. Many of the celebrated warriors of antiquity appear to have foUowed the same practice. The negroes of Africa and other savage tribes go bare-headed; and this was an old Saxon fashion, the remains of which perhaps may still be seen in Christ's Hospital boys, who do not suffer from it It was an ancient maxim to " keep the head cool and the feet warm ;" and in dry and temperate climes there pro- bably would be no danger in young people going bare-headed, even if they were much in the open air; but with our artificial habits this could not be generally practised by adults. The turban is the general covering used by several Asiatic nations, and by the Turks, who came originally from Asia. It is generally composed of a number of folds of cotton or muslin cloth, and is well calculated for defence against the rays of the sun, which are often so violent there as to occasion death. It is the custom, however, in those countries to wear turbans without intermission, in the house as well as out of doors, which makes the head tender, and is unfavourable to strength. 5990. The woollen bonnet, or cap, in some form or other, was the most usual covering for the head among the European nations before the invention of hats ; and they are still much worn. One of the most simple, and perhaps oldest forms, is the common bonnet of the Scotch Highland peasants ; but it has a mean look, and its chief recommendation is its cheapness. The Highland military bonnet, sometimes ornamented with feathers, is a degree smarter. 5991. Various caps of /wr are worn in Holland, Poland, and Germany, and in other countries of Europe. Caps are also made of the skins of young lambs, the wool of which is curled by a peculiar process. 5992. Caps of leather, sometimes varnished, are in a great variety of forms, and of late years have been much worn in England by mechanics and young people. 5993. Travelling caps are made in a similar way, and are either to keep off the wet entirely, or for sleeping in, where hats would be inconvenient. These are too well known to require enumeration. 5994. Hats are not modern, as they were used by some of the ancient Greeks. They are now, and have been for many years, by far the most general article for covering the head in Europe and America, and are probably the best contrivance ; they are made of various materials, as felt, straw, chip, willow, whalebone, silk, &c. When the felting of wool and hair for hats was first invented does not appear. The Tartars employ this pro- cess of felting in making a kind of covering for their tents; and, although we do not find it mentioned among the arts of the Greeks and Romans, it was known to our Saxon ancestors, though felted hats were not common among them. They seem to have been made in Flanders earlier than in Britain, for in Chaucer's " Canterbury Tales," the mer- chant wears " on his head a Flaundrish beaver hat." 5995. A late paper in the " ArchcBologia" supplies us with the following curious information respecting hats in this country. The Chronicles of Froissart mention the hats of the time of Edward III. and Richard II., and white hats seem then to have been worn at Ghent as the badge of a political party. But they were by no means common, and were con- fined to the wealthy till the reign of Henry VIII. Stowe informs us that " the English used to ride, and go in winter and summer in knit caps, cloth hoods, and the better sort in silk-thrummed " hats. In the time of Queen Elizabeth, high crowns came in fashion, and they were often pointed and conical. At that time hats were restricted by act of parliament to the upper classes of society ; the middle and lower being confined, under a penalty, to the use of knit caps. This act, however, was soon repealed, and felt hats came into general use. In 16.38, King Charles prohibited the importation of beaver hats, and from this period may be dated the increase in the value of beaver fur. During the Commonwealth, and subsequently, broad brims were much used, and the Quaker's hat is a diminished remnant of that period. These being often inconvenient, it was the custom occasionally to turn up one or two sides, which led to the three-cocked hat in the time of Queen Anne. About 1750 round hats became very prevalent among the lower orders, and the cocked hat was the distinction of a gentleman. About 1790, cocked hats were laid aside, and ever since round hats have been tlie universal wear. The various forms of these are too well known to require enumeration ; the chief varieties are the high and low crowned. The former are to keep the head cool by the nir in the upper