972 FABRICS FOR CLOTHING AND FURNITURE. Book XVII. tiiralised in Europe. It grows about three feet high, the stem branching with alternate leaves on long foot stalks, and flowers in clusters ; male and female distinct. The coarsest canvas is used for sail cloth, for tents, and similar purposes ; and the preparation of yam from hemp is so similar to that from flax, as not to require a particular description. Some hemp is grown in Britain, but by far the largest quantity is imported from Russia and Poland. Other articles are likewise made from hemp, as a kind of huckaback, and some sorts of cloths for husbandmen and labourers ; likewise cords and ropes of various kinds. Buckram is a sort of coarse hempen cloth, woven very open, and stiffened with gum • it is used for stiffening various parts of dress. ' CHAR IV. COTTON FABRICS FOR DRESS AND FURNITURE. Sect. I. GENERAL AND HI8T0RICA1, REMARKS. 5733. Cotton, from its great abundance and comparative cheapness, as well as from the facility with which it may be wrought up by machinery, has, to a considerable extent, superseded wool, silk, and linen, as a material for many articles of dress, both useful and ornamental. The more common fabrics made of this substance have in general obtained the preference over the light worsted and linen stuffs that were formerly used for linings. Cotton cloth is found eligible both for shirtings and sheetings; fustians have been found a more durable kind of raiment than the common woollens for labourers; while muslins, having been very extensively adopted as an article of dress for ladies, have greatly di- minished the consumption of those silk and linen fabrics to which the choice of female dress was formerly limited. It may be added, that the more common manufactures of cotton, after being dyed and printed, have supplied the middle ranks with a cheaper and more elegant material, both for dresses and furniture, than were in general use in former times. 5734. The cotton manufacture in this country likewise exhibits a striking example of the advantages to be derived from the exercise of the inventive faculty. Within the memory of persons now living it has sprung up from insignificance, and has attained, in the space of forty years, to be one of the most flourishing and important branches of our national industry ; in this respect, surpassing the manufactures of wool and linen, which have ex- isted among us for centuries. But the utility of cotton fabrics is too generally understood to require any detailed eulogium; and the varieties of them will be best understood after we have described the general processes by which they are produced. 5735. The liistory of the manufacture of cotton cloth will properly precede our account of the improvements which have caused it to come so extensively into use, and will en- able us to throw light upon many circumstances respecting the varieties of the fabric that would otherwise be in some degree obscure. The earliest accounts given by historians and travellers of the intertropical countries of Asia, describe the inhabitants to have been acquainted with the fabrication of cotton cloth ; but the commencement of its use is unknown. Herodotus, who wrote 440 years before our a;ra, distinctly notices cotton fabrics as the common clothing in India ; and he observed that the material was the pro- duce of a plant. Cotton is again mentioned by Arrian, who lived in the second century, in his account of the voyage of Nearchus down the Persian Gulph; and likewise by Strabo, who speaks of flowered cottons and chintzes. Pliny describes the cotton-plant very accurately, stating it grew in Upper Egypt; yet the manufacture of it does not appear to have been practised Jjy the early Egyptians, since no cloth of this kind is found among the numerous swaddling-bands wrapped round their mummies. It is indeed a re- markable fact that the cotton manufacture remained insulated in India for many centuries, even after a considerable intercourse with the East had been established by Europeans, and notwithstanding the vicinity of Syria and Egypt to that region. The Arabian traders brought Indian cottons of various kinds, as calicoes, muslins, plain and flowered, to Aduli, a port in the Red Sea, and thence they found their way into Europe ; but they were probably extremely rare for several centuries, as well as the silks of China. At length, cottons and muslins came into general use among the Arabians and the neigh- bouring nations, and the manufacture itself was spread, through their commercial activity and enterprise, throughout the extensive territories subdued by their arms. We learn from the travels of William de Rubriquis in 1252, that cottons were then articles of trade and dress in the Crimea and Southern Russia: and Marco Polo, the Vc-