Book XXV. THE DAIRY, AND DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 1160 closely round the sides of the pan to which the cream adheres firmly, and draw it to one side! lift it off with the skimming dish, which is generally pierced with small holes, an act which requires some dexterity, both to avoid leaving any creaming behind, and to prevent any portion of the milk being mixed with it. The cream is put into the cream bowl to be carried to the cream barrel. In large dairies, the milk coolers have sometimes an aperture in the bottom stopped by a peg which is taken out when the cream has completely risen, allowing the milk to pass through, leaving the cream at the bottom, and this is then drawn up in the same manner. With respect to the thick milk from which the cream is taken, or lappered milk as it is called in some parts of the country, it is usually employed in England for feeding pigs, though in Scotland and Wales it is thought no bad food for human beings ; and it is without doubt particularly wholesome. CHAP. ni. CONSTRUCTION OF THE DAIET-HOUSE, 6876. Where one cow only is kept, a separate dairy-house can scarcely he necessary, or it may be on a very smaU scale; but where several cows are kept, and butter or cheese are to be made, this becomes essential, and we proceed to point out the principles on which it ought to be constructed. 6877. TTie spot where it should be placed must depend much on convenience and the nature of the locality, but it should not be too far from the house, nor too near the cow- yard. 6878. The temperature of the dairy should be as equal as possible at all times of the year ; that is to say, as cool as possible in summer and sufiBciently warm in winter. The building should be so placed, if possible, as to be defended from the sun's rays, which may be sometimes effected by trees; and the construction of the building should be such as to prevent as much as possible the changes in the temperature of the internal atmo- sphere from affecting that of the interior. 6879. Tlie walls may be of any convenient material. Some have been made of brick built double, or hollow in the interior ; and such walls are upon the whole the best for preventing the passage of heat through them ; but this construction may be limited to the chamber appropriated to keeping the milk. 6880. The roof has most usually been made of very thick thatch, either of straw, reeds, or fern, these being bad conductors of heat; a tiled roof is either too hot in summer or too cold in winter; but thatch is subject to early decay, besides harbouring vermin. Large strong slates are to be preferred, as being more impervious to the weather and more durable, and they require few rafters. A lath and plaster ceiling below the slates, either plain or covered, will be necessary for warmth. 6881. The floors of ordinary dairies are usually paved with brick or tiles ; but neither of these can be recommended; for they are never so level, nor the joints so close, but that the spilled millc will lodge there, creating an unpleasant odour. Brick and tile also absorb much wet, and being long in drying cause a chill in winter that gives rise to dampness and mouldiness ; large smooth slabs of paving-stone are much better. Lately slate has been satisfactorily introduced for this purpose ; it is sawed into plates three feet square and half an inch thick, at 5c?. per foot superficial, 7|<i. per J thick, and \Qd. for 1 inch thick, by North and Co., at the London Docks. The slates are laid in a bed of mortar, or what is better, having a layer of concrete four inches thick under the mortar. This slate has been found to be even stronger than stone. The floor should have a fall to a trap drain in the corner. It appears from experiments of the Bishop of LlandafiF, that slate absorbs only ^Jj part of its weight, whereas tile absorbs \, and the slate when exposed to a temperature of 60° was dry in a quarter of an hour, while the tile had not lost all its moisture in six days. For an ornamented dairy, tiles to imitate mosaic may be employed. 6882. The sides of the interior should be plastered or stuccoed ; but if they are lined for three feet above the shelves with glazed Dutch or white tiles, it will have an agree- able effect. 6883. The windows should be double, but made to open, with lattices covered with wire-gauze to prevent the entry of flies, and with double shutters of wood to guard more perfectly against severe cold in winter. 6884. The shelves may be of flag-stone, marble, wood covered with lead, or slate. The latter appears to be the best material. The proper thickness for slate shelves is one inch, which costs Is. 2d. per foot superficial, without fixing, and if polished Is. Gd. per