EARTHENWARE AND POTTERY, 289 EHAP. XV. CHAR XV. EAKTHENWARE, rNCLTJDING PORCELAIN. Sect. L historical remarks on pottery. 11277. The produce of the potter's art is the more interesting as it is evert/ day subject to our kservation. Not a day passes but we receive more or less pleasure from the neatness and wauty of those vessels from -which we take our breakfast beverage, or our evening's re- rfeshment. Vessels made of baked earth capable of holding liquids doubtless preceded ii.ose of metals; and the possession of the potter's art marks a certain advance in civilisa- mn, although we find that it existed among nations of the highest antiquity, when still I a very rude state. This invention was probably coeval with that of making bricks, hhich, we know, was practised at the building of the tower of Babel, 2200 years before the lommencement of the Christian tera. That pottery was carried to great perfection among lie ancient nations, is shown by the exquisite remains discovered in Egypt, Greece, Italj% lad other classic countries. Specimens of Mexican pottery exist, which have a consider- ible resemblance to the Egyptian. 1278. It is probable that the ancient Britons were acquainted with this art, from the vases ' i'earthenware which have been found in barrows in different parts of the kingdom. . Abundant remains of beautiful red pottery, made by the Romans, are found in the »:cinity of Bath, and other parts of England where they had settlements, as at Burslera : Staffordshire, where it appears, from fragments dug up, a Roman pottery existed; but '.does not appear that the Greeks or Romans employed a vitreous glaze, though this is nmmon in Egyptian antiquities, and had been long known to the Chinese. In later imes, earthenware with a painted glaze was largely employed by the Arabians in deco- i ting mosques and other buUdings, as well as for domestic purposes ; and the art of fabri- II ting it passed from them into Spain in the ninth century. 11279. A manufacture of beautiful compact stoneware was established at Fayenza, in Italy, oom which the French term faience seems to have come. The body of this was a red or white clay, and the glaze was opaque, being fomied of the oxides of lead and tin, along itith potash and sand. The Venetians, Genoese, and Florentines, bestowed much pains "ion this manufacture, and specimens of their early pottery are much prized by collectors: inne of it is elegant in form, and admirably painted. It is said that Raphael in his youth, well as other able artists, painted on earthenware, or at least gave designs for that mrpose; and some is still distinguished by the name of liaphael's china, which sells for vvery high price. 11280. Bernhard de Pallissy, a person of great ingenuity, about the middle of the sixteenth mtury, manufactured the first white faience at Saintes in France ; and not long after- mrds, the Dutch produced a similar article, of a substantial make, called from the place koere it was made Delft ware, but destitute of those graceful forms and paintings, for biiich the ware of Fayenza was distinguished. 11281. The Dutch probably derived their hnoioledye of this manufacture from the Venetians, It.th whom they had extensive commercial dealings : but the blue colour which they em- noyed in ornamenting it with Dutch subjects, may have been imitated from the blue and laite ware of Nankin, which they likewise imported. Delft ware is a very coarse kind {pottery- ; and, from the coarseness of its texture, the potter was obliged to make it lack, clumsy, and heavy, in order to ensure its strength and durability. The glaze was lade of common salt, sand ground fine, oxide of lead, and oxide of tin, the latter giving kacity to the glaze. It resisted the sudden application of heat, and was much employed,- wong other things, for tiles to line chimney fireplaces and stoves. EBefore the manufacture of European porcelain, a great deal of the best earthenware used ]| - this country was imported from Delft, or was made at Lambeth where some Dutchmen Jjiid settled about two hundred years ago. But the use of Delft pottery was afterwards Wpperseded by the white stone ware from Staffordshire, the latter being lighter and more Brrable. Delft ware is now made only into tiles for lining dairies and baths, pomatum Bits, a few jugs, and similar articles, and, instead of twenty manufactories of it, as foi'- Keriy, at Lambeth, it only partially employs one. iTThe vast improvement that has taken place of late in English pottery will he described llilder " English white stone wares."