Chap. III. 817 CULINARY APPARATUS. jack. The supports for the spits op, gr, st, are not attached to the range, as in smaller ranges, but are inserted in two upright standards which are fixed in masses of iron at the bottom, ?(, which can be moved farther out or nearer to the fire: the supports also,o,/), q, &c. can be raised or lowered. One end of the spit acts against an iron pin, and the other lies in a semicircular notch, v is the large dripping-pan with its ladle for basting, having a very long handle to enable the cook to baste without being exposed to so fierce a heat as proceeds from this range, which is usually quite filled with a dense fire, w is a back boiler of wrought-iron, from which a pipe, x, proceeds to carry hot water to the baths near the bed-rooms in the upper stories, the boiler being supplied with cold water by another pipe from the high-service cistern. In the range are two winders for contracting the fire, but which in this place are never used, because the fire, being constantly wanted, is kept up till the evening, when it is suffered to go down, and is then smothered with the ashes. Coke alone is the fuel employed, which makes a very bright and hot fire. In some other large ranges, as that in Buckingham Palace, which is of the same construction, coke only is employed, requiring no renewal for the whole day. 4666. More examples of kitchen ranges will be given in Chap. IV. Sect. II. APPARATUS FOK BOASTING. 4667. Roasting is probably the most ancient mode of cooking, and it was at first per- formed in the open air, by means of large fires, the waste of fuel being immense; a circumstance frequently of little consequence in countries where wood can be always had by the trouble of only gathering, and where sometimes the consumption of it is rather an advantage than inconvenience. But in colder countries where fuel is scarcer, the operation is performed in the house ; and in the oldest kitchens, from the size of the fires used in them, it would seem as if the original process had been partly imitated. 4668. " III olden time" says Aubrey, " the poor boys did turn the spits, and licked the dripping-pan, and grew to be lusty knaves." Even dogs were sometimes taught to per- form this tedious operation. Afterwards the science of mechanics was called into request, sxndi jacks were invented. At present, there are two principal kinds of these in common use, wind-up jacks and smoke-jacks. 4669. The common wind-up kitchen jack, moved by a weight, is constructed in the follow- ing manner: a, fig. 634., is a barrel, round which is coiled a line of considerable length, and having one end fastened to a compound pulley, b c, containing three or four sheeves, to which is appended a weight, which, by descending slowly, moves the barrel round with the proper velocity. This weight and pulley is usually kept outside the kitchen, the line passing through a hole in the wall. An endless chain passes round the barrel, a, and the spit, h, which last, of course, turns with the same velocity as the barrel. To render the motion equable, and to prevent the jerks that would take place should the meat not be spitted quite equally, a fly, g. is attached to the ma- chine, to effect the motion of which a wheel with teeth, o, is fixed upon the barrel, and the teeth work in a screw fixed on the upright axis of the fly. When the weight has descended as far as it can, it is again wound up by a handle placed upon the square end of the barrel spindle : but the machine should be so calculated that it should not be necessary to wind it up during one roast. The length of time it may go without winding may be increased by the system of pulleys, or by causing the weight to descend into a small well formed for it. Servants object much to the trouble of winding up this jack, little as that trouble is; and hence smoke-jacks are sug'ered to supersede them, notwithstanding their simplicity, and being less apt to be out of order. 4670. The smoke-jack, invented to obviate the trouble of winding up the common jack I moved by weights, consists of a horizontal wheel filled with spokes or radii of metal, I placed obliquely, in the same manner as the sails of a windmill or the little circular ven- itilators sometimes seen in windows, and turned, like them, by the current of air striking I upon them. This wheel is fixed in the inside of the flue, and the motion of its axis is (easily communicated to another wheel, to which is attached a chain that goes over one (fixed to the spit. A very complete smoke-jaek is represented,//,!/. 6.33. Notwithstanding that Count Huniford long ago pointed out the waste of fuel occasioned 'by the employment of this machine, it continues to be as great a favourite as ever. He j justly remarks, that, to cause the smoke-jack to go round with sufficient force to carrv 3 G ' ng. 634