ARTIFICIAL ILLUMINATION. Book IV. 158 70G. A still farther improvement in the solar lamp as applied to Argand's, has been made by Quan-ill, .^(/. 13G. By this, besides the usual de- fleeted current shown by the arrows, a second current is produced by air entering at apertures gg, which, rising within the glass chimney, keeps it cool, and pre- vents the breakage it is very liable to by great heat. He also makes this chimney conical, without the usual shoulder. 707. Various contrivances, calledoxi/dators, have been produced in consequence of perceiving the advantage of causing the external current of air to impinge upon the flame of the Argand lamp. Some of them consist of small caps of brass, with a wide hole on tlie top to admit of the flame of the lamp, similar to that of Jig. 1-33. but so that the current of air is obliged to pass upwards in close contact with the flame. Slaking the glass a little wider at bottom to admit of a flat loose ring of brass with an aperture for the flame to rest on the shoulder of the contracted part, as shown by the shaded ring in a, answered the same purpose, and has been the subject of Even so simple a contrivance as a circle of thin mica b c, fiy. 137., fixed in the a patent Fig. 137. inside of a cylindrical glass with a hole in it a little larger than the flame, has been found sufficient to destroy the smoke of a common lamp, burning common oil. But almost all these contrivances are now superseded by contracting the lower part of the glass itself, in the manner shown at e,fig. 137. which has the effect of obliging the exter- nal current of air in the Argand lamp so to impinge upon the flame, that every particle of smoke is destroyed, and coarse cheap oil can be burned. We must observe that this fonn of glass, which is certainly a very great improvement upon the former cylindrical glass of Argand's, requires very great care, otherwise they are apt to break. For common purposes, the plate of mica described above, answers very well with those who have suffi- cient ingenuity to fit them in. A circle of tin plate would do. Sect. X. keir's fountain lasip. 708. Many attempts have been made to construct lamps to stand on the table xoitli an upright stem, having the plane on the top in form of a large candlestick or candelabrum, so as to do away entirely with all shadow, or visible reservoir for the oil. The great difliculty is in the supply of the oil for a long time : in the common small candlestick lamp where the wick is supplied simply by capillary attraction, the lamp burns dim as soon as the oil falls much below the flame ; and some means are required for keeping the oil always at the same height. This is effected completely in the Argand's lamp, where the supply cistern is on one side ; but the shadow which this casts renders it unfit for the centre of a table : and, what is desirable is to have a lamp burning constantly with an equal and strong light, but without any shadow like a candle. To effect this, two methods have been resorted to. one is on a hydrostatic principle, in the manner of Iliero's fountain, where the oil is placed in the body of the stem, and is raised to the wick, as it is wanted, by the pressure of a column of some fluid. In the other method, the oil is forced by clock-work mecha- nism, as in the lamp by Carcel of Paris. The first successful attempt of this kind in England was the lamp invented by Jlr. Keir, about 40 years ago, upon a hydrostatical principle : and though it is not used at present, being superseded by contrivances of a similar kind by other manufacturers, yet it will serve to illustrate the general nature of these lamps, of which several varieties have been brought partially iuto use.