RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. Book XIII. daily, that no " fly-blow" remain long enough undisturbed to injure it. The cook will generally find fly-blows, if there be any, between the folds of the skin and fat, or in other somewhat concealed parts. If possible, the part attacked should be cut away, but if not, it must be carefully washed off, and the part well dried. Roasting beef should in the summer have a little salt sprinkled over its surface, and if a dusting of black pepper be added, the surface will be rendered too pungent to allow the meat fly to settle upon it. Mutton and veal should be taken down and wiped each day, with a clean dry kitchen cloth. Venison is always hung a length of time before it is cooked. It should be fre- quently wiped with a dry cloth, or first washed with cold milk and water, wiped perfectly dry, and dredged with powdered ginger or pepper, to prevent the fly from settling on- it; but these must be wiped off before the venison is cooked. To ascertain when it is in a condition fit to be cooked, plunge a clean knife into the fleshy part, and the smell will show the condition of the joint. 4939. Fish, when to be kept uncooked for a day or two, should be placed on the coolest spot which can be found in a cellar, or stone floored larder, or on a heap of moist sand, and turned twice a day. Ice, when it can be obtained, is perhaps the best preservative of the freshness of fish ; but on removing it, the fish must be cooked immediately, or it will be spoiled. For other particulars respecting the keeping of meat, the reader is referred to " Proserration of Food," Book X. SuBSECT. 9.—Hints respecting Dripping, Suet, §*c. 4940. Soups, sauces, gravies, and made dishes brought from table, and to be reserved for future dinners, ought to be poured out of the tureens and dishes in which they have been served into clean vessels, and immediately removed into the cool larder. Soups, broths, &c. should have all vegetables in them strained off before they are set apart in the larder ; for vegetables after they are cooked soon become acid, and then they injure the taste and quality of the soup or other dish of which they form a part. Neither soup nor anything which is to be eaten should be suffered to remain tiU cold in copper utensils, the danger of which has been already pointed out. 4941. Dripping is the fat which drops from meat while roasting. If properly managed, it may be employed in frying, in basting, or in making common pastry. In cooking poultry, game, and fish, other ingredients are usually preferred to dripping, such as butter, lard, or Florence oil ; but in many instances, especially in preparing plain family and economical dishes, beef-dripping would answer the same purpose, if cooks would only prepare it properly. As dripping is too often a cook's perquisite, her interest in this matter is opposed to that of her employers, and she is seldom disinterested enough to make the best use of it, when she is not herself to benefit by it. When, however, she is so disposed, she should, when a joint of roasting beef is done, pnur the melted fat in her dripping pan into a basin of clean cold water ; any heavy particles in the dripping will sink to the bottom of the basin, the melted fat will lloat on the surface, and when cold will form a c\ear cake of fat, free from taste, and fitted for any purpose of cooking, in which such a kind of ingredient is requisite. In a cool harder dripping so clarified will remain fit for use for nearly a fortnight. Also a little dripping may be made to go in use a good way, lor alter it has had any thing fried in it, except fish and pork, or alter it has basted veal or poultry, and has not been burnt, it may be again poured in its melted slate into cold water, and be used a second time. 4942. Be^fsurl cut into shreds, and melted in a slow oven, or in a tinned saucepan over a moderate fire, may be employed in frying when dripping is not to be had, and will save the more expensive articles of butter, lard, or oil. It must be slowly rendercil, or it may .ncquire a burnt taste ; .ind when melted, it must be passed through a sieve into cold water: when it is caked it must be put into a jar, covered slightly, and placed in a cool .spot. 4943. Top put is the skimmings of soups and gravies, and it is spoken of by French cooks .as preferable to dripping or suet, for incorporating with flour in thickenings, soups, and gravies, and some even recommend its use in frying. In using evoiy thing up, the French cooks are more economical than the English cooks. BOOK XIII. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. It is necessary to advertise the reader that in Book VII., Chap. I. II. and VII., the general nature of food and principles of nutrition have been treated of; in Chap. III. IV. V. VI. VIII. IX. and X., the various substances, both animal and vegetable, used as food have been described, and in Book X. the various methods of preserving food by salting, smoking, &c. are considered. In the following receipts for actual cookery, occasional directions for salting particular parts will be added, as well as other processes intimately connected with the methods of dressing them. In Book XI. the rationale of the several processes in cookery has been explained, and a description given of the various apparatus employed.