ON MAKING BREAD. Book IX 7G8 " No amylaceous substance," Dr. Cliristison observes, " is so much relished by infants about the time of weaning; and in them it is less apt to become sour during digestion than any other farinaceous food, even arrow-root not excepted." 4388. Arrow-root is a well-known very nutritious fecula, obtained from the roots of the Maranta arundinacca, or starch plant, a perennial cultivated in the East and West Indies. Its name is derived from another plant with which it was once confounded, now called Apinia galanga, the root of which the Indians used as an antidote to the poison of arrows. The rocfts are dug up when they are about a year old; and after being well washed, they are beaten to a pulp, which is again washed in water, to separate all the tibrous part ; after being passed through a sieve the starch is suffered to settle, when the water is drawn off. The white sediment of starch is again washed with water; and when it is di-ied by the heat of the sun it forms the pure arrow-root. The best arrow-root we have is from Antigua, Jamaica, and Bermuda; but a great deal of what is sold in London is adulterated with potato starch ; which, though a substance not very different, has not precisely the same properties. Arrow-root, like every kind of starch, boils to a jelly, but it differs from potato starch in this respect: the jelly formed with arrow-root will remain firm for three or four days without turning thin and sour, whereas the jelly from potato flour in the course of twelve hours becomes as thin as milk, and ascescent; hence it is not so well calculated for food, and particularly for children. It is, therefore, very important to have this useful article genuine when a strengthening food is required : potato flour, though inferior, may, on occasion, form a cheap substitute. 4389. Salcp is considered to be a very nutritious substance. It consists almost entirely of a peculiar vegetable principle called hassorin, with a small quantity of starch and gum. The name of bassorin is derived from gum bassora, in which Vanquelin first discovered this principle, which is likewise found in gum tragacanth. Salep is imported from the East Indies, Turkey, Syria, and Persia, where it forms a considerable part of the food of the inhabitants, boiled or in soup. It is said that an ounce a day is sufficient to sustain a man ; hence, from its portability, it is very useful to travellers over desert regions. It is prepared from the roots of different species of orchis, especially the orchis mascula, a tropical plant, though some is manufactured in Europe. The bulbous roots of these plants are deprived of their cuticle, and baked in an oven for ten or twelve minutes, which gives them a semi-transparency: they are then dried in a moderate heat. Salep is brought to this country in oval pieces, of a yellowish-white colour, somewhat clear and pellucid, very hard, and almost horny; of little or no smell, in taste like gum tragacanth. It is not easily pulverised. The powder, dissolved in water, forms a jelly. 4390. The orchis or salep plant grows plentifully wild in moist meadows in some parts of Britain and Ireland, particularly in Gloucestershire, and is also cultivated, but not to any extent. It has been proposed to make salep from it; and it is proper that it should be pointed out, as a resource to the poor in times of distress. The preparation of salep has been described in " Philosophical Transactions," vol. lix. The bulb or tuberose root is to be washed in water, and the fine brown skin which covers it is to he separated by means of a small brush, or by dipping the root in hot water, and rubbing it with a coarse linen cloth. The bulbs are then to be dried upon a tin plate, by placing it in an oven for six or ten minutes, in which time they will have lost their milk}' whiteness, and they will then become transparent, like horn. They are afterwards dried in the air, which will take several da3'S; or a gentle heat may be used, which will effect the same in a few hours. Reduced into powder, they soften and dissolve in boiling water into a kind of mucilage, which may be diluted for use with a large quantity of water or milk, and comes very near to what is made from the salep brought from Turkey. Dr. Percival, in his " Medical and Experimental Essays," mentions that a mixture of mucilage of salep with flour makes an excellent bread. 4391. Portland sago is so called from the Isle of Portland, where the substance is manufactured from the roots of the common wake robin, arum mandatum, which grows there in great abundance. These roots are full of farina ; but in their natural state they are so acrid, that if the juice be applied to the skin it will raise blisters: it appears to be very analagous to the poison of the cassava root; and, like that, is so volatile, that when heat is applied by roasting or boiling, it is dissipated, and the roots rendered perfectly harmless When, after this, they are dried and pounded, they afford a starchy matter very much resembling the Indian arrow-root; in consequence of which, it is sometimes called EnrjUsh arrow-root, 4392. Tons Ics inois is the French name for a new aliment, prepared from the pith in the roots of the canica coccinea, a plant which flowers every month, whence it lias received its appellation. It is stated by Dr. Waterton, of St. Kitt's, to differ in some respects from arrow-root, though extremely analagous to it, and applied to the same uses. It is said not to be apt to sour upon tlie stomach, and to be well calculated for invalids and children. It is imported into London, and sold in canisters at 2s. and 4s. each.