BEVERAGES USED IN THE BRITISH ISLES, Book VIII. 640 SuBSECT. II.— Cyder While Wine. SiiM Mix sixtcpti giillons of apple juice, sixteen pounds oflinney, four ounces of while tartar ; cncloso in .1 bag one ounce each ol cinnamon, cloves, and mace, and suspend it in the mixture while fermcntinK. Wlicn tlic lermentatiou is complete add one gallon of rum. ^ Sdbsect. 12. — Cowslip Wine. 3594. Boil together seven pounds of moist sugar, two gallons .md a half of water, and two ounces of hops Pare the rinds of eight lemons or .Seville oranges, or a part of each ; pour the boiling liquor over thcra ■ when this is cool, squeeze the juice over it, and add this to tlie liquor. Ferment the wliule with ye.ast in the usual way, and put it into the cask. Gather cowslip flowers on a fine day, picking out can-fully all stalks and leaves. Put into the cask of wine as much of the flowers .is would be a quart, when fresli gathered, for each gallon ; stir them well till they sink. Dissolve three ounces of isinglass in a little of the wine, and return it to the rest to fine; in a few days bung it up close. In six months the wine will be fit to bottle, hut will improve by bemg kept longer ui the cask. By managing as above, the wine will be fined in the casks, and wdl be as good from the cask as if bottled, which is a great saving of trouble. The cowslip flowers may be dried and kept in bags till they are wanted, and will do as well as fresh. SuBSECT. 13. — Orange Wine. 3596. Seville oranges are used for this purpose; they are best in March. For eighteen gallons of wine, half a chest of oranges are required. Pare the rinds from about a dozen or two dozen, as more or less of the bitter will bo agreeable ; pour over this a quart or two of boiling water, and after letting this stand for twelve hours, strain off the water which extracted much of the essential oil of the oranges. T.ike the peel ofl" entirely from the remainder of the oranges, squeeze the juice through a bag or a sieve, and put it into a cask with about forty-five pounds of white sugar, or fifty-five of the best 'moist sugar. Soak the pulp in water for twenty-four liDurs, and after straining this, add it to the cask. Uepeat this several times till the cask is full ; stir the whole well with a stick till the sugar is dissolved ; then set it to ferment. The fermentation is slower than with currant wine, but may be heard hissing for several weeks ; when this sub- sides, close the bung-hole, and proceed as in the case of gooseberry wine. Some add brandy. The wine requires to be kept in the cask a year before it is bottled. SiTBSECT. 14. — Birch Wine. 359G. A wine was formerly made from the sap of the birch tree, though now it is scarcely known. The sap contains so much saccharine matter as to be fermented ; it is to be obt.iined in the month of March, when it begins to ascend, l)y boring a hole in each tree about a foot from the ground, large enough to admit a faucet, which is to bo inserted. The sap will flow for several days into a vessel placed to receive it, without injuring the tree. Having obtained as much as is proper, the hole should be stopped with a peg. To a gallon of this sap, add a quart of honey, or two pounds and a half of sugar, and boil them together, stirring the whole; add also two ounces of hops for every nine gallons, a few cloves, and a. rind or two of lemons. Ferment this with yeast, transfer it to the cask, refine it with isinglass, and proceed as in the other cases. In about two months the wine may be bottled, and in two months more it will be fit for use. It will improve by keeping. Birch ii'ine has been made from an open grove of about 100 bt'rch trees^ near Overton Hatty for sixty or seventy years past. Thirty trees or more are tapped in a season, about six or eight inches above the ground, to March. A piece of bark about three quarters of an inch in diameter is cut out with a gouge, and the wood penetrated an inch or more; an iron spout is then driven into the bark below the hole, which conducts the s.ap to a bottle. In warm weather the holes soon grow up, and will cease to run in four or five days ; but in windy weather tliey will run for a month. Some trees will run twenty-four gallons in twenty-four hours; others not half a pint. The juice is sold at sixpence a gallon to those who make small wine as a substitute for small beer. If the juice is scalded, but not boiled, it may be kept a month before it is made into wine ; if not. it will not keep above a day or two. For making wine, two pounds of coarse sugar, and a quarter of a pound of Malaga raisins, are added to every gallon of birch juice when cold; it is then boiled for an hour, until it is observed to grow clearer, when it is set to cool; and when about the same heat that beer is set to work, a toast of bread, spread with yeast, is put into it, and for four days suffered to work freely, when it is barrelled; and the same quantity of raisins as before, and about an ounce of isinglass to every twenty gallons, is added. It seldom works out of the barrel, and in two or three weeks is ready for close bunging down, to remain for three months, when it should be bottled off, and in two or three weeks after it is fit for drinking, but is better for being kept longer—Loudon^s EncyclopcBiiia of Agriculture. 3597. The sap of the birch is convertible into wine, vinegar, and spirit, and from it sugar may be obtained. From a large tree tapped in the spring several gallons of saccharine sap may be drawn daily without obvious iujury to the plant, which forms, when fresh, an agreeable beverage, and, when fermented, an intoxicating liquor.—5M)"»ett'i Botany. SuBSECT. 15. — Ginger Wine. 3598. Dissolve eighteen or twenty pounds of sugar in nine and a h.ilf gallons of boiling water, and add to it ten or twelve ounces of bruised ginger root. Boil the mixture for about a quarter of an hour, and. when nearly cold, add to it half a pint of yeast, .and pour it into a cask to ferment, taking care to fill the cask from time to time with the surplus of the liquor made for that purpose. When the fermentation ceases, rack off the wine, and bottle it when transparent. It is a common pr.actice to boil the outer rind of a few lemons together with the ginger destined for the wine, to impart to the wine the flavour of lemon peel. SuBSECT. 16 Rhubarb Wine. .3,599. The Ieaf-st.ilks of the giant rhubarb, cut into pieces as if for tarts, and bruised with n wooden mallet to express the juice, will make a delicious wme, quite equal to green gooseberry, and very closely resembling Champagne Gardener's Magaxinc. , SuBSECT. 17. — Wine made from mixed Fruits. 3C00. Take cherries, black currants, white currants, and r.ispberrics, of each an equal quantity, though, if the black currants predominate, the better. To four pounds of the mixed fruit, well bruised, put one gallon of water; let it steep three days and nights in an open vessel, frcquentlv stirring up the mass ; then stir it through a hair sieve ; put both liquids together, ,ind in each g.allon of the liquid put three pounds of sugar. Let the whole stand again three ifays and three nights, frequently stirring it up as before, after skunnnng off the top ; then turn it into a cask, and lot it remain at the bung-hole, whilst fcrmcntmg, about two weeks. Lastly, to every nine gallons put one quart of good brandy, and then fasten down the bung; if it docs not soon become Hne, a solution of isinglass may be stirred into the wine—Papers qf the Bath Society, vol. xi.