486 Book VII, ON FOOD. 2658. The fruits which we propose to describe we shall divide with Mr. Loudon, into 1. Kernel fruits, or pomes : those having the seeds inclosed in membranous cells, including the apple, pear, qiiince, and medlar. These are also called fleshy fruits. 2. Stone fruits : having the seeds inclosed in hard nuts covered with flesh, or a sarcocarp, as the peach, nectarine, almond, apricot, plum, cherry, and olive. ' 3. Pulp;/fruits: having the seeds lying among the pulp, as the pine-apple, grape, melon, and cucumber, fig, and tamarind. 4. The orange tribe: this contains a well-known group, the sweet orange, the bitter orange, lemon, citron, and shaddock. 5. Berries : a smaller kind of pulpy fruits, as the gooseberry, currant, raspberry, straw- berry, mulberry, elderberry, barberry, whortleberry, cranberry, blaeberry, blackberry, dewberry, juniper berry, and service berry. 6. Exotic fruits: occasionally imported, or but little known in England, as the pomegra- nate, plantain, banana, mango, mangostan, aker, bread-fruit, durion, guava, litchi, jujube, juvia, alligator, or avocado pear, anchovy pear, custard apple, and papaw. 2659. No class of substances employed as food varies more in their dietetic qualities than fruits, which, though extremely salubrious when used judiciously, are frequently in- jurious, particularly to the invalid. It is essential, in order to have a just view of this subject, to discriminate accurately between different species, the state of ripeness, the time and circumstances under which fruit is eaten, as well as the constitution of the con- sumer. There are three modes in which fruits may be used as food ; in a crude state, dried, or prepared by the art of cookery. A very great change takes place af they advance towards maturity from the unripe state. In the latter, in general, acids and astringent matter abound, which is often converted into sugar, when they ripen ; hence the injurious properties of many unripe fruits which are perfectly wholesome when ripe. Similar changes in their constituent principles frequently take place during the operation of cooking ; as, for instance, a portion of the acid of apples becomes sugar ; and in general, numerous fruits, very indigestible in their raw state, when boiled, roasted, or stewed, form excellent food. The acid of unripe fruits is usually objectionable, but that of fruits in their ripQ state is often cooling and salutary, when sufficiently diluted. Those which, when ripe, have about an equal mixture of acid and sugar, as the strawberry, raspberry, grape, and orange, are particularly agreeable and wholesome in the warm part of the year, when they are in the most perfect condition. Of our natural fruits, the cherry and the nut tribe are the least wholesome. 2660. The drying of some fruits, as raisins, not only enables the inhabitants of cold countries, through the medium of commerce, to enjoy a species of food which their climate has not permitted them to cultivate; but by this process, the watery and acid juices being in a great measure dissipated, they become less disposed to ferment in the stomach, and are in general safer than in a crude state. 2661. With respect to the chemical analysis of fruits, the small progress that has been made in the very difficult branch of vegetable chemistry precludes the possibility of giving the composition of all of them, very few having been subjected to rigid investi- gation. Many of them contain peculiar principles, and in general their composition is complicated. The usual principles in fruits are, water, sugar, bitartrate of potash and of lime, malic acid, acetic acid, citric acid, binoxalate of potash, vegetable mucilage or extractive matter, tannin, the principle of flavour, and the colouring principle. The sugar of fruits is generally of the uncrystallisable kinds. The acids are chiefly the malic, acetic, and citric. In a few these are found free, but are most frequently combined with lime or potash. Malic acid is found in apples, currants, gooseberries, strawberries, raspberries, elderberries, and plums. Several acids are frequently found in one fruit. Sect. II. KERNEL FRUITS. 2662. These, called also pomes, from the Latin word signifying apple, have a pulp rather firm, so as to be termed fleshy by botanists, and they have their seeds not loose in the pulp, nor inclosed in a hard sheU, but contained in cells formed of tough membranes. SuBSECT. 1. — Apple QPyrus malus. Linn.). 2663. No fruit in Britain is so abundant, and so generally useful, as the apple, and none can be broiight to such high perfection with so little trouble. It is employed at the dessert, in the kitchen, and for making cyder. It is important from its hardiness and excellent flavour ; and it has this strilcing advantage over all our other fruits, that it remains longest in season, and may be preserved with ease through the winter; whereas our stone fruits can only be kept in their natural state for a few days, and require extraordinary means to preserve them.