Chap. VI. 1085 WASHING, DRYING, IRONING, ETC. is the nature of all woollen textures to shrink considerably if put into hot water, from their property of felting, as explained under " Woollen Manufactures;" and it is there- fore a good practice to shrink the flannel before it is made up into any article of dress, by soaking it in water very warm, otherwise, perhaps, it will be found too little after wash- ing. Cold water shrinks woollen less than hot; but it is not always sufficient to remove the dirt: the water must generally be lukewarm: 85° is about the right temperature. All flannels will continue to shrink by washing in a small degree ; but the Welsh flannel least. Soda should not be used for flannels or blankets : for farther directions respecting the latter, see " Scouring." Flannels should be well rinsed after washing, for any soap left in them will injure the texture. 6487. Coloured silk handkerchiefs require peculiar care, and are generally the worse for washing. India handkerchiefs wash best. Soda should not be used : and they should be washed with soap as expeditiously as possible in cold soft water, and perhaps after- wards in a lather only lukewarm, and irdmediately rinsed and dried, as remaining long in the soap injures the coloui-s. Such as are soiled by snuff require soaking over night. 6488. It is not usual to wash silk dresses: these are generally sent to the scourer's or dyer's ; or they are turned, where economy is consulted. Nevertheless they may be washed by using a particular method. To succeed, it is best to take the dress to pieces, or at least in gi'eat part, where there are many folds. The silk should then be laid upon a smooth board, and rubbed one way, a portion at a time, with a piece of flannel well soaped, with lukewarm water. When the dirt is removed, a sponge well wetted in cold water must be used to remove the soap. One side being done, the other must be treated in the same manner, taking special care to leave no soap on the silk. After this washing it is not to be wrung, but simply hvmg up to dry in the shade in the air, or on a horse within doors, for the sun will injure the colour. Some finish it by sponging it with gin ; but whiskey or spirits of wine are preferable, as the sugar in gin will render it clammy. Silk ribands may be cleaned by the above process. Silk stockings may be washed with soap, then laid smooth, and dried by rubbing them with flannel. If they are ironed, the iron should not be very hot, and a fold of blanket should be interposed. Some prefer mangling. 6489. Blonde and lace are among the most difficult things to wash. This, however, may be efiected by winding it round a glass bottle in a single fold, then covering this with two or three folds of muslin. Soak this in clean strong soap-suds, and rub and press it through the muslin till the dirt is removed. Rinse it well without taking it ofi', and apply to it a weak solution of gimi Arabic in water to stiffen it. Dry it nearly by applying to it clean cloths ;• and, as it is unrolled, finish by ironing, or glazing with a glass bottle. If the articles are too large for a bottle, a smooth cylinder of hard wood may be used. 5490. All articles that are very dirty, such as kitchen cloths, dusters, &c., should be washed by themselves, otherwise they become a dye for the rest, which are thus infallibly spoiled. To free them from grease, they should be well soaped and soaked over night. To save soap in such cases, where that is expensive, a soapy liquid or ley may be made in the following manner to soak them. Mix potash or soda and quicldime with water, and let the mixture stand till it becomes clear; then pour the clear part off into a vessel, and keep it for use. When the liquid is wanted to be used, add to it a thirtieth or fortieth part of oil, and shake them together: a milky compound will be formed, which is liquid soap. This may be put into the water in which the things are soaked, and will answer the same purpose as soap. Care must be taken not to put too'much oil, otherwise it will not all mix, but some will float upon the surface. The difficulty in using leys of this or any other kind is from the excoriating effect which they have upon the hands when too strong: the use of the oil is to prevent this. For an utensil for washing very dirty cloths, see Chap. VII. " Construction of the Wash-house and Laundry," &c. Sect. II. DRYING. 6491. It is not sufficient that linen is well washed, if it he not likewise dried in the best manner, since the whiteness and good appearance depends much upon this. The smoke of towns is evidently injurious, from the particles of dust and soot which fall and attach themselves ; hence the best laundresses generally reside in the outskirts of towns, to have the advantage of drying as much as possible in the open air, by which they also save some expense in fuel. In treating " On Bleaching," Book XVII. Chap. X., we explained the effect which the sun, air, and water had in destroying colours ; hence we may easily understand the use of drying white linen or cottons out of doors; and why exposure for some time to the rays of the sun, and occasionally sprinkling water on white linen hung out to dry, has a powerful effect in whitening it. This method, indeed, is often resorted to when linen has