1229 INFORMATION IN CASE OF SICKNESS. Chap. IV. person; hardly any kind of exercise by itself can be considered as doing this ; even walking, which is on the whole the best, exercises the legs much more than the arms, and with walking it is necessary to combine some plan which may call into play the muscles of the arms and of the chest : the legs of the professional pedesti'ian are often beautifully developed, while his arms appear as if made for another person : the arms of the black- smith, again, are those of a powerful athletic man, while his legs are comparatively small and feeble. Therefore walking by itself, although extremely useful, does not answer to the definition of complete exercise, unless it be combined with the use of the dumb-bells, or with some plan which enlarges the chest, and calls into action the muscles of the upper half of the body. 7238. Boating and rowing again exercise the chest and arms more than other parts, and in moderation, and combined with walking, no exercise is better than rowing; but if too much indulged in, it is apt to supersede walking, and then the arms are immoderately used ; and from the constant movement of the chest, the heart is made to beat stronger than it should, becomes over-nourished, and at length enlarged, and then perhaps diseased in other ways. 7239. Horse exercise is very good, and in some particular cases remarkably useful, but like every single form of exercise it is too partial in its operation, calling into play only a few comparatively of the muscles in the body ; it should consequently be com- bined with -walking, the use of the dumb-bells, &c. 7240. Carriage e.x.grcise is useful chiefly by the fresh air, change of scene, &c., which accompany it. Among other exercises, particularly in those predisposed to any diseases of the chest, reading aloud is one of the best that can be taken ; it calls into play many muscles, and causes a more rapid transmission of the blood through the Imigs. 7241. To sum up what we have said in a few words, exercise must be composite; walking must be combined with other forms ; horse exercise must not alone be depended on ; one set of muscles must not be exercised to the exclusion of other sets. 7242. With regard to the degree and extent of exercise, this must be left to the discre- tion of each individual. We may make this remark, that great exercise must not be taken suddenly, that is to say, a person who for some months has not been able to exercise regularl)', must not attempt at once to return to the same degree he used before the disuse; lie must regain the standard gradually. Excess of exercise is indeed very hurtful; many diseases, particularly of the lungs and heart, are brought on by it; the violent rowing, which is practised at some of our Universities, has in several instances been attended ■with very disastrous consequences. CHAP. IV. USEFUL INFORMATION IN CASK OF SICKNESS IN THE ""l-AmLY. 7243. Under this head we propose fiist to describe some slight disorders, which are usually curable without medical aid ; secondly, to enumerate the circumstances which would lead us to apprehend the approach of certain severe diseases; thirdly, to notice the chief accidents which may occur iu a family ; and fourthly, to detail the management of the sick-room during the prevalence of certain severe affections. Sect. I. SUOHT DISORDEUS USUALLY CUUABLE WITHOUT MEDICAL AID. SuBSECT. 1.— Common Cold, Cough. 7244. A cold heyins with a little chilliness, and feeling of illness, followed by slight pains in the back of the head, down the neck, or in the back ; there is often headache ; the nostrils seem dry and stuffed ; there is frequent sneezing, and soon afterwards dis- charges from the nose and eyes. Such an attack is often called " a cold in the head ;" after remaining at a height for two or three days, or longer in some individuals, these symptoms gradually subside, leaving behind them a little hacking cough with slight expectoration, which continues for two or three weeks. Treatment of a cold. — Almost every one possesses some way of curing his own cold. In most eases.it is advisable to keep within doors, to take care of draughts, and to leave oif animal food for two or three days; the feet may be bathed in warm water, and a pill