207 iChap. III. ON THE MATERIALS EMPLOYED IN FURNITURE. l is perfectly safe. One of the most valuable uses to -which this metal is applied is the nraanufacture of spoons, which are not only brighter and better looking than pewter, but l less apt to bend. There are various qualities of Britannia metal, arising from the intro- Iduction of lead into some of it. The principal seat of this manufacture is at Sheffield. 958. Bidder;/ ware is made in India, and receives its name from the place of its rmanufacture. Biddery, a large city about sixty miles north-west from Hyderabad. IWhen its metallic colour is brought out, it resembles pewter or zinc. Dr. Hayne iinforms us that it is composed of 16 oz. of copper, 4 oz. of lead, and 2 oz. of tin: these jare melted together, and to every 3 oz. of the alloy, 16 oz. of spelter is added. The [people of the east prefer making it black, and inlaying it with silver with great labour: I the colour is given by dipping the articles into a solution of sal-ammoniac, saltpetre, com- imon salt, and blue vitriol. 959. Speculum metal consists of 32 parts copper, 15 tin, 1 brass, 1 silver, and 1 aarsenic. 960. Type metal: lead hardened by antimony, with some copper and brass. 961. Hard solder consists of 2 pounds copper, and 1 pound tin. 962. Soft solder : two-thirds tin and one-third lead. Sect. XVII. SUBSTANCES FOB SCOURING AND POLISHING. Few things in domestic economy are less understood than these operations, although so I much practised. 963. To remove dirt or discoloration of any kind from the surfaces of various utensils or I other articles of furniture, and to restore the polish they have lost, demands an intimate 1 knowledge of the nature of the materials to be operated upon, as well as of those which : are employed in effecting the change : otherwise infinite damage may be done that ( cannot be remedied. With respect to metallic vessels, it is necessary to know whether • they consist only of one metal in the solid, or whether that seen on the outside is merely s superficial, as is the case of tinned copper and iron, silver plate, and gilt articles, which 1 may be entirely destroyed by the same process that might be safely used for solid copper, i iron, silver or gold. In many cases the dirt is to be removed from culinary vessels by • some substance that will soften or dissolve it, as soaking in cold or hot water: or if oily I or greasy, by the use of alkali, or other means sufficiently well knovrn in the scullery. . But when recourse must be had to materials that act only mechanically, by grinding or ' wearing away what is to be removed, attention must be paid to the natm-e of the mecha- 1 nical process, to prevent errors and misconceptions. It is necessary first to observe that I no surface, however smooth, is absolutely so. The difference between a surface which is 1 level or flat but rough, and one that is smooth and polished, consists only in the mag- 1 nitude of the inequalities with which they are both covered. When these are visible to I the eye, the surface is called rough ; but when the inequalities are so minute that none I can be seen by the naked eye, we say that it is smooth; and when they are still smaller, ) so as to be perfectly invisible with a magnifier, and to reflect most of the light in one I direction, we say that the surface is polished. 964. In the commencement of the process of polishing any substance, they begin by grind- i ing down the surface so as to reduce it to a level, by means of some coarse sandstone or 1 cuttmg powder like sand, or emery and water. When the surface is rendered flat, it will 1 be seen covered with an infinity of deep scratches in all directions, made by the powder I employed. A continuance of grinding with the same substance would not make the ■ surface any smoother, and therefore a new material for grinding, the particles of which : are smaUer, is now necessary. This wears down the surface still further ; the former r scratches are all obliterated, but the surface is equally covered with scratches, only they ; are all of a smaller character. As finer and finer powders are employed, so the scratches ■ will be diminished in magnitude, though not in number, untd at last by employing an .extremely fine polishing powder, the greatest diminution in the size of the scratches, and 1 consequently the highest degree of polish, is obtained. 965 This being Ike true nature of polishing, it may be readily seen how very essential I It is that the nature of all polishing substances should be well understood, in order to < determine which ought to be employed in each particular case, that the process may be . effected in the best manner. For example, let us consider the method of polishing any 1 pieces of metal. At first the surface must be got perfectly level, and tolerably smooth 1 by rolling, hammering, or other mechanical process. Next it must be rubbed with a ■ coarse powder, consisting of hard particles, as sand, or coarse emery, which will scratch ; It all over, and reduce the general surface to an accurate level. By using finer sand or [finer emery, the size of the scratches will be reduced. After that another powder m'ust tbe employed, still finer, perhaps washed emery; and next tripoli, or rotten stone which