FURNITURE OF THE KITCHEN, ETC. Chap. IV. 843 of the large cottage chimneys, and the seat formed a chest for containing household articles ; drawers may be substituted as more convenient. 4764. Forms, Jig. 712., are the simplest and cheapest kind of seat for a number of persons; and when covered with baize or carpeting are often made to accommodate in assembly rooms, &c. They may be quickly got up on occasion. Fig. 713. 4765. Wooden stools. Jig. 713., are frequently useful for many purposes in the kitchen. 4766. Kitchen knives, forks, and spoons are well known. There are various knives peculiar to the cook sold at the ironmongers'. Spoons for stirring should be of wood ; as those of metal, by wearing, leave some of their substance in the food, which, though small in quantity, is best avoided. Forks and spoons for mixing salad ought particulai-ly to be of wood ; these the French are very skilful in making. 4767. TJie earthenware dishes and plates required by various families are so well known to housekeepers, that it is unnecessary to describe them in detail, particularly as they ai'e varying in fashion continually. We refer the reader to the Section on Earthenware for a general account of the manufacture. 4678. Sinks belong properly to the scullery and wash-house, but in small kitchens are frequently placed there also, or in the back kitchen. Their use is to wash dishes in, or other articles, and likewise to receive and convey away the dirty water. They are best hollowed out of a single piece of stone, 714., but are likewise made of wood lined •with lead or zinc. It should be placed, if possible, in a good light; should be supplied by a cock with cold, and, if there is convenience, also with hot water. The waste pipe should pass below into a drain, and there should be there a bell stench-trap to prevent any bad smell rising. There should likewise be a sink in the butler's pantry, which might be in the corner,^!/. 715.; also one in the servants' hall; and if this were furnished with a stop- cock and plug in the bottom, it might serve occasionally for washing hands or anything else.