1019 Chap. III. SHOES AND BOOTS. or the body supported by the muscles of the calf of the leg, rests for the time on the fore part of the foot and toes There is at tliat time a bending of the foot in a certain degree : but where strong wooden sl\ocs are used or any shoe so stiff that it will not yield and allow this bending of the foot, the heel is not raised at all until'the whole boot rises with it, so that the muscles of the calf are scarcely used, and, m consequence, soon dwindle in size, and almost disappear. Many of the English farm servants wear heavy stiff shoes, and in London may be constantly seen as the drivers of country waggons, with fine robust body and arms, but witli legs which .ire fleshless .md spindles, producing a gait most awltward and unm.anly. 1 he brothers of these men otherwise employed, are not so misshapen ; and even they themselves, when they choose to become soldiers and are trained in military exercises, lose their peculiarity. What a pity that, for the sake of a trifling saving cr-iceful nature should be so deformed. An example of an opposite kind is seen in Paris, where as the streets have no side pavements, and the ladies are obliged consequently to walk almost con- stantly on tiptoe, the great .notion of the muscles of the calf has given a conformation of the leg and foot, to match which the Parisian belles proudly challenge all the world —not aware, probably, that it is a defect of their city to which the boasted peculiarity is mainly due." It may be observed also that dancers have always large calves to their legs. ... ... ^, i »u 60'0 A machine was invented by Mr. Brunei for making shoes by uniting the soles to the upper leathers by mrans of rivets instead of sewing. The leather is likewise cut out by stamps, and the whole of the process beinf effected by mechanism, very strong shoes .are made with great expedition. The army is supplied from a manufactory in which the only workmen employed are the invalid soldiers of Chelsea Hospital. 60''1 The sedentary posture in which shoemakers generally work being very unhealthy, several inventions have been m.ade for enabling them to follow their trade in a standing position, and are described in the " Transactions of the Society of Arts." 6022. Among the varieties of shoes we may enumerate. Gentlemen's dress shoes, made of Gentlemen's strong walking Ladies' double and single soled Spanish leather — light walking — kid, Spanish, and patent _ pumps — shooting leather _ dancing — Bluchers — satin — prunella. 6023. Boots are not modeiii. They -were worn in the Roman army both by cavalry aud infantry. They have undergone as much change of fashion as any other part of dress. The varieties at present in use are— Top or jockey boots, used for riding ; Wellington boots, which come up nearly to the knee, without tops; Hiilf or Hessian, now little used; Military boots; Fishing boots, waterproof, or of India rubber ; Hunting boots ; Bluchers, only come over the ankle; Oxonian, differ from the last in being tied at the side ; Dress boot shoe, for dinner but not ball room dress — useful for saving time in dressing. 6024. Shoes and boots made completely waterproof are useful for occasional shooting or fishing, but are "unwholesome for common wear, from their confining the insensible per- spiration. Leather, when made in the most perfect manner, is impermeable to water under ordinary circimistances, but does not prevent the passage of the perspirable matter. Various preparations have been made to brush over leather and render it waterproof; these are generally composed of mixtures of oU, turpentine, rosin, and wax; in short, any bituminous, resinous, or adhesive matter, that will resist acids, alkalies and water, and will unite with drying oUs, provided, when mixed in proper proportions, they do not render the leather hard, or make it crack, or otherwise disagreeable. A few receipts for this purpose may be given. 1. Take six gallons of linseed oil, one pound and a half of resin, and four pounds and a half of red litharge, or any other substance known as dryers ; boil them together till they acquire sufficient consistence to adhere to the fingers, and draw out into strings when cooled upon a piece of glass. It is then to be removed from the fire, and when suOiciently cool, it is to be thinned to about the consistence of sweet oil by adding spirits of turpentine to it, which will generally require about six gallons. It is then left to settle for a day or two, after which it is to be carefully poured off from the grounds ; about one pound and a half of ivory or lamp black, and some prussian blue ground in linseed oil, is added and intimately mixed with it. To apply this varnish, lay it on with a brush until it lies upon the surface of the leather with an even gloss ; then hang up the article operated upon until the next day, when the application may be repeated, and each successive day as often as is necessary. 2. In six ounces of oil of turpentine dissolve, by gentle heat, three drachms of India rubber, and mix this with eight ounces of linseed oil. Apply it as above. 3. Melt in an earthen vessel, over a slow fire, half a pint of drying oil (boiled linseed oil); one ounce of bees'-wax ; one ounce of oil of turpentine ; and half an ounce of Burgundy pitch, or rosin. \i new boots or shoes arc saturated with this composition, and left to hang in a warm place for a week or ten days, they will be impervious to wet, and likewise soft and pliable. This composition is used by the fishermen of New Eng- land. Effectually to prevent the wet from coming through the soles of shoes, some have put a sheet of some impermeable substance between the two soles. Thin sheet copper has been employed, but that is not sufficiently pliable; oilskin, or a thin sheet of India rubber, will answer. Cork soles put inside boots or shoes are very useful. 6025. Goloshes are a kind of wide shoe to put on over the foot of shoos or boots, and they are generally made waterproof. They are now made very perfect of India rubber. 6026. Clogs are easier to walk in than pattens, but they throw up more dirt. They consist of a thick sole of wood or leather, worn over the ordinary boots or shoes. Jointed French clogs combine both patten and clog, having the cleanness of the one and the firmness of the other, with flexibility.