334 Book XI. GENERAL ARRANGEMENT OF A KITCHEN. Although direct steam may be employed very advantageously for cooking meat, fish, and vegetables on many occasions, yet we have the authority of some of the best cooks, such as those at Buckingham Palace, the Albion Tavern, City Club, &c., for saying that neither meat nor fish are so well cooked in steam as in boiling water. The juices of the meat are too much drawn out, and fish is rendered less firm than by boiling : hams form an exception. Nevertheless, although this may be admitted to be the fact, still the difl:er- ence is not so great that we should object to the use of steam when economy or great convenience recommends it. In the case of steaming joints of meat, although much of the rich gravy is forced out of the meat, yet it is all preserved in the dish below, and may be returned upon the meat, or served up with it. Fig. 681. represents the section of a kettle made by Mr. Evans, Fish Street Hill, in which fish, potatoes, and their sauces may be cooked by the steam of a boiler at the side of the kitchen range. This kettle fit.« on the oval opening on the top of the range boiler at a, the dots showing the holes which admit of the steam. In this kettle is put an oval plate on which the fish is laid ; and over that is a similar plate for the potatoes, both of which are lifted out by Dent wires for handles. In the lid of the kettle are openings in which are fitted small tin dishes with covers for melted butter, sauces, &c. It is evident that this principle may be modified in numerous ways, of which this specimen may serve suflSciently as an example. 4730. Meat and _fish may be boiled in water by means of steam with gi'eat advantage, by the method which is prac- tised at the Albion Tavern, London, and other places, and which has been already .described in fig. 676., namely, by admitting the steam between the double sides and bottom of the vessel, which boils the water in the inner one ; and it is really beautiful to see a great number of tin vessels constructed in that manner boiling various kinds of meat and vegetables, and standing in a line on a long wooden table close to the wall, at a distance from the fire, the water being kept boiling by means of a pipe full of steam from the range boiler. 4731. Meat am! vrgetablcs mm/ be cooked merely by their own Juices, without the addition of any steam or water. To effect this, two vessels must be provided,yjg. 682. ; the larger one to hold water, and the inner one, of course less, to hold the meat to be cooked. Both must have covers of the ordin.iry kind. The inner one must be supported upon a trivet to keep it a few inches from the bottom of the outer vessel. Water must be put into the outer vessel so as to rise a few inches above the bottom of the inner one. The whole is to be placed over a fire, or stove, or on a hot plate to boil. When the water in the outer vessel boils, the heat will be communicated to the meat; but the heat in the inner vessel will never be quite equal to 212°, that of boiling water ; consequently the meat will take one-third, or perhaps one-half, more time to cook than if it were in steam or water ; but on account of the slowness of the process, it will be the more tender. A shallow tin pan, with a few bars across the top, should be put in for the meat to lie on, and to collect the rich gravy that runs from it. Eggs can never be rendered hard in this apparatus ; though kept in half an hour the white becomes only of the consistence of a jelly. It is evident that this is really a balneum maria; with a cover. FiE.m. j==^ 47-.2. An apparatus for cooking potatoes without water has been some time sold in the shops,./fg. GS3. This consists of a saucepan of sheet iron, to stand the fire on which it is put. Within is a false perfomted bottom to hang in an inch from the bottom of the pan. On this upper bottom the potatoes are laid, and the he.nt and vapour raised from themselves is sufficient to cook them when the cover is put on. It is evident that if a very little water be put in, the potatoes will be dressed in the steam. This apparatus costs about six shillings, and is found to answer perfectly. 4733. Fig. 684. represents the arrangement of a steam apparatus, placed in a recess in the wall in the kitchen of the City Club-house, London, a and c are vessels containing water boiled by steam by means of the sides and bottom being double, the steam being introduced between them, as described above, b is a larger receptacle kept full of steam ; in the cover are four circular airertures, in which smaller vessels, having the bottom and sides perforated with numerous holes to admit the steam to the potatoes dressed in them. d is another vessel kept full of steam only, for cooking hams, c is a section of the vessels a and c ; / is one of the small circular vessels in h with the holes. The several vessels are supplied with steam from a large steam boiler placed in the scullery, which likewise furnishes steam to various hot closets. It is more convenient to have the boiling and steaming vessels distinct, than to have one placed upon the other, as is sometimes the case, an arrangement only desirable when there is little room.