CUAV. I. RECEIPTS FOR ENGLISH COOKERY. 899 SuBSECT. 5.—Fish Soups. 5124. Stock for Jish soup. — Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels ; clean them well and cut them into pieces ; cover them with water and season them with pepper, mace, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celerj', two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover them close, stew for an hour and half, and then strain it off for use. If for brown fish, first fi'y the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. 5125. Eel soitp. — Take a couple of middling-sized onions, cut them in half, and cross the knife over them two or three times; put two ounces of butter into a stew-pan, put in the onions, and stir them about till they are lightly browned; cut into pieces three pounds of unskinned eels, put them into your stew-pan and shake them over the fire for five minutes ; then add three quarts of boiling water, and when they come to a boil take the scum off; then put in a quarter of an ounce of the green leaves (not dried) of winter savoury, the same of lemon thyme, and twice the quantity of parsley, two drachms of allspice, the same of black pepper ; cover it close, then let it boil gently for two hours, strain it off, and skim it clean. To thicken it put three ounces of butter into a stew-pan; when it is melted stir in as much flour as will make it of a thick paste, and add the liquor by degrees ; let it simmer for ten minutes, and pass it through a sieve ; put your soup on in a clean stew-pan, and have ready some little square pieces of fish fried of a nice light brown, either eels, soles, plaice, or skate will do. The fried fish should be added about ten minutes before the soup is served ; forcemeat balls are sometimes added. 5I2C. Lobster soup Boil three fine young hen lobsters ; when cold split the tails, take out the meat, crack the claws, and cut the meat into smalt pieces ; take out the coral and soft parts of the body ; bruise part of the coral in a mortar with part of the meat from the chines, and with this make forcemeat balls, seasoned with mace or nutmeg, anchovy, grated lemon-peel, and cayenne; pound these with the yolk of an egg. Have three quarts of veal stock, bruise the small legs and chine, .and put them into the stock to boil for twenty minutes ; then strain it, and to thicken it take the fresh coral .ind bruise it and put it into a mortar with a littlo butter .and flour ; rub it through a sieve, and put it to the soup with the meat of the lobsters and the remain- ing coral. Let it simmer very gently for ten minutes ; do not let it boil, or its fine red colour will immediately fade. Pour it into a tureen ; add the juice of a lemon and a little anchovy. 5127. Ci aiifls/i soup Put six whitings and one eel and a thornb.ack into cold water, .and set them on the fire ; as the scum rises in boiling it must be carefully removed. An onion, carrot, and some parsley, together with a few peppercorns, must be added. Then remove the shells of fifty crayfish, and add tlicm to the soup, together with the small claws and shells finely pounded. Boil the whole an hour ; then strain oil' the soup, and put in some pounded crusts of bread, and then sprinkle over the spawn of a lobster 5128. Prawn suup is mailo in the same w.ay. 5129. Common Jisli soups Excellent fish soups may be made of the skull of cod, skate, or flounders, boiled in no more water than will cover them, and the liquor thick(;ned with oatmeal. 5130. Turtle soujr. — The head of the turtle should be cut off the evening previous to the day on which the soup is to be made, and the turtle hung up by the fins with the neck downwards. In the morning cut off the fore fins, and the callipee all round ; re- move the entrails and carefully detach the gall; then cut off the hind fins, and separate all the meat from the bones, both callipee and callipash, and cut it into pieces. Scald these all together, taking care the scales do not set. When cleaned, chop the fins into pieces four inches long, and put them with the other pieces and bones into a pot with sufiicient water to cover them ; throw in a bimch of sweet herbs and some whole onions, and when the liquor boils take off all scum and froth. AVhen these are nearly done, take them out and detach the bones from the fins; strain the liquor, and reduce it by boiling to about one third of its original quantity. Divide the meat into pieces of a convenient size for the mouth ; put them into a pot, with some parsley, thyme, savoury, knotted marjoram, basil, and green onions, chopped fine together, with some pounded spices, consisting of clove, black pepper, mace, allspice, and salt. Pour over them the reduced liquor, and some good veal stock; let it boil very gently till three parts done, and clear it free from the herbs. Let the liquor be strained through a tamis, and thickened with flour and butter (passed), and add a bottle of Madeira wine. Set it on the fire to boil, add the meat, and lastly put in the juice of five or six lemons, and a seasoning of cayenne pepper and salt. When served, put in forcemeat balls previously prepared, together with some of the real green fat, divided in moderate portions. In countries where turtle is abundant and cheap, the broth in which it is prepared is made of the turtle only, whereby the flavour is much improved. Sect. V. GRAVIES. 5131. Beef gravy. — In plain family cooking, stock or consomme is seldom in daily request, and consequently small quantities of gravy arc made as occasion demands. Gravy as well as soup is an extract of the soluble and nutritious juices of meat, united in certain proportions to those of vegetables, which are in fact the flavouring ingredients. Let the proportion of beef to water be a pound to a pint; pepper and flour the meat, •put it into a well-tinned pan, in which a small lump of butter has been previously melted. Set the stew-pan uncovered over a clear fire, until the meat becomes brown ; remove it to .SMS