VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOjv^, il THUEY MAGHIPICEKTT WORK.—"LIVES OP THE SAINTS." Enriched with Fifty-one exquisite Full-page Miniatures, in gold and colours. Every page of the Text within Engraved Borders of Beautiful Design. In tliick 4to, sumptuously printed, and bound in silk velvet, enriched with gold, preserved in a case, £j J3.; in morocco, extra gilt, inlaid, £io 153. ^ THIS VERY IMPORTANT WORK, commenced three years since, has at length been com/pleted, and fulhj justifies the high expectations formed of it during its progress through the press. Taking the text of the Rev. Alban Butler as his guide, the Editor has, wherever practicable, carefully verified the references of that eminent divine. The delicacy and finish of the beautiful miniatures have never before been approached in any similar work in this country. They exhibit a beauty and exquisite softness of colour which have hitherto only been realised by the most expensive miniature paintings. The work must be seen to be appreciated, as it is like no other of the kind. The preparation has been so costly and sloiv that the book is never likely to decrease in value. A VERY SPLENDID VOLUME.—SAINT URSULA, PRINCESS OF BRITAIN, AND HER COMPANIONS. With Twenty-five Full-page 4to Illuminated Miniatures from the Pictures of Cologne, and exquisitely designed Woodcut Borders. In crown 4to, beautifully bound in silk and gold, £3 15s. *** The finest Book-Paintings of the kind ever published. The artist obtained the Gold Prize at the Paris Exposition. THE BOOK MUST BE SEEN TO BE APPRECIATED. The illustrations are exact reproductions of the exquisite paintings of the Van Eyck school, and in finish and beauty a/re far above any similar hook-paintings issued in this country. As the preparation of the ivork has been so costly and slow it is never likely to decrease in value. Exquisite Miniatures and Illuminations.—"Golden Yerses from the New Testament," with 50 Illuminations and Minia- tures from celebrated Missals and Books of Hours of 14th and 15th centuries in gold and colours. The text very beautifully printed in letters of gold on fine ivory paper. 4to, in a very handsome cloth case with silk ribbons, 30s.; or bound in a volume, morocco, gilt edges, £2 5s. Common Prayer. Illustrated by Holbein and Albert Durer. With Wood Engravings of the Dance of Death, a singularly curious series after Holbein, with Scriptural Quotations and Proverbs in the Margin. 8vo, exquisitely printed on tinted paper, 8s. 6d.; in dark morocco, Elizabethan style, gilt edges, i6s. 6d. Apply DIRECT for this exquisite volume. Brunet's Manual du Libraire. 5 vols, royal 8vo, half morocco, top edge gilt, 25s. only. 1 John Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W, •