VERY IMPOUTANT NEW BOOKS. John Camden HotteUj 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W. UNIFORM WITH MB. RUSKIN'S EDITION OF " GERM Alt ^ POPULAR STORIES." Hew Book of Delightful Tales.—" Family Fairy Tales or, Glimpses of Elfland at Heatherston Hall." Edited by Cholmon- DELEY Pennell, Author of " Puck on Pegasus," &c., adorned with beautiful pictures of "My Lord Lion," "King Uggermugger," and other great folks. Handsomely printed on toned paper, in cloth, green and gold, price 4s. 6d. plain, 5s. 6d. coloured. *** This charming volume has been universally praised by the critical press. The Rosierucians; their Elites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire- and Serpent-Worshippera^ and Explana- tions of the Mystic Symbols represented in the Monuments and Talismans of the Primeval Philosophers. By Hargrave Jennings. ICS. 6d. A volume of startling facts and opinions wpon this very mysterious suhject, illustrated hy nearly 300 engravings. " Curious as many of Mr. Hotten's works have been, the volume now under notice is, among them all, perhaps the most remarkable. The work purports to describe the Rites and Mysteries of the Rosicruci»ins. It dilates on the ancient Fire and Serpent Worshippers. The author has certainly devoted an enormous amount of labour to these memorials of the KOSE-CKOSS—otherwise the Kosicrucians."—The Sum, 21st March, 1870. Gustave Bore's Favourite Pencil Sketches.—His- torical Cartoons; or, Rough Peucillings of the World's History from the First to the Nineteenth Century. By Gustave Dore. With admirable letterpress descriptions by Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Oblong 4to, handsome table book, 7s. 6d. *** a new book of daring and inimitable designs, which will excite considerable attention, and doubtless command a wide circulation. Captain Castagnette. His Surprising, almost Incre- dible Adventures. 4to, with Gustave Core's Illustrations, is. 9d. (sells at 5s.) Direct application must he made to Mr. Hotten for this hook. Cent, per Cent. A Story written upon a Bill Stamp. By Blanchard Jerrold. With numerous coloured illustrations in the style of the late Mr. Leech's charming designs, price 7s. 6d. *** A story of The Vampires of London," as they were pithily termed in a recent notorious case, and one of undoubted interest.