VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. John Camden HoUeuM 74 and 75, Piccadillyf W, MOST AMUSING NEW BOOK. Caricature History of the Georges (House of Hanover). Very entertaining book of 640 pages, with 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures. By T. Weight, F.S.A. 7a. 6d. *#* Companion Volume to "History of Signboards." Reviewed m almost every English journal with highest approbation. **A8et of caricatures such as we hare in Mr. Wright's volume brings the surface of the age before us with a vividness that no prose writer, even of tlie highest power, could emulate. MacanUiy's most brilliant sentence is weak by the side of the little woodcut from Gilhay wich give*' ns £iu°k.e and Fox."—Saturday lieciew. *' A more amusing work of its kind never issued from the press."—ilr« Journal **This is one of the most agreeable and interesting books of the season."—Pub/ic Opinitn. "It seems superfluous to say that this is an entertaining book. It is indeed one of the mosi. •nteitaining books we have read for a long time. It is history teacliing by caricature. There is oardly an event of note, hardly a personage of mark, hardly a social whinisey worth a moment'* potiee, which is not satirised and illustrated in tliese pages. We have here the caricaturists from Hogarth to GiUray, and from Gillray to Cruikshank."—^orniTis' Star. **It is emphatically one of the liveliest of books, as also one of the most interesting. It has th» twofold merit of being at once amusing and edifying. The 600 odd pages which make up the goodly volume are douhly enhanced by some 400 illustrations, of which a dozen are full-page engravings."—Mornins Post. "Mr. Thomas Wright is so pipe a scholar, and is so rich in historical reminiscences, that he cannot fail to make an interesting book on any subject he undertakes to illustrate. He has achieved A success on the present occasion.**— notice.—-Large-paper Edition. 4to, only 100 printcd,^ on extra fine paper, wide margins for the lovers of choice books, with extra Portraits, half-morocco (a capital book to illustrate), 30s. Romance of the I&cd: an Anecdotal History of tlio Birch in Ancient and Modem Times. With some quaint illustrations. Crown 8vo, handsomely printed. [hi prejparatioTio.