VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. JoTin Camden HotteUf 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W. Popular Shilling Books of Humour. Artemus Ward : His Book. Artemus Ward Among the Mormons. BiGLow Papers. Orpheus C. Kerr Papers. Josh Billings. Hood's Vere Vereker. Holmes* Wit and Humoue, Never Caught. Chips from a Rough Log. Mr. Sprouts: His Opinions. Yankee Drolleries. Edited by George Augustus Sala, Containing Artemua Ward; Biglow Papers; Orpheus C. Kerr; Major Jack Downing; and Nasby Papers. One of the cheapest books ever published. New Edition, on toned paper, cloth extra, 700 pages, 33.6d. Orpheus C- ISerr Papers. Tlie Original American Edition, Three Series, complete. 3 vols. 8vo, cloth j sells at £1 2s. 6d., now specially offered at 15s. *** A most mirth-provoking work. It was first introduced into this country by the Engh'sli officers who were quartered during the late war on the Canadian frontier. They found it one of the drollest pieces of composition they had ever met with, and go brought copies over for the delectation of their friends. A Keepsake for Smokers. —" The Smoker's Text- Book." By J. Hamer, F.R.S.L. This day, exquisitely printed from •* silver-faced" type, cloth, very neat, gilt edges, 2s. 6d., post free. THE TRUE CONSOLER. «elf the whichcorae«fromheaTen -What, r than ■woman?" whisper* the young rire'old^nd^ug^lyrwoman""*™^ and rfds «» On the whole, then, woman in iascals, the weed in that, Jupiter, hang t tl>y balance, and weigh them both; "A pipe ?8 ft great comforter, a pleasant rioother. The man who smokes thinks like a sage, and acts like a Samaritan."—Bulwer. " A tiny volume, dedicated to the votaries of the weed; beautifully printed on toned paper in, we believe, the smallest type ever made (cast especially for show at the Great Exhibition in Hyde Park), but very clear notwithstanding its minuteness. . . . The pages sing in various styles the praises of tobacco. Amongst the writers laid under contribution are Bulwer, Kingsley, Charles Lamb, Thackeray, Isaac Browne, Cowper, and Byron."—The Field. XaangMng Philosopher (Th.e), consisting of several Thousand of the best Jokes, Witticisms, Puns, Epigrams, Humorous Stories, and Witty Compositions in the English Language; intended as "Fun for the Million.'* Square izmo, nearly 800 pages, frontis- piece, half morocco neat, 5s. 6d.