VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS, John Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W. Sets of "Punch," 1841—1860. Mr. Hotten lias Durcliased from the Messrs. Virtue and Co. their entire remainder of this important set of books, which contains, among its 12,000 Illus- trations and Contributions from the most noted Wits of the time, the woLE or Leech's Sketches,4vols.; Leech's Pencillings, 2 vols.; Tenniel's Cartoons j Doyle's Mr. Pips hys Diary ; Manners and Customs of the English ; Brown, Jones, and Eobinson ; Panch's Almanacks, i vol.; Thackeray's Miscellanies, 4 vols.; The Caudle Lectures; Story of a Feather; &c., &c. 39 half-yearly vols, bound in 20 vols., cloth gilt, gilt edges, pubhshed at £16 los.. to be obtained of Mr. Hotten for £6 los. only. The Standard Work on Diamonds and Precious Stones; their History, "Value, and Properties, with Simple Tests for Ascer- taining their Reality. By Harry E:m:anuel, F.E.G.S. With nume- rous Illustrations, tinted and plain. New Edition, Prices brought down to Present Time, full gilt, 12s. 6d. WHl be acceptable to many readers."—Timcf. ••An invaluable work for buyers and sG\\c\s."—Spectcdor. See the Times' Keviev.^ of three columna, This new edition is greatly superior to the previous one. It gives the latest marlcet value for Diamonds and Precious Stones of every size. Tho Yonng Botanist: A Popular Guide to Elementary Eotany. By T. S. Ealpii, of the Linnsean Society. In i vol., with 300 Drawings from Nature, 2s. 6d. plain, 4s. 6d. coloured by hand. *** An excellent book for the youTi<5 beginnei*. The objects selected as illuBtrations are either •easy of acceas as gpucluious of wild plauts, or are commou ia gardens. hunter's Modern Confectioner. Tlie Eest Book on Confectionery and Desserts. An Entirely New Edition of this Standard Work on the Preparation of Confectionery and the An^ange- ment of Desserts. Adapted for private families or large establish- ments. By William Jeanes, Chief Confectioner at Messrs. Gunter's (Confectioners to Her Majesty), Berkeley-square. With Plates, post 8vo, cloth, 6s. 6d. •'All housekeepers should have it"—Daily Telegraph, This work has won for. itself the reputation of being the Standard English Boole on the preparation of all kinds of Confectionery^ and on the arrangement of Desserts.