VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. John Camden Hotten. 74 and 75, Piccadilly^ W, The History of Advertising in all Ages and ConntrieSc A Companion to the " History op Signboards." With many very amusing Anecdotes and Examples of Successful Advertisers. By Messrs. Larwood and Hotten. \In preparatiorio Signboards: their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and remarkable Characters. By Jasob Larwood and John Camden Hotten. " A book which will delight all."—-^SiJectator. This day. Fourth Edition, pages 580, price 7s. 6d. only. From the " Time*.* "It is not fair oB tne part of a re- viewer to pick out the plums of an author's book, thus filching away his cream, and leaving little but skim-milk remaining; but, even If we were ever so malicioutly inclined* Prom the Timet.* we could not in th«. present instance pick out all Messrs, Larwood and Hot- ten's plums, because the good things are so numerous as to defy the most whole- sale depredation,"— Review of three columru. BULL AND MOUTH. (Angel St., St Martin's-le-Grand, circa 180W Nearly 100 most ennous illustrations on wood are given, showing the various old signs which were formerly hung from taverns and other houses. The frontispiece represents the famous sign of "The Man loaded with Mischief," in the colours of the original painting said to^ have been executed by Hogarth. Ifotice.—" Iiarge-paper Edition," with Seventy-Two extra Illustrations (not given in the small edition), showing Old London in the days when Signboards hung from almost every house*^ In 4to, half-morocco neat, 303. •»* Only a small number printed on extra fine paper with wide margins for the lover of fine bookfc The Parks of London. Their History and Asso- ciations from the Earliest Times. By Jacob Larwood. With Illus- trations BY THE Author. [In the Fress^ AN EXTRAOBDINAEY BOOK. Hotten's Edition of " Contes Drolatig.Ties" (Broil Tales collected from the Abbeys of Loraine). Par Balzac. Yfith Four Hundred and Twenty-five Mcrvellous, Extravagant, and Fan- tastic Woodcuts by Gustave Dore. Beautifully printed, thick Svofe, half morocco, Roxburghe, 12s. 6d. The most singular designs ever attempted by any artist. This book is ft fund of amusement. 80 crammed ia it with pictures that even the contents are adorned with thirty-three Illustrations. Direct application must be made to Mr. Hotten for tliis work.