VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS'. Jolin Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W. ^WN BOOK BY THE ENGLISH GUSTAYE DORE."— COMPANION TO THE " HATCHET-THROWERS." Legends of Savage Iiife. By James Greenwood, the famous Author of " A Night in a Workhouse." With 36 inimitably droll illustrations, drawn and coloured by Ernest Griset, the " EngHsh Gustave Dore." 4to, coloured, 7s. 6d.; plain, 5s. Readers who found amusement in the " Hatchet-Throwers " will not regret any acquaintance they may form with this comical work. The pictures are among the most surprising which have come from this artist's pencil. "A Munchausen sort of book. The drawings by M. Griset are very powerful and eccentric.'"— Saturday Review. School Life at Winchester College; or, the Eiemi^ niscences of a Winchester Junior. By the Author of "The Log of the Water Lily," and '' The Water Lily on the Danube." Second edition, revised, coloured plates, 7s. 6d. This book does for Winchester what " Tom Brown's School Days " did for Rugby. Log of the " Water Lily" (Thames Gig), during Two Cruises in the Summers of 1851-52, on the Khine, Neckar, Main^ Moselle, Danube, and other Streams of Germany. By K. B. Mans- field, B.A., of University College, Oxford, and illustrated by Alfred Thompson, B.A., of Trinity College, Cambridge. {In preparation. *^* This was the earliest boat excursion of the kind ever made on the Continental rivers. Very recently the subject has been revived again in the exploits of Mr. MacGregor in his Rob Roy Oanoe.'' The volume will be found most interesting to those who propose taking a similar trip, whether on the Continent or elsewhere. The Hatchet-Throwers. With Thirty-six Illustra- tions, coloured after the Inimitably Grotesque Drawings of Ernest Grtset, the English Gustave Dore. 4to, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.; plates, uncoloured, 5s. Comprises the astonishing adventures of Three Ancient Mariners, the Brothers Brass of Bristol, Mr. Corker, and Mungo Midge. Melchior Gorles. By Henry Aitchenbie. 3 vols. 8vo, £1 IIS. 6d. *ic* The New Novel, illustrative of " Mesmeric Influence," or whatever else we may choose to term that strange power which some persons exercise over others.