V£RY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS Best Guide to KesLding Old MSS., Records, &c.— "Wri£?lit's Court Hand Restored; or, Student's Assistant in Beading Old Deeds, Charters, Records, &c.'* Half morocco, los. 6d. jg®* A New Edition, corrected, of AN invaluable work to all who HAVE OCCASION TO CONSULT OLD MSS., DeEDS, CHARTERS, ^C. It contains a series of Facsimiles of old MSS. from the time of the Conqueror, Tables of Contractions and Abbreviations, Ancient Surnames, ^c. Handbook of Family History of the English Counties: Descriptive Account of 20,000 most Curious and Rare Books, Old Tracts, Ancient Manuscripts, Engravings, and Privately - printed Family Papers, relating to the History of almost every Landed Estate and Old English Family in the Country; interspersed with nearly Two Thousand Original Anecdotes, Topographical ana Antiquarian Notes* By John Camden Hotten. Nearly 350 pages, very neat, price 5s. *♦* By far the largest collection of Eng'lish and Welsh Topography and Family History evei formoi Each article has a small price affixed for the convenience of those who may desire t* pmaesa any book or tract that interests them. Higgins' (Godfrey) Celtic Druids; or, an attempt to show that the Druids were the Priests of Oriental Colonies, the introducers of the first or Cadmean System of Letters, the Builders of Stonehenge, of Carnac, and other Cyclopean Works in Asia and Europe. 4to, numerous plates of Druid monuments, rare, 32s. *** The most philosophical digest of the existing information upon the origia of Drui<***rt Worship. Copies have been sold for £7. At the above price the book is i-idiculously cheap, conw pared with the sums of money that have been paid for it very recently. Large paper copy, boards. 453., very scarce. Direct Application must he made to procwre at these reduced prices. Esholt in Airedale, Yorkshire: the Cistercian Priory of St. Leonard, Account of, with "View of Esholt Hall. Small 4to, IS. 6d. Iiondon Directory for 1667, the Earliest Itnown List of the London Merchants. i2mo, very choicely printed, price 6s. 6d. See Review in the Times, Jan. 22. *** This curious little volume has been reprinted verbatim from one of the only two copies known to be in existence. It contains an Introduction pointing out some of the principal persona mentioned in the list. For historical and genealogical purjposes the little hookis of the greatest value. EXACT FACSIMILE, LETTER FOR LETTER, OF THE EXCES- SIVELY RARE ORIGINAL, Much Adoe about Nothing. As it hath been sundrie times publikely acted by the Right Honourable the Lord Chamberlaino his seruants. Written by William Shakespeare, 1600. Small quarto, on fine toned paper, half-bound morocco, Roxburghe style, only 4s. 6d. (Origmal price, los. 6d.) John Camden Hottenf 74 and 75, Piccadilly, TF. I