VmT IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. John Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Ticcadillyj W» Seymour's Sketches* A Companion Volume to Leech's Pictures.'* The Book of Cockney Sports, Whims and Oddities. Nearly 200 highly amusing Illustrations. Oblong 4to, a handsome volume, half morocco, price 12s. •»• A re-is8ue of the famous pictorial comicalities which were so popular thirty years k%o. The volume is admirably adapted for a table-book, and the pictures will doubtless ajrain meet with that ronuiarity which was extended towards them when the artist projected with.Mr,i)ickeas the t'amou* "Pjckwick Papers." The Famous *' DOCTOR SYNTAX'S" Three Tours. One of the most Amusing and Laughable Books ever published. With the whole of Rowlandson's very droll full-page illustrations, in colours, after the original drawings. Comprising the well-known TouES:— 1. In Search of the Picturesque. 2. In Search of Consolation. 3. In Search of a Wife. The three series complete and unabridged from the original editions in one handsome volume* with a Life of this industrious Author—the En- glish Le Sage—now first written by John Camden Hotten. It is not a little surprising that the most voluminous and popular English writer since the days of Defoe should never before have received the small honour of a biography. This Edition contains the whole of the original, hitherto sold for £1 lis. 6d., but which is now published at 7s. 6d. only. A VEEY USEFUL BOOE!. In folio, half morocco, cloth sides, 7s. 6d. Literary Scraps, Cuttings from Newspapers, Extracts, Miscellanea, &c. A FOLIO SCBAF-JBOOK OF 340 COLUMNS, formed for the reception of Cuttings, &c., with guards. Authors and literary men have thanked the publisher for this useful book. *•* A most useful Tolume, and one of the chespest ever sold. The book is sure to be appreciated* and to become popular. Hone's Scrap Book. A Supplementary Volume to the " Every-Day Book," the " Year Book," and the " Table-Book." From the MSS. of the late William Hone, with upwards of One Hundred aind Fifty engravings of curious or eccentric objects. Thick 8vo, uniform, with " Year-Book," pp. 800. [In preparation^