VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. Jolin Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Piccadilly^ W» Mary Hollis; a E>omance of the days of Charles II.. and William Prince of Orange, from the Dutcli of H. J. Scliimmel,, "the Sir Walter Scott of Holland." 3 vols, crown 8vo, £1 iis. 6d. ^if* This novel relates to one of the most interesting periods of our history. It has created the- greatest excitement on the Continent, where it quickly passed through several editions. It is now translated from the Dutch with the assistance of tlie author. Wonderful Characters. Memoirs arid Anecdotes or Eemarkable and Eccentric Persons of Every Age and Nation. From the text of Henry Wilson and James Catjlfield. 8vo. Sixty-one PULL-PAGE Engravings of Extraordinary Persons. 7s. 6d. Artemus Ward in London. Including his well-known Letters to "Punch." Square i6mo, is. 6dL; cloth, 2s. *** An entirely new volume of Wit and Fun by the fejmifs humorist, and one which is sure to- become popular. Taking the Air; or, the Story of our London Parks► By Jacob Larwood. With numerous illustrations. Vol. I., Hyde- Park ; Vol. II., St. James's Park, The Green Park, and Mary Bone Gardens. Price i8s. the two volumes. This is a new and most interesting work, giving a complete History of these favourite out-of- door resorts, from the earliest period to the present time. The fashions, the promenades, the rides, the reviews, and other displays in the parks from the merry days of Cliarlcs II. down to the present, airings in Rotten-row and drives "around the ring," are all fully given, together with the exploits of bold highwaymen and the duels of rival lovers, and other appellants to the Code of Honour. UNIFOKM WITH DOCTOR SYNTaZ. *;,.* One of the cheapest and most amusing books ever published. There are so many curious- matters discussed in this volume, that any person who takes it up will not readily lay it down. The introduction is almost entirely devoted to a consideration of Pig-Faced Ladies^ and the various stories* concerning them. NEW BOOK ON THE LONDON PARKS.