v£:ey important new books. John Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W. POPULAE EDITION OF MR. DISRAELI'S SPEECHES. Disraeli's (The Right Hon. B.) Speeches on the Con- stitutional Policy of the Last 30 Years. Royal i6ino, is. 4d.; in clotli, IS. lod. Selected and edited, with the approval of the late First Minister of the Crovsn, by J. F Bulley, Esq. The text is mainly founded on a careful comparison of the Times newspaper and: Hansard's Debates, as corrected by Mr. Disraeli, and of which the publisher has obtained special licence to avail himself. Artemus Ward's Lecture at the Egyptian Hall, with the Panorama, 6s. Edited by T. W. Robertson (Antlior of " Caste," "Ours," "Society," &c.), and E. P. Hingston. SmaU 4to, exqui- sitely printed green and gold, with numerous tinted illustrations, price 6s. " Mr. Hotten has conceived the happy idea of printing Artemus Ward's * Lecture' in such a way as to afford the reader an accurate notion of the emphasis, by-play, &c., with which it was delivered. We have no hesita- tion in saying that Mr. Hotten has almost restored the great humorist tO' the flesh."—Daily Telegraph. " The tomahawk fell from our hands as we roared with laughter—the pipe of peace slipped from, between our lips as our eyes filled with tears! Laughter for Artemus's wit—tears for his untimely death! This book is a record of both. Those who never saw Artemus in the flesh, let them read of him in the spirit."—Tomahawk. " It actually reproduces AVard's Lecture, which was brimful of first-class wit and humour."— —Daily News. " It keeps you in fits of laughter."—Leader. 'One of the choice and cm-ious volumes for the Issue of which Mr. Hotten has become famou6."— Oity Press. " The Lecture is not alone droll; it is full of information."—£'xamtncr. *'lt adds one to the books of genuine fun we have g;ot."~Sunday Times. Bedding's (C3rriLs) Personal Reminiscences of Emi* nent Men. Thick cr. 8vo, three vols., 5s. complete. *** Fiill of amusing stories of eminent Literary and other Celehrities of the present century. The luorTc is a fund of anecdote. Apply to Mr. Hotten direct/or this ivorlc.