VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. John Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, PiccadAlVj, W. Fair Hosamond, and other Poems. Ey B. Mont- GOMERIE Eanking (of the Inner Temple). Fcap. 8vo, price 6s. Strawberry Hill, and other Poems. Ey ColTburn Mayne, Esq. In strawberry binding, fcap. 8vo, 7S. 6d. " It is a bright, clever little book, in which we find a great deal of good rhyme, and some genuine and pleasing poetry. There are several charming pictures of the historic group, which we know from Horace Walpole's letters and Sir Joshua's paintings."—Morning Star. Infelicia. Poems hj Adah Isaacs Menken. Illus- trated with NUMEROUS GRACEFULLY PENCILLED DESIGNS DRAWN ON WOOD, BY Alfred Concanen. Dedicated, by permission, to Charles Dickens, with photographic facsimile of his letter, and a very beau- tifully engraved portrait of the Authoress. In green and gold, 5s. 6d. a poet ? Through- out her verse there runs a golden thread of rich and pure poetry."—Press. " There is a pas- si on ate richness about many of the poems which is al- most startling,"— Sunday Times. " What can we say of this gifted and wayward woman, the exist- ence of whose better nature will be sug- gested for the first time to many by the posthumous disclo- sure of this book? We do not envy the man who, reading it, has only a sneer for its writer ; nor the woman who finds it in her heart to turn away with averted face."— New York Round Table. "A palhetic little jolume exquisitely got up."—Sun. "It is full of pathos and senti- ment, displays a keen appreciation of beauty, and has re- markable earnest- ness and passion."— Globe. "A loving and delicate care has been bestowed on perhaps the dain- tiest pages of verse that have been issued for many ye ars." — Lloyd's " Few, if any, could have guessed the power and beauty of the thoughts that pos- sessed her soul, and found expression in language at once pure and melodious. .... WhoshaU say Menken was not " An amusing little book, unhappily posthumous, which a distinguished woman has left as a legacy to mankind and the ages."—Saturday Review. Anacreon in English. Attempted in the Metres of the Original. By Thomas J. Arnold. A choice little volume, price 4s. The Village on the Forth, and other Poems.'^ Ey Philip Latimer. Just published, elegantly printed, price 33. 6d. Baudelaire. Translations from Chas. Baudelaire, with a few Original Poems. By E. Herne Shepherd. Fcap., same size as Tennyson's "Maud," price 5s. y—— ^