VERY IMPORTANT NEW BOOKS. John Camden Hotten, 74 and 75, Piccadilly, W, 'Original Edition of Blake's Works. NOTICE.—Mr. Hotten has in preparation a few facsimile copies {exact as to 'pa/per, printing—the water-colour drawings being filled in hy an ■artist) of tlie Original Editions of the Books written and Illustrated by William Blake. As it is only intended to produce—with utmost ■care—a few examples of each work, Mr. Hotten will be glad to hear from any gentleman who may desire to secure copies of these wonderful books. The first volume, " Marriage of Heaven and Hell," 4to, is now being issued, price 303., half morocco. " Blake is a real name, I assure you, and a most extraordinary man he is, if he still be living. He is the Blake whose wild designs accompany a splendid edition of 'Blair'a Grave.' He paints in toater-colours marvellous strange pictures—visions of his brain—which he asserts he has seen. They have great merit. I must look upon him as one of the most extraordinaiy persons of the age "— Charles Lamb. Creorge Chapman's Plays, from the Original Texts. Edited, with Notes and an Introduction, by Algernon Charles Swinburne. 4 vols., tastefully printed, uniform with Wm. Pickering's Editions of the " Old Dramatists." [In preparation. UNIFORM WITH MR. SWINBURNE'S POEMS. Fcap. 8vo, 45- pasres. 'F^\^(^■ Portrait and Autograph, 7s. 6d. Walt Whitman's Poems. (I^eaves of Grass, Bnim- Taps, &c.) Selected and Edited by William Michat^l Rossetti. " Whitman is a poet who bears and needs to be read as a whole, and then the volume and t6r-'-r»< of his power carry the disfigurements along with it and away.—He is really a fine fellow."— •Chambers's Journal, in a very long Notice, July ith, 18G8. ^ A great d.eal of prejudice in this country has been shown against this very remarJcable author. His loor'k should be read by independent minds, and an opinion formed totally apart from the attacks that have been made upon him. Hrossetti's Criticisms on Swinlbiirne's Poems. Price 3s. 6d. The Prometheus Bound of Sschylus. Translated in the Original Metres by C. B. Cayley, B.A. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. SECOND EDITION.—Now ready, 4to, los. 6d., on toned paper, very elegant. Bianca. Poems and Ballads. By Edward Brennan.