CARTILAGE, oOO^CXX- ■ 53 FiK. 24. wliile the descendants have received the name of daughter cells. If the process of division be slow each new cell may form around it a new capsule (see Fig. 2-i). In this case the mother cap- sule contains a series of daughter capsules. If, how- ever, the process of multipli- cation is rapid the newly born cells will not have time to secure the formation of a capsule before they give birth to new cells. Hence, the orginal mother capsule must now contain two or a greater number of cells of a more or less embrj^onal nature. The healthy carti- lage-cell lives, then, within an envelope or shell which it builds for itself as a habitation. The inner surface of this envelope, the cartilage capsule^ forms the boundary of a lymph-space, more or less spherical, which is normally quite filled by the body of the cartilage-cell (see figs. 4, 5, Plate III.). Pre- parations of cartilage usually show the cartilage-cell to be more or less angular, and occupying only a small Proliferating Cartilage- CELi.s.—c. Protoplasm of the cell ; a, nucleolus ; J, nucleus ; d, pri- mary and secondary cartilage cap- sules ; e, ground substance. In one of the cartilage-cells are seen two nuclei. Cartilage OF A CrTTLE-Fi.>ii.—a. d. Body of cell, of the cells, c. Fundamoutal substance. h. Anastomosing branches X-iOO. (Ranvier.) proportion of the space within the capsule. This is a distortion, due to the death and shrinking of the cell. In the depth of cartilage the capsules usually have a tendency to assume the spheroid form, while to- wards the surface they become more or less flattened or lenticular in outline. In the superficial layer, at the articular surfaces, the cells are quite flat, and sometimes branched. In the articular cartilages, near the periphery, where the fibrous tissue of the syno- vial membrane is attached, the cartilage-cells are often branched, and at the line of attachment the processes of the branched cells sometimes communicate with those of the connective-tissue corpuscles of the fibrous tissue. Branched cells, like those seen in Fig. 25, are not uncommon in hyaline cartilage of some lower animals. Matrix.-—-The intercellular substance, the ground- substance, or, as it is technically called, the matrix of hyaline cartilage, is usually hard, somewhat elastic, homogeneous, and transparent. In adult cartilage, after staining, the matrix faintly shows, by slight dif- erences in shade, very indistinct and shadowy mark- ing for some distance around the capsule (fig. 5, Plate III.). The cartilage-cell seems to have been a centre around which on all sides the matrix has been de- posited in successive layers from without inwards, the existing capsule being last deposited. Under some circumstances the shadowy areas around the capsule seem to be composed of a number of concentric shells. The whole ground-substance appears to consist of an aggregation of these shadowy areas surrounding the cells. Fihrillation of matrix.—Sometimes in adult hyaline cartilage the matrix is seen to be very finely fibril- lated. This condition is met with most frequently in the costal cartilages of the aged, and in the calcifying layer of ossification of cartilage (see fig. 1, Plate IV.). Emlryonal cartilage.—-The cells of hyaline carti- lages may be closely aggregated, or they may be sparsely distributed through the matrix. When the intercellular substance is so small in amount that it is scarcely appreciable, the cartilage is known as parenchymatous or ernbryonal cartilage. In the deep portion of articular cartilages, in the neighborhood of lines of ossification, the cartilage cor- puscles assume an arrangement in parallel rows more or less vertical to the articular surface. Perichondrium.—Each variety of cartilage is en- veloped in a fibrous membrane, the 'perichondrium.^ which covers it everywhere except upon the articular surfaces and in the lines of ossification. Calcification of cartilage.—Cartilage may be infil- trated with calcareous particles. When this is the case lime granules, minute and more or less angular, are first deposited in the ground-substance, immediately around the cartilage capsules. From these points the