DEFINITIONS. 5>00^00« 19 DEFINITIONS. Anatomy is the science that treats of the enume- ration of organized bodies, and the description of their structure. Human Anatomy treats of the anatomy of man. CoMPAKATiVE Anatomy, as usually understood, treats of the anatomy of all animals excepting man. In a better sense. Comparative Anatomy includes the form and structure of animals as related among them- selves rather than as related to man. The term may be also used in spealiing of the anatomy of the differ- ent races of mankind as compared with one another. Descbiptive ok Systemic Anatomy treats of the body as classified by its tissues or organs. Thus, the bones, the muscles, the bloodvessels, the viscera, etc., are severally distinct from one another. Descriptive Anatomy is opposed to Topographical or Regional Anatomy. In this subdivision the body is divided by the relations of its ^ parts to one another into a number of more or less arbitrarily defined regions. Surgical Anatomy is a term often used to designate that branch of topographical anatomy which treats of regions of special importance in the study of surgical operations and of the efiects of injury. Medical Anatomy is of similar import to the foregoing, but refers chiefly to the relations of parts as specially considered by the student of clinical conditions as distinguished from surgical. General Anatomy treats of the composition and general relations of the tissues and organs. Thus, by the general anatomy of bone are understood, first, the composition of the fibrous tissue, the cartilage, and the salts contained in the bone; secondly, the relations that these hold one to another; and, thirdly, the consideration of similar structures or ingredients in allied tissues. The study of the ultimate elements of structure, as resolvable by the microscope, has led authors of late years to speak of this branch of gene- ral anatomy as Histology or Microscopical Anatomy. In like manner, the chemical analysis of tissue is treated of under the head of Zoo-chemistry, or Phy- siological Chemistry. General Anatomy is opposed to Special Anatomy, which deals with the elucidation of a single part. Comparative anatomists apply this term to the struc- ture of a single animal when no comparison is en- tered upon. In this sense human anatomy itself is a Special Anatomy. Morphological Anatomy, or Morphology, is the science of oro'anic form, and treats of homolooies and the comprehensive relations of parts, especially those relations indicating zoological affinity. It is often in- exactly spoken of as Philosophical or Transcendental Anatomy. It is opposed to Teleological Anatomy, or Teleology, which treats of the adaptations of parts or organs to certain final specific uses. Physiological Anatomy includes the considera- tion of the functions of organs, but in a more general sense than teleology. There is no sharply-defined line separating physiological anatomy from physiology or physics. The physiological anatomy of the eye is at once its physiology, which, in turn, can be explained only by reference to the principles of physics as ap- plied to vision. Morbid Anatoimy is the science which treats of the variations in the normal anatomy as determined by diseased action. It is conventionally held to in- clude congenital defects, or gross variations in struc- ture: but these subjects are best included under the head of Teratology. Practical Anatomy is a term much in use to embrace the special kinds of printed directions best suited to those engaged in dissecting, together with the methods of making anatomical preparations, etc. It may also be said to include the study of human anatomy by dissection in contradistinction to the