47 THE CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SYSTEM. ooO^Cx^ more or less completely enveloped in a thin elastic slieath. Such ensheathed bundles are to be found in the subcutaneous connective-tissue, in the subarach- noid of the brain, in aponeuroses, in tendons, and in some other locations. /Structure and arrangement of fibrous bundles.—The bundles of fibrils present a distinct longitudinal fibrillation when seen under a sufficient magnifying power. When they are loose and wavy, they also appear to have an indistinct, transverse striation. This is an optical illusion caused by short and very frequent waves in the course of the fibrils. This wavy appearance of the fibrils, and consequent appa- rent transverse striation, may be seen sometimes even wlien the sides of the bundle seem to be perfectly straight. Water and weak acids cause the interfibrillar ce- ment to swell, and give the bundle a hyaline or homogeneous aspect. These agents have no such effect upon the elastic sheath wliich envelops some of the bundles. Ensheathed bundles appear swollen in some places, and constricted iu others, thus present- ing- a beaded outline. a The bundles of fibrous tissue may be variously ar- ranged with respect to each other. The simplest arrangement is that of a collection into secondary bundles or bands, which run parallel with each other and are spread out, side by side, to form lamellar membranes, as in aponeuroses, or are collected to- gether to form rounded cords, as in tendons. They may, on the other hand, cross each other in various directions, forming a loose felt-work with wide meshes, as in the loose connective-tissues; for example, the sub- cutaneous- or mucous-tissue, the inter-muscular con- nective-tissue, the loose interstitial connective-tissue of glands, etc. Or they may be closely packed together to form a very dense felt-work, such as the cutis, the dura mater, etc. On the other hand, the bundles may form a loose network spread out in the form of a membrane with more or less wide meshes, like the mesentery, the ligamentum dentatum of the spinal cord, etc. Interfibrous spaces, cmd their cellular contents.—The spaces left between the fibrous bundles are conse- (piently of forms varying according to the direction of the bundles. They are filled with lymph, and con- stitute the radicals of the great lymphatic system. In tendons, the spaces left between the bundles are more or less linear when viewed longitudinally, and when seen in transverse section appear more or less stellate. When speaking of endotliclia and connective-tissue corpuscles, we described the flat elastic cells which form a partial lining of the lymph-space formed between adjacent parallel bundles of tendons, and stated their relation to the bundles of fibrils upon which they were more or less closely applied. It was then stated that these cells (the flat tendon-plates of Ranvier) spread across two or more bundles. Fig. 2, Plate III., shows very beautifully this peculiar arrangement of the tendon-cells. The drawing re- presents a number of (primary) bundles united to- gether into a (secondary) larger bundle forming a small tendinous cord in the tail of a young rat. In larger tendons we have a number of such secondary bundles collected together to form the tendon. Ten- dons of this kind have their external surface covered by a complete layer of large flat endothelial plates such as line serous cavities, which rest upon an ex- tremely thin elastic apparently structureless mem- brane. Such a tendon, after proper treatment by ni- trate of silver, when placed under the microscope and seen longitudinally, shows this superficial covering of endothelial cells. By lowering the focus the flat tendon-cells of Ranvier next come into view. The lat- ter if seen in surface present the appearances already described dpropos of the cells of the connective-tissue. If their position upon the secondary bundles is such that they are seen in profile, they then appear as lines or spindles with slightly projecting bellies correspond- ing to the location of the nucleus. When a tendon composed of secondary bundles is cut transversely, and properly stained, it presents a number of more or less markedly stellate bodies (Fig. 20) connected the Fig. 20. Tranbvekbe Sehtion of Tendon: showing so-caUed branched corpuscles, inclosing spaces which, left blank, are naturally filled with tendinous fasci- culi, nigh power. (Carpenter.) one with the other by anastomosing branches ((7, fig. 2, Plate III.). These bodies were formerly regarded as stellate connective corpuscles. They are, in normal tendon, generally nothing more than the cross cuts of the more or less flat tendon plates of Ranvier. These stellate forms may consist of two or more of such plates in apposition. Sometinies even one or more lymphoid