HISTOLOGY. —=00^000 membranous structures, which will be especially con- sidered hereafter. Thej carry the blood and lymph to and from the nervous tissue. In the white and gray substance of the cerebro-spinal centres, the bloodvessels of all sizes run in lymph-channels. The blood-capillaries of the brain are some of the smallest in the whole organism. The capillary vessels are much more numerous in the gray than in the white substance, SPINAL NERVE-GANGLIA. As is well known, the sensory roots of the spinal nerves pass through a collection of ganglion nerve-cells before uniting with the anterior roots to form a nerve of double function. In leaving the spinal marrow, and passing out of the spinal canal, the nerves per- forate the frail envelope of the cord without receiving any part of it as a covering. In penetrating the arachnoidal and the dural investment of the cord, however, the roots of the spinal nerves receive fibres from each of these membranes, and are consequently surrounded by an inner or arachnoidal and an outer or dural sheath, which form respectively a subarach- noid and a subdural lymph-space around the nerve- root, each entirely separated from the other; but communicating freely with the corresponding space of the spinal cord. As the nerve-roots pass on and unite to form the spinal nerve, the dural sheath be- comes continuous with, and is represented by, the epineurium, while the arachnoid is represented by the perineurium. The spinal ganglia are enveloped in fibrous tissue arranged in a manner quite analogous to that of the nerves. Groups of ganglion-cells are surrounded by a laminated connective-tissue identical in structure and continuous with the perineurium of the nerve- bundles. The ganglion is composed of a larger or smaller number of such groups separated and held together by a loose, tough connective-tissue in which small arteries and veins ramify. This represents the epineurium of the nerves, and is continuous with it. The ganglion-cells constituting a group are separated from each other by a variable amount of delicate, loose connective-tissue very similar to the endoneu- rium separating the individual fibres of the nerve- bundles which penetrate between the ganglion-cells of a group. In this endoneurium capillary blood- vessels course, and single nerve-fibres or groups of medullated and non-meduUated fibres run between the ganglion-cells. Ganglion-cells.—The ganglion nerve-cells are com- paratively large, and of divers sizes and forms. Tlie prevalent form is that of an oval or somewhat pear- shaped body, with one, rarely two or more processes. This large nerve-cell contains one large spherical, generally excentric, nucleus, containing one or more refractile nucleoli. The nucleus is enveloped in a EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Represents half of a transverse section of the spinal cord of Man in the lumbar region. Very slight enlarge- ment. f, The anterior median fissure ; tlie posterior median fissure ; d, the remains of the central canal lined with colum- nar epithelium, and located in the gray commissure. In front of the latter is seen the decussation of the white fibres of the commissure ; c, the anterior horn of the gray matter ; a, bands of nerve-fibres issuing from the anterior horn to form the anterior root of a spinal nerve; b, posterior root issuing in a single band from the gray matter of the pos- terior horn ; m, the lateral tract; t, the posterior radical tract; g, the column of GoU ; the fibres of the two latter together form the posterior column. Fig. 2. Transverse section of a portion of the external an- terior border of the gray matter of an anterior horn of the spinal cord of Man. Highly magnified, c, Cross-sections of medullated nerve-fibres of the adjoin- OF PLATE XI. ing white substance ; a, nuclei of the neuroglia of the gray matter; n, n, nerve-fibres running in the gray matter; a multipolar ganglion-cell, finely striated, is seen imbedded in the gray substance ; within the ganglion-cell a large vesicular nucleus containing a nucleolus is distinctly visible. Fig. 3. Vertical section of the cortex of a cerebral convolu- tion of Man. Medium enlargement, a, Cortical layer in which the prevalent direction of the connective-tissue or neuroglia-fibres is parallel to the sur- face ; b, layer of small club-shaped nerve-cells; g, layer of larger club-shaped nerve-cells ; c, capillary bloodvessels. Fi"'. 4. A surface view of a fibrous lamella of the cornea after treatment with silver nitrate. High power. I, s, Lymph-spaces; n, a corneal nerve-bundle ensheathed in a covering of endothelial cell-plates.