BLOODVESSELS. 71 OOO^OO-i entering into the construction of the different arterial tunics are more fully developed, while a few other characteristics are added. The tunica adventitia has gained in thickness by a more complete development of a connective felt-work, whose fibres now have a prevalent longitudinal course. Scattered among these bundles of white fibrous tissue appear a few fine elastic fibres. In the loose meshes formed by the inter- crossing of the fibrous bundles are more or less numerous connective-tissue corpuscles and lymphoid cells. These loose meshes thus formed are lymph- spaces, which very freely intercommunicate. The elastic fibres become more abundant and larger as the tunica media is approached. At the line of union between the outer and middle coats, the elastic fibres form a dense network, and spread out more or less into a fenestrated membrane which constitutes the line of division between these two tunics. This dense collection of elastic fibres has been termed the external elastic membrane. The tunica media is now constituted by a much, more numerous collection of smooth muscle-fibres; but, instead of forming as before a continuous mus- cular membrane composed of a single layer of cells, the latter are arranged in several more or less con- tinuous layers, the cells of each layer, however, still running transversely around the axis of the vessel. Tlie several muscular layers of which the tunica media is now composed are separated from each other by plates of elastic tissue in the form of fenes- trated membranes. These elastic plates run mainly longitudinally and at the same time parallel to the curved surface of the vessel. They are connected with those internal and external to them by means of networks of fine elastic fibres (fig. 3, Plate III.) which, run among the cells of the muscle-layers. Be- tween the muscular membranes which the last-named cells constitute, is also to be found now for the first time a very small amount of fibrous connective-tissue with elements which usually accompany it. At the external boundary of the tunica intima, and forming a sharp, distinct line of division between it and the media tunica, is another dense accumulation of elastic tissue—called the internal elastic membrane. It consists, in small arteries, of two or more fenestrated elastic layers so closely packed against each other as to present in section an appearance of a simple struc- tureless elastic membrane. Internal to this elastic layer of the tunica intima is a slight accumulation of delicate white fibrous tissue. The direction of these fibres is mainly longitudinal. They intercros.s, how- ever, at acute angles, and form between them lymph- spaces elongated with the axis of the vessel. These spaces contain fusiform and branched connective-tissue corpuscles, as well as an occasional lymphoid cell. This connective layer is covered internally by the endothelia lining the lumen of the vessel. The out- line of these cell plates is that of a sharp-pointed lozenge, and their edges are somewhat sinuous. When the artery is cut transversely, the internal elastic layer of the tunica intima is shown beautifully fes- tooned—an appearance which gives the inner surface of the arterial wall an extremely wavy outline. Seen in face, the inner surface of the artery appears cov- ered with longitudinal folds or ridges. In the large arterial trunks, the tunica media and intima become much thicker. In the tunica media, the number of muscular layers is much increased, as well as are the thickness and size of the elastic plates between them. The elastic fibres which form a net- work among the muscle-cells are also much stcniter than before. Instead of nearly all the muscle-fibres running transversely, as in the smaller vessels, there are to be found in some arteries longitudinal and ob- lique bundles, especially in the inner portion of the tunica media. These are occasionally met with in the tunica adventitia, but rarely in the longitudinal fibrous layer of the tunica intima. The elastic layer of the tunica intima is much thicker, and is also laminated. Between the laminge is to be found a small amount of connective-tissue. The layer of longitudinal fibrous bundles beneath the endothelial lining of the lumen of the vessel is now quite distinct. As a rule, the larger the artery the thicker becomes the muscular tunic and the more numerous the muscle- fibres. In the aorta, however, we have a partial exception to this rule (fig. 1, Plate YIL). Of this great vessel the following characteristics may be enumerated. The tunica adventitia is here compara- tively thin. The tunica media is thick, but the layers of muscular tissue are thin, and the muscle-fibres which constitute them are scattering. In the inner portion of the tunica media the elastic plates which separate the muscular layers are also thickened and laminated. The fibres of the elastic network which unite the plates and which anastomose among the muscle-fibres are thick, tough, elastic cylinders, whose main direction is longitudinal to the axis of the vessel. In the outer portion of the tunica media the elastic plates are less laminated and are not so thick as in smaller arteries; neither are the elastic fibres so large. An aj)preciable amount of connective-tissue is scat- tered through the middle coat. The tunica intima is