82 HISTOLOGY. They are also not infrequently present in serous cov- erings. The mesentery of the cat is the most favorable position in which to study them. They consist of a thick, dense capsule formed by a large number of thin concentric membranous lamina of white fibrous tis- sue (Fig. 52, and fig. 3, Plate X.). These laminae are Pacinian Corpuscle with its system of capsules and central cavity —a. Arte- rial twig, ending in capillaries, which form loops in some of the intercapsular spaces ; one penetrates to the central capsule, b. The fibrous tissue of the stalk prolonged from the neurilemma, n. Nerve-tube advancing to the central capsules, there losing its white substance, and stretching along the axis to the opposite end, where it is attached by a tubercular enlargement. (Oray.) slightly separated by very thin strata of semifluid substance, in which is imbedded an extremely thin— probably elastic—film consisting of a single layer of flat endothelial cells. In sections of the Pacinian cor- puscle, such as the figure represents, the nuclei of these endothelial cells appear as rows of fusiform bodies be- tween the concentric lamellae. The capsule incloses a narrow axial space of an elongated, somewhat cylindri- cal form, usually having a slight enlargement, some- times even a bifurcation of the upper end. This capsule fits over the extremity of the nerve-fibre in the follow- ing manner. The perineural sheath of the medullated nerve-fibre thickens and becomes continuous with the outer lamellee of the fibrous capsule of the corpuscle. The sheath of Schwann and the medullary sheath are generally lost, as the nerve-fibre penetrates the thickness of the capsular covering. By the time that the axis-cylinder has reached the axial space of the capsule it has usually lost all of its cover- ings. It passes up the central portion of the space until the enlargement at the end is reached. Here the axis-cylinder terminates generally in a single button-shaped or cauliflower knob. Sometimes just before reaching this point the axis-cylinder bifurcates or trifurcates, each division ending in a similar enlargement. Instead of the axis-cylinder pursuing a nearly rectilinear course in the axial space of the capsule it may be more or less convoluted. Sometimes the medullary sheath continues into the lower part of the axial space. This central space, besides con- taining the terminal ends of the nerve-fibrils, is filled with a semifluid albuminoid substance. Its walls are covered with a layer of endothelial plates. It is doubtful whether the individual fibrillge of the axis- cylinder terminate in the upper portion of the axial space by free extremities with a minute bulb, or whether they end in an extremely fine terminal net- work. Besides a nerve-fibre, each Pacinian corpuscle is supplied with a minute afferent and efferent blood- vessel and an intermediate capillary plexus. The bloodvessels usually enter and emerge with the nerve- fibre, but sometimes they pass into the capsule at the opposite extremity. The capillaries are distributed between the lamellae of the fibrous capsule, and never reach the central axial space. Occasionally, instead of one Pacinian body being connected with a nerve- fibre, as is usual, the fibre may divide at a node of Kanvier, and each branch end in a Pacinian corpuscle. The group of corpuscles is then often connected to- gether by longer or shorter bands of fibrous tissue. Hair-hulhs.—The hair-hulbs receive the termina- tions of medullary nerve-fibres, and are sometimes exquisitely sensitive. Nerve-endings in gland-cells. — Pfluger, among others, has carefully studied the relations of nerves to some of the secreting glands, and has found nerve- fibres in direct connection with the nuclei of cells in the acini, and even in the ducts of glands. Fig. 53 shows four modes of direct termination of nerve- fibres in gland-cells. h. Termination of motor nerves.—The motor nerves have their peripheral endings among muscle-fibres. Nerve-endings in smooth muscle.—In smooth muscles their character, distribution, and termination are not the same as in striped muscle. ISTon-medullated nerve bundles run and branch in the loose connective-tissue between the bundles of muscular fibres. They are enveloped in a cellular sheath, which is a representa- tion of the perineurium, and they are composed of