46 HISTOLOGY. '■ c-00^00*>- They are capable of limited movements, which, however, are perhaps not usually sufficient for loco- motion, although some of them are doubtless wander- ing cells. They have no limiting membrane; pos- sess one, sometimes two or more nuclei, and consist of an intra-cellular and an intra-nuclear network, which give to the element a more or less granular aspect. The ground-substance seems to be void of bloodvessels in the adult. Another variety of mucous-tissue, a type of which is met with in the Whartonian jelly of the umbilical cord, has a more complicated structure, and is a grade higher in the scale of development. In a gelatinous niucin-containing ground-substance similar to that of the simplest variety, is to be found a network, or rather felt-work of soft, delicate, slightly refracting fibres. These are collected into bundles or bands, sometimes of considerable width. Upon and near these bundles, cells more or less stellate, and in.other respects similar to the flat-branched cells of loose connective-tissue which have already been particu- larly described, are to be seen, these branches form- ing by their communications a more or less complete network of stellate cells. Some of the bundles con- tain, in their interior, bloodvessels with distinct and somewhat thick walls. The inter-fibrillar areas are also sometimes permeated by capillary bloodvessels with large loose meshes, and with strong, distinct walls. These capillary vessels are ensheathed by a network of branched cells. The interfibrillar spaces also contain, in small numbers, the lymphoid cells common to the simplest variety. Sometimes net- works, composed of fusiform or of branched connec- tive-tissue cells (fig. 5, Plate II.), are seen occupying the inter-fibrillar spaces. In some pathological for- mations of mucous-tissue there is, in addition to the foregoing structure, a sparse network of fine single elastic fibres. WHITE FIBROUS-TISSUE. Fibrous hrmdles.—"White fibrous connective-tissue is most extensive in its distribution. It consists of extremely fine fibrils collected together into bundles varying widely in thickness and form. These bundles of fibrils ma}^ be cylindrical or band-like, the sides of the cylinders or bands being usually parallel. The bundles mav be branched, but the individual fibres never are so. The course of the bundles may be straight, or more or less wavj^, according to whether they are tense or loose. The minute fibrils which constitute the bundles are united and held together by a transparent viscid cement, which may be dis- solved by weak acids, lime-water, baryta water, JO per cent, solution of salt, and by other means known to the histologist. In some locations, the bundles are EXPLANATION OF PLATE II. Fig. 1. A profile view of a Human liair-follicle, containing a hair under a higli power. (After Frey.) «, The fibrous slieatli; b, tlie external root sheath ; c, tlie cuticle of tlie liair-sliaft; /j, the papilla of the hair; A, e, the medullary axis of the hair-shaft; h, the cortical cylinder of the hair-shaft; g, the transition of the cor- neous epithelial scales of the cortical cylinder of the hair- shaft above, with the soft, nucleated, and membrane- less epithelium of the bulbar portion of the hair ; e, point of transition of the soft nucleated epithelium of the bulbar portion of the medulla of the hair-shaft into the shrunkened, deformed, and dry corneous granules which fill the medulla of the upper portion of the shaft. Fig. 2. Transverse section of half of a Human hair, with its root sheaths, still higher power. (After Frey.) h, Hair-shaft; e, hair-cuticle ; c, two layers of the internal root-sheath ; h, external root-sheath, showing an outer layer of columnar cells ; f, basement membrane ; a, the external fibrous sheath. Fig. 3. «, h, c. Stellate mucous-tissue cells, whose processes form a more or less complex netwoik. (Moderate en- largement.) Fig. 4. Represents isolated cells of various parts of the hair. Highly magnified. (After Frey.) e, Nucleated epithelial cells of the bulbar portion of the liair; h, h, cells from the cuticle of the hair ; h', corneous epithelial cells of the cortical portion of the shaft, treated with sulphuric acid, the same resolved into separate plates at h." Fig. 5. Mucous tissue (gelatinous tissue) fi-om the umbilical cord of a Lamb, very highly magnified. (After Ran- vier.) c. Branched cells ; n, embryonal cells, or lymph corpuscles; F, connective fibres; intercellular amorphous fluid-sub- stance, containing mucin.