3 (17) HUMAN ANATOMY, INCLUDING ITS MEDICAL AND SURGICAL RELATIONS. INTEODUCTION. IT is the design of this book to present the facts of human anatomy in the manner best suited to the requirements of the student and the practitioner of medicine. The author believes that such a boolv is needed, inasmuch as no treatise, as far as he knows, contains, in addition to the text descriptive of the subject, a systematic presentation of such anatomical facts as can be applied to practice. "Works on anatomy may be placed in two groups: those written by scientists which have no special ap- plication of any kind, and those written by surgeons which have a decided leaning to surgical application. The model for the latter group originated in Europe, where the line is sharply drawn between surgical and medical practice. It requires but little discernment to detect the faulty plan upon which both these va- rieties of books are constructed. The scientist neces- sarily lacks clinical knowledge and sympathy; the surgeon lacks interest in all but one class of subjects. A book which will be at once accurate in statement and concise in terms; which will be an acceptable ex- pression of the present state of the science of anat- omy; which will exclude nothing that can be made applicable to the medical art, and which will thus embrace all of surgical importance, while omitting nothing of value to clinical medicine—would appear to have an excuse for existence in a country where most surgeons are general practitioners, and where there are few general practitioners who have no in- terest in surgery. The author may be allowed to say that, in the performance of his self-imposed task, nothing has been hastily or inconsiderately undertaken. He has been actuated throughout by a sincere desire to produce a useful book. He has subordinated all other ten- dencies and notions to this end. In occasionally attempting a method of treatment of a subject some- what different from the one usually accepted, he has not departed from established ways of teaching for the sake of appearing to be original, but for good reasons, as he trusts will appear when the reader compares the text with that of other books on anatomy. The plan adopted is one necessarily encyclopedic. The author has gleaned his materials from every source accessible to him, and, so far from fearing a charge of plagiarism, he will be glad to have the instances noted in which he has had the good taste to appropriate an occasional apt phrase or striking- adjective. There is doubtless a greater degree of indebtedness due Ens;lish works than the author is aware of, since the powerful impressions they have made on his mind must remain unconsciously to in- fluence his style. By way of introduction to the essential features of the volume, the attention of the reader is invited to the kinds of knowledge of the human body the physician demands. In the first place, the physician demands an exact acquaintance with the form and construction of the oro;ans of the bodv. But, inasmuch as an anatomical fact is of little use unless the range of the application of the fact is known, the due connection between the normal condition of an organ and the variation in the condition of that organ within the limits of health will