NERVOUS TISSUE. 81 o<x;^<x>^ minute fibrils come off from it, and enter the sub- stance of the corneal corpuscles to terminate therein. Besides the foregoing modes of peripheral distribu- tion of sensory nerves, there are yet to be men- tioned certain special structures in which nerves of this character frequently end. The most important of these are the Pacinian corpuscles, tactile corpuscles, and the end-bulbs of Krause. End-hulhs of Krause.—These organs are met with in small numbers at the peripheral ends of some of the medullated nerves terminating in the deeper layers of the conjunctiva, especially near the cornea. They appear to have a simple plan of structure. h, fig. 2, Plate X., represents, under a low power, the simplest form of such an end-bulb from the con- junctiva of the calf. In this case its outline is some- what cylindrical, with rounded ends, and it is fixed upon the end of a medullated nerve-fibre, c. The nerve-fibre is seen to pass nearly straight along the axis of the elongated bulb, and to terminate in a slightly tapering extremity, near the end opposite the point of entrance. In man the end-bulbs of Krause are often more or less spherical, and the nerve-fibre, after entering the organ, instead of pursuing a direct course, is frequently more or less convoluted, and even sometimes branched. The nerve-fibre upon which it is placed possesses a distinct perineurium, enveloping a neurilemma, within which is an axis- cylinder insulated by a medullary sheath : all these parts exhibit their usual characteristics. When the nerve reaches the end-bulb the perineurium spreads out and envelops it, forming in some instances a slightly laminated sheath. Ordinarily, but not always, the nerve-fibre loses its medullary sheath upon enter- ing the bulb. The axis-cylinder enters the body of the bulb and passes to the opposite end, either in a straight or somewhat wavy course, or after first forming several tortuous curves or convolutions. It may end in a tapering extremity, extend into a knot, or divide into two or more branches, each ending in a terminal enlargement. Among the convolutions nuclei are generally found in some numbers, embedded in a slightly granular substance. Occasionally the medullated sheath continues for some distance along the convolution. Bulbous nerve-terminations somewhat similar to those above described are found in considerable num- bers upon the genital organs. Tactile corpuscles.—The tactile corpuscles are nerve- terminations of much wider distribution than the end- bulbs of Krause, and are somewhat more complex in structure. They are found mainly in the apex of 11 papillae of the skin, and because of their location in greatest numbers at the ends of the fingers, and upon other surfaces endowed with the most delicate sense of touch, they have been called tactile bodies or cor- puscles. In their simplest form they consist of an enlargement shaped somewhat like a pine cone upon the end of a medullated nerve-fibre. (Fig. 51.) The Fig. 51. Tactile Corpuscle.—a. Side view of a papiUa of tte hand. a. Cortical layer. b. Tactile corpuscle, with transverse nuclei, c. Small nerve of papilla, with neurilemma, d. Its two nervous fibres running with spiral coils around the tactile corpuscle, e. Apparent termination of one of these fibres. B. A tactile papilla seen from above, so as to show its transverse section, a. Cortical layer, h. Nerve-fibres, c. Outer layer of the tactile body, with nuclei, d. Clear interior substance. From the Human subject, and treated with acetic acid. Highly magnified. {Gray.) perineural sheath of the fibre thickens and spreads out to form a tolerably thin laminated fibrous covering or capsule for the touch-corpuscle. The main con- tents of this capsule are large, clear, vesicular, nucle- ated cells frequently flattened from above downward, and piled one upon the other somewhat like the disks of a Voltaic pile. The medullated nerve-fibre pene- trates the touch-corpuscle at its deep end, sometimes losing its medullary sheath, sometimes retaining it for some distance within the body of the corpuscle. Upon entering the body of the tactile corpuscle the nerve-fibre coils around the surface of the previously mentioned cells in a sort of ascending spiral, which, sinking into the indentation between the cells, is ultimately lost to view. Fine fibrils, probably con- tinuous with the axis-cylinder of the coils between the cells, wind around the surface between the coils, and cause an appearance of fine transverse fibrillation. Exactly how the nerve fibrillse terminate in this com- plex body is not known. Pacinian corpuscles.—The Pacinian corpuscles^ in which some medullated sensory fibres end, are com- paratively large ovoid bodies, which in favorable locations are distinctly visible to the naked eye. They are most frequently found in the subcutaneous and submucous loose cellular tissue, and in the loose connective-tissue between bundles of muscle-fibres.