76 HISTOLOGY. =00^000 . inge of the perineurium exist shallow lymph-spaces, containing connective-tissue elements, and partially lined by endothelium. The perineurium may inclose a single bundle {funiculus) of individual nerve-fibres, or it may ensheathe a number of such bundles, a-nd constitute what has been termed a nerve-fasciculus. Netiroijlia. — In the simple funiculus the nerve- fibres are more or less closely packed side by side, imbedded in a soft, semifluid, somewhat granular substance, in which are scattered a few very fine connective-tissue bundles, a number of minute indi- vidual fibrillas, and some flat and branched connective- tissue corpuscles. In this tissue (the endoneurium— a continuation of the neuroglia), run the capillary vessels, with much elongated meshes. As the endo- neurium approaches the perineurium, it often becomes condensed into a more resistant layer, which is slightly separated from the inner lamina of the perineurium by a thin encircling lymph space (a continuation of the subarachnoid space). At very numerous points this lymph-space is crossed by uniting trabeculge of con- nective-tissue, and is everywhere lined by a layer of endothelia. When the perineurium ensheathes a number of funiculi, the latter are separated from each other by more or less complete partitions of the en- doneurium, consisting of fibrous septa from the inner surface of the perineurium. The fine connective fibrilla3 of the endoneurium between the nerve-fibres are often closely interlaced around the nerve-cylinders as if to constitute for the latter a special protection. The endoneurium, besides carrying the capillary bloodvessels, is permeated by a network of capillary lymph-spaces. Nerve-fibres, medullated and non-medullated.—The nerve-fibre, nerve-cylinder, or nerve-tube will be now described. When an ordinary cerebro-spinal nerve is cut across transversely, after proper hardening, the section offers, under a moderate power of the micro- scope, an appearance well represented in fig. 1, Plate IX. Within the perineuria (c), which present circular sections, are cross-cuts of simple bundles or funiculi of nerve-tubes. In the granular ground-substance (the endoneurium) are a few delicate fibrous bundles. Scattered more or less unevenly through the endo- neurium are seen small, round, light spots, and in or near the centre [d) of each is a dark dot. The latter corresponds to the central or conducting fibres (the axis cylinder') of tlie nerve-tube, and the light ring around it is an ensheathing insulating cylinder of fatty material {the medullary sheath). These light, circular, dotted spots are sections of medullated nerve- fibres. Each considerable bundle of nerves contains. besides the medullated tubes, a number of non-medul- lated nerve-fibres. The fully-developed medullated nerve-fibre, when fresh and properly prepared, presents the following characteristic structures: the axis-cylinder, the me- dullary sheath, and the sheath of Schwann, or neuri- lemma (Figs. 42-46). a. The axis-cylinder is a finely-fibrillated cord run- ning nearly in the axis of the nerve-tube. It consists of a small bundle of extreme- ly fine unbranched fibrils, held very closely together by an albuminous semifluid cement- substance, which often contains very minute granules ar- ranged in rows between the fibrils, (ft. Fig. 43.) Fig. 42. Fig. 43. Diagram of Stkcictoke of Medoli.ated Nerve-Fjbrf..—1. Neurilemma or sheath of Schwann. 2. Medullary sheath. 3. Axis- cylinder. (Carpenter.) ' FiK. 44. mtw Nerve-Tobes.—a. Nerve-tube of the com- mon European Eel in water. The delicate line on its exterior indicates the neurilem- ma. The dark double-edged inner line is the white substance of Schwann, slightly wrinkled and divided into bevelled seg- ments. 6. The same in ether. Several oil or neurine globules have coalesced in the interior, and others accumulated around the exterior of the tube. The white sub- stance has in part disappeared. Magnified 300 diameters. (Gray.) Axis-cylinders op Nerves. —a. Axis-cylinder, showing its fibrillar structure ; at the upper part, X, X, it is seen to arise from a ganglion-cell, only partially represented, and to become in- closed by a medullary sheath at a', b. Naked axis-cylinder, from the dorsal region of the spinal cord of the Ox. The medullary sheath has been removed. High power. {Strieker.) b. The medullary sheath enveloping the axis-cylinder is not, asformerly supposed, a continuousuninterrupted