HISTOLOGY. 62 termed cement, is thickest at the deep end of tlie root. It gradually thins off toward the neck, until at this locatioa it is lost in the enamel. Dentinal 'pul'p.—The dentinalpvJp consists of an in- tricate reticulum of delicate branched connective-tis- sue corpuscles, with proportionally large and distinct round or oval double-contoured nucleus, and a small amount of cell-body, except that which constitutes the branched processes. Among these processes is a small number of lymphoid corpuscles and delicate connective-tissue fibres. The capillary bloodvessels have an investing cellular sheath just as in the fibrous form of mucous-tissue. Upon the external surfiice of the pulp is placed a double layer of branched columnar and fusiform cells, already alluded to. The cells nearest the pulp are more or less fusiform or stellate, with processes running into the pulp, and a few short lateral branches also, which connect one cell of the row with another. The outer ends of the cells of this row taper off' into a fine long extremity, which passes between the cells of the outer row, and perhaps beyond them into the dentinal canals. Odontoblasts, and dentinal fibres.—-The outer row of columnar cells (so-called odontoblasts) is in contact with the dentine. These cells are more or less club-shaped, with the thick end of the club toward the pulp. The nucleus,which is usually somewhat oval in shape, is in this portion of the cell. The outer end of the club- shaped cell tapers off into a fine, long, somewhat tough, and apparently elastic process (dentinal fibre of Tomes). This long process of the odontoblast passes outward through the dentine, and in doing so freqtiently branches. The general course of the main fibres is straight or slightly wavy, and is perpendicular to the external surface of the dentine. By means of the lateral branches anastomoses are frequently formed with the processes of neighboring odontoblasts. Ac- cording to most recent investigators, the dentinal fibre is surrounded by a thin structureless membrane, the dentinal sheath of Neumann. The interstitial substance between these dentinal sheaths, which latter constitute the dentinal canals, is a dense reticular substance made extremely hard and brittle by infil- tration with the carbonates and phosphates of lime. When a thin plate of dentine is mounted dry the dentinal canals are filled with air, and when examined by transmitted light appear dark, like the canaliculi of bone-corpuscles similarly prepared. According to Klein, the dentinal fibres which lie in the dentinal canals are the processes of the inner row of the double layer of cells covering the pulp, and have no distinct connection with the outer row of odontoblasts. The same author thinks that those processes of the latter which enter the dentine, become calcified to form the interstitial substance betweea the dentinal canals. Nerve-fibres have been traced between the odonto- blasts. Interglobular spaces.—At the outer surface of the dentine the dentinal canals open into what are known as the interglobular spaces (5, Fig. 32). These spaces are bounded on the side of the dentine by more or less globular projections of the ground-substance. They contain branched cor- puscles, apparently similar in every respect to Fig. 32. Section thbough the root of a Molar Tooth.—a. Dentine traversed by its tubuli. b. Nodular layer, a. Cementuin. [Carjje'n.ter.) branched bone-cells. Their branches are continuous with the dentinal fibres, and with branches of cells in neighboring interglobular spaces. Where the dentine is covered with cement, these spaces communicate with adjacent bone-corpuscles, by means of the fine canaliculi of the latter. Beneath the enamel the inter- globular spaces send a few short and irregular blind tubes among the deep ends of the enamel-prisms. Cement (cementum). — T\ie cement, or bony crust around the root of the tooth, presents the laminated ground-substance and the branching corpuscles of bone. Sharpey's fibres are present in small num- bers. In the thickest portions, even Haversian sys- tems Avith their small central canals are sometimes met with. Except in these rare instances of Haver- sian systems, the lamellae are mainly found parallel to the surface of the root. The bone-corpuscles are sometimes unusually large; they possess numerous branched canaliculi, having the ordinary relations and structure of bone-corpusclcs elsewhere, and they in- close typical bone-cells. Enamel. — The enamel of the fully formed and healthy tooth is densely calcified. Seen under a high power, in a thin section vertical to the sur- face, the enamel appears to be formed of closely-