HISTOLOGY. 84 Schwann, ending in and being continuous witti the elastic envelope of the muscle-fibre (Figs. 37 and 5-i). The nerve-fibre, composed of a medullary sheath and axis-cylinder, penetrates the sarcolemma and passes into and is lost in a large flat body, located upon the substance of the muscle-fibre, called the end- plate of Kuhne. Before disappearing in the substance of this end-plate the still medullated fibre may branch and the branches ramify upon the end-plate, each yet retaining its medullated sheath. Where the medul- lary sheath ends, the axis-cylinder spreads out into the surface of the end-plate, and is soon lost to view. The end-plate is usually more or less granular, and sometimes contains a considerable number of oval nuclei. The granular appearance is generally due to the presence of a minute reticulum, which may, per- haps, be continuous with the fibrils of the axis-cylin- der. The nerve-fibrils are not known to pass into the contractile substance of the muscle-fibre. Some authors believe they have seen the branches of the j nerve-fibre extend upon the surface of the sarcous substance beyond the end-plate. Beale denies entirely this mode of ending of the nerves in striped muscles, and substitutes for the end plate of Krause within the sarcolemma a simple net- work of medullated nerve fibres with a number of nuclei in the meshes, claiming that the network rests upon the outside of the sarcolemma. NERVE-CENTRES. The nerve-centres are constituted by gray or vesicular nerve-substance, and ivhite fibrous substance. The latter consists of nerve-fibres in most respects similar to those which have already been described when considering the nerves, but they have no defi- nite neurilemma. The nerve-fibres will, therefore, not occupy particular attention in this place. The former, the gray matter, contains special cells of peculiar form and structure which have been called nerve- or ganglion cells. Neuroglia. — In the cerebro-spinal nerve-centres both nerve-fibres and nerve-cells are found imbedded in a soft finely-granular variety of connective-tissue which has received from Virchow the special name of neuroglia. In the gray substance of the cerebro- spinal centres it is possible, as we shall see below, that the neuroglia may possess peculiarities of func- tion which are probably not common to the neuroglia of the white substance. The neuroglia of the latter consists of a semifluid, homogeneous substance con- taining a network of extremely minute fibrils which are probably of an elastic nature. At occasional in- tervals, among this minute elastic network, are to be seen branched connective-tissue corpuscles whose fine ramifications are in communication with the fine net- work already described. These branched connective- tissue corpuscles are known as neuroglia-cells. Be- tween the medullated nerve-fibres of the white sub- stance the minute fibrils of the neuroglia-network have mainly a longitudinal direction. In the gray substance, the meshes formed by the neuroglia-fibres are extremely minute and are quite irregular and sponge-like. ' In addition to the neu- roglia-network above mentioned, there is superadded a minute network of fine fibrils which are derived from the branching processes of the ganglion nerve- cells present in large numbers in the gray matter—a network difficult, if not impossible, to distinguish from that composed of simple neuroglia-fibres. This has been termed the nervous reticulum of Gerlach. Some investigators add to the neuroglia of the gray substance of the spinal marrow still another nervous reticulum, which derives its minute fibres from a re- peated division, in the posterior portions of the cord, of nerve-fibres from the sensory roots. In this complex neuroglia of the gray substance the vessels, the ganglion-cells with their branches, and a limited number of medullated fibres, are imbedded. Ganglion-cells.—The ganglion-cell is contained with- in a small lymph-space in the neuroglia. It is of an irregular outline more or less closely corresponding to the shape of the cell. The size of the latter is comparatively large, but different ganglion-cells vary widely in their dimensions. Some are relatively of enormous volume. The largest are usually found in the anterior horns of the spinal cord, and in the motor centres of the cerebrum. They also vary greatly in form. Some are oval without processes (apolar); some fusiform with one or more processes at either end (Inpolar); but the majority of them have many branches which may come off at any portion of their surface (rnultijjolar). The body of the ganglion - cell contains an intra - cellular network of fine fibrils. Nearly all the processes of these cells repeatedly branch dichotomously until the resulting; fibres become Fig. 55. Stellate Nerve-cell, from the nucleus cervicis cornu (posterior vesicular column) of a Foetus of six months, showing the minute reticulum formed by the dichoto- mous branching of the processes (nervous reticulum of Gerlach). Magnified 420 diameters. (Car- penter.)