96 HISTOLOGY. o-OO^CXX: the efferent vessels. The meshes of the reticulum of the sinuses, and especially those of the follicles and cylinders, are so packed with lymph-corpuscles that, in sections ordinarily prepared, nothing can be seen but the crowd of cells. In order that the reticula may become visible, it is necessary to gently pencil the sections with a camel's-hair brush or to persist- ently shake them in a fluid medium. When this pro- cedure is successful, a thin section of the medullary portions presents a picture very well reproduced in Fig. 66. The arterioles and venules which communicate with the capillaries of this tissue run in the septa and trabeculje. Reticular tissue (adenoid tissue of His) is a lymphoid tissue which has its perfect type in the structure of the follicles and medullary cylinders of lymph-glands. It is, therefore, unnecessary to describe it more par- ticularly in this place. It is present in a diffuse form in the mucous membrane of the intestine and of other localities. It is met with in serous cavities in the form of patches and cords of variable extent, and it is found in numerous other localities. EXPLANATION OF PLATE XII. Fig. 1. A silver preparation of a pencilled omentum of a Rabbit, showing relations of blood- and lymph-vessels. High power. (After Klein.) A venule filled with blood-corpuscles ; the venule gives off capillary branches ; I, lymphatic capillary, invaginating the bloodvessels, and lined with endothelium, the outlines of which are mapped out by the serrated dark lines ; s', branches of the lymph-vessels in some places communicating with the neighboring lymph-spaces. Fig. 2. Internal tunic of the Human aorta, treated with sil- ver. High power. (After Langhans.) a. Superficial lymph-spaces ; h, deeper lymph-spaces ; both freely intercommunicate, and are separated from one another by the ground-substance, g. Fig. 3. A. From a section of a Guinea-pig's lung, which had been injected with silver nitrate, showing the relations of blood and lymph-vessels. Pligh power, a, Branch of pulmonary artery ; I, lymph-vessel lined with endothelial plates, and in connection w ith the lymph-canali- cular system or inter-alveolar lymph-spaces, c, of the walls of the alveoli. B. Same lung, showing the inter-alveolar lymph-spaces, in surface. (After Klein.)