EPITHELIUM. 41 networks, producing a distinct longitudinal striation, and a slightly granular appearance of the cell. The lumen of the duct has considerable width. In the narrow tubes, into which the duct branches, the epi- thelium is still in a single layer only, but the cells are now much shorter and wider. They may be cubical, or even more flattened. The cells still con- tain networks, but these are neither dense nor arranged so as to produce an apparent striation. In the infundibulum the lining epithelium still pre- serves this more or less flattened form. The lumen of the infundibulum is consequently comparatively wide. As the deep portion of the infundibulum is reached it again slightly narrows to pass into the convoluted tubes. At the same time the character of the lining epithelium again changes. Their cells now become columnar and very slightly granular. They contain a round or oval double-contoured nucleus, which is located near the outer end of the cell, both cell-body and nucleus consisting of a network of fibrils forming comparatively large meshes when the gland is fully developed. When the latter is active, these cells con- tain drops of mucin in their inner portion, and present every characteristic of goblet-cells. When exhausted, they shorten very considerably and become very granular, and consequently somewhat opaque. The lumen of the convoluted tube is characteristically large. The epithelia of these glands rest upon a layer of endothelial or connective-tissue cells which are more or less branched, some of the branches penetrat- ing as septa between the intercellular cement which holds the cells together. Sometimes in the convoluted portion of the glands two, three, or more embryonal cells are found at rare intervals along the course of the tube massed together in thin clumps, and they are always located between the previously described columnar epithelium and the layer of endothelial cells which form the basement- membrane of the tubes. The sublingual gland of man and the submaxillary gland of the dog are mucous glands still larger than those last considered, but they are constructed upon the same general plan with, however, an epithelial lining a little more complicated. In the convoluted portion of the tubes, protoplasmic collections between the mucus-cells and the basement-membrane of stel- late endothelia, somewhat similar to the embryonal cells mentioned as occasionally present in the last- described mucous glands of the mouth, are in these glands very numerous. These protoplasmic masses are more or less crescentic, and have received the name of the crescents of Gianuzzi, after the anatomist 6 who first accurately described them. They are densely granular uni- or poly-nucleated masses without a de- fined membrane, but with projections which fit into the spaces between the epithelial cells with which Fig. 16. SrBMAXiLLART Glaxdof Don.—a. Mucus-ceUs. b. Protoplasm cells. c. Crescents of Gianuzzi. d. Transverse section of excretory duct with its pecu- liar columnar cells. High power. [Utricker.) they are in. contact. In other respects the contents of these compound tubular glands are apparently identical with those of the smaller mucous glands of the mouth. 3. Compound tuhv.lar salivary glands.—-The parotid gland of man is built upon the same plan as is the sublingual so far as the arrangement of the tubes is concerned, but its function is quite different, and so also are the characters of the lining epithelia of the convoluted secreting tubes. The epithelial cells of this portion of the tubes are more or less cubical, and are densely granular and proportionately opaque. They contain a round nucleus located near the base- ment-membrane, and limited by a thin envelope of double contour. The nucleus and cell-body consist of a dense network of fibrils with irregular and small meshes, containing, in the quiescent state, a minimum of fluid substance. During activity, this fluid in- creases very considerably, and distends the meshes, thus causing the cell to become considerably larger and more transparent. Crescents of Gianuzzi are found in these tubes also, but in fewer numbers than in the purely mucous glands. Another distinction between these purely salivary glands and the purely mucous glands is in the diameter and the size of the lumen of the convoluted tube. In the mucous gland the lumen is distinctly recognizable, of considerable size, and is generally patulous, while, on the contrary, in the purely salivary glands it is often doubtful if the