61 TEETH. 111 full process of development. A preparation for the growtli of the permanent teeth is, even at this stage, often to be met with in the shape of an offshoot from Fig. 30. Same, ATA Later Period of Development.—a. Epithelium. 6. Younger layer of epithelium, c. Inferior layer of the epithelium, e. Euamel-organ. /. Den- tine-germ or papilla, g, h. Inner and outer layers of the sacculus that is about to form. (Carpenter.) the epithelial mass already spoken of as the primary enamel-organ. 4, Fig. 31, represents sucli an epithelial Fi-. 31. Vertical Section of the Lower Jaw of a Human Fcetcts, measuring ahout four inches in length, magnified 25 diam. 1. Dental-groove. 2. Remains of the enamel-germ. 3. Enamel-organ of a deciduous tooth, presenting epithelium on both its outer and inner surface, i. e., where it lines the sacculus and where it covers the papilla. 4. Enamel-germ of the permanent tooth. 5. Dentine-germ. 6. Section of inferior maxilla. 7. Meckel's cartilage. The dental sacculus will beobserved to present a number of line papilla opposite the dental papilla;. (Carpenter.) offehoot after the changes in the growth of the milk- tooth have so far progressed that the connection with the enamel-organ of the latter has been severed. Fig. 31 represents a much later stage in the forma- tion of the tooth. The connective-tissue papilla has grown into the enamel-organ until the latter has been completely invaginated. The enamel-organ now covers the apex and sides of the tooth-papilla like a cap, and it has been cut off from its former connec- tion with the epithelial covering of the gum. This cap-shaped epithelial mass is termed the secondary enamel-or(jan. Through the invagination of the epi- thelial mass constituting the enamel-organ, it results that the cap covering the papilla, when seen in section longitudinal to the long axis of the tooth, seems to be formed by three principal layers. The uppermost is composed of a single row of cubical epithelium ; the lowest layer consists of a single row of long cylindri- cal cells; the middle layer is formed of more or less compressed and branched epithelial cells, with a large amount of intercellular cement between them. They contain small oval or spherical nuclei, and, according to some authors, afford with the iatercellular substance an example of mucous-tissue. Klein denies to this layer any other than an epithelial constitution. It is the lowest layer of long columnar or pris- matic epithelial cells which ultimately furnishes the enamel of the tooth. The two upper layers gradu- ally diminish in thickness, and finally form a thin epithelial covering, which is found upon the surface of the enamel when the tooth first makes its appear- ance above the gum (memhrane of Nasmyth). At first the lower layer of enamel-cells is separated from the papilla by a thin elastic membrane, the re- mains of the basement-membrane upon which the epithelium of mucous surfaces is implanted. Later this disappears, when the enamel rests directly upon the dentine, which, as we shall see below, is formed by the papilla. It is still a mooted question whether the enamel of the tooth is secreted by the lower layer of columnar cells, or whether it is the product of a direct transformation of the cells themselves. The dentine of the tooth is formed by the media- tion of a double row of branched fusiform and colum- nar cells, w^hich cover the pulp or papilla. The dental cement.^ or bony incrustation of the den- tine in the root and neck of the tooth, is developed from the fibrous tissue of the dental processes or alveoli. This tissue here has the structure and func- tions of the periosteum of bone. STRUCTURE OF THE TEETH. The fully-developed tooth consists of a crown, neck, and one or more roots, which like the long bones have a central marrow cavity. In this central cavity run the nerves and walls of the vessels. Dentine.—Nearly the whole solid portion of the tooth is formed of a hard, compact, brittle substance called dentine. In the crown, the dentine is covered by a coating of enamel., the hardest substance met with in the human frame. In the neck and roots the den- tine is incrusted by a shell of true bone of varying thickness. This incrustation of bone, technically