NEEVOUS TISSUE. 85 sOO^OOO extremely fine, Avlien tliey form a minute network in the neuroglia—the nervous network of Gerlach above mentioned. Each one of these branching pro- cesses contains a continuation of the intra-cellular Fig. 5G. A Medium-sized Ganqlioh-cem., from the anterior horn of the gray matter of the spinal curd of a Calf, Isolated after a short maceration in serum containing a little iodine in solution. Magnified 600 diameters. Some of the processes (as at b) are abruptly broken off; a is the axis-cylinder process of Deiters. (Strieker.) network, the meshes of which are narrow and greatly elongated in the direction of the length of the process. The fibres of the reticula of the processes spread out in the cell-body, and cause the latter to appear to be crossed in various directions throughout its substance by fine fibrillEe (Fig. 56, and refer also to fig. 2, Plate XL). In the motor areas of the cerebro-spinal system are found large multipolar ganglion nerve-cells, of which one of the processes differs from the previously described branching processes in several respects. In the first place, the process is smaller at its connec.tion with the body of the cell than are the others (a. Fig. 56). Secondly, as the distance from the cell increases, so also the process enlarges, until finally it becomes surrounded by a medullary sheath (a. Fig. 43). This process has been called the axis-cylinder process of Deiters. It has a distinct longitudinal fibrillation. Those branched ganglion nerve-corpuscles which possess an axis-cylinder process of Deiters on the one hand communicate with the motor nerve-fibres through their axis-cylinder process, whilst on the other hand they are united intimately with the nervous reticulum of Gerlach by means of their finely branching processes. Each ganglion-cell con- tains near its central portion a large spherical nucleus limited by a double - contoured membrane, and inclosing sometimes one or more distinct brilliant nucleoli. The nucleus, like the cell-body, is com- posed of an intra-nuclear network in connection with the intercellular reticulum. In the meshes of these reticula is inclosed a soft semifluid substance some- times holding in suspension brownish-yellow pig- ment-granules. As has been already indicated, these ganglion-cells are suspended in lymph-spaces—the pericellular lymph-spaces which sometimes even in health may contain a small number of lymph-cells. The ganglion -cells of the gray matter of the cerebro- spinal centres vary greatly in size, shape, and distri- bution. Gray matter of the spinal cord.—In the spinal cord they are smallest in the posterior portion of the pos- terior gray horns, and are largest in the lateral portion of the anterior horns. Instead of being scattered evenly or irregularly throughout the gray matter of the cord, they are mostly collected into certain well-known groups which extend up and down the cord and form columns of cells. In Fig. 67, three such groups are represented in the anterior horn—the so-called internal, anterior, and lateral groups. It is thought by some authorities that these are the only ganglion-cells of the spinal cord which possess axis- cylinder processes, and a direct connection with medul- lated nerve-fibres. In front of and in the anterior