56 niSTOLOGY, OOO^OOC to the flat branclied cells of loose connective-tissue. This is really the hone-cell. Its structure is identical with that of the connective-tissue corpuscle. It gives off delicate branches which enter and pass some dis- tance along the minute canaliculi. Spongy hone.—The spongy 'portion of hone offers a gross formation quite different from that which we have just studied in the compact tissue. In the latter, the Haversian canals occupy a small area in proportion to that of the intervening ground-substance, and con- tain a minimum of marrow-tissues. In the spongy substance, on the contrary, the bony matter is small in amount compared to the area of the spaces which correspond to the Haversian canals of the compact tissue, but which here are called Haversian spaces. Moreover, the Haversian spaces are filled by a cellu- lar mass, known as the hony marro7v, in which nume- rous bloodvessels with extremely thin and delicate walls ramify. The large Haversian spaces are not surrounded by concentric lamellte, but are separated from each other by more or less delicate trabecule of bone which represent the interstitial and parietal bands of the compact substance, and which have a minute structure identical with them. These bony trabeculo3 form a loose spongy osseous network in the meshes of which rests bone marrow. Marrow of bone.—The marrow of bone is an extreme- ly vascular, cellular tissue which presents two chief varieties, the yellow and the red. The yellow marrow of bone is especially found in the central cavities of the long bones. It consists mainly of fat-vesicles such as are met with in adipose tissue, and it is the fat-cells which give the tissue its yellowish color. Among these adipose vesicles are a variable number of other elements. A few flat, more or less branched connec- tive-tissue cells together with a sparse amount of deli- cate connective-tissue fibres sometimes form thin septa Fig. 26. Cells from the M.uiiiow of bone during their period of development.—a, /j. Multiuuclear " giant cells" (Frey). e,f,ff. Lymiih-colls from the marrow of the til)ia of the Guinea-Pig, examined in the serum of the blood ; c, d, h, after tlie action of alcohol and water 33 per cent. i,J. So-called osteoblasts from tho femur of a new-born Dog, after the action of alcohol 33 per cent. High power. (Banvier.) between the vesicles. There are also in the latter location a small number of cellular elements, which, EXPLANATION OF PLATE V. Fig. I. Transverse section of compact substance of shaft of a long bone of Man. High power. a, The circumferential or peripheral lamellce, whose course is, in the main, parallel to the surface of the bone ; b, the concentric lamellae constituting the Haversian systems, in the centre of which are the Haversian canals, f, g ; another system of lamellas is represented at c, d, the interstitial or intermediate lamellse ; //, bone corpuscles, with tiieir radia- ting canaliculi. Fig. 2. Longitudinal section of similar bony tissue. Same power. a, Haversian canals; c, their walls ; d, bone corpuscles, separated by the bone lamellte, wiiose direction is usually parallel with that of the Haversian vessels. Fig. 3. Some of the bony lamella? from an intermediary or interstitial system, forcibly stripped off after decalcili- cation of the bone, showing the bone corpuscles, and the fibres of Sharpey, c. Fig. 4. Vertical section of the deep layer of ossifying por- tion of a metatarsal bone, showing some of the phases of development of bone from cartilage. High power. (After MuUer.) a, Cartilage cells, arranged in rows, some with shrunken cell bodies ; b, ground substance of the cartilage ; c, medul- lary canal in j)rocess of formation, and containing vessels and medulla cells; d, the remains of the ground substance of the cartilage, covered by a thin layer of newly-formed bone, g ; e, osteoblasts covering the recently formed bone ; /, a bone cell in process of forming a bone corpuscle, still connected with the osteoblastic layer of cells; k, recently developed bone corpuscle, containing a young bone cell; m, a medullary space, from which the contents have been dis- placed.