HISTOLOGY. 80 It seems to be certain that some of the nerves of special sense terminate among epithelial cells. In the Schneiderian membrane the olfactory nerves form a subepithe- lial plexus, fibres from which ter- minate in certain rod-shaped ele- ments {h, Fig. 49), the superficial ends of which reach the surface between the columnar epithelial cells of that membrane. The ter- minations of the optic nerve are conical and rod-like organs, which are imbedded between epithelial cells. The auditory nerves prob- ably have an analogous ending. The gustatory nerve has a pieculiar terminal organ (the taste-bulb) im- planted among the lingual epithe- lium (Fig. 50). In some kinds of connective- tissue, also, sensory nerves seem to end in complicated nervous networks. In the cornea, for ex- ample, besides a superficial subepithelial nerve-plexus, above mentioned, there is also a deep plexus which supplies the posterior lamellas. Fig. 1, Plate X., ac- curately represents (according to Klein) the manner of distribution of the minute beaded fibrillge to a deep stratum of the cornea of a rabbit, a. Is a part of the ground-plexus (or nerve of the first order)—a bundle of interlacing, free nerve-fibrill«, inclosed by an ex- tremely delicate sheath, representing the perineurium. Cells of the Olfac- tory Mucous Membrane. —a,b,c. After Schultze. d, e, f. After Lockhart Clarke. h. Are branches from the ground-plexus (or nerves of the second order) still possessing an investing sheath, but comprising only a small number of fibrils — they also anastomose to form a network, c. Are Fig. 50. GosTATORY Bulbs fro.m the Lateral Gustatory Organ of the Eabbit.— Hifj'li power. (Strieker.) single, minute, beaded fibrils (nerves of the third order), which arise from the network formed by b, and pursue a rectilinear course among the fibrous bundles of the connective-tissue—they unite with fibres of a similar appearance to form a network of rectangular meshes, d. Are nerves of the fourth order, still finer beaded isolated fibrils, which arise from the nerves of the third order, and form a network with very small, irregular meshes. The fibrils of this last minute network frequently appear to be in contact with some part of the surface of the corneal corpus- cles, the analogues of connective-tissue corpuscles. Opinion is evenly divided as to whether this last network is to be regarded as the peripheral termina- tion of these nerve-fibrils, or whether still more EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Represents the distribution of the nerves in the depth of the cornea. Very high power. (Ai'ter Klein.) a, Nerve of the first order; b, nerve of the second order; c, beaded nerve of the tliird order, forming a rectanguhir network ; d, beaded nerve of the fourth order, which forms a network, perhaps upon the surface of the branclied corneal corpuscles, which latter, with their branches (c) and their nuclei, are represented in the figure. Fig. 2. End bulb, h, and medullary nerve, c, d, of tlie con- junctiva of a Calf; a, axis-cylinder termination of the nerve within the bulb. High power. (After Krause.) Fig. 3. Pacinian corpuscle. High power. n, Axis-cylinder of medullary nerve-fibre ; e, termination OF PLATE X. of the sheath of Schwann in the fibrous lamellae, d, of the Pacinian body; a, c, the axis-cylinder; b, its division and termination near the end opposite the entrance of the nerve- fibre. Fig. 4. Distribution of nerves in the wall of a small ai'te- riole. High power. (Arnold.) a, Larger nerve-twigs which branch in'io minute subdivi- sions, some of which, according to Arnold, terminate in the nucleoli or within the nuclei, c, of the smooth muscle-fibres of the tunica media. Fig. 5. Shows the relations of the minute nerves to the walls of a capillary bloodvessel. High power. (After Klein.) A