HISTOLOGY. 66 Fig. 36, gives a vertical view of a transverse disk after the latter has beeu differentiated into its ulti- Fig. 36. Fraombnts of Striped Elementary Fihres, showing a cleavage in opposite direciious. High power. — A. Lonfjitndinal cleavage. Tlic longi- tudinal and transverse lines are both seen. Some longituilinallines are darker and wider than the rest, and are not continuous from end to end. This results from partial separation of the flbrilla;. c. Fibrilla; separated from one another by violence at the broken end of the fibre, and marked by transverse lines. <i' c". Two appearances commonly presented by the separated single fibrillse more hi"hly magnified. At c' the borders aud transverse lines are all perfectly rectilinear, and the included spaces perfectly rectangular. At c" the borders are scalloped and the spaces bead-like. When most distinct and definite, the flbrilla presents the former of those appearances. B. Transverse cleavage. The longitudinal lines are scarcely visible, a. Incomplete fracture following the op- posite surfaces of a disk, which latter stretches across the interval, and retains the two fragments in connection. The edge and surfaces of this disk are seen to be minutely granular, the granules corresponding in size to the thickness of the disk, and to the distance between the faint longitudinal lines. 6. Anotlier disk nearly detached, h'. Detached disk (more highly magnified), shoiving the sarcous elements. {Gray.) mate sarcous elements, by the action of some reagent which has softened or dissolved the interstitial sub- stance between them. Fields of Cohnheim.—If a perfectly fresh and living muscle is frozen, and cut into thin transverse sections, and immediately examined under a high magnifying power, the following appearances are noted : At first the surface of the section is uniformly gray. Very soon the field begins to be mottled. The surface is now everywhere marked by fine brilliant lines which cross each other in such a manner as to form an irregular bright network inclosing darkish-gray areas. The dark-gray areas are the ends of the ultimate sarcous elements or the dark rods seen as above stated when the longitudinal fibrillation becomes apparent. The light lines correspond to sections of the bright substance between the dark rods. Tlie width of the bright lines mottling the gray field gradually increases a little during the obser- vation, while at the same time the dark areas limited by the meshes correspondingly lessen in extent. The dark areas are the so-called fields of Cohnheim. The central object in Fig. 37 very well represents the ap- pearance above described, although it was intended merely to show the manner of termination of a nerve. The dark areas or fields of Cohnheim are dotted with extremely fine points. These are the ends of fine fibrils which can be observed in the sarcous elements when the latter are seen longitudinally under favor- able conditions. Various reagents which effect the Fig. S7. Transverse Section of one of the Muscles of the Thigh of the Laoerta AGiLis (A COMMON EUROPEAN LizARi)), made whilst frozen, and magnified 400 diameters.—N. Nerve of a muscle-fibre which is surrounded by portions of six others, a. Nucleus of the nerve-sheath, h. Nucleus of the sarcolemma. c. Sec- tion of nucleus of terminal plate of nerve, d. Transverse section of terminal plate, surrounded by granular material, e. Transverse section of muscle-nuclei. /. Fine fat-drops. The angular dark particles are sections of groups of sarcous elements. {Carpenter.) death of the constituents of the muscle-fibre cause the sarcous elements to shrink from each other and leave proportionately large spaces between them, v/hich are filled with an interstitial cement-substance —the light network seen in transverse sections, and the light lines observed between the rod-shaped sar- cous elements when the fibre is viewed lengthwise. Sarcolemma, interm/idiate disks, etc.—The muscle- fibre is more or less closely enveloped in a thin, tough, elastic, apparently hyaline sheath—the sarco- lemma. This elastic tube is partitioned across at short, regular intervals by thin plates which are oflshoots from the inner wall of the sarcolemma. Such plates consist of substance somewhat similar to that of the sarcolemma, but are not so tough aud resistant. They cross the tube through the middle of the light or interstitial dislc, and are known as the membranes or intermediate disks of Krause (z, Fig. 38). The intermediate disks of Krause, therefore, divide the tube formed by the sarcolemma into cylindrical sections, placed end to end. Each of these cylindrical sections contains a dark contractile disk, with a half of an interstitial disk above and below, separating it from the intermediate disks of Krause. In each half of the light interstitial disk is frequently found a thin transverse layer of somewhat dark sub- stance which separates into granules when the dark contractile disk shows a division into sarcous ele- ments. This thin layer of dark substance has been