NERVOUS TISSUE. 83 300^0«=>= ■ interlacing fibrils which have no medullary sheath, or sheath of Schwann, but are covered at intervals bj flat cells, which are probably the remains of the nerve-corpuscles belonging to the medullary sheath. FiK. 5.3. MonE3 OF Termination of the Nerves in the Salivary Glands.—1 and 2. Braucliing of the nerves between the salivary ceUs. 3. Termination of the nerve in the nucleus. 4. Union of a ganglion-cell with a salivary cell. 5. Varicose nerve-fibres entering the cylindrical cells of the excretory ducts. (Pflusier.) Such branches communicate with their neighbors to form a plexus—the ground-plexus of Arnold. From this ground-plexus come oft" smaller branches com- posed of small groups of individual fibrils. These smaller branches are still covered by a cellular-sheath. They also unite into a plexus, which envelops the perimysium of primary bundles of smooth fibres—the intermediary plexus of Arnold. The intermediary plexus immediately enveloping the miiscular bundles gives off branches composed of single beaded fibrils, which enter the endomysium and unite to form a deli- cate network surrounding the individual muscle-fibres. Some authors claim that this last network again gives ofi' extremely minute fibrils, which penetrate the muscle-cell and end in the nucleus; others declare the network to be the peripheral termination of these nerve-fibres. Occasionally a few pear-shaped enlarge- ments are met with upon the fine fibrils of this last network. Fig. 4, Plate X., represents, according to Arnold, the nerve-supply of the smooth muscle-fibres in the walls of a small artery. Non-medullated bundles of fibrils, similar to those of the ground-plexus described above for smooth mu.scles, unite to form a ground-plexus in the tunica adventitia. (It should be mentioned here, in passing, that in the nodes of these ground- plexuses of nerves in smooth muscle there are often located one or more cells, which many regard as gan- glion nerve-cells.) This ground plexus gives origin to minute but still compound branches, which them- selves again unite into a more delicate plexus—the intermediary plexus. This last plexus gives off" single fibrils which enter the tunica media, pass between the individual muscle-cells, and unite there to form a fine network. The same difference of opinion exists as in the former case concerning the direct connection of the nerve-fibrils with the nuclei of the muscle-cells. In many places capillary bloodvessels are surrounded by networks of nerve-fibrils, as shown in fig. 5, Plate X. Nerve-endinys in striped muscle.—The termination of motor nerves in strij^ed muscle is peculiar. The nerve-fibres preserve their medullary cylinder and sheath of Schwann until they enter the muscle- fibres. According to the investigations of the most' recent authors, each individual muscle-fibre receives one or more medullated nerve-fibres. The nerve- fibre passes to the muscle-fibre obliquely, and enters the sarcolemma,—the neurilemma, or sheath of r !L!I!!JX!J.!!i'™ Muscular Fihres of Lacerta, with the Terminations op Nerves in End-Plates of Kchne.—a. Seen in profile. P. The nerve end-plates. 8. The base of the plate, consisting of a protoplasmic mass with nuclei, b. The same seen in face, when a perfectly fresh fibre is examined, the nerve-ends probably being still excitable, c. The same as seen two hours after death from poisoning by curare. Highly magnified. (Kiikne.)