58 HISTOLOGY. tinctlj into three layers—the lowest layer or the one forming the line of ossification is more or less opaque, the middle layer is unusually transparent, the upper layer is quite normal in appearance. If a thin piece of the spongy bone and cartilage is shaved oft" and after being properly prepared for examination, is placed under the microscope, the following appear- ances may be noted (see fig. 4, Plate V.). In the upper layer or zone of cartilage, the capsules and in- tercellular ground-substance are normal. In the middle layer, the cells have begun to enlarge and to multiply. Some of them show signs of disintegration, and the spaces which contain the cells have also con- siderably increased in dimensions. The increase is mainly in a direction perpendicular to the line of ossification, and on account of this tendency the cells are applied against each other so as to form linear rows. The intercellular substance is consequently encroached upon and somewhat softened. In the lower zone, the cartilage matrix which re- mains between the now greatly elongated capsules, in consequence of the further enlargement of the latter, is reduced to narrow trabeculas which are infiltrated with calcareous deposits. The enlarged elongated capsules frequently fuse together. They are now in part filled by an embryonal marrow. The cartilage- cells which occupy their upper ends approach a wedge- shape, and are piled upon one another in such a manner that the bases alternate with the spaces as seen at a, fig. 4, Plate V. In a yet lower zone, the linear spaces between the narrow trabecules of cartilage matrix are completely filled with a mass of cells similar in every respect to that of the bony marrow in the Haversian spaces, and they are now permeated by loops of capillary blood- vessels, which are in communication with the vessels of the marrow of the spongy bone below. The thin trabeculjB of cartilaginous matrix, separating these spaces, are still infiltrated with calcareous salts. They are now more or less completely encrusted with a thin layer of osseous substance of variable thickness (see g, fig. 4, Plate V.). This thin osseous incrustation is itself covered by a layer of osteoblasts of a prismatic, ovoid, or some- times slightly-branched outline. Here and there in the thickest points of this incrusting layer of osseous substance an oval-shaped, incompletely-branched bone- corpuscle is visible. By carefully searching along these incrustations pouch-shaped notches are occasionally met with opening upon the surface. These are filled by osteoblastic cells which may be connected with other cells in the osteoblastic layer by broad or narrow branches (see _/, fig. 4, Plate V.). It is thus seen that the bone-cells are osteoblasts which have become in- cluded and completely imbedded in the osseous sub- stance which they have formed around them. In a still lower zone, we recognize the same geiieral features presented by that last described. But the lamellae of bone incrusting the cartilaginous trabeculfe are much thicker, and the cartilage matrix has entirely disappeared in many places. Below this zone, there is no trace of cartilage matrix, and we have only the ordinary structure of spongy bone. The spongy substance thus gradually en- croaches upon the intermediary cartilages until they finally disappear. The line of ossification presents essentially the same features whether the cartilages be intermediary plates between diaphyses and epiphyses, or cartilages which cover articular surfaces. It is then noticeable, that in the growth of spongy bone at the expense of hyaline cartilage, the latter does not really become bone, is not really ossified, but is gradually substituted and replaced by bony substance which is the direct product of some of the cells belonging to the marrow contained in the Haversian spaces of the spongy bone. This latter tissue is more or less directly an outgrowth from the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum. It may be stated in general terms that there is no ossification which does not come either directly or indirectly from the periosteum or from similar mem- branes which represent it. The perichondrium which envelops cartilage as the periosteum does the bone, may be regarded as such a representative, for tiie structure of the one is similar to that of the other, and their functions are parallel. DEVELOPMENT OF BONE. The original development of bone almost always is accomplished through the intermediation of cartilage. The bones of the face, however, and some of those of the cranium, are built directly upon fibrous mem- branes as a foundation. But whether or not cartilage be employed in the process of development, the for- mation of bone always starts from the periosteum. In the embryonal cartilage which nearly always precedes the formation of bone, we have areas where- in certain changes take place preliminary to the de- velopment of bone. These areas have been called points of ossification. When these points of ossifica- tion appear in cartilage we have a development of what has been termed endochondral hone.