75 NEEVOUS TISSUE. nective-tissue corpuscles at some distance from^ a capillary and not in direct communication with it, and thereby influence the formation of hollow protoplasmic tubes, which finally form a connection with the capil- laries. Those connective-tissue corpuscles which take part in the formation of new vessels, Ranvier regards as cells of special function, namely, the formation of vessels. He has called them vasoformative cells. Fig. 41. Various Forms of Mother-cells (so-called vasoformative cells) under- ooiNO development into Bloodvessels, prom the Middle Layer of the Chick's Blastoderm (Klein).—a. Large mother-cells vacuolated, forming the rudiments of vessels, b. Their walls, formed of protoplasm, with nuclei era- bedded and in some cases more or less detached and projecting, d. Blood-cor- puscles. /. Small mother-cells—vacuolation commencing. £. Mother-cell in which only obscure granular matter is found. In the development of new capillary bloodvessels from connective-tissue corpuscles, the elements of the blood are sometimes formed in small numbers, by a process similar to that of the original formation of blood and bloodvessels in the embryo. They may more or less completely fill the channels of the vaso- formative cells, even before a communication is effected with the lumen of a previously-formed capillary. The method of formation of the earliest bloodves- sels in the embryo is essentially identical with that by which a so-called vaso-formative cell of the young or adult animal is transformed into a capillary. The bloodvessels are thus derived from the middle layer of the blastoderm. Arrangement of the bloodvessels.—By branching the arteries diminish in calibre until the arteriole is reached. Tliese, after running a short distance, almost always pass into a capillary network, which in its turn yields its blood to a collecting venule. In a few instances, however, the arterioles discharge their blood into the veins without the intermediation of capillary vessels. This is the case, for example, in the matrix of the nails, and in the ends of the fingers and toes. In the cavernous tissue of the aeiiital oro-ans a similar direct communication between the arteries and veins exists. Like the arteries, the veins also vary their diameter as branches are received. This is not so, however, with the capillaries, whose calibre is neither increased nor lessened by ramifying. The branch is usually of the same size as the capillary from which it receives its blood and the one into which it empties. The distribution of the terminal bloodvessels varies according to the arrangement of the elements of the tissues in which they ramif}-. (Refer to descriptive text accompanying Plate VIII.) NERVOUS TISSUE. The nervous system comprises nerve-centres, pe- ripheral terminations, conducting fibres uniting them, commissural fibres running from centre to centre, and a connective-tissue framework. The whole nervous apparatus has generally been considered under two divisions, the cerebro-spinal system and the sympathetic system. In the cerebro-spinal system we have nerve-centres constituted by nerve ganglia, or gray suhstunce, and conducting fibres, or u-hite substance. From these centres nerves pass to various parts of the economy. CEREBRO-SPIN.\L NEEVES. Nerve-sheath.—Cerebro-spinal nerves, after leaving their centres, are surrounded by a sheath of white fibrous connective-tissue, in which there is a certain amount of j^ellow elastic tissue. At the exterior this fibrous tissue is somewhat denser than ordinary loose connective-tissue, and pre- sents characters very similar to those of the cutis. "Within this denser envelope the fibrous bundles and other elements are arranged in a manner analogous to the loose connective-tissues elsewhere. The arteries and veins of the nerve-trunk ramify in this loose tissue, and the lymph also courses through it. As in other loose connective-tissue, adi- pose vesicles may be found between the fibres. This fibrous tissue is technically known as the epineurhim —a continuation of the dura mata. A cerebro-spinal nerve contains, within the epineurium, one or more bundles of individual nerve - fibres. Immediately around the bundle of the nerve-fibres the connective- tissue of the epineurium becomes condensed into a laminated enveloping membrane—perineurium— a continuation of the arachnoid. Between the lam-