HISTOLOGY. 34 X>O^OOo Derivation of hlood and lymph.—All the foregoing elements in the lymph and in the blood are to be regarded as derivatives immediately or indirectly of the connective-tissues of the organism—descendants from the middle or connective-tissue layer of the blastoderm, or mesoblast. ENDOTHELIUM. We now pass to the consideration, in the endothelia, of another variety of the connective-tissue elements which are widely distributed. They are flat cells, which usually in a single layer are found lining the surface of serous cavities, the inner surface of blood-and lymph-vessels, and the synovial membranes. They consist of a more or less flat cell-plate, of an albumi- nous somewhat elastic substance, and one or more nucleipossessingadouble contoured membrane, amore or less oval outline, and an cxcentric location in the body of the cell. The cell-plate consists of an elastic network of fibrils (the intra-cellular reticulum) in- closing in its meshes a semifluid homogeneous color- less substance. The nucleus also consists of a similar but denser network (the intra-nuclear), holding in its spaces a similar semifluid substance (see c. Fig. 11). Fis- 11. Cells showino the Reticulum i.v the Pkotoplasm and Ncclecs.—a. Co- lumnar epithelial cell provided with cilia, the latter heing prolongations of the intra-cellular network. 6. Nncleus of a glandular epithelial cell from the stomach of a Newt, showing the intra-nuclear network, c. Endothelial cell of the mesentery of a Newt, containing in a hyaline ground-substance a plexus of fine fil>re-hundles — intra-cellular network — in connection with the intra- nuclear network, d. Connective-tissue corpuscle from mesentery of Newt, showing very clearly the intra-cellular network of fibrils and the hyaline ground-substance; the former extends into the branched processes, and is also connected with the more delicate intra-nuclear reticulum, e. Goblet-cell from the stomach of a Newt, showing the intra-cellular network in connection with fibrils of the intra-nuclear network ; the upper part of tlie cell is greatly swollen by mucus. (Klein.) The cell appears to be without a membrane. The nucleus is much flattened when the cell-plate is thin, and causes a prominence corresponding with its loca- tion. Normally the cell-plate is so thin and transparent that its outlines are indistinguishable, the nucleus alone being visible. Neighboring cells are placed nearly in contact by their edges, being separated only by a very small amount of structureless transparent viscid sub- stance which holds them together. This material has been called cement-siihstance {^intercellular cement). When these cells are seen in profile they appear to be more or less linear or spindle-form, the thickness of the spindle corresponding to the nucleus of the cell. After staining with a weak solution of nitrate of sil- ver, the intercellular cement is so darkened that the outline of the cell is made very distinct. It is thus found that endothelial cells have more or less irregular polygonal outlines (consult Fig. 12), and that the Fig. 12. Normal E.Mnn hi-.lii'ai Vi.~ I It A T P i: ir \ nil ir-'T of A 'I'(iAi>, silver-treated and highly niagnilied. {ChajJUKtn.) extent of the cell-plate is extremely variable. In the arteries and larger lymph-vessels the cells are more or less lozenge shape, with the border lines onl}^ slightly wavy. In the veins and lymph-capillaries, the cells are much broader as a rule, and their periph- ery is represented by extremely irregular indented lines (consult figs. 1, 3, Plate XII.). Upon the surface of the serous cavities the outlines of the elastic cell- plates present still another picture, as will be seen by reference to fig. 1, Plate I. Besides variations in the outlines of endothelial cells, there are other dif- ferences which are shown mainly upon serous surfaces In the adult animal the greater part of these surfaces is covered by a single layer of extremely thin, nearly hyaline, and somewhat broad cell-plates. There are, however, limited areas more or less numerous scat- tered here and there upon which the cells offer a very different aspect. They are much narrower, their edges are much less irregular, they are much thicker when seen in profile (approaching a cubical form), are quite granular, and possess two or more nuclei. In fact, they appear to be in a decidedly active state, while, on