HISTOLOGY. 42 convolated tube has a real lumen. It Is at all times so small and generally so plugged witli a substance mucli like the intercellular cement, that some authors have denied the existence of a true lumen in this portion of the tube, and have claimed that the small intercellular spaces act the part of a duct for the secretions. In the submaxillary gland of man we have presented a large compound tubular gland still more compli- cated than either the large purely salivary, as tlie parotid, or the large purely mucous, like the sublin- gual, for in this gland the functions and the structure of the two latter seem to be united in one. It is a compound tubular gland of mixed function — the secretion of a salivary fluid and the excretion of mucus, and it combines more or less intimately and perfectly the anatomy of each. Some of the lobules of the gland are composed of convoluted tubules, which possess an entirely salivary character, while others present a purely mucous structure and func- tion. Further, even in the same lobule, some of the convoluted tubes may possess the one character, while others represent the other variety. 4. Gastric glands.—In the stomach are two varieties of compound tubular glands, which possess an epithe- lial lining presenting peculiarities somewhat different from the preceding. In looking at the mucous surfice of the stomach with a good magnifying hand-lens, immense numbers of minute holes can be seen. They are generally collected together in groups of three to five or more. These small holes are orifices of the ducts of glands occupying the thickness of the mucosa. They have been called peptic glands. They are constructed upon the model of the compound tubular gland. They consist of a common duct with a wide lumen. The surface of the mucous membrane of the stomach is covered by a single layer of columnar epithelia. During digestion many of these cells elaborate and discharge mucus, and in doing so assume the form of goblet-cells. Columnar cells, identical in appearance with those of the mucous surface, line in a single layer the walls of these ducts. Near the middle of the thickness of the rete mucosa the ducts suddenly narrow and divide into two or more smaller branches, which immediately become constricted, to form the neck or intermediary portion of the secreting tube. The neck of the secreting tube is lined by a continuation of the epithelium in the duct, but the cells are much shorter. Immediately outside of the latter, and between them and the basement-membrane, are scattered here and there single cells of a very granular aspect containing a round or oval nucleus, both cell and nucleus being more or less flattened. They consist of an intra-cellu- lar and an intra-nuclear network, and have been called by some authors ^^ep^'c cells (Figs. 17, 18). They do Fig. 17. Fis. 18. Peptic Gastric Glands.—a. Com- moa dnct. S, h. Its chief branches. 0. Terminal cieca with splieroidal gland or peptic cells. (Carpenter.) Portion op one op the C^c^ op a Peptic Gastric Gi.and moke highlv M AciNiFiEi): seen longitudinally at A; transversely at B. a. Bascnjent-mem- hrane. b. Large glandular or peptic cell. c. Small epithelial cells sur- rouudiug the lumen. {Ciirpenter.) not constitute a continuous layer. They are more closely aggregated in the neck and upper portion of the secreting tube than towards the fundus, although they are also present in the deepest end of the tube. The secreting tubes into which the large duct divides are somewhat wavy in their course. They are often quite curved at their ctecal extremities. After the ccmstriction of the neck they gradually increase in diameter until the deep end of the tube is reached. As the tube widens the lining epithelium lengthens, still, however, leaving a distinct lumen for the passage of the mucous secretion. The cells of the fundus contain a spherical nucleus in the outer end of the cell, and an intra-cellular and intra-nuclear network whose meshes do not, however, present a linear ar- rangement such as is seen in the cells which line the neck of the secreting tubes and the common duct. Between the epithelia upon the surfsice of the gastric mucous membrane is a scant reticulum of branched connective-tissue or endothelial cells. Similar cells and their processes also penetrate the intercellular cement of the whole epithelial lining of the peptic glands.