43 HISTOLOGY. ^lOO^OOc cells may be miugled with tbem. They may thus be formed of aggregations of cells, in which case several nuclei may be visible within them. The anastomosing branches appear to be sections of the primary or secondary cell-plates and their lateral ramifications. The clear spaces constituting the meshes formed by the previously mentioned anastomoses correspond to transverse sections of bundles of fibrils which have not taken the staining. Besides the fixed cells above described, leucocytes or wandering cells are found in small numbers in the lymph spaces of the connective-tissue. Elastic fibres.— When tendons are thoroughly boiled the white fibrous tissue which constitutes them is dis- solved, and the other elements previously mentioned disappear. The more complete this effect of boiling, the more visible becomes a network formed of single highly refracting elastic fibres. These elastic fibres are very small in diameter, are more or less perfectly cylindrical, are branched at intervals, and are appa- rently homogeneous. Their branches unite to form a network, whose meshes are long and narrow, the long diameter of the meshes being parallel with the axis of the tendon bundles which they accompany. These elastic fibres are in contact with the sheath which envelops the pri- mary bundles more or less completely. They are so difficult to be seen that unless they are specially pre- pared they are generally invisible. In aponeuroses, where the fibrous bandies are arranged so as to form thin lamellte of considerable width, the fibres of a given lamella run parallel with each other, and are crossed at an angle by those of the lamella next above or below. In many such lamellar fibrous-tissues, the fibres in adjoining lamellfe cross at right angles. The tendon-cells are then found to be much more irregularly formed than in the simplest variety of tendon. In the adult these cells are not so frequently arranged in rows as in the simple tendons, and the secondary plates which spring from the body of the cell may then have a direction corresponding to that of the different fibrous bundles with which they are in contact. Loose connective-tissue.—In the loose connective-tis- sue, for example the subcutaneous cellular-tissue so called, the bundles of fibrils run in every conceivable direction, sometimes branching and forming frequent anastomoses. The spaces left between the fibrous bundles are generally large, and they freely inter- communicate. Fluid or air injected into them readily passes from one to another. After having been dis- tended by air and dried, they present the appearance to the naked eye of large cells or vesicles, hence the name of cellular-tissue. Some of the bundles of fibres are ensheathed as already mentioned, many of them are not. The fixed cells of the connective-tissue are not very numerous in adult tissue of this kind. They are loosely applied to the surface of one or more bundles, frequently at their points of crossing (see fig. 3, PI. IX). The wandering lymphoid cells are much more numerous in this form of connective-tissue than in the tendons or aponeuroses. Yellow elastic fibres are also to be met with. Here they-are frequently much larger than in tendon, but they bear much the same relations to the fibrous bundles in the one case as in the other. The larger elastic fibres have been found by some investigators to be enveloped by a thin, dense membrane, which in most locations is extremely difficult to demonstrate. In the loose subarachnoid connective-tissues of the brain, and in some other locations, this investing sheath is quite distinct. This variety of fibrous tissue may exist in the form of a thin, fenestrated membrane. Some portions of the omentum furnish an example of such, the fenestras in this case representing the dilated lymph-spaces exist- ing between the bundles of fibrous tissue. It is thought by some authors (Axel Key and Eetzius) that many of the loose connective-tissues are composed of scant felt-works of fibroiis bundles spread out in many superimposed lamellae, which are more or less sepa- rated from each other by a single layer of flat endo- thelial cells resting upon one side of an extremely thin, structureless elastic membrane. Dense connective-tissue.—The dense felts of white fibrous tissue, as, for example, those of the true skin, of the dura mater, etc., are essentially identical in structure to the loose felts of the subcutaneous con- nective-tissue, of the submucous-tissue, and of the interstitial connective-tissue of muscles, and of glands. The fibrous bundles being now much more closely packed together, the lymph-spaces are consequently smaller. The cellular elements are also present in much smaller numbers. Bloodvessels.—The bloodvessels supplying this form of connective-tissue have much the same character as in the fibrous variety of mucous or gelatinous- tissue already described. There are two other varieties of white fibrous con- nective-tissue, namely, the neuroglia and the reticular., or lymphoid tissue, which wall be briefly considered when we study respectively the nervous system and the lymphatic system.