NEEVOUS TISSUE. 87 OOO^OOO Fig. 58. puscles; and the fifth (5) is a layer of fusiform corpuscles. "The different parts of the same hemisphere are connected, first, hy the numerous inter- communicating processes of the cells, and second, by a system of arcuate-fibres (m, Fig. 58) of different lengths lying imme- diately inside the cortex." Lockhart Clarice differs some- what from Meynert in his de- scription of the general cortex of the cerebrum. He recognizes seve7i layers, and describes them as follows .•—- " Most of the convolutions, when properly examined, may be seen to consist of at least seven distinct and concentric layers of nervous substance, which are alternately paler and darker from the circumference to the centre. The laminated structure is most strongly marked at the extremity of the posterior lobe. In this situa- tion all the nerve-cells are small, but differ considerably in shape, and are much more abundant in some layers than in others. In the suj^erjicial layer, which is pale, they are round, oval, fusiform, and angular, but not numerous. The second and darker layer is densely crowded with cells of a similar kind, in company with others that are pyriform and pyra- midal, and lie with their tapering ends either to- wards the surface or parallel with it, in connection with fibres which run in correspondil:ig directions. The broader ends of the pyramidal cells give off'two, three, four, or more processes, which run partly through the white axis of the convolution, and in part horizontally along the plane of the layer, to be continuous, like those at the opposite ends of the cells, with nerve-fibres running in different directions. The third layer is of a much paler color. It is crossed, however, at right angles by narrow and elongated groups of small cells and nuclei of the same general appearance as those of the preceding layer. These groups are separated from each other by bundles of fibres, radiating towards the surface from the central white axis of the convolution, and together with them Tkansparent Section of a FuEKow OF THE Third Cen- tral CONTOLUTION OF MaN. Moderately magraified. 1. Lay- er of scattered snjaU cortical corpuscles. 2. Layer of close- set, small, pyramidal, cortical corpuscles. 3. Laypr of large pyramidal corpuscles. 4. Layer of small, close-set, irregularly shaped, cortical corpuscles (granule-like for- mations). 5. Layer of fusiform cortical corpuscles, to. Me- dullary layer. {Meynert.) form a beautiful fanlike structure. The fourth layer also contains elongated groups of small cells and nuclei, radiating at right angles to its plane; but the groups are broader, more regular, and, together with the bundles of fibres between them, present a more distinctly fanlike structure. The fifth layer is again paler and somewhat white. It contains, however, cells and nuclei which have a general resemblance to those of the preceding layers, but they exhibit only a faintly radiating arrangement. The sixth and most internal layer is reddish gray. It not only abounds in cells like those already described, but contains others that are rather larger. It is only here and there the cells are collected into elongated groups, which give the appearance of radiations. On its under side it gradually blends with the central white axis of the convolution, into which its cells are scat- tered for some distance. " The seventh layer is the central white stem or axis of the convolution. On every side it gives oft" bundles of fibres, Avhich diverge in all dii'ections, and in a fanlike manner towards the surface, through the several gray layers. As they pass between the elon- gated and radiating groups of cells in the inner gray layers, some of them become continuous with the processes of the cells in the same section or plane, but others bend round and run horizontally, both in a transverse and longitudinal direction (in reference to the course of the entire convolution), and with various degrees of obliquity. While the bundles themselves are by this means reduced in size, their component fibres become finer in proportion as they traverse the layers towards the surface, in conse- quence, apparently, of branches which they give off" to be connected with cells in their course. Those which reach the outer gray layer are reduced to the finest dimensions, and form a close network with which the nuclei and cells are in connection. " Besides these fibres which diverge from the central white axis of the convolution, another set, springing from the same source, converge or rather curve inwards from opposite sides, to form arches along some of the gray layers. These arciform fibres run in different planes—transversely, obliquely, and longitudinally—and appear to be partly continuous with those of the diverging set which bend round, as already stated, to follow a similar course. All these fibres establish an infinite number of communications in every direction, between different parts of each convolution, between diff'erent convolutions, and be- tween these and the central white substance." The cerebro-spinal nerve-centres are enveloped by