44 III S T O L O G Y. ^>oo^oo<= an infolding of cutaneous surface, the arrangement of the various elements is essentially the same as upon the surface of the skin. The sheath of the hair- is composed of an inner and an outer portion. The outer portion is a continuation of the rete mucosum of the skin, and consists of epithelial cells identical in struc- ture and arrangement with those of the normal rete mucosum (/;, fig. 1, Plate II.). Interspersed among these epithelia is a small number of branched proto- plasmic cells, in every way similar to those upon the surface of the derma. Internal to the cells correspond- ing to the rete macosum of the skin is the inner sheath (c, fig. 2, Plate II.). It is composed of two strata of transparent cells, the innermost stratum containing elements with a visible nucleus. Both cell and nucleus are somewhat ovoid in shape, while the cells of the outermost stratum are destitute of nuclei. The latter are, perhaps, a continuation of the cells of the stratum granulosum of the surface, although they contain no granules. Within the innermost sheath, is the axial shaft or hair proper, itself covered with a very thin cuticle (e, fig. 2, Plate II.). The cuticle consists of a single imbricated layer of thin epithelial scales without visible nuclei (c, fig. 1, Plate II.). The hair-shaft comprises two portions when seen trans- versely, viz., a cortical cylinder and a medullary axis. With its investing cuticle, the shaft, except in and near the hair-bulb at the root of the hair, consists entirely of extremely thin corneous epithelial scales without a vestige of nuclei. They are so densely packed together, that it is impossible, even after mechanical dissociation, to distinguish the outlines of the cells. After the action of sulphuric or nitric acid upon them, the intercellular cement-substance is dis- solved, when the thin scales can be readily separated by means of needles, and their characters demon- strated (fig. 4, Plate II.). The corneous cells of the shaft represent, therefore, the stratum corneum ot the epidermis. Some of the minute interstices between the corneous scales may contain particles of fatty matter or pigment-granules. The greater or lesser abundance of the latter determine the light or dark color of the hair. Some of these minute capillary spaces may contain air. When many of them are filled with air, and at the same time the pigment par- ticles, previously mentioned, are present only in small numbers or are entirely absent, the hair presents a glistening silvery aspect. The medullary or axial portion of the shaft consists of an irregular aggrega- tion of shrunken epithelia of an original form more or less polygonal. These shrunken angular cells some- times contain pigment-granules, sometimes minute vacuoles filled with air, and the same gaseous sub- stance generally fills the interstices between the shrunken cells. The medullary axis of the hair-shaft, no matter what the color of the cortical cylinder may be, shines through the latter, presenting a lighter and more glistening appearance. The foregoing characters of the hair are commonly observed in those portions above the bulb or root of adult hair. As the bottom of the follicle is reached, the distinctions between the inner and outer sheath become lost in the general embryonal character of the epithelium. The hair-shaft is now also changed both in shape and in the character of the constituent ele- ments. It expands into a bulb-shaped extremity a little above the bottom of the follicle. The cuticle covering this hulb is composed of slightly granular epi- thelia containing distinct nuclei. At the bottom of the follicle these cells are more or less spherical, but they flatten and their size and the distinctness of their nuclei lessen gradually from below upwards, as can be seen by reference to the figure already indicated, until, above the bulb, the nucleus is lost entirely, and the cell is converted into the thin transparent cuticu- lar plates or scales already mentioned. The two portions of the hair-shaft also present in the root an aspect entirely difierent from that of the outermost end. For a slight distance above the bulb the cells of the cortical cylinder are less corneous and they contain a trace of a nucleus. As the bulb is approached, the epithelia of this cylinder gradually increase in thickness, while their nuclei also become larger and more defined. In the bulb itself, the epi- thelial cells present the characteristics of the most superficial cells of the rete mucosum. A vascular connective-tissue papilla springs from the bottom of the hair-follicle and penetrates the centre of the hair-bulb. On the sides, it is ensheathed by the cellular accumulation which is continuous above with the corneous cortical cylinder of the hair- shaft. Above this papilla is a mass of epithelial cells, similar to those of the cortical part of the bulb, Avhich is continuous Avith the shrunken irregular corneous cells of the medulla or axis of the shaft. These medullary cells of the bulb pass by slow gradations from below upwards into the irregular corneous cells already described as existing in the axis of the hair, but they still present distinct nuclei at a level much higher than that of the bulb. The papilla seems to be the main source of the vitality and growth of the hair. Destruction and rerjeneration of epithelium.-—The various investing epithelia, of the cutaneous surfaces