40 HISTOLOGY. epithelium, and tlie probable ultimate destruction and desquamation of the cell. During the progress of gastric digestion, these goblet-shaped columnar cells are to be found in great numbers upon the mucous coat of the stomach. The epithelial cells of the mucous membranes, like those of the skin, are slightly separated, yet closely and firmly held together by an intercellular cement. According to the investigations of some authors (Klein among others), foreign particles placed upon the surfaces of mucous membranes are absorbed mainly, if not exclusively, by means of the intercel- lular cement-substance, which, at the surface of the fibrous tissue, is in direct communication with the superficial lymph-spaces of the connective-tissue. Even in the intestines the minute particles of the chyle, according to Klein, are not taken up by the columnar cells, and thence passed into the radicles of the lacteals, but they enter the intercellular cement, which reaches the free surface, and pass along this until they reach the lacteal capillaries. GLANDULAR KPITHELIUM. Under this caption we consider cells of widely- varying function and location. As a rule, they have an embryonal derivation similar to that of the invest- ing epithelium, upon which the ducts of their glands empty. In fact, they commonly begin to develop at an early period of intra-uterine life by epithelial buds, which project from the deepest layers of this investing epithelium into the subepithelial connective- tissue. Glands of mucous membranes.—The epithelial glands, which open upon the surface of mucous membranes, seem to be constructed upon two general plans, if we are to judge from the nature of their lining epithelium. The various forms of these glands seem to be only modifications of two models. 1. Simple tubular mucous (jlands.—Th.e simplest kind of epithelial gland is, perhaps, the crypt or follicle of Lieberkiihn. It usually presents the form of a small tube, closed at the deep extremity by a ca^cal end, and opening at the other upon the surface of the intestinal canal. The cells, lining the tube in a single layer, are apparently identical in structure and form to the columnar epithelium of the surface. They are short, cubical, or columnar cells, wliich possess a spherical or oval nucleus, with a thin, double-contoured limiting membrane. The gland- tube is iTSually single, but sometimes may be branched in its deep extremity. The deeper por- tion of the gland is frequently slightly larger in diameter than is the upper portion or neck of the gland. In the wider portion the cells are longer. The columnar cells consist of a .network, which is denser in the nucleus than in the cell-body. The fibres of the reticulum have a general direction parallel with the long axis of the columnar cell, namely, perpendicular to the wall of the tube. They are separated from the latter by a thin, flat, sometimes branched, endothelial cell, and separated from their neighbor-cells by a small amount of cement-substance, into which sometimes branches of the endothelial cells above mentioned may project. The free end of the columnar cell may contain a drop of mucus, I when it constitutes what has already been described as the goblet-cell. The chief, if not, indeed, the only function of these cells is the secretion of mucus, and the gland itself may be regarded as the simplest form of a mucous gland. The cells in the quiescent state are smaller, and apparently more granular than when the cell is actively forming and excreting mucus. At no time, however, during health, is the cell coarsely or densely granular. It is to be remarked also that the longitudinal striation of the cell—an appearance in itself due to the prevalent longitudi- nal direction of the meshes of the intra-cellular and intra-nuclear reticula—is somewhat more marked in the neck, and at the orifice of the gland, than in its fundus. Besides the foregoing characteristics, these purely mucous tubular glands possess a distinct lumen.throughout their length. 2. Compound tubular mucous (/lands.—In the mucous glands of the mouth we have an example of a com- pound tubular gland, whose chief function is the ex- cretion of mucus. Here we have not only a modifi- cation of the form of the simple tubular gland, but there is also a complication of the lining of the tubes. Some of the largest of these glands may be taken as a type for description. Each gland consists of a large duct, funnel-shaped at its mouth. The duct passes more or less obliquely through the mucosa. Eeaching the submucous tissue it divides into a number of smaller tubular branches, each of which soon slightly enlarges to form an infundibulum. Very soon the infundi- bulum again narrows, and passes into the secreting portion of the tube, which, after turning irregularly in numerous convolutions, ends in a cascal extremity. In man, the funnel-shaped mouth of the duct has a lining of stratified pavement epithelium. At a slight depth, however, the epithelial lining of the duct is seen to consist of a single layer of long, nanow columnar cells, with intra-cellular and intra-nuclear