HISTOLOGY. 90 axis-cylinders contained wiiliin a delicate perineural sheath. The cells are within the perineurium and among the nerve-fibrils with some of which they are continuous. The smallest groups and isolated cells Fig. 62. Bipolar GAuaLioNic Cells and Nerve-fibres from the Ganolion op Fifth Pair in the Lamprey. {Frey.) are also sometimes situated in the ground-plexus, but , they are frequently located at the nodal points of the smaller compound bundles of free axis-cylinders. These ganglion-cells are found to present the same general characters as those of the large sympathetic ganglia, and need not be more particularly dwelt upon. They are very frequently loaded with dark pigment-granules. THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. The lymphatic is the most extensive system of the organism, and one of the most important. It is mainly by the way of the lymph that the nutritive supply from the blood ultimately reaches the mor- phological elements of the tissues, for only a very small proportion of the latter are brought into direct contact with the blood-capillaries. There is a con- stant exudation of the fluids of the blood through the delicate walls of its vessels into the neighboring lymph-spaces, and there is an incessant flow from the latter towards the collecting trunks of the lymphatic system. It is entirely by the overflow from the blood that the tissues of the body are irrigated. In comparison to the velocity of the blood, the lymph- current is extremely sluggish. It is impelled princi- pally by a vis d tergo—the slow oozing from the blood- vessels caused by the centrifugal pressure upon their walls through the impetuous rush of the blood-tor- rent. It is aided by the pressure of surrounding parts in movement, and to some extent also by the action of muscle-fibres which sometimes appertain to the lymphatic system. This broad though sluggish stream has been very aptly denominated a supplement of the blood-circulation. The lymph flows in channels which are variously related to each other, and to the different components of the organism. Their structure and their relations to each other will be first considered. The lymph-passages comprise large and small trunks, into which capillaries empty, and which, in their turn, receive lymph from the adjacent inter- stices of the tissues, the latter being either small lymph-spaces, as the lymph canalicular system of von Eecklinghausen, or large lymph-cavities like the peritoneal, the pleural, the pericardial, the arachnoid, etc. Along the course of the lymph-current are in- terposed numerous aggregations of a peculiar reticular tissue. The most complex arrangement of this pecu- liar tissue into special organs is found in the so-called compound lymphatic glands, such as those of the axilla, the groin, the mesentery. Large lymph-vessels.—The largest lymphatic trunks consist of a wall of some thickness and complexity of structure. This wall is very similar to that of veins. It is composed of three coats—an external, middle, and internal, which are respectively known as the tunica adventitia, the tunica media, the tunica intima. The internal coat is very thin and delicate, consisting of an inner layer of endothelial plates similar to those of veins; of an external layer of longitudinal connec- tive fibres and a few elastic fibres; and of a middle layer of a few stellate, flattened corpuscles. The tunica media contains a few circular, smooth muscular fibres. The tunica adventitia is composed of a feeble network, mainly longitudinal, of fibrous bundles in- terspersed with a few elastic fibres, also united into a network. Vasa vasorum and nervee vasorum run in the tunica adventitia, and ramify in the tunica media. Small lymph-vessels.—The smaller trunks have ex- tremely delicate walls; the latter are reduced to a simple endothelial lining of the lymph-channel. By their wall simply they are often not distinguishable from the lymph-capillaries. When empty, in conse- quence of the flabbiness of their walls, they are com- pletely collaps3d, and their cross-section appears as a mere slit in the tissues. When distended, these smaller lymphatic trunks are more or less cylindrical in form. Valves.—Lymphatic trunks are distinguished by the presence of valves at frequent intervals. The valves often constitute the only distinction between