31 BLOOD. -fOO^OOO Human Bi.ood-globui.es.— a, seen from the surface ; b, from tlie side; c, united in rouleaux ; d, rendered spheri- cal by water; e, decolorized by the same; /, blood-glo- bules shrunk by evaporation. (Gray.) intense when tlic disk is seen in profile. The colored corpuscle consists of three principal parts: the stroma, the fluid contents, and the coloring matter. Accord- ing to some late investigators, the body of the colored blood-corpuscle is composed of a fine felt-work of minute fibrillaj (h, Fig. 1) of an albuminoid material, holding in its meshes a soft semifluid substance. The latter holds more or less closely united with it the coloring matter of the corpuscle, a substance which has been named liemoglohin. The weight of authority seems to incline to the opinion that the corpuscle is membraneless. The red disk is naturally elas- tic, capable of assuming any form which a moderate pres- sure may require, and of re- turning again to its original shape when the pressure is removed. Many experienced and accurate observers declare that they have seen it manifest limited con- tractile power. But most writers assert that it is incapable of any other than passive movements, re- garding it as a more or less inert body, the altered remains of a once complete cell. The red disks of human blood, when the latter is freshly drawn and spread out upon a glass slide for microscopic examination, frequently show a marked tendency to apply themselves one against the other by their broad surfaces to form rows similar to rou- leaux of coins—a phenomenon the cause of which is unknown. Alterations of the red corjyuscles.—The colored cor- puscle of man may experience various alterations of form and composition, which are. purely physical or chemical, in contradistinction to amoeboid or vital movements. Water causes them to swell, to lose their bi-convex discoid shape and become more or less spherical, and to discharge their coloring matter into the surround- ing plasma—which latter is now uniformly stained, while the corpuscle is apparently structureless, color- less, and sharply outlined. Many solutions of salts of less density than that of the blood have much the same action upon the red corpuscles. On the contrary, when the density of the blood- plasma or of the artificial serum in which the colored corpuscles are examined is increased either by slow evaporation or by other means, the surface of the cor- puscles, which is notably smooth, becomes wrinkled; subsequently, little prickles or spines appear all over the surface of the elements; finally, the corpuscles be- come more or less globular in form and diminished in diameter, retaining the Avhile their prickly appear- ance. They are then known as crenated corpuscles. A few of this kind of cells are met with in nearly every specimen of blood. The addition of water causes them to swell and their spines to disappear, but they retain the spherical form. Carbonic acid causes the bi-concave disks to swell. When acting npon the crenate corpuscles, it causes the spines to disappear and the corpuscles to partly resume their former con- cave appearance. The action of this gas is generally not sufficient to effect a return of the concave surface upon both sides, but the corpuscle is made to assume a saucer shape. A strong electric current first causes the red disks to become crenate and spherical ; afterwards the cor- puscles swell and lose their color. Bile causes the red globules at first to become pale; after that they suddenly disappear, leaving no trace. Urea causes the red disks to become globular, but does not effect a decoloration. Upon the surface of the corpuscle there are formed little drops of matter apparently entirely similar to the body of the cell, which are united with each other and with the body of the corpuscle by fine filaments. The addition of tannic acid in sufficient amount to a portion of blood causes the hemoglobin to sepa- rate more or less completely from the body of the corpuscle and to form globular projections upon the surface, of the characteristic color. Rapid desiccation of a thin film of blood, spread out on a glass slide, very perfectly preserves the form and dimensions of colored corpuscles. When blood is raised to a temperature near 134° F., the globules begin to lose their discoid form, and to assume a spherical shape. At the same time little buds make their appearance upon the surface of the corpuscle, united to it and to each other by fine fila- ments. When the temperature reaches 158° F. the globules become decolored and broken up into small transparent spheres of very unequal size. Cold causes a dissolution of the hemoglobin, and an effect similar to that of water. Blood-crystals. — When extravasated into the tis- sues, colored corpuscles disintegrate by breaking into minute portions, the coloring matter of which finally is transform.ed into brown pigment-granules, known as heraatin. Besides these granules of pigment, such extravasations may contain crystalline needles of a reddish-brown color—/ier/i«i!o'i'c/m-crystals. But the characteristic crystals of the blood are those of liema-