THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 95 ooogocxs follicular sinuses, thence througli the medullary sinuses into the collecting trunks which empty into the efierent vessels emerging from the hilus. The flow of the lymph through these sinuses is greatly impeded by innumerable fine fibres united into a network which crosses the space from the follicles to the septa in the cortical region, and from the medullary cylinders to the trabeculfe in the medullary portion (e. Fig. 6d). The fibres of this Portion of the Meoum.ary Substance of the Mesenteric Gland of an Ox.—The artery injected with chromate of lead. Highly magnified, a. Medul- lary cylinder with capillary network, flue reticulum of connective-tissue, and a few lymiih-corpuscles. h, b. Superficial lymph-path or medullary sinus tra- versed everywhere by a reticulum of nucleated cells. This reticulum has been represented only at c, with numerous anastomosing prolongations. The lymph- corpuscles have for the most part been removed with a camel's-hair brush. d, d. Trabecula;, composed almost exclusively of unstriped muscular tissue. A small medullary cord or bridge, containing a bloodvessel and numerous lymph-corpuscles, is shown at the left of the figure as springing from the me- dullary cylinder. (Strieker.) reticulum are hyaline, and present every variation in shape from the flattened band to the cylinder. At their nodal points they slightly enlarge, and very frequently a flattened oval nucleus is seen at these enlargements. The reticulum consequently appears to be formed by a network of large stellate cells re- sembling branched ccranective-tissue corpuscles. Bat in the adult tissue this is an illusion. The nuclei be- long to flat endothelial plates which closely invest the fibres of the reticulum. Every part of the surface of the lymph-sinuses above described is lined with a complete layer of endothelial plates. They cover the reticular partitions as well as the septa and trabeculse on the one side, and the surface of the follicles and cylinders on the other. Each of the coarse meshes of this reticulum in the lymph-sinus contains two or more lymph-corpuscles which quite fill it. The cortical follicles and the medullary cylinders have the same constitution. They consist of a reticulum of a construction very similar to that of the lymph-sinuses. But the fibres which form it are very much more delicate, and the meshes are much smaller. At some of the nodal points of this reticulum a flattened ovoid nucleus may be seen. As in the former case, these flattened nuclei belong to endo- thelial plates resting upon the fibres. In the follicles and cylinders, however, the surfaces of the reticulum are not completely covered with endothelial cells. The small meshes of this reticulum are closely packed with one, two, or more lymph-corpuscles which are usually of the smallest size, consisting of a large round nucleus surrounded by a minimum amount of cell-protoplasm. They are supposed to be young developing lymph-cells. The fine reticulum of the follicles and cylinders is permeated by a rich network of capillary blood- vessels (Fig. 65). The walls of these capillaries are enveloped by and connected with the fibres of the reticulum (fig. 6, Plate VI.). Besides a lymph-current in the sinuses from the afferent towards the efferent vessels, there is also a current in the follicles and cylinders setting outwards from the blood-capillaries towards the surrounding perifollicular and pericylindrical sinuses. The latter current, aided by the amoeboid movements of the cells, washes the lymph-corpuscles from the follicles Fia;. 66. 1. Reticci.ar TisstTE, from a lymphoid follicle of the vermiform appendi.K of the rabbit, with the system of meshes, and remains of the lymph-cells n. Most of the latter have been removed artificially- b. Lymph-vessel. 2. Longitudinal section of a Lieberkiihn's gland, showing the surrounding retic- ular tissue. In the meshes of this are seen the lymph-cells a. b. Lumen of a vessel, c. Lumen of the gland. (Frty.) and cylinders out into the surrounding sinuses, and the current in the latter finally carries the cells into