HISTOLOGY. 68 ^>oo^ooo of another. In this way an anastomosis of the branched muscle-fibres is formed. When heart- An'astomOsInq Mcscf.E-FiBKES OF THE HEART, seen in a longitudinal section. On the right the limits of the sejiaratc cells with their nuclei are exhibited somewhat diatrrammatically. {Gray.) muscle is cut transverse to the direction of the muscle-fibres, instead of the cross-section of the fibre presenting a circular outline, as in ordinary striped muscle, it is often elongated. This is the case when the cut has passed through the body of the fibre uear the point where it branches. Becauae of the extreme shortness of the branched muscle-fibres almost every one of them in the cross-section is seen to contain near its centre a muscle-corpuscle. Termination of musclefiJ>res. — As has already been mentioned, each individual muscle-fibre termi- nates in a tapering conical extremity. Whether these extremities end in tendon, or in the depth or body of the muscle, in the endoinysium between the muscle-fibres of the primary bundles, they are at- tached to connective-tissue fibres (<, 2, fig. 1, Plate VI.). It seems to be still unsettled exactly how this connection is established. Unless the tissue is especially prepared for exami- nation, the longitudinal fibrillge appear to be directly continuous at their extremity with the connective- fibres, and the one seems to pass insensibly into the other. Perhaps such a simple connection may really exist in many instances; but it is probable that, in most cases, where muscle is inserted into tendon, there is a different mode of communication. The sarco- lemma probably continues withoutinterruption around the conical end of the muscle-fibre, and at this point is attached by its external surface to the bundles of fibrous tissue which form the tendon. Whether the EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Tlie appearances of striated muscle-fibres after varied treatment. Modei'ate power. (Fi-ey.) 1. A muscle-fibre (m) ruptured at n, showing tlie slieath or sarcolemma partly emptied and twisted. 2. The end of a muscle-fibre from tiie biceps of Man, in ; a fibrous bundle, t, of the interstitial connective-tissue is attadied to its pointed extremity. 3. A Human muscle-fibre after prolonged treatment with liydrochloric acid. It can now be readily split up into transverse disks, n, nucleus of muscle-corpuscles. 4. A muscle-fibre from the leg of a Frog after protracted treatment with dilute hydrochloric acid. From the cut end, very fine fibres, upon which minute granules are distrib- uted, are seen projecting. Fig. 2. Transverse section of Human biceps. High power. (After Frey.) OT, Muscle-fibres, cut across ; v, a section of a bloodvessel; c, a fat vesicle in the interstitial connective-tissue. Fig. 3. Fragment of sartorius muscle of" a Frog. High power. (After Ranvier.) n. Nuclei of muscle-corpuscles, seen partly in face. OF PLATE VI. Fig. 4. Muscle-bundle of the dorsal fin of the Hippocampus (ii fisii commonly known as tlie sea-horse), showing method of attachment of the fibrous bundle of the tendon. High power. (After Ranvier.) m, Muscle-fibres; at t they are attached to the tendon- fibres through the intermediation of a double-contoured membrane, which is continuous with the elastic sheath (n) of the bundle. Fig. 5. Highly-magnified capillary bloodvessel, after injec- tion witli a weak solution of nitrate of silver, and sub- sequent staining with picrocarminate of ammonia. The dark lines mark out the boundaries of the endothelial cells forming the wall of the vessel; the nuclei are also distinctly seen. (Ranvier.) Fig. G. SIiows a capillary bloodvessel, surrounded by and attached to the fibres of the reticular tissue. (Ran- vier.) f, The capillary; r, the reticular fibres; n, nuclei of flat endothelial cells upon the reticular fibres.