55 BONE OE OSSEOUS TISSUE. larj. The ground-substance is dense and compact, as at the boundary of the medullary canal of long bones, and at the periphery of both long and flat bones; or, on the other hand, it is porous or spongy, as in tbe diploe of flat bones, in the interior of epi- physes, and between the outer and inner compact layers of the diaphyses of long bones. Compact hone.—The ground-substance of compact bone is hard and brittle, owing to its infiltration with salts of lime, which in the fluids of the body are ordi- narily insoluble. They are, however, readily dissolved by the employment of acids. After decalcification through this means, bone may readily be cut into thin sections and stained. Thin plates of the hard, brittle bone, may also be obtained by grinding. A transverse section of the compact substance of the shaft of a long bone prepared by the latter method, and mounted dry, presents an appearance, when ex- amined under a high power of the microscope, which is very fairly represented by fig. 1, Plate V. Haversian canals.—The ground-substance is per- meated by a number of small canals, the Haversian canals, which have a general direction mainly parallel with the axis of the shaft. They intercommunicate by means of short transverse or oblique branches, thus forming a network of elongated, and more or less rectangular meshes. The Haversian canals con- vey a capillary bloodvessel and one or more lymph- vessels, besides a variable amount of delicate, loose connective-tissue of a reticular variety, inclosing cel- lular elements,—a tissue essentially identical with the bony marrow which fills the Haversian spaces of spongy bone. Arrangement of hony lameUue.—-Between the Ha- versian canals of compact bone the (jround-suhstance is arranged in the following manner: Immediately around the canal the bony fibrous tissue shows from four to fifteen or twenty concentric laynellse, the number varying according to the age of the formation. The greater the age the more numerous are the concentric lamellae. The Haversian canals, with their surround- ing concentric lamellfe, are known as ilioHaversian sys- tems. Between, and separating the Haversian systems, the ground-substance is constituted by what have been termed the interstitial lamellae. They comprise bands of osseous substance of variable width, running in various directions. Among these interstitial lamellae of variable direction are some bands of lamellae which pursue a course in general parallel to the periosteal surface of the bone. These are known as the j)arietal larnellds. Eunning among the interstitial and the parietal lamellas are sometimes found a small number of scattered elastic fibres which are very difficult to demonstrate. Interlacing with the parietal and inter- stitial lamellae are found a few small bundles whose basis is white fibrous tissue, and whose direction is more or less perpendicular to that of the lamellae which they penetrate (see fig. 3, Plate V.). They are called 'perforatintj fibres, or fibres of Sharpey, and are supposed to be the remains of bundles of white fibrous tissue originally forming a part of the inner layer of the periosteum, for at the periphery of the bone similar fibres are continuous with fibrous bun- dles belonging to the inner layer of that covering. In flat bones or in thin bony plates, the compact substance presents essentially the same features. The arrangement of the Haversian systems, however, is by no means so regular as in the diaphyses of long bones. Bone corpuscles.—Between the bony lamellae of these different systems are numbers of Zz/mj^A-spoces, inwhich lay connective-tissue corpuscles, just as in other forms of lamellar fibrous tissue. These lymph-spaces and their cellular contents constitute the so-called hone- corpuscles. Each lymph-space is in communication Avith its neighbors by means of minute canaliculi, the branches of the so-called bone-corpuscle. These canaliculi penetrate the bone lamellae, and pass through them, usually nearly perpendicular to the direction of the latter. When a thin preparation of compact bone is made by grinding, and the thin plate is mounted dry, these lymph-spaces and their canalicular branches are filled with air, and by trans- mitted light consequently appear dark upon a light ground. In Haversian systems cut transversely, the body of the bone-corpuscle is seen in profile, and consequently presents an ovoid or fusiform outline, the long axis being parallel with the course of the la- mellae. The canalicular branches, n:iore or less straight, and running perpendicular to the length of the con- centric lamellas, give to the Haversian systems a beautiful striated aspect, the fine striae radiating from the Haversian canal as a centre. In the interstitial and parietal lamellae the canaliculi produce a visible transverse striation. The canaliculi, besides forming an intercommunication between the lymph-spaces of the ground-substance, also bring them into connection with the lymph-vessels of the Haversian canals. When a so-called bone-corpuscle with its canalicular branches is isolated from the surrounding bony sub- stance in which it is imbedded, and is properly treated, it is found to consist of an elastic shell form- ing a branched lymph-space. Within this branched lymph-space floats a flat connective-tissue cell similar