20 INTEODUCTION. oo-o^oo^ study of liutnan anatomy as a braucli of general knowledge. FcETAL Anatomy, or Embeyology, treats of the origin and formation of the organs in the embryo. As it is naturally considered in connection with the physiological anatomy of the organs of generation, it is often included under the head of Physiology. Descriptive A NATOMY.—Its divisions are as fol- lows :— The Bones, or Osteology. " Joints, or Arthrology. " Muscles, or Myology. " Bloodvessels, or Angeiology. " Viscera, or Splanchnology. " Nerves, or Neurology. " Special Senses. ANATOMICAL NOMENCLATURE. In this book the word distal (following Barclay) will be understood to refer to a point away from the centre of the body ; and the word proximal to a point toward the centre. For example, the trochlea of the humerus is at the distal extremity of the bone, while the head is at the proximal extremity. The word central also refers to a portion of a nerve or vessel which is connected with the centre of the system to which the part treated of belongs. The remaining portion, as opposed to the central, is called peripheral. In the case of the bloodvessels the central end is often spoken of as cardiac. "When the axis of the body or a limb is understood, the words median and lateral are often used in de- scribing parts. Median means near or related to the axis (median line). Lateral means near or related to the surface or periphery, as distinct from median. "Inner" and " outer," "internal" and "external," are words very generally employed in the same sense as median and lateral. Tliey are less exact, however, since they are also used to denote a central in opposi- tion to a peripheral part, as in the contents of a section. Median and lateral are synonymous with visceral (splanchnic) and parietal, in describing surfaces of the pleura, pericardium, peritoneum, etc. A longitudinal section is a section cut parallel to the longitudinal axis of the body or limb. It may be made from before backward, when it is called the sagittal section (vertico-longitudinal), because it is parallel to the sagittaV suture of the cranium; or it may be made from side to side, when it is called frontal (vertico-transverse), because it is parallel to the frontal suture of the cranium.^ The frontal section is, of 1 The terms sagittal and frontal are in general use among Ger- man writers. That they relate to the disposition of the cranial sutures is an assumption of the writer. He cannot give the au- thority for their first employment. course, perpendicular to the sagittal section. Some writers restrict the term longitudinal to the sagittal section, in which case the frontal becomes to it a dex- tro-sinistral transverse. It is in this sense that Charcot uses the latter term. The frontal section of the cra- nium and contents becomes a true transverse section of the brain, owing to the angulation of the brain with the axis of the trunk. But a frontal section of the spinal cord is a longitudinal section, since it is parallel to the axis of the trunk. With the exercise of a little care in the use of these terms, no confusion need occur. A transverse section is a section cut perpendicular to the longitudinal axis. Thus a transverse section of a limb is perpendicular to the axis of the limb. A vertical section can be opposed only to a trans- verse as the author defines the word, and may include botli the frontal and the sagittal. The term should be restricted to sections made with direct reference to the study in which the vertical position of the part is of importance. The term horizontal is sometimes used to express a section made parallel to the plane on which the organ or approximate parts rest. Thus, one can speak of a horizontal section of the brain and of a horizontal semicircular canal, because these are parallel (or ap- proximately so) to the plane of the base of the skull. In a transverse section of the parts confined in that portion of the trunk, neck, or head which contains the large vessels Owen has named the structures in relation to the position of the central nervous system and aorta. Let it be supposed that it is desired to describe the parts in a transverse section of the thorax; then the structures uhove the body of the vci'tebra be- come neural, and those beloiv the body become hemal, since the former are near the central nervous system as expressed here in the section, and the latter are near the aorta. In the same way the section of the