EPITHELIUM. 39 =00^000—■ The cellular covering of the mucous membrane of the oral cavity is, therefore, to be regarded as a strati- fied pavernent of squamous epithelium. This is the character and arrangement of the epitbelium of the lower part of the pharynx, of the oesophagus, the edges of the epiglottis and of the true vocal cords, of the anus, of the intra-vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, of the vagina and vulva, of the glans penis and prepuce, and of the anterior third of the nasal cavity. The pulmonary alveoli are lined by a single, some- times interrupted layer of squamous epithelium, hav- ing a histogenetic origin similar to that of the epithe- lium of the bronchi. In the olfactory region of the nasal cavities, in the ui)per portion of the pharynx, in the larynx, trachea, and bronchi, the cellular investment consists of a stratift,ed coluvinar ciliated epithelium. In the Fallo- pian tubes and in the fundus uteri and extra-vaginal portion of the cervix uteri, the mucous membrane is covered by a single layer of ciliated columnar epithe- lium. The internal surface of the stomach and intes- tines is lined by a simpde columnar epithelium. Sivjplecolumnar epithelium.—The columnar epithelial cell, when it presents one of its ends upon a free sur- face, usually is limited at that end by a thin plate of cf)nsiderable stiffness, which seen edge-wise, as when the cell is viewed in profile, appears like a brilliant band. In the simple columnar cells of the intestinal canal, under favorable conditions, this brilliant baud seems to be vertically striated (see Fig. 15). By violence the thin limiting plate is often partially or completely detached from the end of the cell. Frequently the cell possesses a ver}^ delicate limiting mem- brane, which, however, is probably only a con- densed film of the body of the cell. The colum- nar cell is somewhat soft and pliable, and may, therefore, readily assume shapes imposed upon it by pressure. It is rarely absolutely co- lumnar; it is frequently more nearly conical. Often its deep end divides into two or more short thick branches (see p, fig. 3, Plate I.). It is provided with Section of a Vit.Mis of a Rabbit, fur- nishing examples of non-ciliateil colum- nar epithelium. High power. (Strieker.) a nucleus which is oval or more or less rod-shaped possesses a thin membrane of double contour, and generally one or more distinct nucleoli. The nucleus is usually located near the deep extremity of the cell. The body of the cell is composed of a network of fibrils, whose meshes have a decided .linear shape, mainly parallel with a long axis of the cell. The nucleus also contains a network which, like the nuclei of other cells, is denser than that of the cell-body. The finely granular appearance of the cells is due to the existence of this reticulum. The semifluid mate- rial contained in the meshes of the reticulum may vary in amount, and cause the interfibrillar spaces to increase more or less in extent, thus increasing or lessening thereby the granular aspect of the whole or a part of the cell. Ciliated columnar epithelium.—The ciliated colura- nar epithelium is essentially similar in structure to the simple columnar cell. It differs from the latter only by the presence of a number of fine cilia or hairs vertically attached to the thin plate at the free ex- tremity of the cell (see (/, fig. 3, Plate I.). These cilia pass through the thin limiting plate and are directly attached to the fibres of the intra-cellular reticulum (see o, Fig. 11). During the life and the activity of the cell the cilia are in more or less vigor- ous vibratile motion, and those agents which excite or retard movements in the amoeboid corpuscles have the same action upon the movements of the cilia. In stratified ciliated columnar epithelial coverings, the ciliated columnar cells constitute the superficial layer. They are usually present in a single row. Be- tween and below the deep extremities of these ciliated cells are a greater or lesser number of spindle-form and more or less irregular polyhedral epithelial cells. These are usually membraneless, and contain one or more spherical nuclei, the minute structure of the cell being reticular. Scattered here and there among the columnar and other cells are a few soft granular membraneless bodies, sometimes fusiform, sometimes branched, apparently similar to the analogous cells mentioned under the cutaneous epithelium (see e, fig. 5, Plate I.). Gohlet-cells.—Some of the columnar cells, whether ciliated or not, may become distended and distorted with a collection of mucus near the free end. Such cells are known as goblet-cells (see e, Fig. 11). The nucleus is generally pressed aside and crowded into the deep end of the cell. If the accumulation of the mucus continue, the thin limiting plate is broken or detached, an occurrence which results in the dis- charge of mucous di'ops upon the free surface of the