18 IN TROD CTION. receive proper attention. Accordingly, the typical description of each organ will be followed by a brief statement of " variations." In the second place, the physician demands a knowledge of the relations of the parts. This information it is necessary to possess in performing operations and in explaining signs or symptoms. Anatomical relations may be interpreted to be the mutual disposition of those parts which occupy the same neighborhood. The local value of relation has been enforced by the surgeon whose accurate know- ledge of each special region is held by him to be of great importance; but the general practitioner cannot appreciate the necessity of keeping np ever refresh- ened impressions of these regions. The anatomical relations he needs are determined at the examination of the sick, or at the autops}'. While parts in a given region may hold both surgical and medical rela- tions, this need not of necessity be the case. In many instances the medical relations involve parts remote from one another and separated by one or more topographical regions. The former will receive the name of the toiwjraphiail or the direct relation; and the latter the clinical or the indirect relation. In the third place, the physician needs some account of the uses of the organs. This subject overlaps physiological anatomy. That much only will be succinctly given as may be said properly to illustrate the subject from an anatomical point of view, and at the same time to be free from controversy. In the fourth place, the physician must have a true conception of the nature and general behavior of morbid processes, and of the manner in which such processes are modified by locality. His comprehension of the changes due to diseased action in a given place must be fairly proportional to his knowledge of the normal anatomy of that place. This subject, which will receive tlie name of localization of diseased action., will be illustrated for the most part by concise statc- ments of recorded cases, in which the essential feature of each case will be emphasized and the bearing it has on the subject treated of clearly shown. The material in these sections is capable of being used by the student in two ways: first, in bringing forcibly to his mind the value of the facts themselves, since cases similar to those quoted may occur to himself after graduation; and, secondly, in lightening the task of remembering important though otherwise un- inviting details. In a word, anatomy may thus be made—what unfortunately it rarely is—an interesting study. In presenting anatomical features in explanation of given lesions, or of signs, or symptoms, care has been taken to give the sources of the statements made. It is hoped that the original papers or volumes con- taining such statements will be consulted whenever this is practicable. May not a yet more important use be made of these cases? May not a series of such abridgments be available in assisting the practitioner in detect- ing the significance of obscure conditions in relation to which the underlying facts are anatomical ? Should these questions be answered affirmatively, this book, it is hoped, will take a place among the physician's volumes of daily reference. In order to assist in the attainment of this object a copious index of diseases and injuries, in addition to the index of subjects, will be appended. Among other matters, the book will be found to contain an elaborate description of the tissues; an ac- count of the normal development of the body; a section on the nature and varieties of monstrosities; a section on the method of conducting post-mortem examina- tions; and a section on the study of the superficies of the body taken as a guide to the position of the deeper structures. These will appear in their appropriate places, duly subordinated to the design of presenting a text essentially anatomical.