MUSCLE, 63 Kraogjooc packed striie, whose direction in general radiates from the pulp-cavity as a centre. In certain spots these radiating strife are crossed by less distinct lines running mainly parallel to the surface of the enamel (transverse striae). Besides these fine striations, there are often two, three, or more narrow, faint, darkish stripes {parallel stripes of Retzius) of considerable length ; they exhibit a slightly undulating course, and, as a rule, run parallel to the enamel-surface. The sigaiflcance of these stripes is not fully under- stood. They may, perhaps, represent the division be- tween successive deposits of enamel. The places at which transverse stria3 are seen crossing the radiating striie, contain enamel-fibres running in opposite direc- tions. A minute description of the radiating strise will suffice for both. They consist of long prisms or cylinders of calcified enamel-cells. When seen in transverse section these enamel-prisms appear more or less regularly hexagonal in outline (a. Fig. 33). In longitudinal section after maceration in hydrochloric acid, the enamel-prisms present the appearance rep- resented in B, Fig, 33. At regular intervals the transparent hyaline-substance of the prism is seen to be crossed by extremely minute lines. A further maceration in the acid results in the breaking up of Fis. 33. DiAQSAMMATic REPRESENTATION OF THE Structuke OP ENAMEL.—A. Trans- verse section of enamel, showintr the hexagonal form of its prisms, b. Sepa- rated prisms seen lengtliwise. {Garj^entar.) tlie prism into as many somewhat culncal sections as there are areas occupied by these minute cross-lines. These prisms are separated from each other by a small amount of cement-substance. When the enamel begins to form, the enamel-cells lengthen towards the dentine. The lengthened portion soon becomes cal- cified, the calcareous deposit first appearing at the sides of the prism, or in the intercellular cement. After the calcification of the newly-formed end of the columnar enamel-cell has measurably progressed, the dentinal end of the cell again lengthens, and this new portion of the cell is in its turn calcified. This process repeats itself, until the original columnar enamel-cell is much lengthened, and the whole is gradually converted into successive sections of the enamel-prism. It is this successive periodic trans- formation of the enamel-cell into calcified prisms which gives to the latter the peculiar appearance shown in B, Fig. 33. MUSCLE. Muscular tissue comprises two general varieties, unstriped or smooth, and striated. The elements of this tissue are derived from the mcsoblast, and are well supj)lied with capillary vessels and nerves. SMOOTH OR UNSTRIPED MUSCF.E. This variety of muscular tissue is composed of spindle or fusiform cells, whose transverse diameter is usually small in proportion to the length of the long axis of the cell. These cells arc soft, and are often more or less prismatic from mutual pressure. They may occur more or less isolated, but are usually collected into bun- dles. The cells constituting the bundles are closely packed together, the spindle extremity of one cell fitting between the bellies of two or more. These closely - packed muscle - cells are slightly separated from each other by a small amount of intercellular cement, appa- rently similar to that which unites the cells of epithelial surfaces. In this albuminous intercellular cement are often found a small number of flat, connective-tissue cells, more or less branched, and some- times a very few scattered, de licate connective fibres. This intercellular material corresponds to the endomysium of striped muscles. Arrangement and distrihution of smooth mitscle- fihres.—The muscular bundles thus composed are sep- arated by a variable quantity of ordinary loose con- nective-tissue—an analogue of the perimysium sur- rounding bundles of striped muscles. The bundles of smooth muscles may anastomose with each other so as to form a regular muscular network. Such a muscular network may be spread out with a fenes- trated layer. Frequently the bundles are placed side S.MooTn OR Unstriped Muscu- I.AR-FlBRE-CELLS FROMARTERI E3 [Human].—1. From the popliteal artery. A, without, B, with acetic acid. 2. From a branch of the anterior tibial; a, rod- shaped nuclei of the fibres. Mag- nified 3j0 diamters. (Gray.)