EPITHELIUM. 37 oc^O^OOc one surface of the cell than to the other. This intra- nuclear network is in connection with an intra-cellular network, which is in part imbedded in the elastic cell- plate, but it at some points extends beyond the edge of this plate to form more or less branched processes (see c?, Fig. 11), which attach themselves to the adja- cent tibrous bundles, or to the processes of other branches or of other cells. Instead of presenting this simple form, secondary cell-plates may spring from the primary body arid send oft" processes, when the connective-tissue corpuscle becomes a very complex affair. Yet it essentially consists of a thin elastic plate similar to that of the fiat tendon-cell already described, and can be classed in the same category. These fixed cells of the connective-tissues are believed by some accomplislied histologists to be capable of limited vital movements during health. It is undeniable that under the influence of irrita- ticm they can, and often do, return to an active state, when they may put forth all the powers of the amoe- boid lymph-corpuscle. EPITHELIUM. With this subject we come to the study of a class of elements possessing an ancestry and functions totally different from those of the minute forms previously considered. The cutaneous epithelia are the representatives of the epiblast, or the upper layer of the blastoderm. On the other hand, the epithelial cells of the intestinal canal spring from the lower layer, or the hypoblast of the blastoderm of the embryo. THE EPITHELIUM OF THE SKIN. Spinous cells.—The cellular elements covering the skin aftbrd several varieties of investing epithelium. In the rete mucosum the epithelial cell is soft, appa- rently granular, membraneless, and polyhedral from mutual pressure. It is constituted by a cell-body, and generally only one spherical vesicular nucleus. The cell-body consists of a network of fibrils holding in its meshes a semifluid, hyaline substance. The nucleus also is formed of a network, and an inter- fibrillar substance, and is limited by a double-con- toured membrane. There are also in the nucleus often one or more small granules (nucleoli), the remains of a hyaline, albuminoid material, from which the nucleus was originally developed. The periphery of these soft membraneless cells of the rete mucosum is furnished with small prickles or spines (see c, fig. 2, Plate I.), which are frequently wanting on the peri- phery of neighboring cells. These s'pinous cells have been called by various names, such as the dentate-cell, the prickle-cell, and the riff-cell. Adjacent cells are effectually held together by the union of their spines, and by a viscid cement substance (intercellular cement) similar to that above mentioned for the endothelium. During irritation this cement substance increases in amount but lessens in viscidity. The lines of separation between the cells then become quite dis- tinct. Fig. 2, Plate I., presents a very truthful picture of the relations which these cells bear to each other. The deepest of the rete-cells, namely those in con- tact with the fibrous tissue of the cutis, are more or less columnar, or rather conical in form. The large ends abut against the polyhedral rete-cells previously mentioned, while the small ends fit accurately into indentations of the papillary layer of the derm. In the dark-skinned races, these columnar cells are more or less pigmented. /Stratum granulosum., and stratum, lucidum.-—The outermost layer of the rete-cells is covered with a thin lamina of flattened, intensely granular cells, forming a layer about two cells deep, the granular layer of Langerhans (see Fig, 13). Immediately external to the thin granular layer is a second, which has received the name of the stratum lucidum of Schrcin. This laver is of slight thickness, the cells are transparent and hyaline, and occasionally exhibit nuclei. Cor7ieous layer.—Placed upon the stratum lucidum are the most superficial cells of the cutaneous epi- thelium. The}' are all converted into dense, corneous 2-)late.s, with no trace of their reticular or nuclear structure remaining. They form a layer of variable thickness in different locations—the stratum corneum, or corneous layer. The outermost cells of the rete mucosum, or rete Malpighii, have lost their regularly polyhedral form, and have become somewhat flattened, so that m a vertical section of the skin they are seen in profile, and appear more or less spindle-shaped. The cells of the granular layer are still more flat. Those of the stratum lucidum have been flattened into mere scales, which, seen in profile, look like interrupted lines. In the cutaneous epithelium we have, there- fore, five varieties of epithelial cells, named from below upwards as follows: the columnar, granular, spinous, lucida, and corneus. Among the soft, mem- braneless, polyhedral cells of the rete mucosum are, according to some late investigators, a few spindle- form, or stellate nucleated cells, whose branching pro- cesses run in the intercellular cement-substance, and