THE CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SYSTEM. 45 ooO§§ooc and of the mucous surfaces as well, seem to undergo a constant destruction and regeneration. Desquama- tion is constant upon the external surfaces, and it seems also to be a common altliougli less rapidly occurring phenomenon upon the mucous surfaces. This constant loss of cells must be fully compen- sated by an active new formation of elements. It is generally conceded that the new supply of cells must come from the layer corresponding to the rete muco- sum in the stratified epithelial coverings. Whether these new cells are produced by a proliferation of the soft finely granular polyhedral epithelial cells of the rete mucosum, or whether they arise from the wandering cells which are always present in greater or lesser numbers in the epithelial coverings, or whether they are in part derived in both ways, in- vestigators have not entirely determined. Many up- hold one of tho extreme opinions, while some defend the middle ground. It is quite certain that under the influence of irri- tation not only do the rete cells proliferate, but even those which have begun to approach the corneous condition return to the embryonal state, or exhibit other evidences of an awakened formative power. Under such a stimulus, some of the cells may contain an endogenous progeny. Such a condition is fre- quently met with in and around tumors, and upon epithelial surfaces secreting pus. The regeneration upon granulating surfaces of epi- thelium, or its new formation over abrasions, seems in some way to be more or less closely related to the action of previously existing epithelial cells. The newly formed epithelium is almost always connected directly with the old epithelium at the edges of the wound. If a large abraded surface be sprinkled freely with epithelial scales, isolated islands of newly formed epithelia, which exhibit no direct connection with the epithelium at the edges, may after some time make their appearance. Skin-(jraftin(j.—One means of healing extensive granulating surfaces is, by the employment of skin- grafts. This method is in some respects essentially identical with that of dusting the surface with epithe- lial scales. In both instances, the presence of epithe- lium seems to affect the granulation-cells in a peculiar manner, and cause the latter to develop into epithelia. There seems to be an infection of the granular cells by the epithelia, or, so to .speak, an "action of presence" of the epithelial scales, which is shown in the tendency of the embryonal cells acted upon to form epithelium rather than connective-tissue. THE CONNECTIYE-TISSUE SYSTEM. Having reviewed some of the numerous cellular elements which in part constitute the human organ- ism, we now enter upon the consideration of the histological relation which they bear to other consti- tuents. We have already studied the lymph and the blood—tissues which from their derivation may be classed as congeners of connective-tissue. The connective-tissue, in one form or another, be- sides special offices which it may perform in the human economy, acts as the framework upon v.'hich and within whicli the various elements and organs are sup[)orted. Upon it rests the investing epithe- lium. In it are imbedded the glands, the muscles, the vessels, and the nerves. The great connective-tissue system comprises the following groups of tissue, which will be examined in the order in which they are here enumerated : Mucous- Tissue; Varieties of Connective-Tissue, properly so called — Cartilage, Bone, Dentine, and Cementum; Muscle, Nerve, and the Connective-Tissue exhibited in the Bloodvessels and Lymphatics. MUCOUS- OR GELATIKOUS-TISSUE. In the human adult this form of tissue is of ex- tremely limited distribution. It is found in the vitreous humor of the eye, and perhaps in the enamel- organ of the teeth. In the embryo it is very exten- sive. It presents two general varieties, which are distinguished by the character of the cellular ele- ments, and the intercellular substance Avhich sur- rounds them. The simplest form of mucous- or gelatinous-tissue is that represented by the vitreous humor of the eye. It consists of a transparent, colorless, gelatinous semi- fluid substance, which contains a more or less con- siderable quantity of mucin, or of a substance which has a very similar reaction. It is precipitated b^^ weak acids in the form of minute granules, which then give to this semifluid ground-substance under the microscope a finely granular aspect and a slight opacity when viewed by the naked eye. Imbedded in this gelatinous semifluid ground-substance, cellular elements are present in more or less considerable numbers, according to the age of the subject and the quiescent state of the tissue. In the adult they are scattered at rare intervals. These cells are lymphoid elements of more or less spherical or oval outline.