NERVOUS TISSUE. 79 OOO^OOO Fig. 48. to time the axis-cylinder splits up into branches, which, by farther division, become so small as to be composed of an extremely small number of fibrils loosely bunched together. In these minute divisions of the axis-cylinder the neurilemma ultimately dis- appears, and the only remains of the original en- velopes of the medullary nerve-fibre are a few flattened connective-tissue cells which at scattered points wrap more or less completely around the small bundles of nerve-fibrils. By this time the nerve-fibrils have become beaded (fig. 2, Plate IX.). After the axis- cylinder has lost its medullary sheath and has branched in the manner above indicated, the nerve- fibrils are frequently collected again into delicate fibrillar bundles to form networks. Notwithstand- ing these numerous ramifications and anastomoses of collections of minute nerve-fibrils, it is believed that an individual fibril itself never divides. Fibres of Remah.—Attention has thus far been called to three different forms of nerve-fibre. It is now proposed to consider a fourth variety—the gray or gelatinous fibre or the fibre of Eemak. This does not sensibly differ froni a variety of medul- lary fibre already described, namely, the one which has lost its medullary sheath, and is composed simply of neuri- lemma, nerve-corpuscle, and axis-cylinder. In the cerebro-spinal nerves the medullated fibres greatly preponderate over the non- medullated or gelatinoid fibres. In the sympathetic nerves this order is usually, although not always, reversed, and the medullated nerves are frequently finer than in the cerebro-spinal nerves. In nerves of a mixed character the sympathetic fibres may run in a bundle by themselves or they may be indiscriminately mixed with the other fibres. Of the medullated nerves, the sensory fibres, as a rule, retain their medullated sheath longer than do the motor fibres. PERIPHERAL TERMINATIONS OF NERVES. This subject may be considered under two general heads: «, the peripheral termination of sensory nerves; and, b, those of motor nerves. a A Small Nerve-Branth FROM THE STMPATHETIC OF A Mammal.-—d. Two dark-tor- dL^red nerve-tubes among a number of Remak's fibres, b. (.Prey.) a. Peripheral terminations of sensory nerves.—As has been already indicated, the smallest microscopic medullated nerve consists of a perineurium sur- rounding a bundle of nerve-fibres. Some fibres lose the medullated sheath earlier than others. When the nerve is very near its termination, usually the medullary cylinder and the neurilemma disappear from all the fibres within the investing perineurium. The fibrils of the different axis-cylinders, being now more free than before, interlace in such a manner that the nerve-bundle appears much like a longitudi- nal network of fibrils collected into a cord. In the skin and mucous membranes, near the surface, and in many other locations, these non-medullated branches ramify and unite into a plexus; each limb of the plexus, even when it comprises not more than two nerve-fibrils, is still invested by a delicate mem- brane which is the representative of the perineurium. Along the course of these ramifications, and especially at the nodal points of the plexus, are a few nuclei. Subepithelial plexuses and networks.—In the skin and mucous membranes a plexus exists beneath the epithelial covering. Hence it has been called the suhepithelial pAexus or ground - plexus. From this subepithelial plexus, single, fine, beaded fibrils, or small collections of such fibrils, come off" and unite with each other into a network of meshes of various sizes and outlines. This network of nerve-fibrils is located immediately beneath the epithelium, and has consequently been called the suhepnthelial network (fig. 2, Plate IX.). Intercellular networks.—Some of the branches of the subepithelial network enter the layer of epithe- lium, passing in the intercellular cement between the epithelial cells. These branches ramify among the epithelia to form an intercellular network of single- beaded fibrils (fig. 5, Plate IX.). In some locations the subepithelial networks are peculiarly arranged with respect to the direction of the fibrils and the con- sequent outline of the meshes. Beneath the epithe- lium of the cornea, for example, the branches which come from the ground-plexus give origin to ramifica- tions, which with the stem whence they arise present an appearance that has been compared to the cat-o- nine-tails (fig. 2, Plate IX.). There is a great diversity of opinion as to whether the nerve-fibrils from the subepithelial plexus simply end in the cement-substance, between the epithelial cells, in a network such as above indicated, or whether they terminate by free extremities, some of which communicating with the stellate cells among the epi- thelium, others extendins; to the surface.