33 BLOOD. ckOO^^OOo forms between tlie white cell and the red corpuscle of the blood. Ovoid colorless cells.—Von Recklinghausen has met with a few colorless, ovoid, granular, nucleated cells in the blood of frogs. In these animals they seem to be more numerous in certain seasons of the year, being much more frequent in the spring and summer. Many accurate observers have seen similar color- less elements in the blood of man. They have been met with chiefly in the blood of patients suffering with certain febrile disorders. In the blood of re- lapsing fever subjects they are not infrequent; they have also sometimes been encountered in typhoid fever. In the two latter cases these cells are often loaded with fine fatty granules. The writer has met with such cells, in some abundance, in inflammations affecting the bloodvessels, and believes with Semmer that they may be regarded as normal to the blood of certain, if not all, mammals. During the same study of inflammation of bloodvessels we had the opportu- nity once or twice to observe under the microscope endothelial cells, lining the vessels, become detached and carried off in the blood-current. These observa- tions leave us no doubt that at least some of the ovoid, colorless cells, above mentioned, are to be assigned to a similar origin, namely, a limited desquamation of the endothelia lining the vessel walls. Free yrannles.—The plasma of the blood also car- ries in suspension numbers of minute particles appa- rently identical with the free (jranules described as present in the lymph ; tlieir number as well as their nature varies in much the same manner. Of course, in the blood some of these minute particles arise from a destruction by disintegration and fragmentation of the superannuated red blood-disks. Regeneration.—-In the blood, as in the other tissues of the organism, the various stages of generation, de- velopment, vigorous activity, decay, and disintegra- tion are constantly presented by the different elements. After hemorrhage, whether natural or accidental, it would seem that the investigator has offered to him very ample opportunity of studying the methods of regeneration by which immense losses of the red blood-globules are rapidly repaired. To replace the ordinary periodic destruction of red blood-disks which women suiFer at the time of their catamenia, about one hundred and seventy-five million of red corpus- cles, it has been calculated, must be produced every minute during the intermenstrual period. Yet, the question of the renewed supply of colored elements of the blood, notwithstanding the many exhaustive investigations of hematologists, has not up to the present moment been satisfactorily answered. It seems to be generully admitted, however, that in some way the red disks are elaborated from the colorless cells, either of the blood or of the lymph, but the diversity of opinion as to the precise method of for- mation during adult life, is great among some leading modern histologists. Movemeyits of the corpuscles.—Heat and the other reagents which were mentioned when considering the elements of the lymph, have identical effects upon the colorless cells of the blood. Wherever the cir- culation of the blood is sluggish, and heat and oxygen are present in sufficient quantities, large numbers of the white corpuscles put forth active movements. These movements are much more energetic in the small venules than in any other portion of the circu- latory system. It is here and in the capillary vessels that the viscosity or stickiness of the colored ele- ments especially shows itself, and it is mainly here also that the amoeboid corpuscles stick to the walls of the vessels and ultimately pass through them. The fact that they do traverse the walls of these vessels is not now questioned ; but writers are not yet agreed as to the manner in which the act is accomplished, some believing that it is effected by the active creeping of the corpuscles through minute pores, which ordi- narily are filled Avith a soft permeable substance, others claiming that the extravasation of the cor- puscle is passive, entirely effected by the outward pressure of the blood against the walls of the vessel; still other opinions have been advanced. It is ad- mitted, however, that the more active the amoeboid movements from any cause, the more rapid and ex- tensive is the emigration. It has long been known that the red elements also escape through the vessel walls. The diapedesis of these elements, however, is generally believed to be in the main passive ; perhaps it takes place through passage-ways already opened by the previous emigration of a white amoeboid cell. In these emigrations of the elements of the blood through the walls of the vessels, the cells are often fragmented, and the fragments are according to cir- cumstances carried off by the lymph current without the vessel or by the blood current within it. Like the lymphatic fluid, the plasma of the blood contains a certain proportion of fibrin which sooner or later deposits itself when the blood is left to stand. Tlie nature and structure of the fibrin of the blood are very similar to those of the fibrin of the lymph. It is supposed to be the result of the action of a so-called fibrinogenous upon a fibrinoplastic substance contained in the plasma.