BLOODVESSELS. 69 OOO^^^XX^ fibres of the tendon are inserted into tlie sarcolcmma at this point, or are simply glued upon its exterior surface by the intervention of a tough, sticky mate- rial, has not yet been determined. Fig. 4, Plate VI., represents such a mode of insertion of a muscle-fibre into tendon. The preparation from which the draw- ing was made is from the large dorsal fin of the Hip- pocampus, or sea-horse. But the artist has failed to show distinctly the most important feature of the preparation. At where the muscle-fibre ends in the tendon, the line between the two should have a double contour, and be continuous with the double-contoured line representing the sarcolerama ensheathing the muscle-fibre. DEVELOPJfENT OF MtTSCLE. Muscular tissue is developed from the cells of the middle or connective-tissue layer of the blastoderm. The fibres of striped muscles originate in the follow- ino" manner: A fusiform cell in the connective- or gelatinous tissue of the embryo suffers a division of its nucleus. The two new nuclei divide again, and this process continues until the original uni-nucleated spindle-cell has become more or less completely filled with a number of nuclei arranged in a linear series from one end of the cell to the other. Proceeding equally with this increase of nuclei, the cell thickens somewhat, and greatly elongates. Here and there the cell-body soon begins to show cross-markings— the earliest appearance of the transverse disks. This transformation of the cellular protoplasm into the con- tractile elements of the full-grown muscle continues to spread throughout the fusiform cell-body, until nearly the whole of the latter becomes transversely striated. The protoplasm immediately surrounding the nucleus is the last to experience this metamor- phosis. Even in the full-grown and adult fibre a small por- tion of the original protoplasm remains around the nucleus, and constitutes, with the latter, the muscle- corpuscle above described. It is not yet known whether the sarcolemnia is the product of an excre- tion by the protoplasm of the muscle-cell, or whether it is a formation from the surrounding connective-tissue. Reproduction of muscle fibres.—In various muscles of the human organism are many striped fibres contain- ing a very large num.ber of muscle-corpuscles, sur- rounded by a proportionately large quantity of proto- plasm, and presenting other evidences of growth. It is probable that in health there is a continual destruc- tion and reproduction of muscle-fibres. It is certainly so in manv diseases. BLOODVESSELS. The blood of man flows throughout the body in a system of channels, which, according to their size, construction, and the character of the blood passing thi'ough them, are denominated arteries, veins, capil- laries, sinuses. Each of these species of bloodvessels has a char- acteristic structure which generally differentiates it from all the others. But while there is a general plan of construction common to the members of each species, there are slight differences which constitute varieties. Some of these variations will be incident- ally noted. Capillaries. — The simplest forn:i of bloodvessel met with in man is the blood-capillary — an ex- tremely minute tube. The most primitive form of the capillary is that of a simple cylindrical channel hollowed out in the connective-tissue, with no other definite wall than that of a delicate, elastic, limiting membrane, consisting of a single complete layer of flat, thin, elastic, endothelial plates, such as have already been described as covering serous surfaces. Eacli of these endothelial plates contains one, some- times two, flattened ovoid nuclei. Under favorable conditions iutra-nuclear and intra-cellular networks can be demonstrated in these cells. Staining by nitrate of silver and exposure to light blackens the intercellular cement between their edges, which are normally in apposition Avith edges of the adjacent endothelia, and if the preparation is subsequently stained with carmine the nuclei show a brilliant red. The capillary, of Avhich fig. 5, Plate VI., is a very faithful drawing, has been treated in this manner. The outlines of the cells are shown deep black upon the top of the capillary cylinder, and by dotted lines on the bottom portion. The cells are seen to be more or less lozenge shaped, with the long axis of the cell running with the length of the capillary. The edges of cells are observed to be sinuous. The sinuosity of the edges of the cells is much lessened when the capillaries are distended. LTnder the influence of irritation or inflammation the endothelia swell up. Their edges then become separated at points, thus forming openings in the capillary wall. The smallest of these are called stigmata, the largest sto- maia. Probably it is through these openings that the elements of the blood escape during inflammation. According to some authors, they are in direct com- munication with the lymph-spaces of the surrounding connective-tissue.