LY movements, but also, even for tlie existence of life in the corpuscles, yet, on the other hand, the tem- perature cannot pass above a certain elevation with- out endangering the life of the cell. The two ex- tremes of heat within which the amoeboid cells are active, seem to be for the warm-blooded animals about 70° and 106° F. The temperature of the lymph can be brought much lower than 70° F. without neces- sarily destroying vitality. Indeed, these cells have been seen to show every phenomenon of life after freezing and thawing. Protracted lowering of the tem- perature below the extreme, however, is certain to induce the death of the cellule. The nearer the heat approaches the highest extreme the more rapid become the amcBboid movements until the limit is reached, when they suddenly cease in the destruction of the life of the element, the crisis being manifested by the retraction of the amoeboid prolongations, the resump- tion of the spherical form of the corpuscle, and the dis- tinct appearance of the nucleus, and of the granules contained in the body of the cell. The highest ex- treme of temperature cannot be surpassed without resulting in death. Not only is warmth necessary for the life and ac- tivitv of the lymph-corpuscles of warm-blooded ani- mals, but, according to Ranvier, oxygen seems also to be essential. When the cells are deprived of it, they become sluggish, asphyxiated, and finally die. Amoe- boid movements of the cells are excited by it, and sluggish corpuscles in which the vital activities lie dormant or in suspense are resuscitated and put into vigorous motion. As will be seen below, the lymph- plasma, especially in the larger trunks, contains only a minimum of oxygen, a circumstance in harmony with the known comparative inactivity of the lymph-cor- puscles in the passage-ways of the lymphatic system. When floating in a medium nearly devoid of oxygen their activities being, as a rule, dormant, their form is generally spherical, and their movements are mostly only passive. When it is remembered that it is by means of their amoeboid movements that they apply themselves to surfaces, creep along, and pass through them, and that it is upon these movements their stickiness or so-called viscosity depends, it will be readily understood how important for the economy is the fact that in the great lymphatic system, where the fluids move so slov/ly, and where, consequently, sticky elements could readily crowd together and obstruct the channels, one of the essential stimulators of the amoeboid movements, oxygen, should be almost en- tirely wanting. A sufficient fluidity of the elements themselves and PH. 27 of their surrounding medium is also necessary for the lively movements of the lymph-corpuscles. Ait in- creased specific gravity of the plasma retards, while, vice versa^ witliin certain limits, a lowered specific gravity accelerates the amoeboid movements. By the addition of water, in sufficient quantity, to the medium in which the lymph-corpuscles float, the cellular protoplasm is swollen and made more transparent,, the nucleus becomes distinct, finally the granules which may be contained within the cell assume the Browuian Tnovemeut and the cell dies. These va- rious phenomena of the death of the cell become more marked and follow each other in more rapid succes- sion if an acid be added to the water. Viability. — The viability of lymph-corpuscles is great. Under favorable conditions of heat and oxy- gen and other surroundings, they readily live a long time without the organism. When properly pre- served they have given evidence of life hours, days, and even weeks after extraction from the animal. Lymph-corpuscles exposed in the moist chamber to the action of vapor of iodine become fixed and killed the instant the vapor reaches them. Most of the cells assume a yellow tint, while the nucleus and granules become distinct. According to Ranvier, a few cells are stained mahogany-brown, the color cha- racteristic of glycogenic matter. This author states that, in these cells the glycogenic matter is diffused throughout the whole of the element. It may be ex- truded from the cell in the form of drops, and if the action of the iodine be sufficiently prolonged these drops may fuse together and form a halo or atmo- sphere around the cell of a brown-mahogany color. The presence in the lymph-corpuscles of this matter explains why chemical analyses have revealed the presence of sugar in the lymph. Absorption.—By means of their amoeboid movements, lymph-corpuscles possess the faculty of drawing into themselves minute particles with which they come in contact. They have been seen also to expel such parti- cles from within their interior. Thus they may absorb minute particles at one location, carry them for awhile in their meanderings, and subsequently discharge their cargo at a distant point, to be absorbed perhaps again by another living cell. This circumstance has an important bearing upon the positiveness of deduc- tions, respecting the nature of inflammation, which have been drawn concerning the identity, in the tis- sues outside of the bloodvessels, of lymphoid and other cells containing m their interior mmute foreio-n particles which at some point have been injected into the blood-stream.