43 EPITHELIUM. OOO^OO^^ Fig. 19. KG'- Isolated Hepatic Cells.—a, i, Normal, but b more highly mag- nified, showing the nucleus and distinct oil-particles; e, cells in various stages of fatty degeneration. {Carpenter.) Liver- and Icidney-cells.—The gland cells of llie liver possess one, sometimes two spherical vesicular nuclei with an investing membrane of double contour and an intra-cellular and intra- nuclear network. The net- Avork appears to be ar- ranged somewhat as a honeycomb. In the spaces of this honeycomb are drops of fat, with biliary granules, and occasionally pigment. The cells are polyhedral from mutual pressure, their outlines generally presenting five or six sides. They are soft, membraneless, and ap- parently granular. The cells lining the tubules of the kidneys pre- sent diverse aspects accord- ing to the relative portion of the tubules in which they are located. Those in the convoluted por- tions of the tubes are more or less granular and opaque. Here they are membraneless, and each con- tains a round or slightly oval nucleus a little towards the deep part of the cell. The cells are more or less cubical in form with a tendency to a columnar shape. They are longitudinally striated—an appearance due to the presence of large numbers of minute rod-like fibres with a general direction perpendicular to the axis of the tube. These minute rods or fibres are in truth united into a network, the meshes of which are extremely long and narrow. The nucleus also contains a network. Glands of the shin.—1. Sweat-glands. Tlie sudori- parous glands of the cutaneous surface are simple tubes which at their deep portions are very much convo- luted. In the straight portion of each tube, as it passes through the derma, there is an epithelial lining con- sisting of a single layer of more or less cubical or short columnar cells. These cells contain a nucleus, and are more or less longitudinally striated—an appearance due to the presence of an intra-cellular and intra- nuclear network, the prevalent direction of whose fibrillaj is longitudinal. In the convoluted portion the epithelial cells are much less striated, because the meshes of the reticulum of which they are in part composed are much more irregularly arranged. 2. Sebaceous (jlands.—The sebaceous glands consist of two or more lobules attached to an excretory duct. The lobules are as a rule regular, ampullar dilata- tions, lined with two or more layers of epithelial cells. The peripheral layer of cells rests upon the basement- membrane, and consists of cubical epithelia having spherical or flattened nuclei containing one or more nucleoli. These cells are more or less granular—an appearance due in part to the presence of a fine reti- culum in the cell-body and nucleus, and also in part to the presence in the meshes of this reticulum of small fatty particles. The second layer of elements is composed in the main of cells similar to those of the outermost layer, which have undergone a metamor- phosis into fat-vesicles. The molecules of fat, which are at first scattered through the meshes of the reti- culum, accumulate so rapidly that they distend its meshes inordinately, and finally cause the atrophy and destruction of the nucleus and the breaking- down of the fibres of the reticulum. The small fatty particles then run together and form a large fat-drop, which ultimately bursts its protoplasmic envelope and becomes free in the lumen of the gland. Hair and hair-follicles.—Epithelium enters into the construction of the shaft and the sheath of hair— structures met with very extensively on the surface of the body. The hair-follicle begins its development in the skin as early as the third or fourth month of the existence of the foetus. The first stages of de- velopment are exactly similar to those of the sweat- gland. Both these organs arise by an ingrowth of the cutaneous epithelium, in the shape of buds, which rapidly extend in length, burrowing their way into the depth of the connuective-tissue; for some time after development has begun, it is impossible to say whether a certain epithelial bad, growing into the connective-tissue, will ultimately form a sweat-gland or a hair-follicle. After the epithelial bud has thus entered some distance, the mass presents the first characteristic indication of the formation of a hair, by a more or less definite appearance of two layers: viz., an axial and a peripheral layer, or the true hair and its investing sheath. By further evolution these two portions, into which the mass of cells filling the depression in the derma has separated, subsequently develop, the axial portion into the shaft, the peripheral portion into the sheath of the hair. After this stage of growth has been reached, the space thus channelled out of the connective-tissue, and filled with the sheath and shaft of the hair, receives definitely the name of hair-follicle. The adult hair follicle normally contains epithelial elements very similar to those of the com- mon epidermis, but presenting some characteristics of form and arrangement which are peculiar to the hairs. Since the hair-follicle, sheath, and shaft are formed by