DEVELOPMENT OF BONE, 59 ENDOCHONDRAL BONE. Id an embryonal cartilage which is preparing to be replaced by bone, the following succession of altera- tions may be observed. Formation of embryonal spongy hone.—At a certain point in the inner or chondrogenetic (osteogenetic) layer of the perichondrium, a loop or two of capillary bloodvessels project into the cartilage-substance. In advance of these loops the cartilage-cells are enlarg- ing and multiplying within their capsules, which also are enlarged. These cells finally absorb the car tilage-matrix between them and the mass of cellular elements which surrounds the projecting capillary loops; they then communicate with the cells of the osteogenetic layer. By a continuation of this pro- cess of absorption of the cartilage in front of the advancing capillary loops, and by the addition of the contents of the capsules to the mass of cells surround- ing the vessels, the embryonal cartilage becomes channelled by vascularized cellular trabeculte or granulations springing from the inner layer of the perichondrium. The next step everywhere in the close vicinity of the vascular granulations, is the enlargement of the cartilage-capsules, and the multiplication of their cell- contents. This enlargement continues, and results in the intercommunication of many adjacent capsules and the connection of their contents with the vascu- lar granulations. By the enlargement of the spaces containing the cartilage-cells, the intervening ground- substance is eaten away until nothing is left of it but an irregular network of anastomozing trabeculee, the surfaces of which are notched at the place where the capsules have communicated with the general cellu- lar mass. At the same time the cartilage-matrix in this riddled area is infiltrated with a deposit of the insoluble salts of lime. We have now an area more or less irregular of calcified, spongy cartilage, the meshes of this spongy formation being filled with a vascularized marrow, similar in constitution to that already described when discussing the encroachment of spongy bone upon the intermediary cartilage. The next step is the incrustation of the calcified cartilage-trabeculce with a thin envelope of osseous tissue. This first takes place near the central portion of the spongy area, and the bone is formed through the agency of osteoblasts which cover the trabecula. This process advances until the whole cartilage is converted into spongy bone. (Fig. 27). Formation of hony marrow.—Sooner or later, in the central portions of this embryonal spongy bone, the osseous trabecuhe soften and disappear {osteoporosis). In this manner a central marrow cavity results. The spongy bone continues to be slowly absorbed, and converted into marrow until finally the whole of the embryonal spongy bone may be thus absorbed. Fig. 27. Transverse Sectiox prom the Femur of a Human Embryo about Eleven WEEKS Old.—a. A meduUary sinus cut transversely, h. Another, cut longitu- dinaUy. c. Osteoblasts, d. Newly formed osseous substance of a lighter color, e. That of greater age. /. Lacuna;, or blood-corpuscles,with their cells, g. A cell still united to an osteoblast. (After Gegenbaur.) At the same time that the embryonal spongy bone is being absorbed at the centre, there is a continual new formation of spongy bone by the osteogenetic layer of the perichondrium (which latter may now be regarded as a periosteum), practically identical with that already described for the periosteal growth of bone. In the older portions of pen'osiea? spongy bone. Ha- versian systems and canals begin to form through the successive development of concentric lamena3 within the Haversian spaces, by means of the osteoblasts which cover their surfaces. Layer within layer is thus formed in concentric deposits until the Haver- sian space is converted into a,Haversian system with, its narrow central canal. The original osseous tra- becul^e, which formed the meshes of the periosteal spongy bone, persist as interstitial bands between the Haversian systems. Absorption of bone [Osteoporosis).—Around the cen- tral marrow-cavity, which has been formed as indicated above, a process of absorption is at work. The com- pact tissue is disappearing, and being reconverted into spongy tissue through the absorption of the Haversian systems and their substitution by bone-marrow. The