LYMPH. ooo^ooe— 25 minute structure apparently identical with that of the preceding forms, may be considered to represent the second class of lymph corpuscles. In the thoracic duct, and in the afferent vessels of lymph-glands, their diameter often reaches 2-rro inch, while in serous cavities it not infrequently measures y-jVo inch. The cell consists essentially of two parts, nucleus and cell-body. The nucleus, whether there be one or more contained within the body of the cell, is usually spheroid, vesicular, and possesses a limiting membrane of double contour. When single, the nucleus is about 5~oVo °^ inch in diameter. During life, the nucleus is, as a rule, invisible, being masked by the natural slight opalescence of the cellular body surrounding it. 3. The intra-cellular reticulum of the lymph-cor- puscle may contain, in its meshes, besides a colorless hyaline semi-fluid substance, real collections of colored or highly refracting material—genuine granules. The cell is then called a yranular cell. The size of these granular cells may equal or exceed the dimensions of the finely granular corpuscle, but they are present in the Ivmph in much fewer numbers than the latter. The granules are not distributed evenly throughout the cell, but may be more or less grouped in various portions. Their predilection is for the body of the cell. This is so strong, indeed, that when seen during life, light areas are often observed of considerable size wherein scarcely any granules are visible. These lighter areas generally correspond to the position of the nuclei when the cells are motionless. The lymph-corpuscle is destitute of an enveloping membrane. When living, its substance is soft and gelatinous, and extremely free to assume any shape which extraneous or inherent forces may direct. Liv- ing lymph-corpuscles, when removed from the animal which they inhabit, and observed under conditions of heat, surrounding fluids, gases, etc., which are as nearly as possible natural to tliem, evince their vi- tality in numerous ways, and for longer or shorter periods. Movements.—-Many of these are contractile, and when watched sufficiently long and close, exhibit various phenomena of an individual motion, which, when energetic and protracted, may ultimately result in cell-multiplication or locomotion. This contrac- tility seems to reside in the fibres which constitute the reticulum, the fluid and the granules which may be suspended in it having only a secondary or passive motion. It appears also that the intra-cellular reticu- lum is usually much more powerfully active in the various movements of the cell than is the intra- nuclear network. Even a movement which accom- plishes the division of the nucleus, but stops short of complete cell-division, may be effected almost entirely through the agency of the intra-cellular network. Yet the intra-nuclear network is by no means en- tirely passive. It possesses and exercises a measure of moving power, for certain reliable observers have seen spots or nucleoli move within the nucleus when the cell presented no other movements. During the contractions and expansions of the reticulum the fluid and the suspended particles contained in the meshes are set in motion, and currents more or less limited are thus produced. In this way suspended particles, whether elaborated in the cell or imported thither, may move from place to place, while the invisible contraction or expansion of the reticulum may have a location in the cell quite different from that of the movement of the visible particles. The lymph-corpiTScles of the second and third class are, par excellence.! those cells of the lymph which exhibit active movements. The small colorless cor- puscles, having only a very thin cell-body around the nucleus, and consequently a very small amount of intra-cellular network, as a rule, show very feeble movements, or none at all. When the fresh lymph of a batrachian or mammalian animal is, immediately after extraction, placed in a moist chamber and prop- erly prepared for examination under a high power of the microscope, at first, the colorless corpuscles are, more or less, perfectly globular, and so opalescent that the nucleus cannot be seen. Presently, if the temperature of the lymph be kept sufficiently near that normal to the animal from which it has been taken, some of the finely yranular, as well as many of the yranular corpuscles are seen to put forth from one or more portions of their surface hyaline masses, which may persist indefinitely, or be at length with- drawn. These masses, at first hyaline, or, in the case of the granular corpuscles, free from granules, soon, in a greater or lesser part of their area, present the same optical appearance as does the body of the cell. They may then increase in size until perhaps half the volume of the cell has, so to speak, flowed into them. After or before this stage of alteration of form has been reached, one of two things may happen. The substance of the projection or bud may sink back again into the original body of the cell, which may then present its primary form, to be perchance subse- quently altered again by similar manosuvres; or the remainder of the cell-substance may continue to pass into the projection, until the latter has completely absorbed the former. In the latter case, it is evident that the location of the cell has been changed. In