94 HISTOLOGY. eign particles injected into the blood pass out between the cells of the excreting glands, has already been alluded to. LYMPHATIC GLANDS. Lymph-glands and allied reticular or lymphoid tissues, important parts of the great lymphatic system, yet remain to be considered. Lymfh-glands are more or less complex organs implanted in the course of lymphatic trunks, and apparently designed for the elaboration of some of the colorless elements of the lymph. They may consist of simple isolated lymph-follicles, or of an aggregation of them. Since a large lymph-gland is practically nothing more than a peculiarly-arranged aggregation of simple lymph-follicles, a single de- scription must here suffice. Lymph-glands, such as those of the axilla or mes- entery, are more or less ovoid in shape. They are Fig. 64. Section of s.mai.i. Lymphatic Gland, half diagrammatioallt oiven, with THE COURSE OF THE Lymph.—(1. The envelope, h. Septa between the foUicles or alveoli of the- cortical part. c. System of septa of the medullary portion, down to the hilus. d. The follicles, e. Lymph-cords of the medullary mass. r. Afferent lymph-vessels, the different lymphatic streams from which surround the follicles, and flow through the interstices of the medullary portion, g. Con- fluence of these to pass through the efferent vessel (/i) at the hilus. (Frey.) enveloped by a capsule (Fig. 64), which generally consists of two layers: an outer layer of loose con- nective-tissue, and an inner lamellated layer of dense fibrous tissue. Among the fibrous bundles of these two layers are, in some animals, a variable number of smooth muscle-fibres. Upon one side of the gland two or more large lymphatic trunks, which convey the lymph to the gland {afferent vessels), enter the outer layer of the capsule and ramify therein to form a dense plexus. The afferent trunks are supplied with circular muscular fibres in their middle tunic, and with numerous valves. At the opposite side or hilus of the gland a number of small vessels unite to form a large trunk which receives the lymph from the gland and conveys it off' [the efferent vessel). Upon examination of longitudinal section of the gland made from the convex surface towards the hilus, the sec- tion appears unevenly colored and somewhat mot- tled. The central third is of a deeper red, and seems more homogeneous, while the outer border is lighter colored and is mottled. The inner is the medullary, the outer is the cortical portion of the gland. The minute anatomy of the organ is somewhat diffei'ent in these two regions. From the inner surface of the dense lamellated inner layer of the capsule, membra- nous partitions or septa {h, Fig. 64) project inwards in such a manner as to form in the cortical layer a series of honeycomb-like compartments, which, in conse- quence of the fact that the dividing septa converge towards the centre of the gland, are more or less conical with the bases outward. When these septa reach the medullary area, they break up into a Targe number of thinner or thicker bands or trabeculae, which branch and anastomose with one another so as to form a loose, sponge-like network. The meshes of this medullary inter-trabecular network communi- cate with each other and with the conical compart- ment of the cortical layer. The membranous septa between these compartments are often incomplete. The conical compartments of the corticp,l, or fol- licular layer, as it has been called, are more or less completely filled by a pear-shaped cellular mass, the so-called follicle (d, Fig. 64). At the border of the me- dullary portion of the gland this cellular mass tapers down to a narrow stem, which passes into the inter- trabecular spaces, and becomes a medullary cylinder, or cord (e, Fig. 64). In the medullary portion of the gland the medullary cylinders branch and anastomose in a complex manner to form an irregular network of cellular cylinders. The cortical follicles and the medullary cylinders consist of a reticular or adenoid tissue permeated by a rich network of blood-capillaries. They do not entirely fill the spaces in which they lie, but are separated from the septa of the cortex, and the tra- beculae of the medullary portion by a lymph-sinus of considerable size. The lymph-sinuses surrounding the cortical follicles are continuous with those which surround the medullary cylinders. The afferent lymph-vessels ramifying in the capsule, as above described, penetrate the inner laminated layer of the capsule and open freely into the cortical lymph- sinuses. The efferent lymphatic trunks {g, h, Fig. 64) of the hilus directly communicate with the lymph-sinuses enveloping the medullary cylinders. The free course of the lymph is, therefore, from the afferent vessels of the capsule into the cortical peri-