BLOODVESSELS. 73 s-cx;^C>o<= ranged transversely. The tunica intima is extremely thin, and presents the same structure as in the venules. In the larger venous trunks the structure of the vessel is essentially the same as that of the vessels last described. The tunica adventitia is strengthened by the presence of a greater quantity of connective- tissue fibres. The tunica media in most cases contains a number of muscle-layers with the cells, for the most part running transversely; elastic tissue is, however, entirely absent. The layers of muscle-cells are sepa- rated by lamellce of fibrous tissue whose individual bundles pursue a general longitudinal course. The outer layer of the tunica intima consists of a dense fibrous membrane, sometimes laminated. The sub- endothelial layer contains longitudinal fibrous bun- dles, in the interspaces of which are stellate and lymphoid cells. The endothelial lining is not dif- ferent from that of the smaller veins. In many veins, the tunica media possesses no mus- cle-fibres. The veins of bone, of muscle, of the retina, of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, the cardiac ends of venous trunks emptying into the superior vena cava have no muscles. Some veins possess only a longitudinal muscular coat, as the veins of the pregnant iiterus. Others possess an outer lon- gitudinal and inner circular layer of muscle-fibres. In some veins, the distribution of the muscle-fibres is not limited to the middle coat. They are not infre- quently found in the tunica adventitia, and are occa- sionally present even in the tunica intima. The foregoing division of the walls of veins into three distinct coats as in the arteries is not accepted by all investigators. Eanvier thinks that the walls of these vessels should be regarded as consisting of only two tunics, an inner and an outer. According to him, it is in the innermost portion of the latter that muscle-fibres are usually located, but they may at times be found throughout the greater part of its thickness. Nearly all the veins are furnished with valves for the purpose of preventing a backward flow of the blood. At the location of the valves, there is a slight ampullar enlargement of the calibre of the vein, a provision which prevents a serious encroachment upon the diameter of the blood-channel when the valves are open and their leaflets flattened against the walls of the vessel. The following peculiarities in the structure of the valves may be adverted to here: Each surface is covered Avith a single layer of endothelial plates. Upon the inner surface the endothelia are entirely similar to those lining the vein, i. e., more or less 10 lozenge-shaped, with the long axis parallel to the axis of the vein. Upon the outer surface, however, the long axis of the endothelial plates is, in the main, transverse to the axis of the bloodvessel. Imme- diately beneath the endothelium is a subendothelial layer of connective-tissue fibres interspersed with a few elastic fibres. This layer is thicker and much more abundant in elastic fibres upon the inner than upon the outer surface of the valve. Between and upon these fibres connective-tissue cells, both fixed and wandering, are present in variable number. The subendothelial layers of the two surfaces of the valve are separated from each other by a thin, tough, fibrous membrane composed of interlacing white fibrous bundles whose general direction is parallel to the edge of the valve. Some elastic fibres are also scat- tered among the white fibrous bundles, and according to the statements of some authors a few muscle-fibres may be found near the base of the valve. When muscle-fibres are present, the direction of their long axis is usually transverse to the axis of the vessel. The endothelium and the subendothelial layer, lining the ampullar enlargement of the vein at the location of the valves, are similar to those which cover the outer surface of leaflets of the valve. Sinuses.—Custom among anatomists has fixed upon the term sinus a double and somewhat indefinite sigr- nificance. Many vessels of the human economy which have received this name -possess no circumstance which distinguishes them from veins, other than the simple fact that they constitute various channels in fibrous membranes, e. (/., some of the cerebral sinuses. Most, if not indeed all, of the sinuses of the blood- vascular system may be justly regarded as varieties of veins, for their blood is that of the venous system, and so also in many respects is their histology. The cavernous sinus, and the cavernous tissue of the corpus cavernosum of the penis, present two dis- tinct types of genuine sinuses. In the former we have a vein whose calibi'e is broken up into reticulse of various sizes and shapes by fibrous trabeculae springing from the walls of the sinus, anfl extending across the lumen of the vessel. The fibrous bundles are continuous with the middle tunic of the vessel, and contain such elements as are present in that coat. The trabeculee are covered by endothelial-cells and a subendothelial tissue similar to those of the walls of the sinus. They sometimes inclose small bloodvessels. The corpus cavernosum of the penis presents a somewhat difi^erent construction. As its name im- plies, it is a cavernous tissue. It consists essentially