HISTOLOGY. 74 of a reticulum of interlacing bands, or trabeculse of smooth muscle-fibres, associated with a variable amount of elastic fibres and bundles of white fibrous tissue. The spaces formed by the interlacement of these trabeculse are of variable size and outline, and they freely intercommunicate. The surfaces of the trabeculoe are covered with a layer of endothelial cells and a subendothelial tissue very similar to those of large veins. The trabeculge contain arterioles which distribute their blood to a plexus of capillary vessels which also are contained within the trabeculte. Most of these capillaries empty into the cavernte formed by the interlacing trabeculse. The blood of these sinuses or cavernaj is collected by venous trunks, and the communicating cavernae may consequently be regarded as a complicated venous sinus. Development of bloodvessels.—The earliest form of the complete bloodvessel is the capillary. By the successive addition of the elements which constitute their distinctive features, arteries and veins are formed from vessels which were originally in the condition of capillaries. These minute blood-channels fre- quently give origin to new capillaries in the following manner:— In young, growing connective-tissue the walls of the simplest form of capillary, above described, here and there give off solid protoplasmic projections, which may be more or less branched, and which are frequently irregular in outline (fig. 2, Plate YIL). The nuclei contained in these solid protoplasmic cylinders divide and increase in number. The por- tion in connection with the previously-formed capil- lary becomes hollowed out and filled with blood from the open lumen of the vessel. In the portion more remote from the capillary, vacuoles appear at intervals in the protoplasmic cylinder. These soon open into one another, and constitute a channel in the protoplasmic branch. By an extension of this pro- cess of vacuolation a hollow tube is produced, the lumen of which freely communicates with the lumen of the original capillary. As this process of vacuola- tion proceeds, the nuclei are pushed to the side of the protoplasmic cylinder, where they remain to form the nuclei of the future endothelium. The calibre of the new capillary ultimately becomes regular in outline, and what remains of the original protoplasm of the tube divides into endothelial plates and their intercel- lular cement. Instead of the formation of a new capillary loop by vacuolation of a protoplasmic projection from the wall of a capillary, a connective-tissue corpuscle, which by one of its branches is connected with the wall of a capillary, may swell up, experience division of its nucleus, enlargement of its branches, and through the same process of vacuolation be converted into a young capillary. This process of vacuolation may even affect con- EXPLANATTON Fig. 1. An injection of the bloodvessels of a racemose gland, as seen in a very tliin section. Medium enlargement. Y\". 2. Scheme of the relations and distribution of tlie bloodvessels of the kidney. Low power. (After Lud- wig.) A. External portion of the cortex; c being the limiting capsule. B. The cortex. C. Boundary layer. D. The medulla. E. The apex of the papilla. a, Portion of a small artery coursing along the boundary between the cortex and medulla,—it gives off an external twig (inter-lobular branch), which at varying intervals dis- tributes an afferent arteriole to a Malpighian glomerulus, m ; V, corresponding vein which receives an analogous external (inter-lobular) branch,—tlie latter collects blood directly from the efferent vessels of the glomeruli, m, and from (r) the capillary network {rete mirahihi) surrounding the tortuous uriniferous tubes of the renal cortex, and it drains the renal medulla directly through bundles of venulce recta, wliich OF PLATE VIIL empty into the inter-lobular vein as represented at v, on the left of the figure. Corresponding to the venulae recta3 are the arteriolce rectce, not represented in the diagram, which arise at the base of the inter-lobular arterial twigs. Fijr. 3. Arransrement of bloodvessels in an intestinal villus. High power. a, Arteriole ; w, collecting venule ; c, capillary plexus. Fig. 4. Arrangement of bloodvessels in a filiform papilla of the tongue. High power, a, Arterioles ; v, collecting venules ; I, capillary loops. Fi"-. 5. Arrangement of minute bloodvessels in the muscular tissue of the tongue. Medium enlargement. a, Arteriole; m, capillary plexus, the long axis of whose meshes corresponds with the length of the muscular fibre; t, capillaries running with muscle-bundles, which are vertical to the surface of the section.