BONE OR OSSEOUS o<xy^c<x^ TISSUE. 57 bj tlieir size and structure, cannot Avhen isolated be distinguished from colorless Ijmpb-corpuscles. The |Smallest of the latter have been called medulla cells {d, /, Fig. 26). Multinudear giant cells (myeloplaxes, a, i, Fig. 26) are also present in small numbers. Tlie latter elements consist of a large, soft, membraneless, irregularly-formed, sometimes branched and flattened cell-body, of a fine granular appearance, and contain a fibrillar network like that of other cells. They inclose a large number of nuclei. The vessels are similar to those of the other varieties of marrow. Red marrow of bone is met with in the Haversian spaces of spongy bone. To the naked eye it differs from the yellow marrow mainly by the entire ab- sence of fat vesicles, or by their presence only in very small numbers, and by the extreme vascularity of the tissue. This form of marrow consists of reticulated fibres similar to those of lymph-glands or lymphoid tissues to be described later. In the meshes of this reticulated tissue, cells of the following forms are closely crowded: 1st, perhaps an extremely few fat- cells ; 2d, large numbers of medulla-cells; 3d, con- siderable numbers of multinudear giant cells; 4th, polynucleated cells, which have a diameter slightly larger than that of the red blood-corpuscles, and which possess a smooth, apparently homogeneous body presenting a yellowish-green tinge,—-these cells, according to Neumann and Bizzozero, subse- quently become converted into red blood-corpuscles, by losing their nucleus and becoming bi-concave; 5th, along the osseous trabeculte are a single row of cells, which are larger than the ordinary colorless elements of the marrow, and are more or less pris- matic or flattened by mutual pressure. They have been called by Gegenbauer osteoblasts^ since they seem to take an active part in the formation of the bony substance. All of the foregoing cellular elements possess, in a more or less active degree, the power of movement. Besides the cellular forms already described there are always present in the bony marrow some colored cells, which are not distinguishable from red blood- corpuscles. Eed bone-marrow is very richly supplied with bloodvessels, which have extremely thin and delicate walls. Periosteum.—The external surface of bone is covered by a fibrous membrane—i\xQ periosteum. It consists of two layers, an outer and an inner. The outer lajev is composed of one or more lamellte of dense white fibrous tissue, the direction of whose bundles is parallel to the surface of the bone. Among these white fibrous bundles is a limited quantity of fine yellow elastic fibres, and in the lymph-spaces formed by the apposi- tion of the bundles are cellular elements similar to those of dense, white fibrous tissue. In this external, or fibrous layer of the periosteum, blood and lymph- vessels ramify and form networks. The inner or osteogenetic layer of the periosteum consists of an extremely loose fibrous tissue, the meshes of which are filled by cells very similar to the osteoblasts described as existing upon the trabeculae of sjDongy bone. Among these arc numbers of ele- ments which present characters similar to those of lymph-corpuscles. The osteogenetic layer of the peri- osteum is richly supplied by bloodvessels, which run among the cells occupying the meshes. Beneath the periosteum the surface of growing bone is covered by a bony network, the meshes of which are crowded by cells which are contiguous with those which fill the inter-fibrillar spaces of the osteogenetic layer. Here and there the most super- ficial portion of this bonj^ network sends a pointed and somewhat curved spicule of bone into the depth of the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum. The points of these somewhat conical spicules are usually continuous with fibrous bundles of the osteogenetic layer. The surface of the trabeculas forming this osseous network, as well as of the bony spicules which project into the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, are covered by the so-called osteoblasts of Gegenbauer, through the agency of which not only the bony tra- beculae and spicules springing therefrom increase in size, but also the fibrous bundles at the end of the spicules are converted into bone. In this manner the bone grows beneath the periosteum. OSSIFICATION. Bones increase in length by a process which is known as ossification. In young growing bone, the epiphyses are united to the diaphyses by the inter- vention of a plate of cartilage—the intermediary cartilage. The successive conversion into spongy bone of the layers of this cartilage which are in im.mediate apposition with the diaphysis, furnishes an excellent opportunity to examine the process of ossification of cartilage. Line of ossification.—A longitudinal section passing through the diaphysis and intermediary cartilage of a long bone shows to the naked eye a straight line of union between the spongy bone and the cartilage. This line is called the line of ossification. The carti- lage above it seems to be divided more or less dis-