72 HISTOLOGY. thicker, but does not otherwise differ from that of other large arteries. The muscle-fibres of the arteries are in the main simple, smooth, fusiform cells with rod-shaped nuclei. In the larger trunks the ends may be more or less bifurcated or even branched. In the aorta, flattened, stellate muscle-cells are often met with. The walls of the arteries are relatively thick, and, owing to the large amount of elastic tissue compos- ing them, the lumen is usually patulous. The thick- ness of the arterial wall varies considerably, according to whether the vessel is distended or not. In the large vessels the outer and middle coats are supplied with bloodvessels—the vasa vasoriim. In a few instances, capillary vessels even enter the tunica intima. Veins.—The veins dift'er considerably from the arteries. In the first place, the lumen of the vein is usually considerably larger than in the artery of the same grade, yet the wall of the vein is much the thinner. There are differences also in the minute structure. The smallest vessels which collect the blood from the capillaries are known as venules. Their walls are extremely thin, yet they can be readily differentiated, as with the arteries, into three coats— the external or tunica adventitial the middle or tunica media, and the internal or tunica, intima. The tunica adventitia consists of a simple network of fusiform or stellate cells floating in a narrow lymph-channel. The tunica media is composed of simple connective-tissue scarcely differentiated. It contains as yet no muscle- elements. The tunica intima is very thin, and is separated into thin layers which closely correspond to those of the tunica intima of arterioles. The outer layer consists of a delicate fibrous membrane with the fibres running longitudinally. The middle layer is represented by a few stellate cells with their branches anastomosing. Resting upon these stel- late cells is the inner layer composed of thin endo- thelial cell-plates similar to those of the arteries in all except outline. They are much broader and shorter than are the same cells of the arteries, and have rather more sinuous outlines. Stiyviata and stomata are formed here as in the capillaries, and there may be consequently out-wandering of the blood-cells. In veins of a little larger calibre, the tunica adven- titia increases in thickness and strength by an acces- sion of fibrous bundles, which have a prevalent longitudinal direction, but which branch and inter- lace in such manner as to form a loose meshwork in which lie branched connective-tissue corpuscles, and a few lymphoid elements. At the junction of the tunica adventitia with the tunica media the connec- tive-tissue bundles are aggregated so as to form a more or less distinct fibrous membrane, corresponding in position to the external elastic membrane of the arteries. In most veins of this size the tunica media contains, in addition to the elements of loose connec- tive-tissue, a few scattered, smooth muscle-fibres ar- EXPLANATION OF PLATE VJI. Fig. 1. Longitudinal section of thoracic aorta of Man. Higli i)0\ver. (After Ranvier.) Tlie central part of the middle coat is not drawn. 1. Liternal layer of tlie internal coat, or tunica intima. 2. External layer of the internal coat. 3. Elastic lamina dividing the internal and middle tunics of tlie artery. 4. 5. Smooth muscular fibres of the middle coat, cut transversely ; among them are elastic fibres and elastic plates. 6. External coat. Fig. 2. Showing development of capillary bloodvessels in the normal omentum of a Rabbit. High power. (After Klein.) a, Capillary bloodvessels ; b, connection of the capillaries with branched cells of the extravascular tissue. It is by metamorphosis of these branched cells that new vessels are formed. Fig. 3. Shows an artificial injection of the blood and lymph- vessels of the parietal peritoneum. Medium enlarge- ment. /, Network of lymph-trunks ; v, venules and arterioles ; c, capillary bloodvessels. Fig. 4. A. Shows, under a moderate power, an injection of the capillary network in the walls of the alveoli of an inflated lung. The vessels were filled from the pulmonary artery. J3. An injection of the pulmonary blood-capillaries (h) in the lung of a human foetus—the air-vesicles («) never having been inflated. Fig. 5. Shows a silver injection of the bloodvessels of the lung of a Frog. Higli power. Larger vessel; v', small arteriole which distributes its blood to capillaries (c) in the walls of the air-vesicles; a, inter-capillary areas.