30 HISTOLOGY. ■ OOC^^OO^ either from evaporation, or from excretion, or the like, there is usually to be found in the blood of the part an increased number of corpuscular elements. On the contrary, under opposite conditions, the number of red globules has usually been found to be below the mean. In the left heart, and in the large arteries of the limbs, the number of globules is identical, but in the arterioles it is increased. The venous blood of the skin, where evaporation is rapidly going on, and the venous blood of the kidneys, where excretion is taking place, is much more rich in red blood- disks per c. m. than is the blood of the corresponding arteries. In the interim of digestion^ the mesenteric venous blood is richer in red cells than is the arterial blood, yet less rich in this respect than the blood of the cutaneous veins. During digestion, however, there are fewer red corpuscles per c. m. in the mesen- teric veins than in the supplying arteries. There is, of course, in the latter case an accession of fluid in the veins by absorption of the intestinal juices. The emptying of the lymph into the blood-stream at the mouth of the thoracic duct, also causes a lowering of the number per c. m. of the red corpuscles in the blood- current on the proximal side of that point. The splenic vein is much richer in red disks than is the artery. The subhepatic veins have fewer red cells per c. m. than have either the portal veins or the ascending cava. There is in the liver a probable de- struction of red globules. Besides these, so to speak, local variations in the number of colored corpuscles in a given volume of the blood, there is, perhaps, a physiological mean varia- tion for each individual, as well as a difference in indi- viduals dependent upon the conditions of sex. Accord- ing to some investigators, there would also appear to be slight fluctuations in the mean volume of the colored cells without a marked disturbance of health, r.s well as differences in the intensity of the coloring matter of the corpuscle. The same authors claim that certain abnormal states of the economy show these fluctuations in a more or less marked degree. Thus Hayem declares that in chronic onsemia the mean dimensions of the red globiiles are always lessened. 100 globules of anaemic blood may correspond in volume to less than 80 healthy globules. At the same time, the intensity of the coloring matter of the corpuscles may be lessened one-quarter or one-half. The fresh fluid blood of vertebrates, as is well known, presents to the naked eye, when seen by reflected light, and in considerable quantity, a homo- geneous opaque aspect and an intense red color. It is opaque to the naked eye for the same reason that an emulsion of oil is opaque. When spread out in an extremely thin layer, however, and examined under a very high magnifying power by transmitted light, the fluid or plasma of the blood is seen to be per- fectly transparent, colorless, and structureless. The form-elements which float in it in enormous numbers are of three general classes: colored cells, colorless cells, and minute free granules. The colored cells or corpuscles, instead of being red, are, when examined by transmitted light, of a slight orange-green tint if seen single, and only approach a reddish tinge when cell is imposed upon cell several layers deep. Form of colored corpuscles.—The general form of the colored corpuscle has been found to vary greatly in different orders of animals. In nearly all mammals the outline has been found circular, whilst in nearly all of the lower vertebrates it has been seen to be more or less elliptical. There are a few fishes (the lamprey eel and allied forms), however, in which found colored corpuscles have been met with; while, on the other hand, two species of mammalian animals (the camel and the llama) possess red cells of oval out- line. A more rigid dividing line between the mam- malian and the lower vertebrate animals with respect to their colored blood-corpuscles is afforded in the presence or absence of a nucleus. In the lower ver- tebrates, whether the red cell be round or elliptical, there is a central nucleus present. In the adult healthy mammalian corpuscle, the nucleus is gener- ally admitted to be absent. Nevertheless, in oppo- sition to this latter statement, Boetcher and a few others have sought to prove the existence of the re- mains of a nucleus in the red corpuscle of mammalians also (man, among others). Varieties of colored corpxiscles.—In the healthy blood of adult man, the red corpuscles present two general varieties of form and dimension—the red hlood-dish or corpuscle proper and the microphyte. Much the more numerous of these is the red hlood-dish. The red hlood-dish or corpmscle.—As the word indi- cates, instead of being a spherical body, the red blood- cell is flattened into the form of a thin disk. Its outline is naturally circular, and in fresh arterial blood the central area of the disk presents a concavity on each side. In other words, besides being circular, the disk is normally hi-concave. The edge of the disk instead of being sharp or acute is rounded. In con- sequence of its peculiar shape, this form of the colored corpuscle, when seen in surface by trans- mitted light and properly focussed, should be most intense in color in the peripheral ring corresponding to the thicker portion. The color appears still more