HISTOLOGY. 92 <>oo^cx>o between minute, more or less stellate lymph-spaces and genuine large lymph-cavities, whose surfaces are covered with a complete endothelial lining. Slit- like spaces are frequently found, particularly in laminated fibrous membranes, lined only on one side with a complete endothelial layer. Relations of the lym'ph-canalicular system with lymph- capillaries and serous cavities.—The serous cavities have already been described. They are, on the one hand, in communication with the lymph-spaces or lymph-canalicular system adjoining them, and, on the other hand, through the mediation of lymph-capilla- ries, are directly continuous with lymphatic trunks. Yon Recklinghausen first demonstrated the commu- nication between the cavity of the peritoneum and lymphatic trunks of the diaphragm, but we owe our most positive knowledge of the anatomy of the lymphatic system of the abdominal and thoracic cavi- ties to the valuable and painstaking labor of Klein. According to Klein, the peritoneal surface of the centrum tendineum of the diaphragm is covered by an endothelial lining, whose cells have not all the same character and arrangement. The great majority of the endothelia are ordinary, thin, elastic cell- plates, with slightly sinuous outlines, and flat, oval nuclei. At intervals over this surface are clumps of smaller, polyhedral granular cells {germinating endothelia), with sometimes two and even a greater number of nuclei. These small collections of germi- nating endothelia surround a small hole in the serous surface. The holes are known as true stornata, in contradistinction to certain small groups of similar germinating endothelia {2:>seudo-stomata) in which no hole is apparent (fig. 1, Plate I.). The centrum tendineum consists of two general layers of fibrous bundles. In the lower, or peritoneal layer, the bundles have a direction radiating from the centre of the aponeurosis. In the upper, or pleural layer, the fibrous bundles are concentric. Between the fibrous bundles of each of these aponeurotic layers is a system of lymph-capillaries. Their main direc- tion is, of course, the same as that of the fibrous bundles between which they run. The capillaries of the same layer occasionally anastomose with their neighbors by lateral branches, and the two systems also intercommunicate by vertical canals running from one layer to the other. ISTow, the above-mentioned stornata vera are located upon the peritoneal surface, over the spaces between the radiating fibrous bundles of the lower layer. They open into superficial, small, vertical canals, which lead into the nearest lymphatic capillaries. Upon the pleural surface of the dia- phragm, over the interspaces between the concentric fibrous bundles of the upper aponeurotic layer, are also numbers of stornata vera. These latter open by short vertical lymph-channels into a superficial plexus of lymphatic trunks between the basement- membrane of the diaphragmatic pleura and the cen- trum tendineum. This superficial plexus of lymph- atic trunks is provided with numerous valves. It is in communication below with the lymphatic capillaries of the upper layer of the tendon of the diaphragm, and, as a consequence, with the cavity of the perito- neum. The lymph which reaches the subpleural plexus of lymphatic trunks is conducted by two dif- ferent ways into the general circulation. Over the anterior two-thirds of the upper surface of the dia- phragm, the lymph is drained oft' by two main trunks, one for each side, Avhich pass forward to the anterior wall of the chest, and ascend behind the sternum as far as the manubrium, where each enters a lymphatic gland. The lymph of the posterior third of the above plexus is conveyed by means of two main short trunks directly into the thoracic duct. The move- ments of respiration cause this diaphragmatic system of lymphatics to act somewhat as a pump in draining the peritoneal cavity. Lymphatic system of muscles.-—In the aponeurotic sheath of muscles it has been found that the inner and outer layers each possess a system of lymph- capillaries which bear much the same relation to each other as do those of the diaphragm. The outer plexus of lymphatic capillaries is drained by lymph- trunks with numerous valves. The lyniph-eajnllaries and lymph-spaces of the endoinysium are in commu- nication, on the one hand, with the lymph-cylinders surrounding the ultimate or primary muscle-fibre, and, on the other hand, with the lymph-passages of the perimysium. Communications of the cerehro-spinal cavities.—The large serous cavities of the cerebro-spinal axis have various ramifications and connections. The space between the encephalon and the inner surface of the dura mater is a double serous cavity. The one part of this cavity is separated from the other by a deli- cate partition—the arachnoid. The space between the dura mater and the arachnoid has been termed the subdural cavity; while that between the arach- noid and the intima pia has been named the sub- arachnoid cavity of the cranium. It is claimed that the one has no communication with the other. Some authors recognize also a third general lymph-space existing between the pia mater and the cerebral substance.