HISTOLOGY. 86 portion of the gelatinous substance in the posterior horn is another column. At the root of the posterior horns in the dorsal region there is still another column of ganglion-cells located near the posterior white col- umns (Clarke's column). Around the central canal or its remains is another aggregation of ganglion-cells. The finely-branched ganglion nerve-cells of the poste- rior horns possess no axis-cylinder processes, and are in communication with the nervous network of Gerlach only by means of their minute branches. Fig. 57. Transverse Section of the Grat Substance of the Spinal Cord through the Middle of the Lumeae Enlargement.—On the left side of the figure groups of large cells are seen ; on the right side, the course of the fibres is shown without the cells. Magnified 13 diameters. (After J. L. Clarke.) In the cervical region of the cord a few ganglion-cells are found in the white columns adjoining the lateral group of multipolar cells in the anterior horns. Ependyma of the cord.—-Around the central canal of the cord the neuroglia of the gray substance be- comes a little more dense than elsewhere, and the fibres of the reticulum have an arrangement peculiar to this location. They follow three main directions. Some are longitudinal, parallel with the axis of the canal; others are concentric, and a few radiate per- pendicular to the surface of the canal. The radial fibres are continuous with fine processes of ciliated columnar epithelial cells which line the surface of the central canal in a single layer. In the human adult the central canal is rudimentary below the cervical region of the cord, and is not patulous. This condensation of the neuroglia at the surface of the central canal constitutes the ependyma of the cord. The canals and various ventricles of the brain are lined by a similar tissue which is there also known as the ependyma, and is invested by a single layer of ciliated columnar cells whose deep ends di- vide into processes which communicate with the neu- roglia-fibres. The particular arrangement of the nerve-fibres and the nerve-cells of tlie cord will be described in the subsequent clmpters of this work. Cortical or <jray matter of the Irain.—In tlie cortex of the brain the gray substance presents general microscopic appearances which are peculiar to it. It seems to be arranged in several illy-defined layers, one passing almost insensibly, and by small grada- tions into those adjoining. Fig. 3, Plate XI., very well represents a view of the cortex of the human cerebrum as it appears when ordinarily prepared for examination, but Fig. 58 gives a more intelligible dia- grammatic sketch of the minute anatomy of the gray matter covering a cerebral convolution. According to Meynert, " speaking generally, the cortex presents five latnin£e(see Fig. 58). The first or superficial lamina (1) is principally composed of an evenly punctated non-nervous matrix, with a few small stellate cells, and near its surface numerous fine varicose nerve-fibres decussating in all directions. The second (2) is a layer of close-set, small pyramidal corpuscles. The third (3) is a layer of large pyramidal corpuscles. The fourth (4) is a layer of small, close-set, irregular-shaped cor-