OGY. 60 HIS T 0 process of absorption does not stop at the accomplish- ment of this result. The interstitial osseous trabeculae of the spongy bone next succumb, and the softened area is added to the central cavity. Thus it is that while the bones are growing at the periphery they are being eroded at the centre. According to Kolliker, Kindfleisch, Klein, and others, solution of bone is effected by the agency of the multinuclear giant-cells. These cells have con- sequently received the name of osteoclasts. They are believed to elaborate an acid by whose action the bony substance with which they are in contact is first softened and then dissolved. In the development of bone, the various stages in the process of ossification may succeed each other with varying rapidity in different bones, and in dif- ferent parts of the same bone. In long bones, for example, the middle portion of the diaphyses often entirely consists of periosteal bone, while at the ex- tremities the embryonal spongy bone has scarcely begun to disappear. INTERMEMBRANOUS BONE. The intermembranous formation of bone is analo- gous to the development of bone from the periosteum. For instance, the bones of the cranium have their origin in a fibrous membrane which soon presents a division into two layers similar both in structure and function to the outer and inner layers of the perios- Fig. 28. OsTEnBT.ASTS FROM THE pABIETAL BONE OF A IlnMAN EMBRYO THIRTEEN Weeks Old.—a. Bony septa, with the ceUs of the lacunse, or bone-corpuscles. b. Layers of osteoblasts, c. The latter in transition to bone-corpuscles. Very high power. (Gegenbaur.) teum. Spongy bone is formed by the inner or osteo- genetic layer precisely in the same manner as it is formed beneath the periosteum of other bones. This spongy bone is converted into compact substance by the same method, and finally osteoporosis progresses in a manner already familiar. TEETH. Although the first rudiments of the teeth are off- shoots from the epithelium covering the surface of the gums, and although the enamel which covers the exposed surface of the fully-developed tooth is of epi- thelial derivation, yet the greater portions of the teeth, namely, the dentine, the cement, and the pulp, are of connective-tissue oi'igin, and may properly be classed with the connective-tissues. Because of the entrance of bone into their structure, as well as for other rea- sons, an examination of their histology would seem to have an appropriate place after the study of bone. Development of the teeth.—The first rudiment of the tooth is met with early in embryonic life, at a period when the connective-tissue of the gum has scarcely advanced in development beyond the state of fibrous mucous-tissue. It is observed in the form of a club- shaped duplicature of the stratified epithelium of the gum. (See Fig. 29.) This epithelial infolding is con- Fig. 29. Vertical Section of the Upper Jaw or a Fcetal Sheep, about 2% inches long, showing the enamel-germ, with the semilunar rudiments of the dentine- germ and dental sac in transverse section. 1. I>eutal groove; 2. Palatal pro- cess. Magnified 50 diameters. stituted externally by a single layer of columnar epi- thelia, identical with those which form the deepest layer of the covering of the gum, and internally by a collection of polyhedral epithelial-cells. These cells, like those of various other epithelial coverings, are held together by an intercellular cement-sub- stance. This club-shaped mass of epithelial cells is the pri- mary enamel-organ. Later this club-shaped mass pene- trates deeper into the connective-tissue and increases greatly in thickness, at the same time changing its outline. The club-shaped extremity has now spread out and become indented by a slight elevation of the connective-tissue which has begun to advance into it. (See /, Fig. 30.) This elevation is the first appearance of what will subsequently constitute the dentine and the pulp of the tooth. The milk, or first teeth, are now