MUSCLE, 67 ooogooi called the secondary or collateral dish (n, Fig. 38). It requires strong aud well-defining lenses for the demon- stration of these details of the structure of muscle- Fig. 38. Structcre of Striated Mnscn.AR Fibre, after Enoei.mann, from Tei.e- PnORUi; MKLANtlRUS (A COMMON EUROPEAN BEETLE). CUTANEOUS MUSCLE FROM THE Abdomen.—m. Median disk. n. Secoudary disk. z. lutprmediate disk. Mayaified 1000 diameters. The sarcolemma is seen on the left side. fibres. Engelmann and Hensenn have each recorded the presence, in the middle of the transverse or con- tractile disk, of a transverse, lighter band which thej have called the median disk (diagrammatically shown at m, Fig. 38). The above-described dark elements of the striped muscle have been found to be doubly refracting; they consequently polarize light, while the light substance which separates them has not a similar effect upon the luminous rays. The shortening and transverse thickening of the dark rods or sarcous elements of the contractile disk, which takes place during contraction of the fibre, causes the interstitial substance to apparently increase in amount. Since the thickened rods are then more closely pressed together, the fluid portion of the in- terstitial substance must necessarily be squeezed out above and below, and increase the volume of the half of the light or interstitial disk above and below the contractile disk. Frequently a part of this expressed interstitial substance finds its way between the sarco- lemma and the edge of the contractile disk, and sepa- rates the two, thus producing a convexity or bulging of the sarcolemma at these points. This condition is shown somewhat diagrammatically on the left in Fig. 38. Sometimes the attachment of the intermediate disk of Krause to the sarcolemma breaks, either from a destructive process at work in the fibre itself, or from the action of reagents which soften the intermediate disk and cause the substance of the light interstitial disk to swell greatly. The sarcolemma may then be separated from the surface of the muscle-fibre for a considerable part or the whole of its length. Occa- sionally the muscle-fibre may suffer a transverse frac- ture within the sarcolemma. A retraction of each fragment then takes place, resulting in their separa- tion. Such a condition is shown in i, fig. 1, Plate VI. The ensheathing sarcolemma remaining unbroken be- comes wrinkled, and perhaps twisted, as is seen at n, 1, in the figure last mentioned. These fractures in- variably pass through the light or interstitial disk. The interstitial substance between the sarcous ele- ments often contains, especially in the lower animals, minute molecules, sometimes of pigment, sometimes of fat—the interstitial yraniiles of Kolliker. Muscle-corpuscles.—Besides the constituents above enumerated, striped muscle-fibres contain, at more or less scattered intervals, cellular elements which ap- pear to be closely analogous to connective-tissue cor- puscles. In nearly all the muscles of most of the higher animals, these elements rest upon the surface of the muscle-fibre, and form a part of it. They are not connected with the sarcolemma. In some of the Amphibia, these cells are scattered through the sub- stance of the fibre (see e, Fig. 37). In birds thej are found in both locations. In the muscle of the heart of man they exist near the centre of the fibre. When in the depth of the fibre, they are im- bedded in the interstitial substance, and they consist of a flattened oval nucleus, containing one or more nucleoli, the long axis running parallel with the length of the fibre. In the adult, fully-matured, normal inuscle-fibre, the nucleus is surrounded by a very small amount of protoplasm, which is more ex- tensive at the ends of the oval nucleus, where it is frequently lengthened out into a tapering extremity. The broad surface of the cell tlien presents a some- what fusiform outline. When seen in profile the out- line appears more linear. The protoplasm usually contains a certain number of dark, or, Sf>metimes, shining granules, mostly aggregated at the poles of tlie cell. These cells are known as muscle-corpuscles. Their office has been variously interpreted. Some have thought them to be the terminal organs of the nerves, which supply the fibre. Others liave regarded them as simple connective-tissue corpuscles. The weight of opinion, however, seems to support the view that they are the builders of the muscle-fibres. The rela- tion which they bear to the growth of muscle will be considered when we speak of its development. Cardiac muscle-fihres.—In the heart of man the muscle-fibres possess certain peculiarities. In the first place they .seem to be destitute of an investing sarcolemma. In the second place they are very short, and are branched in the manner shown in Fig. 39. Each fibre possesses one or more nuclei, Avhich are imbedded in the depth of the fibre. The end of a branch of one fibre abuts aorainst the end of that