77 NEKVOUS TISSUE, 000^00= insulating tube. It is composed of a great number of short tubular sections^ placed end to end, or imbricated. The ends of these sections are bevelled as represented very poorly in a, Fig. 44. Each of these bevelled-edged tubal sections consists of a fatty, semifluid substance, held within the meshes of a fine reticulum (Klein). This fatty substance has long been known as neurine. Water, pressure, and various reagents cause the semi- fluid fat of these sections, which normally is homo- geneous, to break up into granules and drops. The medullary cylinder then becomes coarsely granular, and if the neurilemma be broken the fat extrudes in drops of considerable size, as shown in 6, Fig. 44. Fis. 45. Human Nerve-Tubes, highly magnified. Four of them are fine, one being varicose, and two of middling thicliness and of simple contour; whilst three are thick, two of which are double-contoured, and one incloses grumous contents. (Gray.) c. The neurilemma^ or sheath of Schwann, is a deli- cate, elastic, homogeneous membrane, which envelops the medullary cylinder as a continuous tube. It is the analogue of the sarcolemma. Between the neuri- lemma and the medullary sheath is a thin lymph-space. The axis-cylinder and the surrounding medullary sheath are also slightly separated by a thin lymph- space. This latter lymph-space is probably in commu- nication with the outer lymph-space beneath the neu- rilemma, by means of the spaces between the bevelled ends of the tubal sections of the medullary cylinder. • Nodes of Rnnvier.—The neurilemma is not a tube with straight sides, and evencalibre from one end to the other, but presents at more or less regular intervals sharp annv.lar constrictions (a, Fig. 46), which divide the nerve-tube into segments. At the place of these annular constrictions, first described by Eanvier, a septum from the neurilemma passes across the nerve- fibre interrupting all of its parts excejDt the axis- Fig. 46. cylinder and the lymph-space immediately surround- ing the latter. When a perfectly fresh and uninjured meduUated nerve-fibre is treated by nitrate of silver, and exposed to light, the annular constriction becomes very distinct. If the nerve is submitted long enough to the action of the silver salt, the latter will penetrate to the periaxial lymph-space around the axis-cylin- der, and extend along it for a little distance. When this is the case the surface of the axis-cylinder is covered by transverse markings {lines of Frommann)^ which are due to coagulations in the lymph-space. In consequence of this dark stain- ing of the annular constrictions, and of the axis-cylinders for some distance above and below them, a dark cross becomes conspicuous. These constrictions are known as the nodes of Ranvier^ and the por- tions of the nerve-cylinder between the constrictions are known as inter-annular segments. Each in- terannular segment comprises a number of bevelled-edged imbri- cated tubular sections of the medullary sheath, and also contains a flattened nucleated corpuscle. The nucleus of this cell consists of a fine reticulum and an enveloping membrane of double contour. It is a flattened-oval in shape, and is surrounded by a small amount of protoplasm which also contains a fine reticulum. The corpuscle is flattened upon and partially sunk into the surface of the medullary sheath, sometimes extending across one or more bevelled sections of the cylinder. It has no connection with the neurilemma. It is the analogue of the muscle- corpuscle, and has been named the nerve-corpuscle. Size of nerve-fihres.—The size of a medullated nerve- fibre varies according to the diameter of the axis- cylinder, and the thickness of the insulating sheath or medullary cylinder. The thickness of the medul- lary sheath to some extent varies with the distance to which the nervous impulse is to be conducted. The greater the course the nerve-fibre has to traverse, the greater the thickness of the insulating cylinder, is a rule which has numerous exceptions. In the nerve-centres the medullary sheath is compa- ratively thin, except in certain tracts of the spinal cord, where fibres which run a great distance are located. Nerve-Fibke feom the Sciatic Nerve of the Rabbit after the ac- tion OF Nitrate of Sil- ver.—a. Ring formed by- thickened membrane of Schwann, m. White sub- stance of Schwann ren- dered transparent by gly- cerin. Cy. Cylinder-axis, which just above and be- low the level of the an- nular constriction pre- sents the lines of From- mann. (Frommann.)