78 HISTOLOGY. :x>O^COO As the medullary nerve-fibre approaches its peri- pheral termination, its medullary cylinder gradually becomes thinner and thinner until it entirely disap- pears, leaving only some flat nerve-corpuscles between the neurilemma and the axis-cylinder. There are many nerve-fibres of this structure to be seen in nearly every section of a nerve-bundle. They are generally scattered around unevenly among the fibres which are still medullated. In a given nerve-bundle the medullary fibres may be nearly uniform in size, or they may have very different diameters. Division of nerve-fibres.—In their course the nerve- bundles generally branch in order to widen the ex- tent of their distribution. In some instances branches derived from two or more bundles are bound together to form a nerve-bundle. In this manner a plexus of nerve-bundles may be formed within a common epi- neurium. Occasionally, also, complete nerves may branch and form nerve-plexuses. "While the branching of whole nerves and of their constituent bundles is of universal occurrence, it has been doubted if the individual medullated fibres ever divide. Some well-reputed authors have in recent years both described and figured an occasional bifur- cation of medullated nerve-fibres, especially when near their peripheral termination. This bifurcation takes place invariably at one of the nodes of Ean- vier. The axis-cylinder divides, and each branch is enveloped in a neurilemma and medullary sheath which are continuations of those which surround the fibre above the point of division. Microscopic nerve-hundle.—In branching, a nerve becomes smaller and smaller and its constitution less Fig. 47. and less complex until a microscopic size is reached. This microscopic nerve may consist of a single small bundle of medullated and other fibres ensheathed in a perineurium, which, instead of being formed by dense lamellated connective-tissue, is represented by a delicate film of connective-tissue. The external surface of the endoneurium, as in the larger nerves, is still covered by an investment of endothelia. The appearance of such a microscopic nerve, after it has been withdrawn from its perineural sheath and sub- mitted to the action of niti'ate of silver and light, is very well represented in Fig. 47. A microscopic funiculus of this character continues to di- vide and subdivide until the smallest microscopic medullated nerve is reached, inclosed in a perineurium composed of a sin- gle layer of endothelial cells. These smallest medullated nerves are not infrequently slightly moniliform—an irreg- ularity of outline due to the accumulation at intervals of lymph or periaxial cement- substance in the lymph-space between the cylinder-axis and the medullary sheath (Fig. 45). The nerve-fibre finally loses its medullary sheath. From this point it passes through the tissue with a simple covering of neuri- lemma and occasional nerve-corpuscles. From time Nerve-FcNicuLDS of the Tail of a Mouse, aftee Im- preonation with nitrate of Silver.—Large flat endothe- lial cells are seen covering its surface. For explanation of the small crosses see preced- ing figure. (Ranvier.) EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Transverse section of a small bi'anch of a cerebro- s[)inal nerve. Medium enlargement. a, Common sheath ; b, lymph-space within it; c, perineu- rium carrying bloodvessels, v, and lymph-vessels; d, axis cylinders of medullated nerve fibres. These fibres are col- lected together into bundles, inclosed within a sheath, which consists of a condensation of the connective-tissue of the perineurium. The individual nerve fibres constituting such a bundle are separated from each other by a delicate tissue known as the eiidoneurium. Fig. 2. Minute subdivisions of the nerves in the superficial layer of th6 cornea, termed the subepithelial plexus, as seen in the cornea of a Rabbit after treatment with chloride of gold. High power. OF PLATE IX. Fig. 3. Connective-tissue element? of the perineurium of a cerebro-spinal nerve. Very high power. (After Ran- vier.) /, Connective-tissue bundles ; c, flat connective-tissue or endothelial-cells. Fior. 4. A minute bundle of medullated nerve-fibres in the D tongue of a Cat, showing axis-cylinders, c, and nuclei of the neurilemma, n. High power. Fig. 5. Vertical section of anterior epithelium, n, b, and superficial layers, e, c, of the fibrous tissue of a cornea stained with gold, showing the penetration of the nerve- filaments between the corneal epithelium, and the forma- tion there of an inter-epithelial network of minute nerve- fibres. (After Cohnheim.)