THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 93 Between the coverings of the spinal cord there are also corresponding lymph-cavities, which are sepa- rated from each other by the arachnoid, namely, the subdural and the subarachnoid cavities of the cord. They freely communicate with the corresponding cavities of the brain. The external surface of the dura is covered with endothehum, as are also the surfaces of the large lymph-spaces of the cerebro- spinal nervous system. The subarachnoid cavity of the brain communi- cates with the ventricles of the cerebrum. The bloodvessels from the arachnoid pass through the pia into the brain, taking a lamina of the arachnoid . with them as a sheath (the perivascular sheath), the lymph-spaces of which are in communication with the subarachnoid space. The perivascular sheath of the smallest vessels is a simple layer of endothelium, partially lining a perivascular lymph-channel, whose wall is simply the surrounding neuroglia. The lymph leaks out through this porous wall and percolates among the minute meshes of the neuroglia-fibres to reach the 2^^^^(^6^^^'^«^ lymph-spaces surrounding the ganglion-cells of the gray substance and the peri- fihrillar hjm'ph-spaces existing between the neuroglia and the bare medullated nerve-fibres of the white substance. In this manner the ganglion-cells and the nerve-fibres of the cerebrum are brought into communication with the subarachnoid lymph-cavity of the cerebrum. An essentially similar arrangement of the lymph- circulation exists in the spinal cord. Lymphatics of the spinal nerves.—While considering the minute anatomy of the spinal ganglia, occasion was taken to refer to the continuation of the subdural and subarachnoid cavities of the cord into the spinal nerves: the subarachnoid being continuous with the perineural lymph-space of the nerve; the subdural communicating with the epineural lymph-spaces. The endoneurium between the individual nerve-fibres contains lymph which on one side communicates with spaces around the nerve-fibres—on the other with the subperineural space. The cranial nerves have a lymph-circulation similar to that of the spinal nerves. In the spinal ganglia the epineural and the perineural lymph-spaces communicate with corresponding spaces of the cord and of the nerve to which they are attached. Lymphatics of hloodvessels. — The bloodvessels of large size generally possess two systems of lymphat- -one for the tunica intima and one for the two ICS- outer tunics. Fig. 2, Plate XII., represents the lymph- canalicular system of the middle or connective-tissue layer of the tunica intima of a large arterial trunk. The tunica adventitia is pre-eminently a trabeculated peri-vascular lymph-space which is in free commu- nication with lymph-spaces scattered through the tunica media. Besides the lymph-spaces in the tunica adventitia, the vessel may be partially or completely ensheathed by a perivascular lymph-space (fig. 1, Plate XII.), or be surrounded by a dense plexus of lymph-vessels. These perivascular lymphatics frequently commu- nicate with the lymph-canalicular system of the tissue through which they pass. Fig. 1, Plate XII., shows a capillary bloodvessel having such a "relation to the lymph-spaces of the surrounding tissue. A, fig. 3, Plate XII., is a faithful reproduction of a small branch of a pulmonary artery, a, and an accompanying lymphatic capillary, i, which communicates with the lymph-canalicular spaces, c, in the inter-alveolar septa. B, same figure, gives a surface view of the inter- alveolar lymph-spaces. Ljymphatics of bones.—In bones the lymph-canalic- ular system is represented by the bone-corpuscles. By their canaliculi, these lymph-spaces freely open into the lymphatic capillaries of the Haversian canals. The Haversian Ij^mph-vessels accompany or more or less completely ensheathe, as perivascular lymphatics, the bloodvessels of these canals, and in their turn communicate with the lymph-vessels of the peri- osteum. Lymphatics of cartilages.—Cartilage also possesses a canalicular lymphatic system which directly empties into the lymphatics of the perichondrium. The ex- pansions of the lymph-canalicular system of cartilage are the cartilage-capsules. Lympihatics of epithelial structures.—Not only is the lymph-canalicular system of von Recklinghausen in direct open communication with lymph-canals and cavities as above stated, but, according to Thoma, Arnold, and others, the intercellular cement between the epithelia of the skin, mucous membranes, and glands, and between the endothelia lining the lumen of bloodvessels, is often continuous with the contents of neighboring lymph-spaces, and should in such cases be regarded as a projection of the lymph-canalicular system. In this intercellular cement, circulation is generally very slow, but nevertheless quite manifest. It is through these channels that minute solid par- ticles enter the submucous lymphatics of the air- passages and the interalveolar lymph-spaces of the air-vesicles of the lungs. The probability that the minute molecules of the chyle reach the capillary lacteals of the villi in a similar manner, and that for-