89 NERVOUS TISSUE. double-contoured membrane, and contains an intra- nuclear network, in communication with an intra-cel- lular network in the body of the cell. This intra-cel- lular network continues into the process. The latter may be regarded as an axis-cylinder process. The ganglion-cell is enveloped by a thin homogeneous membrane or capsule, which is continuous with the neurilemma or sheath of Schwann of the nerve-fibre with which it is connected. The enveloping mem- brane of the ganglion-cell is lined by granular, flat- tened, somewhat polyhedral cells. They are analo- NeRVE-CeI.I.S from the GA5SERTAN GANGMON OF THE HtTMAN SUBJECT.— a. A globular one with defined border, b. Its nucleus, e. Its nucleolus, d. Caudate cell. e. Elongated cell with two groups of rigment-particles. /. Cell surrounded by its sheath or capsule of nucleated bodies, g. The same, the sheath only being in focus. Magnified 300 diameters. (Gray.) gous with the nerve-corpuscles of the medullary sheath of a nerve. The ganglion-cell usually fills the space formed by the enveloping membrane. It fre- quently contains a small number of yellowish or dark- brown pigment-granules in some portions of the cell- body. Instead of the ganglion-cell being unipolar, it may be bipolar or even multipolar. Fig. 60. STRfCTiiRE OF Ganulionic Nerve-Cell.—A. According to Dr. Beale: a, straight process ; c, spinal fibre. B. According to Arnold. Highly magnified. A, Fig. 60, represents, according to Beale, a pecu- liar form of bipolar glanglion-cell not infrequently found in the spinal ganglia of frogs, and occasionally met with among mammals. It dift'ers from the last- described unipolar cells by having, in addition to a 12 straight axis-cylinder process similar to that of the common unipolar cell, a smaller branch which winds more or less spirally around the larger straight pro- cess until it has passed a little distance from the body of the cell, when it leaves the straight process and turns to pursue an opposite direction. The spiral turns are entirely within the common membranous envelope of the cell. The straight process proceeds on its course without acquiring a medullary sheath, while the spiral-fibre soon becomes ensheathed in a medullary cylinder. Within the ganglia the nerve- fibres arising from the ganglion-cells are generally gray, gelatinous fibres without a medullary sheath; the latter, nevertheless, they may or may not subsequently acquire. The bundles of nerve-fibres which pass into a group of ganglion-cells spread out and wind around among the cells to emerge again after losing some fibres and gaining others, ultimately to end in their final distributions. SYMPATHETIC NEEVE-GANGLIA. The larger ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system do not essentially differ from the spinal gan- glia, either in their general plan of construction or in Fig. 61. Microscopic Ganglion from Heart of the Frog. (Strieker.) the character of their ganglion-cells. They need not be more particularly mentioned here. Along the course of the sympathetic nerves are found single ganglionic cells and isolated small groups of cells, constituting simple microscoj^ic ganglia. These microscopic ganglia and isolated ganglion-cells are of quite frequent occurrence in the nervous plexuses supplying involuntary muscles, as, for instance, the unstriped muscles of the intestine, the walls of blood- vessels, and the heart. The ganglion-cells are usually located at or near the nodal points of the nervous net- work, the larger groups being found in the ground- plexus, or compound bundles of non-medullated free