HISTOLOGY. 32 glohin, usually deposited from a considerable quan- tity of blood. The form of the hemaglobin-crystals varies in different animals, and is often quite peculiar to certain species. These characteristic forms often Fig 10. Blood-crystals.—A, trihedral crystals from blood of Guinea-pig. B, pen- tagOQal crystals from blood of Squirrel. C, octahedral crystals from blood of Eat and Mouse. D, hematin-crystals from Human blood. E, hematoidin-crys- tals from an old apoplectic clot. F, bemin-crystals from blood treated with acetic acid. [Gray.) yield valuable suggestions as to the kind of animal from whence they came. Crystalline forms, artificially derived from hemo- globin, and valuable in medico- legal examinations of supposed blood-stains, are those obtained from dry blood by the action of glacial acetic acid. They consist of nut-brown, rhombic, crystal- line plates, called Aemm-crystals, or hydrochlorate of hematin. The red blood-disk of man varies somewhat in dimensions. Its mean diameter, as is seen by reference to the table on a previous page, is about ^Vo inch. This size may vary somewhat among different individuals, and in the same person at different times. The microjjhyte.—-In every specimen of human blood there are among the red bi-concave disks, already de- vi ■■(0 Hemin - Cktstals, by Teichmann, in hydrochlo- rate of hematin. scribed, a small number of colored globular corpuscles of much less diameter, and of a darker tint. Their size may be not greater than -^-^-^ or of an inch. They appear to possess the same intimate structure, and to give the same chemical reactions as do the red bi-concave disks. They have been called microcytes. By some histologists they are regarded as young, not yet fully developed, red blood-corpuscles {hernaio- hlasts of Hayem), since they seem to be more numer- ous at times when the blood is undergoing repair. By others they are thought to be the old bi-concave disks undergoing retrograde changes. They are especially abundant in progressive pernicious anaemia. The white or colorless corpuscles. — Of the colorless corpuscles of human blood, cells similar to those of the three general classes of colorless cells described as present in the lymph are found, and it is not necessary here to review their characteristics. Their number, however, is usually far below that of the colored elements. It varies much even in health, and in the same individual, from one time to an- other. In comparing the white corpuscles with the red, Welcker has the average as 1 white to 835 red, Moleschott 1 white to 357 red, Klein has placed the highest number in health at 1 white to 650 red. We have the authority of Moleschott for the statement that boys have 1 colorless to 226 colored corpuscles, old men 1 to 381, girls 1 to 389, young women men- struating 1 to 247, the same women when not men- struating 1 to 405, pregnant women 1 to 281. Ac- cording to Hirt the proportion of white corpuscles to the red is low immediately after eating, while two or three hours later, the proportion is again near the normal. The same author states that the proportion in the blood of the splenic vein is 1-60 ; in the splenic artery 1-2260; in. the hepatic veins 1-170; in the portal vein 1-740. It would seem from these figures that there may be at times a physiological leucocy- tosis, although this has been denied by some later investigators. Groucher declares that the proportion of the white to the red corpuscles varies little in the course of the day. In disease the relative number of the white corpuscles has even surpassed the propor- tion of 1 white to 3 red cells. Red granular corpuscles. — Besides the ordinary white corpuscles, Semmer has observed in the blood of mammals certain numbers of more or less granu- lar, nucleated, colorless cells, of somewhat larger size than those above considered, which contain red granules of considerable size, and has named them red granular corjmscles. According to this author, as well as A. Schmidt, they are probably intermediary