54 HISTOLOGY. T-CXO^^OOo infiltration may gradually spread until the whole matrix may be incrusted, and the cells transformed into calcified elements. By transmitted light the particles of lime are dark and opaque, large collec- tions of them consequently appear more or less black. By reflected light they are brilliant and shining. This deposit of lime does not appear to permanently change the constitution of the cells or matrix. Weak acids readily dissolve it, leaving both apparently in their original condition. YELLOW ELASTIC OR RETICULAR CARTILAGE. This variety of cartilage is met with in man, in the Eustachian tube, in the epiglottis, and a few other places. It differs from hyaline cartilage only by the presence in the matrix of fine, yellow elastic fibres in greater or lesser numbers. These fibres are gen- erally collected together so as to form a trabecular network in the matrix. In the meshes thus formed the cells are found enveloped in capsules, which are surrounded by a variable amount of hyaline ground- substance (see fig. 3, Plate IV.). Near the perichondrium the elastic fibres gradually disappear. WHITE FIBROUS CARTILAGE. This form of cartilage appears to occupy, histo- logically, an intermediate place between white fibrous connective-tissue and hyaline cartilage. Its distribution in man is somewhat more exten- sive than the yellow elastic cartilages. It is chiefly found in the intervertebral disks and in the bursse of tendons. The intercellular substance or the matrix consists of white fibrous tissue arranged in parallel bundles. Frequently the fibres are arranged in lamellse. and sometimes, as in the intervertebral disks and the symphysis pubis, the bundles constituting the lamellte have a concentric arrangement. The cells of this form of cartilage have the same relation to the bun- dles as the flat cells of Eanvier do to the parallel bundles of tendons or aponeuroses. The cells them- selves are not quite so flat or so much branched as the endothelial cell-plates of tendons. They are en- veloped by the characteristic capsule of the cartilage- cell (fig. 2, Plate IV.). In some places the capsules are surrounded by a very small amount of hyaline substance. In the transition of tendon into fibro-car- tilage the tendon-cells gradually thicken and become invested with a capsule, the only visible change noticeable. In the transition of fibro-cartilage into hyaline cartilage, as is observed at the edges of the intervertebral cartilages for example, the fibrous intercellular substance slowly disappears and merges in the hj'-aline matrix, while the cartilage-cells gradu- ally swell and approach the spherical form. Lymphatics of cartilage.—Cartilage, like all the other connective-tissues, is permeated by lymph spaces. The cartilage-capsnles are perforated by almost num- berless minute canals. The openings of these minute capillary tubes or pores communicate at one end with the interior of the capsule, which is a lymph-space containing the cartilage-cell, and at the other end open into large canaliculi which ramify in the cartilage matrix, and which, in their turn, communicate with the lymphatics of the perichondrium. BONE OR OSSEOUS TISSUE. Bone is the greatest in weight of all the solid tis- sues of the organism, and is the most extensive of the groups of the great connective system. It presents for study a ground-substance, inclosing cellular elements and vessels, both lymph and capil- EXPLANATION Fig. 1. Section of calcified and fibrillated hyaline cartilage, from the costal cartilage of an old Man. High power. a, Intercellular matrix infiltrated with minute calcareous granules, they are found more densely aggregated at c, around the cartilage capsules; b, fine fibrillae, imbedded in the in- tercellular hyaline matrix. Fig. 2. Fibro-cartilage from the intervertebral disk of Man. . High power. a. Fibrous matrix or intercellular substance ; c, b, cells OF PLATE IV. contained within a cartilage capsule, and exhibiting various stages of multiplication. P'ig. 3. Reticular or elastic cartilage, from the epiglottis of Man, showing the so-called cartilage cells in various phases of division within their enveloping capsules. High power. b, Elastic fibres imbedded in the intercellular matrix.