28 HISTOLOGY. ^=00^000 Lympli-corpuscles may become loaded with ab- sorbed innocuous minute foreign particles without having their activity seriously impaired. Many lymph-corpuscles are found which inclose in their interior various substances naturally met with in the course of their circulation, as for example fat drops, granules of blood-pigment, fragments of red blood- globules, and sometimes even small red blood-disks. Those cells which contain small red blood-disks have given rise to much dispute among physiologists, some believing that the blood-disks are formed within the cell, others claiming that the red disks reach their singular location in the same manner that other ex- traneous particles become absorbed. From their sup- posed power of elaboration of certain products, which may be discharged either as waste material or as matter to be used by other elements of the economy, Ranvier has suggested that the lymph-corpuscle is a uni-celhdar wandering gland. c. Red corpuscles.—Another element constantly found in the lymph is the red blood-corpuscle. It is usually met with only in small numbers when the lymph has been very carefully extracted. Its source may be traced to diapedesis from the blood-capillaries, which doubtless is to some extent a never-ceasing means ot supply. But it is also possible that many may be the outcome of a new formation somewhere within the lymphatic system. Plasma.—The plasma of the lymph, as has already been stated, is, when fresh and normal, a colorless transparent substance of fluid consistence. Accord- ing to Chevreul, a thousand parts of the lymph of a dog yielded, of water, 926.4; of albumen, 61; of fibrin, 4.2; of salts, 8.4. In estimating the gases in the lymph, Hamraarsten found in 3.527 ounces of fluid 1.664 cubic inches of gas, of which .054 c. i. were nitrogen, .016 c. t.oxygen, and 1.594c. /.carbonic acid. In. consequence of the fibrin-elements which it con- tains, the plasma of the lymph soon coagulates into a gelatinous mass when collected. If set aside for a while, this mass separates, like the blood-j)lasma, into two portions, the serum and the clot, which latter, in its elements, does not differ microscopically from that of the blood. GHYLE. The fluid collected by the lacteals, transported through the mesenteric lymphatic vessels and emptied into the thoracic duct with the lymphatic fluids from other locations, is lymph which contains elements al- ready described. In the intervals of digestion, it con- tains many more minute granules (a. Fig. 6) in a given volume of fluid than the lymph usually car- ries, but during digestion the number of minute par- ticles is so enormous that, whenviewed by the naked eye, the chyle presents an opalescent appearance, which is entirely due to their increased numbers. The most minute of them usually exhibit the Brown- ian movement. These granules do not consist solely of fat, as some have contended, but they pos- sess a protoplasmic body which forms an envelope or frame for the load of fat which each of them holds. Under a high power of the microscope, after treat- ment with the proper re- agents, each minute parti- cle is seen to consist of a small fat-drop imbedded within a mass of proto- plasm, which envelops it as a thin shell. Acetic acid added to the fluid dissolves these delicate protoplasmic envelopes and sets free the fat-glo- bules, many of which then run together to form larger fat-drops (?>, c. Fig. 6). When a collection of chyle is placed in a flask, and ■ Fiff. 6. —' ' ' ' ' -t-ooo in Molecular Base and Corpusclks OF Chyle.—At a, from a lacteal on the intestine; h, from a mesenteric gland ; c, from the roceptaculum chyli. From Man. {Carpenter.) Contents of Chyle.—At a, primary molecules of chyle; 6, secondary molo cules of chyle; c, fatty globules; d, chyle-corpuscles; e, pale cells; /, red corpuscles. {Carpenter.)