YELLOW ELASTIC-TISSUE, Another form of connective-tissue presents itself in the yellow elastic-tissue. The fibres or bauds com- posing it differ in chemical constitution from those of white fibrous tissue. They are not influenced by the action of water, weak acid, or strong alkalies. Unlike the white fibrous tissue, the individual elastic fibres frequently branch, and by the anastomoses of those branches form a genuine network with meshes, varying in size and shape according to the location and the variety of elastic-tissue. Fine elastic fibres.—As already indicated, every form of white fibrous tissue contains a variable amount of elastic tissue in one form or another. Perhaps the simplest and most widely distributed variety of yellow elastic-tissue is that which is present among the bundles of white fibrous tissue in the form of a loose sparse network of fine cylindrical apparently homogeneous and highly refracting fibres. These fine elastic fibres lie in close proximity to the (pri- mary) white fibrous bundles, never within them. After nearly every method of preparation they seem homogeneous, presenting no trace of fibrillation or other structure. But when freshly submitted to the action of osmic acid, and examined under a mode- rately high magnifying power, they appear trans- versely striated. If a power of eight or nine hundred diameters with a good lens is employed, the transverse strise are resolved into highly refracting lenticular or somewhat spherical forms, imbedded in a less dense, hyaline, transparent substance. The fibres of elastic-tissue are straight or curved according to the tense or loose condition of the tissue in which they are found. When broken they curl np at the extremity. This form of elastic fibres is met with also in the matrix of yellow elastic cartilage. Coarse elastic fibres.—Besides the network formed of such delicate elastic fibres just described, manv white fibrous tissues contain an elastic plexus, composed of much coarser fibres. These coarser, elastic fibres are cylindrical or band-like. Schwalbe proved them to be covered by a delicate elastic sheath, which is ordi- narily invisible. After the action of osmic acid upon perfectly fresh specimens, the coarse fibres are also seen to possess the peculiarity of structure alreadv de- scribed for the finer fibres. This variety of yellow elastic fibres is also met with in the skin and other felt-works of white fibrous tissues. In the superficial portion of the trachea and bronchi they are closely packed together to form, with but a sparse amount of interstitial white fibrous tissue, a dense lon<d- 7 THE CONNECTIVE-TISSUE SYSTEM =00^000 tudinal hxyer. 49 The most marked development of this form of yellow elastic-tissue is found in the ligamentum nuchte and the ligamenta subflava, which- may be regarded as, par excellence^ types of yellow elastic tissue. Even in these two locations there is always a certain quantity of white fibrous bundles Yellow Elastic-Tissue.—High power. (Gray.) scattered through the meshes formed by the large yellow fibres, and there are also a small number of the formative connective-tissue cells present. ' The latter bear their customary relations to the lymph- spaces and the fibres. In this tissue the elastic fibres pursue mainly a longitudinal course, and are closely applied to each other. But if thin sections are made, and pulled out laterally by needles, it is easily seen that they really constitute a network. This form of yellow elastic-tissue is also found well developed in the walls of large arteries and veins. The elastic networks heretofore considered are more or less sponge-like in their arrangement. There are elastic fibres Avhich are band-like and in some locations form only lateral anastomoses. In this case we have an elastic fenestrated membrane, such as is present in the inner and middle coats of arteries and veins (see fig. 3, Plate III.). Furthermore, instead of a fenestrated membrane, we may have a continuous layer of yellow elastic-