HISTOLOGY. 70 A little more complex form of tbe Hood-capillary consists of an addition to tlie vessel of an incomplete slieatli of fusiform or stellate connective-tissue cells, whose branches form a network. These cells float in a thin lymph-space, which in part surrounds the ves- sel, and the two together constitute a delicate outer or adventitious coat (tuidca advenlitid). In some loca- tions the capillaries are completely invested by a cylin- drical lymph-channel, in which case the walls of the channel are lined with endothelium, and the exterior surfaces of the capillaries are also covered by similar cells. This is usually the character of the capillaries of the brain and spinal cord. When capillaries run throTigh reticular tissue their walls are connected with the branches of the reticu- lum (fig. 6, Plate VI.). The capillaries vary greatly in size in different locations. In the cerebro-spinal nervous system and in the lungs they are smallest, in the marrow of bone they are largest. Moreover, in some locations, they are quite irregu- lar in calibre. In the inner layer of the dura mater, and in the interstitial connective-tissue of many mus- cles, they sometimes present varicosities or even diverticula of odd forms. Many authors have claimed for the capillaries a moderate contractile power, through the agency of which their calibre may be more or less modified. Arteries.—The simplest structure of the artery is found in the smallest vessels of this class. Such ves- sels are known as arterioles. The capillaries pass so gradually into the arterioles that it is often difficult to say exactly where the one begins and the other ends. The wall of each arteriole has a much greater thick- ness than that of the capillary in which it ends, and is more complex in its structure. Next to the blood- stream lies the same endothelial layer as is found in the capillaries. It has also an adventitious coat ex- ternally, which is a further development of the deli- cate tunica adventitia surrounding many capillaries. Between these two inner and outer coats of the arte- riole is a third or middle muscular coat. Tiie dis- tinctive feature of the arteriole is the existence of this muscular tissue in the middle coat of the vessel. The muscle-fibres are short, smooth, and spindle-form, and run around the inner coat in a transverse direc- tion. In that part of the arteriole nearest the capillary, these transversely arranged smooth muscle-fibres do not form a continuous layer. The cells are usually a little too short to completely encircle the vessel. At intervals, two or three are grouped together on one side of the arteriole, while the opposite side remains uncovered. By means of an alternation of these groups of cells around opposite sides of tlie vessel, the arteriole is practically supplied with the means of narrowing and widening its lumen. A little nearer the heart the layer of muscle-fibres Fig. 40. Cerebral Arterioles (Human).—1. SmaUest artery. 2. Transition vessel. 3. Coarser capiUaries. 4. Finer capillaries, a. Structureless membrane still with some nuclei, representative of the adventitious coat. b. Nuclei of the muscle-fibre-cells, c. Nuclei within the small artery, perhaps appertaining to the endothelium, d. Nuclei in the transition vessels. Highly magnified. (Gray.) forms a continuous uninterrupted membrane. The wall of the smallest artery may then be regarded as composed of three coats or tunics—the ext'ernal coat or tunica adventitia, the middle [muscular) coat or tunica media, and the inner coat or tunica intima. The tunica adventitia of the larger arterioles still represents ihe tunica adventitia or lymph-sheath of the capillaries above described. There is a network of branched corpuscles which lie in lymph-spaces formed by a loose reticulum and felt-work of white fibrous tissue. Between the tunica adventitia and the tunica media in the larger ves.sels of this class there are fre- quently found a few fine elastic fibres collected into a network. Between the tunica media and the tunica intima in these vessels is also a small number of elas- tic fibres, the elastic layer of the tunica intima. Be- tween such a delicate elastic layer and the endothelia lining the tunica intima exist, even in arteries of this size, a small number of branched connective-tissue cells connected together into a membranous network. In arteries of a larger calibre^ the various elements