26 HISTOLOGY. ■ «>OO^OOo this manner the lymph-cells may slowly move from place to place. After a considerable portion of the substance of the cell has passed into a bud or projec- tion, the two main masses may increase the distance between their centres by a lengthening out and thin- ning of the pedicle which unites them (see Fig. 2). Subsequently the newly-moulded mass may still flow back into the original cell, as before suggested, or it may draw the original or mother mass into it, or the two masses may continue to separate until the uniting bond becomes so tine that it breaks, when the two become independent individuals, each endowed with the characteristics of the original cell. This is one of the modes of multiplication which the student can readily follow. Instead of one such budding mass, two or more may sprout from the original cell-body, and experience the various changes already men- tioned. Figs. 2 and 3 very fairly represent the out- Fig. 3. White Corpdscles (or Lymph-cells) undergoing division, and active move- ments. High power. (Car- penter.) A Granular Corpuscle of Newt, sliowing changes undergone in lifteen minutes. High power. {Klein.) lines which the finely granular and the coarsely gran- ular corpuscles present at various stages of their alterations, although they are drawn from white blood-cells. The structure of the cells, however, is not portrayed with equal truthfulness, the granular aspect of the granvilar corpuscles being exaggerated while the nuclei of the finely granular cells are much too prominent. The changes in form already men- tioned are essentially those of budding or gemmation. At the same time that they are transpiring the original nucleus, if there be but one, may suffer division either by fission or gemmation. Usually each large bud draws into it a nucleus, if the budding is to result in cell-multiplication. The lymph-corpuscle, instead of putting out buds, may present a constriction in the cell-bodv, which may progress until both the nucleus and cell are cut into two. Thus, two new cells may be the result-of division by scission. The portion of the cell cut off" from the original mass in the two ways above indicated may vary much in size. Unless the new mass contain a nucleus it cannot be regarded as a complete cell. Whether such a nucleated mass be capable of development into a perfectly formed corpuscle endowed with powers of reproduction and of ulterior usefulness is a question which remains open. In every specimen of lymph there are such masses to be found, varying greatly in size, but never presenting large dimensions. The movements above considered, because of their resemblance to those of the uni-cellular animals called amoeb£e, were termed by Max Schultze amoeboid movements, and the jelly-like substance of which the cells are composed, on account of its general resem- blance to the material of certain vegetable cells, re- ceived the name of protoplasm. Degrees of vitality.—The various colorless elements of the lymph appear to be endowed with different de- grees of vitality and of activity. In every collection of fresh lymph properly prepared for microscopic ex- amination, there are some colorless corpuscles which, as long as the examination is continued, remain un- changed, and, of those which show signs of life, some present much more sluggish movements than others. Of the immobile cells, those which show a sharply de- fined nucleus, or two or more of the same kind, or which contain great numbers of fatty molecules, may be con- sidered moribund oi" perfectly inert, and perhaps already advanced in the process of disintegration. Eanvier re- gards these as identical with varieties of pus-corpuscles (see Fig. 4). Those which still preserve their oj^ales- Pus-coRpnscLES.—1, a, 6, in water; c, d, e, after the action of acetic acid. 2, division of nuclei—a, b, division progressing : e, d, more or less complete. ( Virchow.) cent finely granular appearance, and their nucleus partly or not at all visible, may, for periods, remain in a dormant state, and be capable of being awakened therefrom by the action of a sufficient stimulant. Chemical and physical influences.—Of the agents which variously affect the lymph-corpuscles, some of the chief are heat, moisture, oxygen, acids, and electricity. Whilst a certain degree of heat is essen- tial, not only for the manifestations of amoeboid