THE LYMPHATIC SYSTEM. 91 c-OO^CXX! small trunks and capillaries. They consist of folds of the tunica intima projecting into the lumen of the ves- sel, usually in the shape of two hemispherical sacs, which rest lightly against the wall of the vessel, ex- cept when the lymph attempts to flow backwards. Then they project into the lumen until the opposite sacks meet and form a kind of lymph-sac. At the location of these valves there is a slight bulging out- ward of the lymphatic walls. Such ampullar en- largements along the lymphatic trunks are very prominent when the vessels have been artificially in- jected. In the small lymph-trunks the lining eudo- thelia usually have somewhat the outline of a long lozenge, with slightly sinuous edges. The smaller lymph-trunks sometimes anastomose with each other, and form a plexus. Lymph-capillaries.—-The small lymphatic trunks communicate with plexuses of lyniph-capillaries. Lymph-capillaries are channels through the tissues, with walls possessing a simple endothelial lining of broad, sinuous-edged cells, and with outlines ex- Fig. 63. tremely varied. Their lumen, even when full, may be oval, slit-like, ampullar, or jagged. Unlike the capillary bloodvessels, which they enormously exceed in size (fig. 3, Plate VII.), they are frequently larger than the trunks into which they empty. Their general direction and their form are very considerably influ- enced by the arrangement of the tissues among which they lie. Until the investigations of von Kecklinghausen, Klein, Axel Key, Eetzius, and others, in recent years threw a flood of light upon the subject, lymph-capil- laries were considered to be the ultimate ramifications of the lymphatic system. Lymph-canalicular system.—Von Eecklinghausen demonstrated a connection between the small irregu- lar plasmatic spaces, existing in the albuminoid, semi- fluid cement, in which the connective-tissue fibres are imbedded, and the lymphatic capillaries. These ir- regular spaces, with their canalicular branches and the connective-tissue cells which they frequently contain, von Eecklinghausen described as a lymph-canalicular CoKNEA OF THE Froq TREATED WITH LUNAR CAUSTIC, highly magnified.—a. Canalicular systems. In one place a branched flattened corneal corpuscle with its nucleus is seen; in two other places nuclei, c, of corneal corpuscles, and, d, migrating or wandering cells, are seen in the lacuna; of the canalicular system. b. Branched channels, which connect the lacunae of the canalicular system. {Carpenter.) system (Fig. 63), and recognized as the ultimate radicles of the lymphatic vessels. By their branching canali- culi these lymph-spaces intercommunicate with one another, and those nearest the lymph-capillary open into the latter. These minute lymph-spaces among the tissues normally may contain, as we have already seen, one or more flattened connective-tissue corpuscles usually applied to one side of the space. They have no other endothelial lining. In those spaces directly communicating with a lymph-capillary, the connective-tissue corpuscle, by one of its processes, is often continuous with an endothelial plate lining the capillary. The point of communication of a lymph- canaliculus with the lumen of a lymph-capillary cor- responds to an opening between the edges of the endothelium—a stoma. The lymph-spaces are of extremely variable size and form. Sometimes stellate, sometimes slit-shaped, sometimes more or less cylin- drical, they are moulded by the direction of the fibrous bundles, membranes, or other tissues in which they are imbedded. There are in different portions of the body all gradations in size and form