11 ©pinion but, factfl, You place Dr. William Hunter after Monro and Hewson. Dr. William Hunter was the founder of the System of Lymphatics being absorbents, Dr. Monro claims also the discovery, he may also have made the discovery, but Dr. Hunter must be alowed to be a discoverer, because lie was prior to Dr. Monro" many years, and therefore it is possible Dr. M. may have learnd it from Dr. II., but it is absolutely impossible Dr. II. could have learnd it from Dr. M. several years before Dr. M. discovered it. I dare say you will at once sec the force of this argument : and as to Mr. Hewson, ho made a poor work of what he had learnd from Dr. Hunter the time ho was his Physiol. Assistant and partner. However I see you are desirous to do justice to the school of Hunter, but you do it all away by giving the credit of the Lymphatics being the only absorbents to Sheldon and Cruikshanks: whereas if you had read Dr. Hunter's commentary you would have there seen, that I was the first who started the opinion and afterwards proved it by experiment, from whom all the others have coppied: nor is there a new opinion being made on the subject, further than that they are the absorbents and the only absorbents : therefore not any one of them have any right to originality. However: I like to see men thinking, and it must be said that yon have not been idle. Your works show your attention to the animal ceoonomy, which cannot be too much ascertained. I shall be glad to hear from you, as also the pleasure to see you in Leicester Square, if ever you come to London. I am, Dear Sir, Your most Obedient and Humble Servant, London, Oct, 31, 1787. JOHN HUNTER. LETTER TO "MR. BROWN" relating to a Child he had sent to consult Hunter. Stone Collection. LETTER to the Master, Wardens, and Court of Assistants of the CORPORATION OF SUR- GEONS, suggesting the formation of a Surgical Library. Stone Collection. HUNTERIAN CERTIFICATE. Lent by Dr. Arthur Davit's. This is to certify that Mr. Charles Hinehley diligently attended my_ Lectures upon the Practice and Theory of Surgery which I gave to several of the Pupils of St. George's Hospital. London, May 2nd, 1774. Jons Huxteu.