IS SILVER TANKARD, once the property of John Hunter. Prated to the Roy. Coll. of Surgeons by his nephew Captain Sir Everard Uome, Bart.,li.N. SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS, once the property of John Hunter. Lithotomy Knife. Instrument for tightening ligatures in operation for Aneurysm. Pair of Dressing Forceps, Spatula, and Scissors: lhe three last were presented to the College in 1893 hy W. Eoots, Esq. PHOTOGRAPH of the page of the Oxford University Matriculation Roll showing the signature of John Hunter. TRACING OF THE ENTRIES in the Account Book of St. Mary Hall, Oxford, showing Hunter's Battels from June 5 to July 22, 1755. As the two preceding entries show, Hunter matriculated June 5th, 1755 as a Gentleman Commoner at St. Mary Hall. The matriculation entry runs thus-— "Johannes Hunter ex aula santa? mara; virginis. Ann. Pil." This is in Hunter's handwriting ; the spelling of " Sanctae Marios " is Hunter's also. The entry in the books of S. Mary Hall is " Junii 5, 1755, Admissus est Johannes Hunter superioris ordmis Oommensahs. By entering as a Gentleman Commoner, Hunter escaped any Matriculation Examination. Dr. William Pitcairn was tutor to the Duke of Hamilton at Oxford and had the Degree of M.D. conferred on him at the opening of the Kadclifle Library. He entered at St. Mary Hall, and, as he was on intimate terms with William Hunter, it is very probable that it was Pitcairn who recommended St. Mary Hall for John Hunter. Through the kindness of Dr. Chase, Principal of St Mary Hall, the account books for 1755 have been thoroughly examined. In the Buttery books the entries begin on June 6 and end on July 22 ; there is nothing on June 12-15 and 22nd. This makes just the 6 weeks' residence necessary for keeping the term Where Hunter lived in Oxford is not known; the quarterly accounts of the Hall do not show any charges either for " Chamber Eents," " Beading Prayers," " Guberna- tion," " Pro Eebus," or " Bedmaking." It is therefore certain that he did not live within the Hall itself. He is charged, however, "Cook's Salt" and " University Dues." These charges are continued until the quarter ending St. Thomas' day, 1755; after that date there is no entry against Hunter's name : his name was, however, kept on the list until the week ending Dec. 16, 1756. Mr. P. Madan of the Bodleian Library has most kindly made a transcript of the Hall entries, this accompanies the tracing, and by it some of (he items can be made out. The most constant entry is that of "Janitor 2d"; if Hunter had lived in the Hall the fee would have been for knocking in after probably 9 p.m. As he lived outsido the Hall, the charge must bo for knocking out after 9 o'clock. PHOTOGRAPH OF MATRICULATION ENTRY OF "JOHN HUNTER" in the Glasgow University Album. Presented by Dr. Finlayson. It was stated by Mr. Luther Holden in his Hunterian Oration in 1881, that John Hunter matriculated at Glasgow University in 1745 (see Hunterian Oration, 1881, page 12). Dr. Finlayson has mado further researches on the subject (see'British