20 that in caso of the death of my son boforo ho attains twenty-one or of my daughter before she attains twenty-one or marriage then it is my Will and intent that the capital of tlio share or part of such of them so dying shall go and be paid to the survivor of them And I do hereby nominate and appoint my said wife and also the said Matthew Baillio and Everard Home Guardians to my two children until they shall severally attain twenty-one years of ago and also Executors of this my Will In witness whereof I the said John Hunter have hereunto set my hand and seal this eleventh day of July in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninety-three. JOHN HUNTER, Signed, sealed, published, and declared by the said John Hunter as and for his last Will and Testament in the presence of us who in his presence at his request and in the presence of each other have subscribed our names as witnesses thereto. John Gawler—Henry Gawler—Owen Jones. Proved 2nd November, 1793. John Gawler was an Attorney in Essex Street, Strand. In the book of Household Accounts (see p. 12) the following entry occurs:—" 1791, May 8. Jno. Gawler for a Will £2 2s. Od." ENTRY in Rough Minute Book of CORPORATION OF SURGEONS of Hunter having passed the Exami- nation for Membership, July 7, 1768, The Examiners were Messrs. Bromfield, Middleton, Crane, Adair, Young, Fullagar, Pott, and Dr. Hossack. The entry is '' John Hunter, exd. for and recd. Diploma £27 8s. Od. In a " List of Fees " in the same book it is explained that the Fee of .£27 8s. Od. is for " Grand Diploma by a person residing in London who has not been bound at ye Theatre." For a person residing in London, and who has been bound, the fee is £23 4s. 6d. COPY OF HUNTER'S BOOK ON THE BLOOD with MS. Notes by William Clift. It is in two marginal notes in this Vol. that Clift states Hunter's hei ht to have been 5 ft. 2 in. REGULATIONS and LAWS of the Lyceum Medicum Londinense, held at Mr. John Hunter's Lecture-Room, Castle Street, Leicester Square. 8°, London, 1792. Stone Collection. The Lyceum Medicum Londinense was instituted Jan. 25, 1785, under the patronage of Dr. Fordyce and Mr. Hunter.