INTERIOR OF THE PHARYNX. 391 The three constrictors are supplied by the pharyngeal plexus of nerves; the superior has also branches from the glosso-pharyngeal, and the inferior from the external and recurrent laryngeal nerves. The Stylo-Pharyngeus Muscle (Fig. 205, 12) has already been seen at its origin, and can now be followed to its insertion by dividing some of the fibres of the middle constrictor. It arises from the root of the styloid process of the temporal bone, and passes between the superior and middle constrictors to be inserted into the bag of the pharynx, and into the posterior border of the thyroid cartilage. It is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Fibrous bag of the Pharynx is very thin at the lower part, where it lies between the muscular fibres and the mucous membrane, but above the border of the superior constrictor it is much stronger, and is expanded from side to side, covering in the Eustachian tubes and the levatores palati muscles. At the base of the skull it is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, by a fibrous band (cranio- pharyngeal ligament, Quain), to the Eustachian tube, and to the under surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone ; and is carried forwards to the root of the pterygoid process and the internal ptery- goid plate of the sphenoid bone, becoming continuous with the pterygo- maxillary ligament. [The pharynx is to be opened from behind by an incision in the median line, from the basilar process to the commencement of the oesophagus. The fibrous bag is to be detached from the occipital bone on each side and held widely open with hooks, and the whole of the eotton wool is to be removed from the interior of the pharynx.] The Interior of the Pharynx (Fig. 206) presents seven openings in the following order from above downwards ; (1 and 2) the two posterior nares separated by the vomer; (3 and 4) the two Eusta- chian tubes ; (5) the isthmus faucium or opening of the mouth ; (6) the superior aperture of the larynx guarded by the epiglottis; and (7) the opening into the oesophagus. Tae soft palate or velum pendulum palati (5) intervenes between the nose and the mouth, and consists of a fibrous membrane which is attached to the palate bones, and is strengthened by expansions from the several muscles of the palate ; it is covered by mucous mem- brane, wluch is ciliated on the upper but not on the lower surface. The centre of its free border is prolonged into the uvula, and on each side will be seen the two folds called the pillars of the fauces, formed by mucous membrane reflected upon the palato-glossi and palato- pharyngei muscles. The mucous membrane of the pharynx is continuous with both