481 THE PIA MATER. The anterior and the posterior surfaces of the spinal cord, when removed from the body, may always he distinguished as follows :— 1. There is a bright shining cord (linea splendens) running down the anterior surface. 2. There is one spinal artery on the anterior, but two arteries on the posterior surface. 3. The posterior roots of the nerves are ganglionic. The Arachnoid (Fig. 250, 2, 3) consists of a parietal and visceral layer like the arachnoid of the brain, with which it is continuous. The parietal layer is seen on the inner surface of the dura mater, to which it is firmly attached ; the visceral layer is reflected loosely upon the spinal cord, giving to the several nerves loose sheaths, which are reflected upon themselves at the point where the nerves pierce the dura mater. The Subarachnoid Space (Fig. 250, 5) is between the visceral layer of the arachnoid and the pia mater of the spinal cord, and can be shown by lifting up the arachnoid with forceps, or by inserting a blow-pipe and forcing air beneath the membrane. This space com- municates with the interior of the brain by an opening at the lower extremity of the fourtli ventricle. It lodges the subarachnoid fluid, which also enters the ventricles, and is hence called cerebro spinal fluid.* [The cord is to be turned over so as to expose its anterior surface, and an incision is to be made through the dura mater to expose the arachnoid and subarachnoid space, as was done behind. The pia mater is then to be examined both on the front and back of the cord.] The Pia Mater encloses the spinal cord, giving prolongations upon the roots of the nerves. It is continuous with the pia mater of the brain, but is more fibrous and less vascular than it. It sends a process into the anterior median fissure of the cord, opposite to which is a fibrous band called linea splendens, and at the first lumbar vertebra (termination of the spinal cord) ends in the filum terminate or central ligament of the cord, which lies within the prolongation of the dura mater, to be attached with it to the coccyx. The Ligamentum Dentieulatum (Fig. 251, 16) is found on each side of the cord between the anterior and posterior roots of the * It has been supposed that a distinct serous membrane existed beneath the true arachnoid, in which the subarachnoid fluid was contained. Mr. Hilton has given prominence to this view in his “ Lectures on Rest and Pain ” (1863), but the question was decided some years since by Dr. Sharpey, who found that microscopically there was no evidence of a second serous membrane.