THE SYMPHYSIS PUBIS. 289 The Great sacro-sciatic ligament (2) is broad at its upper attach- ment, which is to the posterior inferior spine o? the ilium and to the sides of the sacrum and coccyx, and narrows to its insertion into the inner and back part of the tuberosity of the ischium. A portion of this ligament, by its falciform prolongation to the ramus of the ischium, has been seen to protect the pudic vessels and nerve. The Lesser sacro-sciatic ligament (3) is attached to the side of the sacrum and coccyx close to, but in front of, the great ligament, and reaches to the spine of the is- chium ; thus separating the greater from the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen. Articulation of the Sa- crum and Coccyx.—The ante- rior sacro-coccygeal ligament is a thin fasciculus, passing from the anterior surface of the sacrum to the front of the coccyx. The posterior sacro-coccygeal ligament is attached to the lower opening of the sacral canal, and passes along the whole length of the posterior surface of the coccyx. A small inter-articular carti- lage intervenes between the sa- crum and coccyx, and the cornua of the latter are connected to the former by short ligamentous bands. The Obturator Ligament (Fig. 158, 5) is a fibrous membrane filling up the obturator hole except at its upper part, where an opening is left for the passage of the obturator vessels and nerve. It gives origin to the fibres of the obturator externus and internus muscles by its outer and inner surfaces. Symphysis Pubis.—The anterior pubic ligament passes in front of the two bones, the superficial fibres interlacing obliquely and the deeper ones running transversely. Fig. 158. Fig. 158.—Ligaments of the pelvis and hip-joint (from Wilson). 1. Lower part of the anterior com- mon ligament of the vertebrae. 2. Lumbo-sacral ligament. 3. Ilio-lumbar ligament. 4. Anterior sacro-iliac ligament. 5. Obturator membrane. 6. Poupart’s ligament. 7. Gimbemat’s ligament. 8. Capsular ligament of the hip- joint. 9. Ilio-femoral or accessory ligament. u