THE GASSERIAN GANGLION. 303 which the tentorium was detached. It is of small size, and runs from the cavernous sinus hack to the lateral sinus, just where the latter turns downwards in the temporal hone. The Inferior Petrosal Sinus (Fig. 161, 14) will he opened by carrying the knife from the foramen jugulare, directly forwards along the lower border of the petrous hone to the clinoid process. It communicates with the cavernous sinus, and with the jugular vein outside the skull, passing through the foramen jugulare in front of the 8th pair. The Cavernous Sinus (Fig. 161, 8) is placed hy the side of the pituitary hody, and requires careful dissection on account of the nerves in relation with it. They are the 3rd, 4th, ophthalmic division of the 5th, and 6th, and their positions should he at once ascertained. The 3rd, of good size (1), will he recognised close behind the anterior clinoid process; the 4th, very small (3), in the cut edge of the tentorium ; the ophthalmic division of the otli, the largest and somewhat flattened out (5), will he seen immediately beneath the tentorium ; and the 6th, piercing the dura mater nearer the median line, upon the basilar process (9). [The left sinus will he found the most convenient for dissection, and should therefore he taken first. The 4th nerve is to he follow ed out carefully to the sphenoidal fissure by dividing the dura mater with a sharp knife, and the 3rd should he taken next. The dura mater over the 5th, having been freely divided, should be torn up. from the hone, hy which means and a very little dissection, the Gasserian ganglion and middle meningeal artery will he brought fully into view.] The Gasserian Ganglion (Fig. 161, 5) (Ganglion Semilunare) is the largest of the cranial ganglia, is of a pinkish colour, and is placed upon the tip of the petrous portion of the temporal hone. It is formed upon the larger or sensory portion of the 5th, and the smaller or motor portion passes beneath it. From the ganglion the three great divisions of the 5th are to he traced as follows :—The first or ophthalmic division to the sphenoidal fissure ; the second or superior maxillary division to the foramen rotundum; and the third or inferior maxillary division to the foramen ovale. The motor trunk of the nerve joins this last division outside the skull. The ophthal- mic division is seen to pass along the outer side of the cavernous sinus, and to give off a branch (nasal) before it enters the sphenoidal fissure. It also sends a minute recurrent branch (Arnold) to the tentorium cerehelli.