115 POPLITEAL NERVES. Fig. 55. The Internal Popliteal Nerve (Fig. 54,4) is the most superficial of the important structures in the ham. It is one of the divisions of the great sciatic nerve, and passes with a very slight degree of obliquity from the outer to the inner side of the ham, extending through the whole length of the space and disappearing beneath the gastrocnemius muscle. It thus crosses from the outer to the inner side of the popliteal artery, which it accompanies to the lower border of the popliteus muscle. Its branches are (1) articular, which pierce the posterior surface of the knee-joint and accom- pany the inferior internal and azygos articular arteries ; (2) muscular to the gastrocnemius, soleus, plantaris, and popliteus ; and (3) the external saphe- nous nerve or ramus communicans tibialis, which lies in the groove between the heads of the gastrocne- mius (sometimes beneath a few of its fibres), and will be traced in the dis- section of the back of the leg. The External Popliteal Nerve or Peroneal (Fig. 55, 8), the other division of the great sciatic, is alto- gether under cover of the biceps at the upper part of the space, but be- comes visible close to its tendon near the head of the fibula. It gives a com- municating branch (ramus communi- cans peronei veljibularis) down the 'back of the leg to join the external _ j, — ■ - Fig. 55.—Deep dissection of the popliteal space (from Hirsehfeld and Leveille. 1. Adductor magnus. 2. Vastus extemus. 3. Popliteal vein. 4. Great sciatic nerve. 5. Popliteal artery. 6. Short head of biceps. 7. Internal popliteal nerve. 8. External popliteal nerve. 9. Vastus internus. 10. Long head of biceps (cut). 11. Superior internal articular artery. 12. Outer head of gastrocnemius. 13. Tendon of semi-membranosus. 14. Communicans peronei nerve. 15. Inner head of gastrocnemius. 16. Soleus. 17. Inferior internal articular artery. 18. Gastrocnemius. 19. Popliteus. 20. External saphenous vein and nerve. 21. Tendon of plantaris. 1 2