THE OSSICULA AUDITUS. 407 brane of the tympanum; anterior to these a slight eminence (3) the promontory corresponding to the first turn of the cochlea, and marked by slight grooves for the tympanic plexus and Jacobson’s nerve ; and, posterior to the fenestra ovalis and fenestra rotunda and close to the opening of the mastoid cells, (4) the pyramid, a conical projection of bone pierced at the top by a small hole, through which the stapedius muscle works. The Aqueduct of Fallopius, or canal for the facial nerve, forms a slight projection curving behind the pyramid and above the fenestra ovalis, and may be opened with bone-forceps in the part which has not been already divided with the saw. It extends from the bottom of the meatus auditorius internus to the stylo-mastoid foramen. In the upper part of the canal is the intumescentia ganglioformis, an enlargement of the facial nerve at the point where it is joined by the petrosal nerves through the hiatus Fallopii. The facial nerve in this part of its course gives off a minute branch to the stapedius muscle, and the chorda tympani. The Chorda Tympani (Fig. 212, 9) enters the tympanum close to the pyramid, and passes forward, between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, to an opening between the Glas- serian fissure and the Eustachian tube (canal of Huguier), by which it leaves the temporal bone to join the lingual nerve (p. 369). The Ossicula Auditus (Fig. 212) are the malleus, incus, and stapes. The Malleus (hammer) (4) consists of a head, neck, handle (manubrium), and two processes (processus gracilis and processus brevis). The head articulates with the incus ; the manubrium is in- serted between the mucous and fibrous layers of the membrana tym- pani ; the processus gracilis is inserted into the Glasserian fissure ; the processus brevis gives attachment to the tensor tympani muscle. The Incus (anvil) (6) consists of a body and two processes. The body articulates with the head of the malleus; the short process is attached to the margin of the orifice of the mastoid cells ; the long process is nearly parallel to the handle of the malleus, and has at its extremity a small nodule of bone, the os orbiculare, which in the foetus is separate, but becomes united in adult life and articulates with the stapes. The Stapes (stirrup) is articulated by its head with the long process of the incus, and at right angles to it. The base, (at which the two crura unite) ij attached to the fenestra ovalis ; the neck gives attach- ment to the small stapedius muscle. The Muscles of the Tympanum are three in number, viz., the tensor tympani, laxator tympani, and stapedius ; but some anatomists add a fourth, the laxator tympani minor.