65 MUSCLES OF THE THUMB. Fig. 25. Muscles of the Thumb. The Abductor Pollicis (Fig. 25. 2) is a slender muscle, and is the most superficial of the series. It arises from the ridge on the trapezium, and from the annular ligament. It is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, with the outer half of the flexor brevis. It must be divided to see the following :— The Opponens Pollicis (Fig. 25, 3) arises from the front of the trapezium and from the annular ligament, and is inserted into the outer border of the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the thumb. Its action is to “oppose” the thumb to the fingers, an action peculiar to man and monkeys, the muscle being sometimes called the flexor ossis metacarpi pollicis. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis (Fig. 25, 4) consists of two por- tions at its insertion, between which the tendon of the long flexor is placed, one head being more or less conjoined with the adductor, and the other with the abductor pollicis. It arises from the lower part of the annular ligament, from the front of the trapezium, trapezoides and os magnum, the bases of the second and third metacarpal bones, and the sheath of the flexor carpi radialis. The two heads are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb, and into the sesamoid bones which are developed at this Fig. 25.—Muscles of the hand (from Vi llson). 1. Annular ligament. 2,2. Origin and insertion of the abductor pollicis muscle. 3. Opponens pollicis. 4. Superficial portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 5. Deep portion of the flexor brevis pollicis. 6. Adductor pollicis. 7. 7- The lumbricates muscles, arising from the deep flexor tendons, upon which the figures are placed. The tendons of the flexor sublimis have been re- moved. 8. Insertion of one of the tendons of the deep flexor. 9. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis, passing between the two portions of the flexor brevis to the last phalanx. 10. Abductor minimi digiti. 11. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 12. Pisiform bone. 13. First dorsal interosseous muscle, the abductor indicis. F