253 THE KIDNEY. nourishment of the tissue of the organ, and has little if anything to do with its function. It gives off vaginal branches which run in the portal canals, and capsular branches which supply the fibrous tissue on the surface, the blood being eventually returned into branches of the portal vein. The interlobular branches accompany the inter- lobular veins, and their blood enters the plexus within the lobules from which the bile is secreted. The Kidney (Fig. 116) is convex on its anterior and flattened on its posterior surface, and its upper extremity is somewhat larger than the lower. Its outer border is convex and regular, while the internal is notched at the point where the vessels enter. An average kidney measures about four inches in length, two-and-a-half in breadth, and rather over an inch in thickness. Its weight in the male is about 4-3>- ounces, and rather less in the female. The renal artery enters, and the renal vein and ureter emerge at a slit on the inner border called the hilum, and the trunks of the vessels have the following relation from before backwards, viz., vein, artery, and ureter (compare vessels entering transverse fissure of liver in the reverse order, p. 350). Very generally, however, one of the branches of the renal artery will enter the hilum in front of the vein. The ureter, if traced upwards, will be found to expand, forming the pelvis of the kidney, and it should be noticed that the pelvis has a direction downwards, so that by referring to this, to the position of the vessels, and to the flattening of the posterior surface, the side to which the kidney belongs can be readily ascertained. The kidney is enclosed in a tough fibrous capsule, which may be peeled off to see the kidney substance. To see the internal structure of the organ it should be opened through the convex border by a vertical incision, which is to be carried into the pelvis. The Pelvis (Fig. 138, 6) will be found to be subdivided at the upper, middle, and lower part of the kidney into three portions, which are called the Infundibula (5), and are again subdivided into the Calices. Projecting into the calices are small nodules of kidney substance termed the papilla: or mammilla? (4), which will be seen to be the apices of certain triangular dark-coloured bodies called the pyramids of Malpighi or cones (3). These pyramids, which are arranged more or less regularly side by side, constitute what is called the tubular or medullary substance of the kidney, the lighter granular portion at the margin of the section being the cortical substance (2). The renal artery breaks up into four or five branches, which again subdivide and pass between the pyramids to the cortical substance, forming arches between the cortical and medullary portion. From