THE BUTTOCK. 108 ■will be examined in succession. In order to clean the muscles, the thigh must be well rotated inwards, and in the case of the gluteus iuedius, it must be crossed beneath the opposite limb.] The Gluteus Medius (Fig. 53, 2) arises from the dorsum ilii between the superior and middle curved lines, and from the fascia covering its anterior part. The fibres converge to be inserted into the outer surface of the great trochanter, extending obliquely from its posterior superior angle downwards and forwards. The anterior border of the gluteus medius is united with the minimus, which lies beneath it. The insertion of the gluteus medius is best seen when the muscle has been divided. [The gluteus medius is to be divided close to its origin without injuring the gluteus minimus, the separation from which is marked by an artery; and the anterior borders of the muscles having been separated with the scalpel, the gluteus medius is to be turned down without injuring the vessels and nerves beneath. A bursa will be found on the great trochanter beneath the tendon.] The Gluteus Minimus (Fig. 52, 8) arises from the dorsum ilii between the middle and inferior curved lines, being united by its anterior border with the gluteus medius. It is inserted into the anterior surface of the great trochanter. The two smaller glutei muscles assist in maintaining the erect posture by fixing the pelvis on the femur, or if the pelvis be fixed, they act as abductors and rotators of the thigh, the gluteus minimus and the anterior portion of the medius rotating inwards, and the posterior portion of the medius rotating outwards. They are both supplied by the superior gluteal nerve. The Pyriformis (Fig. 52, 9) is only partly seen in the dissection of the buttock. It arises from the front of the lateral mass of the sacrum between the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral foramina, and often from the great sacro-sciatic ligament; and passing out of the great sacro-sciatic foramen ends in a round tendon, which is inserted into a distinct depression at the posterior part of the upper margin of the great trochanter. The muscle is occasionally divided into two parts by the passage of a portion of the great sciatic nerve through its fibres. The pyriformis is an external rotator of the thigh, and is supplied by brariches of the sacral nerves within the pelvis. In order to see the remaining muscles satisfactorily, the sciatic nerves should be drawn aside over the tuberosity of the ischium. The Obturator Tnternus and Gemelli (Fig. 52, 11).—Only the tendon of the obturator interims is now seen, the muscle arising from