469 FIRST LAYER OF MUSCLES. occipital protuberance and inner third of the superior curved line of the occipital bone ; from the ligamentum nuchse and seventh cervical spinous process; and from the spinous processes of all the dorsal vertebra. The fibres converge to be inserted into the outer third of the posterior border of the clavicle, and into the upper border of the acromion process and spine of the scapula. The fibres thus have different directions, and the action of the muscle upon the scapula is said to vary according to the fibres brought into use. The action of the entire muscle is to draw the scapula towards the spine, and thus the two trapezii throw back the shoulders. When the scapula; are fixed by other muscles, the two trapezii throw the head back, or one muscle acting by itself would draw the head and spine to that side. The trapezius has been seen to be supplied by the spinal-accessory nerve and branches of the deep cervical plexus, it also receives branches from the posterior divisions of the nerves which pierce it. The Ligamentum Nuclice is a band of white fibrous tissue, which extends from the prominent spinous process of the seventh cervical vertebra to the external occipital protuberance, being connected by small slips with the spines of the intervening vertebrae. It intervenes between, and gives origin to, the muscles of the two sides of the neck, and in the lower animals, being composed of yellow elastic tissue, it gives an important support to the head. The Latissimus Dorsi (Fig. 245, 4) arises by a tendinous origin from the posterior half of the outer lip of the crest of the ilium and the back of the sacrum ; from all the lumbar and the six lower dorsal spines; and from the outer surfaces of the three lower ribs, inter- digitating vdtli the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The' broad muscular fibres become collected together as they wind round the inferior angle of the scapula, to which they sometimes have a slight attachment, and then pass forward and upward in front of the teres major, to be inserted into the bottom of the bicipital groove of the humerus. The fibres of the muscle are twisted, so that those which were highest at their origin are lowest at the insertion and vice versd. The latissimus dorsi, when taking its fixed point below, rotates the humerus inwards and then draws it behind the back, the two muscles, is seen attached to the spinous 18. Infraspinatus, processes below the origin of 19. Teres minor, rhomboideus major. 20. Teres major. 15. Vertebral aponeurosis. 21. Long head of triceps. 16. Serratus posticus inferior. 22, Serratus magnus. 17. Supraspinatus. 23. Obliquus intemus.