98 FRONT OF THE THIGH. externus and the crureus to the knee joint, where it anastomoses with the superior external articular branch of the popliteal artery. The Vastus Externus (Fig. 47, 7) is the largest of three muscles in front of the femur. It arises from the root of the great trochanter and the line leading from it to the linea aspera ; from the outer side of the upper half of the linea aspera and adjacent part of the shaft of the femur ; and from the external intermuscular septum. Its fibres end in a broad aponeurosis which is inserted partly into the outer side of the patella, blending with the rectus, and partly into the head of the tibia, forming a portion of the anterior ligament of the knee joint and being blended with the fascia. The Vastus Interims (Fig. 47, 8) is more or less united with the crureus. It arises from the inner side of the linea aspera and from the adjacent bone as high as the insertion of the iliacus below the lesser trochanter; from the upper half of the inner division of the linea aspera ; and from the internal intermuscular septum. Its tendon resembles that of the vastus externus, and is inserted into the inner side of the patella and the head of the tibia, forming part of the anterior ligament of the knee, and being blended with the adjacent tendons and fascia.^ The origin of the lower part of the muscle cannot be seen quite distinctly at present, since its inner border is united by a piece of fascia with the tendon of the adductor longus to form a tendinous covering to the femoral vessels (Hunter’s canal). The Crureus covers the front of the femur between the two vasti muscles, with the inner of which it is often so united as to form one muscle. It arises from the anterior surface of the femur, from the anterior intertrochanteric line to about four inches from the lower end of the bone, and is inserted into the patella with the other extensor muscles. Its surface is tendinous, to allow free movement of the rectus upon it. The small subcrureus muscle will be best dissected with the knee joint. The quadriceps extensor is the great extensor of the leg upon the thigh, and is therefore in constant requisition in standing and walking. The rectus in addition flexes the thigh upon the pelvis when the leg is fully extended ; also when the leg is fixed it steadies the pelvis upon the femur or draws it forward. The quadriceps extensor is supplied by the anterior crural nerve. Surgery.—These powerful muscles occasionally fracture the patella transversely by their violent and sudden action, the bone being snapped across the condyles of the femur, and the upper