225 THE DIAPHRAGM. and reaches as low as the third vertebra and the intervertebral sub- stance below it, but the left reaches only the second lumbar vertebra. All the fibres of the diaphragm are inserted into the central cordi- form or trefoil tendon, but the inner fibres of the crura decussate with one another and form a figure-of-8 before they pass into the tendon, ^hus surrounding the aorta and oesophagus. Openings.—There are three large openings in the diaphragm, viz., ^he Aortic, the (Esophageal, and the Vena Caval openings, and two or three small orifices in the crura for the splanchnic nerves and vena azygos minor, and also for the vena azygos major if it does not pass through the aortic opening. The Aortic and Oesophageal openings are in the loops formed by the crura, and the front or oesophageal one, which is also to the left side, is entirely muscular; but that for the aorta will be found upon dissection to become tendinous, owing to some deep fibreswhich pass transversely over the vessel. The aortic opening is strictly speaking behind the diaphragm, being bounded posteriorly by the vertebral column. The opening for the Vena Cava is more or less quadrilateral (fora- men quadratum), is situated in the right division of the cordifonn tendon, and is entirely tendinous. Through the aortic orifice pass the aorta, the vena azygos major, and the thoracic duct; through the oesophageal opening, the oesopha- gus with the two pneumogastric nerves ; through the quadrilateral opening, the vena cava inferior, which is firmly attached to the mar- gins of the opening, and also a branch of the phrenic nerve. The greater and lesser splanchnic nerves pass through a slit in each crus, and the vena azygos minor (if it exists) passes through the left eras. The gangliated cord of the sympathetic is continued into the abdomen from the thorax beneath the ligamentum arcuatum internum. The position of the diaphragm alters considerably during inspira- tion, for the muscle then becomes flattened, and slopes downwards and backwards so as to deepen the posterior part of the chest. The diaphragm is supplied by the phrenic nerves from the cervical plexus, which, after traversing the thorax, pierce the fibres of the muscle and are distributed principally on its under surface. Its arteries are the phrenic, from the abdominal aorta, on the under surface, and the mus- culo-phrenic from the internal mammary. This last will be seen when the upper surface of the diaphragm is dissected with the Thorax. [The vessels and muscles of the abdominal cavity are now to be cleaned. Around the aorta and its branches will be found a quantity of tough tissue, which is the sympathetic nerve giving off plexuses to Q