335 THE INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. may usually be recognised by the fact that the 9th nerve (hypo- glossal) hooks round it. The occipital artery crosses the following important structures, the hypoglossal nerve, internal carotid artery, pneumo-gastric nerve, internal jugular vein, spinal-accessory nerve, and sympathetic trunk. It gives a small posterior meningeal branch to enter the jugular foramen. The Posterior Auricular Artery runs along the upper border of the digastric, and can only be seen by turning that muscle a little down. At the mastoid process it gives the stylo-mastoid branch to the stylo-mastoid foramen, and then supplies the pinna. The Sterno-Mastoid Artery is a small branch of uncertain origin, coming either from the external carotid artery near its commencement, or from the occipital or superior thyroid arteries, or both the latter. It is of small size and enters the under surface of the sterno-mastoid muscle, crossing the carotid sheath. Veins corresponding to the branches of the external carotid artery take nearly the same courses as those vessels, and terminate as follows : The internal maxillary and temporal veins unite in the parotid to form the teinporo-maxillary vein, which afterwards receives the posterior auricular vein. At the angle of the jaw this divides into the External Jugular and the facial communi- cating. The latter joins the facial vein to form the common facial, which enters the Internal Jugular. All the other veins open into the Internal Jugular Vein directly, or into an Anterior Jugular if one exists. The Internal Jugular Vein (Fig. 177, 5) is deeply placed to the outer side of the internal carotid artery immediately below the base of the skull, being crossed by the styloid process and stylo- pharyngeus muscle, and the spinal accessory nerve, which, however, is sometimes beneath the vein. Having been crossed by the digastric and stylo-liyoid and the occipital artery, it is covered by the sterno- mastoid for the rest of its course. It lies to the outer side of the internal and common carotid arteries, having the pneumo-gastric nerve between it and them, and is enclosed in the carotid sheath of cervical fascia. The internal jugular vein receives the facial, lingual, occipital, pharyngeal, superior and middle thyroid veins, and unites with the subclavian vein to form the vena innominata. In the angle formed by the junction of the two veins, on the left side of the body, and taking a slightly curved course on the surface of the anterior scalene muscle, will be found the termination of the Thoracic Duct. This tube should be carefully preserved, and will be subsequently more fully dissected. A corresponding but much