VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 238 The Vena Azygos Major may he seen lying close to the right side of the aorta, and communicating with one or more of the lumbar veins. It passes through the aortic opening. The Vena Azygos Minor (if it exists) may be seen to commence in the left lumbar veins, and to pass through the left crus of the ■diaphragm. Receptaculum Chyli.—By detaching the right crus of the dia- phragm from the vertebra1, and if necessary, removing a piece of the aorta opposite the upper lumbar vertebrae, the receptaculum chyli, an irregular tube about two inches long, will be seen lying to the right side of the aorta, opposite the second lumbar vertebra. It receives the lymphatics and lacteals of the abdomen, and is continued upwards as the thoracic duct. The subject will now be turned for the dissection of the back, and the dissectors of the abdomen should occupy the time with the examination of the viscera. Viscera of the Abdomen. [The stomach and intestines should be cleaned by allowing a stream of water to pass through them ; and the stomach, as well as a piece of small and large intestine, should be distended with air by means of a blow-pipe, so as to permit of dissection of its coats.] The Stomach (Fig. 119) presents a lesser and a greater curvature at its upper and lower borders, and a greater and lesser end. The great end is the dilatation on the left side of the body near the en- trance of the oesophagus, and is called the cardiac or splenic end, or sometimes known as the fundus. The small or pyloric end presents a small dilatation called the antrum of the pylorus, and terminates in the duodenum, the junction of the two viscera being marked by a thickened band of fibres which can both be seen and felt, and is called the pylorus. The coats of the stomach are four—serous, muscular, areolar, and mucous. The serous coat is continuous with the lesser omentum above, and with the great omentum below ; that in front of the stomach being derived from the greater bag, and that behind from the lesser bag of the peritonenm. Along the lesser and greater curvatures the two layers of peritoneum are separated by the pyloric and gastro-epiploic vessels. The muscular coat consists of three sets of unstriped fibres, longi- tudinal, circular and oblique. The longitudinal fibres are continuous