LIGAMENTS OF THE LEG. 156 lunar cartilage ; 3, Anterior crucial ligament; 4, Anterior extremity of external semilunar cartilage ; 5, Posterior extremity of external semilunar cartilage; 6, Posterior extremity of internal semilunar cartilage ; 7, Posterior crucial ligament. The Synovial Membrane (Fig. 82) extends for at least two inches above the articular surface of the femur, forming a pouch beneath the extensor muscles. It is reflected from the articular surface of the femur over the crucial ligaments to the articular surface of the tibia, covering both aspects of the semilunar cartilages, and then lines the capsular ligament. It gives a tube around the tendon of the popliteus where it is within the capsule, and has already been seen to form the ligamentum mucosum and ligamenta alaria. Tibio-Fibular Articulations. [The whole of the muscular fibres connected with the bones of the leg and foot must be removed, but the tendinous insertions about the foot should be kept to be examined with the ligaments.] The Superior tibio-fibular articulation (Fig. 81) is a simple arthro- dial joint, the synovial membrane of which is occasionally continuous with that of the knee. The anterior and posterior ligaments are short bands connecting the anterior and posterior surfaces of the head of the fibula with the outer tuberosity of the tibia. The Middle tibio-fibular articulation is formed by the interosseous ligament or membrane, which is the great bond between the shafts of the bones of the leg, its fibres running downwards from the tibia to the fibula. It is attached to the sharp interosseous borders of both bones in all their lower parts, a hole being made above by the passage of the anterior tibial vessels. The membrane has an opening in it near the lower part, through which the anterior peroneal artery reaches the front of the leg. Fig. 83.—Posterior view of the ankle-joint (from Wilson). 1. Lower part of the interosseous membrane. 2. Posterior inferior tibio-fibular ligament. 3. Transverse ligament. 4. Internal lateral ligament. 5. Posterior fasciculus of the exter- nal lateral ligament. G. Middle fasciculus of the external lateral ligament. 7. Posterior ligament of the ankle- joint. 8. Posteriortuberosityof the os calcis.