THE CAVITY OF THE NOSE. 399 turbinate bones and meatuses of the nose on the opposite side. The saw being placed on one side of the septum and parallel to it, is to be carried through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone and the palatine processes of tire maxillary and palate bones; and the soft palate having been split in the middle line, the skull will be divided into two portions, one of which can be used for the examination of the nose, and the other for the dissection of Meckel’s ganglion, etc.] The Septum Narium (Fig. 210, i) is .a vertical [date, which upon removal of the mucous membrane will be found to be partly bony and partly cartilaginous. The bones entering into its formation are the following :—the crest of the nasal bone, the nasal spine of the frontal bone, the large perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, the vomer, a part of the rostrum of the sphenoid bone, and the crests of the maxillary and palate bones upon which the vomer rests below. The cartilage of the septum is triangular in shape, and lits into the interval between the vertical plate of the ethmoid and the vomer, but it not unfrequently extends backwards for a considerable distance between those bones when they are not so fully developed as usual. The whole septum may be bent considerably to one side as the result of congenital malformation or of violence, and the cartilage may be perforated either congenitally or from disease. The vomer presents an oblique groove for the naso-palatine nerve, which will be afterwards seen upon the opposite side of the bone. [The septum is to be removed piecemeal with the bone-forceps, so as to leave the mucous membrane on the opposite side untouched. The naso-palatine nerve and artery, and some branches of the olfactory nerve at the upper part of the membrane, niay be seen if putrefaction is not too far advanced. The mucous membrane is then to be de- tached below and turned up, when the nasal cavity will be exposed.] The Nasal Fossa (Fig. 209) is a cavity bounded above by a roof which slopes anteriorly and posteriorly, but is horizontal in the middle, being formed anteriorly by the nasal bone and the nasal spine of the frontal bone ; in the middle by the horizontal cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone ; and posteriorly by the under surfaces of the body of the sphenoid bone and of the sphenoidal process of the palate bone. The floor is slightly concave from side to side, and is formed by the palatine processes of the maxillary and palate bones. The inner wall is formed by the septum, which has been examined. The outer wall is divided into three meatuses by the projection from it of the three turbinate bones, of which the two upper are portions of the ethmoid bone, but the lowest is a separate bone articulated upon the orifice of the antrum.