202 INGUINAL HERNIA. muscle as the linea semilunaris, and the transverse markings, three or four in number, are the linece transverse.] The Sheath of the Rectus (Fig. 108) having been opened by a vertical incision, will be found to be formed by the tendon of the internal oblique, which splits at the linea semilunaris to enclose it. Thus in front of the muscle there is the tendon of the obliquus extemus and one-lialf of the tendon of the obliquus internus, whilst behind is the other half of the tendon of the obliquus internus and the tendon of the transversalis. This arrangement does not hold good throughout, for upon lifting up the lower part of the rectus it will be found that a little below the umbilicus (seldom so low as midway between the umbilicus and pubes) the sheath is wanting behind, i.e. it passes entirely in front, and there is nothing between the muscle and the peritoneum but the fascia transversalis. The point where the sheath ceases to pass behind the rectus is marked by a sharp curved margin (fold of Douglas), over which the epigastric vessels will be seen to pass, and which will be after- wards seen from behind (Fig. 105, c). [In many subjects immediately above the pubes, in front of the rectus and enclosed in its sheath, will be found a little muscular slip, the pyramidalis. Both muscles are to be cleaned in the direction of their fibres.] The Pyramidalis (Fig. 94) arises from the crest of the pubes close to the median line, and passes up for about two inches to be inserted into the linea alba. The Rectus Abdominis (Fig. 94, 5) arises by two heads, one from the crest and the other from the symphysis pubis. It expands into a broad thin muscle, and is inserted into the ensiform cartilage and into the cartilages of the last three true ribs (5tli, 6th, and 7th). The linese transversse are tendinous intersections corresponding to abdominal ribs ; one is placed nearly opposite the umbilicus, a second at the level of the ensiform cartilage, and a third between them. A fourth is occasionally found between the umbilicus and the pubes. The Epigastric Artery (Fig. 100) is to be traced into the rectus muscle, which it will be found to enter at the part where the sheath is deficient, passing over the fold of Douglas. The muscle should be divided and carefully dissected off the artery, which may be traced up to the sternum, where it anastomoses with the internal mammary artery. This is a most important anastomosis, forming a direct communication between the subclavian and the external