28G FEMALE PELVIC VISCERA. ligament, 13) is attached to the ovary, and serves to direct the tube form transverse rugce. Two longitudinal ridges, at the anterior and posterior surfaces of the vagina, have been named the columns of the vagina. At the upper part of the vagina the cervix uteri projects into its cavity, and the vagina will he found to he attached higher on its posterior than its anterior surface. At the lower end will be found the carunculce myrtiformes and remains of the hymen, and outside the vagina may he found the two small glands of Bartholin, the ducts of which open within the nymphse. The Uterus (Fig. 157, i) is more or less pyriform in shape, the fundus or upper part of the body being broad and somewhat flattened from before backwards, and the lower end or cervix being cylindrical. The cervix is perforated by the os uteri externum, (os tincoe), a trans- verse opening which divides it into two lips, anterior and posterior, of which the anterior is the thicker. [The anterior wall is to be divided vertically with scissors, and the cut prolonged on each side towards the Fallopian tube.] Immediately within the os uteri on the posterior aspect of the cervix, is seen a vertical ridge with oblique ridges radiating from it, producing the appearance known as the arbor vital. A similar appearance in the mucous membrane of the anterior surface of the cervix has been necessarily destroyed by the incision. Above the canal of the cervix is the os interum, wliich opens into the general cavity of the uterus. The cavity of the uterus is triangular in shape, the apex being downwards and the extremities of the base corresponding with the orifices of the Fallopian tubes. It is lined by a smooth mucous membrane, in which are the orifices of numerous small glands. The uterus is composed of pale unstripecl muscular fibre together with a large quantity of areolar tissue. In pregnancy the muscular fibres become much developed, and are divisible into three layers. The nerves of the uterus are derived from the hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic, and’ Dr. Robert Lee has described numerous ganglia on the surface of the organ, and believes that the nerves enlarge during pregnancy. The Fallopian Tube (Fig. 157, 9) is found at the upper part of the broad ligament on each side of the uterus, into the angles of wliich the two tubes open. Each tube is about four inches long and of very small calibre at the uterus, but gradually expands to form the fimbriated extremity, a trumpet-shaped opening surrounded by fringe-like processes (fimbricc). One of the fimbriae (fallopio-ovarian