274 THE PELVIS. derived from the junction of the lumbo-sacral with the first sacral nerve. [The pelvic viscera are now to he removed by carefully detaching the urethra and bladder from the pubes, dividing the levator ani, and severing the slight connections between the rectum and coccyx. The whole of the urinary and genital organs should be carefully pre- served for after-examination. The sacral nerves can now be dissected on both sides of the pelvis, and in order to see them clearly it will be well to remove the remaining branches of the internal iliac artery. All the branches of the sacral nerves should be preserved, and care be taken not to remove the gangliated' cord and hypogastric plexus of the sympathetic. The upper sacral nerves will be readily seen emerging from the foramina, but the fifth Sacral and the coccygeal nerve will be found piercing the coccygeus muscle close to the side of the coccyx.] The Sacral Plexus (Fig. 151) is formed by the upper four sacral nerves and the lumbo-sacral cord derived from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves, which is seen descending into the pelvis. The several nerves as they leave the sacral foramina receive branches from the gangliated cord of the sympathetic, which is internal to them, and then lying on the pyriformis muscle they unite to form one large flat band, which is the plexus. This is seen to disappear through the great sacro-sciatic foramen immediately above the lesser sacro-sciatic liga- ment, and by looking at the outside of the pelvis, the dissector will be able to see the three nerves into which it divides, viz., Great Sciatic, Small Sciatic, and Internal Pudic ; and to trace the pudic nerve around the spine of the ischium and through the lesser sacro- sciatic foramen to the perinseum. Branches within the Pelvis. A couple of branches are given to the pyriformis, either from the plexus or from the sacral nerves before they unite. The nerve to the obturator internus (26) arises at the point of union of the lumbo-sacral with the first sacral nerve and, lying on the anterior surface of the plexus, passes with the pudic nerve through the sacro-sciatic foramina to the inner surface of the muscle, supplying in its course the gemellus superior. The nerve to the qiiadratus from the lower part of the plexus, or sometimes from the great sciatic nerve, passes out beneath that nerve close upon the hip-joint, and supplies the quadratus and the gemellus inferior (p. 113). At the upper margin of the great sacro-sciatic foramen will be seen the superior gluteal nerve (15), derived frorti the lumbo-sacral cord