THE COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. 331 gastric muscle, and the superior laryngeal branch of the pneumo- gastric crosses behind them a little lower down.] The Common Carotid Artery (Fig. 177, 14) has the same re- lations on both sides of the neck from the sterno-clavicular articula- tion upwards, though its origin is different on the two sides. On the right side it commences at the stemo-clavicular articulation, by the bifurcation of the innominate into common carotid and subclavian arteries, but on the left side it begins at the arch of the aorta. Its direction in the neck is upwards and a little outwards, and would be sufficiently indicated by a line from the end of the clavicle to the external auditory meatus. It ordinarily divides at the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage into external and internal carotids, which lie at first side by side, the external being nearer the median line. It has in front of it the sternal origin and anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and the lower parts of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles ; it is crossed by the omo-hyoid muscle and superior thyroid vein, and quite superficially by the platysma ; close upon the vessel throughout are the descendens noni nerve and the sheath, and cross- ing the sheath at the lower part is the middle thyroid vein, and at a variable point the sterno-mastoid artery. Behind the artery are the sheath, the sympathetic cord, and its middle cervical ganglion ; the inferior thyroid artery, and the longus colli and rectus capitis anticus major muscles. To its outer side are the pneumo-gastric nerve and the internal jugular vein ; and to the inner side the trachea, larynx, and thyroid body; the pharynx, oesophagus, and recurrent laryngeal nerve. The point of bifurcation of the common carotid may vary a little, but is more frequently above than below the thyroid cartilage. Surgery.—To tie the common carotid artery (Fig. 166, e). This may be accomplished either above or below the omo-hyoid, but above the muscle is the better situation. An incision three inches in length along the anterior border of the sterno-mastoid, beginning at the level of the hyoid bone, will allow that muscle to be turned out- wards sufficiently to bring the omo-hyoid into view. In the angle between the two muscles the carotid is to be found, and this part of the operation will be much facilitated by slightly reflecting the omo- hyoid towards the median line (Fig. 164). The descendens noni nerve may be seen on the sheath of the vessels, and is to be avoided, and the sheath is to be carefully opened on its inner side so as to avoid possible injury to the internal jugular