SYMPATHETIC NERVE. 237 dorsal; the remainder of the 4th joining with the 5th to form the lumbo-sacral cord. The several nervous trunks unite more or less,, and from them the nerves are given off thus :—from the 1st the ilio- hypogastric and the ilio inguinal nerves ; from the 1st and 2nd the genito-crural nerve; from the 2nd and 3rd the external cutaneous nerve ; from the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th the anterior crural nerve ; from the 3rd and 4th the obturator nerve. Thus it will be seen that the origins of the nerves are very simple, a nerve being added or sub- tracted in regular sequence, as follows :— Sympathetic Nerve (Fig. 113).—On each side of the aorta and close to the crura of the diaphragm will be seen an irregular mass of a somewhat crescentic form, called the semi-lunar ganglion, and into it the great splanchnic nerve from the thoracic ganglia may be traced. The Solar -plexus is formed by fibres crossing from one semi-lunar ganglion to the other, and receives a branch from the right pneumo- gastric. Its continuation, the aortic plexus, will have been mere or less seen in cleaning the aorta, and so also the secondary plexuses derived from it and distributed upon the several branches, viz., the phrenic plexus, gastric plexus, hepatic plexus, splenic plexus, superior mesenteric plexus, supra-renal plexus, renal plexus, spermatic plexus, and inferior mesenteric plexus. In addition to the great splanchnic nerve, the lesser splanchnic nerve may, in a favourable subject, be trJfced into the eoeliac plexus, and the third or least splanchnic nerve into the renal plexus. The Gangliated Cord of the Sympathetic (Fig. 118, i) will be found on each side of the spinal column, and behind the vena cava upon the right side. A ganglion is situated opposite each vertebra, and branches of communication may be traced from each, which may be divided into (1) those communicating with the ganglia above and below ; (2) those communicating with the spinal nerves, which are often two in number and join the nerves above and below each ganglion ; (3) branches to the plexuses upon the neighbouring- arteries supplying the viscera. Some lymphatic glands (lumbar) may also be found by the side of the aorta at the lower part, which receive the lymphatics from the testis, and are therefore affected in malignant diseases of that 1 . . . Ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal. 12. . Genito-crural. Lumbar nerves< 2 3 . External cutaneous. 2 3 4 Anterior crural. 3 4 Obturator. organ.