6 DISSECTION OF THE ARM. head of the humerus, and indistinctly felt on account of the muscles attached to it, is the coracoid process, and the relation of these bones in health should be fully appreciated. In a muscular subject, a long, nearly vertical groove or dimple at this point marks the separation between the deltoid and pectoralis major ; and another, seen occasionally extending obliquely from near the inner end of the clavicle, marks the division between the sternal and clavicular fibres of the latter muscle. By lifting the arm and drawing it from the body, the anterior and posterior boundaries of the axilla will he made prominent, and the fascia extending from one to the other will be put on the stretch so that the finger cannot he pushed into the •armpit; whereas if the arm is brought to the side the fascia is relaxed, and the finger will readily reach the head and neck of the humerus, with the great vessels and nerves to their inner side, and internal to these again, the wall of the thorax, with probably some lymphatic glands. The brachial artery and nerves can he traced along the inner border of the biceps to the bend of the elbow, and the shaft of the humerus can he readily felt. In front of the elbow is a hollow, corresponding to a space to he afterwards dissected, and occasionally the superficial veins stand out prominently, in which case venesec- tion should he practised. The prominent internal condyle of the humerus and its relation to the olecranon process of the ulna are readily seen, and the ulnar nerve can he felt between the two points of hone. The rounded external condyle, with the ridge leading to it, can he felt in most subjects, as also the head of the radius, which should he rotated, that its relation to the condyle may be better appreciated. In the fore-arm the radius can he but little felt, except at its lower extremity; but the olecranon process and sharp posterior margin of the ulna are always to be distinguished even in very muscular subjects. It should be observed that the ulna is the more prominent of the two bones at its lower end, whilst the end of the radius is a little lower down than that of the ulna ; the styloid process of each can be readily distinguished. The tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi ulnaris are usually prominent, and serve as guides to the radial and ulnar arteries, which may be felt (if injected) to the outer side of each tendon. The metacarpus and phalanges are to be examined, and the advanced student may advantageously amputate one or two fingers (middle or ring). It is to be borne in mind that the transverse markings, on either the palmar or dorsal aspect of the fingers, form no guide to the articulation, which is