42 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. tion of the pronator teres ; (4) the radial origin of the flexor suhlimis ; (5) the flexor longus pollicis ; (6) the pronator quadratus; and (7) the end of the radius.* It has two venae coniites in close relation with it and gives the following branches :— Branches.—1. The radial recurrent runs transversely beneath the supinator longus and gives ascending and descending branches, the ascending anastomosing with the superior profunda branch of the brachial artery. 2. Muscular branches are given off at various points to the adjacent muscles. 3. The superficialis voice arises near the root of the thumb and is of variable size. It runs forward, and generally beneath some of the fibres of the muscles of the thumb, to complete the superficial palmar arch formed by the ulnar artery. 4. The anterior carpal is a small branch which runs across the wrist beneath the deep tendons, to join a corresponding branch of the ulnar artery at the level of the lower border of the pronator quadratus. Surgery (Fig. 7).—The radial artery is readily tied, about an inch above the wrist, by an incision one inch and a half long, placed midway between the tendons of the flexor carpi radialis and supinator longus, when the vessel will be found lying immediately beneath the deep fascia with the venae comites in close connection, but with no nerve near. The artery may be exposed in the upper part by an incision two inches long at any point in a line drawn from the centre of the bend of the elbow to the front of the styloid process of the radius, the knife going at once down to the supinator longus, which must then be carefully turned outwards. The position of the radial nerve to the outer side, in the middle third of the fore-arm, is to be borne in mind and the ligature passed from it. When the radial artery is tied, the circulation is mainly carried on by the ulnar and its branches, the anastomoses at the palmar arches being very free. [The pronator teres is to be divided about its middle, without injuring the median nerve or the origin of the muscle from the ulna,, which can now be thoroughly seen ; and the flexor carpi radialis and palmaris longus are to be divided so as to expose thoroughly the flexor sublimis, which is to be cleaned. The skin of the front of one of the fingers is to be carefully removed without interfering with the palm, and the sheath of the tendons dissected out (Fig. 15).] * The posterior relations of the radial artery are simply the muscles attached to the radius in their order from above downwards.