182 THE FEMALE PERINEUM. The Superficial Perinseal Nerves (Fig. 92) are two in number, and are branches of the pudic nerve. The internal or anterior (13) nerve runs upwards and inwards, entering the pouch of fascia and being distributed to the posterior part of the vulva. The external or posterior (14) nerve is larger, and is distributed over the superficial muscles of the perinseum, forming a junction with the inferior pudendal nerve of Soemmering. The Inferior Pudendal Nerve (Soemmering) (Fig. 92, 16) is a branch of the small sciatic nerve, which pierces the deep fascia of the thigh about an inch in front of the tuberosity of the ischium. It is usually of small size in the female, and runs upwards and inwards to join the external superficial perinseal nerve. [The superficial vessels and nerves are to be turned aside and the muscles dissected out. The muscles are much less distinct than in the male perinseum, and it is impossible to trace all their fibres without maceration and preparation, which it is impracticable for the student to undertake ; he will be able to make out sufficient however to assist materially in following the description.] The Perinseal Body of Savage (Fig. 93, 14) is a structure peculiar to women, consisting of a mass of elastic tissue placed between the orifices of the vagina and rectum, and uniting all the tissues which meet in the central point of the perinseum. Its use appears to be to allow of great stretching, without tearing, during parturition. The Superficial Muscles (Figs. 92 and 93) of the female peri- nseum closely resemble those of the male, with the exception that the two portions of the central muscle (corresponding to the accele- rator urinse) are separated by the vulva. On each side therefore of the vulva will be found the bulbo-cavernosus ; lying on the ramus of the pubes, the erector clitoridis ; and, passing from the tuber ischii to the central point of the perinseum, the transversus perinsei. The Bulbo-Cavernosus (sphincter vaginae) (Fig. 93, 5) arises from the elastic perinceal body between the anus and vagina, two or three of its superficial fibres being prolonged into the sphincter ani ; also from the reflection of the deep layer of superficial fascia (ischio- perinaeal ligament of Savage) for nearly an inch, and decussating with the inner fibres of the transversus. The fibres of the muscle are divisible into three sets, corresponding to those of the accelerator urinae of the male. The anterior fibres pass forward on each side of the vulva to meet those of the opposite muscle upon the clitoris, and to be partially inserted into the sheath of the clitoris ; the middle fibres pass beneath the clitoris and over the great veins upon the