THE SUBMAXILLARY REGION. 370 The Mylo-hyoid Muscle (Fig. 197, 25) arises from the mylo- hyoid ridge on the inner surface of the lower jaw, and its fibres pass downwards and forwards to be inserted into the body of the hyoid bone, and to meet the muscle of the opposite side in a median tendon between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw, thus forming the floor of the mouth. The mylo-hyoid is an elevator of the hyoid bone, and is supplied (with the anterior belly of the digastric) by the mylo-hyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve. [The mylo-hyoid is to be detached from the lower jaw and turned forward, when three structures will be seen lying in the following order from above downwards on the hyo-glossus muscle, viz. the lingual nerve [5tli], the deep portion of the submaxillary gland until Wharton’s duct, and the hypoglossal nerve [9th]. In addition, immediately below the 9th nerve there is very frequently a large vein corresponding to the lingual artery. In front of the hyo-glossus will be seen the genio-hyoid stretching between the chin and the hyoid bone, and a few fibres of the genio-hyo-glossus, together with a branch (ranine) of the lingual artery. The jaw being divided just externally to the genio-hyoid can be turned up, and the tongue being drawn out of the mouth, the fold of mucous membrane forming the frcenum linguce will be seen, and may be divided so as to allow all the parts to be put on the stretch with hooks ; the dissection can be proceeded with by cleaning the submaxillary gland and its duct.] The Submaxillary Gland (Fig. 197, 19) consists of two portions, one, the larger, placed superficially on the mylo-hyoid in the sub- maxillary triangle, and the other winding round the posterior margin of the mylo-hyoid to rest on the hyo-glossus. From this deep portion the duct (Wharton’s) arises, and lies at first between the lingual and hypoglossal nerves, but at the anterior part of the hyo-glossus will be found ascending beneath the lingual nerve to lie at a higher level than it. If followed beneath the mucous membrane of the mouth, the duct will be found to cross again over the lingual nerve at the side of the tongue, and to open into the mouth close to the fraenum linguae. The Sublingual Gland (Fig. 197) is seen beneath the mucous membrane by the side of the tongue, and lies on the genio-hyo-glossus close to Wharton’s duct, into which several of its ducts (ductus Riviniani) open, the others opening into the mouth in a crescent near the fraenum. The Lingual Nerve (Fig. 198, 1) (Gustatory of 5th) appears at the anterior border of the pterygoideus internus, where it lies against the pterygo-maxillary ligament, and afterwards runs between