381 THE SCALENE MUSCLES. pathetic can now he seen, and has been already described (p. 343). It will be much more satisfactorily examined later on, from behind. Prevertebral Region. [The carotid arteries, with the jugular veins and the pneumo-gastric and sympathetic nerves, are to be divided at the level of the top of the sternum, and the trachea with the oesophagus is to be severed a little lower down. The neck is then to be bent forcibly backward so as to make the cut surface of the skull rest upon the table, and the oesophagus and trachea with the vessels and nerves being drawn forcibly forward, the cellular tissue between the pharynx and the front of the vertebral column is to be cautiously dissected through, until the under surface of the base of the skull is exposed. The saw is now to be applied close behind the mastoid process, and an oblique cut made, which is to be carried through the whole thickness of the temporal bone into the jugular foramen, and prolonged through th% remaining portion of the parietal bone to the cut which was made in removing the brain. A similar cut having been made on the oppo- site side, a broad chisel is to be applied to the basilar process of the occipital bone where it is exposed behind the pharynx, and it is to be divided. The chisel being again applied on each side of the middle line will unite this cut with those made by the saw, and the prepara- tion will then be divided into two parts ; the anterior part of the skull with the pharynx and deep vessels and nerves is to be wrapped up for subsequent examination, and the muscles attached to the vertebral column with the posterior part of the skull are now to be examined.] The Scalene muscles have been seen already in part, but can now be fully dissected. The Scalenus Anticus (Fig. 202, 2) arises from the tubercle on the inner border and upper surface of the first rib (scalene tubercle), and ascends to be inserted into the anterior tubercles on the trans- verse processes of the 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th cervical vertebrae. The phrenic nerve will probably still be found on the anterior surface of the muscle, and behind it the brachial nerves emerge and the sub- clavian artery passes. The Scalenus Medius (Fig. 202, 7) lies behind the brachial nerves, arising from the rough marking upon the upper surface of the first rib behind the groove for the subclavian artery. It ascends to be inserted into the posterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the lower six* cervical vertebrae. The Scalenus Posticus (Fig. 202), which is the smallest of the three muscles, arises from a rough mark on the outer surface of the