390 THE PHARYNX. ment; and its fibres ascend and descend obliquely to be inserted into the median raphe of the pharynx. The middle constrictor is overlapped by the inferior constrictor, and itself covers the superior constrictor in part. It is separated from the inferior constrictor by the superior laryngeal nerve and vessels, and from the superior constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and glosso-pharyngeal nerve. The Superior Constrictor (Fig. 205, 11) arises from the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate and from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone ; from the pterygo- maxillary ligament opposite the at- tachment of the buccinator ; from the inner surface of the lower jaw above the posterior extremity of the mylo-hyoid ridge, and slightly from the side of the tongue. The fibres curve backwards, leaving an interval between the muscle and the base of the skull in which the fibrous bag of the pharynx is visible, and are inserted into the median raphe, being overlapped at the lower part by the middle constrictor. Dis- tinct tendinous fibres may occasionally be traced to the tubercle on the under surface of the basilar process, to which the fibrous bag of the pharynx is attached. The superior constrictor is separated from the middle constrictor by the stylo-pharyngeus muscle and glosso- pharyngeal nerve. Above its upper curved border the ascending- pharyngeal artery sends a branch to the palate, together with a branch of the inferior palatine artery, and the levator palati muscle and the Eustachian tube cross obliquely inwards beneath the fibrous bag. Fig. 205.—Side view of the muscles of the pharynx (from Wilson). 1. Trachea. 2. Cricoid-cartilage. 3. Crico-thyroid membrane. 4. Thyroid cartilage. 5. Thyro-hyoid membrane. 6. Os hvoides. 7. Stylo-hyoid ligament. 8. (Esophagus. 9. Inferior constrictor. 10. Middle constrictor. 11. Superior constrictor. 12. Stylo-pharyngeus, passing down between the superior and middle constrictor. 13. Fibrous bag of the pharynx seen above the constrictor. 14. Pterygo-maxillary ligament. 15. Buccinator. 16. Orbicularis oris. 17. Mylo-hyoid.