London: J. & A. CHURCHILL. AN ATLAS OF HUMAN ANATOMY: Illustrating most of the ordinary Dissections, and many not usually practised by the Student. By Rickman J. Godlee, M.S., F.R.C.S., Assistant-Surgeon to University College Hospital, and Senior Demon- strator of Anatomy in University College. With 48 plates (112 figures), exhibiting in colour the Muscles, Arteries, Veins, and Nerves. Imp. 4to ; and a volume of Explanatory Text, with many Engravings. 400 pp. Svo, £4 14s. fid. ' “ There is probably no other atlas published which is entirely the work of one man—dissections, drawing, and text. This is the case in the work before us, and Mr. Godlee is therefore to be specially congratulated in his threefold capa- city of anatomist, artist, and author. We must express our great satisfaction with the work. It will doubtless become as popular as any of its predecessors, and will possess over them the advantage of having been executed by one who is an anatomist as well as a surgeon.”—Medical Times and Gazette. “ A most excellent guide to the student.”—Lancet. “ The extreme value of the plates has been again and again testified to us by students who have derived the surest assistance from them.”—Student's Journal. London: J. & A. CHURCHILL. Containing Thirty-four full-page Photo-lithographic Plates, after Plane Sections of Frozen Bodies, and Forty-six large. Wood Engravings, with full Explanatory Text. Large imp. Svo, 40 s. BEAUNE’S ATLAS OF TOPOGRAPHICAL ANATOMY. Translated by Edward Bellamy, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to and Lec- turer on Anatomy at the Charing Cross Hospital. It is generally admitted that there is a want in this country of a good text-book on Applied Anatomy, not a mere Handbook. By means of the sections found in this Atlas the exact position and the relations of the structures which must be divided or avoided inThe-- course of an operation are indicated, and the track of a bullet or puncture wound suggested ; at the same time they afEord an absolutely correct representation of the intimate relations of the viscera of the thorax and abdomen. “ It will speedilybe found in the hands of every advanced anatomical student, and is absolutely indispensable to the anatomical teacher and to every surgeon, whether in military or civil practice. . . . The translation is extremely well done.”—The Lancet. The finest anatomical work that has been published in this country for a long time.”—Student's Jour. “ Mr. Bellamy has been happily inspired in introducing to the British surgeon and anatomist this most valuable atlas.”—Brit. Med. Jour.