404) meckel’s ganglion. The anterior or great 'palatine nerve (14) descends through the posterior palatine canal to the hard palate, where it forms a junction with the naso-palatine nerve passing through the anterior palatine canal (Fig. 210, g). "Whilst in the canal the nerve gives off inferior nasal branches to the inferior turbinate hone. The middle or external palatine nerve (16) is very small, and descends to the soft palate and tonsil. The posterior or small palatine nerve (17) descends through a small canal behind the great nerve, and is distributed to the soft palate and uvula, supplying the levator palati and the azygos uvulra muscles, i.e. the two elevators of the palate (v. otic ganglion). 3. The internal branches pass through the spheno-palatine foramen to the nose, and are the superior nasal and the naso-palatine nerves. The superior nasal branches (4) supply the mucous membrane of the upper and middle turbinate bones. The naso-palatine nerve (8) crosses the nasal fossa to the septum, along which it passes through a groove in the vomer to the anterior palatine canal. In the canal the left nerve lies in front of the naso- palatine arteries and the right behind them, and both descend to the front of the hard palate to unite with the great palatine nerve. (Fig. 210, e.) 4. The posterior branches are the Vidian and the pterygo-palatine nerves. The Vidian nerve (3) runs through the Vidian canal in the pterygoid process, and divides into superficial petrosal and carotid branches. The superficial petrosal branch (7) pierces the cartilage which fills up the foramen lacerum medium basis cranii, and runs in a groove on the surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone to the hiatus Fallopii, through which it passes to join the facial nerve. The carotid branch (9) joins the sympathetic plexus upon the internal carotid artery. The pterygo-palatine or pharyngeal nerve (11) is very small, and passes through the pterygo-palatine canal to the mucous membrane of the ripper part of the pharynx. The Internal Maxillary Artery gives off the following branches in the spheno-maxillary fossa : the descending palatine. Vidian, pterygo-palatine, spheno-palatine, and infra-orbital, the last of which has been already examined. 1. The posterior or descending palatine artery accompanies the great palatine nerve through the posterior palatine canal. It gives branches to the soft palate and uvula, which descend through the