148 FRONT OF THE LEG AND FOOT. superficially to that of the peroneus brevis behind the external malleolus an£ under the external annular ligament, and the tendon then passes in a sheath of fascia along the outer side of the os calcis to reach the cuboid bone, around which it turns to the sole of the foot. In the sole the tendon lies in the groove of the cuboid bone, and in a fibrous sheath (‘ sheath of peroneus longus ’) which is now to be opened, when the tendon can be traced to its insertion on the outer side of the base of the first metatarsal and internal cuneiform bones. The sheath of the tendon is formed by fibres of the long plantar ligament, and is lined by a synovial membrane. The tendon has a sesamoid cartilage or bone developed in its fibres where it turns round the border of the cuboid bone. The Peroneus Brevis (Fig. 72, 8) lies beneath the tendon of the peroneus longus, and arises from the middle third of the outer surface of the fibula and from the intermuscular septa on each side. It lies upon the lower part of the fibula, and its tendon winds behind the external malleolus, where it is lodged in a groove beneath the tendon of the peroneus longus. It then runs along the outer side of the os calcis in a sheath of fascia in front of the long tendon, and is inserted into the posterior extremity of the fifth metatarsal bone. The peronei act as extensors of the foot, i.e., they point the toes. Both muscles, but especially the peroneus longus, draw up the outer side of the foot, as seen in the form of club-foot called ‘ talipes valgus.’ Both the peronei are supplied by the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The External Popliteal Nerve (Fig. 75, i) is to be followed through the fibres of the peroneus longus, to which it was traced in the dissection of the popliteal space. Before entering the muscle the nerve gives off an external cutaneous branch to the outer side of the knee-joint, and then winding close to the fibula, gives off a recurrent articular branch, which pierces the extensor longus digi- torum to reach the upper part of the tibialis anticus and the front of the knee. It then divides into anterior tibial (4), which pierces the extensor longus digitorum, and musculo-cutaneous (3), which, after giving branches to the peroneus longus and brevis, appears between the peroneus longus and extensor longus digitorum, and finally becomes cutaneous by piercing the fascia in the lower third of the leg. [The tendons on the back of the foot are to be divided or held aside, and the transversus pedis in the sole is to be removed to permit a clear view of all the interossei.] Beneath the transversus will be found the transverse ligament of the metatarsus (Fig. 86, 12) from which its fibres arise, and over which