THE POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. 127 flexor digitorum at the ankle, running through a groove at the hack of the internal malleolus and in the most internal division of the annular ligament to the sole of the foot, where it is attached to the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone and gives slips to all the other bones of the tarsus, except the astragalus, and to the three middle metatarsal bones. The Flexor Longus Pollicis (Fig. 61, 9) is a well-marked penniform muscle, arising from the posterior surface of the fibula below the origin of the soleus to within an inch of the ankle ; and also from the intermuscular septa between it and the peronei muscles on the outer side of the bone, and the tibialis posticus internally. The muscle ends in a tendon which lies to the outer side of the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, and, passing through a separate division of the annular ligament, winds to the sole of the foot through an oblique groove at the back of the astragalus and another below the lesser process of the os calcis. The flexor longus pollicis and flexor digitorum are direct flexors of the toes and extensors of the foot, i.e., they point the toes. The tibialis posticus is also an extensor of the foot, which it tends to draw inwards. The three muscles are supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. Surgery.—The form of club-foot called ‘talipes varus; which causes the patient to walk on the outside of the foot, is due in part to the contraction of the tibialis posticus and sometimes of the flexor digitorum. The operation of dividing these tendons is performed immediately above the internal malleolus, a blunt-pointed tenotomy knife being used after the first incision, to avoid all danger of wound- ing the posterior tibial artery. 1 The Posterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 63, 21) is the direct con- tinuation of the popliteal artery, and begins at the point of bifurca- tion of that vessel, which is usually the lower border of the popliteus muscle. In the upper part of its course the posterior tibial artery lies between the superficial and deep muscles of the back of the leg, but below the origin of the soleus it is only bound down by the intermuscular layer of fascia, and lies by the side of the tendo Achillis. It rests upon (in the position for dissection) the tibialis posticus for two-thirds of its length, but then upon the flexor digitorum ; and at the ankle lies upon the tibia between the tendons of the flexor digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. The vessel after- wards passes through a division of the annular ligament to the interval between the inner malleolus and the heel, where it divides into internal and external plantar arteries. The posterior tibial nerve has a close relation to the artery throughout, lying first to its