THE VAGINA. 285 Pelvic Viscera in the Female. [The organs removed from the pelvis are to be laid out upon the table with the rectum upwards; this is to be cleaned, and after it has been examined is to be dissected from the uterus.] The Rectum (Fig. 148, 19) corresponds in all particulars to that of the male, but is sometimes much distended. The description of the rectum will be found at page 277. [The preparation being reversed, the bladder and urethra are next to be dissected and examined. The peritoneum is to be dissected up from the bladder and left attached to the uterus.] The Bladder (Fig. 148, 4) is more capacious than in the male, and is directly continuous with the urethra without the intervention of a prostate, the relation to the vesiculse seminales and vasa deferentia being of course wanting. The bladder is firmly attached to the neck of the uterus and front wall of the vagina. On each side of the upper part of the vagina the ureters turn upwards to gain the sides of the bladder, running obliquely for a short distance in the vesico-vaginal septum, then forwards obliquely through its coats to open by two orifices an inch and a half apart, about where they would open in the male (Savage). The structure of the bladder in the female corresponds closely to that of the male, which is given at page 279. The Urethra (Fig. 148, 6) of the female is a simple tube about an inch and a half long, the structure of which is best seen by laying it open with the bladder. The urethra is about a quarter of an inch in diameter, but is larger near the bladder, this being also its most dilatable portion. The mucous and muscular coats (circular and longitudinal) resemble those of the membranous urethra of the male. [The bladder and urethra are to be carefully removed, and the vagina and uterus exposed. The broad ligament of the uterus should be pinned out for the examination of the Fallopian tube and round ligament, and the preparation must afterwards be reversed for the dissection of the ovary, which is placed posteriorly.] The Vagina (Fig. 157, 5) has been seen in its position in the pelvis (p. 268) when the anterior wall was found to be shorter than the posterior, thus giving it a curved direction which is lost when the organs are removed from the body. The vagina is composed of longitudinal muscular fibres enclosing erectile tissue, and lined by a mucous membrane, which when the tube is opened will be seen to