THE AORTIC INTERCOSTAL ARTERIES. 457 a. The 'pericardiac branches are irregular. b. The bronchial arteries, one or two to each lung, run on the pos- terior surface of each bronchus and supply blood to the tissues of the lungs. A bronchial min accompanies each artery ; the right opening into the vena azygos major, and the left into the left superior inter- costal vein. c. The oesophageal arteries are four or five small branches to the gullet. d. The mediastinal are small twigs to the cellular tissue and glands of the posterior mediastinum. They anastomose with the pericardiac and oesophageal arteries, and form part of the sub-pleural mediastinal plexus of Turner. [The trachea is to be cut just above the bifurcation, and the lungs are then to be removed from the chest and kept for subsequent examination. The intercostal vessels, the azygos veins, and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic with its branches are now to be dissected out by removing the pleurae, and opportunity may be taken to follow out the thoracic duct, if this was not done satisfac- torily before.] The Aortic Intercostal Arteries (Fig. 236) are nine or ten in number on each side, and arise from the back part of the aorta. They supply the nine lower intercostal spaces, anastomosing with the superior intercostal artery above, and the arteries of the right side are necessarily longer than those of the left, owing to the position of the aorta to the left side of the median line. The upper arteries necessarily ascend to reach their proper intercostal spaces, but the lower ones run transversely, passing beneath the oesophagus, thoracic duct, vena azygos major, and gangliated cord of the sympathetic on Fig. 236.—Veins of the trunk and neck (from Cruveilhier). 1. Right internal jugular vein. 2. Left internal jugular vein. 3. Right external jugular vein. 4. Left external jugular vein. 5. Right innominate vein. 6. Left innominate vein. 7. Right superior intercostal vein. 8. Left superior intercostal artery. 9. Thymic vein. 10. Left internal mammary vein. 11. Right internal mammary vein. 12. Left superior intercostal vein. 13. Vena cava superior, receiving the vena azygos major. 14. Left bronchus. 15. Vena azygos major. 16. Vena azygos superior. 17. Quadratus lumborum. 18. Vena azygos minor. 19. Vena cava inferior. 20. Abdominal aorta. 21. Right common iliac artery. 22. Ascending lumbar vein. 23. Right common iliac vein. 24. Left common iliac artery. 26. Left common iliac vein.