THE SPINAL CORD AND MEMBRANES. 479 The Coccygeal nerve emerges from the lower end of the vertebral canal and is distributed to the coccyx. The Posterior Divisions of the Intercostal and Lumbar Arte- ries divide like the nerves into internal and external branches, which accompany the nerves to the muscles of the back. The Sixth. Layer of Muscles (Fig. 246) consists of the Inter- spinales, Intertransversales, Multifidus Spime, and Levatores Costa- rum, which will not repay the trouble of dissection. The position of the Interspinales and Intertransversales is suffi- ciently indicated by their names. The Multifidus Spin* (16) fills up the vertebral groove beneath the erector spin*, arising from the articular processes of the cervical and lumbar vertebrae, and from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebrae and sacrum. The muscle is inserted into the spinous processes of all the vertebr* except the atlas. The Levatores Costarum are twelve fan-shaped muscles passing between the dorsal transverse processes and the upper borders of the ribs. The Spinal Cord and Membranes. [To open the spinal canal, the remains of the muscles of the back should be cleared away as far as possible, when some part of the plexus of clorsi-spinal veins may be seen upon the vertebr*. A block then being placed beneath the thorax so as to make the dorsal region prominent, a cut is to be made with the saw on each side of the middle line, so as to divide the lamin* of the vertebr* as far out as possible. Two or three of the arches being now removed with the chisel, the point of a spine-chisel or rachet is to be introduced into the canal and the rachet carefully hammered through the arches of the vertebr* for the whole length of the spine, except the upper two cervical vertebr*. The operation being repeated on the opposite side, the arches can lie removed with the bone-forceps, and the canal will be thoroughly opened. On the inner surface of the arches will be seen the ligamenta suhjiava, Avliich are described with the other vertebral ligaments (p. 420).] Upon opening the Spinal Canal some loose tissue and fat will be seen, together with the meningeo-rachidian veins, which are occa- sionally full, of blood. These extend for the whole length of the spinal cord under the name of posterior longitudinal spinal veins, 13. Scalenus anticus with phrenic nerve. 14. Vertebral vessels in transverse process. 15. Scalenus medius with brachial cords in front. 16. Splenius colli. 17. Complexus. 18. Semi-spinalis colli. 19. Splenius capitis. 20. Levator anguli scapulae. 21. Trapezius.