89 THE COVERINGS OF FEMORAL HERNIA. superficial fascia to tire lower margin of the saphenous opening, and lies along Poupart’s ligament, or, if of large size, may stretch the fascia sufficiently to mount over the ligament and sim- Fig- Ul- ulate an inguinal hernia. The Coverings of a Femoral Hernia (Fig. 42) will he readily learned if the course it takes has been thoroughly under- stood. In its descent the intestine pushes before it (l) peritoneal sac, (2) sep- tum crurale, (3) femoral sheath, (4) cribriform fascia, (5) superficial fascia and skin. It must not be supposed that the surgeon will meet with these various coverings in ope- rating upon a strangulated femoral hernia, since he usually pays no attention to any of them until he reaches the sac or peritoneum, which is to be recognised by its thin bluish appearance, and by the fluid generally to be seen through its slightly transparent Avail. * Surgery.—Operation for strangulated femoral hernia. The point of stricture is very rarely at the saphenous opening, since it becomes so much enlarged in an old hernia as to offer no resistance; and the * The student is particularly warned against the common error of supposing the sac of a hernia to be smooth and glistening on its exterior. Fig. 41.—Section of the structures which pass beneath the femoral arch (from W ilson). 1. Poupart’s ligament. 2, 2. Iliac portion of the fascia lata, attached along the margin of the crest of the ilium, and along Poupart’s ligament as far as the spine of the pubes (3). 4. Pubic portion of the fascia lata, continuous at 3 with the iliac ortion, and passing outwards ehind the sheath of the femoral vessels to its outer border at 5, where it divides into two layers; one is continuous with the sheath of the psoas (6) and iliacus (7) ; the other (8) is lost upon the capsule of the hip- joint (9). 10. The anterior crural nerve. 11. Gimbernat’s ligament. 12. The femoral ring, within the femoral sheath. 13. Femoral vein. 14. Femoral artery; the two vessels and the ring are surrounded by the femoral sheath.