POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK. 306 The Transverse or Basilar Sinus (Fig. 161, io) crosses the basilar process at a variable point, and communicates between the two inferior petrosal sinuses. By displacing the Gasserian ganglion, a little groove in the upper surface of the petrous bone will be seen, in which are a small nerve and artery taking a course to the hiatus Fallopii, through which they disappear. They are the greater superficial petrosal nerve and artery, the nerve the continuation of the Vidian going to join the facial, and the artery a branch of the middle meningeal. Two small nerves may be found entering the temporal bone, to the outer side of the hiatus Fallopii; one, the small superficial petrosal, is the communication be- tween the facial nerve and the otic ganglion, the other, the external superficial petrosal, is derived from the sympathetic on the middle meningeal artery. Meningeal Arteries.—The Anterior Meningeal Arteries from the ethmoidal arteries, if injected, will be seen to enter the cranium through the ethmoidal foramina. The Middle Meningeal Artery can be seen entering at the foramen spinosum. It ramifies on the outside of the dura mater, grooving deeply the anterior inferior angle of the parietal bone. The Small Meningeal is a branch of the middle meningeal artery, which enters the skull through the foramen ovale. The Meningeal Branch of the Ascending Pharingeal artery may be found perforating the foramen lacerum medium. The Posterior Meningeal Arteries are small branches of the occipital and vertebral, which enter by the foramen jugulare and foramen magnum respectively. Posterior Triangle of the Neck. [In order to dissect the posterior triangle, the blocks beneath the head should be removed, and it should be drawn downwards and to the opposite side and secured with hooks. The shoulders are to be raised to a convenient height by blocks beneath the scapulae, and the arm drawn down, and if possible secured in that position. The side of the neck is thus put fully on the stretch, and probably the external jugular vein distended with blood mil be seen beneath the skin. One incision is to be carried from the back of the pinna to the clavicle near its inner end, and another from this point along the whole length of that bone ; a third incision is to be made (if neces- sary) transversely from the pinna to the occiput, and the flap of skin is then to be reflected backwards. The dissection should be begun at the inferior angle, the dissector of the right side standing by the shoulder, and the dissector of the left side at the head, of the subject.]