369 THE SUBMAXILLARY REGIOX. tongue. Beneath the external pterygoid the nerve is joined at an acute angle by the small chorda tynipani nerve (7), a branch of the facial nerve in the temporal bone, which passes through the tym- panum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, and emerges through the canal of Huguier at the inner side of the Glasserian fissure, to which it should now be traced. The Inferior Dental Nerve (Fig. 197, 18) has a branch of com- munication with the lingual trunk, and then descends upon the ptervgoideus intemus, and afterwards upon the internal lateral ligament, to the dental foramen. After entering the bone it supplies all the teeth of the lower jaw, either directly or by its incisor branch (22), and emerges at the mental foramen with its accompanying artery. Immediately before entering the dental foramen it gives off the mylo-hyoid nerve (17), which pierces the internal lateral ligament with the accompanying artery, and, after running in a groove on the inner surface of the bone, is distributed on the cutaneous surface of the mylo-liyoid muscle, and also supplies the anterior belly of the digastric. The Auriculo-Temporal Nerve (Fig. 197, 9) passes horizontally backwards behind the temporo-maxillary articulation, and often has two roots of origin which embrace the middle meningeal artery. It then turns upwards in front of the ear through the parotid gland, and is distributed on the temple (v. p. 294). It gives branches to the ear (auricular), to the parotid (of which it is the excitory nerve ac- cording to Bernard), and to the joint; and communicates with the facial nerve and with the sympathetic. The Submaxillary Region. The Submaxillary region has been partially dissected with the anterior triangle of the neck. It is seen to be bounded superficially by the two bellies of the digastric muscle and by the lower jaw, thus being triangular in shape, and to contain the submaxillary gland and a portion of the facial arteiy. [The facial arteiy is to be divided at the jaw and turned back with the submaxillary gland, when the mylo-hyoid muscle forming the floor of the submaxillary triangle will be exposed, and on its sur- face will be seen the mylo-hyoid branch of artery and nerve derived from the inferior dental trunks, the artery anastomosing with the submental branch of the facial. By cutting through the digastric muscle at its insertion, detaching it and the stylo-hyoid from the hyoid bone, and turning them back, the mylo-hyoid muscle will be fully exposed, and should be put on the stretch by means of a hook attached to the larynx.] B B