151 THE KNEE-JOINT. being arranged on each side of an imaginary line through the middle or long finger. Though considered anatomically as adductors and abductors, all the muscles by their connection with the extensor tendons are fiexors of the first and extensors of the second and third phalanges (v. p. 143). The Knee-Joint. The knee is a good example of ginglymus or hinge-joint, the move- ment taking place between the femur and the tibia, and the patella gliding upon the former bone. It is remarkable for having inter- articular fibro-cartilages, and its synovial membrane is the most extensive in the body. The knee-joint has in front the expansion of the extensor muscles which help to form its capsular ligament, and in front of the patella is a bursa. Behind the joint are the popliteal artery, vein, and nerves, with the two heads of the gastrocnemius and the popliteus. To the inner side of the j oint, but posterior to it, are the tendons of the sartorius, gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and semi-membranosus ; and the biceps occupies a similar position on the outer side. The ligaments of the knee may conveniently be divided into extra- and intra-articular. The Extra-articular Ligaments are anterior, posterior, two lateral, and capsular. The Anterior Ligament (Fig. 79, 3) is the ligamcntum patellce, which is a broad band reaching from the lower margin of the patella to the tubercle of the tibia, and forming part of the insertion of the quadriceps extensor. The expansions of the vasti muscles on each side form an additional covering to the front of the joint and become incorporated with its capsule. Between the ligament and the head of the tibia is a bursa, which must not be confounded with the proper lursa patella: in front of the bone. [To see the remaining ligaments, the popliteal vessels and nerves and the remains of the gastrocnemius and plantaris must be removed. The tendons of the biceps, semi-membranosus, and popliteus are to be traced out fully, and should be carefully preserved, but cut short.] The Posterior Ligament (Fig. 80, 1) (ligamentum posticum Winslowii) is closely connected with the tendon of the semi-mem- branosus, from which a large band of fibres passes obliquely upwards and outwards across the back of the joint, superficially to the fibres of the capsular ligament. The External Lateral Ligament (Fig. 80, 6 & 7) is divided