SUPERFICIAL VESSELS AND NERVES. 189 The interdigitations with the serratus magnus and latissimus dorsi are to he carefully defined.] The Obliquus Externus (Fig. 1, 12) has its origin from the outer surfaces of the eight lower ribs, and thus interdigitates above with the serratus magnus by five points, and with the latissimus dorsi below by three points. Its fibres pass obliquely downwards and forwards towards the middle line, except the posterior ones, which pass vertically to the crest of the ilium. [In order to see the whole of the insertion of this muscle it will be necessary to continue the dissection by reflecting the triangle of skin left upon the groin.] The Superficial Fascia of the Groin (Fig. 95) differs from that over the abdomen in being divisible into two layers—superficial and deep. The superficial layer of superficial fascia (a) resembles that found elsewhere, but the deep layer (b) (Scarpa’s fascia) is more mem- branous. It is directly continuous with the deep layer of the super- ficial fascia in the perinteum (p. 172), and is attached firmly to the fascia lata of the thigh a little below Poupart’s ligament, thus pre- venting any urine which may have been infiltrated into the tissues from passing down the thigh. Superficial Vessels and Nerves (Fig. 95).—Between the layers of superficial fascia, will be found three small branches of the femoral artery with their accompanying veins. The superficial circumflex iliac (d) runs outwards about the level of Poupart’s ligament to the anterior superior spine ; the superficial epigastric (e) rims upwards for a short distance on the abdominal wall; and the superior external pudic (/) runs over the spermatic cord to the scrotum. The veins corresponding to these arteries join the saphenous vein as it opens into the femoral. Upon, or a little below, Poupart’s ligament will be found two or three glands, which receive the lymphatics from the penis and scrotum. The tendon of the obliquus externus being exposed, a nerve will be found piercing it about two inches above the pubes—the ilio- hypogastric from the 1st lumbar; and another may be traced upon the spermatic cord—the ilio-inguinal (n) also from the 1st lumbar (Fig. 94). 13. Lateral cutaneous branch, of first lumbar (ilio-hypogastric). 14. Anterior cutaneous branch of ilio- hypogastric. 15. Anterior cutaneous branch of ilio- inguinal. 16. Ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal nerves. 17. Lateral cutaneous branch of second intercostal nerve. 18. Lateral cutaneous branch of inter- costal nerve.