THE PECTORALIS MAJOR. 9 internal mammary branch of the subclavian, which runs behind the costal cartilages about half an inch from the border of the sternum. Cutaneous Nerves and Vessels.—In the superficial fascia on the front of the chest are the anterior cutaneous branches of the inter- costal nerves and arteries. They appear at regular intervals on each side of the sternum as they pierce the pectoral muscle, and are of small size. The terminations of the descending branches of the superficial cervical plexus may also be found beneath, or piercing, the platysma, and crossing the clavicle in the positions their names imply, viz. sternal, clavicular, and acromial. [The pectoralis major is to be put on the stretch by drawing the arm from the side and supporting it at a convenient height, its fibres are then to be cleaned from below on the right, and from above on the left side.] Pectoralis Major (Fig. 1, i) consists of a sternal and a clavicular portion separated by a cellular interval. The sternal portion arises from the whole length of one side of the sternum and from the carti- lages of all the true ribs except the seventh, and is connected below with the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle. The clavicular portion arises from the inner or sternal half of the anterior border of the clavicle, and is separated from the deltoid muscle by another cellular interval, containing the cephalic vein and the humeral branch of the acromio-thoracic artery. The two portions are united at their insertion into the anterior or outer edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, the muscle being doubled upon itself near its insertion, so that the sternal fibres pass behind, and reach higher up the bone than, those from the clavicle. The deeper portion of the insertion is more tendinous than the superficial fibres, which are closely con- nected with the deltoid. The action of the pectoralis major is to rotate the humerus inwards and then cross it over the chest. If the arm were raised above the 12. External oblique. 13. Its aponeurosis: the median line to the right of this number is the linea alba ; the curved line to its left, the linea semilunaris; the transverse lines above and below the number, the line® transversal. 14. Poupart’s ligament. 15. External abdominal ring. 16. Rectus muscle of the right side brought into view by the re- moval of the anterior segment of its sheath; * posterior seg- ment of its sheath with the divided edge of the anterior segment. 17. Pyramidalis muscle. . 18. Internal oblique. 19. Conjoined tendon of the internal oblique and transversalis. 20. The lower curved border of the internal oblique muscle.