282 MALE PELVIC VISCERA. anterior portion of the urethra, and expands again to form the glans penis. The Spongy portion is the longest part of the canal, and averages five inches in length. Its calibre is somewhat smaller than that of the bulbous portion, hut it expands in the glans penis to form the/ossa navicularis, again becoming contracted at the meatus or orifice, at which point the urethra is as small as in the membranous portion, and occasionally smaller. Along the floor of the spongy portion are numerous mucous follicles or lacuna:, the orifices of which are directed towards the meatus ; a few similar follicles are situated on the upper surface of the urethra, one of which opposite the fossa navicularis is the lacuna magna. This can seldom be made out when the urethra is opened from above as here directed. The mucous membrane is smooth and pale in health, but the student should notice carefully any traces of stricture, which will probably be found, if present, in the bulbous portion. The epithe- lium of the posterior part of the urethra is columnar, but it becomes tesselated near the glans penis. Beneath the mucous membrane of the urethra there is a layer of longitudinal involuntary muscular fibre continuous with the sub- mucous layer of the bladder (Ellis), and intermixed with fibrous tissue. According to Hancock, circular muscular fibres also invest the whole length of the urethra at the same level. The Corpora Cavernosa Penis (Fig. 152, 14) are now seen to be two vascular bodies enclosed in fibrous capsules, which unite to form a median septum between them, known as the septum pectini- forme (16) from the comb-like appearance produced by apertures in it. The elastic capsule consists of two layers of fibres, longitudinal and circular, from which trabeculce or processes are distributed through the vascular tissue of the organ. The attachment of the corpora cavernosa or crura penis has been seen in the dissection of the perinceum. A transverse section of the penis (Fig. 154) shows the reticulated structure of the corpora cavernosa, and of the corpus spongiosum which Eig. 151.—Transverse section of the penis. 1. Dorsal vein. 5. Septum pectinifomie. 2. Dorsal artery. 6. Urethra, surrounded by corpus 3. Dorsal nerve. spongiosum. 4. Artery of corpus cavernosum. Fig. 154.