INTRINSIC MUSCLES OF LARYNX. 411 the larynx, the sterno-hyoid, sternothyroid, thyro-liyoid, and inferior constrictor of the pharynx, are then to be carefully removed without injuring the crico-thyroid muscle or the external laryngeal nerve.] Intrinsic Muscles of the Larynx. The Crico-thyroid Muscle (Fig. 179, 22) is placed on each side of the crico-thyroid membrane and is somewhat triangular in shape, being narrow below and expanded above. It arises from an oval surface on the side of the cricoid cartilage, and ascends to be inserted into the posterior part of the lower border and inner surface, and into the inferior cornu, of the thyroid cartilage. It is supplied by the external laryngeal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve. [The preparation is to be turned over and the mucous membrane is to be dissected off the back of the larynx, the remnant of the oesophagus being removed. The crico-arytaenoidei postici muscles on the back of the cricoid cartilage are readily dissected ; but in order to clean the cross-fibres of the arytaenoideus it will be necessary to over- distend the larynx so as to stretch the muscle ; and this may be most readily done by the finger of an assistant.] The Arytaenoideus (Fig. 214,6) is an example of a single muscle in the median line, its fibres crossing one another and being equally distributed on each side. It occupies the concave posterior surfaces of the two arytaenoid cartilages, the fibres passing from one to the other, and being divisible into superficial and deep layers. The superficial fibres cross obliquely from the apex of one carti- lage to the base of the other, and vice versa, so as to form an X, whilst the deeper fibres pass transversely between them. The arytaenoideus is supplied by both the superior and the inferior laryngeal nerves. The Crico-Arytsenoideus Posticus (Fig. 214, 7) arises from the posterior surface of the cricoid cartilage on one side of the median ridge, and its fibres pass obliquely upwards and out- wards to be inserted on the posterior aspect of the prominent outer angle of the base of the arytaenoid cartilage. It is supplied by the inferior laryngeal nerve. Fig. 214.—Posterior view of the larynx (from Wilson). 1. Thyroid cartilage, right ala. 6. Arytcenoideus muscle, consisting 2. Ascending cornu. of oblique and transverse fas- 3. Descending cornu. ciculi. 4. Cricoid cartilage. 7. Crico-aryttenoidei postici muscles. 5. 5. Arytamoid cartilages. 8. Epiglottis.