FEMORAL ARTERY AND ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 99 fragment afterwards drawn up by the contraction of the muscles. In order to relax the muscles and bring the fragment down, it is necessary to ‘ extend the leg upon the thigh and flex the thigh upon the pelvis.’ The Femoral Artery in Hunter’s Canal (Fig. 49).—Hunter’s canal is formed by a tendinous expansion derived from the adductors longus and magnus and the vastus interims, which encloses the femoral vessels and long saphenous nerve in the middle third of the thigh. The canal begins at the crossing of the sartorius muscle and ends at the opening of the adductor magnus, where the artery enters the popliteal space, being covered by the sartorius in its whole length. On laying open the canal, the femoral artery will be found to have its vein behind and to the outer side until it reaches the opening in the adductor magnus ; the saphenous nerve, at first to the outer side, crosses the artery to wind round the tendon and become cutaneous on the inner side of the knee. The Opening in the adductor magnus, as it is commonly called, is in reality an opening between the round tendon of the adductor magnus on the inner side, and the fibres of the vastus internus and the femur on the outer side, the tendinous fibres of the adductor forming the remainder of its circumference. The only structures passing through it are the femoral artery and vein. The Anastomotica magna is the only vessel arising from the femoral artery in Hunter’s canal, but its branches not unfrequently come off at two or more separate places. The anastomotica has a superficial and deep branch : the superficial accompanying the saphenous nerve to the skin, the deep branch entering the vastus internus, through which it descends to the knee to anastomose with the articular branches of the popliteal artery. Surgery (Fig. 46).—Deligation of the femoral artery in Hunter’s canal is not frequently performed in the present day, but the vessel is readily reached by an incision to the inner side of the vastus interims in the middle third of the thigh, by which the outer edge of the sartorius muscle is met with. The sartorius is turned inwards, when the tendinous canal is brought into view, and by laying it open the artery will be exposed. It is more convenient to pass the aneurism needle from without inwards than the reverse, the vein lying to the outer side. The Anterior Crural Nerve (Fig. 49, 5) supplies branches to all the muscles of the front of the thigh except the tensor fasciie femoris, and also gives a branch to the pectineus on the inner side of the limb. The branch to the sartorius has been already seen to arise h 2