350 THE FACE. above, and lost on the nasal cartilage, where it joins the tendon of the compressor naris. The Levator Labii Superioris Alseque Nasi (Fig. 186,8) arises from the upper part oi the nasal process of the superior maxilla close to the margin of the orbit; it widens as it descends, and divides into two slips, which are inserted into the alar cartilage of the nose and into the upper lip. The Compressor Naris (Fig. 185, 3) is to be traced beneatli the preceding muscle to its origin from the canine fossa of the superior maxilla. The muscle is triangular in shape, and passes to be inserted on the bridge of the nose, where it unites with the opposite muscle and the pyramidalis nasi. The Depressor Alae Nasi (Fig. 185, 7) is a small muscle which can only be properly seen by everting the lip (at a later stage) and removing the mucous membrane. It arises from the myrti- form fossa over the incisor teeth of the upper jaw, and is inserted into the posterior part of the coliunna and the ala of the nose. The Orbicularis Oris (Fig. 186, 7) is the sphincter muscle surrounding the mouth. It is joined by all the other muscles which are inserted into the lips, and specially by the bucci- nator on each side, the fibres of which interlace with it. It is attached to each side of the septum of the nose by a small slip (naso-labialis) (Fig. 185, 9), and to the superior maxilla close to the canine tooth on each side, by small slips which have been named the fasciculi acces- Fig. 185.—Muscles of the nose (from Wilson, after Arnold). 1. Pyramidalis nasi. 2. Upper pai't of the levator labii superioris ateque nasi turned aside. 3. Compressor naris. 4. An anomalous slip. 5. Levator proprius alse nasi anterior. 6. Levator proprius ate nasi pos- terior. 7. Part of the depressor ate nasi. 8. Upper segment of the orbicularis oris. 9. Naso-labialis. 10. Fasciculi accessorii of the orbicu- laris. 11. A small muscle termed by Arnold compressor narium minor; it extends between the end of the nose and the alar cartilage. Its existence is doubtful.