VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 250 Fissures.—The longitudinal fissure divides the under surface into right and left lobes, and is occupied by the round ligament or umbilical vein (i). Its continuation behind the transverse fissure is the fissxire for the ductus venosus (8), and contains that obliterated vessel. The transverse fissure (porta) is at right angles to the longi- tudinal, and gives passage to the hepatic duct (4), hepatic artery (3), and portal vein (5), which lie in that order from before backwards.* Parallel to the longitudinal fissure is the fissure for the gall-bladder (2), which last should be distended with air by a blowpipe placed in the duct. Placed obliquely at the posterior margin of the liver and behind the gall-bladder, is the short groove or fissure for the vena cava (7), a portion of which vessel has been left in situ. Lobes.—The whole of the liver substance on the right of the longitudinal fissure is strictly the right lobe (r), but certain parts of it have received special names, viz. lobus quadratics, lobus Spigelii and lobus caudatus. The right lobe has two shallow depressions on its under surface, the anterior one being where the ascending colon touches the liver, and the posterior one corresponding to the anterior surface of the right kidney, over which it lies in the erect posture. The Lobus quadratus (q) is the square lobe bounded by the longitudinal and transverse fissures and the gall-bladder. The Lobus Spigelii (s) is the projecting portion behind the transverse fissure, and between the fissures for the vena cava and the ductus venosus. The Lobus caudatus (c) is the small “ tail ” of liver substance which connects the lobulus Spigelii with the right lobe. The left lobe (l) is on the opposite side of the longitudinal fissure, across which there is often a bridge of liver substance (pons hepatis). The vessels entering the transverse fissure should be defined, and the fibrous tissue around them (capsule of Glisson) removed. The right and left hepatic ducts (4) will be found to emerge from the cor- responding lobes and to unite in the common hepatic duct, which is about two inches long; this is afterwards joined by the cystic duct from the gall-bladder, to form the common bile duct (ductus com- munis choledochus) (9), which is nearly three inches long, and should be traced into the duodenum. The gall-bladder (2) is a pear-shaped bag attached by cellular tissue to the liver, and covered superficially by the peritoneum. When distended, its large end or fundus projects beyond the ■* It will be observed that the order of vessels entering the liver is the reverse of those entering the kidney, q. v. p. 253.