SIDE OF THE NECK. 334 The Superior Thyroid Artery (Fig. 177, 12) runs forward beneath the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and then down- ward to the thyroid body, which it supplies on its anterior aspect, anastomosing with the inferior thyroid artery from the subclavian, and with the thyroid vessels of the opposite side. It gives off a hyoid branch, which runs along the lower border of the hyoid bone, and anastomoses with the hyoid branch of the lingual artery upon the upper border ; the superior laryngeal branch, which pierces the thyro-lryoid membrane with the corresponding nerve ; and the crico- thyroid branch, which anastomoses with its fellow of the opposite side across the crico-tliyroid membrane. Also, a superficial descending branch, which supplies the depressor muscles of the hyoid bone, and from which the sterno-mastoid artery is frequently derived. The crico-tliyroid branch is considered to be one of the dangers seen in laryngotomy, but the fact of its being parallel to the knife when entered transversely, as it ordinarily is in the operation, renders its division unlikely, whilst its small size would cause such an accident to be of slight importance. The Lingual Artery (Fig. 177, 8).—Only a very small portion of the lingual artery is now visible, running transversely upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx immediately above the hyoid bone, and disappearing beneath the edge of the hyoglossus muscle, being usually crossed by the digastric and stylo-liyoid muscles and the hypoglossal nerve. The remainder of the vessel will be given in the dissection of the submaxillary region. The Facial Artery (Fig. 177, 4) passes upwards and forwards beneath the digastric and stylo-liyoid muscles, and forms a remark- able sigmoid curve as it lies in a deep groove on the posterior part of the submaxillary gland before reaching the jaw, which it crosses immediately in front of the masseter muscle ; it will be followed out in the dissection of the face. Its inferior palatine branch may be seen disappearing between the stylo-glossus and stylo-pliaryngeus muscles, and the tonsillar branch between the stylo-glossus and pterygoideus internus, and these will be afterwards dissected. Its submaxillary branches (two or three) enter the gland ; and the submental branch, often of large size, runs forward over the mylo-hyoid muscle to the cliin, where it supplies the surrounding tissues. The facial frequently arises in common with -the lingual artery, in which case the vessel passes beneath the hypoglossal nerve. The Occipital Artery (Fig. 177, 1) is seen only in its first part. It runs backwards along the inferior border of the digastric, and