THE FASCIA OF THE LEG. 141 foot ending in the internal and external saphena veins on opposite sides. The internal saphena vein is to he traced in front of the internal malleolus to the inner side of the knee. Cutaneous Nerves.—On the outer side of the leg are a few cutaneous branches from the external popliteal nerve. The Musculo-Cutaneous Nerve (Fig. 75, 13) pierces the deep fascia about the lower third of the outer side of the leg, and at once divides into two branches, which however often appear at different points. The internal division (15) gives branches to the inner side of the great toe, the outer side of the second, and the inner side of the third toe ; frequently also giving a small branch to join the anterior tibial nerve between the first and second toes. The outer division (17) supplies the outer side of the third toe, both sides of the fourth, and either one or both sides of the fifth toe. The External Saphenous Nerve (Fig. 75, 21) winds round the external malleolus from the back of the leg, and is distributed to the outer side of the little toe ; or occasionally to both sides of the little toe and half the next, joining the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Anterior Tibial Nerve (Fig. 75, 16) appears in the interval between the great and the second toes, the adjacent sides of which it supplies, often joining with a branch of the musculo-cutaneous nerve. The Internal Saphenous Nerve lies in front of the internal malleolus with the saphena vein, which it accompanies. It may be traced along the inner side of the foot, but is of small size. The Fascia of the Leg is dense and white, and is attached to the tibia on the inner side and to the fibula on the outer side, forming an intermuscular septum between the extensor and the peroneal muscles. It gives origin to muscular fibres at the upper part of the leg, where it should therefore be allowed to remain undisturbed ; the rest of the fascia should be removed, except a thickened band over the ankle joint, the anterior annular ligament. The anterior annular ligament consists of two parts, one passing from the tibia to the fibula, and having a compartment for the tibialis anticus distinct from the rest of the structures passing beneath it; the other reaching from the os calcis to the inner malleolus and the inner row of tarsal bones, and having three compartments for (1) the tibialis anticus, (2) extensor proprius pollicis, and (3) extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius, the anterior tibial vessels and nerve going beneath the ligament. A similar band between the external malleolus and the calcaneum is called the external annular ligament, and encloses