392 THE PHARYNX. that of the nose and of the mouth, and its epithelium varies in different situations, being squamous throughout the canal below the level of the palate, but columnar and ciliated above that point. Close to the base of the skull is a collection of follicular glands, extending from one Eustachian tube to the other, and forming the 'pharyngeal tonsils of Kolliker. These are hypertrophied in cases of congenital cleft-palate, when they can be readily seen, and appear to assist in closing the aperture between the nose and mouth during deglutition. This is the best opportunity for study- ing the Process of Deglutition. The food having been duly masticated and insalivated, the mouth is closed in order that the lower jaw may afford a fixed point from which the muscles of the tongue may act. The bolus of food is then carried back to the fauces by the movement of the tongue, and is there grasped by the pillars of the fauces and prevented from returning. The pharynx is now raised by the stylo-pharyngei muscles and is at the same time widened to receive the food, which is prevented from ascending into the nares by the raising and tension of the soft palate, due to the action of the levator and circumflexus palati of both sides, and by the approximation of the posterior pillars by means of the contraction of the palato-pharyngei. The constrictors, by their successive contraction from above downwards, next force the food towards the oesophagus. At the same moment the larynx is raised by the action of the eleva- tors of the liyoid bone, and the aperture of the larynx is compressed against the epiglottis and base of the tongue; by which means the food is prevented from entering the windpipe. An additional security is provided by the epiglottis, which when healthy is folded down over Fig. 206. Fig. 206.—Pharynx laid open from behind (from Wilson). 1. Section of base of skull. 2. 2. Walls of pharynx drawn aside. 3. 3. Posterior nares separated by the vomer. 4. Right Eustachian tube. 5. Soft palate. 6. 6. Posterior pillars of fauces. 7. Anterior pillar of fauces. 8. Base of tongue. 9. Epiglottis. 10. Aperture of larynx. 11. Bade of larynx. 12. Opening of oesophagus. 13. (Esophagus. 14. Trachea.