THE PELVIS. 258 carefully sponged out, and having removed the tow or cotton-wool from the anus, the dissector should let a stream of water run through the rectum. • The bladder should he emptied of any urine it may contain by pressure with the hand, and he moderately distended with air.] The Peritoneum (Fig. 147) should be examined first, and will be found to pass over the rectum, binding the upper part to the front of the sacrum (meso-rectum) ; from the rectum to the bladder forming the recto-vesical pouch, and thence over the back of the bladder to the abdominal wall. On each side of the recto-vesical pouch is a distinct fold of peritoneum, formed by the reflection of the membrane over the obliterated hypogastric arteries and the ureters ; these are the posterior false ligaments of the bladder. The peritoneum passing from the side of the bladder to the pelvis forms the lateral false ligaments, ' and the portion reaching to the back of the abdominal wall over the urachus -is’ called the superior false ligament of the bladder. Thus the false ligaments of the bladder, five in number, are all formed by peritoneum. In the Female (Fig. 109) the peritoneum passes from the rectum to the posterior wall of the vagina, forming the recto-vaginal pouch (Douglas), and then over the uterus to the bladder, forming the ntero- vesical pouch. On each side of the uterus it is stretched across the pelvis, forming the broad ligament of the uterus, which contains the round ligament, the ovary, and the Fallopian tube, the fimbriated extremity of which is to be noticed. The false ligaments of the bladder are the same as in the male, but are less distinctly marked ; the margins of the recto-vaginal and utero-vesical pouches have been named the anterior and posterior ligaments of the uterus. [The peritoneum is to be stripped off the upper part and sides of the bladder, but the recto-vesical pouch is not to be interfered with at present. By scraping away a little fat with the handle of the knife the pelvic fascia will be brought into view, but to examine it thoroughly the following dissection is to be made, in order to obtain a view from the outside. One dissector holding the pelvis firmly, the other is to clear away the remains of the adductor muscles on the right side of the pubes so as to expose the obturator externus muscle, which must then be carefully removed. Beneath the muscle will be found the branches of the obturator artery, forming a circle around the foramen and lying upon the obturator membrane or ligament, which gives passage to both obturator artery and nerve at its upper part. On removing the obturator ligament the fibres of the obturator internus muscle will be brought into view. With the saw a horizontal cut is now to be made from the upper margin of the obturator fora- men into the cotyloid cavity, and a similar one at the lower margin