SURGERY OF THE ILIAC ARTERIES. 231 Branches.—The epigastric and circumflex iliac arteries are given off just above Poupart’s ligament. The Epigastric artery passes upwards immediately outside the peritoneum, and enters the rectus muscle at its posterior aspect, to which it has been already traced (p. 202). The branches of the epigastric are pubic to the back of the puhes, cremasteric to the cord, and muscular. An abnormal branch of large size is frequently found coming off from the epigastric close to its origin, and descending into the pelvis ; this is the obturator artery, and its important relations to femoral hernia have been already described (p. 90). The vein joins the external iliac vein. The Circumflex Iliac artery takes a course outwards along Poupart’s ligament, and is at first immediately outside the peritoneum. It soon, however, pierces the transversalis, and a branch of it serves as the guide between that muscle and the internal oblique. The artery runs along the crest of the ilium between the muscles, and anasto- moses with the ilio-lumbar branch of the internal iliac and with the last lumbar artery. The vein has been seen to cross the external iliac artery an inch above Poupart’s ligament, to open into the external iliac vein. Surgery.—The operations of tying the iliac arteries cannot be conveniently practised on the subject, as the muscles of the abdomen would be necessarily damaged. The following is the usual mode of proceeding :— To tie the External Iliac artery, a lunated incision three and a half inches long is to be made about an inch above and parallel to Poupart’s ligament (Fig. 117, a). The tendon of the external oblique and the fleshy fibres of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles are to be divided in the same direction and to the same extent, and it is usual to divide the transversalis on a director to avoid the possibility of injuring the peritoneum. Care must also be taken not to divide the epigastric artery. The fascia transversalis, now exposed, is to be divided on a director, and the peritoneum is then to be carefully stripped up from the iliac fossa and turned forward with the viscera, the ureter and spermatic vessels generally adhering to the membrane and being therefore drawn out of the way. The finger can now reach the inner border of the psoas, at which the artery can be felt, but the sheath must he carefully opened before the needle can be passed between the vein and the artery. The vessel should be tied as nearly as possible midway between the origins of the internal iliac and epigastric arteries. The Internal and Common Iliac arteries may be tied through a