130 BACK OF THE LEG. 3. The Nutritious artery to the tibia is of large size, and enters the foramen on the posterior surface of that bone, having a direction from the knee-joint. 4. A Communicating branch runs transversely immediately above the ankle, to join a corresponding branch of the peroneal artery. 5. The Internal Calcanean is a branch of variable size and may be replaced by two or more separate arteries. It arises from the posterior tibial whilst beneath the internal annular ligament, which it pierces to supply the inner side of the os calcis with the muscles attached to it, and to anastomose with the other arteries in the neighbourhood. The Posterior Tibial Nerve (Fig. 63, 19) is the continuation of the internal popliteal trunk, and passes with the artery beneath the soleus to lie on the deep muscles of the back of the leg. It is placed at first to the inner side of the posterior tibial artery, but crosses that vessel in the upper part, and lies to its outer side at the ankle in the same division of the annular ligament. The nerve divides into internal and external plantar nerves for the sole of the foot, and the division not unfrequently takes place above the inner malleolus, in which case the plantar nerves are usually found on either side of the artery. The posterior tibial nerve gives muscular branches to the tibialis posticus, flexor longus digitorum, and flexor longus pollicis; and a cutaneous nerve to the heel (20), which pierces the fascia to the inner side of the tendo Aehillis, and may be traced to the skin of the sole of the foot. Parts behind the Inner Malleolus (Fig. 64).—Although the several parts behind the internal malleolus are only continuations of those which have been already dissected, especial notice should be Fig. 64.—Belation of parts behind the inner malleolus (from Hirsehfeld and Leveille). 1. 1. Tibialis posticus. 4, 4. Flexor longus digitorum. 2. Tendo Aehillis. 6. Posterior tibial artery. 3. Tibialis anticus. 8. Posterior tibial nerve. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is too deeply placed to be shown in this view. Fig. 64.