8G FEMORAL HERNIA. the skin, hut not so far down, the separation between the two layers of fascia being marked by some small vessels, glands, and minute nerves. The Superficial Vessels (Fig. 39) are branches of the femoral artery -with their accompanying veins, and are three in number, viz.:— The Superficial epigastric artery (e), which arises from the femoral immediately below Poupart’s ligament, and passes upwards and inwards over the front of the abdomen. The Superficial circumflex iliac artery (d), a small branch running outwards a little below Poupart’s ligament. The Superior external pudic artery (/), running inwards over the spermatic cord to the scrotum, or to the labium in the female. The Veins correspond in course and will be seen to open into the saphena vein. The Lymphatic glands will also be found between the layers of superficial fascia, and are arranged in two rows, one along the groin, to which the lymphatics of the penis, scrotum, and anus pass, and another below the groin in the direction of the thigh, into which the lymphatics of the limb empty themselves. The relation of the lym- phatics to these glands is to be borne in mind, since the position of a bubo will vary according to the part primarily affected,—genitals or foot. I The Nerves are the terminations of the ilio-inguinal and crural branch of the genito-crural, from the lumbar plexus. The Deep layer of superficial fascia is more membranous than the superficial layer, and will be best seen by raising it from the deep fascia beneath, beginning about four inches below the groin and reflecting it on to Poupart’s ligament. Between the two is the saphena vein, and the deeper layer of superficial fascia will be found bound down to the point at which the vein disappears, the saphenous opening. The deep layer of superficial fascia does not pass over Poupart’s ligament like the superficial layer, but is bound down to the fascia lata just below it, thus helping to direct a large femoral hernia along the groin. The Deep fascia of the thigh (fascia lata) is now exposed, and is to be dissected as far as is necessary for the study of the parts concerned in femoral hernia, the several nerves piercing it being left for subse- quent examination. Femoral Hernia. [The saphena vein is seen to disappear through an opening in the fascia lata about an inch and a half below Poupart’s ligament. This