THE ORBIT. 320 The Nasal Nerve (Figs. 169,7, and 171, 24) [5th] enters the orhit between the heads of the external rectus, and then crosses the optic nerve from without inwards to pass through the anterior ethmoidal foramen. It thus re-enters the cranium, and next passes into the nose by a slit in front of the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone, to appear ultimately on the face, between the nasal bone and the lateral nasal cartilage. It gives off, l,the long root to the lenticular ganglion on the outer side of the optic nerve ; 2, the long ciliary nerves, which run along the optic nerve to the eye-ball; 3, the infra-trochlear nerve, which, arising just before the nerve enters the ethmoidal hole, passes forwards to the eyelid close to the inner angle of the orbit. The Lenticular Ganglion (Fig. 172) (ciliary or ophthalmic) is a minute pink body placed on the outer side of the optic nerve near the back of the orbit, which has (like all the cranial ganglia) three roots, sensory, motor, and sympathetic. The sensory or long root(2) is derived from the nasal branch of the 5th, and enters the posterior super- ior angle of the ganglion. The motor or short root (4) is derived from the branch of the 3rd nerve supplying the inferior oblique, which can be seen passing to the bottom of the orbit; this root enters the ganglion at its posterior inferior angle. The sympathetic root (6) is from the cavernous plexus, which is derived from the plexus on the carotid artery, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure; it joins the ganglion between the other two roots, and can rarely be seen. The short ciliary Iranches of the ganglion arise from its upper and lower angles in front, and are eight or ten in number. They run along the optic nerve to the eye-ball, which they pierce to supply the his. The Ophthalmic Artery (Fig. 173, 2) arises from the internal carotid close to the anterior clinoid process, and enters the orbit through the optic foramen with the optic nerve, but to its outer side. It gives off the following branches :— a. The Lachrymal artery (5) accompanies the lachrymal nerve Fig. 172. Fig. 172.—Diagram of the lenticular ganglion (from Hirschfeld and Reveille). 1. Lenticular ganglion. 2. Long root from— 3. Nasal branch of fifth. 4. Short root from— 5. Inferior division of 3rd. 6. Sympathetic root from cavernous plexus. 7. Short ciliary nerves. 8. Long ciliary nerves.