THE ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. 95 or internal saphenous nerve, which becomes cutaneous at the inner side of the knee.* [The limb being extended, the line of incision on the inner side of the thigh is to be prolonged to three inches below the knee, and then carried across the limb, when the skin thus marked out is to be reflected to the outer side, and the superficial fascia to the same extent, all the cutaneous nerves being carefully left at their points of emergence from the fascia lata.] The Bursa patella is the subcutaneous synovial sac in front of the knee-cap, which will be seen by making a vertical incision into it. When inflamed, this bursa forms what is commonly known as “house- maid’s knee.” The Fascia lata or deep fascia of the thigh is now thoroughly exposed. It has been seen to be attached to Poupart’s ligament and the crest of the pubes, and can now be followed to the crest of the ilium. The fascia is strongest on the front and outer side of the thigh, and on each side of the prominent extensor muscles may be seen a white line marking the positions of the external and internal intermuscular septa. The fascia blends with the capsule of the knee, and is continued over the patella to the heads of the tibia and fibula, being incorporated with the several tendons attached to those parts. Piercing the fascia lata at several points are the cutaneous nerves of the thigh, some of which have been already seen, but the follow- ing are now to be traced to their distributions and then to their origins, the fascia being removed as may be necessary for the latter purpose. The Internal cutaneous nerve (Fig. 45, 7, 8) is a branch of the anterior crural, and divides at a variable point into two branches, outer and inner. The outer branch frequently perforates the sartorius muscle, which it supplies, and becomes cutaneous in the lower third of the thigh, the branches reaching as far as the patella. The inner branch having crossed the femoral artery appears close to the saphena vein a little above the knee, and its branches unite with those of the other branch and with the internal saphenous [nerve. Occasionally a junction between this nerve and the obturator may be traced on the inner side of the middle of the thigh. The Long or Internal Saphenous nerve (Fig. 45, 16) (the course of which will be afterwards seen) becomes cutaneous at the inner side * This last is often described as coming; from the superficial division, but the above is the more common arrangement.