112 THE BUTTOCK. The veins corresponding to the sciatic artgry open into the internal iliac vein. The Pudic Artery is only seen in its course over the spine of the ischium, as it winds out of the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis, to re-enter the pelvis by the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen above the tendon of the obturator internus. The artery is accom- panied by its vein and by two nerves, the pudic nerve lying to its inner side and the nerve to the obturator internus to its outer side. A branch of artery will be found both at the upper and lower borders of the quadratus. The upper is a branch of either the in- ternal circumflex or obturator arteries accompanying the tendon of the obturator externus, and the lower, which is more constant, is one of the terminal branches of the internal circumflex artery. The Gluteal Nerve (superior) (Fig. 53, 3) is a branch of the lumbo-sacral cord, and emerges from the pelvis with the gluteal artery above the pyriformis. It divides into two branches, which lie between the gluteus piedius and minimus and supply them, the lower one going forward to the tensor fascia} femoris. The Small Sciatic Nerve (Fig. 53,8) is one of the main branches of the sacral plexus, and appears at the lower border of the pyrifor- mis to become the cutaneous nerve at the back of the thigh. As soon as it emerges from the pelvis it gives cutaneous branches to the skin over the gluteus maximus, and inferior gluteal branches to the under surface of the muscle itself. It then gives cutaneous branches to the thigh, one of the largest of which winds below the tuberosity of the ischium to the perinaeum, and is called the inferior 'pudendal or nerve of Soemmering; and the nerve itself may be traced as far as the pop- liteal space. The Great Sciatic Nerve (Fig. 53, 16) is the largest trunk of the sacral plexus, and appears at the lower border of the pyriformis (or occasionally through its fibres). It runs midway between the tuber- osity of the ischium and the great trochanter, and disappears beneath the hamstring muscles. Properly speaking this nerve gives no branches in this region, but frequently the nerves to the quadratus and hip-joint are derived from it instead of from the sacral plexus itself. The Nerve to the Obturator Internus (Fig. 53, 5) arises from the upper part of the sacral plexus, and leaves the pelvis below the pyriformis, taking the same course as the pudic vessels and nerve over the spine of the ischium, but lying to their outer side. As it winds into the lesser foramen it gives a branch to the superior gemellus, and then supplies the fibres of the obturator within the pelvis.