FRONT OF THE LEG AND FOOT. 144 the great toe, being closely connected with the first phalanx, of which it is the special extensor (Duchenne), by short fibrous bands (Fig. 73, 2). The extensors of the toes also act secondarily as flexors of the foot, i.e., bend it upwards. The peroneus tertius assists in this latter action. The rare form of club-foot ‘ talipes calcaneus ’ is produced by the action of these muscles. They are all supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The Extensor Brevis Digitorum (Fig. 72, ii) is the only muscle of the back of the foot. It arises from the upper surface of the greater process of the os calcis ; from the calcaneo-astragaloicl ligament; and from the lower border of the anterior annular liga- ment. It ends in four tendons, which pass obliquely across the foot to be inserted into the four inner toes, joining the general expansion of the extensor tendons, except on the great toe, where the tendon is inserted separately into the base of the first phalanx after crossing the dorsal artery of the foot. The extensor brevis is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The Anterior Tibial Artery (Fig. 75, 2) is a branch of the popliteal, and enters the front of the leg between the tibia and fibula through the interosseous membrane. Its direction is from a point midway between the outer tuberosity of the tibia and the head of the fibula to the centre of the instep. The artery lies at first upon the interosseous membrane between the tibialis anticus and extensor longus digitorum, and then between the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis ; but in the lower part of the leg it winds on to the tibia, and becomes superficial above the ankle-joint between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and extensor proprius pollicis. It then passes beneath the annular ligament and is crossed by the extensor proprius pollicis, after which it changes its name to dorsal artery of the foot. Two venae comites accompany the artery; the anterior tibial nerve lies to its outer side as far as about the middle of the leg, then crosses it, and in most cases again gets to its outer side at the ankle. Surgery (Fig. 74).—The anterior tibial artery may be readily tied above the ankle, by an incision three inches long upon the outer side of the tendon of the tibialis anticus and parallel to it. The artery will be found upon the front of the tibia between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor proprius pollicis, with the nerve to its outer side. The artery may also be reached on the dead body in the upper part of its course, but it lies so deeply between muscles that the