355 THE TRANSVERSE FACIAL ARTERY. 6. The Angular artery (21), which is the terminal branch and anas- tomoses with the ophthalmic. Surgery.—The facial artery may he compressed or tied immedi- ately in front of the masseter, where its pulsation can he readily felt through the thin platysma. The position of the coronary arteries immediately beneath the mucous membrane should he borne in mind in operating for hare-lip or cancer, as it is necessary to thrust the hare-lip pin deeply into the substance of the lip, in order to control J the haemorrhage effectually. The Facial Vein commences at the inner angle of the orbit in the angular vein, formed by the frontal and supra-orbital veins. It then runs obliquely across the face to the edge of the masseter, where it lies close to the outer side of the artery, and, after receiving the anterior internal maxillary branch from the pterygoid region, passes into the neck to join the internal jugular vein. It is crossed by the zygomatici muscles, but lies upon Stenson’s duct. Its branches corre- spond to those of the artery. The Transverse Facial Artery (Fig. 187, 12) arises from the temporal artery in the parotid gland, and appears on the face above the parotid duct, to run transversely inwards towards the nose and anastomose with the facial artery. In a well-injected body the terminations of the infra-orbital and inferior dental arteries will be found emerging at the infra-orbital and mental foramina, with branches of the 2nd and 3rd divisions of the 5tli nerve. The infra-orbital foramen will be found between the levator labii superioris and levator anguli oris, and the mental fora- men beneath the depressor anguli oris. The frontal and supra-orbital arteries should also be traced if the scalp has not already been fully dissected (v. p. 294). [The skin being removed from the opposite side of the face in the same way as above directed, a dissection is to be made of the nerves alone, all other tissues being sacrificed for that purpose. To find the facial nerve, the best way is to cut transversely into the parotid gland about half an inch below the zygoma, and to dissect carefully to some depth to reach a large branch of the nerve, which passes through its substance. One branch having been found, it is to be followed care- fully backwards and forwards, when it will lead to other branches ; and the parotid gland is to be removed piecemeal to show the rami- fications of the nerve, which are then to be traced as far as possible towards the median line.] The Facial Nerve (portio dura of the 7th pair) (Fig. 188, 17) leaves the skull at the stylo-mastoid foramen, and gives off immedi- ately the posterior auricular, digastric, and stylo-hyoid branches. a a 2