233 THE SUPRA-RENAL CAPSULE. as high as the eleventh rib, and therefore lies on a small portion of the diaphragm and on the quadratus lnmborum and psoas muscles, hut the right kidney is always a little lower than the left. The upper extremities of both organs are nearer the spine than the lower, and upon them are fixed the supra-renal capsules. It will be remembered that in front of the kidney was the peritoneum, with the vertical part of the duodenum and the ascending colon on the right, and the lower part of the spleen and the descending colon on the left side. The outer border of the kidney is convex, the inner or hilum concave, and the vessels entering at this border are the renal vein, renal artery, and ureter, which lie in that relation to one another from before backwards. The Ureter (Fig. 116, n) should be traced out, and will be seen to lie over the psoas muscle, to pass beneath the spermatic vessels, and, having crossed the common or external iliac artery, to disappear in the pelvis, where it will be afterwards traced to the bladder. The Supra-renal Capsule (Fig. 116, 5) is a small triangular yellow body, somewhat resembling a cocked-hat, placed immediately above each kidney and lying against the crus of the diaphragm. The vessels to it should be traced out, and one kidney and capsule are then to be removed and put aside with the viscera for rfter- examination. [The kidney being removed or turned out of the way, the fasciae covering the psoas, quadratus lumborum, and iliacus are to be defined, and afterwards those muscles are to be cleaned, all nerves pass- ing out of them being carefully preserved.] Fascia of the quadratus lumborum.—The anterior lamella of the fascia lumborum, which forms part of the origin of the transversalis abdominis muscle (v. p. 194), will be found to lie in front of the quadratus muscle; what has been described as the ligamentum arcuatum externum of the diaphragm being merely the border of this, artificially isolated. The Fascia over the psoas is a distinct structure, although connected partially with the fascia of the quadratus. It is continuous with the iliac fascia in the pelvis, and passes upwards over the psoas to be attached to the lower edge of the ligamentum arcuatum internum of the diaphragm, and to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae from which the muscle takes its origin. It is owing to this fascia that “ psoas abscess,” the result of diseased spine, is conducted along the psoas muscle to the inner side of the thigh. The Iliac fascia covers the iliacus intemus muscle and is con- tinuous with the fascia over the psoas magnus, being strengthened