71 THE SHOULDER JOINT. The Transverse Ligament (Fig. 30, 4) is a short hand con- verting the suprascapular notch into a hole, and giving origin to part of the omo-hyoid muscle. The suprascapular artery goes over the ligament, hut the nerve beneath it. The movements between the scapula and clavicle are very slight, hut the two hones move freely together upon the thorax, the sterno- clavicular joint {vide Side of Neck) admitting of movement in every direction. The scapula is raised by the trapezius (upper part), levator anguli scapulae and rhomhodei muscles ; being again de- pressed by the weight of the arm, assisted probably by the pectoralis minor, the lower fibres of the trapezius, and (indirectly) by the latissimus dorsi. It is drawn forward by the serratus magnus, and backward by the rhomboidei. The rotation of the scapula upon the ribs, by which the head of the bone is elevated and the arm is raised beyond a right angle with the trunk, is due to the trapezius and to the strong lower fibres of the serratus magnus ; the upper fibres of the latter muscle, the rhomboidei and the pectoralis minor acting in the opposite direction. The Shoulder Joint. [The muscles surrounding the shoulder are to be carefully removed, those which are inserted into the tubercles of tlife humerus being dissected as close to the capsular ligament as possible without injuring it, and then cut short.] The shoulder is an enarthrodial or ball-and-socket joint, and has therefore a capsular ligament. It is surrounded and strengthened by thd^following muscles :—above by the supra-spinatus, below by the long head of the triceps, in front by the subscapularis, and behind by the infra-spinatus and teres minor. The shoulder-joint admits of the following movements—flexion, extension, abduction, adduction, rotation, and circumduction, which may be conveniently taken to resemble the same movements in the hip-joint. Thus the humerus is flexed (in front of the trunk) by the pectoralis major and coraco-bracliialis muscles, and the anterior fibres of the deltoid. It is extended (behind the trunk) by the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and posterior fibres of the deltoid. It is adducted by the weight of the limb, by the action of the pectoralis major, latissimus dorsi, the two teres muscles, and coraco-brachialis, and abducted by the deltoid and supra-spinatus. Rotation of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity is produced outwards by the infra- spinatus and teres minor, inwards by the subscapularis, teres major, latissimus dorsi, and pectoralis major muscles. The last two muscles