308 POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK. c. The Small Occipital Nerve (Fig. 164, 3) [from the second nerve] is always to be found at the posterior margin of the stemo- mastoid muscle, and runs directly upwards to the scalp, where it has been already seen (p. 296). The Descending Branches (Fig. 164,21), sternal, clavicular, and acromial, [from the loop between the 3rd and 4th nerves], take the directions indicated by their names, and passing over the clavicle are distributed to the skin upon the pectoral muscle and shoulder, where they are seen by the dissector of the arm. [The anterior and posterior boundaries of the triangle (the sterno- mastoid and trapezius) are now to be defined, but only the edges of the muscles need be cleaned. The descending nerves being detached and turned up, the branches of the deep cervical plexus and the spinal-accessory nerve passing obliquely between the borders of the stemo-mastoid and the trapezius are to be dissected out, and also the omo-hyoid muscle, which will be found at a variable distance above the clavicle ; the external jugular vein is to be followed as far as- convenient.] The Deep Cervical Fascia, which is very dense, is now seen. It commences at the spinous processes of the vertebra; and encloses the trapezius muscle, then crosses the posterior triangle to split and enclose the stemo-mastoid, and so on to the median line of the neck. At the lower part of the triangle it gives a special covering to the omo-hyoid muscle, and is attached to the clavicle and first rib- It also gives sheaths to the deep muscles and vessels of the neck. [To see the floor of the triangle the fascia is to be removed, and will be most readily detached by beginning above at the junction of the stemo-mastoid and trapezius, and carrying the knife obliquel)r downwards and backwards so as to be parallel to the fibres of the muscles beneath. It should be removed only as low as the omo- hyoid at present, and all branches of nerve should be carefully preserved.] The Posterior Triangle (Fig. 164) is the space bounded in front by the sterno-mastoid, behind by the trapezius ; the base of the triangle being formed by the middle third of the clavicle, and its apex by the meeting of the anterior and posterior boundaries at the occiput. It is covered in by skin, superficial and deep fascise, and at the lower part by the platysma. Its floor is formed from above downwards by the splenius capitis, levator anguli scapula;, scalenus posticus and scalenus medius, and the upper digitation of the serratus magnus, which cannot be seen at present. The splenius colli does not form part of the floor, because it is