SUPERIOR MESENTERIC ARTERY. 213 being attached by firm areolar tissue to the diaphragm. The doubled edges of the upper layer of the coronary ligament on each side are called the right and left lateral ligaments. The false ligaments of the Bladder are formed by the peritoneum ; they are five in number, two posterior, two lateral, and one superior. The posterior false ligaments are the margins of the recto-vesical pouch, and are. formed by the membrane being reflected over the obliterated hypogastric arteries. The lateral false ligaments are the pieces of peritoneum reaching from the bladder to the sides of the pelvis, and the superior is that passing over the obliterated hypogas- tric arteries and urachus to the umbilicus. In the female (Fig. 109), the pelvis is divided transversely by a fold of peritoneum reaching from each side of the uterus to the side of the pelvis, and called the broad ligament of the uterus ; in which will be found the ovary, the Fallopian tube, and the round ligament. It is by the open mouth of the Fallopian tube that the peritoneum has a communication with the mucous membrane of the uterus. The Uterus and Vagina intervene between the rectum and bladder of the female, and the peritoneum is prolonged from the rectum to the posterior wall of the vagina, and then over the uterus to the bladder, thus forming the redo-vaginal and utero-vesical pouches, the margins of which are the anterior and posterior ligaments of the uterus. In the child an arrangement may occasionally be found which is extremely rare in the adult—the posterior layer of the great omentum ascending directly to the pancreas, and then being again reflected to the colon to form its meso-colon. Mesenteric Vessels. [In order to dissect the mesenteric arteries, the great omentum and transverse colon must be turned up over the cartilages of the ribs, and the small intestines be drawn down. Beginning at the upper end of the jejunum (i. e., at the point where the small in- testine can first be distinctly seen), the dissector should remove the whole of the anterior layer of the mesentery as far as the edge of the bowel, where it is to be cut off. This must be continued along the whole length of the small intestine, and the mesentery will be found to pass obliquely downwards from left to right. After the vessels contained in the mesentery are cleaned, the under layer of the meso- colon must be removed in the same way to expose the vessels going to the large intestine.] The Superior Mesenteric Artery (Fig. 110, io) is the vessel which supplies the small and half the large intestines. A branch of