133 THE FLEXOR BREVIS DIGITORUM. The central portion of the fascia gives origin to muscular fibres by its deep surface, and also by two intermuscvdar septa which will subsequently be seen on each side of the flexor brevis digitorum. The lateral portions of the plantar fascia are much thinner than that in the centre, and mainly cover the muscles of the great and little toes on the inner and outer sides of the foot, but there is also a strong band on the outer side running from the outer tubercle of the calcaneum to the base of fifth metatarsal bone. [The central portion of the fascia is to be cut across about two inches from the heel, and may then be turned down over the toes without injuring the digital nerves, when the flexor brevis digitorum will be exposed in part, and the intermuscular septa on each side may be seen. The lateral portions of the fascia are to be removed, and the abductor pollicis and abductor minimi digiti cleaned.] The First Layer of Muscles consists of the flexor brevis digi- torum in the middle, the abductor pollicis to the inner side, and the abductor minimi digiti to the outer side. The Flexor Brevis Digitorum (Fig. 67, 5) arises from the great tuberosity of the os calcis ; from the plantar fascia covering it (which has therefore been left undisturbed); and from the intermuscular septa on each side. It divides into four tendons, which pass through tendinous sheaths on the under surfaces of the foul smaller toes, and are inserted, each by two slips, into the bases of their second phalanges. Passing between the subdivisions of each tendon is the corresponding tendon of the long flexor, which goes to the terminal phalanx ; and thus the arrangement is precisely similar to that found in the hand, and the flexor brevis might be spoken of as perforatus, and the flexor longus as perforans. The sheaths of the tendons also resemble those of the hand, but are smaller. Beginning over the heads of the metatarsal bones, each sheath is joined by a process of plantar fascia (which splits to be attached to each side of it), and then extends to the base of the terminal phalanx. The sheath is strong opposite each phalanx (liga- mentum vaginale), but thinner over the joints, so as not to impede their motion ; and when divided, will be found to be lined by a synovial membrane which is reflected over the tendons, and from which bands (vincula vasculosa) connecting the tendons with the sheath are derived. Small elastic bands (ligamentco brevia) connecting each tendon of the flexor brevis with the front of the first phalanx exist as in the hand. The Abductor Pollicis (Fig. 67, 3) arises from the internal