PALM OF THE HAND. 02 tlie annular ligament, lying to its ulnar side, and immediately divides into a superficial and a deep portion. The deep branch (28) accom- panies the profunda branch of the ulnar artery between the muscles of the little finger, all of which it supplies, and will be seen again in the deep dissection of the palm. The superficial division subdivides into two digital branches which supply one and a half fingers, the inner one running on the ulnar side of the little finger, and the other bifurcating at the roots of the fingers into branches for the radial side of the little and ulnar side of the ring finger, the latter uniting with a branch of the median nerve. The digital nerves can be traced along the sides of the tendinous sheaths, lying superficially to the arteries and joining one another in the pulp of the finger, where the corpuscles of touch (Paccini) are developed like little buds upon a twig. A large branch also passes backward at the tip of the finger to supply the matrix of the nail. The ulnar nerve gives a small branch to the palmaris brevis muscle.* The Anterior Annular Ligament (Fig. 25, 1) is the broad band of fascia binding down the iiexor tendons at the wrist, and is only a thickened portion of the common fascia of the limb. It is attached to the scaphoid bone and to the ridge of the trapezium on the outer side, and to the unciform process of the unciform bone and slightly to the pisiform bone on the inner side. The ulnar artery and nerve and the cutaneous palmar nerves cross it, and also the tendon of the palmaris longus in part. (The tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris sends an expansion over the ulnar artery and nerve, which must not be mistaken for the annular ligament itself.) When divided in the middle, its outer attachment will be seen to be perforated by the tendon of the flexor carpi radialis, and to have beneath it the median nerve and the tendons of the flexors of the thumb and fingers. Beneath the annular ligament and closely connected with the tendons and median nerve, will be found a quantity of loose bursal tissue, containing a synovial cavity, which generally, but not constantly, communicates with the special sheath of the thumb and little finger. The use of this tissue is to facilitate the movements of the tendons, and it occasionally becomes diseased, when fluid is developed in it in considerable quantity, and forms a fluctuating tumour above and * It will be observed that the number of fingers supplied by the ulnar artery is the complement of that supplied by the nerve, and that the same rule holds with respect to the radial artery and the median or radial nerves, thus :— Ulnar artery . . . 3| fingers. 1 ^ Ulnar nerve . . . . If fingers. J Eadial artery . . 1 i fingers. 1 Median or Eadial nerve . . 3| fingers. /