26G THE PELVIS. The Prostate Gland (Fig. 147, 17) is now seen in front of the bladder, and enclosed by a process of recto-vesical fascia which forms the capsule of the gland. It is placed over the commencement of the third part of the rectum, and in front of, but below the level of, the bladder. In old age the prostate is frequently enlarged, in which case it presses upon the rectum as well as upon the urethra ; the latter passes through its substance nearer the upper than the lower surface. Within the capsule derived from the recto-vesical fascia is the special fibrous capsule of the gland ; between the two is the large prostatic plexus of veins. [A transverse cut is now to be made at the bottom of the recto- vesical pouch, which will allow the bladder to be drawn forward, when a little dissection will expose the surface of the viscus uncovered by peritoneum and lying over the rectum.] The portion of the base of the bladder uncovered by peritoneum is triangular in shape, and is bounded on each side by the vasu deferentia and vesiculce seminales ; the base of the triangle is formed by the re- flection of peritoneum at the line of the entrance of the ureters, and the apex is at the back of the prostate. It is here that the bladder is opened when punctured from the rectum. A process of the recto-vesical layer of pelvic fascia can now be traced between the rectum and bladder, giving a covering to those organs, to the prostate, and to the vesicuhe seminales. The Vesiculse Seminales (Fig. 147, 14) are two convoluted sacs, situated on the under surface of the bladder, and converging to enter the prostate close to the median line. They are somewhat expanded at their posterior extremities, which are about two inches apart and reach nearly to the recto-vesical pouch. They have the vasa deferentia lying close to their inner sides, and together they form the sides of the triangle mentioned above. The vasa deferentia become somewhat enlarged as they pass be- neath the bladder ; they lie close to the inner sides of the vesiculse, and the duct of each vesicula joins the corresponding vas deferens at the prostate, thus forming the common ejaculatory duct. In the Female (Fig. 148), the short urethra will be seen to pas3 obliquely upwards to the bladder ; and immediately below it is the vagina passing up to the uterus, which must be held in position by a string passed through its fundus. The rectum occupies the same position as in the male, but is rather larger ; and the peritoneum will be seen to pass from it to the posterior surface of the upper part