THE PERINEUM. 169 sure of the labia and the anal orifice, and is from an inch to an inch- and-a-half long, hut becomes considerably elongated during labour. The finger should be introduced into the vagina to ascertain the position and condition of the cervix and os uteri. Boundaries of the Perinseum.—These are the same in both sexes, and can be best ascertained by placing a pelvis, on which the ligaments are preserved, in the same position as the subject, when the space under examination will be seen to correspond with the in- ferior aperture of the pelvis. In front is the symphysis pubis, with the divergent rami extending to the tuberosities of the ischia, which form the lateral boundaries. Posteriorly the great sacro-sciatic liga- ments extend to the sacrum, but in the recent subject the margins of the glutei maximi muscles overlap these and reach to the coccyx, which is the posterior limit of the space. The perinseum has been generally considered to resemble the heraldic lozenge, but has more aptly been compared to an inverted ace-of-hearts (Thompson). The inferior aperture of the pelvis is larger in the female than in the male, but considerable variation in the space between the rami of the pubes will be found in different individuals. The perinseal space may be conveniently divided into halves, by a line passing from the anterior border of one tuberosity of the ischium to the other ; the anterior or urethral half contains the urino-genital organs, and the posterior or rectal half the lower extremity of the bowel. Posterior Space in both Sexes. [A little cotton-wool is to be introduced into the rectum, and the anus is then to be carefully sewn up, the stitches being placed as near the white line mentioned above as possible. A transverse incision is then to be made in front of the anus, connecting the two tuberosities, and a similar one across the lower extremity of the coccyx. These are to be joined by incisions carried round the anus as near the sutures as possible, and the skin is to be reflected on each side.] The Sphincter Ani (Fig. 88, 16) (external) surrounds the anus and is close beneath the skin. It consists of two symmetrical halves, which are attached to the tip of the coccyx behind, and meet in front of the anus at the ‘ central point of the perinseum.’ The external sphincter controls the lower end of the bowel, and is supplied'by the inferior hsemorrhoidal nerve and by a branch of the fourth sacral nerve. The Internal Sphincter cannot be seen at present. It is merely