518 THE EYEBALL. ophthalmic. Within this is the tunica Ruyscliiana, a plexus ot capillaries. The dark pigment of the choroid is interspersed among the vessels, and is washed out when the eye is immersed in water. is the Ciliary Muscle (Fig. 265,8), composed of unstriped fibre and hav- ing a grey appearance. The anterior part of the ciliary muscle is con- nected with the sclerotic coat, and the posterior part is attached to that portion of the choroid which is called the ciliary body, and from which the ciliary processes pass inwards to be connected with the capsule of the lens. Thus the ciliary muscle, by drawing forward the anterior part of the choroid, relaxes the suspensory ligament of the lens and allows its own elasticity to come into play, in consequence of which the lens increases in thickness in order to accommodate the focus of the eye to near objects. [In order to see the ciliary body and processes, a third eye should be divided circularly through the sclerotic and choroid coats, without damaging the vitreous humour ; the vitreous humour and lens are then to be carefully separated from the anterior part of the choroid, the ciliary processes being detached from the hyaloid membrane, upon which they will leave a circle marked with more or less pigment (circle of Zinn). The ciliary processes and iris are now seen from behind. If the lens and vitreous humour be drawn out of the fundus of an eye and left attached to the ciliary processes, a magnified view of these will be obtained.] Surrounding the iris is a ring which Fig. 266. Fig. 266.—The choroid coat and the distribution of theivasa vortieosa (from Wilson, after Arnold). 1. Part of the sclerotic coat. 2. Optic nerve. 3. 3. Choroid coat. 4. Ciliary muscle. 5. Iris. 6. 6. Yasa vortieosa. 7. 7. Trunks of the vasa vortieosa at the point where they have pierced the sclerotica. 8, 8. Posterior ciliary veins which leave the eyeball in company with the posterior ciliary arteries, by piercing the scle- rotic at 9. 10, One of the long ciliary nerves, accompanied by a long ciliary artery.