GO PALM OF THE HAND. rapidly, the cuticle will probably be detached in part, when upon examining its deep surface, depressions corresponding to the papillae will be found. A fulness on each side of the palm corresponds to the special muscles of the thumb and little finger respectively, and the terms “ thenar ” and “ hypo-thenar ” are sometimes applied to them. The palm presents three Curved lines, the proximal and distal ones being curved in opposite directions, whilst the middle runs obliquely across the palm to join the proximal line at the outer side of the hand. It will be found on dissection that the point to which the superficial palmar arch reaches, corresponds pretty accurately with the centre of this middle line, whilst the point of bifurcation of the digital arteries is midway between the distal or anterior line and the web of the fingers. [An incision is to be made down the middle of the palm to the roots of the fingers, where another is to be drawn across the whole width of the hand, and the two flaps of skin are to be dissected up and turned in opposite directions. It will Ire found best to pay little attention to the unimportant cutaneous palmar branches of nerves, and to carry the knife at once through the fine granular fat of the palm down to the glistening palmar fascia and annular ligament. The fascia covering the muscles of the thumb and little finger is much thinner than that in the centre of tire hand, and will require care for its preservation. The skin may be at once reflected from over the outer side of the hand, but upon the inner side a small trans- verse muscle (palmaris brevis) is to be found just below the pisiform bone, and is to be preserved with the piece of skin into which it is inserted.] The Palmar Fascia (Fig. 14, 9) consists of three portions. The central is triangular in shape and is attached to the annular ligament by its apex (into which the palmaris longus is inserted), whilst it expands at the roots of the fingers to become connected with the sheaths of the flexor tendons. Opposite the heads of the metacarpal bones it splits into four parts, and numerous transverse fibres will be found strengthening the membrane at these points, where also the digital vessels and nerves become subcutaneous. Each of the four slips which have been mentioned finally subdivides to be attached to the sides of the four sheaths of the flexor tendons. The lateral por- tions of the palmar fascia are much thinner, and simply form a covering for the muscles of the thumb and little finger. The Palmaris Brevis (Fig. 13,16) is a small muscle placed trans- versely below the pisiform bone and immediately beneath the skin. Arising from the inner edge of the central fascia it crosses the ulnar