THE PELVIS. 276 Below the plexus are the branches of the other sacral nerves. These last can seldom be made out well, since the nerves them- selves are very small, and a quantity of fibrous tissue is mixed with them. From the 4th Sacral nerve a branch may be traced to its junction with the 5th nerve, and from the 4th also are derived visceral branches to the bladder and rectum which communicate with the sympathetic, and muscular branches to the levator ani and coccygeus ; as well as the licemorrhoidal branch which passes through the levator ani or between this muscle and the coccygeus to the perinseum, to supply the external sphincter. The 5th Sacral nerve communicates with the 4th and the coccygeal nerve, and terminates by piercing the coccygeus muscle, which it supplies. The Coccygeal nerve (6tli) also pierces the coccygeus muscle to end on the back of the coccyx. The Gangliated Cord of the Sympathetic (Fig. 151, 8) may be traced on each side of the sacrum internally to the foramina, and has upon it four or five ganglia-; the two cords unite on the coccyx in the ganglion irrvpar. Communicating branches are given to the sacral nerves and to the hypogastric plexus. The Hypogastric plexus is placed on the front of the sacrum, and is continuous with the sympathetic plexus upon the aorta. It is con- tinued forward upon the two internal iliac arteries to form the pelvic plexuses, which are placed on each side of the bladder and rectum. In addition there are upon the several hollow viscera plexuses from the sympathetic, parts of which are visible in the various stages of the dissection. They are derived from the pelvic plexuses, and are distributed over the branches of arteries supplied to the several viscera, receiving corresponding names. The Pyriformis Muscle (Fig. 151, 20) if not sufficiently well seen, may be more fully exposed by drawing the sacral plexus out of the sacro-sciatic foramen. It arises from the front of the sacrum between the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 4th sacral foramina, from the great 30. Visceral branches (cut). 31. Inferior pudendal nerve. 32. Fifth sacral nerve. 33. Small sciatic nerve. 34. Coccygeus muscle. 36. Sixth or coccygeal nerve. 38. Internal pudic nerve. 40. Inferior hEcmorrhoidal nerve. 42. Posterior superficial perinaeal nerve. 44. Anterior superficial perinaeal nerve. 46. Deep perinaeal nerves to bulb and muscles.