429 THE MEDIASTINA. as a muscle of expiration by depressing the ribs, and is supplied by the intercostal nerves. [The sternum, which is still attached by the muscles of the front of the neck, is to be divided in the centre, and the two halves are to be turned aside, so as to preserve the internal mammary arteries for after- examination.] On opening the thorax as directed, the lungs will be exposed by the necessary division of the pleurae, and will be seen to occupy the sides of the chest, having probably, unless attached by old adhesions, fallen back so as to leave the pericardium exposed. The great vessels of the heart will be seen emerging from the upper part of the peri- cardium, and if the lungs are fully collapsed, the roots of the lungs will be visible on each side. The pericardium will in all probability have been opened at the upper part to allow of the injection of the body, in which case a portion of the heart may be seen within it, and it may be advantageously closed with a stitc h. The Pleurae (Fig. 225) are two shut sacs of serous membrane lining the thorax and covering the lung, but have been opened in removing the sternum. One of the lungs is to be drawn forward, when its pleura can be readily traced over the inner surface of the sternum and ribs (costal or parietal layer) on to the back of the lung; thence over the lung (pulmonary layer) to the front of the root of the lung, by which it is directed to the pericardium, and carried forward to the sternum a little to one side of the median line. Frequently it will be impossible to trace the pleura in this manner, owing to the adhesions which have formed between the pleura costalis and pleura pulmonalis as the result of inflammation. When the lung is drawn forward, below its root will be found a fold of pleura connect- ing the lower lobe with the side of the pericardium, which is called the ligamentum latum pulmonis. The pleura will be seen to be reflected on the upper surface of the diaphragm below, and to be prolonged in a conical form above the first rib, where it may be felt in relation with the subclavian artery. The diaphragm rises higher on the right side than on the left, owing to the presence of the liver, and the heart has a direction to the left; hence the right bag of the pleura is the wider whilst the left is the longer of the two, and the lungs correspond in shape. The Mediastina (Fig. 225), are the spaces between the pleurae, and are three in number, anterior, middle, and posterior. The Anterior Mediastinum, which is now exposed, is the small space bounded by the sternum in front, the pericardium behind, and