BACK OF THE LEG. 12G Fig. 61. the outer side of that of the tibialis posticus at the ankle, and passes through a separate division of the internal an- nular ligament to the sole of the foot. The Tibialis Posticus (Fig. 61, 8) is the only one of the deep muscles which is attached to both bones of the leg, between which it therefore lies, its tendinous surface forming septa between it and the adjacent muscles. It arises from the posterior surface of the tibia, below the oblique line and external to the flexor longus digitorum, to within two inches of the ankle ; from nearly the whole length of the interosseous membrane ; and from the whole of the internal surface of the fibula immediately behind the interosseous line,* as well as from the intermuscular septa on each side, which are continuous with the aponeurosis over it. The muscle is overlapped by the flexor digitorum, and between the tibial and fibular- origins the anterior tibial vessels pass. The fibres end in a single broad tendon, which passes beneath and then to the inner side of that of the * The internal surface here spoken of is not the sur- face called internal by Cloquet, Oruveilhier, Wilson, and Holden, which includes the surface in front of the inter- osseous line,—nor that considered internal by Ward and Gray, which extends from the interosseous line to the posterior border of the bone; but is the surface existing only in the middle of the bone, between the interosseous line and an oblique line which cuts it off from the posterior surface. The fibula may be best considered as having a quadrilateral shaft with anterior, external, posterior, and internal (partial) surfaces. This view has been recently adopted in Mr. Wagstaffe’s “ Osteology,” and the new edition of “ Quain’s Anatomy.” Fig. 61.—Deep layer of muscles of the back of the leg (from Wilson). 1. Lower extremity of the femur. 2. Ligamentum posticum Winslowii. 3. Tendon of the semi-membranosus muscle. 4. Internal lateral ligament of the knee-joint. 5. External lateral ligament. 6. Popliteus muscle. 7. Flexor longus digitorum. 8. Tibialis posticus. 9. Flexor longus pollicis. 10. Peroneus longus. 11. Peroneus brevis. 12. Tendo Achillis divided near its insertion into the os calcis. 13. Tendons of the tibialis posticus and flexor longus digitorum, just as they are about to past beneath the internal annular ligament of the ankle ; the in- terval between the latter tendon and the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis is for the poste- rior tibial vessels and nerve.