483 THE SPINAL NERVES. ment the nerves to the upper extremity have their origins; from the lower enlargement the lumbar and sacral nerves arise, which, lying side by side before they leave the vertebral canal, form the cauda equina. The cord presents an anterior median fissure, which extends for its whole length, and a. posterior median fissure, wliich is most distinct at the upper and lower parts of the cord. A lateral fissure extends along the line of attachment of the poste- rior roots of the spinal nerves, thus dividing each half of the cord into an antero-lateral and a posterior column. The anterior roots of the nerves emerge from the antero-lateral columns, and these are sometimes considered to mark a further sub- division into anterior and lateral columns. At the bottom of the median fissures is the commissure, which is nearer to the anterior than the posterior surface of the cord. The Spinal Nerves (Fig. 251) are thirty-one in number on each side of the cord. Each nerve has been seen to arise by two roots, the posterior (with the exception of the first nerve) being larger than the anterior. The posterior roots, with the exception probably of the first nerve, have each a ganglion which is generally placed in the intervertebral foramen, at which point and immediately beyond the ganglion, the anterior (motor) and posterior (sensory) roots unite to form a spinal nerve of mixed endowments. The first two cervical, with the sacral and coccygeal nerves, are exceptions to the general rule as regards the position of the ganglia. The ganglia of the two cervical nerves lie upon the arches of the atlas and axis, at which point the roots of the nerves unite. The ganglia of the sacral and coccygeal nerves are within the sacral canal. Each spinal nerve divides into an anterior and a posterior trunk, the anterior divisions being the larger throughout, except in the case of the 1st and 2nd cervical nerves, of which the posterior is larger than the anterior division. The majority of the spinal nerves divide just outside the intervertebral foramina, but in the first cervical, the last sacral, and the coccygeal nerves, the division takes place within the dura mater; and the upper four sacral nerves divide within the sacral canal, the anterior and posterior trunks emerging at the anterior and posterior sacral foramina. On a transverse section (Fig. 250) the spinal cord will be found to consist of white nervous matter, in which are seen two grey crescents with their convexities turned toward one another and connected together by a grey commissure, in front of which are some white fibres forming the white commissure. i i 2