110 THE BUTTOCK. The obturator interims and gemelli are rotators outwards of the thigh. The obturator is supplied by a special branch from the upper part of the sacral plexus, which also gives a branch to the superior gemellus ; the inferior gemellus is supplied by the nerve to the quadratus from the sacral plexus. The Tendon of the Obturator Externus (Fig. 53, 12) will be found lying deeply between the inferior gemellus and the quadratus muscle. The origin of the muscle has been already seen (p. 105) and the tendon, after passing through the groove below the aceta- bulum, is inserted into the digital fossa at the root of the great trochanter. The obturator externus is a rotator outwards of the thigh, and is supplied by the obturator nerve. The Quadratus Femoris (Fig. 52, 13), so named from its quad- rilateral shape, arises from the outer side of the tuberosity of the ischium external to the hamstring muscles, and passes horizontally to be inserted on the back of the great trochanter immediately above the adductor magnus, with which it is sometimes continuous. The point of insertion has been termed the ‘ linea quadrati ’ (though a distinct line seldom if ever exists at the spot), which must not be confounded with the well-marked posterior inter-trochanteric line. The quadratus femoris is an external rotator of the thigh, and is supplied by a special branch from the sacral plexus, which also gives a twig to the gemellus inferior. The Gluteal Artery (Fig. 53, 3) is a branch of the posterior division of the internal iliac artery, and emerges from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen above the pyriformis. It appears at the lower border of the gluteus minimus, and divides into a superficial and a deep portion. The superficial division is distributed to the under surface of the gluteus maximus ; the deep subdivides into superior and inferior branches. The superior deep gluteal artery runs along the middle curved line of the ilium between the gluteus medius and minimus, both of which it supplies, and ends at the anterior border of the ilium by anasto- mosing with the superior branch of the external circumflex artery of the thigh. The inferior deep gluteal artery crosses the gluteus minimus to the great trochanter, to supply the parts in its neighbour- hood, and end in the tensor vaginae femoris. Venae comites accompany the branches of the artery and open into the internal iliac vein. The Sciatic Artery is a branch of the anterior division of the internal iliac artery, and emerges from the pelvis through the great sacro-sciatic foramen below the pyriformis. It gives large inferior