SCARPA’S TRIANGLE. 94. lower part of the space, and in the direction of the limb, which is to he abducted. The incision should be carried at once through the fascia so as to expose the fibres of the sartorius at the lower part of the wound, which are readily recognizable by their oblique direction. The muscle being turned a little outwards, the fibrous sheath of the vessels will be seen, and must be carefully opened with the scalpel, when the artery can be isolated and secured. The needle should be passed from within outwards, great care being taken not to include the vein wThich is behind, or the long saphenous nerve which is to the outer side of the vessel. When the femoral artery above the profunda (common femoral) is tied, the circulation is carried on by the obturator, gluteal and sciatic arteries, which anastomose writh the circumflex and perforating branches of the profunda, and also with the articular branches of the popliteal. When the femoral artery below the profunda (superficial femoral) is tied, the circulation is carried on directly through the branches of the profunda, which anastomose "with the anastomotica magna and the branches of the popliteal, in addition to those anastomoses given above. Branches (Fig. 45).—The small (1) superficial epigastric; (2) superficial circumflex iliac; and” (3) superior external pudic, have been already examined. A larger branch (4) the inferior external pudic, arises ffffm the upper part of the artery and passes beneath the fascia lata to the scrotum or labium and perinamm. The largest branch, (5) the profunda artery, arises from one to two inches below Poupart’s ligament and is now seen lying first to the outer side of, and then behind, the femoral artery and vein, and rest- ing upon the pectineus. It is the great artery to the muscles of the thigh, and will be afterwards dissected. The Femoral vein at the lower part of Scarpa’s triangle lies a little to the outer side of the artery. It then ascends behind it, and after being joined by the profunda vein, lies to the inner side of the femoral artery at the upper part of the space, where it receives the saphena vein and the veins corresponding to the four small branches of the artery. The Anterior Crural Nerve (Fig. 45, 5) is derived from the 2nd, 3rd, and 4tli nerves of the lumbar plexus, and enters Scarpa’s triangle beneath Poupart’s ligament, between the psoas and iliacus muscles. It divides into a superficial and deep part, the superficial giving off the middle and internal cutaneous nerves and supplying the sartorius ; the deep supplying muscular branches, and the long