201 TUNICA VAGINALIS TESTIS. The Spermatic Cord may now be examined, and will be found to consist of the vas deferens or duct of the testicle, together with the spermatic artery and veins, bound together with loose areolar tissue and covered more or less by the cremaster muscle. In a well-injected subject a small branch may be traced from the epigastric artery to the cord, which is the cremasteric artery ; and the genital branch of the genito-crural nerve may be found in the cremaster muscle, which it supplies. The position of the vas deferens at the back of the cord should be noticed, and may always be recognised by its feeling like a piece of whipcord. Upon the vas may be found a small branch of the vesical artery—the deferential artery. Tunica Vaginalis Testis (Fig. 102).—By drawing the testicle out of the scrotum and making an incision over the anterior part of it, the tunica vaginalis will be opened, and will be seen to consist of two parts, the tunica vaginalis propria upon the testis, and the reflexa or part around. The tunica vaginalis propria converts the subjacent tunica albuginea into a fibro-serous membrane, the other examples of which are the pericardium and the dura-mater. The Penis should now be examined, and the student may advantageously practise the operation of circumcision. It should be noticed that the skin becomes continuous with the mucous membrane at the margin of the fore-skin or prepuce, which is lined by the membrane continued from the glans penis. Below the orifice of the urethra will be found the fold called the frcenum pravputii, and around the base of the glans penis is a circular ridge, the corona glandis, upon which open a number of sebaceous glands, the glandules odoriferce, that secrete the smegma preeputii. An incision is to be carried along the upper surface of the penis, when there will be found the dorsal vein with the dorsal artery and nerve on each side of it, the nerve being most external. The artery and nerve are the terminations of the pudic artery and nerve, and the vein passes through the triangular ligament to open into the prostatic plexus. The Suspensory Ligament of the penis is a triangular piece of strong fibrous tissue, attached to the front of the symphysis pubis and to the upper surface of the penis, where it is divided into two layers to give passage to the dorsal vessels and nerves. [Returning to the abdominal wall the dissector will find the rectus muscle close to the median line and still enclosed in its sheath, through which it is indistinctly visible. The line between the recti is known as the linea alba, that at the outer border of each