495 THE NINTH NERVE. facial being anterior and the auditory posterior; and between the two is a minute nerve, which has been named pars intermedia and joins the facial nerve. The portio dura (17) is round, and smaller than the portio mollis ; it arises from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata close to the pons, and slightly from the pons itself The deep origin can be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The portio mollis (19) is flattened and very soft, owing to the absence of neurilemma. It arises from the floor of the fourth ventricle and from the restiform body, around which it winds to join the facial nerve. The deep origin of the nerve is partly from the auditory nucleus in the floor of the fourth ventricle, and partly from the posterior pyramid of the medulla. The Eighth Nerve (Fig. 253) consists of three portions, the Glosso-pharyngeal nerve, the Pneumo-gastric nerve, and the Spinal- accessory nerve, which lie in that order from before backwards. The Glosso-pharyngeal nerve (21) is the smallest of the three nerves, and arises from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata by three or four fibrilhe. The Pneumo-gastric or Vagus nerve (23) arises from the lateral tract below the glosso-pharyngeal, by a number of fibrillce which unite to form a single nerve. This lies parallel to the glosso-pha- ryngeal nerve and upon (in this view) a small lobe of the cerebellum, which has therefore been called the lobe of the pneumo-gastric or flocculus. The Spinal-accessory nerve (25) arises partly from the medulla and partly from the spinal cord. The upper part (accessory to vagus) arises by fine fibrilhe, below the origin of the pneumo-gastric, for the whole length of the medulla. The spinal portion (Fig. 251, 9) arises by fine fibrilhe from the side of the spinal cord, between the ligamen- tum denticulatum and the posterior roots of the spinal nerves, as low as the sixth cervical nerve. The deep origins of the eighth pair may be traced to special nuclei in the floor of the fourth ventricle. The spinal fibres are connected with the grey matter of the spinal cord. The Ninth or Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 253, 27) arises by numerous fib rill re from the groove between the anterior pyramid and the olivary body. The nerve consists of two bundles which pierce the dura mater separately. The deep fibres may be traced to a special nucleus at the lower part of the fourth ventricle. [By slicing down the pons Yarolii the arrangement of its trans-