154 LIGAMENTS OF THE LEG. The Posterior Crucial Ligament (Fig. 81, 3) is broader and stouter than the anterior. It is attached to the internal condyle at its anterior and outer part, and passes nearly vertically to the poste- rior margin of the top of the tibia and popliteal notch, being closely connected with the posterior extremity of the internal semilunar cartilage. The crucial ligaments would alternately check extreme flexion and extension, the anterior ligament becoming tightened when the knee joint is extended, and the posterior when the knee is flexed. If the lateral ligaments are now divided, it will be found that the femur and tibia become more separated than before, showing that the object of the crucial ligaments is not simply to maintain the articular surfaces in apposition. It will also be seen that whilst rotation of the tibia outwards can now be carried to an extreme degree (so as to bring the crucial ligaments almost parallel), rotation inwards is im- mediately checked by the crossing of the ligaments, and it is thus that the tendency of the popliteus muscle to rotate the leg inwards is counterbalanced. The Transverse Ligament (Fig. 81, 4) is a small band connect- ing the anterior extremities of the semilunar cartilages, and often not distinct. The Semilunar Cartilages (Fig. 81) can be partly seen now, but will be fully exposed by dividing the crucial ligaments. They are fibro-cartilages which are thicker at the outer than at the inner mar- gins, and which serve to deepen the condyloid cavities on the top of the tibia, being attached to the margin of the bone by short fibres called the coronary ligaments. The extremities of each cartilage are fixed respectively in front of and behind the spine of the tibia, by short strong bands of fibrous tissue. The Internal Semilunar Cartilage (Fig. 81, 6) is oval in form and embraces the extremities of the external cartilage. Its anterior extremity is attached to the tibia in front of the anterior crucial liga- ment, the posterior extremity is attached in front of the posterior crucial ligament. The External Semilunar Cartilage (Fig. 81, 7) is nearly circu- lar ; its anterior extremity is attached to the tibia immediately in front of the spine, and is connected with the insertion of the anterior crucial ligament. Its posterior extremity is attached to the back of the spine of the tibia, and is connected with the posterior crucial liga- ment by a distinct slip. The tendon of the popliteus is connected with the side of the