BACK OF THE UPPER ARM. 34 The Subscapular Artery is still to be seen along the lower border of the scapula, and its branches should be thoroughly followed out. The Infrascapular Artery is derived from the dorsal branch of the subscapular artery. It passes beneath the subscapularis muscle, which must be divided to expose it, and anastomoses with the neigh- bouring vessels. The Posterior Scapular Artery is to be found between the serratus magnus and the rhomboidei, and its anastomoses should be defined. By removing the muscular fibres from both surfaces of the scapula a very abundant network of vessels will be seen, formed by anasto- mosing branches from the arteries which have been already traced to the scapula : viz., the subscapular with its dorsal branch [axillary], the suprascapular [thyroid axis], and the posterior scapular [thyroid axis or subclavian]. The Back of the Arm. [The fore-arm and hand are to be doubled under the upper arm, which is to be placed on the table with the back upwards, and the scapula is to be drawn down with hooks so as to put the triceps on the stretch.] While the skin is being removed from the back of the arm two external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral nerve should be noticed. The upper smaller nerve (Fig. 5, 7) appears about the middle of the outer side of the arm, and runs downwards and forwards along the cephalic vein to the upper part of the fore-arm; the lower branch, of larger size (Fig. 11, 6), appears close above the external condyle, and will be afterwards traced down the back of the fore-arm to the wrrist. Branches from the internal cutaneous and lesser internal cutaneous nerves will be found on the inner side of the limb and distributed over the olecranon. When the strong deep fascia of the arm has been divided, the fibres of the triceps muscle should be cleaned, and a large bursa between the triangular posterior surface of the ulna and the skin should be noticed. The Triceps Muscle (Fig. 11, n) has of course three heads—the long or middle, the external, and the internal. The long head arises from a somewhat triangular rough surface on the inferior border of the scapula, immediately below the glenoid cavity. It has been already partly examined both from the front and from behind in relation with certain spaces (p. 30), and its fibres are now seen to be