SPLENIC ARTERY. 217 The Gceliac Axis. [The intestines are now to he replaced, and the liver fastened up to the ribs, either with hooks or, better, by a few stitches : the stomach being drawn down, the lesser omentum is then to be carefully removed.] Between the layers of the lesser omentum will be found three important structures, and in the following positions (Fig. 113). To the right and most in front is the bile-duct (7), to the left the hepatic artery (5), and behind and between the two the large vena portse (9). Behind the lesser omentum in the middle line will be found the short trunk of the Coeliac Axis and its branches, viz., the gastric (coronaria ventriculi), the hepatic, and the splenic arteries. The Gastric Artery (Fig. 112, 12), the smallest of the three, passes along the lesser curvature of the stomach from left to right, giving branches to both surfaces of that organ and to the oesophagus ; it anastomoses at the pylorus with the pyloric branch of the hepatic artery. Branches of the sympathetic (gastric plexus) may be traced upon it. Its accompanying vein opens into the vena portae. The opportunity may be taken to notice the distribution of the pneumo-gastric nerves to the stomach. The left pneumo-gastrie gives numerous branches to the front of the stomach and the right to the back of the viscus, and these can be generally seen through the peritoneal coat without further dissection. The Hepatic Artery (Fig. 112, 1) passes upwards and to the right side (thus forming the inferior and anterior boundaries of the foramen of Winslow'), and will be seen to divide into the right and left hepatic branches, which enter the transverse fissure of the liver. The artery gives off the 'pyloric branch (3) which has been seen to anastomose wuth the gastric, and a trunk which immediately disappears behind the duodenum and is called the gastro-duodenal (13). From the right hepatic branch the small cystic (7) artery is given off, which is distributed to the gall-bladder by two branches, one passing between it and the liver and the other along its free surface. The Splenic Artery (Fig. 112, 20) can now be seen only in part, taking a tortuous course behind the stomach and along the upper border of the pancreas to the spleen. [To continue the dissection it wall be necessary to remove the intestines which have been examined, by putting a couple of ligatures upon the upper part of the jejunum, and also upon the