78 LIGAMENTS OF THE ABM. wrist are due to the actions of the flexors and extensors of the carpus and phalanges. [The synovial membranes of the wrist are to he opened by the following incisions on the dorsal aspect of the hand; one between the lower ends of the radius and ulna (care being taken not to divide the fibro-cartilage), and three transverse incisions carried between the lower end of the radius and the carpus, the two rows of carpal bones, and the carpus and metacarpus respectively. The articulations of the pisiform bone and of the first metacarpal hone are also to be opened.] The Synovial Membranes of the Wrist (Fig. 36) are five in number. The 1st or membrana sacciformis is between the lower ends- of the radius and ulna, and extends between the ulna and the triangular fibro-cartilage ; the 2nd is between the radius and the under surface of the triangular fibro-cartilage above, and the three outer bones of the first row of the carpus below ; the 3rd is between the first and second rows of carpal bones, passing between the several bones as well; it is prolonged between the bones of the second row to the metacarpal bones, and is reflected over the bases of the four inner bones as well as between them; the 4th is between the cuneiform and pisi- form bones ; the 5th between the tra- pezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. The Triangular fibro-cartilage (Fig. 37, 3) is best seen by removing the carpus altogether. It is attached by its base to the margin of the radius, between the surfaces for articulation with the ulna and the carpus, and passes transversely between the lower end of the ulna and the carpus, to be attached by its apex to the root of the styloid pro- cess of the ulna. The Metacarpus and Phalanges (Fig. 35) are connected by anterior, posterior, and lateral ligaments. The Anterior ligaments are strong fibro-cartilaginous bands passing Fife. 37. Fig 37.—Lower end of radius and ulna with triangular fibro-cartilage (from lYilson). 1. Badius. 4. Articular surface of radius. 2. Ulna. 5. Membrana sacciformis. 3. Interarticular fibro-cartilage.