THE PLANTAR AKTEKIES. 135 the flexor brevis digitorum ; from the plantar fascia and septum ; and is attached to the subjacent ligamentous structures of the foot as far forward as the fifth metatarsal bone. Its tendon is inserted into the outer side of the base of the first phalanx of the little toe * The actions of the superficial muscles of the foot are sufficiently- indicated by their names, but it should be remarked that abduction and adduction are from and to the median plane of the foot and not of the body. The flexor brevis digitorum and abductor pollicis are supplied by the internal plantar nerve ; the abductor minimi digiti by the external plantar nerve. [To bring the deeper parts into view, the best way will be to remove with the saw a thin slice of the os calcis, including the attach- ments of the superficial muscles, when, if the attachment of the abductor pollicis to the internal annular ligament be divided, they can be turned forwards, and the plantar nerves and vessels will be seen.] The Plantar Arteries (Fig. 68) internal and external, are the terminal brandies of the posterior tibial, and enter the foot beneath the abductor pollicis in close relation with the plantar nerves. The internal plantar artery, which is the smaller of the two, is accompanied by the large internal plantar nerve, the large external plantar artery going with the smaller external nerve. The Internal plantar artery (6) is usually of small size, and runs forward to the great toe, where it gives digital arteries to the great and one side of the second toe, and anastomoses with the dorsal artery of the foot. If well-injected it may sometimes be traced with the nerve to the third interosseous space, giving muscular branches and digital branches to the three inner toes. Two vence comites accompany it. The External plantar artery (7) runs obliquely outwards across the foot between the flexor brevis digitorum and the accessorius muscle, and turning round the outer border of the latter muscle, takes a deep course inwards towards the great toe, where it will be subse- quently traced. It is accompanied by the external plantar nerve, which also gives a deep branch across the foot, and by vence comites; and supplies the adjacent muscles, giving a branch to the outer side of the foot to anastomose with the peroneal artery. The Plantar Nerves (Fig. 69) internal and external, are the * Mr. John Wood has described an abductor ossts metatarsi quinti, which is occasionally found beneath the abductor and attached to the base of the fifth metatarsal bone.