THE THORAX. 43G immediately below the arch of the aorta, and gives branches to the front and back of the heart, which are seldom seen. To it may be traced the left superficial cardiac nerve of the sympathetic, a cardiac branch from the left pneumogastric, and branches from the deep cardiac plexus. The Great Vessels of the Heart (Fig. 226) have the following positions. The vena cava superior is to the right, and the pulmo- nary artery to the left, whilst between them the arch of the aorta is seen. The inferior vena cava can be seen piercing the diapliragm at the back of the heart, by dr awing the organ upwards. The Cavities of the heart are to be opened in situ, and in the order in which the blood enters them. [The right auricle is to be opened by one incision from the superior to the inferior vena cava, and another at right angles to it into the auricular appendage.] Right Auricle (Fig. 228, i).—The main cavity of the auricle is smooth internally, but in the appendix are the musculi pectinati, or muscular bands “ resembling a comb.” 'flu; endocardium, or lining membrane of the heart, is seen to be continuous with the lining membrane of the veins, and will be traced subsequently into the arteries. The large openings into the right auricle are (1) the superior vena cava (3), which enters at the upper • and anterior part; (2) the inferior vena cava (4), which enters at the lower and back part; and (3) the coronary sinus (7), which enters close above (4) the auriculo- ventricular opening (9) and below the Eustachian valve. The foramina Thebesii are numerous small openings which are found in the wall of the auricle, corresponding to the anterior car- diac veins and the vense cordis minim se. The tubercle of Lower is a projection which is occasionally found in the wall of the auricle, between the superior and inferior vense cavse. The coronary valve (8) (valve of Tliebesius) is a thin fold at the orifice of the coronary sinus, which serves to prevent regurgitation into it. The Eustachian valve (6) is a semilunar fold placed to the left of the vena cava inferior, and extending between it and the annulus ovalis immediately above the opening of the coronary sinus, which served in the foetus to direct the current of blood from the inferior vena cava through the foramen ovale. In the adult it is generally cribriform and often very imperfect.