PARTS BEHIND THE INNER MALLEOLUS. 131 Fig. 65. taken of them in this part of their course, as their relations are important. A portion of the skin on the inner side of the heel and sole of the foot is to he reflected if necessary, so as to expose the whole breadth of the internal annular ligament, which stretches from the inner malleolus to the os calcis and gives origin by its lower border to one head of the abductor pollicis. The divisions in the annular ligament are four in number, and are occupied as follows, beginning from the tibia. In the first division is the tibialis posticus ; in the second the tendon of the flexor longus digitorum; in the third the posterior tibial vessels and nerve, though this nerve is generally divided; and in the fourth the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis,* but this last lies so deeply in order to pass in the grooves in the astragalus and os calcis that it is not readily seen from the side. Each of the tendons is lubricated by a distinct synovial membrane (Fig. 65). The Sole of the Foot. [The foot being raised on a block so that the sole may be fully exposed, an incision is to be made down its centre from the heel to the bases of the toes, the knife being carried at once down to the glistening plantar fascia through the thick lobulated fat which is always found beneath the skin in this region. A transverse incision at the roots of the toes will allow the skin and fat to be reflected to each side, which may be readily accomplished if the knife is kept close to the fascia and parallel to its fibres. Near the toes care must be taken of the divisions of the plantar fascia and of the digital nerves which appear between them ; but no attempt need be made to trace out * Artificial Memory ; Timothy Does Vex All Very Nervous Pupils (tibialis, digitorum, vein, artery, vein, nerve, pollicis). Fig. 65.—Section of the right ankle (drawn by Gr. E. L. Pearse). 1. Extensor longus digitorum and peroneus tertius. 2. Peroneus longus. 3. Extensor proprius pollicis. 4. Peroneus brevis. 5. Anterior tibial vessels and nerve. 6. Flexor longus pollicis. 7. Tibialis antic us. 8. Tendo Achillis. 9. Tibialis posticus. 10. Plantaris. 11. Flexor longus digitorum. 12. Posterior tibial vessels and nerve. K 2