THE POPLITEAL SPACE. 116 saphenous nerve, and articular branches, one of which winds to the front of the joint with the recurrent anterior tibial artery. The Popliteal Artery (Fig. 55, 5) is the continuation of the femoral artery, and extends from the opening in the adductor magnus to the lower border of the popliteus muscle, where it divides into anterior and posterior tibials. It lies at the bottom of the popliteal space, resting upon the back of the femur, the posterior ligament of the knee, and the popliteus muscle; and has a direction from the inner side of the femur to the middle of the leg. Its vein lies super- ficially in its whole course, but first to its outer side and afterwards to its inner side, whilst the internal popliteal nerve is still more superficial, and also crosses the artery from without inwards. The commencement of the popliteal artery is under cover of the semi- membranosus, the middle of the vessel is in the hollow of the 'ham, uncovered by muscles, and its lower part is beneath the gastrocnemius and plantaris muscles. A branch of the obturator nerve may be found on the upper part of the artery, and traced to the back of the knee. The Branches (Figs. 54 and 55) of the popliteal artery are muscular (both to the hamstrings and muscles of the calf) and articular. 1. The Superior muscular branches arise from the upper part of the artery', and are distributed to the adjacent hamstring muscles. 2. The Articular branches are five in number, viz., two superior, two inferior, and one azygos. The superior arteries, internal and external, arise just above the condyles of the lemur, around which bone they wind to the front of the knee-joint, to supply it and to anastomose with the anastomotica magna and the descending branch of the profunda respectively. The inferior articular arteries arise on the popliteus, and do not correspond on the two sides of the limb. The internal (the lower of the two) winds below the inner tuberosity of the tibia and beneath the internal lateral ligament ; the external passes altogether above the head of the fibula but beneath the external lateral ligament, to the front of the joint. The azygos arises about the middle of the artery and pierces the posterior ligament to join the other branches. 3. The Inferior muscular branches (sural) are distributed to the muscles of the calf. Surgery.—The popliteal artery may be readily compressed by the hand or a tourniquet. The operation of tying the popliteal artery for aneurism is never performed, but it might be necessary to reach the vessel if wounded ; in which case an incision to the inner side of the space would enable the operator to reach the middle of the artery without injury to the nerves.