387 THE GLOSSO-PHARYNGEAL NERVE. 'behind) the internal carotid artery to the pharynx, where it assists in forming the pharyngeal plexus upon the middle constrictor muscle (Fig. 204, 21). 2. The superior laryngeal nerve (16), which takes an oblique course behind the internal carotid to the larynx, where it has been already seen to give off the external laryngeal branch, and then to pierce the thyro-hyoid membrane (Fig. 204, 22). The Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve (Fig. 203, 2) lies in a little special notch in the lower border of the petrous bone as it leaves the jugular foramen, being thus isolated from the remainder of the eighth nerve. It then passes forward over the internal carotid artery, and reaches the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, at the lower border of which it has already been seen in the submaxillary region, and has been traced to the tongue (p. 376). It presents two small ganglia, one at the upper part of the foramen, the superior or jugular ganglion, which is of very small size, and the other at the lower part of the foramen, which is larger, and is called the inferior or petrous ganglion or ganglion of Andersch (Fig. 204, 2). The upper ganglion involves only some of the fibres of the nerve, but they all pass through the lower ganglion. The lower ganglion has branches of communication with the pneumo-gas trie nerve, one going to its superior ganglion, and another to the auricular nerve ; also with the superior ganglion of the sym- pathetic ; and with the facial nerve by a branch which pierces the posterior belly of the digastric (Fig. 204, 25). The glosso-pharyngeal nerve gives off the following branches in its course to the tongue :— 1. Carotid branches, which join the sympathetic plexus on that vessel, and communicate with the pharyngeal branch of the pneumo-gastric. 2. Muscular branches to the stylo-pharyngeus. 6. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 7. Loop between 1st and 2nd cervical nerves. 8. Carotid branch of sympathetic. 9. Tympanic nerve (Jacobson). 10. Its branch to carotid plexus. 11. Its branch to Eustachian tube. 12. Its branch to fenestra ovalis. 13. Its branch to fenestra rotunda. 14. Its union with small superficial petrosal nerve. 15. Its union with large superficial petrosal nerve. 16. Otic ganglion. 17. Auricular nerve of pneumo-gastric. 18. Junction of pneumo-gastric with spinal accessory. 19. Junction of 9th nerve and 1st cervical nerve. 20. Juuction of mastoid branch of spinal-accessory and 2nd cer- vical nerve. 21. Tharyngeal plexus. 22. Superior laryngeal nerve. 23. xternal laryngeal nerve. 24. Middle cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 25. Junction of digastric nerve (7th) with glosso-pharyngeal. c c 2