THE SUPERIOR CONSTRICTOR. 377 of the pharynx with the ascending pharyngeal artery lying upon it.] The Ascending Pharyngeal Artery (Fig. 203, 9) can now he traced from the external carotid artery near its origin, and lies between the internal carotid and the pharynx. It gives branches to the prever- tebral muscles, anastomosing with the ascending cervical artery, and near the base of the skull divides into pharyngeal and meningeal branches. The meningeal branches are very small and enter the skull by the foramen lacerum medium and the foramen jugulare, to supply the dura mater. The pharyngeal branches supply the pharynx, and turn over the upper border of the superior constrictor to supply the palate. A palatine branch also accompanies the tendon of the tensor palati muscle. The Tensor Palati (Fig. 207, 6) is now seen in part, and will be more fully exposed by cutting away the external pterygoid plate with bone-forceps. Its vertical fibres covering the internal pterygoid plate arise from the scaphoid fossa at the root of the internal plate, and slightly from the under surface of the wing of the sphenoid and the outer surface of the Eustachian tube. The tendon winds round the hamular process to its insertion into the palate ; but this is obscured at present by the attachment of the fibres of the superior constrictor to the internal pterygoid plate. The Superior Constrictor of the Pharynx (Fig. 201, 1) is now seen arising from the lower third of the internal pterygoid plate, and from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone ; from the pterygo- maxillary ligament opposite the attachment of the buccinator ; from the inner surface of the lower jaw above the posterior extremity of the mylo-liyoid ridge, and slightly from the side of the tongue. The fibres curve backwards, leaving an interval between the muscle and the base of the skull in which the fibrous bag of the pharynx is visible, to be inserted in the median raplie. [In order to complete a side-view of the Internal Carotid, Jugular Vein, and Eighth nerve it will be necessary to remove the remains of the digastric and stylo-liyoid muscles, and the external carotid artery, cutting it above the origin of the ascending pharyngeal branch. The stylo-glossus, which has been already dissected, will now be thoroughly exposed and should be carefully removed, when the Glosso-pharyngeal nerve lying upon the stylo-pharyngeus will be seen].