336 SIDE OF THE NECK. smaller duct (right lymphatic duct) may be found on the right side of the body. [The inner end of the clavicle having been removed with the sterno-mastoid, a little dissection close above the sternum will readily expose the scalenus anticus muscle attached to the first rib, and having the phrenic nerve lying upon it and branches of the thyroid axis crossing it. The pneumo-gastric if traced down will be found to cross the first part of the subclavian artery, which with its branches is to be defined. The sympathetic and the thoracic duct on the left side are to be carefully preserved.] The Subclavian Arteries differ on the two sides, the right beginning at the sterno-clavicular articulation, and the left at the arch of the aorta, and having therefore a course in the thorax. Both arteries may be divided into three parts, of which the second and third correspond precisely on the two sides of the body, and the cervical portion of the first part of the left nearly with the first part on the right side. The first •part on the right side extends from the bifurcation of the innominate artery at the stemo-clavicular articulation to the inner border of the scalenus anticus. Its course is obliquely upwards and outwards, and it has in front of it the inner end of the clavicle with the sterno-mastoid, sterno-liyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles ; being crossed by the pneiuno-gastric, cardiac, and phrenic nerves, and the internal jugular and vertebral veins. It lies against the recurrent laryngeal nerve and the apex of the pleura, which intervenes between it and the neck of the first rib and also invests its lower border. The innominate vein is in front of, but quite below the level of, this part of the artery. The first part on the left side extends from the arch of the aorta to the inner border of the scalenus anticus, and may be conveniently subdivided into a thoracic and a cervical portion. The cervical por- tion is curved or nearly horizontal, and has in front of it the sterno- mastoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno-thyroid muscles, and the inner end of the clavicle ; being crossed by the internal jugular and vertebral veins, and by the phrenic nerve close to the scalenus. It lies against the apex of the pleura, which intervenes between it and the neck of the first rib, and also closely invests the artery below. The Branches of the first part of the subclavian artery are (1) Vertebral, (2) Internal Mammary, and (3) Thyroid Axis, and their distribution is the same on both sides of the body. The Superior Intercostal artery arises to the inner border of the scalenus on the