INTRODUCTION. 2 Great variety exists in dissecting cases, both as to form and expense, but so long as the instruments themselves are strong and good, the simpler the case the better. SCALPELS for dissection are made of two principal shapes ; in one, the edge is bevelled to the point, the back being straight; in the other, both back and edge are bevelled to a point midway be- tween the two. The latter form is preferable for most purposes. The blade should not be more than an inch and a half long, and never double-edged, but the material of which the handle is con- structed is a matter of indifference. For all ordinary dissection it will be found most convenient to hold the scalpel like a pen ; but for cleaning the fascia off muscles, and following out small nerves, it is better to hold it reversed, so that the back of the knife may be against the tissue wliich is to be preserved. In making the first incision through the skin of a limb, or in any other position where a long incision is required, the knife may, with advantage, be held under the hand, by which the wrist has more play, and the student has the opportunity of practising a mode of holding the knife which he will find very useful when operating on the living body. The FORCEPS should be broad at the extremities and coarsely serrated, so that it may retain a firm hold on small portions of tissue. It is very important that the forceps should not be too strong in the spring, for in that case it becomes so fatiguing to the hand that it is impossible to continue its use for any length of time. The forceps should be held lightly between the thumb and the first and second fingers of the left hand, which may be steadied by resting the little finger on a neighbouring part. The CHAIN HOOKS should be strong, and bent in the direction of the thickness and not of the breadth of the steel, as is sometimes done. These latter are very inferior, being liable to be unbent under any considerable strain. Care should be taken that the chains are firmly linked, and that the central ring is sufficiently stout to bear any force that may be applied to it. The SCISSORS should be large and strong, and it will be found to be advantageous to have one curved pair, which is very useful in preparing the ligaments. Sounds and staffs will be required for the purpose of practising the introduction of instruments into the bladder ; but these’ are found in most dissecting-rooms, together with saws and other large tools requisite for dissection. The student will do well to bear in mind that he will probably be called upon in after-life to operate on the living body, the only true preparation for which is careful dissection ; he should therefore, as