46 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. flexor sublimis and flexor carpi ulnaris to the back of the prominent internal condyle, where, after passing between the heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, it runs in the groove occupied by the ulnar nerve, and anastomoses with the inferior profunda and anastomotic arteries. 3. The Interosseous artery is a short trunk arising about two inches from the commencement of the artery, which is directed backwards to the interosseous space, where it subdivides into anterior and pos- terior interosseous branches. The 'posterior interosseous passes between the radius and ulna to the back of the arm, where it will be dissected. The anterior interosseous is to be followed down the front of the interosseous membrane, where it will be found lying with a branch of the median nerve between the flexor longus pollicis and flexor profundus digitorum, until it disappears beneath the pronator quadratus to reach the back of the wrist. The anterior interosseous artery gives off numerous muscular branches; a median branch to accompany the median nerve (sometimes of large size) ; and two nutritious arteries to the radius and ulna, which are directed towards the elbow. 4. The Carpal arteries, anterior and posterior, supply the front and back of the carpus, and anastomose with corresponding branches from the radial.* The Median Nerve (Figs. 15 and 17) enters the fore-arm between the heads of the pronator teres, and then passing between the origins of the flexor sublimis digitorum, crosses the ulnar artery to lie between the flexor sublimis and flexor profundus muscles. It is placed superficially between the flexor tendons near the wrist, and passes with them beneath the annular ligament into the hand. Branches.—The median nerve supplies all the muscles of the front of the fore-arm except the flexor carpi ulnaris and half the flexor profundus, in the following manner As soon as it enters the fore-arm it gives branches to the pronator teres, flexor carpi radialis, flexor sublimis digitorum, and palmaris longus, and, after crossing the ulnar artery, gives off the anterior interosseous nerve (Fig. 17, 25). This passes down the front of the interosseous membrane, giving branches to the flexor longus pollicis and the outer half of the profundus digitorum, and then beneath the pronator quadratus (which it supplies) to the front of the wrist-joint, where it gives a branch to the articulation. * Professor Ellis enumerates a metacarpal branch, which is usually the con- tinuation of the posterior carpal artery to the back of the 5th metacarpal bone, as will be seen in the dissection of the back of the hand.