SIDE OF THE NECK. 340 anticus and phrenic nerve immediately behind the clavicle, and has been seen in the posterior triangle of the neck. It passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula to supply the dorsum (p. 32). The suprascapular vein opens into the external jugular. The Second Part of the Subclavian Artery (Fig. 179, 27) is placed behind the scalenus anticus, and has the same relations on both sides of the body. It has in front of it the platysma and cervical fascia, with the clavicular origin of the sterno-mastoid and the scalenus anticus ; and rests against the scalenus medius and the first dorsal nerve. Above it are the lower cervical nerves ; and below is the pleura with a small portion of the inner border of the first rib * The sub- clavian vein is quite below the level of the artery at this point, and separated by the scalenus anticus. The only branch of the second part of the subclavian artery is the superior intercostal artery, which arises usually to the inner side of the anterior scalenus on the left side, and is to be traced into the thorax by removing the pleura from the upper intercostal spaces on both sides. The superior intercostal artery (Fig. 178,11) descends into the thorax in front of the necks of the ribs, giving branches to the first and second intercostal spaces, and anastomosing with the upper intercostal artery from the aorta. The branches to the intercostal spaces divide into anterior and posterior branches, and are distributed like the aortic intercostals. The deep cervical branch arises from the superior inter- costal close to its origin, and passes backwards between the first rib and the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra, to be distributed to the muscles of the back. * The phrenic nerve is commonly given as one of the anterior relations of this part of the artery, but it reaches the inner border of the scalenus above the vessel, and is in relation with the first part of the subclavian. 7. Sterno-mastoid (cut). 8. Facial artery. 9. Hypoglossal nerve with communi- cation from 2nd cervical nerve. 10. Lower end of ditto. 11. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 12. Digastric. 13. Third cervical nerve. 14. Superior laryngeal nerve. 15. Internal carotid. 16. Thyro-hyoid. 17. External carotid. 18. Common carotid. 19. Fourth cervical nerve. 20. Inferior constrictor of pharynx. 21. Phrenic nerve on scalenus anticus. 22. Crico-thyroid. 23. Middle cervical ganglion. 24. Trachea. 25. Thyroid axis. 26. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 27. Subclavian artery. 28. Innominate artery. 29. Oesophagus. 30. Vena cava superior (cut). 31. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. 32. Posterior pulmonary plexus. 33. Phrenic nerve (cut). 35. ffisophageal plexus. 37. Vena azygos major. 39. Thoracic duct. 41. Thoracic aorta. 43. Great splanchnic nerve.