22 G DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. tlie several vessels. The greater part of this may be removed, but the great splanchnic nerves should be traced to their termination in the semilunar ganglia, situated on each side of the aorta close to the dia- phragm, and closely resembling lymphatic glands in appearance; and the gangliated cord of the sympathetic on each side of the vertebrae is to be preserved. The vena cava inferior (a piece of which it will be remembered has been removed with the liver) is to be cleaned, and care must be taken not to cut off the right spermatic vein on its an- terior surface. The vein may be secured in its proper position with a pin if necessary. The kidneys and supra-renal capsules are to be dissected out and the vessels going to each defined, and the spermatic vessels should be traced out.] The Abdominal Aorta (Fig. 116) is the direct continuation of the thoracic aorta, and reaches from the last dorsal vertebra to the left side of the fourth lumbar vertebra, where it divides into the two com- mon iliacs. It was covered originally and quite superficially by the stomach, transverse colon, and small intestines; and was crossed more closely (from above downwards) by the pancreas and splenic vein, be- tween the cceliac axis and superior mesenteric artery; by the duode- num, immediately below the mesenteric artery; and by the left renal vein. Immediately below the renal vein the spermatic arteries lie in front of the aorta for a short distance, and lower down is the inferior mesenteric artery, from which the peritoneum was reflected over the aorta to the bifurcation. The artery lies against the bodies of the vertebra; and the anterior common ligament, and crosses the left lumbar veins. To its right is the vena cava, in close connection below but separated at the upper part by the right crus of the diaphragm, and deeply placed between the upper part of the aorta and the right crus is the receptaculum chvli, 'with the thoracic duct and the vena azygos major. To its left is the left gangliated cord of the sympathetic. Its point of bifurcation is a little below and to the left of the umbilicus, above which it may be readily compressed. Surgery (Fig. 1171.-—The abdominal aorta has been tied immedi- ately above the bifurcation for iliac aneurism, but without success. It may be reached by an incision prolonged above and below the tunbilicus, by which Sir Astley Cooper originally tied it, the perito- neum being necessarily opened in front, and again at the point of ligature ; or by an incision at the side similar to that for ligature of the common iliac artery, but larger, by which the peritoneum is turned forward and left unopened. Mr. Lane has proposed to apply the liga- ture above, instead of below, the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery, in order to preserve the anastomoses of that vessel.