14 THE AXILLA. it is placed deeply in the axilla, hut its lower portion has been already seen to be comparatively superficial. The artery is divided into three parts, viz., first, or that above the pectoralis minor; second, or that beneath the pectoralis minor; and third, or that below the pectoralis minor. First part (from the lower border of the first rib to the upper border of pectoralis minor) has in front the pectoralis major muscle and the costo-coracoid membrane, and is crossed by the cephalic and acromio-thoracic veins, and external anterior thoracic nerve ; behind, it has the first intercostal space, with a digitation of the serratus magnus and the posterior thoracic nerve (external respiratory of Bell); to its inner side is the axillary vein, and to the outer the large cords of the. brachial plexus. This part of the artery gives off two branches, the Superior Thoracic and Acromio-thoracic. Second part (beneath the pectoralis minor) has in front the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor ; behind, at a little distance, is the sub- scapularis, with the posterior cord of the brachial plexus ; to its inner side are the vein and the inner cord ; and] on the outer side the outer cord of the plexus. The branches of this part of the artery are the Long Thoracic and Alar Thoracic. Third part (from the lower border of the pectoralis minor to the lower border of teres major) has the pectoralis major in front except at the lowest portion, and is also embraced by the two heads of the median nerve, which itself lies for a short distance in front of the artery ; behind, it lies upon the lower part of the subscapularis, the tendon of the latissimus dorsi, and a small portion of the teres major muscle, together with the musculo-spiral and circumflex nerves ; to its inner side is the axillary vein, with the inner head of the median nerve (for a short distance), the ulnar, the internal cutaneous and lesser internal cutaneous (Wrisberg) nerves ; to the outer side is the coraco-brachialis. muscle, with the outer head of the median, at first, but lower down the entire nerve, and also the external cutaneous nerve, until it pierces the coraco-brachialis. The branches of this portion are the Subscapular, Anterior Circumflex, and Posterior Circumflex. Branches of the Axillary Artery (Pig. 3).*— 1. The superior thoracic (3) is a small branch supplying the side of the chest about the first and second ribs, and anastomosing with the intercostal arteries. * The branches of the Axillary Artery may be kept in mind by the word SALASAP ; thus :—Superior thoracic, Acromio-thoracic, Long thoracic, Alar thoracic, Subscapular, Anterior and Posterior circumflex.