100 INNER SIDE OF THE THIGH. from the middle cutaneous nerve, and the remaining branches can now be traced from the deep division. The nerve to the vastus internus (19) which arises close to the long saphenous nerve, is some- times (but badly) called the “ short saphenous nerve.” The nerve- to the pectineus (10) crosses transversely beneath the femoral vessels to the surface of the pectineus muscle, and gives a branch to the- front of the hip joint. The Internal Saphenous Nerve (Fig. 49, 22) is the longest branch of the deep division of the anterior crural nerve. It lies close to the outer side of the femoral artery, and enters Hunter’s canal with it; then crossing the artery it pierces the sheath, appear- ing beneath the sartorius at the inner side of the knee. I11 the thigh it gives a communicating branch to the subcutaneous plexus on the inner side, and at the knee its patellar branch pierces the sartorius. The nerve becomes cutaneous between the sartorius and gracilis, and runs down the inner side of the leg. Inner Side op the Thigh. [The superficial muscle of the inner side of the thigh (adductor longus) is already partially seen ; to expose the rest of the region, an incision is to be made along the rami of the pubes and ischium, and the skin is to be reflected, when the gracilis will be brought into view.] A few cutaneous branches of nerve to the skin of the inner side of the thigh will be found appearing below the adductor longus. They are derived from the obturator. The Adductor Longus (Fig. 47, 13) arises by a round tendon from the front of the os pubis immediately below the crest, and expands to be inserted into the middle third of the inner border of the linea aspera. It is supplied by the obturator nerve. The Gracilis (Fig. 49, 26) is the most internal of the muscles of the thigh, and arises by a broad thin tendon from the rami of the pubes and ischium close to the symphysis. It is a long riband-shaped muscle, and is inserted into the inner surface of the tibia beneath the sartorius, but higher than the semi-tendinosus, a bursa intervening between it and the internal lateral ligament of the knee. It is supplied by the obturator nerve. [The adductor longus is to be divided near its origin and turned down, in order to expose the adductor brevis and the insertions of the pectineus and the psoas and iliacus. The branch of the obturator nerve to the muscle is to be preserved, and the profunda vessels are to be cleaned as far as exposed, with the deep muscles,]