326 SIDE OF THE NECK. seen the sterno-hvoicl, the sternothyroid, and thyro-hyoid mnscles ; and the anterior belly of the omo-hyoid which runs obliquely across the triangle, dividing it into an upper and lower part. The common carotid artery comes into view between the sterno- mastoid and omo-hyoid muscles, with the descendens noni nerve superficial to it, and the internal jugular vein to its outer side and concealing the pneumo-gastric nerve. The external and internal carotids are seen at, or near, the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and are crossed superficially by the hypoglossal nerve; both cross the superior laryngeal nerve, which is seen passing to the larynx be- tween the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx, to the inner side of the carotid vessels. The superior thyroid, lingual, and facial arteries are seen in part in the anterior portion of the space ; and the occipital artery is seen turning backwards below the digastric, and in relation with the hypoglossal nerve. [It will be advisable to examine the ligaments of the inner end of the clavicle, before detaching it in order to reflect the stemo-mastoid muscle. The sternal origin of the sterno-mastoid must be cut, and any remains of the pectoralis major be removed, in order that the ligaments between the clavicle, sternum, and first rib, and also between the two clavicles, may be cleaned.] Sterno-Clavicular Articulation (Fig. 175). The Inter-clavicular ligament (2) is a strong band passing across the inter-clavicular notch of the sternum, and attached to that bone as well as to the inner extremi- ties of the two clavicles. The Sterno-clavicular liga- ment (1) may be considered to form a capsule to the joint, or may be divided into an- terior and posterior ligaments. The fibres pass obliquely from the inner extremity of the cla- vicle to the margin of the arti- cular surface of the sternum. Fig. 175. Fig. 175.—Ligaments of the sterno-clavicular and eosto-sternal articulations (from Wilson). 1. Anterior sterno-clavicular ligament. 2. Inter-clavicular ligament. 3. Costo-clavicular or rhomboid liga- ment ; seen on both sides. 4. Inter - articular fibro - cartilage-, brought into view by the re- moval of the anterior and posterior ligaments. 5. Anterior costo-sternal ligaments of the first and second ribs.