LIGAMENTS OF THE ARM. 72 are antagonistic in the fact that the pectoralis major draws the arm across the chest after rotating it, whilst the latissimus dorsi draws it behind the hack. The Capsular Ligament (Fig. 30, 5) is seen to be loose, allowing partial dislocation of the humerus now that all the muscles are divided, and rough, owing to the insertion of some of the muscles of the scapula into it. There is frequently an opening on its inner side, by which the bursa of the subscapularis communicates with the articular cavity. It is attached above to the outer margin of the glenoid cavity of the scapula, and below to the anatomical neck of the humerus, and is pierced at its lower margin by the long tendon of the biceps. It is thickened in front by a band of fibres attached to the root of the coracoid process and called the Coraco-humeral liga- ment. The tendon of the biceps is to be followed into the articulation by laying open the capsular liga- ment, when it will be found to be surrounded by a tube of synovial membrane, and having become flattened, to be attached to the glenoid ligament and upper part of the glenoid cavity. This tube can be demonstrated before the capsule is opened by making traction upon the ten- don, when the tube will be everted (Fig. 31). The Glenoid Ligament (Fig. 31,4) is a fibrous ring con- tinuous with the tendon of the biceps and surrounding the glenoid cavity, which it therefore deepens. There is a single Synovial Membrane in the shoulder joint, which is reflected over the articular surfaces and capsular ligament; it forms a tube around the tendon of the biceps which is prolonged into the bicipital groove. Fig. 31. Fig. 31.—Section through the shoulder-joint (from "Wilson). 1. The cut end of the clavicle. 2. Acromial end of clavicle. 3. Articular surface of the glenoid cavity covered with cartilage and synovial membrane. 4. Cross section of the glenoid liga- ment. 5. Lower part of capsule and synovial sac. 6. Synovial membrane prolonged on biceps tendon. 7. Tendon of biceps.