THE HEART. 433 above downwards on the right side the order is the reverse, viz. bronchus, artery, veins ; but on the left side it is artery, bronchus, veins. The reason of this difference is, that the left bronchus passes beneath the arch of the aorta, and therefore becomes lower than the pulmonary artery on that side. The right pulmonary vessels pass beneath the arch of the aorta.* The Lungs (Fig. 226) will vary very much in condition in diffe- rent bodies. If perfectly healthy their surfaces will be smooth, and they will be somewhat contracted, but crepitant throughout. Every variety of disease may be found, the most common being tubercle and abscess in the upper lobes, with adhesion to the wall of the thorax, or pneumonic condensation through more or less of the organ. The lungs of subjects dying in large cities not unfrequently present black pigment in the lung tissue and the lymphatic glands. Each lung has a thin anterior margin and a thicker posterior one, which lies against the spinal column, and is longer than the anterior border. The anterior margin of the left lung is notched so as to leave the apex of the heart uncovered. The outer surface of the lung is convex and the inner concave; about the middle of this latter surface, and near the posterior border is a slit, the hilum, at which the root of the lung enters, whilst in front of it is a hollow corresponding to the heart, and larger in the left lung than the right. The base of the lung is moulded to the diaphragm, and is, therefore, lower behind than in front; whilst the apex is rounded and reaches into the neck above the first rib, extending to a point an inch and a half above the clavicle. The right lung is the larger, owing to the direction of the heart to the left, but is shorter than the left, owing to the position of the liver. The left lung is divided into two lobes (upper and lower) by a fissure running oblicprely across the external surface, from near the apex to the anterior border ; but the right has three lobes, owing to the existence of a second fissure running hori- zontally forward, from the middle of the first fissure to the anterior margin of the lung. The Heart (Fig. 227) is placed obliquely between the lungs, the base being to the right, and the apex to the left side; and resting on the diaphragm, which is now convex (the position of expiration), it is nearly horizontal. The base corresponds to the interval between the 5th and 8th dorsal vertebrae, and the apex beats between the 5tli and 6th ribs, the larger portion of the organ being to the left of the * It may be noticed that the order of structures from before backwards in the root of the lung corresponds to the arrangement in the hilum of the kidney, viz. vein, artery, ureter. F F