THE CAVITY OF THE NOSE. 400 The Superior Meatus (b) is between the superior and middle tur- binate hones, and is the smallest of the three, extending for not more than one-third of the length of the outer wall. The posterior eth- moidal cells and the sphenoidal sinus open into this meatus, and the epheno-palatine foramen is immediately opposite to it. The Middle Meatus (g) is between the middle and inferior turbinate bones, and extends along the posterior two-thirds of the outer wall, curving upward3 anteriorly. The anterior eth- moidal cells, the frontal sinus (through the infundibulum of the ethmoid bone), and the antrum of Highmore open into the meatus. The Inferior Meatus (1c) is between the inferior turbinate bone and the floor of the nasal fossa. It extends the whole length of the fossa, and at the anterior part has the nasal duct opening into it. It should be noticed that the orifice of the Eustachian tube is close to the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinate bone, and that in using the Eustachian catheter, the point of the instrument has there- fore to be raised before it can enter the tube. The Mucous Membrane lining the nasal fossse is termed the pituitary Fig. 209.—The meatuses of the nose on the left side (from Wilson). 1. Frontal bone. 2. Nasal bone. 3. Crista galli of the ethmoid. 4. Cribriform plate of the ethmoid. 5. Part of the sphenoidal sinus. 6. Basilar portion of the sphenoid bone. 7. 7. Palatine process of the superior maxillary bone. 8. Nasal spine. 9. Palatine process of the palate bone. a. Superior turbinate bone. b. Superior meatus. e. A probe passed into the posterior ethmoidal cells. d. Opening of the sphenoidal sinus into the superior meatus. e. Spheno-palatine foramen. f. Middle turbinate bone. ff, (j. Middle meatus. h. A probe passed into the infundi- bulum leading from the frontal sinus and anterior ethmoidal cells; the triangular aperture immediately above the letter is the opening of the antrum. i. Inferior turbinate bone. k. k. Inferior meatus. l. l. A probe passed up the nasal duct. m. Internal pterygoid plate. n. Its hamular process. o. External pterygoid plate. p. Boot of the pterygoid process. q. Posterior palatine foramina.