449 THE DEEP CARDIAC PLEXUS. artery to join the opposite vein, the junction of the two forming the vena cava superior. It is closely invested by the right pleura, and has the phrenic nerve on its outer side. The Left Innominate Vein (Fig. 235) commencing at a corre- sponding point to and in the same way as the right vein, runs obliquely downwards and to the right side, lying just above the level of the arch of the aorta and crossing its large branches. It unites with the right innominate vein on the right of the sternum, between the cartilages of the first and second ribs, to form the vena cava superior (p. 446). Branches.—Each innominate vein receives the internal mammary, the inferior thyroid, and the superior intercostal branches. The left vein receives in addition small thymic and pericardiac branches. [The ascending portion of the arch of the aorta and the venae cavae are to be divided, and the remains of the heart removed with the pulmonary vessels, which are to be cut close to the lungs. The arch of the aorta is to be held to one side by hooks, and the bifurcation of the trachea with the deep cardiac plexus dissected out.] The Deep Cardiac Plexus (Fig. 233) is situated on each side of the trachea close to its bifurcation. The right half of the plexus receives'all the cardiac nerves of that side, viz., three cardiac nerves from the three cervical ganglia of the sympathetic, the three cardiac branches of the pneumo-gastric, and the cardiac branch of its recur- rent laryngeal nerve. The branches of this half of the plexus are distributed to the right side of the heart and the right lung, and many of them have been necessarily destroyed. The left half (Fig. 234) of the plexus receives the same nerves as the right, with the exception of the superior cardiac nerve of the sympathetic and the inferior cardiac branch of the pneumo-gastric, which have been 7. Stemo-mastoid (cut). 8. Facial artery. 9. Hypoglossal nerve with communi- cation from 2nd cervical nerve. 10. Lower end of ditto. 11. Superior cervical ganglion of sympathetic. 12. Digastric. 13. Third cervical nerve. 14. Superior laryngeal nerve. 15. Internal carotid. 16. Thyro-hyoid. 17. External carotid. .18. Common carotid. 19. Fourth cervical nerve. 20. Inferior constrictor of pharynx. 21. Phrenic nerve on scalenus anticus. 22. Crico-thyroid. 23. Middle cervical ganglion. 24. Trachea. 25. Thyroid axis. 26. Recurrent laryngeal nerve. 27. Subclavian artery. 28. Innominate artery. 29. CEsophagus. 30. Vena cava superior (cut). 31. Gangliated cord of sympathetic. 32. Posterior pulmonary plexus. 33. Phrenic nerve (cut). 35. (Esophageal plexus. 37. Vena azygos major. 39. Thoracic duct. 41. Thoracic aorta. 43. Great splanchnic nerve. G G