DEEP DISSECTION OF ABDOMEN. 230 iliac veins unite to form tlie vena cava on the right side of the verte- bral column. Both arteries are covered in front by the peritoneum, and are crossed by the ureter near their termination, but the left is crossed in addition by the rectum and inferior mesenteric vessels. The left artery lies against the psoas magnus, but the right artery lies upon its own vein at the lower part, and crosses the vein of the opposite side above. The left common iliac vein will be seen to lie to the inner side of its own artery, and then to pass beneath the right artery to reach the vena cava, whilst the right vein is at first behind and then to the outer side of the right artery until it unites with the left. Thus both the veins lie to the right of their respective arteries. The only branches from the trunks of the vessels are small twigs to the iliacus muscle and to the ureter. The Vena Cava Inferior (Fig. 116, 3) lies to the right of the aorta, and in close relation to it except at the upper part. It is formed by the junction of the two common iliac veins on the right of the fifth lumbar vertebra, and lies on the right of the vertebral column as high as the liver; there it passes forwards to enter the posterior border of that gland, through which it reaches the quad- rilateral opening in the diaphragm. It receives the lumbar, right- spermatic, renal, right supra-renal, and phrenic veins, and as it passes through the liver the large hepatic veins open into it; and thus the whole of the blood of the abdomen and lower extremities is returned to the heart. The External Iliac Artery (Fig. 149, 3) reaches from the point of bifurcation of the common iliac to Poupart’s ligament, where it becomes the femoral, its direction corresponding with a line drawn from the umbilicus to a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine. It passes along the brim of the true pelvis, and is bound down to the psoas muscle on the outer side by a process of fascia, which includes both it and the vein, and must be removed in order to expose them. The crural branch of the genito-crural nerve lies close to the outer side of the artery, and the spermatic vessels lie upon it near Poupart’s ligament. The vein lies to the inner side of the artery in the whole of its course upon the left side, but is beneath its upper part on the right side. An inch above Poupart’s ligament one of the branches of the vein (circumflex iliac) will be seen to cross the artery, and close to the ligament the vas deferens hooks round the epigastric artery, and descends into the pelvis to the inner side of the external iliac- artery.