BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. 52 together by tendinous slips on the hack of the hand, those on either side of the ring finger being especially strong ; and that to the little finger is joined by the two divisions of the extensor minimi digiti above and below the point of union with the other tendons. The Extensor Minimi Digiti (Fig. 19, 9) might be taken as a part of the common extensor, but is separated from it by an inter- muscular septum. It arises from the external condyle ; from the fascia and from the intermuscular septa on each side ; and its tendon, after passing through the fifth division of the annular ligament, is generally divided, both slips being inserted into the common expan- sion on the first phalanx of the little finger, but the innermost reach- ing further forward than its fellow (Fig. 22, 19). The Extensor Carpi Ulnaris (Fig. 19, 10) arises from the external condyle ; from the fascia and from the intermuscular septa on each side ; and has an additional origin from an expansion attached to the outer side of the posterior border of the ulna, the fibres covering but not being attached to all the inner part of the posterior surface of the bone. The tendon passes through the sixth division of the annular ligament and behind the styloid process of the ulna, to be inserted into the base of the metacarpal bone of the little finger (5th metacarpal bone). The action of the extensors is implied by their names, but it should be noted that all the extensors of the carpus are inserted into the metacarpus. The extensor carpi radialis longior is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve ; all the others by the posterior interosseous nerve, a branch of the musculo-spiral. The Anconeus (Fig. 19, 11) is a small triangular muscle on the outer side of the elbow, which is apparently continuous with the triceps, but is separated by a narrow cellular interval. It is covered by an expansion of the tendon of the triceps, which must be removed to expose it, when a branch of nerve from the musculo-spiral to the muscle is to be looked for and preserved. It arises from the back of the external condyle of the humerus by a separate origin, and spreads out to its fleshy insertion on the triangular surface upon the outer side of the olecranon and upper third of the ulna. The anconeus is an extensor of the fore-arm, and is supplied by a branch of the musculo-spiral nerve, which pierces its upper margin, and is accom- panied by a branch of the superior profunda artery. [The long extensors must be divided about the middle and turned aside in order to see the deep muscles thoroughly, but the supinator longus should be left uncut. The supinator brevis will require careful dissection beneath the origins of the other muscles, and the arm must