THE THORAX. 446 pulmonary artery; to its right side are the vena cava and right auri- cular appendix ; and to its left side is the trunk of the pulmonary artery. Its branches are the two coronary arteries, which have heen already traced. 2. The horizontal or transverse portion has a direction backwards and to the left side, reaching from the second costal cartilage of the right side to the left side of the fourth dorsal vertebra. In front of this portion are the sternum and left pleura, and, from left to right, the left pneuinogastric with the small cardiac nerves and the left phrenic nerve ; behind are the trachea, the oesophagus and thoracic duct, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve. Above is the left innominate vein ; and below are the left bronchus and the bifurca- tion of the pulmonary artery, the left recurrent laryngeal nerve, and the obliterated ductus arteriosus. The branches of this portion are the innominate, tbe left carotid, and the left subclavian arteries. 3. The descending portion extends to the lower border of the fifth dorsal vertebra, where the descending thoracic aorta begins, but the division between the two vessels is arbitrary. It is invested almost entirely by the left pleura, which binds it to the side of the vertebra;. The Vena Cava Superior (Fig. 227 v.c.) is formed by the junction of the right and left brachio-cephalic or innominate veins, on the right of the innominate artery. The vena cava receives the vena azygos major just above the pericardium, and then, piercing the pericardium, passes in front of the root of the right lung to enter the upper part of the right auricle. Note.—The levels of the aorta here given are lower than those ordinarily laid down, but are the result of numerous independent observations by the author, and by Professor Wood, who originally investigated the subject, and whose paper, in the Journal of Anatomy for December, 1868, may be consulted with advantage. Great Vessels of the Root of the Neck. The three great branches of the second part of the arch of the aorta are the Innominate, the Left Carotid, and the Left Subclavian arteries. The Innominate Artery (Fig. 232, 4) passes upwards and to the right side, and at the stemo-clavicular articulation divides into the right common carotid and right subclavian arteries. It has in front of it the upper piece of the sternum, with the remains of the thymus gland, and the origins of the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles; and is crossed nearly at right angles by the left brachio- cephalic or innominate vein, and obliquely by the right inferior thyroid vein. Behind it at first is the trachea, but afterwards tire