352 THE FACE. The Zygomaticus minor (io), much smaller, usually looks like a part of the orbicularis palpebrarum ; it arises from the malar bone in front of the preceding, and is inserted between it and the levator labii superioris, with which it unites. On the side of the jaw will be seen the insertion of the Platysma Myoides, continuous more or less with the orbicularis oris at the angle of the mouth, and with the muscles below the lip. Occasionally there is a strong slip passing transversely from the fascia over the masseter to the angle of the mouth, and called the E-isorius Muscle of Santorini. The Depressor Anguli Oris (Fig. 186, 13) (triangularis menti) is a triangular muscle arising from the outer surface of the lower jaw, below and a little external to the mental foramen, and inserted into the angle of the mouth. The Depressor Labii Inferioris (Fig. 186, 12) (quadratus menti) arises from the outer surface of the lower jaw, between the symphysis and the mental foramen, and ascends obliquely to meet its fellow in the median line at the lower lip, thus leaving a triangular interval between them. The Levator Menti (Fig. 186, 14) is a triangular muscle placed internally to the depressor of the lower lip, arising from the incisive fossa of the lower jaw and inserted into the skin of the chin. It is best dissected by everting the lower lip and removing the mucous membrane. All the muscles of the face, muscles of expression, are supplied by the facial nerve (portio dura of 7th). In health the muscles of the two sides of the face antagonise one another, and an equilibrium is unconsciously maintained ; but should the nerve of one side be divided, or become paralysed from disease of the temporal bone, the balance of power will be destroyed, and the face will be at once drawn to the healthy side by the preponderating muscles. The paralysed side will remain immoveable, the eye will be open, and the patient will be unable to whistle, etc. The Parotid Gland is the largest of the salivary glands, and is placed between the ear and the lower jaw, its superficial part over- lapping the masseter muscle and being called the socia parotidis. It reaches as high as the zygoma and as far back as the mastoid process, and below, it is separated from the submaxillary gland by the stylo- maxillary ligament. Its deep surface presents three processes ; one occupies the posterior part of the glenoid fossa, a second accompanies the internal maxillary artery beneath the lower jaw, and the third passes backward beneath the sterno-mastoid, and reaches the root of