THE OBTURATOR INTERNUS. 273 narrow space of cellular tissue, are tlie two coccygei muscles ; and posterior to these the two smaller sacro-sciatic ligaments, which bound the great sacro-sciatic foramen. This foramen is closed by the pyri- formis muscle, above and below which vessels and nerves leave the pelvis. The Levator Ani Muscle (Fig. 151, 23) takes its origin from the back of the pubes, and from the front of the spine of the ischium ; between those points its fibres are usually attached to the white line marking the division of the pelvic fascia, and seen on the dissection of the fascia from without (Fig. 144), but occasionally the fibres arise from the pelvic fascia an inch above the white line, the obturator fascia being then a separate structure (p. 261). The anterior fibres pass beneath the bladder and prostate to unite with those of the opposite side in the median raphe of the perinseum, the name levator prostates being sometimes given to those fibres which pass beneath the prostate [in the female they are connected with the vagina] ; the middle fibres are inserted into the rectum and blend with the sphinc- ter ; and the posterior fibres unite with those of the opposite side in the median raphe behind the anus, and are attached to the apex of the coccyx. It is supplied by branches from the 4th sacral nerve, and by a branch from the anterior perineal nerve. The Coccygeus (Fig. 151, 34) is the little triangle of pale muscular fibres having its insertion into the side of the coccyx, and its origin (the apex of the triangle) from the spine of the ischium immediately behind the attachment of the levator ani, from which the muscle is separated by a narrow cellular interval. The coccygeus is intimately connected with the lesser sacro- sciatic ligament, which passes from the sacrum to the spine of the ischium. It is supplied by a branch from the 4th and 5tli sacral nerves. The Obturator Internus Muscle (Fig. 151', 19) has been de- stroyed on the right side, but on the left side of the pelvis may be seen both above and below the level of the fascial origin of the levator ani. It arises from the posterior aspect of the rami of the pubes and ischium immediately in front of the thyroid foramen ; from the inner surface of the obturator ligament; and from the surface of bone behind the foramen as far as the great sacro-sciatic notch. The fibres end in a tendon, which passes out of the lesser sacro-sciatic foramen to be inserted on the upper margin of the great trochanter of the femur, its deep smface being subdivided into four or five small tendons as it winds over the edge of the sacro-sciatic notch, which is encrusted with cartilage and lubricated by a bursa. It is supplied by a special nerve x