328 SIDE OF THE NECK. forms one or more loops with the communicating branches from the cervical plexus. The bifurcation of the carotid will be seen about the level of the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, the internal carotid passing upwards by the side of the jugular vein, with the external carotid in front of it, the anterior branches of the latter reaching forward beyond the sterno-mastoid. Near the clavicle are the omo- hyoid, stemo-hyoid and sterno-tliyroid muscles, and, deeper, the anterior scalenus with the phrenic nerve upon it. On the left side of the body the small thoracic duct will be found arching across the phrenic nerve and anterior scalenus to open into the junction of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. A similar but smaller duct (right lymphatic) may be found on the right side. The small Descendens Noni Nerve (Fig. 177, 14) is now to be dissected out. It is either upon or M'ithin the sheath of the carotid vessels, and is to be traced upwards to the 9th nerve (winch crosses the carotid sheath just below the digastric muscle), and downwards to the muscles in the front of the neck which it supplies, viz., sterno- hyoid, sterno-tliyroid, and omo-hyoid. A branch, which may be double, will be found to come forward from the cervical plexus to join the nerve and form a loop beneath the sterno-mastoid. This is the communicans noni nerve (7), and comes from the 2nd and 3rd cervical nerves. The Anterior Jugular Vein will be found of very variable size, and near the median line of the neck. It pierces the deep fascia, and passes outwards beneath the sterno-mastoid to open into the sub- clavian or external jugular vein. Its size depends upon that of the external jugular, varying inversely with it. Just above the sternum, the two anterior jugular veins are joined by a transverse branch, which, with a little fat, occupies an interval between two layers of the deep cervical fascia which are attached to the upper border of the sternum. [The fascia is now to be removed from the superficial muscles of the triangle, but the carotid sheath should be left untouched for the present.] The Sterno-hyoid (Fig. 176, 14) is the most superficial muscle ; it is" next to the median line, and only separated by a small cellular interval from its fellow of the opposite side. It arises from the back of the first piece of the sternum, from the first costal cartilage, and from the back of the inner extremity of the clavicle ; and is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone. The Sterno-tliyroid (Fig. 176, 15) is deeper and broader than the preceding muscle, by which it is partly covered. It arises from the