THE LINGUAL ARTERY. 373 from the lesser cornu. It is inserted into the side of the tongue, where its fibres decussate with those of the stylo-glossus. It is sometimes described as consisting of three separate portions—basio-glossus, kerato-glossus, and cliondro-glossus. The hyo-glossus draws the sides of the tongue downward. It is supplied by the 9th nerve. The Stylo-Glossus (Fig. 199, 9) arises from near the tip of the styloid process and from the stylo-maxillary ligament, and passing obliquely forwards and downwards, reaches the side of the tongue, into which it is inserted, decussating with the hyo-glossus and joining the fibres of the lingualis. The stylo-glossus raises the margins of the tongue and draws it upwards and backwards, and therefore hack into the mouth when it has been protruded, thus assisting the anterior fibres of the genio- hyo-glossus. It is supplied by the 9th nerve. The Stylo-Pharyngeus (Fig. 199, n) arises from the root of the styloid process on its inner side, and passes downward to disappear between the upper and middle constrictors of the pharynx opposite the hyoid bone. Its insertion will be seen in the dissection of the pharynx.* The stylo-pharyngeus is supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal ner :e, which winds round its posterior border. [The hyo-glossus is to be divided near the hyoid bone to expose the lingual artery, the branches of which are to be cleaned. The tongue being put on the stretch, all remains of mucous membrane covering the genio-hyoid and genio-hyo-glossus muscles are to be removed and the muscles cleaned.] The Lingual Artery (Fig. 200) has been seen for a short distance in the anterior triangle, viz. from its origin from the external carotid until crossed by the hyo-glossus. It was crossed by the hyo-glossus, digastric, and stylo-hyoid muscles, and by the hypoglossal nerve, and is now seen to lie against the origin of the middle constrictor of the pharynx immediately above the hyoid bone, and then to pass on to the genio-hyo-glossus, by which it is conducted to the tip of the tongue. Its branches are four in number :— * It will assist the student in remembering the origins of the muscles from the styloid process if he notice that the origins are inversely as the insertions, i.c. that the muscle which arises highest is inserted lowest down. Thus the order of the origins from above downwards is stylo-pharyngeus, stylo-hyoid, and stylo-glossus.