BASE OF THE BKAIN. 489 cerebral artery, and winds round the crus cerebri to the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. The Circle of Willis (Fig. 252) is the name given to the com- munication between the arteries at the base of the brain, and may be traced on either side from before backward as follows :—Anterior communicating, anterior cerebral, and carotid arteries ; posterior communicating, posterior cerebral, and basilar arteries. This free anastomosis is of importance in carrying on and equalising the circu- lation of the blood in the brain, when an obstruction to one of the main trunks occurs. Various irregularities of the vessels forming the circle of Willis may be met with, the arteries being much above or below their normal size in various parts of the circle ; but the direct communi- cation between the trunks is almost constant. The Veins of the brain open into the sinuses of the skull, which have been examined (p. 301). The Base of the Brain. [The arachnoid and pia mater are to be carefully dissected from the base of the brain, care being taken not to detach any of the nerves. It should be noticed that the pia mater disappears, on the outer side of each crus cerebri, beneath the middle lobe of the cerebrum ; this is the commencement of the great transverse fissure of the brain, which opens into the inferior cornu of the lateral ventricle. The pia mater upon the cerebellum and posterior part of the cerebrum should be left undisturbed, so that the velum interpositum may not be damaged.] The under surface of the great brain or Cerebrum is divided into three lobes on each side of the median line. The Anterior Lobe (Fig. 253, 2) of the cerebrum is separated from the middle lobe by the fissure of Sylvius, and from the opposite side by the longitudinal fissure. Its under surface is hollowed out in the centre, and fits closely upon the orbital plate of the skull. It presents several small orbital convolutions, and close to the median line the extremity of the convolution of the longitudinal fissure (marginal convolution), in which, about half an inch from the fissure and parallel to it, is the olfactory sulcus which lodges the olfactory peduncle. The Middle Lobe (Fig. 253, 18) of the cerebrum is separated from the anterior lobe by the fissure of Sylvius, but is continuous with the posterior lobe, the division between the two being marked only by the border of the cerebellum, the under surface of which is now seen. It occupies the middle fossa of the base of the skull, and pre-