EXTERIOR OF THE BRA.IN. 498 (p. 493), separating the anterior from the middle lobe, can now be traced out, and will be seen to divide into two portions, the posterior or horizontal, which runs between the frontal (f) and temporal (t), lobes, and the anterior or vertical (c) which ascends between the frontal convolutions. Posterior to this portion of the fissure of Sylvius is a well-marked groove, the fissure of Eolanclo (d) which, beginning at the margin of the longitudinal fissure, runs downward and forward nearly to the horizontal Sylvian fissure, being bounded in front and behind by two large and well-marked convolutions, and separating the frontal from the parietal lobe. The Parallel Fissure (/) is a well-marked fissure parallel to and below the horizontal Sylvian fissure, and running between the con- volutions of the temporal lobe. The Parieto-occipital fissure (li) separates the parietal and occipital lobes more or less completely, being sometimes a mere notch at the upper margin of the hemisphere. It is continuous with the parieto- occipital fissure seen on the inner surface of the hemisphere, which commences near the posterior extremity of the corpus callosum, where it is continuous with the calcarine fissure, and passes upwards and backwards to the upper surface of the hemisphere. The Frontal Lobe (f) contains one well-marked vertical convolu- tion bounding the fissure of Rolando, and called the ascending frontal convolution (4), with three more or less horizontal convolutions in front of it, named respectively lower (1), middle (2), and upper (3) frontal. The Parietal Lobe (p) contains one well-marked vertical convolu- tion posterior to the fissure of Rolando, and called the ascending parietal convolution (5), with three more or less horizontal convolu- tions behind it, named respectively the parietal lobule, the supra- marginal lobule, and the angular gyrus. The Parietal Lobule (5') is continuous with the ascending parietal convolution, and lies along the margin of the longitudinal fissure, being connected to the upper part of the occipital lobe by the first annectent convolution (a). The Supra-marginal Lobule (a) lies below the preceding, and above the fissure of Sylvius. It is very variable in shape and size, and is connected posteriorly with the following convolution. The Angular Gyrus (6) is posterior to the supra-marginal lobule, and is very irregular in form. Behind, it is connected with the occipital lobe by the second annectent convolution (/3). Between the ascending parietal convolution and the supra-marginal lobule is the commencement of a fissure named by Turner intro-