198 INGUINAL HERNIA. fascia and skin. Thus the number of coverings of both varieties is the same, the difference consisting in the substitution of the conjoined tendon for the cremaster muscle. Coverings of Inguinal Hernia. Oblique. Peritoneum or sac. Fascia transversalis (or infundibular fascia). Cremaster muscle (or fascia). Intercolunmar or spermatic fascia. Superficial fascia. Skin. Direct. Peritoneum or sac. Fascia transversalis. Conjoined tendon. Intercolunmar or spermatic fascia. Superficial fascia. Skin. By dividing the fascia transversalis about half an inch to the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, there will be found an artery called the deep epigastric, lying between the two rings and running in a line from the middle of Poupart’s ligament to the umbilicus, and the varieties of inguinal hernia have been named external or internal according to their relation to this vessel. It is obvious that a hernia passing through the internal ring must be external to this artery, and hence oblique hernia and external hernia are synonymous terms. In the same way, direct hernia protrudesdlirough the abdominal wall to the inner side of the epigastric artery, and thus internal is the same as direct hernia. The anatomy of the parts concerned in hernia being fully compre- hended, it will be readily seen that the direction in which force is to be applied to return the protruded bowel into the abdomen—com- monly called the taxis—must differ in the two cases ; and the student should notice the effect which the position of the body and limbs has upon the tissues near the groin. Thus, with the body and legs extended at full length, the lower part of the abdomen is rendered tense ; wdiilst if the thigh is flexed upon the pelvis and adducted, and the body bowed forward, the structures become relaxed, and would more readily admit of the return of the protruded bowel. Varieties of Hernia.—There are two varieties of oblique inguinal hernia, termed congenital hernia and infantile or encysted hernia, the anatomy of vfliich requires explanation. To understand these fully it will be necessary to refer for a moment to the descent of the testis (p. 193). "When the testicle is in the abdomen it has the peritoneum attached to its surface, and during its descent into the scrotum it accordingly drags a fold of peritoneum down with it, so that at first a tube extends along the whole length of the inguinal canal (Fig. 98). By a natural process