453 THE THORACIC DUCT. The Thoracic Duct (Fig. 235, 13) is a delicate tube about eighteen inches long, embedded in loose tissue between the aorta and the vena azygos major. By cutting away the remains of the diaphragm care- fully, it may be traced from the receptaculum chyli (12) opposite the second lumbar vertebra, and will be found to pass through the aortic opening to the right side of the aorta. It continues to the right of the aorta, lying between it and the vena azygos, as high as the fourth dorsal vertebra, and then crosses obliquely to the left of the spine behind the arch of the aorta, and runs along the left side of the oeso- phagus through the superior aperture of the thorax. In the neck the duct reaches as high as the sixth cervical vertebra, and then, crossing the left vertebral artery and thyroid axis, curves downwards in front of the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, to enter the left subclavian vein at its jimction with the left internal jugular. The duct occa- sionally passes higher in the neck, and opens into the jugular at the point where some irregular vein joins it. The duct is dilated near its termination, and is often double both there and in the thorax. It has valves at various points, and by opening the subclavian vein a pair may be found at its entrance into the vein, which prevent the reflux of blood into the duct. Between the ribs close to the vertebrae, some intercostal lymphatic glands may be found, which open into the duct. (Esophageal and bronchial glands may also be seen in connection with the tubes of $ the same name. 3. Pharyngeal branch of pneumo- gastric. 4. Glosso-pharyngeal nerve. 5. Lingual nerve (5th). 6. Spinal-accessory nerve. 7. Middle constrictor of pharynx. 8. Internal jugular vein (cut). 9. Superior laryngeal nerve. 10. Ganglion of trunk of pneumo-gas- tric nerve. 11. Hypoglossal nerve on hyo-glossus. 12. Ditto communicating with eighth and first cervical nerve. 13. External laryngeal nerve. 14. Second cervical nerve looping with first. 15. Pharyngeal plexus on inferior constrictor. 16. Superior cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 17. Superior cardiac nerve of pneumo- gastrie. 18. Third cervical nerve. 19. Thyroid body. 20. Fourth cervical nerve. 21,21. Left recurrent laryngeal nerve. 22. Spinal-accessory, communicating with cervical nerves. 23. Trachea. 24. Middle cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 25. Middle cardiac nerve of pneumo- gastric. 26. Phrenic nerve (cut). 27. Left common carotid artery. 28. Brachial plexus. 29. Phrenic nerve (cut). 30. Inferior cervical ganglion of sym- pathetic. 31. Posterior pulmonary plexus of pneumo-gastric. 32. Thoracic aorta. 33. (Esophageal plexus. 34. Vena azygos superior. 35. Yena azygos minor. 36. Gangliated cord of sympathetic.