353 THE FACIAL ARTERY. the styloid process and the deep vessels and nerves of the neck. The duct of Stenson (ductus Stenonis) arises from the anterior part below the socia parotidis, and passes transversely across the masseter, to open into the mouth through the buccinator muscle opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Immediately below the duct is a large branch of the facial nerve, and above it the transverse facial artery. The gland is traversed by the external carotid artery, which gives off its two terminal branches (temporal and internal maxillary) in its substance; by the external jugular vein ; and by the facial and guriculo-temporal nerves,jirom~both of which it receives branches. The structiire’oT’the parotid is that of a compound racemose gland, like the other salivary glands. It receives parotid branches from the temporal artery, and its special nervous supply from the auriculo-temporal and sympathetic nerves. [The remains of the platysma are to be removed to show the facial artery and vein in front of the masseter, and the artery is to be fol- lowed out to the inner angle of the eye with as little injury to the muscles as possible.] The Facial Artery (Fig. 187) [external carotid], the cervical por- tion of which has been already dissected (p. 334), appears on the face immediately in front of the masseter muscle, where it lies on the lower jaw and is crossed by the platysma. It then passes upwards and in- wards beneath the zygomatici muscles to the side of the nose, lying upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles in its course. At the side of the nose it is crossed by the outer portion of the levator labii superioris aheque nasi, and reaches the angle of the orbit to anastomose with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery. This is therefore one of the points of communi- cation between the. external and internal carotid vessels. Branches.—As the artery crosses the jaw it gives— 1. Masseteric and buccal branches to the corresponding muscles. 2. The Inferior labial (13) branch, which runs midway between the chin and the mouth, passing transversely beneath the depressor anguli oris. 3. The Inferior coronary (15) branch, taking the same course as the preceding but nearer the margin of the lip. Its size depends upon that of the inferior labial, with which it anastomoses, and also with the vessel of the opposite side. 4. The Superior coronary (17) branch, often arising in common with the inferior coronary. It pierces the orbicirlaris oris, and runs beneath the mucous membrane of the lip to anastomose with the vessel of the A A