48 BACK OF THE FORE-ARM. and, keeping to its ulnar side, accompanies it over the annular liga- ment into the palm. Branches (Fig. 17).—The ulnar nerve gives small articular branches to the hack of the elbow, and supplies one and a half of the muscles of the fore-arm, viz., the flexor carpi ulnaris and the inner half of the flexor profundus digitorum. In the lower third of the fore-arm the nerve gives a dorsal branch (20), which turns backwards beneath the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris to be distributed to the back of the little and half the ring finger. A cutaneous palmar branch of small size arises about the middle of the fore-arm, and after running down the front of the ulnar artery becomes cutaneous close above the annular ligament, and is dis- tributed to the skin of the palm on the ulnar side. The Radial Nerve (Fig. 17,13) is seen to arise from the musculo- spiral nerve opposite the elbow. It lies at first upon the supinator brevis, to the outer side of, and at some little distance from, the radial artery ; but in the middle thud of the arm it is in close relation with the artery on the pronator teres, finally passing beneath the tendon of the supinator longus to the back of the fore-arm and hand. The Back of the Fore-arm. [The front of the fore-arm having been dissected, the skin can be reflected from the back of the arm without further incisions, but an incision must be made along the inner border of the hand and across the knuckles, to permit the reflection of the skin from the back of the hand. An incision is also to be made along the thumb and each of the fingers, and the skin reflected, when the cutaneous nerves and veins are to be dissected out of the superficial fascia.] Cutaneous Nerves (Fig. 18).—The back of the fore-arm is supplied at the upper part by the branches of the musculo-spiral nerve (2) and internal cutaneous nerve (1), which were seen above the condyles of the humerus in the dissection of the back of the arm (p. 34). In addition and lower down, there will be found on the outer side of the limb, branches from the musculo-cutaneous nerve (4), and on the inner side, branches of the internal-cutaneous nerve (3); at the wrist, on the outer side, the large radial nerve (6) which pierces the deep fascia in the lower third of the fore-arm, and, after communicating with the musculo-cutaneous nerve, distributes digital branches to both sides of the thumb, fore-finger, and middle finger, and to the radial side of the ring finger, forming in addition a loop across the back of the hand with the following nerve.