191 EXTERNAL ABDOMINAL RING. cartilage to the pubes. In addition to these larger insertions there are two small ones which cannot he defined in the present stage, viz., into the ilio-pectineal line (forming Gimbernat’s ligament) and into the crest of the pubes of the opposite side, forming the triangular fascia. Immediately above the pubes, the spermatic cord (or the round ligament of the uterus in the female) will be seen to emerge from the tendon, the opening being obscured by the inter columnar or external spermatic fascia, which must be removed to expose the abdominal ring. The External Abdominal Ring' (Fig. 95, i) is merely a slit in the external oblique tendon, placed obliquely immediately above and to the outer side of the spine of the pubes. In the healthy subject it is triangular with the base downwards and inwards, being about an inch in length and half an inch across, and its boundaries have been named the pillars or columns of the ring. It will be observed that the outer pillar is triangular at the upper part, but becomes round and thick below, and corresponds to Poupart’s ligament ; whilst the internal pillar is flat, and is continuous with the rest of the tendon. At the upper part of the ring may be seen some curved fibres running in a transverse direction and called the intercolumnar fibres, the con- tinuation of which formed the intercolumnar or external spermatic fascia. It should be noticed that the spermatic cord does not lie in the centre of the ring, but upon the outer pillar or Poupart’s ligament, which is slightly drawn down by the weight of the testis. [The external oblique is to be reflected by cutting, both vertically and horizontally, through its muscular fibres where they join the tendon, and by detaching them from the ribs immediately below their origin. The greater part of the muscle can then be turned back towards the loin, and the corresponding tendon may be dis- sected up as far as possible towards the median line. The handle of the knife should be passed under the triangular portion of tendon left in the groin, parallel to and as near the median line as possible, after which the tendon may be readily divided by a vertical incision, and reflected towards the thigh without endangering the subjacent parts. When this is done, it will be found that the tendinous fibres of one side decussate or interlace with those of the other immediately above the pubes, and cross to the opposite side of the median line, where they become attached to the spine and crest of the pubes, and sometimes as far as the ilio-pectineal line, thus forming the triangular fascia.* The internal oblique muscle will * This tissue, which can be defined in well-developed subjects only, is better named triangular fascia than triangular ligament, which is apt to be confounded with the deep fascia of the perinseum.