20 FRONT OF THE UPPER ARM. The Front of the Upper Arm. [An incision is to be made down the front of the arm to three inches below the bend of the elbow, and the skin is to be reflected on each side for a couple of inches, to allow of the dissection of the superficial nerves and veins.] The Internal Cutaneous Nerve (Fig. 5, 8) is to be followed out from the inner cord of the plexus to the fore-arm. It lies at first to the inner side of the axillary artery, and then, piercing the deep fascia at or near the point at which the basilic vein enters, it runs in front of the inner condyle and subdividing, sends branches both over and under the median basilic vein to the inner side of the fore-arm. A posterior branch winds above the inner condyle to the back of the fore-arm. The Lesser Internal Cutaneous Nerve (nerve of Wrisberg) (Fig. 5, 2), after joining with the intercosto-humeral nerve, pierces the fascia at a variable point, and supplies the lower third of the inner side of the upper arm behind the internal cutaneous nerve. It is not always present. A cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral nerve appears on the inner side of the upper arm, below the teres major, and is distributed to the skin (Fig. 5, 6). [The veins of the arm are very variable, and the best way of dis- secting them therefore, will be to follow both basilic and cephalic veins down to the elbow, and to trace out their radicles.] The Median Vein (Fig. 5, 14) is near the centre of the fore-arm and divides into two branches, the median basilic and median cephalic, which pass obliquely inwards and outwards respectively, to assist in forming the basilic and cephalic veins. Piercing the deep fascia near the centre of the bend of the elbow is the profunda vein, which joins the median near its point of bifurcation, and forms a communication between the vence comites of the arteries of the fore-arm and the super- ficial veins, the direction of the current of blood varying in different subjects. The Anterior and Posterior TJlnar Veins (Fig. 5, 12) end on the inner side of the fore-arm in a single trunk, which unites with the median basilic to form the basilic vein. The Basilic Vein (Fig. 5, 10) runs up the inner side of the arm to about its middle, where it pierces the deep fascia and becomes the axillary vein, receiving, at a variable point, the venoe comites of the brachial artery. To the inner side of the basilic vein, and about an inch above the condyle is a lymphatic gland of small size.