THE ANKLE-JOINT. 157 Below the interosseous membrane is the inferior interosseous liga- ment, which consists of very short fibres passing between the tri- angular rough impressions on the adjacent surfaces of the tibia and fibula, immediately above their inferior articulation. The Inferior tibio-fibular articulation (Fig. 83) is a simple arthro- dial joint continuous with the ankle-joint. It has anterior and pos- terior ligaments between the two bones resembling those above, and, in addition, placed below the posterior and distinct from it, a trans- verse (or inferior) ligament (3) which reaches from the external malleolus to the posterior surface and malleolus of the tibia, forming part of the true ankle-joint. Ankle-Joint and Articulations of the Foot. The ankle-joint is a hinge joint capable of limited lateral motion when the toes are pointed. It has in front the tendons of the tibialis anticus, the tibial vessels and nerve, the extensor proprius pollicis, and the extensor longus digitorum with the peroneus tertius. Behind, to the inner side are the tendons of the tibialis posticus, the posterior tibial vessels and nerve (or it may he the plantar vessels and nerves); the flexor longus pollicis near the middle ; and to the outer side, the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis (Fig. 65). The ankle-joint has anterior, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The Anterior Ligament (Fig. 84, 7) is a broad membrane which is seldom seen entire. It is attached to the lower margin of the tibia, and to the superior surface of the astragalus, close to its head and joining the lateral ligament on each side. The Posterior Ligament (Fig. 83, 7) is not described by many authors, and is little more than a few fibres stretching over the syno- vial membrane between the back of the tibia and the astragalus. The Internal Lateral Ligament (Fig. 84, 6) is triangular in shape, and hence has been called deltoid. The apex is attached to the extremity of the internal malleolus, and the base to the posterior part of the astragalus, to the lesser process of the os calcis, and the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone. A strong deep portion passes from the apex of the malleolus to the side of the astragalus. The External Lateral Ligament (Fig. 85) consists of three slips ; two horizontal attached to the astragalus, and one, more or less vertical, to the os calcis. The anterior slip (6) is attached to the front of the external malleolus and to the side of the astragalus in front of the superior articular surface ; the middle (7) is a round cord which reaches backwards from the tip of the malleolus to the outer