507 THE THALAMUS OPTICUS. quadrigemina and the pineal gland, which latter is very liable to he removed with the velum interpositum, unless it is carefully dissected.] The Third Ventricle (Fig. 260) is the space in the middle line between the two optic thalami, which with the peduncles of the pineal gland form its lateral boundaries. Its roof is formed by the fornix and velum interpositum, and its floor by the structures con- tained within the circle of Willis at the base of the brain, viz., the lamina cinerea, optic cliiasma, tuber einereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus posticus (from before backwards). The anterior boundary of the ventricle is formed by the anterior commissure (5), a wrhite band between the two corpora striata, which may be seen between and in front of the two anterior pillars of the fornix ; the posterior boundary is the posterior commissure (Fig. 263, 14), a slender white band between the two optic thalami, which may be seen immediately in front of, and a little beneath, the pineal gland. Stretching across the ventricle between the two optic thalami is the middle or soft commissure (7) (frequently torn), which divides the ventricle into two portions, to which the names foramen commune anterius and foramen commune posterius are sometimes given. The third ventricle communicates with the two lateral ventricles by the foramen of Monro, and with the fourth ventricle by the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum or aqueduct of Sylvius, which passes beneath the posterior commissure, the pineal gland, and the corpora quadrigemina (Fig. 263, 16). In the foetus the third ventricle com- municated in addition with the fifth ventricle, and with the infundi- bulum (iter ad infundibulum). The Thalamus Opticus (Fig. 260, 6) is now fully exposed, and will be seen to be a large body partly white and partly grey, placed posteriorly to the corpus striatum and at the side of the third ventricle. It is the great ganglion of sensation, and has been seen to form part of the floor of the lateral ventricle by its upper surface, on which is a slight prominence called the anterior tubercle. Along the inner margin is a narrow' white band, one of the peduncles of the pineal body; and by its inner surface, which bounds the third ventricle, it gives attachment to the middle and posterior commissures of the thud ventricle, the posterior piercing its substance. The thalamus opticus forms the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle, and by drawing it upward on the side upon which the cornu has been opened, two projections on its under surface may be seen. These are the Corpora Geniculata (externum and internum)