THE TESTICLE. 283 surrounds the urethra. The dorsal vein, with a dorsal artery and nerve on each side of it, lie along the upper surface of the corpora cavernosa. The Testicle (Fig. 155) has already been seen in its position in tire scrotum, and its structure should now be investigated as far as possible, but cannot be thoroughly seen without mercurial injection. The testis consists of two parts, an anterior or larger portion, the body of the testis, and the accessory and more slender posterior part, the epididymis, which is to the outer side of the body, and from the lower end of which the ms deferens or duct arises. The testicle has three tunics or coverings. The tunica vaginalis (i) is a serous covering derived originally from the peritoneum, and described as consisting of two portions, the tunica vaginalis propria, which covers the organ, and the tunica vagincdis reflexa or re- flected portion. The tunica albuginea (2) is a fibrous covering enclosing the body of the testis, and sending into its centre a vertical process called the mediastinum (3) or corpus Highmorianum. From this, secondary processes or septa are derived, which separate the lobules of the testicle. The tunica albuginea is inseparably connected with the tunica vaginalis, thus forming a fibro-serous membrane. The tunica vasculosa (4) is beneath the tunica albuginea, and contains the ramifications of the blood-vessels, which cannot be seen except when finely injected. The Epididymis (Fig. 156) is divided into three parts. The upper extremity is the head or globus major (7), which is divisible into coni vasculosi; the central portion is the body (8), and the lower ex- tremity the tail or globus minor (9), which is larger than the body, but not so large as the head. From this the ms deferens (10) or duct of the testicle arises, and close to its point of origin may I'iic. 155. Fig. 155.—Transverse section of the testicle (from Wilson). 1. Cavity of the tunica vaginalis. 2. Tunica albuginea. 3. Mediastinum testis giving oif numerous septa. The cut ex- tremities of the vessels below the figure belong to the rete testis; and those above to the arteries and veins of the organ. 4. Tunica vasculosa, or pia mater testis. 5. One of the lobules, consisting of the convolutions of the tubuli seminiferi, and terminating by a single duct, the vas rectum. G. Section of the epididymis.