PART VI. DISSECTION OF THE BACK AND SPINAL CORD. In dissecting the Back it is customary for the dissectors of the arms to take the first two layers of muscles, and the dissectors of the head and neck the remainder of the region, including the spinal cord. [An incision is to be made from the occiput to the sacrum in the median line, and another along each crest of the ilium at right angles to it. The dissectors should then raise the skin with all the infil- trated fascia, going at once down to the superficial muscles, through which the cutaneous nerves appear. On the left side of the subject the arm is to be drawn forward so as to put the latissimus dorsi on the stretch, and the dissector should begin to clean the lower part of that muscle, and work upward to the trapezius ; on the right side the arm should be pulled down at first, and the head drawn over to the opposite side with hooks, to put the upper fibres of the trapezius on the stretch, and the dissector must begin at the upper border of that muscle (already exposed in the posterior triangle) and work down- ward to the latissimus dorsi. On both sides the arm and scapula will require to be moved from time to time to put the different sets of fibres on the stretch in turn.] The Cutaneous Nerves (Fig. 248) are derived from the posterior divisions of the spinal nerves, and are mostly of small size ; but the upper dorsal nerves reach the shoulder and the lumbar the buttock. The cervical and upper dorsal nerves pierce the trapezius close to the spine, the second and third turning up to the occiput ; the lower six dorsal and the lumbar nerves appear near the angles of the ribs and pierce the latissimus dorsi along the oblique line at which the muscular fibres commence ; and the sacral nerves give small branches through the tendinous expansion near the spine. The First Layer of Muscles (Fig. 245) consists of the Trapezius and Latissimus Dorsi. The Trapezius partially overlaps the latissi- mus, but between them and the base of the scapula is a small triangular interval in which the lower fibres of the rhomboideus major can be seen, and also, below that muscle, the posterior surfaces of two or three ribs and their intercostal muscles. h h 2