SUPERFICIAL BRANCHES OF CERVICAL PLEXUS. 307 Beneath the skin is the superficial fascia, and between the layers of it at the lower part of the neck is the platysma muscle, the fibres of which may be cleaned at once while removing the skin. Care must be taken as soon as the upper border of the platysma is reached to keep close to the skin, or the superficial nerves may be injured. The Platysma Myoides (Fig. 164, 6) is only seen now in its lower part, the remainder of it will be found in the dissection of the anterior triangle and face. It is a subcutaneous muscle arising from the fascia over the pectoral and deltoid muscles, and very slightly from the front of the clavicle ; it passes obliquely across the neck to be inserted into the lower border of the lower jaw near the symphysis and into the side of the mouth, the fibres of opposite sides interlacing below the symphysis, and the muscle if well developed reaching as high as the zygoma. It is supplied by the superficial cervical nerve. Through the platysma will generally be seen the External Jugular Vein (Fig. 164, 13), which, it is to be noticed, runs parallel or nearly so to the fibres of the muscle; if therefore, in bleeding from the jugular, an incision were made in the direction of the vein, there would be no opening by which the blood might escape, and hence the rule in practice, viz., to cut parallel to the sterno-mastoid, i.e., across the fibres of the platysma, so that they may retract. The Platysma is to be detached from the clavicle and turned forward, and the Superficial Branches of the Cervical Plexus are to be found. These are in two sets,—the ascending, comprising the Superficial Cervical, Great Auricular, and Small Occipital nerves, and the descending set comprising the Sternal, Clavicular, and Acromial branches. a. The Superficial Cervical Nerve (Fig. 164, 17) [from the second and third nerves] will be found turning round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, and crossing it transversely beneath the platysma to ramify over the anterior triangle, where it communicates with the infra-maxillary branches of the facial nerve. b. The Great Auricular Nerve (Fig. 164, 11) [from the second and third nerves] is the largest branch of the set, and turning round the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, passes obliquely to the pinna, and ends in three sets of branches, facial to the parotid gland and skin covering it, which communicate deeply with the facial nerve; auricular to the back of the pinna ; and mastoid to the skin over the mastoid process. This last is often of large size, and may be mistaken for the following : x 2