301 THE LATERAL SINUSES. the tentorium cerehelli at a line corresponding to the position of the straight sinus. The Tentorium Cerebelli (Fig. 160, 8) is the horizontal process of dura mater placed between the cerebrum and cerebellum, and when perfect it leaves only an oval opening of small size, through which the crura cerebri, the superior peduncles of the cerebellum and the posterior cerebral arteries pass. In front it is attached to the anterior and posterior clinoid processes of the sphenoid bone and the superior border of the petrous bone, and behind it is attached to the upper margin of the lateral sinus where it grooves the occipital, parietal, and temporal bones. The Falx Minor (Fig. 160, 14) or falx cerebelli is below the tentorium in the median line, and reaches to the foramen magnum, being attached to the median ridge of the occipital bone. It generally divides below, sending a slip to each side of the foramen magnum. The Sinuses are the venous canals of the skull into which the veins of the brain, orbit, and diploe empty themselves, and differ from the ordinary veins, (1) in not having the usual venous coats but being formed by layers of the dura mater lined with venous endo- thelium, and therefore remaining patent when divided; (2) in having no valves ; and (3) that the veins open into them in a direc- tion contrary to that of the current of blood within them. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus (Fig. 160, 1) runs along the upper border of the falx major (v. p. 298), and along its lower border is a much smaller canal, the Inferior Longitudinal Sinus (4). This begins about the middle of the falx and opens into the straight sinus. The Straight Sinus (Fig. 160, 10) must be opened along the line of attachment of the falx to the tentorium. It is formed by the venae Galeni of the brain and the inferior longitudinal sinus, and opens into the torcular Herophili, thus connecting the two longi- tudinal sinuses together. The Occipital Sinuses (Fig. 160, 18) are two in number, but of smaller size. They pass forwards one on each side from the torcular Herophili, and along the bifurcated attachment of the falx cerebelli, to the jugular vein. The Torcular Herophili (Fig. 161, 21) is the point where the superior longitudinal, straight, occipital, and two lateral sinuses meet. It is usually situated on the right of the internal occipital protuber- ance, but is sometimes to its left. The Lateral Sinuses (Fig. 161, 20) are the largest and, com- mencing at the torcular Herophili, take a curved course to the