447 THE RIGHT INNOMINATE VEIN. prolongation of the right pleura into the neck. To the right side are the right innominate vein and right phrenic nerve; to the left side, the origin of the left common carotid, and afterwards the trachea. The innominate artery ordinarily gives off no branch, hut occasion- ally a small branch (thyroidea ima, middle thyroid artery of Harrison) arises from it or from the aorta close to it, and runs up the front of the trachea to the thyroid body. The Left Common Carotid Artery (Fig. 232, n).—The left common carotid runs upwards and to the left side, at a level anterior to that of the left subclavian artery, and from the left sterno- clavicular articulation its relations correspond to those of the right carotid artery (p. 331). The thoracic portion has in front of it the upper piece of the sternum, with the remains of the thymus gland, and the origins of the stemo-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles ; and is crossed by the left innominate vein. It lies against the trachea at first, and then upon the oesophagus and thoracic duct; having the innominate artery, the trachea, and the left recurrent laryngeal nerve to its right side, and the left pneumogastric nerve with its cardiac branches, the left sub- clavian artery and the pleura to its left side. The Left Subclavian Artery (Fig. 232, 12) extends from the arch of the aorta to the inner border of the scalenus anticus, and may be conveniently divided into a thoracic and a cervical portion. The thoracic portion is nearly vertical in its direction, and lies to the left side of, but in a plane posterior to that of, the left carotid artery. It is crossed by the left innominate vein and by the left pneumogastric and cardiac nerves; it lies against the spine; with the oesophagus and thoracic duct to the right side, and the pleura to the left. Irregularities of the Great Vessels.—The number and position of the branches of the arch of the aorta are subject to variation. The commonest variety is for the left carotid to arise from the innominate, thus reducing the branches to two ; hut four branches may be due to the right carotid and subclavian arising separately from the arch. Occasionally when four branches are present, the right subclavian arises from the extreme left of the arch, and passes to the right side in front of or behind the oesophagus. The left vertebral artery not unfrequently arises from the aorta between the left carotid and left subclavian; and the thyroidea ima may occasionally arise from the arch. The Right Innominate Vein (Fig. 227) commences at the inner end of the clavicle by the junction of the subclavian and internal jugular veins, and then descends on the outer side of the innominate