THE PERINJSUM. 170 a thickened band of the unstriped circular fibres of the rectum, and differs therefore in structure from the external sphincter, which is a voluntary muscle. [The edge of the gluteus maximus is now to he defined, since it forms the boundary of the dissection; it will be found extending obliquely upwards and outwards (in this position) from the tip of the coccyx. The fat filling the space between the anus and the edge of the muscle is to be carefully removed piecemeal, care being taken to preserve the inferior hasmorrhoidal vessels and nerve which run nearly transversely towards the bowel, and also a little branch of the fourth sacral nerve near the posterior part of the space, or ischio-rectal fossa.] The Ischio-rectal Fossa (Fig. 88) is the space on each side of the rectum, bounded behind by the gluteus maximus muscle and great sacro-sciatic ligament, in front by the pubes and triangular ligament. Its deep boundaries are, on the inner side the levator ani muscle, which slings the rectum, and has an oblique direction towards the middle line ; and on the outer side, the obturator internus lying on the internal surface of the thyroid foramen. Both these muscles are covered by processes of fascia derived from the pelvic fascia ; that covering the obturator muscle being called the obturator fascia, and that upon the levator ani being the anal fascia (see diagram of pelvic fascia). When the finger is pushed into this space, it is prevented from entering the pelvis by the reflection of this fascia upon the two muscles, and on the surface of the body the fossa corresponds to the space between the anus and the tuber ischii. The ischio-rectal fossa is filled with loose granular fat, which is traversed by the inferior lisemorrhoidal vessels and nerve. On the outer side of the space and behind the margin of the pubes, the pudic vessels and nerves, which afterwards pass forward through the an- terior part of the space, can be felt enclosed in a tube of fascia ; and it is here that the artery can be effectually compressed in cases of haemorrhage after lithotomy. Surgery.—The tissues in the ischio-rectal fossa are more or less involved in the several forms of fistula in ano, and the sphincter ani, together with some of the fat and a small branch of artery, will be more or less divided in the ordinary operation for the cure of that affection. In the operation of lateral lithotomy the left ischio-rectal fossa is cut into, and care has to be taken not to injure the rectum on the inner, or the pudic artery on the outer, side of the space. The Levator Ani Muscle (Fig. 88, 18) arises within the pelvis, being attached to the back of the os pubis, to the spine of the ischium,