210 THE PERITONEUM. of Winslow. This will he found by passing the finger carefully round the right border of the lesser omentum, immediately below the liver, when its point may be seen through the semitransparent double fold of the lesser omentum. To see the cavity of the lesser bag, an incision must be carefully made through the double anterior layer of the great omentum, when, if the parts are healthy, the bag will be readily opened and the finger passed through the foramen of Winslow will be clearly seen. Tracing it from the foramen, the membrane of the lesser bag will be formd to form the posterior layer of the lesser omentum, then to cover the posterior surface of the stomach, and to be prolonged down- wards to form the two internal layers of the great omentum ; after which it covers the upper part of the transverse colon and forms the upper layer of the transverse meso-colon. It then passes up over the pancreas to the under surface of the liver behind the transverse fissure. The Foramen of Winslow (Figs. 107 and 108) is simply a con- striction of the peritoneum dividing it into two parts, produced by the passage of the hepatic artery forwards and upwards to the liver. When the finger is in the foramen it will feel the following boundaries. In front, the lesser omentum containing the hepatic artery, bile duct, and portal vein ; behind, the right crus of the diapliragm and the inferior vena cava ; below, the hepatic artery (as it passes forwards from the aorta); above, the lobus Spigelii of the liver. It is sometimes preferred to trace the two sacs of the peritoneum together, which can be readily done in the following way. Be- ginning at the liver, one layer covers the front and the other the back of the under surface of the organ, and the two meet at the transverse fissure to form the lesser omentum. They then separate to enclose the stomach, uniting at its lower border to form the anterior two layers of the great omentum; being reflected upon themselves they next form the posterior two layers, which separate to enclose the transverse colon, forming the transverse meso-colon as they are prolonged to the spine. The two layers now leave one another, and the upper one (lesser bag) is prolonged over the pancreas to the under surface of the liver, where it commenced. The under layer (greater bag) forms the mesentery around the small intestines ; the recto-vesical pouch between the bladder and rectum ; and passes over the abdominal wall to the diaphragm, from which it is reflected on to the liver, where the description commenced. Besides tracing the peritoneum vertically as has been shown, it should be traced horizontally as follows. Below the level of the transverse colon the circle will be found to be exceedingly simple.