444 THE THORAX. three branches, two of which join the left hand of the portal vein, and the other, which is the ductus venosus, joins the inferior vena cava. In the inferior vena cava the placental blood is joined by that returned from the lower extremities, and afterwards, through the hepatic veins, by that circulated through the liver; and is then poured into the right auricle. The Eustachian valve, of large size in the foetus, directs the current across the auricle to the foramen ovale, which is patent, and the blood enters the left auricle. From the left auricle the blood necessarily passes into the left ventricle, and is thence propelled through the aorta to the head and upper extremities. From these it is returned by the superior vena cava, which enters the upper part of the right auricle, and the blood descends at once into the right ventricle, thus taking a course at right angles to the former one. From the right ventricle the blood is propelled into the pulmonary artery, and a small portion reaches the lungs through the right and left pulmonary arte- ries, but by far the larger portion passes through the ductus arteriosus (a short tube connected with the pulmonary artery close to the bifur- cation), and enters the descending portion of the arch of the aorta. Through the aorta the blood reaches the iliac arteries, and a small portion passes by the external iliacs to the lower extremities, but the rest passes by the internal iliacs to the hypogastric arteries, which run to the umbilicus and then wind round the umbilical vein to the placenta, under the name of umbilical arteries. The Pulmonary Artery (Fig. 232, 13) has already been seen to arise from the right ventricle and to lie in front of the aorta. It then passes to the left side of the aorta, where it bifurcates into right and left pulmonary arteries, which go to their respective lungs ; the right being the longer of the two and necessarily passing beneath the arch of the aorta, and the left crossing the descending aorta. The position of each of the arteries in the root of the lung has been already seen, the right being below and the left above its bronchus. Connecting the pulmonary artery with the descending portion of the arch of the aorta is a fibrous cord, externally to which the recurrent laryngeal nerve of the left side passes from the trunk of the pneumo- gastric. This is the obliterated ductus arteriosus, which in the foetus is a vessel nearly as large as the aorta, passing from the left division of the pulmonary artery to the arch of the aorta just beyond the left subclavian. The Pulmonary Veins (Fig. 232, 19) are four in number, two to each lung. Their positions in the roots of the lungs have been seen, and they have been traced to the left auricle of the heart. The right