12 THE AXILLA. serratus magnus, with the four upper riba and intercostal muscles ; and to the outer side the upper part of the humerus and the coraco- brachialis muscle. The base of the cone has already been seen to be the axillary fascia stretched between the anterior and posterior boundaries, and the apex will now be found with the finger in a triangular interval between the clavicle, the upper border of the scapula, and the first rib. The great vessels and nerves lie along the outer boundary of the space, the artery being between the nervous cords and the vein to their inner side, whilst the branches of the artery take a general direction towards the thorax. On the inner side of the space and imbedded in fat are the glands, ten or twelve in number, which receive the lymphatics from the mamma and arm, the superficial ones lying along the edge of the pectoralis, and the deeper ones in close proximity to the axillary vessels, occasionally even surrounding them. Opportunity is to be taken, before any further dissection is made, to expose the lower part of the axillary artery thoroughly, as that is the portion of the vessel to which a ligature may be best applied. Surgery.— To tie the axillary artery: the arm being drawn away from the trunk, an incision, three inches long, is to be made in the length of the limb, at a distance behind the edge of the pectoral muscle equal to one-third of the whole width of the axilla. On dividing the deep fascia, the large axillary vein will come into view, which must be drawn down and held aside, when the large nervous cords will be seen, and a little dissection will expose the axillary artery placed deeply between them. The aneurism needle is to be passed from below (in this position), i.e. between the vein and artery. When the axillary artery is tied the circulation in the limb will depend upon the anastomoses between the branches of the artery above and below the ligature, i.e. of the superior and acromio- thoracic with the subscapular and circumflex arteries. These last will also bring blood by their anastomoses with the suprascapular and posterior scapular arteries from the thyroid axis. [The clavicular portion of the pectoralis major is to be divided vertically about its middle and reflected, without injuring the cephalic vein, when branches of the acromio-thoracic artery and the external anterior thoracic nerve will be seen entering its under surface. The upper border of the pectoralis minor will now be exposed, with the costo-coracoid membrane above it.] The Costo-Coracoid Membrane is the strong fascia seen im- mediately above the pectoralis minor, where it covers the axillary vessels and gives passage to the acromio-thoracic artery, the cephalic