CUTANEOUS NERVES OF ABDOMEN. 187 Percussion and palpation should be carefully practised, in order to make out the limits of the principal organs of the abdomen before the dissection is begun, and the student is referred to Fig. 106, on which the position of the several viscera is shown iii health, but from which considerable variations may be expected. The presence of fluid in the peritoneal cavity may be ascertained by the production of fluctuation, between the hands applied on opposite sides of the abdomen. [In order to dissect the abdominal wall, it is necessary to distend the abdomen fully with air. To do this, a narrow knife should be thrust through the umbilicus into the peritoneal cavity, and a blowpipe be inserted. A circular incision is then to be made through the skin round the umbilicus, and a piece of whipcord tied round the blow- pipe and in the groove cut in the skin. When the abdomen has been fully distended, the blowpipe is to be withdrawn, and the opening carefully secured. One incision is to be carried from the ensiform cartilage to the pubes (avoiding the umbilicus), and another at right angles to it along the crest of the ilium and from the anterior superior spine of the ilium horizontally to the middle line. A third at the level of the ensiform cartilage is to reach well back to the loins. The skin is then to be reflected from the median line by these incisions.] The Superficial Fascia in this region resembles that throughout the body, but is sometimes much loaded with fat ; it is to be re- flected by the same incisions as the skin, and in doing this there will be found in it the terminations of the cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneoirs Nerves (Fig. 94) consist of two sets, anterior and lateral. The anterior nerves, which are very small, will be found in two rows, one close to the linea alba, and the other piercing the tendon of the external oblique two inches from the median line ; the lateral branches will be found of greater length, running along the fibres of the same muscle and also giving a few small twigs back- wards. Both sets are derived from the dorsal spinal nerves. About two inches behind the anterior spine of the ilium and half an inch above tire crest, will be found the lateral cutaneous branch of the last dorsal nerve, and close upon the crest of the bone a little pos- terior to the preceding nerve will be seen the iliac branch of the ilio-hypogastric nerve (1st lumbar), both of them going to the buttock (13). Accompanying the nerves will be found (in a well-injected body only) small branches of arteries derived from the intercostal, internal mammary, and epigastric arteries.