MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 349 it the antilielix (5), the groove between the two being the fossa of the helix (7). The deep cavity leading to the meatus externus is the concha (9), and the little nodule in front of it the tragus (10), the cor- responding nodule behind being the antitragus (n). The lowest part of the ear is the lobule, which consists of fat. The extrinsic muscles of the ear (Attrahens, Attollens, and Retra- hens) have been seen in the dissection of the scalp. Various small muscles have been described as passing from one point to another of the cartilage of the pinna, but do not require special description. They can be sufficiently seen in Figs. 183 and 184, and will not repay the trouble of dissection. [The cheeks are now to be distended with cotton wool and the lips carefully sewn together. A little piece of wool may also be intro- duced beneath the eyelids with advantage. An incision is to be made from the temple in front of the ear, along the jaw to the chin (the scalp having been already dissected), and the skin is to be care- fully reflected towards the median line. A cut around the orbit and mouth will avoid interference with the eyelids and lips. All muscular fibres and vessels are to be carefully preserved, but the small nerves are to be cut away, together 'with all the loose fat. The parotid gland in front of the ear is to be preserved, and its duct traced across the face below the malar bone.] Muscles of the Face or Muscles of Expression. The Orbicularis Palpebrarum (Fig. 186, 4) is a broad muscle surrounding the orbit and attached to its inner angle, being continuous above with the fibres of the occipito-frontalis (v. p. 293). It arises from the internal angular process of the frontal bone, from the tendo oculi passing between the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the inner extremities of the tarsal cartilages, and from the nasal process itself. Its fibres surround the orbit and are attached to the skin ; those passing on the lids are called the palpebral fibres (or palpebralis muscle), and are attached externally to the malar bone and external tarsal ligament. The orbicularis palpebrarum is the muscle which closes the eye- lids, and is therefore the direct antagonist of the levator palpebrae. The Corrugator Supercilii will be seen by removing the portion of the orbicularis covering the brow. It arises from the inner part of the sirperciliary ridge, and is inserted into the orbicularis about the centre of the eyebrow. The Pyramidalis Nasi (Fig. 185, 1) is a small slip of muscle lying along the nasal bone, continuous with the occipito-frontalis