THE FEMALE PERINEUM. 180 and is only brought into view with some difficulty. It takes the same course as the artery, and ends in the dorsal nerve of the penis, which will be afterwards dissected. [The flaps of skin should be carefully sewed together before the body is moved from its position.] Anterior Space in the Female. [A little cotton-wool is to be inserted in the vagina, and the margins of the labia majora are to be fastened together by a few stitches. An incision is then to be carried transversely above the junction of the labia, from which two vertical incisions, as near the margin of each labium as convenient, are to be prolonged to the central point of the perinseum. The flaps of skin can now be re- flected from the middle line, supposing the transverse incision behind the labia to have been already made.] The Superficial Fascia of the anterior half of the female perinseum resembles that of the male, in being divisible into two layers—super- ficial and deep. The superficial layer of superficial fascia is continuous with the fascia of the body generally, and usually contains much fat, forming the labium. The deep layer of superficial fascia is not so strongly marked as in the male, but has the same connections. It is continuous with the deep fascia of the groin, and is attached on each side to the front of the rami of the pubes and ischium, nearly to the tuberosity. It then makes a turn around the transversus perimei muscle on each side, and joins the deep perimeal fascia or triangular ligament, v. p. 183. Owing to the position of the vulva, the deep layer of superficial fascia is divided in the middle line and becomes continuous with the sheath of the vagina ; and thus also the pouch between the deep layer of superficial fascia and the triangular ligament (p. 172) is divided in the female into two parts, which have been named pudendal or vulvo-scrotal sacs of Broca. [The deep layer of superficial fascia is to be removed, and the superficial perimeal vessels and nerves dissected out.] The Superficial Perinseal Artery (artery of the labium) (Fig. 92, 5) is larger than in the male. It is a branch of the internal pudic artery, and arises under cover of the ramus of the ischium to run forwards and inwards. It enters the pouch of fascia by piercing the lower border of the triangular ligament, and then passes over or