THE PELVIS. 262 internally where the sheath of the prostate begins, and corresponds to the lateral true ligament of the bladder (Godlee). Thus, the levator ani muscle is seen to be enclosed by the recto- vesical and anal layers of fascia; the ischio-rectal fossa to be lined by the obturator and anal layers ; and four of the true ligaments of the bladder to be formed by the recto-vesical layer,—the fifth being the obliterated urachus. In the Female the recto-vesical layer forms the ligaments of the bladder in the same way as in the male, but in addition gives a covering to the vagina. [A side-view of the contents of the pelvis is now to be obtained in the following way :— The left obliterated hypogastric artery with the vesical and haemorrhoidal arteries (and uterine and vaginal in the female) are to be severed, and the bladder and rectum turned as much as possible to the right side. The left lateral true ligament of the bladder is to be divided, and the knife carried through the subjacent levator ani muscle. A cut is then to be made with the saw through the pubes just external to the left anterior true ligament of the bladder, anti another is to be made through the whole length of the sacrum and coccyx just to the left of the middle line, which will neces- sarily divide the right common iliac artery and left common iliac vein. The sacrum may be conveniently sawn partly on its anterior and partly on its posterior surface, and the two cuts united with the chisel, by which time will be saved. The knife is now to be carried closely along the ramus of the pubes of the left side so as to detach the urethral muscles and triangular ligament, when by using a little force the pelvis will be divided into two parts, the right containing all the viscera, and the left the internal iliac vessels and sacral plexus of that side. A staff should be passed through the urethra into the bladder, which is to be moderately distended with air, and the rectum is to be carefully dis- tended with tow or cotton-wool, and secured by a string to the top of the sacrum or lumbar vertebra.] Side View of the Pelvis (Fig. 147).—Beginning in front, and supposing the dissection of the perinseum to have been made as directed, the bulb of the urethra (9) will be plainly seen lying in front of the triangular ligament or deep perinseal fascia (7), which has been purposely left untouched on the left side. The edge of the triangular ligament which has just been detached from the ramus of the pubes will be recognised, and immediately behind will be seen some pale muscular fibres, the cut edges of the compressor urethras (Guthrie). The staff may be felt through these as it lies in the