19 LATISSIMUS DORSI AND TERES MAJOR. upper ribs, there being two digitations attached to the second rib. The fibres have a general direction backwards to the inner surface of the base of the scapula, where they are inserted, but the first two digitations unite to form a thicker portion corresponding to the sur- face at the upper angle, while the last four form a still larger bundle, corresponding to the surface at the inferior angle of the scapula. These last slips interdigitate with the external oblique muscle of the abdomen. The serratus magnus is a great muscle of forced inspira- tion, taking its fixed point from the scapula, which is firmly held by the rhomboids and levator anguli scapulae muscles, and thus raising the ribs. If the muscle has the ribs for its fixed point, the scapula is drawn forward, the bone gliding over the ribs and a quantity of loose cellular tissue which lies upon them, and the strong bundle inserted into the lower angle serving to antagonize the levator anguli scapulae and rotate the scapula so as to raise the arm above the head. The serratus is supplied by the posterior thoracic nerve. Insertions of the Latissimus Dor si and Teres Major.—The upper part of the latissimus winds round the lower angle of the scapula, which it envelopes in a sort of fold, and ends in a broad, thin tendon, which passes in front of the teres major to be inserted into the bottom of th-ei bicipital groove of the humerus above the level of the teres major. The tendon of the latissimus dorsi, like that of the pectoralis major, is twisted, so that the fibres of the muscle which were highest at their origin are lowest at their insertion, and vice versa, and it is the narrowest of the three tendons inserted into the bicipital groove. The teres major, which is fleshy throughout, passes behind the tendon of the latissimus, being more or less incorporated with it* and is inserted into the inner or posterior edge of the bicipital groove, exactly opposite the pectoralis major, a bursa being formed between the insertions of the latissimus and teres. Opportunity should be taken, when the clavicle is divided by the dissector of the neck, to trace the axillary nerves to their origins, and to study the brachial plexus, the description of which is given with the “ Posterior Triangle.” 21. Coraco-brachialis. 27. Middle subscapular ner\ e. 22. Intercosto-humeral nerve, 28. Short subscapular nerve. 23. Ulnar nerve. 29. Long subscapular nerve. 24. Subscapularis. 30. Pectoralis major (cut), 25. Brachial artery. 31. Basilic vein. 26. Lateral cutaneous branch of 3rd 32. Serratus magnus. intercostal nerve. 33. Latissimus dorsi.