1G8 THE PERINEUM. scrotum is the anus or orifice of the bowel, and between the two is the true perinceum, which will be seen to be marked by a median raphe. Around the anus the skin is thrown into folds, which, if enlarged, form one variety of external piles. By drawing the anus slightly open, a white line will be seen, marking the junction of the skin with the mucous membrane, and corresponding to the separation between the internal and external sphincter muscles (Hilton). In the female (Fig. 92) the scrotum may be considered to be split in the median line, to form the two lahia majora, which however consist simply of cellular tissue and fat, and are continuous above' with the mons Veneris, a thickened portion of the integument over the pubes (only partially seen in this view). The labia are united in front by the anterior commissure; they bound the vulva and are continued backwards to the anterior boundary of the perinseum, where they are united by the posterior commissure. In a female who has not borne children, a small transverse fold of mucous membrane may be seen just within the posterior commissure, which is called the fourchette, and between the two is the fossa navicularis. By separating the labia the clitoris will be seen at the upper part of the vulva, resembling a diminutive penis in appearance and struc- ture, and having a small and ill-defined glans and prepuce. The nymphce or labia minora extend obliquely downwards from each side of the clitoris, being connected both with the organ itself and its prepuce, and are lost in the labia majora and wall of the vagina below. The vestibule is a triangular interval, with the apex at the clitoris and the base at the orifice of the vagina, the sides being formed by the nymphce. An inch below the clitoris is the meatus urinarius, which is slightly prominent, and is placed immediately above the orifice of the vagina. The entrance of the vagina may be more or less occluded by a hymen, which is a reduplication of mucous membrane, usually of a crescentic form with the concave border upwards. The carunculce myrtiformes are three or four little projections from the vaginal wall behind the hymen, and are independent of that membrane. On each side of the vagina immediately in front of the hymen, or its remains, are the orifices of the vulvo-vayinal glands or glands of Bartholin. The orifices of numerous sebaceous follicles will also be found scattered over the vulva. The true perinoeum of the female is between the posterior commis-