356 THE FACE. The ■posterior auricular nerve (13) winds below the meatus to the back of the ear and communicates with the great auricular nerve (23). It divides into an auricular branch, which supplies the retrahens nurem muscle, and an occipital branch which supplies the posterior belly of the occipito-frontalis. The digastric and stylo-hyoid nerves (21) arise together and supply the corresponding muscles. A branch from the digastric nerve perforates the digastric muscle and communicates with the glosso- pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid nerve communicates with the sympathetic on the external carotid. Passing forward deeply in the parotid gland, the facial nerve divides into two large trunks, the temporo-facial (22) and the cervico- facial (19) divisions, from which numerous branches arise, causing by their interlacement the appearance termed the pcs anserinus, or goose- foot. The temporo-facial receives communicating branches from the auriculo-temporal nerve (5th) in front of the pinna, and the cervico- facial division receives one or two branches from the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus. From each division of the facial nerve three sets of branches are derived, whose direction is indicated by their names. Temporo- ( Temporal (4). Cervico- ( Buccal (24). facial J Malar (12). facial < Supra-Maxillary (30). division ( Infra-orbital (16) division ( Infra-maxillary (34). These branches all ramify upon the face and supply the facial muscles, communicating with the several divisions of the 5th nerve, excepting the infra-maxillary, which run below the jaw to the neck and communicate with the superficial cervical nerve (31). The branches are to be traced to all the “muscles of expression,” and also to the buccinator, one of the muscles of mastication as well as of expression. The three divisions of the 5th Nerve appear upon the face, and each of them will be found three times in front of the ear. The First or Ophthalmic Division (Fig. 188) appears (1) as the supra-trochlear nerve (6) at the inner angle of the orbit; (2) at the supra-orbital notch as the supra-orbital nerve (8), which has been traced to the forehead ; and (3) as the nasal nerve (18), which will now be found emerging from between the nasal bone and lateral cartilage on the side of the nose. (Small terminal twigs of the infra-trochlear and lachrymal nerves may also be sometimes found with care.) The Second or Superior Maxillary Division (Fig. 188) appears (1) as the infra-orbital nerve (20) at the infra-orbital foramen, between