THE PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. 3C6 condyle, as above directed, to see the whole of its course. It passes between the roots of the auriculo-temporal nerve to the foramen spinosum, by which it enters the skull. Before doing so, it gives off the meningea parva to enter the foramen ovale, and a tympanic branch to enter the Glasserian fissure. The Second Part of the internal maxillary artery varies in position in different subjects. It is always intermuscular, but it may lie between the temporal and external pterygoid, or between the external and internal pterygoid muscles. If it lies superficially to the external pterygoid muscle, it passes between its two heads to reach the pterygo-maxillary fossa. Its branches are all muscular, i.e. to the muscles of mastication. There are two deep temporal branches (anterior (2) and posterior (3)) running in the substance of the temporal muscle; a masseteric branch (15) of small size passing through the sigmoid notch to the under surface of the muscle (now neces- sarily divided); two pterygoid branches, uncertain in origin and course ; and a buccal branch (10) which generally pierces the external pterygoid muscle to accompany the nerve to the surface of the buccinator. The Posterior dental artery (6), one of the branches of the third part of the internal maxillary artery, can be seen entering one of the fora- mina on the posterior surface of the superior maxilla, in which it ramifies, supplying that bone and the molar teeth. The Internal Maxillary Vein receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and between the muscles forms the pterygoid plexus, which communicates with the facial vein by the anterior internal maxillary vein. It enters the parotid gland, to join the temporal vein and form the external jugular. The Inferior Maxillary Nerve (Figs. 196 and 197) (3rd division of 5th) as soon as it emerges from the foramen ovale divides into a motor and a sensory portion, the latter, however, having a few motor fibres mingled with it. The Motor Portion (Fig. 196) with wfiicli there are also sensory fibres, is of small size, is placed externally to the sensory portion, and is distributed to the muscles of mastication, running with the cor- responding branches of the internal maxillary artery. Its branches are, anterior and posterior temporal (2 & 3), masseteric (j5), pterygoid and buccal (10), and are difficult to find, except the last, which is of good size, and may be traced to the surface of the buccinator, where it communicates with the facial nerve, which has probably most to do with the supply to that muscle. The Sensory Portion (Fig. 197) gives off a branch to the internal