FEMORAL ARTERY IN SCARPA’S TRIANGLE. 93 it passes to the popliteal space. The part now exposed is that above the sartorins, and is usually nearly half of the whole length of the vessel. When the'thigh is slightly flexed and abducted, the artery runs from a point midway between the symphysis pubis and the anterior superior iliac spine (or a little to the inner side of the centre of Poupart’s ligament), through the middle of the triangle in a line with the promi- nent tubercle on the inner condyle of the femur ; but when the thigh is fully ex- tended it will be seen to wind slightly to the inner side of the limb. This portion of the artery is covered only by the super- ficial fascia and fascia lata, except near Poupart’s ligament, where it has been seen to be enclosed in the femoral sheath. One or two branches of the internal cuta- neous nerve cross the vessel at variable points. Behind the artery from above downwards are, the psoas (with a portion of the femoral sheath and the nerve to the pectineus) ; the pectineus, but separated from the femoral artery by the profunda artery and vein and the femoral vein ; and the adductor longus. To the outer side throughout is the anterior crural nerve, but separated at the upper part by a small piece of the psoas ; and the long saphenous branch is in close relation at the lower part of the space. The femoral vein is to the inner side near Poupart’s ligament, but lower down is behind the artery, forming one of its posterior relations. Surgery (Pig. 46).—From its superficial position the femoral artery can be readily felt during life, and compression may be effected in any part of the triangle, but most satisfactorily against the margin of the pubes. The artery has been tied above the origin of the profunda, through an incision parallel to Poupart’s ligament and half an inch below it, but the vessel is more commonly tied at the lower part of the triangle. The latter operation is readily performed through an incision, from three to four inches long, beginning two inches below Poupart’s ligament and running in the middle of the Fig. 46.—Incisions for tying the femoral artery (from Fergusson’s ‘ Surgery’). Fig. 46.