THE PELVIS. 268 side to study the position of the os uteri, when the uterus is in its proper position and when displaced. The Bladder (Fig. 148, 4) closely resembles that viscus in the male, but is rather larger, and its fundus is in contact with the vagina instead of with the rectum. The Urethra (Fig. 148, 6) in the female is about an inch and a half long, placed immediately beneath the pubes and curved upwards slightly to the bladder. It may be said to correspond to the prostatic and membranous urethra of the male. The Uterus (Fig. 148, 18) is situated behind the bladder, and, if in its proper position and healthy, its upper end or fundus should not reach above a line drawn from the upper edge of the pubic symphysis to the lumbo-sacral articulation (Savage). The uterus is tilted slightly forwards so that its axis corresponds to that of the pelvis, and its lower end or cervix is received into the upper end of the vagina. The Broad Ligament (Fig. 109, b) of the uterus is the fold of peritoneum attached to each side of the fundus, in which are three partial subdivisions, viz., a superior in which is the Fallopian tube, an anterior in which is the round ligament of the uterus, and a posterior covering the ovary. The right round ligament of the uterus is now to be traced from the internal abdominal ring to the fundus of the uterus, but the Fallopian tube and ovary may be more conveniently examined with the uterus at a later period. The Vagina (Fig. 148, 12) is a curved tube of which the anterior wall is considerably shorter than the posterior, the former in the virgin rarely exceeding two inches in length, but the latter being nearly twice as long (Savage). It is in contact with the bladder in front, and with the rectum behind at the lower part, but the recto- vaginal pouch of peritoneum intervenes between the two organs above. The neck of the uterus projects backwards into the upper extremity of the vagina, and its lower extremity passes through the levator ani muscle and is surrounded by the sphincter vaginae. [The viscera of the pelvis being drawn down to the left, the internal iliac vessels and sacral plexus of the right side can be examined, and they should also be dissected on the left half of the pelvis, which has been preserved for the purpose. Opportunity may be taken to trace branches of the sympathetic nerve to the sides of the pelvic organs.] The Internal Iliac Artery (Fig. 149, 4) is a branch of the com-