THE AXILLARY ARTERY. 13 vein, and the external anterior thoracic nerve. It is attached to the coracoid process, to the lower surface of the clavicle, and to the first rib, and when divided will be seen to cover the axillary vessels and nerves and to enclose the subclavius muscle, being continued for some distance on the vessels, the sheath of which it strengthens. The Subclavius (Fig. 1, 5) is a small muscle which arises by a tendon from the cartilage of the first rib, and is inserted into the groove on the under surface of the middle third of the clavicle. It is a depressor of the clavicle, and is supplied by a special branch of the brachial plexus above the clavicle. The sheath of the axillary vessels is derived from the fascia in the neck, and passes beneath the clavicle. It is strengthened by a pro- cess of the costo-coracoid membrane, and is gradually lost upon the vessels. [The remains of the costo-coracoid membrane and sheath of the vessels are to be carefully removed without injury to the superior and acromio-thoracic arteries, and the axillary artery and vein and brachial nerves in their upper part are to be cleaned. This dissec- tion will admit light into the upper part of the axilla, and allow its boundaries and contents to be better studied. The remainder of the pectoralis major is then to be divided to expose the pectoralis minor with the long thoracic artery at its lower border.] The Pectoralis Minor (Fig. 1, 6) is beneath the pectoralis major, and therefore assists in forming the anterior boundary of the. axilla. It arises from the anterior extremities of the third, fourth, and fifth ribs, about an inch from their junctions with the cartilages, and is inserted into the inner side of the coracoid process of the scapula, thus crossing obliquely the axillary vessels and nerves. The pectoralis minor would draw the coracoid process and scapula downwards, but is principally a muscle of inspiration, taking its fixed point from the coracoid process, and so raising the ribs. It is supplied by the internal anterior thoracic nerve. [The pectoralis minor is to be divided two inches from its insertion, when the axillary vessels and nerves will be fully exposed and are to be cleaned. The small nerve emerging from between the artery and vein, and entering the pectoralis minor, is the internal anterior thoracic.] The Axillary Artery (Fig. 2, 11) is the continuation of the sub- clavian, and extends from the lower border of the first rib to the lower border of the insertion of the teres major. In its upper part