MUSCLES OF THE PALATE. 395 palate. Sir W: Fergusson showed that the two segments of a fissured soft palate are drawn asunder by the levatores palati on every occa- sion of swallowing, and he therefore proposed and carried out the division of these muscles, by means of a knife having a lancet-shaped blade set at right angles to the handle, which is passed through the fissure. Opportunity is to be taken, before the pillars of the fauces are dissected, to observe the important surgical fact that a bistoury, if made to transfix the tonsil from before backwards, will pass internally to the carotid artery, unless the point of the instrument is directed purposely to one side, in which case only would it be possible to injure this important vessel. The Eustachian Tube (Fig. 207, 2) is the communication be- tween the pharynx and the tympanum or middle ear. The osseous portion of the canal is in the temporal bone, but the cartilaginous portion is now seen to be nearly an inch in length, and to ter- minate in a broad trumpet-shaped end at the posterior extremity of the inferior turbinate bone. The cartilage of which the tube' is formed is triangular in shape and is doubled upon itself, the defi- - ciency at the lower part being completed by fibrous tissue. In the recent condition the thick mucous membrane converts the opening into a mere vertical slit, which is generally closed, but during the j' process of deglutition is opened by the action' of. the circumfiexOk / palati muscle, and thus the equilibr ium of the air in the tymparfum^ is maintained. - . [The palate is to be drawn up so as to put the pillars of the fauces on the stretch as much as possible, and the mucous membrane is to be removed to expose the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus muscles.] The Palato-glossus is placed in front of the tonsil, and is very small and indistinct. The muscle arises from the middle line of the soft palate in common with its fellow, and descends to the side of the tongue, where it is inserted, joining the fibres of the stylo-glossus and liyo-glossus muscles. The Palato-pharyngeus (Fig. 207, 9) is larger than the palato- glossus, and is placed behind the tonsil. It arises in the palate by two slips, which are separated by the levator palati and azygos uvular muscles, and the fibres of which meet those of the opposite muscle in the median line. The muscle passes obliquely downwards to the pharynx, to be inserted into the posterior border of the thyroid carti- lage with the stylo-pharyngeus, and to be lost in the wall of the pharynx itself.