DEEP DISSECTION OF NECK. 380 Ivin" between it and the jugular vein, and close to the skull is joined by the accessory portion of the spinal-accessory nerve, and expands to form the ganglion of the trunk, from which the two following branches can now be traced. The pharyngeal branch (Fig. 180, 3,) receives a branch from the spinal-accessory nerve and then passes in front of (or behind) the internal carotid artery to the pharynx, where it joins the pharyngeal plexus (p. 388). The superior laryngeal nerve (Fig. 180, 9) takes an oblique course behind the internal carotid to the thyro-liyoid membrane. The cranial branches of the pneumo-gastric will be subsequently described (p. 386). The Spinal-accessory Nerve (Fig. 201, 10) leaves the jugular foramen in the sheath of the pneumo-gastric nerve, with which it has communicating branches. It gives branches, by means of the accessory part which joins the vagus in the jugular foramen, to join the pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches of the vagus. The principal or spinal part' passes over or under the internal jugular vein, and pierces the sterno-mastoid muscle to end in the trapezius. The Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 201, 6) emerging at the anterior condyloid foramen, comes forward between the pneumo-gastric and spinal-accessory nerves, and crosses the external carotid artery. It has branches of communication with the pneumo-gastric and sym- pathetic, and also with the first spinal nerve. Its distribution to the muscles of the tongue has been already seen (p. 372). The Rectus Capitis Lateralis (Fig. 202, 8) is now seen from the side between the jugular vein and the vertebral artery. It arises from the upper surface of the transverse process of the atlas, and is inserted into the under surface of the jugular process of the occipital bone. [By carefully removing the rectus lateralis, the small anterior branch of the first cervical nerve may be found upon the anterior arch of the atlas, forming a loop with the second nerve.] The First Cervical Nerve (sub-occipital nerve) (Fig. 201) has a small anterior division, which leaves the posterior division on the posterior arch of the atlas. It runs forward beneath the vertebral artery, and lies on the anterior arch to the inner side of the rectus lateralis, which it supplies, giving also branches to the pneumo-gastric and ninth nerves, and the superior ganglion of the sympathetic. In front of the vertebrre the first nerve forms a loop with the second cervical nerve, which is much larger. The Superior Cervical Ganglion (Fig. 201, 8) of the sym-