THE AXILLA. 10 chest the muscle would depress it, or if the hand were fixed would drag the trunk upwards, as in climbing. It may also act as an ex-- traordinary muscle of inspiration when the arm is fixed, as is seen in the case of asthmatic persons. It is supplied by the external anterior thoracic nerve and partly by the internal anterior thoracic nerve. In very well developed subjects, muscular slips are not unfrequently found lying at the side of the sternum and superficial to the pectoralis, with which they may have some connection ; but they are more frequently continuous with the sterno-mastoid or rectus abdominis. The Axilla. [If the arm is well drawn from the side the boundaries of the axilla or armpit will be readily seen, and if the skin has not been already removed from the posterior boundary (latissimus dorsi), it should now be turned back. The strong deep fascia will be seen stretching from the pectoralis to the latissimus dorsi, forming the base of the conical space known as the axilla ; and the student should again notice that it is impossible to thrust the finger deeply into the space so long as the fascia is stretched by the extension of the arm, but that when the arm is drawn to the side the finger passes into the space,-and can feel the axillary artery (if injected), and the head of the humerus partially.] The lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal vessels and nerves are to be found behind the border of the pectoralis major, by carefully dividing the fascia parallel to the ribs. The first intercostal nerve has no lateral branch, but six lateral branches from the upper nerves (from 2nd to 7th) will be found appearing at the side of the chest, between the. digitations of the serratus magnus. Each lateral cutaneous nerve, except that of the second, divides into anterior and posterior branches, which turn forwards to the pectoral region and backwards over the latissimus dorsi respectively (Fig. 2). The lateral cutaneous branch of the second nerve passes down the inner side of the arm to join the lesser internal cutaneous nerve, or nerve of Wrisberg, and is hence called the intercosto-humeral nerve (24). The posterior branch from the third nerve usually accompanies and joins this. These last must be found at once and are to be carefully preserved. < [All the fat is to be removed from the axilla, and the muscles cleaned so far as they are exposed, care being taken not to injure the axillary vessels (particularly the vein) and nerves, which are to the outer side of the space ; nor the posterior thoracic nerve, which