122 BACK OF THE LEG. loosely folded over some fat, and is of a darker colour tlian elsewhere, and has been termed the Haversian gland. < The Ligamentum Teres (Fig. 58, 7) is not round, but prismatic or flattened. It is attached above to the non-articular portion of the acetabulum by two slips, which reach the margins of the notch in the cotyloid cavity, and below to the pit in the head of the femur. This ligament, though it would assist in preventing absolute dislocation, particularly forwards, has but little effect upon the movements of the joint, since it has been shown conclusively that it is only put irpon the stretch during flexion, adduction, and rotation outwards of the thigh. The Cotyloid Ligament (Fig. 58, 6) is a fibro-cartilaginous ring, thinner at its free-edge than at the point of attachment, which is fixed to the brim of the cotyloid cavity and serves to deepen it, fitting closely also against the head of the femur. That part of it which is carried across the notch on the inner side of the margin of the aceta- bulum is called the transverse ligament, and beneath it the articular vessels pass to the interior of the joint. The Back of the Leg. [A vertical incision through the centre of the remaining portion of skin on the back of the leg, joined by a short transverse cut at the heel, will permit the reflection of the skin to each side.] The External Saphenous Nerve (Fig. 59, 8) (communicans tibialis) will be found piercing the deep fascia of the leg about half- way down the limb, to join the communicans fibularis (4) which becomes cutaneous near the knee. The nerve thus formed runs along the outer side of the tendo Achillis, and passes behind the external malleolus to the outer side of the foot. A branch or two of the interned saphenous nerve (7) may be found on the inner side of the back of the leg. The External Saphena Vein (Fig. 59, 6) appears behind the external malleolus close to the saphenous nerve, and running up the centre of the leg, pierces the deep fascia at the point where the com- municans tibialis nerve emerges ; it has been already traced to the popliteal vein. The saphena vein not unfrequently runs superficially to the upper part of the popliteal space before it joins the popliteal vein. [The deep fascia of the leg, which is continuous with that of the thigh, is to be removed, except near the internal malleolus, where the internal annular ligament is to be preserved. The muscles of the calf are then to be dissected, being put on the stretch by supporting the knee and drawing the toes towards the front of the leg.]