490 BASE OF THE BRAIN. sents the convolutions forming the temporal lobe, to be afterwards described. The Posterior Lobe is not divided from the middle lobe by any marked fissure, but is that part of the cerebrum which is above the cerebellum. It will be most convenient to examine the several structures found in the base of the brain in front of the pons Yarolii from before backward, first in the median line and afterwards on each side. In the median line from before backwards are—(1) the longitudinal fissure; (2) the lamina cinerea; (3) the optic commissure ; (4) the tuber cinereum (with the infundibulum and pituitary body); (5) the corpora albicantia; (6) the locus perforatus posticus. On each side from before backward are—(1) the under surface of the anterior lobe of the cerebrum, with (2) the olfactory bulb and the olfactory peduncle resting in the olfactory sulcus ; (3) the optic nerve (in front of the commissure), and (4) the optic tract (behind the com- missure) ; (5) the locus perforatus anticus close to the commencement of (6) the fissure of Sylvius ; (7) the crus cerebri diverging from its fellow, with the commencement of the transverse fissure to its outer side ; (8) the third nerve appearing between the divergent crura ; (9) the fourth nerve winding round the crus ; (10) the under surface of the middle lobe of the cerebrum. The Longitudinal Fissure (Fig. 253, i) is the terminal portion of the fissure which divides the upper surface of the brain into the two hemispheres. It separates the anterior lobes of the cerebrum, and, if these are drawn apart, a white body will be seen at the bottom of the fissure, which is the corpus callosum; the anterior part, around which the anterior cerebral artery turns, being known as the genu, and the central portion continued into the lamina cinerea as the rostrum. The Lamina Cinerea (Fig. 253, 4) is a thin grey layer, con- tinuous with the under surface of the corpus callosum and prolonged to the margin of the optic commissure. This is often torn in remov- ing the brain. The Optic Commissure or Chiasma (Fig. 253, 7) is the point of communication between the two optic nerves. The fibres of each optic tract are said to have the following arrangement :—The outer- most fibres pass to the optic nerve of the same side ; the middle fibres decussate with those of the opposite side forming a figure of X, and pass to the optic nerve of the opposite side ; the most internal fibres are reflected back to the brain along the opposite optic tract behind the cross arrangement, and a few fibres of the optic nerve pass in front of it from one eye to the other.