THE FIFTH VENTRICLE. 503 Taenia semicircularis; 3. Thalamus (opticus); 4. Choroid plexus ; 5. Corpus fimbriatum ; 6. Fornix. The Corpus Striatum (Fig. 257, 3) is a pyriform body with the greater end forward, and constitutes the superior ganglion of the cerebrum. It is grey upon the surface, but if cut into, will be found to have white fibres interspersed throughout the deeper portion (and hence the name), becoming grey again at the under surface. The two corpora striata are separated posteriorly by the two thalami. The Taenia Semicircularis (Fig. 257, 6) is a narrow band of white matter, which becomes slightly widened posteriorly, and connects the corpus striatum with the optic thalamus. The Thalamus (opticus) (Fig. 257, 7) is a white body, which will be better seen in a subsequent dissection. The Choroid Plexus (Fig. 257, 8) is a vascular fringe lying upon the surface of the thalamus, and continued into the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. It will subsequently be seen to be the edge of a process of pia mater (velum interpositum), which lies beneath the fornix. By drawing gently upon the choroid plexus of one side, it may be shown to be connected with that of the opposite side through the foramen of Monro (5), an opening beneath the fornix in the middle line. The Corpus Fimbriatum (Fig. 257, 9) is the thin edge of the fornix, which however does not present any fimbriae. [To see the fornix thoroughly, the remnant of the corpus callosum in the middle line should be cut through transversely about its centre, when the posterior part is to be carefully dissected away from the subjacent fornix.] The Fornix (Fig. 257, 10) is a thin white body placed beneath the corpus callosum in the middle line. Anteriorly it is divided into two anterior crura or pillars, which pass to the base of the brain to form the corpora albicantia, and will be afterwards seen. Posteriorly it is incorporated with the splenium of the corpus callosum, and gives off laterally the two posterior cornua, which are continuous With the corpus fimbriatum and hippocampus major. The fornix is separated from the corpus callosum in front by the septum lucidum. The lateral ventricles are separated from one another by the Septum Lucidum, a double layer of white cerebral matter, grey externally, containing the fifth ventricle, and extending between the anterior part of the corpus callosum and the fornix. It is deeper in front than behind (Fig. 263, 6). The Fifth Ventricle (Fig. 257, 2) can be shown by cutting