THE LUMBRICALES. 63 below the annular ligament, often containing numerous rice-like bodies. This tissue must he carefully dissected away. The Median Nerve (Fig. 17, 33) passes beneath the annular ligament superficially to the tendons, and divides into two trunks which subdivide into four digital nerves, to supply three and a half fingers. The first or outermost, after giving a small branch to supply some of the short muscles of the thumb, bifurcates into branches to supply the two sides of the palmar aspect of the thumb ; the second digital nerve supplies the radial side of the index-finger, after giving a small twig to the first lumbricalis muscle ; the third, after supply- ing the second lumbricalis, bifurcates near the root of the finger to supply the ulnar side of the index and the radial side of the middle fingers ; the fourth bifurcates to supply the ulnar side of the middle- finger and the radial side of the ring-finger, this last branch joining the branch from the ulnar nerve previously seen. The digital branches of each finger unite in the pulp of the terminal phalanx, and have Paccinian corpuscles developed on them like those of the ulnar nerve, and also give branches to the matrix of the nail. [The ulnar ar-tery is to be divided beyond the origin of the pro- funda and the arch turned down as far as possible, but the nerve may be left uncut. The median nerve is to be divided at the wrist and turned down, and the flexor tendons with the lumbricales muscles cleaned and traced to their insertions. The sheaths of the flexor tendons have been already described (p. 43), but at least one more should be laid open in order that the tendons may be well seen.] The Tendons of the Flexor Sublimis, four in number, pass beneath the annular ligament and lie immediately beneath the median nerve in the palm. Each tendon becomes somewhat flattened, and on the first phalanx splits into two portions, which are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx, giving passage to the tendons of the flexor profundus between them. The vincula accessoria or syno- vial slips which unite the tendons to the sheath (ligamenta longa), and also the short elastic bands (ligamenta brevia) connecting each tendon with the front of the first phalanx, should be observed. The Tendons of the Flexor Profundus (Fig. 25, 8), also four in number, lie beneath the corresponding superficial tendons, which they perforate over the first phalanges ; they then pass on to be inserted into the bases of the third phalanges. Each pair of tendons is lubricated by a synovial sheath, that of the little finger (together with that of the flexor of the thumb) com- municating with the general synovial cavity beneath the annular ligament already described.