388 THE PHARYNX. 3. Pharyngeal branches, •which assist in forming the pharyngeal plexus. 4. Tonsillitic branches to the tonsils ancl the soft palate. 5. Lingual branches. [By cautiously cutting away the temporal bone with the bone- forceps, the dissector may, in a favourable subject, see some of the branches of Jacobson’s nerve.] The Typipanic branch of the glosso-pharyngecil nerve (Jacobson’s nerve) (Fig. 204, 9) arises from the petrous ganglion, and enters an aperture in the ridge of bone between the carotid foramen and the jugular fossa. It pierces the floor of the tympanum and grooves the promontory on its inner wall, giving branches to the fenestra ovalis (12), the fenestra rotunda (13), and the lining membrane of the tym- panum and Eustachian tube (11). The communicating branches of Jacobson’s nerve are three in number; one joining the carotid plexus in the carotid canal (10); the second joining the great superficial petrosal nerve (15); and the third running through the temporal bone to end in the otic ganglion as the small superficial petrosal nerve of Arnold (14). (,See also Fig. 212.) Opportunity may be taken at this point to examine the ossicles of the tympanum (p. 407). The Pharyngeal Plexus (Figs. 203 and 204) is to be found upon the middle and inferior constrictors of the pharynx, both of which it supplies. The branches forming the plexus are derived from the nerves which have been examined, viz., the glosso-pharyn- geal, the pneumo-gastric (pharyngeal and superior laryngeal branches), and the sympathetic. [In all probability the carotid canal in the temporal bone will have been opened on one side in making the section of the skull, but if not, this may now be done with the bone-forceps.] The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 203) has been already seen from the front in the dissection of the neck, and is now seen from behind. It ascends by the side of the pharynx, being separated from it, however, by the ascending pharyngeal branch of the external carotid artery. Behind the artery is the trunk of the sympathetic, and crossing its posterior aspect is the superior laryngeal nerve of the pneumo-gastric. In front of it is the styloid process with the stylo-pharyngeus muscle, and the glosso-pharyngeal nerve; and to the outer side the pneumo-gastric nerve with the jugular vein. The danger of the close proximity of the carotid to the pharynx has been