138 SOLE OF THE FOOT. interossei. The accessorius is supplied by the external plantar nerve ; tlie two inner lumbricales by the internal plantar, and the two outer lumbricales by the external plantar nerve. The tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis (Fig. 70, 4) after lying in the groove below the lesser process of the os calcis, runs forward to the great toe, lying beneath the plantar vessels and nerves, and being crossed by the tendon of the flexor digitorum, to which it is connected by a few fibres. The tendon lies between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis and then enters a sheath, in which it is enclosed until its insertion into the base of the terminal phalanx of the great toe. [The long tendons and the accessorius muscle are to be cut about the middle of the foot and turned down, when the muscles of the third layer are to be cleaned.] The Third Layer of Muscles consists of the flexor brevis pollicis, adductor pollicis, flexor brevis minimi digiti, and transversus pedis. The Flexor Brevis Pollicis (Fig. 70, 5) arises by a narrow tendinous origin from the under surface of the external cuneiform bone and adjacent surface of the cuboid, and is connected with the insertion of the tibialis posticus. Its fibres form two heads, which diverge from each other and separate near the head of the metatarsal bone, to be inserted into opposite sides of the base of the first phalanx of the great toe with the abductor and adductor respectively. Each head has a sesamoid bone developed in its tendon, entering into the formation of the metatarso-phalangeal joint, which must be opened to see them distinctly. The tendon of the long flexor lies between the two heads of this muscle. Fig. 70. Fig. 70.—Third and part of the second layer of muscles of the sole of the foot (from Wilson). 1. Divided edge of the plantar fascia. 2. Museulus accessorius. 3. Tendon of the flexor longus digi- torum. 4. Tendon of the flexor longus pol- licis. 5. Flexor hrevis pollicis. 6. Adductor pollicis. 7. Flexor brevis minimi digiti. 8. Transversus pedis. 9. Interossei muscles, plantar and dorsal. 10. Sheatli of the tendon of the pero- neus longus.