22 FRONT OR THE UPPER ARM. musculo-spiraVnerve (7), the upper and smaller one running along the cephalic vein to the upper part of the front of the fore-arm; the lower passing to the hack of the fore-arm. Close to the deltoid may he found one or two cutaneous branches of the circumflex nerve (3). The deep fascia of the arm is sufficiently seen in following the superficial vessels and nerves. It is continuous with the fascia of the axilla and fore-arm, and is attached to ridges above the condyles of the humerus, forming the external and internal intermuscular septa, which give attachment to muscular fibres. The internal is the stronger, and is pierced by the ulnar nerve and the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna arteries. The external is pierced by the musculo-spiral nerve and superior profunda artery. [The muscles of the front of the arm are now to be cleaned together with the vessels and nerves, but the fascia on the upper part of the muscles of the fore-arm need not be disturbed.] The Biceps (Fig. 6, 7) is the superficial muscle of the upper arm, and arises by two heads which generally unite in the upper third of the arm, but occasionally remain distinct nearly to their insertion. The long or outer head cannot be fully traced at present, since it arises within the capsular ligament of the shoulder-joint from the top of the glenoid cavity, and also from the glenoid ligament. Traversing the joint and enclosed in a tube of synovial membrane, the tendon enters the bicipital groove of the humerus, and is seen to emerge from the capsular ligament and lie upon the tendon of the latissimus, and between the insertions of the pectoralis major and teres major muscles. The short or inner head arises from the coracoid process of the scapula, in common with, but to the outer side of, the coraco- bracliialis, and the two heads unite to form a large fleshy belly. The fibres converge to a broad tendon, from which, immediately above the elbow-joint, an expansion, called the bicipital or semilunar fascia, is given off to join the fascia on the upper and inner part of the fore-arm (Fig. 8, 16). This must be divided in order to follow the tendon of the biceps, which passes deeply to be inserted into the back of the bicipital tubercle of the radius, a bursa being placed between the tendon and the upper smooth surface of the tubercle. The tendon becomes flattened near its insertion, and is twisted so that its outer edge becomes anterior. The action of the biceps is to supinate the fore-arm, and then flex it upon the upper arm (as in drawing a cork), being a good example of force applied to a lever of the third order. Its action as an abductor of the upper arm is very slight. The Coraco-brachialis (Fig. .6, 6) arises from the tip of the