358 THE FACE. branches, forming a plexus with the facial nerve ; (2) as the ramus subcutaneus make (14) appearing through the malar bone after pierc- ing the outer wall of the orbit; and (3) as the temporal branch of the orbital nerve (10) piercing the temporal fascia immediately above the zygoma and already dissected (v. p. 294). The Third or Inferior Maxillary Division (Fig. 188) ap- pears (1) as the mental nerve (32) at the mental foramen, and is to be traced to the chin and lower lip ; (2) as the buccal nerve (26) upon the surface of the buccinator muscle, where it will be found lying beneath, but communicating with, the facial nerve ; and (3) as the auriculo-temporal nerve (3) piercing the parotid gland and running upwards over the zygoma immediately in front of the ear. These are all purely sensory nerves (with the exception, perhaps, of the buccal nerve, which is supposed to be of a mixed character). They all join freely with the facial nerve, and supply sensation to the whole of the skin of the face, except that covering the parotid gland, which is supplied by the great auricular nerve of the cervical plexus, hence called auriculo-parotidean. [The anatomy of the eyelids and of the nasal cartilages can be examined on either side of the face by removing the superjacent tissues.] The Eyelids (Fig. 182).—On removing the thin palpebral fibres of the orbicularis from the lids, a piece of thin fibrous tissue will be seen extending from the margin of the orbit to the lid, which is called the palpebral ligament. It is continuous with the periosteum of the skull at the margin of the orbit, and is attached to the edge of the tarsal cartilage in each lid. The tarsal cartilage is larger in the upper than the lower lid, being semilunar in shape in the former, and nearly straight in the latter. Each is attached externally by a little tarsal ligament to the margin of the orbit, whilst internally the tendo oculi divides to be attached to both cartilages, and thus holds them in posi- tion. The fibres of the orbicularis must be cut away from the tendo oculi to show it thoroughly, and it will be seen to be attached to the nasal process of the superior maxilla immediately in front of the groove for the lachrymal sac. Beneath the palpebral ligament, in the upper lid, will be found the expansion of the tendon of the levator palpebrse superioris attached to the tarsal cartilage. Both lids are lined with conjunctiva, on removing which the Meibomian glands may be seen to groove the cartilages.