142 FRONT OF THE LEG AND FOOT. Fig 72. the tendons of the peroneus longus and brevis in one sheath. The muscles, vessels, and nerves are to be cleaned. The Extensor Muscles (Fig. 72) are tibialis anticus to the inner side ; the extensor longus digitorum with an extra slip (the peroneus tertius) to the outer side ; and between the two, the extensor proprius pollicis appearing about the middle of the leg. The Tibialis Anticus(Fig. 72,3)arises from the upper two-thirds of the outer surface of the shaft of the tibia and from its outer tuberosity ; from the inner half of the interosseous ligament for the same distance; and from the fascia covering the muscle. The fibres end in a broad tendon, which becomes narrower near the ankle and passes through the most inter- nal division of the annular ligament, to be inserted into the under surface of the internal cuneiform bone and the base of the metatarsal bone of the great toe. The tibialis anticus is a flexor of the foot and draws up its inner side. It is one of the tendons which helps to produce the form of club-foot called ‘ talipes varus.’ It is supplied by the anterior tibial nerve. The Extensor Longus Digitorum (Fig. 72, 4) arises from the upper three- fourths of the anterior surface of the fibula (see note, p. 126), and for about an inch from the adjacent interosseous mem- brane ; from the outer tuberosity of the tibia close to the tibialis anticus ; from the fascia upon the upper part of the muscle ; and from the inter- Fig. 72.—Muscles of the front of the leg (from Wilson). 1. Quadriceps extensor inserted into the patella. 2. Subcutaneous surface of the tibia. 3. Tibialis anticus. 4. Extensor longus digitorum. 5. Extensor proprius pollicis. 6. Peroneus tertius. 7. Peroneus longus. 8. Peroneus brevis. 9, 9. Borders of the soleus muscle. 10. Part of the inner belly of the gas- trocnemius. 11. Extensor brevis digitorum; the tendon in front of the figure is that of the peroneus tertius; that behind it, the peroneus brevis.