SCAPULAR MUSCLES. S3 supraspinous fossa, and also to part of the infraspinous fossa, by a branch which winds in front of the spine and anastomoses with the dorsalis scapuke artery. The Suprascapular Nerve (from the 5th and 6th nerves of the brachial plexus) (Fig. 10, i) passes through the suprascapular notch and beneath the ligament, and is distributed to the supra- and infra- spinatus muscles. The Omo-hyoid Muscle arises from about half an inch of the superior border of the scapula immediately behind the suprascapular notch, and from the transverse or posterior ligament over it. Its relations and insertion are seen in the dissection of the neck. [The limb is to be turned over and the humerus rotated outwards to put the fibres of the subscapularis on the stretch; they should then be cleaned, care being taken of the subscapular nerves entering the muscle. The axillary vessels and nerves should be tied to the coracoid process, so as to bring them as nearly as may be into their proper positions.] The Subscapularis Muscle (Fig. 6, 4) is covered in by a thin fascia, and has been already seen to form part of the posterior wall of the axilla. It arises from the whole of the venter scapulae except the part to which the serratus magnus is attached and the portion nearest the neck of the bone, and has several tendinous septa between its fibres which are attached to the ridges on the surface of the bone. It is inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus and the bone below it for an inch, and into the capsular ligament of the shoulder- joint, a large bursa intervening, which not unfrequently communicates with the cavity of the joint. The subscapularis is an internal rotator and adductor of the humerus, and is supplied by the short subscapular nerves. The most important action of the supra- and infra-spinatus, teres minor, and subscapularis muscles is their combination to keep the head of the humerus in its proper relation to the glenoid cavity, and thus prevent dislocation. In the post-mortem relaxed condition of the parts, the head of the humerus can be drawn away from the glenoid cavity to the full extent of the loose capsular ligament. 'The Subscapular Nerves (Fig. 4) are branches of the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and are three in number. The long subscapular nerve has been already seen in the axilla, and can still be traced to the latissimus dorsi ; the short subscapular nerves (upper and lower) are now to be followed, the upper to the subscapularis muscle, the lower to give a branch to the subscapularis and supply the teres major. D