GG PALM OF THE HAND. point, sending slips forward to join the tendon of the extensor secundi internodii pollicis on the hack of the first phalanx (Fig. 26). In this way, according to Duclienne, the small muscles of the thumb (with the exception of the opponens) extend the second phalanx whilst acting upon the first phalanx in the directions implied by their several names. Fig. 26. The Adductor Pollicis (Fig. 25, 6) arises from the anterior surface of the lower two-thirds of the shaft of the middle metacarpal bone, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb with one part of the flexor brevis, the muscle forming a triangle with its base to the ulnar side. The muscle necessarily covers the muscles in the first and second interosseous spaces (wliich may be seen in part at its anterior border), and will have to be divided subsequently to expose them thoroughly. The Deep Branch of the TJlnar Nerve (Fig. 17, 22) is to be traced out, and will be round to arise from the ulnar trunk near the pisiform bone, and to pass between the flexor brevis and the abductor minimi digiti, giving branches to them and the opponens. It then forms an arch across the bases of the metacarpal bones, accompany- ing the deep palmar arch, and supplying the two innermost lumbri- cales muscles and the seven interossei muscles (palmar and dorsal) ; and ends by supplying the adductor and the inner half of the flexor brevis pollicis.* * It may assist the student in remembering the distribution of the ulnar nerve if he notices how it is governed by the number 1|; thus, the neiwe sup- plies one and a half muscles in the fore-arm; gives branches to one and a half lingers on both palmar and dorsal aspects; and lastly, supplies one and a half muscles of the thumb. Fig. 26.—Insertion of muscles of thumb (from Duchenne). a. Abductor pollicis. e. Tendinous expansion of flexor b. Opponens pollicis. brevis joining tendon of exten- c. Outer head of flexor brevis. sor secundi internodii. d. Tendon of extensor secundi inter- nodii.