PARTS ABOUT THE SCAPULA. 32 whole length, from the fascia covering the muscle, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the infra-spinatus and teres major muscles. It is inserted into the lowest facet on the great tuberosity of the humerus and for nearly an inch below it, and also ' into the capsular ligament of the shoulder. The teres minor is sup- plied by a special branch of the circumflex nerve which should be followed to it, and which is remarkable for having a gangliform enlargement upon it. The supra-spinatus is a feeble abductor, and the infra-spinatus and teres minor muscles are external rotators of the humerus. The Teres Major Muscle (Fig. 10, 7) arises from the triangular surface at the inferior angle of the scapula, and from the intermus- cular septa between it and the teres minor and infra-spinatus muscles. Its close relation to the latissimus dorsi has been already noticed, but its insertion into the inner lip of the bicipital groove should be again clearly seen. The teres major is supplied by one of the subscap- ular nerves, and is an internal rotator and adductor of the humerus. The Posterior Circumflex Artery (Fig. 10, 4) with its veins, and the Circumflex Nerve (Fig. 10, 2), appear through the quadri- lateral space, and are distributed to the under surface of the deltoid muscle, giving branches to the shoulder-joint; the nerve also supplies the teres minor muscle with a branch (on which may be found a gangliform enlargement) and gives a branch or two to the skin of the shoulder. The posterior circumflex artery not unfrequently arises from, or in common with the superior profunda, in which case, it is below instead of above the teres major. The Dorsalis Scapulae Artery (dorsal branch of subscapular) (Fig. 10, 11), does not pass through the triangular space as seen from behind, but winds beneath the teres minor in a groove on the inferior costa of the scapula, to supply the infraspinous fossa and anastomose with the other scapular arteries. It gives off the infrascapular artery, which will be afterwards traced beneath the subscapularis, and a superficial branch, which runs between the teres major and minor and down to the angle of the scapula, to anastomose with the sub- scapular and posterior scapular arteries. [The supra-spinatus is to be divided near its insertion, and the fibres cleared out of the supraspinal fossa in order to see the suprascapular artery and nerve and the origin of the omo-hyoid muscle.] The Suprascapular Artery (from the thyroid axis) passes over the transverse ligament of the scapula, and is distributed both to the