203 FASCIA TRANSVERSALIS. iliac arteries, which comes into play after ligature of the external or common iliacs, or obstruction of the descending aorta. The nerves piercing the rectus are the terminations of the lower intercostal nerves, which pass through it and the sheath to reach the skin (Fig. 94). The Fascia Transversalis is the membrane lining the trans- versalis muscle, and is continuous wutli the fascia iliaca covering the iliacus muscle. It varies in appearance, being usually thin and transparent, but in fat subjects becoming thickened and united with the sub-peritoneal layer of adipose tissue. Midway between the anterior superior iliac spine and the symphysis pubis, and half an inch above Poupart’s ligament in the fascia transversalis, is the internal abdominal ring, through which the spermatic cord of the male and round ligament of the female reach the groin, receiving in their passage a covering from the fascia transversalis (infundi- bular fascia). Beneath the middle of Poupart’s ligament the fascia transversalis passes upon the external iliac vessels to join the iliac fascia in forming the sheath of the femoral vessels (p. 87), and a few thickened fibres lying beneath Poupart’s ligament form the deep crural arch. Action of the Abdominal Muscles.—The abdominal muscles compress the viscera when put in action, and thus act as muscles of expiration, and in direct opposition to the diaphragm. The attach- ment of the muscles to the lower ribs enables them at the same time to depress the wall of the thorax, thus assisting the internal inter- costal muscles. The abdominal muscles are called into play chiefly in violent expiratory efforts, such as coughing, sneezing, etc., and have a most important action upon the viscera during the acts of mictm’ition, defsecation, vomiting, and parturition. The rectus abdominis has the power of approximating the pelvis and thorax, as seen in rising from the supine position without the aid of the hands, or in climbing. When spasmodically contracted in tetanus, it pro- duces the bowed condition of the trunk known as emprosthotonos. The abdominal muscles are supplied by the lower six intercostal nerves, and by the ilio-hypogastric and ilio-inguinal branches of the first lumbar nerve (Fig. 94). The abdominal wall having been finished on both sides, the dissectors should cut through the remains of the abdominal muscles in two or three places until the peritoneum is exposed, but without injuring the latter, in order to study the appearance of the mem- brane which forms the sac of a hernia. They should then open the abdomen and dissect the viscera together.