SIDE OF THE NECK. 330 tone beneath the omo-hyoid. A small special branch of nerve from the 9th should be traced to this muscle. The Omo-hyoid (Fig. 176, 17) can now be seen in its whole length, crossing the neck beneath the stemo-mastoid, and consisting of two bellies united by a small tendon, which has been seen to be held down to the clavicle and first rib by a process of the deep cer- vical fascia (v. p. 310). It arises from the upper margin of the scapula close to the notch, and from the transverse ligament which converts the supra-scapular notch into a hole. It is inserted into the body of the hyoid bone external to the sterno-liyoid, and superficial to the tliyro-hyoid muscle. These four muscles are direct or indirect depressors of the hyoid bone. They are all supplied by the descendens noni nerve, except the thyro-liyoid, which receives a special branch from the 9th nerve. The Digastric (Fig. 176, 1) muscle consists of two portions, placed in front of and behind the submaxillary gland above the hyoid bone, to which the intermediate tendon is attached. It arises from the groove on the inner side of the mastoid process of the tem- poral bone ; and is inserted into the digastric fossa at the lower border of the inferior maxilla close to the median line. Its action is to open the mouth, or if the jaw is fixed, to raise the hyoid bone and larynx. Its posterior belly is supplied by a branch of the facial nerve, and the anterior by the mylo-kyoid branch of the inferior dental nerve (5th). The Stylo-hyoid (Fig. 176,4) is the muscle in immediate connec- tion with the posterior belly of the digastric, the tendon of which passes through the fibres of the stylo-hyoid close to the hyoid bone. It arises from the outer or posterior part of the styloid process of the temporal bone between the stylo-pharyngeus and stylo-glossus muscles ; and is inserted into the upper surface of the body of the hyoid bone. It is supplied by a branch of the facial nerve. [The sheath of the carotid artery derived from the cervical fascia is now to be opened. The descendens noni nerve has already been traced upon it, and within will now be found the common carotid artery nearest the median line ; external to that the pneumo-gastric (or vagus) nerve, and still more externally the internal jugular vein. Behind the sheath will be found the trunk of the sympathetic nerve lying parallel with the vessels, and crossing transversely behind them at the lower part will be seen the inferior thyroid artery. The sheath is to be carefully dissected away, and the branches of the artery and vein followed out and cleaned as far as the dissection will admit of. The large 9th nerve will be found crossing the external and internal carotids in a curved direction immediately below the di-