THE GLUTEUS MAXIMUS AND PARTS BENEATH. 107 Fig. 51. 1! [The gluteus is to he divided near its origin and turned down, when its attachment to the sacro-sciatic ligament above and the fascia below will be better seen. Some branches of the superlicial gluteal artery at the upper, and of the sciatic at the lower part of the muscle must necessarily be divided, but the nerves going to its under sur- face from the small sciatic should be preserved if possible.] Three bursce will be found in connection with the gluteus maximus ; one between its fascia and the great trochanter ; a second between the fascia and the vastus externus ; and the third over the tuberosity of the is- chium, which is remarkable for its change of relation to the muscle ; since when the body is in the erect posture the muscle covers the tuber and its bursa, but when in the sitting posture, the muscle slips back and the bursa becomes subcutaneous. The Parts beneath the Gluteus Maxi- mus (Fig. 52) can now be seen, although covered by loose cellular tissue which is to be afterwards removed. They are from above downwards 1, gluteus medius ; 2, super- ficial gluteal vessels ; 3, pyriformis muscle ; 4, sciatic vessels and nerves (great and small); 5, pudic vessels and nerve, and nerve to obturator internus ; 6, tendon of the obturator internus with the gemelli muscles above and below it; 7, tendon of the obturator externus ; 8, cpiadratus femoris and upper border of adductor magnus ; 9, great sacro-sciatic liga- ment ; 10, tuber ischii and muscles attached to it. [These structures are to be cleaned as far as possible at once, and Fig. 51.—Muscles of the posterior femoral and gluteal region (from Wilson). 1. Gluteus medius. 7. Semi-membranosus. 2. Gluteus maximus. 8. Gracilis. 3. Vastus externus covered in by 9. Part of the inner border of the fascia lata. adductor magnus. 4. Long head of biceps. 10. Edge of sartorius. 5. Short head of biceps. 11. Popliteal space. 6. Semi-tendinosus. 12. Gastrocnemius; its two heads.