THE MUSCLES OF THE PINNA. 293 The crico-thyroid membrane and the trachea should be especially noticed as the positions in which laryngotomy and tracheotomy are performed. The clavicle and sternum bound the dissection below, and across the side of the neck the prominence of the sterno-mastoid marks the division into anterior and posterior triangles ; in an injected body the carotid artery may be felt near the middle of the anterior border of this muscle. The external jugular vein, if full of blood, will probably be seen crossing the sterno-mastoid obliquely, and may be opened secundum artem by an incision parallel to the muscle. It will be found to be impossible to dissect both sides of the head and neck simultaneously, and the students should therefore arrange to work together, and to take turns at dissecting and reading. The dissection of both sides of the scalp should be completed on the first day, in order that the brain may be removed on the second morning. The Scalp. [The head being shaved and raised on a block, one incision is to be carried from the root of the nose to the occiput, and another at right angles to it from the front of the ear across the head to the corresponding point on the opposite side, and the flaps thus marked out are to be dissected by beginning at the top of the head. Great care must be taken to remove only the skin and not the subcutaneous tissues, which are very thin ; the best guides are the roots of the hair, which should be exposed on the under surface of the flaps. The flaps having been turned down to the level of the brow in front, and the occipital protuberance behind, the dissector may, if he choose, attempt to define the small muscles of the external ear, which are seldom well developed.] The Muscles of the Pinna (Fig. 159) are the Attollens aurem (5) (superior), the Attrahens aurem (1) (anterior), and the Retrahens aurem (9) (posterior). The names sufficiently indicate their positions, and they are all inserted into the pinna, the anterior arising from the anterior part of the aponeurosis of the occipito-frontalis, and being inserted into the helix ; the superior also from the middle part of the same aponeurosis, and inserted into the back of the pinna ; and the posterior from the mastoid process to the back of the concha. [The muscular fibres of the occipito-frontalis are to be cleaned both on the forehead and on the occiput, care being taken not to damage the intervening aponeurosis, or the nerves which pierce the muscle at several points.] The Occipito-frontalis (Fig. 159).—The anterior belly (2) has no bony attachment, but takes its origin from the fibres of the orbicularis