298 REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. the surface of the brain to he partially seen. On each side of the middle line will he seen the glandules Pacchionii, which are fibrous growths from the pia mater, and frequently project through the dura mater and indent the skull. Ramifying upon the dura mater will he found the large middle meningeal artery [internal maxillary], and in a well injected body the anterior meningeal [ethmoidal] may some- times he seen. The Superior Longitudinal Sinus (Fig. 160, i) should be opened at once. It runs along the middle line of the head, and will he seen to he triangular in section, being formed by a splitting of the dura mater and lined with venous endothelium. It commences in a small vein which enters the skull from the nose through the foramen caecum, and, running along the whole length of the upper border of the falx cerebri, it ends in the torcular Herophili. Within the sinus may he seen some small tendinous cords—chorda Willisii, and also the orifices of the veins opening into it, which all pass from behind forwards, i.e., contrary to the current of blood in the sinus itself. [The dura mater is to be divided longitudinally on each side of the sinus and turned down. By this the cavity of the arachnoid will be opened, and one layer of that serous membrane will be seen to line the dura mater, whilst the other is reflected upon the pia mater •covering the brain. By slightly separating the two hemispheres of the brain with the handle of the knife, the falx cerebri will be seen, and must be detached from the crista galli of the ethmoid bone.] Removal of the Brain.—The head being tilted a little back- wards, the anterior lobes of the cerebrum are to be raised, when the Olfactory nerves and bulbs (1st pair) will probably be detached from the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone with them, or if not, they can be readily displaced with the handle of the knife. The Optic nerves (2nd pair) of large size, will be seen close to the anterior clinoid processes, and should be divided, when the Internal Carotid Arteries will be brought into view, and must also be cut, together with the infundibulum attached to the 'pituitary body in the middle line. The 3rd pair (motores oculorum) will be seen piercing the dura mater behind and a little external to the carotid arteries, and after dividing these, the tentorium cerebelli will be brought into view with the 4tli nerve (patheticus vel trochlearis) just at its edge. The tentorium is to be divided on each side by carrying the knife parallel to the margin of the petrous bone, and the 4th pair will be cut at the same time. The tentorium having been turned aside, the remaining cranial nerves will be exposed, and must be divided,