281 INTERIOR OF THE URETHRA. blind poucli directed backwards, just within which are placed the orifices of the common ejaculatory duct.* The Membranous portion (a) is the shortest and narrowest division of the urethra, and being placed between the two layers of the trian- gular ligament which meet below, its upper wall is somewhat longer than its floor, the former measuring about § inch, and the latter £ inch (Thompson). The wall of this portion is thin and membra- nous, but it will be seen to be enclosed by circular involuntary fibres continuous with the circular fibres of the bladder and prostate. The mucous membrane is smooth, and presents no orifices ; it is fre- quently stained of a red colour. The Bulbous portion (d) is the part cor- responding to the bulb externally, and is about an inch long, but there is no line of demarcation between it and the spongy portion. The canal is dilated at this spot, and in the floor of it are the two minute orifices of the ducts of Cowper’s glands, which run obliquely through the wall of the urethra for some distance. The cut edge of the bulb will be seen to be con- tinuous with the corpus spongiosum, which surrounds the spongy or * The position of the sinus pocularis is given differ enty by various authors ; thus Quain, Gray and Wilson place it on the anterior, and Cruveilhier and Ellis on the posterior, part of the verumontanum. The discrepancy arises from slight variations in the shape and extent of the ridge. Fig. 153.—The bulbous, membranous, and prostatic urethra, with part of the bladder, laid open from above (from Wilson). 1. Part of the urinary bladder: its internal surface. 2. Trigonum vesicse. 3. Openings of the ureters. 4. U vula vesicae. 5. Veru montanum. 6. Opening of the sinus pocularis. 7,7. Apertures of the ejaculatory ducts. 8, 8. Openings of the prostatic ducts in the prostatic sinus. 9, 9. Lateral lobes of the prostate gland. a, Membranous portion of the urethra. b, b. Cowper’s glands. c, c. Apertures of the excretory ducts of Cowper’s glands. cl. Commencement of the bulbous por- tion of the urethra. e, e. Upper surface of the bulb of the corpus spongiosum. /, /. Crura penis. g, g. Corpus cavernosum. h. Spongy portion of the urethra.