THE INTERVERTEBRAL SUBSTANCE. 419 vertebral substances ; and it is broader in tbe lumbar than in the cervical region. [To see the posterior common ligament it 'will be necessary to remove the spinal cord, if this has not been already done, as follows : the saw is to be applied over the pedicles of, say, six dorsal vertebra), and these being divided on each side, the remains of the spinal cord can be removed, when the posterior ligament will be seen on the backs of the bodies of the vertebrae ; and the ligamenta subflava can be dissected upon the vertebral arches which have been removed.] The Posterior Common Ligament (Fig. 219, 3) is found upon the posterior aspect of the bodies of the vertebra; from the axis to the sacrum. It is remarkable in being broad opposite the intervertebral substances, with which it is closely connected, and narrow oppo- site the bodies of the vertebrae, over which it stretches to allow of the passage of vessels to the bone. It is broader in the cervical than ir the lumbar region, but thickest in the dorsal region, and is composed of superficial and deep fibres like the anterior ligament. The Intervertebral Substance (Fig. 219, 1) is found between the bodies of all the vertebrae from the axis to the sacrum, and is largest in the lumbar region. Each substance is composed of fibrous tissue and fibro-cartilage externally, but has a soft elastic material in the centre. The substances vary according to the curves of the spinal column, being deepest in front in the cervical and lumbar regions and the reverse in the dorsal region. On dissecting the superficial fibres of an intervertebral substance they will be found to pass obliquely between the adjacent vertebra;, alternate layers taking opposite directions. By cutting through the attachment to one of the vertebrae with a strong knife, the pulpy material in the centre will be shown, and will expand considerably above the level of the fibro-cartilaginous rings around it. On making a vertical section of two or more vertebrae with their intervertebral substances, the structure of the intervertebral sub- Fig. 219.—Posterior ligament of the vertebrae (from Wilson). 1, 1. Intervertebral substances. 3. Posterior common ligament. 2. Pedicles of vertebras sawn through. E E 2