ABDOMINAL CONTENTS. 207 gastric region, with its greater or left end reaching into the left hypo- chondrinm. By drawing this end out from beneath the ribs, the spleen will be found attached to it, and will also frequently be found to be bound firmly to the diaphragm by old inflammatory adhesions. Tracing the stomach to the right side it will be found to terminate in the small intestine (duodenum), and the point of demarcation between the organs is marked by a thickened band of fibres, the pylorus. The duodenum can be traced for a short distance only at present. By drawing up the great omentum the transverse colon will be exposed crossing the umbilical region, and continuous on the right side with the ascending colon, and on the left with the descending colon, which should be traced out. Occupying the hypogastric region are the coils of the small intestine, two-fifths of which constitute the jejunum, and the remainder the ileum ; this may be seen to end in the large intestine in the right iliac fossa, where the commencement of the colon (caput caecum coli, or caecum) will be recognised by its little appendage, the appendix vermiformis. In the left iliac region will be seen the tortuous portion of the large intestine, called the sigmoid flexure, wdiich may be traced to its termination in the rectum at the brim of the true pelvis. TABLE OF ABDOMINAL CONTENTS. Right Hypochondriac Region. Bight lobe of liver and gall-bladder, 1st part of duodenum,hepatic flexure of colon, right supra-renal j capsule, and part of right' kidney. Right Lumbar Region. Ascending colon, small j intestine, 2nd part of duo- denum, head of pancreas,! right kidney. Right Iliac Region. Ca;cum coli, ureter, spermatic vessels. Epigastric Region. Stomach (centre and pylorus), left lobe of liver, cselic axis, abdominal aorta, vena cava, semi- lunar ganglia, receptacu- lum chyll, and vena Umbilical Region. Great omentum, trans- verse colon, 3rd portion of duodenum, body of pancreas. Hypogastric Region. Small intestines, apex of bladder in distension and in children. Preg- nant uterus. Left Hypochondriac Region. Stomach (cardiac end), spleen and tail of pan- creas, splenic flexure of colon, left supra-renal capsule, and part of left kidney. Left Lumbar Region. Descending colon, small intestine, left kidney. Left Iliac Region. Sigmoid colon, ureter, spermatic vessels. positions cannot be seen The above table of necessity includes organs whose at present, and will be subsequently studied.