THE BUTTOCK. 105 fibres pass with different degrees of obliquity to be inserted into the back of the femur immediately below the quadratus femoris, into the whole length of the linea aspera, and a small portion of its inner division. The lower fibres, forming an almost distinct muscle, end in a round tendon which is inserted into the tubercle above the inner condyle of the femur, and, by means of an expansion, into the lower part of the line leading to it. It is this tendon which bounds the “ opening in the adductor magnus.” The muscle is supplied by the obturator nerve, and also by the great sciatic. Above the upper border of the adductor magnus a portion of the Obturator Externus can be seen. It arises from the margin ot the anterior half of the obturator foramen, and from the corresponding portion of the outer surface of the obturator membrane. The fibres are directed backwards, and end in a tendon which passes in a groove below the acetabulum, to be inserted into the digital fossa of the femur, as will be seen in the dissection of the buttock. The obturator externus is an external rotator of the thigh and is supplied by the obturator nerve. The obturator artery is best seen after the removal of the thigh from the pelvis, in the dissection of which it is included. The Buttock. [The body being turned on its face, the buttocks are to be raised by blocks beneath the pelvis until the thigh can be well Hexed with the knee on the table, or, if preferred, the legs may be allowed to hang over the end of the table.] The dissector should recognise the crest of the ilium, which will bound his dissection superiorly, also the sacrum and coccyx, and the tuberosity of the ischium, which can be felt through the gluteus maximus. The relation of the trochanter to the several parts of the pelvis in the different positions of the limb is to be noted also, as being of great practical importance in the diagnosis of fractures and dislocations. The “fold of the buttock” formed by the lower border of the gluteus maximus will be seen when the muscle is stretched by rotating the thigh inwards, but will vary according to the muscular development of the subject. The prominences of the inner and outer hamstrings and the hollow of the ham will be readily seen, and it should be noted how much deeper the space appears when the knee is flexed, and how readily, under these circumstances, the popliteal vessels can be felt, owing to the relaxation of the fascia. [An incision is to be made along the crest of the ilium and down