INGUINAL HERNIA. 200 being formed by the tunica vaginalis and one by the peritoneal sac (Fig. 104). Surgery.—Operation for Strangulated Hernia.-—In this operation the object is to reach and divide any tissue which presses upon tin- bowel and prevents its return within the abdomen. An incision is made over the external ring, and the surgeon dissects carefully down through the several layers (which are never distinctly separable in practice) until he reaches the peritoneal sac, which is recognised by its bluish appearance. Passing the forefinger carefully around this he feels for the stricture, which may possibly be at the external ring (where it is easily divided), or more probably within the inguinal canal. Hating discovered the stricture, he next passes the hernia- knife along the finger, and, using it or a director as a guide, insinuates the knife, held flat, beneath the stricture, and divides it by bringing the edge of the knife upwards and pressing it against the tissues with the finger. The direction in which the superficial incision is made is of little consequence, but in the deep incision the rule is to cut directly upwards, so as to be parallel to the epigastric artery; for since a mistake in the diagnosis between an external and an internal hernia may occur, owing to the parts becoming distorted and the abdominal rings drawn together in old-standing hem ire, it is well to be careful lest the artery should be divided. Radical Cure of Hernia.—Various operations have been suggested for the cure of rupture by obliterating the inguinal canal, of which the principal are WurtzePs and Wood’s. Wurtzer’s operation con- sisted in the invagination of the skin of the scrotum, which was fastened into the inguinal canal by a plug of wood, from which a needle passed transfixing the front wall of the canal. Inflammation was thus excited, and the portion of skin remained in situ for a time, effectually plugging up the canal, but was found to descend almost nvariably after any exertion, and the operation has therefore been generally abandoned. Wood’s operation consists essentially in closing the lower part of the inguinal canal and external abdominal ring, either with or with- out the invagination of a piece of fascia. The left forefinger being passed beneath the margin of the conjoined tendon, a needle is thrust through the tendon and afterwards through the internal and external pillars of the ring, and these three points are drawn together, thus occluding the canal.* * For full particulars of the modifications of this operation, the student is referred to Mr. Wood’s valuable work on Rupture.