SIDE OF THE NECK. 324 —the subcutaneus mnlce, which pierces the malar hone, and the temporal branch, which pierces the outer wall of the orbit to get between the two layers of the temporal fascia (p. 294). The Side of the Neck. [The head is to be drawn as far back as possible by means of a hook placed in the chin, and the side to be dissected (by preference the right side first) should be fully exposed by means of blocks placed beneath. Before beginning the dissection the student should pass his finger along the median line of the neck, and recognise the following points. The lower jaw, and from an inch and a half to two inches below it, the slight projection of the hyoid bone ; next a hollow, corresponding to the thyro-liyoid membrane, and below it the projecting angle of the thyroid cartilage (pomum Adaini), which is very small in women. About an inch below the pomum Adami is a dip corresponding to the crico-thyroid space, and this is especially to be noticed, as it is the space in which laryngotomy is performed. Below this will be felt the hard ring of the cricoid cartilage, and in a thin subject the rings of the trachea may be recognised lower down; sometimes also the isthmus of the thyroid body may be felt crossing the trachea at a variable point. An incision is to be made from the chin to the sternum, and the flap of skin is to be dissected up over the face. The platysma may be cleaned in the upper part of the space at once, and it will facilitate the operation if the part detached from the clavicle is held down with hooks.] The Platysma Myoides (Fig. 164, 6) is now seen to reach to the side of the lower jaw, where it is partially inserted. The muscle decussates in the median line with its fellow of the opposite side for a short distance close to the jaw, but at the lower part of the neck a large triangular interval exists between them. A few small branches of the superficial cervical nerve will be found piercing the muscle, and an anterior jugular vein may sometimes be seen through its fibres. [The platysma is to be carefully reflected like the skin, the super- ficial nerves are to be dissected out, and the sterno-mastoid cleaned by removing that part of the deep cervical fascia which forms the super- ficial layer of its sheath.] The Superficial Cervical Nerve (Fig. 164, 17), which is of small size, is seen to divide into two or three branches which supply the skin over the anterior triangle, the upper one communicating with branches of the facial nerve below the jaw. The Sterno-Cleido-Mastoid Muscle (Fig. 164, 28) arises by an