294 THE SCALP. palpebrarum and the pyramidalis nasi, and is also connected with the corrugator supercilii on the face. The 'posterior belly arises from the outer half or two-thirds of the superior curved line of the occi- pital bone, and very slightly from the mastoid process of the temporal bone. Both bellies are inserted into the broad tendinous aponeurosis which extends over the top of the skull. The aponeurosis of the two sides are continuous over the top of the head, and are freely movable upon loose areolar tissue which intervenes between them and the periosteum of the skull. The occipito-frontalis wrinkles the fore- head transversely and elevates the eyebrows ; it is supplied by the facial nerve. Cutaneous Vessels and Nerves (Fig. 159).—In front of the ear will be found branches of the three divisions of the 5th nerve and branches of the facial nerve, together with branches of the ophthalmic and temporal arteries. Behind the ear are, a branch of the facial (posterior auricular), two branches of the cervical plexus (great auricular and small occipital), and a posterior branch of the second cervical nerve (great occipital), together with the posterior auricular and occipital arteries. The Supra-orbital nerve (8) [first cliv. of 5th] will be most readily found by feeling for the supra-orbital notch, and then cutting through the occipito-frontalis at that spot. It turns round the margin of the orbit at this point, and divides into two branches (inner and outer), which soon pierce the occipito-frontalis and supply the skin. The Supra-trochlear nerve (6) [first div. of 5th] is a small nerve which leaves the orbit at its inner angle, and then supplies the fore- head by piercing the occipito-frontalis. The Supra-orbital artery [ophthalmic] accompanies the supra-orbital nerve, and also gives superficial branches to the surface of the oc- cipito-frontalis muscle. The Frontal artery [ophthalmic] is of small size and accompanies the supra-trochlear nerve. The Supra-orbital and Frontal veins unite to form the angular vein, which is the commencement of the facial vein; they communicate freely with the ophthalmic vein. The Temporal branch of the Orbital nerve (io) [second div. of 5th] will be found with difficulty, as it is of small size. It pierces the temporal fascia immediately above the zygoma, and is distributed to the neighbouring skin. The Auriculo-temporal nerve (3) [third div. of 5th] lies immediately in front of the ear and close to the temporal artery. Emerging from the parotid gland it passes up the side of the head with the temporal