MALE PELVIC VISCERA. 280 the ureters to the back of the prostate, the existence of which as separate structures is doubtful. According to Dr. Pettigrew, whose beautiful preparations are in the museum of the College of Surgeons of England, the arrangement of the muscular fibres of the bladder is reducible to a series of figure-of-8 loops, the so-called circular fibres depending upon compression of the two halves of the figure,—thus 8 becomes 8. Beneath the muscular is the fibrous coat of the bladder, composed of loose connective tissue. [The bladder is to be opened along its upper surface by a longitu- dinal cut, which is to be continued with a strong pair of scissors through the upper surface of the prostate and the whole length of the urethra, in the latter portion being a little to one side of the middle line.] Interior of Bladder and Urethra (Figs. 152 and 153).—The mucous membrane of the bladder, if healthy, will be pale and more or less in folds throughout; except near the urethra, where is the triangular space called the trigone vesicate or trigonum vesicce. This space corresponds to that between the vesiculse seminales externally, and the sides of the triangle are about an inch and a half long, being bounded by the orifices of the ureters, which will be recog- nised as little slits in the mucous membrane. If a probe be intro- duced into one of the ureters, it will be seen to pass very obliquely through the coats of the bladder, with which it is firmly united. The epithelium consists of tliree layers, the uppermost being flat- tened, the middle pyriform, with the large end uppermost and the small end prolonged between the small rounded cells of the deepest layer. The Uvula vesicce is a small elevation of the mucous membrane at the orifice of the urethra, which is not often seen. The Urethra (Fig. 152) averages eight inches in length, and is divided into the prostatic, membranous, bulbous, and spongy portions. The Prostatic portion (Fig. 153) lies in the prostate and is about an inch and a quarter long. On each side of it will be seen the cut sub- stance of the prostate, which consists partly of glandular and partly of muscular tissue. At the bottom of the prostatic portion of the urethra is a ridge called the veru montanum or caput gallinaginis (5), dividing the canal into two hollows called the prostatic sinuses (8), into which the prostatic ducts open. On the veru montanum and near its posterior part will be found the sinus pocularis (6), a little