501 THE LATERAL VENTRICLE. ward, becoming united with the gyrus fornicatus and passing below the fascia dentata. It then makes a sudden bend backward for half an inch, this liook-like process, from which it derives its name, be- coming united with the tsenia hippocampi. The Collateral Fissure (Co) separates this last convolution from the inferior temporal convolutions, which are very irregular. It causes the prominence in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle known as the eminentia collaterals. The Dentate Fissure (io) is that immediately above the uncinate gyrus and lodges the1 fascia dentata, corresponding to the hippo- campus major in the descending cornu of the lateral ventricle. Im- mediately above this is a small dentate convolution (4), united with the tenia hippocampi, and continuous below with the uncinate gyrus. The Interior of the Brain. The Centrum Ovale Majus is seen by slicing the opposite hemi- sphere to the level of the corpus callosum. It is the great white mass formed by the continuation of the fibres of the corpus callosum into the hemispheres, the grey convolutions surroimding its circumference. The Corpus Callosum (Fig. 257, 4) forms the great commissure of the brain, and consists of fibres passing transversely from one hemi- sphere to the other. It is nearer the anterior than the posterior ex- tremity of the brain, and in the median line forms the floor of the longitudinal fissure, being slightly arched from before backwards. On a vertical section (Fig. 256, 6) it will be seen to bend abruptly ante- riorly, to pass to the base of the brain, thus forming the genu, and to be continuous posteriorly with the subjacent fornix by a thickened portion which has been called the splenium. On the surface of the corpus callosum and in the middle line is a longitudinal depression, the raphe, which is bounded on each side by the slight projections called the nerves of Lancisi. Externally to these are some transverse markings called the linece transversce, which are crossed beneath the gyrus fornicatus by the longitudinal fibres form- ing the covered band of Reil. The Lateral Ventricles. [To open the cavity in each hemisphere called the lateral ventricle, the corpus callosum is to be carefully cut through about half an inch from the middle line, until the delicate serous membrane lining the ventricle is seen; the handle of the scalpel should then be used to