THE PELVIS. 257 clary plexus on the tubes, unite in arches at the base of the pyramids, between which the straight veins pass, to emerge at the hiluni and form the renal or emulgent vein. The Supra-Renal Capsule (Fig. 138, i) is irregularly triangular in shape, or is commonly said to resemble a cocked hat. Its height is from 1| to lj inch, and its breadth about 1 j- inch. It is enclosed in a fibrous capsule and on section will be seen to consist of two parts, cortical and medullary, the latter being generally broken down in the centre by decomposition so as to form a cavity. The cortical portion (Fig. 143) consists of polyhedral cells arranged in columns, radiating from the centre, and held in position by septa continuous with the fibrous envelope. The medullary portion consists of a very fine network of connec- tive tissue, containing cavities filled with cells, which are by some observers thought to be nerve cells, and continuous with the numerous branches of the sympa- thetic which go to the organ from the solar and renal plexuses. The supra-renal capsule is abundantly supplied with arterial blood from the phrenic, aorta, renal, and lumbar arteries. Its function is unknown. The subject being replaced on its back, the dissectors should pro- ceed with the examination of the pelvis, unless they were unable to finish the aorta, lumbar plexus, and iliac arteries before the body was turned, in which case they must revert to the dissection of them at once (v. p. 226). In any case the dissector is strongly advised to read through the dissection of the deep parts of the abdomen again, before proceeding any further. The Pelvis. [The pelvis with two lumbar vertebrae is to be separated from the trunk with the saw, when, by placing it on a table with the sacrum towards himself, the dissector will be able to get a better view of the contents than he has yet done. The cavity of the pelvis should be Fig. 143.—-Vertical section of cortical portion of supra-renal capsule (from Frey). a. Small, and b. Larger gland cylinders. c. Capsule.