384 THE PHARYNX. is generally much shrunken in a subject which has arrived at this stage of dissection. [The pharynx and upper part of the cesopliagus are to he carefully distended with cotton wool or tow, and the preparation being placed with the face downwards, is to be secured over a small block with hooks, one set of which should draw the oesophagus down and keep the pharynx tense. The vessels and nerves at the back of the pharynx are to be examined before the muscular bag itself is dissected.] The vessels and nerves now to be examined have all been seen in part in previous dissections, and then from either the front or the side. They are now all seen from behind, and this must be borne in mind thoroughly, or it will lead to misconception of the description. The section of the base of the skull is seldom precisely similar on the two sides, and it will generally be found advisable therefore to trace the parts first brought into view on one side, and the carotid artery, etc., on the other, as in the illustration (Fig. 203). The Sympathetic Nerve (Fig. 203) with its superior and middle cervical ganglia is at once exposed, and some of its branches may be very conveniently traced. The Superior cervical ganglion (12) is fusiform, and nearly an inch in length. It lies behind the internal carotid artery, and has small branches of communication with the following cranial nerves—the glosso-pliaryngeal, the pneumo-gastric, and the hypoglossal. The branches of communication with the cervical nerves have been already seen (p. 343). The branches of distribution are, (1) the nervi molles, distributed upon the external carotid artery and its branches ; (2) the pharyngeal branch, which can now be traced to the pharynx, where it enters into the formation of the pharyngeal plexus ; (3) the laryngeal branch to the superior laryngeal nerve; (4) the superior cardiac nerve, which has been already seen. The Middle cervical ganglion (18) is of small size, and gives off (1) thyroid branches upon the inferior thyroid artery, and (2) the middle cardiac nerve (Fig. 181). The Ninth or Hypoglossal Nerve (Fig. 203, 10) is necessarily cut off at the anterior condyloid foramen in making the dissection, and should therefore be traced from below, where it will be found in relation with the occipital artery. The nerve is at first posterior to the internal carotid artery and jugular vein, and then passes between them; and also between the pneumo-gastric and spinal-accessory nerves, with the former of which it has a communication, as well as with the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. A small branch, connected with the ninth nerve at one end and loose at the