279 THE PROSTATE AND BLADDER. of the penis will be brought into view and the dorsal vessels and nerves will he seen. The dorsal vein may now he traced to its junction with the plexus of veins around the prostate and neck of the bladder. The Prostate (Fig. 152, 7) is shaped like a chestnut, having the small end or apex in front, and weighs in the adult something less than an ounce. The length of the organ from base to apex is in health from 1 j- to 1^ inch, and the greatest transverse diameter about If inch (H. Thompson); but these measurements undergo great variation in old persons, the subjects of “ enlarged prostate.” The prostate consists of two lateral lobes, the division between which is marked by a slight groove on the under surface, the projection in the floor of the urethra described by some authors as the third ox- middle lobe being the result of morbid changes. A little hollow in the centre of the posterior aspect, or base, receives the common ejaculatory ducts. The structure of the prostate is partly glandular and partly muscular, the fibres (of the unstriped variety) being con- tinuous with those of the bladder. The Vesiculae Seminales (Fig. 152, 9) are two membranous receptacles for the semen, attached to the under surface of the bladder immediately behind the prostate, from which they diverge. Each vesicle consists of a convoluted tube, which becomes straight at the base of the prostate, and joins the corresponding vas deferens to form the common ejaculatory duct, to be afterwards seen opening into the urethra. The Bladder (Fig. 152, 4).—The peritoneal coat of the bladder has been already dissected (p. 265). The muscular coat consists of three layers, external or longitudinal, middle or circular, and internal (submucous of Ellis), also longitu- dinal. The external layer, sometimes known as the detrusor urince, is attached to the anterior true ligaments of the bladder at the back of the pubes. It is continued over the bladder and joins the posterior part of the prostate. The middle layer consists of circular fibres, which form the sphincter vesicce around the neck of the bladder, and are then continued over the prostate. They become more or less oblique in their distribution over the bladder. The internal layer is continuous with the longitudinal fibres of the urethra, and is joined by the fibres of the ureters, which meet in the middle line and are also spread over the trigonum (Ellis). Sir Charles Bell described special muscular bands continued from