THE CEREBELLUM. 509 of the optic thalami by two slender anterior peduncles or liabence, and is also connected with the subjacent bodies by slender inferior pe- duncles. The velum interpositum gives a special investment of pia mater to the gland. The pineal body contains a cavity in which are some particles of calcareous matter (acervulus). The Corpora Quadrigemina (Fig. 260,12) are four white promi- nences placed immediately behind the third ventricle, and named Nates and Testes, from their fancied resemblance to those parts ; but it is to be noted that their position is the reverse of that in man, since the two anterior bodies are the nates and the posterior the testes. Both sets of bodies are connected to the optic thalami by white bands, and the nates are also coimected to the pineal gland, which lies upon their upper surface. The two broad white bands passing from the cerebellum to the testes, are the superior peduncles of the cerebellum (processus a cere- hello ad testes) (Fig. 261, 3), and between them is a thin layer of white matter, the Valve of Vieussens (Fig. 260, 13), to which the fourth pair of nerves may be traced round the superior peduncles of the cerebellum. The band of white matter passing transversely beneath the corpora quadrigemina on each side, and seen immediately in front of the superior peduncles of the cerebellum, is the Fillet of the Olivary body (Fig. 261, 2). [Opportunity may now be taken to trace out the anterior commis- sure of the third ventricle and the anterior pillar of the fornix, by carefully scraping away the corpus striatum of one side.] The Anterior Commissure is a cylindrical white band, which may be traced through the corpus striatum to the roof of the descending cornu of the lateral, ventricle. The Anterior pillar of the Fornix descends in front of the third ventricle, and reaches the base of the brain, where it makes a twist to form the superficial white substance of the corpus albicans of one side, and then ascends to be lost in the grey matter of the optic tha- lamus (Fig. 256). t The Cerebellum. The Cerebellum (Fig. 253, 28) or small brain lies beneath the posterior lobes of the cerebrum, and in the skull is separated from them by the tentorium cerebelli. It is of a darker colour than the cerebrum, and its surface is divided into laminae instead of convolu- tions, and these are separated by shallow sulci. The cerebellum is