420 LIGAMENTS OF THE VERTEBRAL stance will be best seen, and will be found to consist of fibro-cartil- aginous plates placed in front of and behind the central pulpy material. The plates of both series are arranged one within another, the superficial ones being slightly bent towards the surface and the deeper ones towards the centre. The Articular Processes are surrounded by Capsular Ligaments (Fig. 220, 2), which are looser in the cervical than in the dorsal and lumbar regions ; they permit a simple gliding movement (arthrodia) between the processes, which are invested by a simple synovial membrane. The Arches are united by the Ligamenta Subflava (Fig. 220, 1). These are to be seen on the internal surfaces of the arches which have been removed, and will be found to consist of a series of yellow elastic ligaments, extending between the arches of the vertebrae on each side of the middle line from the axis to the sacrum. Owing to the overlapping of the vertebrae, the ligaments are attached to the posterior surface of the arch below and to the anterior surface of the arch above, ex- tending from the articular process to the root of the spinous process on each side. The Spinous Processes are united by (1) the Interspinous and (2) the Supraspinous ligaments. The Interspinous Ligaments are placed between the spinous processes of the vertebrae, extending from the root to the tip of each, and being stronger in the lumbar than in the dorsal, and in the dorsal than in the cervical region. The Supraspinous Ligament is a fibrous cord extending along the tips of the spinous processes from the last cervical vertebra to the sacrum. It is continuous with the ligamentum nuchce, and is thicker in the lumbar than in the dorsal region. It is composed of superficial and deep fibres, which have the same arrangement as those of the anterior and posterior common ligament The Transverse Processes are connected by Intertransverse Liga- Fig. 220.—Internal view of the arches of three vertebra (from Wilson). 1. One of the ligamenta subflava. 2. The capsular ligament of one side. Fig. 220.