216 MESENTERIC VESSELS. arteries. The branches to the small intestine form a series of primary and secondary loops, which inosculate freely with one another, and at last ramify in the submucous areolar tissue of the intestine. The branches to the large intestine take the course indicated by their names ; thus the ileo-eolic goes to the end of the ileum and com- mencement of the colon (caecum), the right colic to the ascending, and the middle colic to the transverse colon. Each of these arteries divides into primary loops, which spread out on each side, and inosculate with one another and with the branches to the small intestine ; and thus a free anastomosis is established from one part to another of the intestinal canal. Corresponding branches of veins mil be found running with the arteries, and opening into the Superior Mesenteric Vein (Fig. 114, 6), which unites with the splenic to form the vena port®. In addition, there may be found ramifying upon the arteries the branches of the superior mesenteric plexus, derived from the solar plexus of the sympathetic ; and interspersed are the lymphatic glands which receive the lacteals from the intestines. [The whole of the small intestines are to be turned over to the right side, and the remainder of the meso-colon is to be removed to expose the inferior mesenteric vessels.] The Inferior Mesenteric Artery (Fig. Ill, 9) will be seen to arise from the abdominal aorta about an inch and a half above the bifurcation, and to give off the left colic (10) to the descending colon the sigmoid (12) (three or four) to the sigmoid flexure ; and lastly, the superior hoemorrhoidal artery (13), which descends into the pelvis to supply the rectum. These arteries form loops and anastomose freely with one another, and moreover, the left colic inosculates with the middle colic of the superior mesenteric, and the superior haemorrhoidal with the middle lueinorrhoidal of the internal iliac artery. The Inferior Mesenteric Vein (Fig. 114, 1) will be seen to have branches corresponding to those of the artery, and anastomoses by its hsemorrhoidal branch with the middle hsemorrhoidal branch of the internal iliac vein. It passes upwards beneath the pancreas to join the splenic vein, and so into the vena portse, thus forming a communication between the two great venous systems. Branches of the inferior mesenteric plexus of the sympathetic may be traced upon the vessels. It may be noticed that the mesenteric veins never present dilatations, which is owing to their having no valves.