84 DISSECTION OF THE LEG. neck of the femur is one taken vertically from the anterior superior iliac spine when the body is recumbent (Fig. 38, a c), from which the distance (c d) to the top of the great trochanter can be accurately measured. The condyles of the femur and the patella are to be examined, and . it should be noticed how large a part of the articular end of the femur is uncovered by the patella when the knee is flexed. The ligament of the patella and its attachment to the tibia are to be noticed, and the finger carried along the subcutaneous surface of the tibia, the shin, down to the ankle. The head of the fibula is prominent, and the hand carried to the back of the knee will recognise the outer and inner hamstrings attached to it and to the tibia, and when the knee is flexed may feel the popliteal artery behind the joint. The lower third of the fibula is subcutaneous and terminates in the prominent external malleolus, behind which the peroneal tendons can be felt. On the inner side, the inner malleolus is to be examined, with the tendons behind it, and at the back of the limb the Achilles tendon attached to the heel. The foot is to be moved freely, when it will be found that the amount of lateral motion in the ankle joint is greatest when the toe is thoroughly pointed. In the same position the broad upper articular surface of the astragalus becomes subcutaneous, and is readily seen beyond the margin of the tibia. In the foot, the following points of practical utility should be thoroughly recognised ; first, on the inner side, the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone, to which the tendon of the tibialis posticus may be traced, and which is the guide in Chopart’s amputation of the foot ; secondly, the slighter prominence of the internal cuneiform bone and base of the first metatarsal bone in front of it, to which the tendon of the tibialis anticus may be traced, and which serve as a guide in Hey’s amputation ; and thirdly, on the outer side, the prominent base of the fifth metatarsal bone, which serves the same purpose. The toes are commonly much distorted owing to the long pressure of ill-fitting shoes, and the metatarso-plialangeal articulation of the great toe is not unfrequently diseased, forming a bunion. The Front of the Thigh. [An incision is to be made along Poupart’s ligament and carried down the inner border of the thigh, for half its length, and this is to be joined by another across the limb at that point; the flap of skin thus marked out is to be carefully reflected to the outer side of the thigh.]