383 THE PHARYNX. The inferior oblique ■portion (3) arises from the bodies of the 1st and 2nd dorsal vertebras, and passes obliquely upward to be inserted into the transverse processes of the 5th and 6tlr cervical vertebrae. The superior oblique portion (5) arises from the anterior tubercles on the transverse processes of the 3rd, 4th, and 5th cervical vertebra;, and passes upward and outward to be inserted into the anterior tubercle of the atlas. The vertical portion (6) arises from the bodies of the three lower cervical and three upper dorsal vertebrae, and is inserted into the bodies of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th cervical vertebrae. All the prevertebral muscles draw forward the upper part of the vertebral column or bow the head, when acting symmetrically; or when the muscle of one side acts alone, it draws the spine to that side. The scalene muscles, when the vertebrae are fixed, act upon the ribs and raise them, thus being ordinary muscles of inspiration. The scaleni and longus colli are supplied by branches derived from the nerves of the brachial plexus, close to the intervertebral foramina. The recti antici are supplied by the anterior branches of the first and second cervical, and the rectus lateralis by the anterior branch of the first cervical nerve. The small Intertransverse muscles may be seen between the trans- verse processes. The anterior ones pass between the anterior tubercles of the transverse processes, and the posterior ones have been already seen in the dissection of the back. Between them the anterior divisions of the cervical nerves appear. The Vertebral Artery will be seen between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli muscles, and may be more conveniently traced through the foramina in the transverse processes now than at an earlier period (v. p. 337). Dissection op the Pharynx. Before dissecting the anterior half of the skull with the pharynx, the dissector should examine the fauces and upper part of the pharynx from the mouth. The soft palate with the uvula in the median line will be readily recognised, and passing from the soft palate on each side will be seen the two pillars of the fauces with the tonsil between them. The anterior pillar extends from the soft palate to the tongue, being vertical in direction, and formed by the palato-glossus muscle. The posterior pillar passes obliquely backwards, and is lost in the pharynx, being formed by the palato-pharyngeus muscle. The tonsil