227 BRANCHES OF ABDOMINAL AORTA. The Branches of the abdominal aorta are—1. Phrenic or dia- phragmatic. 2. Cceliac axis (dividing into gastric, hepatic, and splenic). 3. Superior mesenteric. 4. Supra-renal or capsular. 5. Renal. 6. Spermatic (ovarian in female). 7. Inferior mesenteric 8. Middle sacral. 9. Lumbar arteries. 10. Common iliacs. The Phrenic arteries (Fig. 116, 2) ^re two small branches, which arise close below the diaphragm and ramify on its under surface, where they form a circle and anastomose with one another and with the internal mammary artery, giving also a branch to the supra-renal capsule. The veins open into the vena cava. The Cceliac Axis (Fig. 116, 4) is only half an inch in length, and divides at once into the gastric, hepatic, and splenic arteries (v. p. 217). The gastric and splenic veins open into the vena portse, but the hepatic veins which receive the blood from the vena portse as well as from the hepatic artery in the liver, open into the vena cava. The Superior Mesenteric artery (Fig. 116, 6) supplies all the small and half the large intestine (v. p. 213). Its vein opens into the vena portse. The Supra-renal arteries (Fig. 116, 7) pass, one on each side, transversely to the supra-renal capsule, the right going beneath the vena cava. In addition to this artery (middle capsular), the capsule is supplied by a branch from the phrenic (superior), and one from the renal artery (inferior). The right vein enters the vena cava, the left the renal or phrenic vein. The Renal arteries (Fig. 116, 9) arising on each side of the aorta immediately below the capsular arteries, pass transversely to the con- cave border of the kidney, the right going beneath the vena cava. The aorta being a little to the left of the vertebrae at this point, the right renal artery is necessarily slightly longer than the left, and the veins are t!ie reverse, owing to the position of the vena cava on the right of the column. The renal artery breaks up into three or four branches just as it enters the kidney, and one or more of them may pass in front of the vein, but as a rule the relation of the parts at the hilum of the kidney is (1) Vein, (2) Artery, (3) Ureter, from before back- wards. The renal or emulgent veins open into the vena cava, the left crossing the aorta. An additional renal artery not unfrequently arises from the lower part of the aorta, or from the common iliac artery. The Spermatic arteries (Fig. 116, 10) are two long slender branches which arise from the front of the aorta about an inch below the renal, and pass downwards to the internal abdominal ring and through the inguinal canal to the testes. The right crosses obliquely Q 2