64 PALM. OF THE HAND. The Lumbricales (Fig. 25, 7) are four little muscles connected with the deep flexor tendons, and bear some resemblance to a worm (lumbricus). The first lumbricalis, counting from the radial side (and sometimes the second), arises from the radial side of a single tendon, but the others arise by distinct slips from the adjacent sides of two deep tendons. The four muscles end in small tendons which wind to the radial side of the four fingers, and, passing over the transverse ligament of the metacarpus, are inserted into the expansion of the extensor tendons on the back of the first phalanges. The lum- bricales act with the interossei as flexors of the first phalanges and extensors of the second and third phalanges. The first and second have been seen to be supplied by branches of the median nerve ; the third and fourth receive branches of the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, which will be seen in the deeper dissection. The Tendon of the Flexor Longus Pollicis (Fig. 25, 9) is at the same level as the tendons of the flexor profundus, and can be traced between the halves of the flexor brevis pollicis to the base of the terminal phalanx of the thumb. It lies in a fibrous sheath of its own, but the synovial sheath communicates with the one beneath the annular ligament. [The tendons of the flexor profundus are to be divided (but not the flexor pollicis) and turned down with the lumbricales ; the muscles of the little finger and thumb are to be carefully dissected.] Muscles of the Little Finger. The Abductor Minimi Digiti (Fig. 25, 10) is the most superficial and the innermost of these. It arises from the pisiform bone and slightly from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, and is inserted into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx. The Flexor Brevis Minimi Digiti (Fig. 25, 11) is often insepar- ably united with the abductor; but the deep branches of the ulnar artery and nerve which pass between the two will serve as guides to the point of separation. It arises from the unciform process of the unciform bone and from the annular ligament, and is inserted with the abductor into the base of the first phalanx. The Opponens Minimi Digiti is the deepest of the set, and arises from the unciform process close to the preceding muscle and from the annular ligament. It spreads into a triangular shape, and is inserted into the inner margin of the shaft of the fifth metacarpal bone, thus resembling the opponens pollicis as to insertion, although the power of “ opposition ” in the little finger is much more limited than in the thumb.