LIGAMENTS OF THE LEG. 162 fourth metatarsal bones (ix), and sometimes into that between the external cuneiform and cuboid bones ; in which case an interosseous ligament often existing between the external cuneiform and the fourth metatarsal bone is wanting. Interosseous ligaments will be found between the scaphoid and cuboid bones ; between the internal and middle cuneiform bones ; between the middle and external cuneiform bones ; and between the external cuneiform and cuboid bones. The 6th synovial membrane (vm) will be found between the front of the cuboid bone and the bases of the fourth and fifth metatarsal bones, and entering the articulation between the latter. The 7th is a separate synovial membrane (vi) for the first meta- tarsal bone, being placed between it and the kidney-shaped anterior surface of the internal cuneiform bone. Surgery.—The shape of the articulations should be particularly noticed with reference to the several amputations about the foot. At the ankle the astragalus is locked between the projecting malleoli, and it is only by dividing the lateral ligaments, by the side of the astragalus and outside the joint altogether, that the bones can be separated, as in Syme’s or Pirogoff’s amputations. The astragalo-scaphoid and calcaneo-cuboid articulations will be seen to be nearly in the same line, and are easily opened in Chopart’s amputation. The guides for this operation are the tubercle of the scaphoid bone on the inner side, and a point midway between the external malleolus and the fifth metatarsal bone on the outer side, where occasionally a projection may be felt. If, in performing this operation, the articulation in front of the scaphoid should be opened by mistake, the operator would at once see the three articular surfaces for the cuneiform bones, instead of the single globular surface of the astragalus. The operation of disarticulating the metatarsus from the tarsus (Hey’s or Lisfranc’s amputation), is rendered very difficult by the fact that the base of the second metatarsal bone is firmly wedged between the internal and external cuneiform bones, projecting farther into the tarsus than the other bones, and being also attached to the internal cuneiform by a strong interosseous ligament. In ampu- tating at this point therefore, after opening the articulations of the first and three outer metatarsal bones, it is necessary to thrust the point of the knife between the internal cuneiform and second meta- tarsal bones to divide this ligament, or there will be danger of dragging away the internal cuneiform bone. The articulations are