V 96 FRONT OF THE THIGH. of the knee joint, where it lies at first in front of the saphena vein. Before becoming cutaneous it sends a large branch forward to the skin of the patella (ramus cutcmeus patella') (14), which pierces the sartorius, and unites with branches of the internal and middle cutaneous nerves to form what has been called the plexus patella. The Superficial veins of the thigh are very variable, but they either open into the saphena vein separately, or form one or more separate branches which join the main trunk at or near the saphenous opening. Muscles of the Front of the Thigh. [The remains of the fascia lata are to be removed and the cutaneous nerves turned aside. The muscles of the front of the thigh will be put on the stretch by flexing the knee, except the sartorius, which must be stretched with hooks in order to clean it. All the loose fascia is to be removed, and each muscle cleaned in the direction of its fibres, special care being taken to expose clearly the origin and insertion of each.] Connected with the fascia lata on the outer side of the thigh is the Tensor Fasciae or Vaginae Femoris (Fig. 47, 4) which is to be exposed by removing the fascia below the crest of the ilium. The muscle arises from the outside of the anterior superior spine of the ilium and part of the notch between the two anterior iliac spines, and from a small portion of the crest ; and the fibres pass downwards and backwards to be inserted into the fascia lata below the great trochanter, the fascia being split at this point to receive the muscular fibres. The tensor vaginae femoris is, as its name implies, a tensor of the fascia of the thigh, and thereby supports and assists the other muscles of the limb ; it is also an internal rotator of the femur. It is supplied by a branch of the superior gluteal nerve, which may be seen enter- ing the deep surface of the muscle when it is reflected. The Sartorius (Fig. 47, 5) is the longest muscle of the body, and when dissected lies loosely upon the subjacent muscles. It arises from the anterior superior spine of the ilium and from the notch below it, and, crossing obliquely over the thigh, winds to the inner side of the knee and is inserted into the broad and subcutaneous surface below the inner tuberosity of the tibia. The insertion of the sartorius is by a broad tendinous expansion, which is incorporated with the fascia of the limb and overlaps the insertions of the gracilis and semi-tendinosus muscles (of which the latter is the lower one), a bursa intervening between them ; it also sends a slip beneath the other tendons. The sartorius (tailor-muscle) is a flexor of the leg upon the thigh, and a flexor and rotator outwards of the thigh upon