THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 185 The Deep Muscles are the Deep Transverse, and the Constrictor of the Vagina. The Deep Transverse Muscle arises from the ramus of the ischium and passes to the central point of the perinseum, where it meets its fellow of the opposite side. The Constrictor of the Vagina consists of a few fibres which arise from the central point of the perinseum, and ascend to meet the muscle of the opposite side over the urethra. Involuntary circular fibres surround the whole length of the female urethra. The Glands of Bartholin (Fig. 93, 12) correspond to Cowper’s glands in the male. Each gland is of the size of a small bean, and is situated behind the triangular ligament opposite the lower border of the bulb. The minute duct of each gland opens on the mucous surface of the vagina, about half an inch from the orifice and in front of the hymen. Pudic Artery and Nerve (Fig. 92). The terminations of the pudic artery and nerve in the female correspond closely to those of the male, but are much smaller. The artery lies under cover of the ramus of the pubes with the nerve, and gives off an artery to the bulb, to the crus clitoridis, and the dorsal artery of the clitoris. The artery of the bulb (8) runs transversely inwards, and terminates in the bulb of the vagina. The artery to the crus clitoridis (9) is very small, and is lost in that organ. The dorsal artery of the clitoris (7) reaches the dorsum of the organ with the corresponding nerve. The Dorsal Vein of the clitoris is of large size, and passes backwards to open into the great veins around the neck of the bladder. The Pudic Nerve (n) gives off muscular branches (12), and ends in the dorsal nerve of the clitoris (18), which bears a much larger proportion to that organ than the corresponding nerve of the penis. [The flaps of skin should be carefully fastened together with stitches before the body is moved from its position.] Dissection of the Abdominal Wall. The dissection of the Perinseum having been completed, the student should proceed to examine the abdominal wall, the condition of which will vary considerably in different subjects. In a fat subject the wall of the abdomen will be smooth and uniform, but in a thin