269 THE INTERNAL ILIAC ARTERY. mon iliac, from which it comes off at the sacro-iliac synchondrosis, and immediately passes into the pelvis. In the foetus the hypogas- tric artery, the direct continuation of the internal iliac in size and direction, passed forwards over the bladder to the umbilicus, hut it is now converted into a fibrous cord, which however is pervious for a short distance, and thus gives branches to the bladder. The inter- nal iliac is crossed by the ureter and closely covered by the peritoneum in front; behind it are the internal iliac vein and the lumbo-sacral cord, with a portion of the pyriformis muscle. At the upper border of the great sacro-sciatic notch it divides into anterior and posterior trunks, which give branches to the viscera and to the inside and outside of the pelvis. Branches (Fig. 149).—From the anterior division are given off three visceral and three parietal branches ; from the posterior trunk three parietal branches. Visceral branches. Anterior Division. {Superior vesical. Inferior vesical. Middle hemorrhoidal. Parietal branches. {Obturator. Pudic. Sciatic. Uterine \ additional Vaginal \ in female. Posterior Division. ( Gluteal. Parietal branches. | Ilio-lumbar. ( Lateral sacral. 1. The Superior vesical (7) arteries are small brandies from the unobliterated portion of the hypogastric artery, which are distributed to the upper part of the bladder. A middle vesical branch is some- times derived from one of these, and from another is derived the artery of the vas deferens, which accompanies the duct to the testicle and anastomoses with the spermatic artery. 2. The Inferior vesical, and 3, Middle lmmorrhoidal (16) arteries generally come off together, and are distributed to the under surface of the bladder and vesiculce seminales, and to the adjacent portion of the rectum. The middle hsemorrhoidal artery anastomoses with the superior hsemorrhoidal branch of the inferior mesenteric above, and with the inferior hsemorrhoidal branch of the pudic artery below. 4. The Uterine (8) and Vaginal arteries supply those organs, the uterine passing to the cervix and then giving branches to the body of the uterus.