322 THE ORBIT. g. The Frontal artery (13), one of the terminal branches, turns round the margin of the orbit at its inner angle to accompany the supra-trochlear nerve on the forehead. h. The Nasal artery (15), the other terminal branch, leaves the orbit at the inner side above the tendo oculi, and anastomoses on the side of the nose with the angular branch of the facial artery (12). The Ophthalmic Vein (Fig. 170, 10) has branches corresponding to those of the artery, which unite to form a single trunk passing between the heads of the external rectus to the cavernous sinus. The Optic Nerve (Fig. 170, 13) (2nd) enters the orbit by the optic foramen, and passes through its centre to the eye-ball, to end in the retina. It pierces the back of the sclerotic about its own width to the inner side of the axis of the eye-ball. [The optic nerve is to be divided, and the globe turned forwards to bring into view the muscles beneath.] The remaining Recti Muscles (Fig. 174) are seen below, and to the inner and outer sides of, the optic nerve, and are named accord- ingly, inferior, interims, and externus. They arise by a common origin (ligament of Zinn) around the optic foramen, but the externus has an attachment to the lower margin of the sphenoidal fissure, completing its lower head, as well as a second head (the upper) arising from the upper part of the optic foramen,, where it is united to that of the rectus superior. Between these two heads pass the 3rd nerve, the nasal branch of the 5th nerve, the 6th nerve, and the ophthalmic vein. The recti muscles are to be traced forward to their insertion into the sclerotic coat, a quarter of an inch behind the cornea. The Sixth Nerve (Fig. 171, 8) (abducens) is seen on the inner surface of the rectus externus, which it supplies. The Third Nerve (Fig. 171, 13) (motor oculi) enters the orbit in two parts, one above and the other below the nasal nerve. The upper division has been traced to the levator palpebrte and superior rectus muscles ; the lower division (14) is now seen to give small branches to the internal and inferior recti, and the long branch which runs on the inferior rectus to the inferior oblique muscle, from which the short root to the lenticular ganglion is derived. [To expose the obliquus inferior, it will be necessary to draw the eye-ball to the upper and outer part of the orbit, and to remove the conjunctiva at the inner angle.]