304- sinuses OF THE DURA MATER. [The 6th nerve is to he followed by dividing the dura mater over it, and will be found to lie against the outer side of the carotid artery, where it makes its sigmoid turn at the side of the sella turcica. This vessel should be fully defined, and an attempt made to see the carotid plexus of the sympathetic upon it, from which a branch goes to join the 6th. It will render the dissection more useful if a small piece of the lesser wing of the sphenoid is clipped off with the bone forceps so as to open up the sphenoidal fissure, and the nerves can then be carefully followed to their entry into the orbit.] The 3rd and 4th nerves, and the first division of the 5th nerve, have been seen to lie in the outer wall of the cavernous sinus immediately beneath the dura mater ; and between them and the 6th nerve, which is placed against the carotid artery, is the venous canal through which the blood is returned from the orbit. This is very delicate, and can seldom be defined, but it receives the ophthalmic vein and opens into the two petrosal sinuses (Fig. 162). Fig. 162. 3rd nerve.. 4th nerve.. oth nerve.. 6th nerve.. Dura mater Venous canal. Internal carotid. The relation which the nerves hold to one another in the cavernous sinus is at first, from above downwards, according to their numerical order—i.e. 3, 4, 5, 6 ; and their relations to the sinus have been already described. Before they reach the orbit, however, they change their relative positions, which at the sphenoidal fissure are roughly as follows, from above downward—4, 5, 3, 6. If, however, the fissure has been opened up as advised, and the dissection be carefully made, the 3rd nerve before entering the orbit will be found to divide into two parts (between which the nasal branch of the 5th takes its course), and the 5th to divide into the frontal and lachrymal branches. The order therefore of parts Fig. 162.—Diagram of left cavernous sinus seen in section from behind, (drawn by J. T. Gray).