492 BASE OF THE BRAIN. by its upper end, and in the foetus opened into the hollow pituitary body, but is closed below in adult life. The pituitary body (if left attached) will be seen to be solid in the adult, and to consist of two lobes of a reddish colour. The anterior lobe is the larger, and is oblong in shape ; the posterior lobe is round. The relation of the infundibulum and pituitary body to the tuber cinereum will be better understood by referring to the vertical section of the brain (Fig. 263, 20). The Corpora Albicantia or Mammillaria (Fig. 253,10) are two white bodies resembling small peas, which are placed between the two crura cerebri. They are formed by the anterior crura of the fornix which, as will be afterwards seen, descend to the base of the brain and there make a sudden twist upon themselves, thus forming the bodies. Upon section grey matter will be found in the interior of each body (Fig. 256, 8). The Locus Perforatus Posticus (Fig. 253, 12) (Pons Tarini) is placed in the angle between the two crura cerebri. It is composed of grey matter, and is perforated by numerous vessels going to the thalamus opticus. The several structures which have been enumerated in the median line, viz., lamina cinerea, optic chiasma, tuber cinereum, corpora albicantia, and locus perforatus posticus, are all included within the area of the circle of Willis, and also form the floor of the third ven- tricle of the brain, as will be seen on referring to a vertical section (Fig. 263). The Olfactory Peduncle (First nerve) (Fig. 253, 3) is of a pris- matic shape and is very soft, being destitute of neurilemma and only held in its place by a reflection of the arachnoid. The peduncle has three roots, two white and one grey. The external root (white) passes across the fissure of Sylvius in the middle lobe, and may be traced to the corpus striatum ; the internal root (white) goes to the inner side of the anterior lobe ; the middle root (grey) passes to the papilla of grey matter in the olfactory sulcus. The Olfactory Bulb (Fig. 253, 3) is formed upon the extremity of the olfactory peduncle, and from it the branches of the olfactory nerve arise which descend to the nose. It contains grey matter, is oval in shape, and rests upon the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone. The Optic or Second Nerve (Fig. 253, 7) passes from the optic commissure to the eye-ball, where it is lost in the retina. It is round and firm, and is invested by a sheath of dura mater. It has been