70 LIGAMENTS OF THE ARM. arthrodial joint, though occasionally there is a fibro-cartilage developed in it, dividing the synovial cavity into two parts. The Superior acromio-clavicular ligament (Fig. 30, i), is a quadri- lateral hand of short strong fibres, more or less connected with the fibres of the trapezius and deltoid. It Fig- 30. is in reality continuous with the in- ferior acromio-clavicular ligament, which is similar in shape, but placed below the joint. The Coraco-Clavicular Ligament (Fig. 30, 2) is really but one ligament twisted upon itself so as to present two surfaces, to which the names Conoid and Trapezoid have been given; if the spine of the scapula has been di- vided, this twisted arrangement can be readily undone. The Conoid Ligament is the more posterior portion, and resembles a cone with the base upwards. It is attached to the posterior and inner part of the base of the coracoid process lelow, and to the tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle and part of the adjacent bone above. The Trapezoid Ligament might be more suitably called rhomboid from its shape. It is a quadrilateral band of fibres .attached to the line on the posterior part of the upper surface of the coracoid process below, and to the line leading to the tubercle on the under surface of the clavicle above. It is anterior and external to the conoid ligament.* The Coraco-Acromial Ligament (Fig. 30, 3) is a triangular band attached to the outer side of the coracoid process, and by its smaller end to the tip of the acromion process, and is often divided into two portions. It arches above the shoulder-joint and prevents dislocation upwards. * The relation of the ligaments may he remembered by the letters a e in trapezoid, which is anterior and external to the conoid. Fig. 30.—Ligaments of the scapula and shoulder-joint (from Wilson). 1. Superior acromio-clavicular liga- ment. 2. Coraco-clavieular ligament (tra- pezoid). 3. Coraco-acromial ligament. 4. Transverse ligament. 5. Capsular ligament. 6. Coraco-humeral ligament. 7. The long tendon of the biceps issuing from the capsular liga- ment and entering the bicipital groove.