THE BUTTOCK. 106 the. middle of the sacrum to the tip of the coccyx, when, if the perinseum and thigh have been dissected, it will only he necessary to make another cut across the upper part of the hack of the thigh to allow the large flap of skin to he reflected outwards.] The amount of fat beneath the skin of the buttock varies consider- ably, and if there is a large quantity it will he a waste of time to look for cutaneous nerves. The Cutaneous Nerves are descending and ascending. The descending branches will he found passing over the middle of the crest of the ilium, and are the iliac branches of the last dorsal and first' lumbar (ilio-hypogastric) nerves, the former being in front of the latter. There are a few branches also derived from the pos- terior divisions of the lower lumbar and upper sacral nerves, which pass obliquely from near the middle line. The ascending branches turn round the lower border of the gluteus maximus, and are branches of the lesser sciatic nerve. [The portion of deep fascia covering the gluteus medius and seen in front of the gluteus maximus is to be cleaned, and then the gluteus maximus itself, the fibres being put on the stretch by flexing and inverting the thigh, and the dissector beginning at the upper border of the muscle on the right, and its lower border on the left limb.] The Gluteus Maximus (Fig. 51, 2) arises from the rough triangle between the posterior third of the crest of the ilium and the superior curved line on the dorsum ilii ;* from the side of the lower part of the sacrum, and the side of the coccyx ; from the tendinous expansion over the back of the sacrum ; and from the surface of the great sacro-sciatic ligament, which will be seen when the muscle is divided. The fibres run downwards and outwards, and the upper two-thirds of the muscle are inserted into the fascia lata covering the great trochanter (ilio-tibial band), the lower third being attached to the rough ridge leading from the back of the trochanter major to the linea aspera of the femur, and into the fascia as well. The gluteus maximus is one of the most important muscles for maintaining the erect position of the body, by fixing the pelvis upon the thigh. When the pelvis is the fixed point, the muscle is a powerful extensor of the thigh, and at the same time rotates it outwards. It is supplied by the inferior gluteal branches of the small sciatic nerve. * In describing the glutei fnuscles the dorsum ilii is considered to have three curved lines, and not two as given by some authors.