97 THE RECTUS FEMORIS. the pelvis, thus crossing the legs, and hence the name. It is supplied by the middle cutaneous branch of the anterior crural nerve. ' The Quadriceps Extensor is the fleshy mass on the front of the thigh consisting of the rectus femoris super- ^ ficially, with the crureus beneath it, and the vastus externus and interims on either side. The Rectus Femoris (Fig. 47, 6) has no attachment to the femur, but stretches over it from the pelvis to the patella. It arises by a double tendinous origin, from the ante- rior inferior spine of the ilium and from the rough depression above the acetabulum, but the outer or reflected tendon cannot be tho- roughly seen at present. The two heads unite to form a fusiform penniform muscle, which is tendinous on its under surface at the lower part, and passes to be inserted into the upper part of the patella in conjunction with the other extensor muscles. Beneath the rectus will be seen the Exter- nal circumflex branch of the profunda artery. This arises from the outer side of the vessel near its origin, and runs transversely between the branches of the anterior crural nerve, upon the vastus externus and beneath the sartorius and rectus femoris, to the outer side of the thigh, where it divides into ascending, transverse, and descending sets of branches. The ascending branches pass beneath the tensor fasciae to anastomose with the gluteal artery ; the transverse set supply the vastus externus, and, turning round the limb, anas- tomose with the perforating branches of the profunda ; whilst the descending branch passes between the vastus Fig;. 47.—Muscles of the anterior femoral region (from Wilson). 1. Crest of the ilium. 2. Its anterior superior spinous pro- cess. 3. Gluteus meclius. 4. Tensor vagina; femoris; its inser- tion into the fascia lata is shown inferiorly, 5. Sartorius. 6. Rectus femoris. 7. Vastus externus. 8. Vastus internus. 9. Patella. 10. Iliacus internus. 11. Psoas magnus. 12. Pcctineus. 13. Adductor longus. 14. Part of the adductor magnus. 15. Gracilis.