THE SCALP. 296 orbicularis palpebrarum, the anterior belly of the occipito-frontalis, and the attrahens aurem muscles. The Temporal artery [external carotid] is found in front of the ear, and after giving off small anterior auricular branches to the pinna and the middle temporal artery (which pierces the deep fascia above the zt'goma), it divides into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior lies upon the temporal fascia and is subcutaneous ; it reaches as far forward as the forehead to anastomose with the supra-orbital artery. The posterior turns back above the ear and anastomoses with the occipital artery. The Temporal vein is formed by branches corresponding to those of the artery, and disappears in the parotid gland to join the internal maxillary vein, and form the external jugular vein. Surgery.—It is on the anterior branch of the temporal artery that the operation of arteriotomy is performed when it is desired to abstract blood from the head. In the operation it is necessary to make only a puncture in the artery, and, rvlien sufficient blood has flowed, to divide the vessel, in order that the ends may be able to retract and prevent the formation of a false aneurism. The Posterior Auricular nerve (13) [facial] will be found immediately behind the ear and running over the mastoid process with an accom- panying artery. It is distributed to the posterior belly of the occipito- frontalis and to the attollens and retrahens aurem muscles. The Posterior Auricular artery [external carotid] accompanies the nerve in this part of its course, and is distributed to the pinna and to the skin behind it. Its vein opens into the external jugular. The Great Auricular nerve (23) [2nd and 3rd cervical nerves] ascends to the pinna, to which it gives numerous branches, principally on its posterior surface, forming a junction with the posterior auricular nerve. The Small Occipital nerve (11) [2nd cervical nerve] will be found about an inch behind the mastoid process and jrrst at the posterior margin of the sterno-mastoid. It is a small nerve, and passes directly upwards to the scalp, which it supplies—giving also occasionally a branch to the pinna. The Great Occipital nerve (15) [posterior division of 2nd cervical nerve] is a large nerve, and will be found piercing the trapezius muscle close to the occipital protuberance. Its branches lie over the 26. Buccal nerve (5th). 31. Superficial cervical nerve. 27. Splenius capitis. 32. Mental nerve (5th). 28. Masseter. 33. Platysma. 29. Sterno-mastoid. 34. Infra-maxillary branches of facial 30. Supra-maxillary branches of facial nerve (7th). nerve (7th).