27 THE BEND OF THE ELBOW. having given a branch to that muscle, it lies between the biceps and the bracliialis anticus, both of which muscles it supplies. It finally becomes cutaneous at the outer side of the tendon of the biceps just above the bend of the elbow, ■where it has been already seen to lie beneath the median-cephalic vein. The Ulnar Nerve (Fig. 8, 8) arises from the inner cord of the brachial plexus, and lies close to the inner side of the axillary vessels, and afterwards in a similar relation with the upper part of the brachial artery. It leaves that vessel about the middle of the arm, piercing, and then running behind, the internal intermuscular septum, accompanied by the inferior profunda artery, to the interval between the internal condyle and the olecranon process. The ulnar nerve gives no branch in the upper arm. The Musculo-spiral Nerve (Fig. 8, 13) is derived from the posterior cord of the brachial plexus, and lies at first behind the axillary artery and upon the subscapularis muscle with the circumflex nerve. It then rests upon the latissimus dorsi and teres major, and, after giving off a cutaneous branch to the inner side of the arm, winds backwards around the humerus, lying against the inner head of the triceps and disappearing between it and the outer head of that muscle. Branches supplying the triceps can now be seen, and in a subsequent dissection the nerve will be followed through the fibres of that muscle. Its lower portion is now visible between the supinator longus and brachialis anticus, to both of which and to the extensor carpi radialis longior, a branch may be traced; the division into radial and posterior interosseous nerves is also to be dissected out. The Bend op the Elbow. [The boundaries of the space in front of the elbow are now to be exposed by removing the fascia from the muscles of the fore-arm to the extent to which the skin has been already reflected, the tendons of the biceps and brachialis are to be thoroughly cleaned, and the fibres of the supinator brevis in the door of the space carefully dissected.] The Triangle in front of the Elbow (Fig. 9) is bounded above by an imaginary line drawn across the arm above the condyles, and below the apex is formed by the junction of the pronator teres and supinator longus two inches below the joint. The external boundary is the supinator longus, the internal the pronator teres, whilst the floor is formed, first, by the lower part of the brachialis anticus, and afterwards by the oblique fibres of ’the supinator brevis, which however cannot be seen until the space is opened up. The relations