61 PROFUNDA ARTERY. artery and nerve, and is inserted into the skin on the inner side of the hand. It is supplied by the nlnar nerve, and is often absent. [The central portion of the palmar fascia is to be detached from the annular ligament and turned down, care being taken not to injure the vessels and nerves which are close beneath, and these are to be cleaned.] The Superficial Palmar Arch (Fig. 15, 34) is the direct con- tinuation of the ulnar artery, which reaches the hand by passing over the annular ligament. The vessel is subject to very great variations, but if regular, forms an arch with the convexity forwards, reaching to about midway between the annular ligament and the root of the middle finger. The arch is completed on the radial side either by the superficialis voice branch of the radial artery, which generally pierces a few of the fibres of the muscles of the thumb, or more commonly by the radialis indicis (p. 67), the superficial volar being absent. From the convexity of the arch, and principally from its ulnar side, are given off four digital arteries, the first of which runs to the ulnar side of the little finger, whilst the three others bifurcate about half an inch from the web of the fingers to supply the radial side of the little finger, both sides of' the ring, both sides of the middle, and the ulnar half of the index finger. These branches should be traced along the sides of the fingers, and will be found to inosculate in the pulp of the terminal phalanx, being accompanied by the digital nerves ; but the relation between them differs in the palm and in the fingers,—in the former the arteries are superficial to, in the latter they are deeper than, the nervesi Each of the three outer digital arteries at its point of bifurcation re- ceives a communicating branch from the deep arch (radial artery), and the branch to the forefinger inosculates at its tip with a branch on the other side of the finger also derived from the radial (radialis indicis). The Profunda Artery is a small communicating branch arising from the ulnar artery as soon as it has crossed the annular ligament. It passes deeply, with an accompanying branch of the ulnar nerve, between the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, and will be found to complete the deep palmar arch of the radial artery. The superficial palmar arch is subject to considerable variation, one of the most common irregularities being its non-completion by the superficialis volae, in which case it generally joins the radialis indicis at the root of the index-finger. The median artery from the anterior interosseous (p. 46) may be large, and join the superficial palmar arch or supply digital branches. The Ulnar Nerve (Fig. 15, 26) accompanies the ulnar artery over