178 THE MALE PERINEUM. The Deep Transverse Muscle is generally merely the lower portion of the preceding muscle, which meets its fellow of the opposite side in the median line below the urethra. [The muscular fibres are to he divided near the urethra in order to see one of Cowper’s glands, and the pudic artery and nerve with their branches are to he followed out.] Cowper’s Glands (Fig. 89, io) are close to the membranous portion of the urethra, one being on each side of the median line, and are most readily found by tracing to each gland a small branch from the artery to the bulb. Each gland resembles a dried pea in size and shape, but consists of numerous minute lobules. Although the gland is so close to the membranous urethra, the duct opens into the bulbous portion of the canal, being nearly an inch long and perforating the floor of the urethra very obliquely. The membranous portion of the urethra will be more satisfactorily examined afterwards than in the present dissection, but opportunity should be taken to feel the staff in the urethra at this point, since it is where that tube would be opened, on the left side, in the operation of lateral lithotomy, or in the middle line in the median operation. The Pudic Artery (Fig. 91, 9) will be found under cover of the pubic arch. It ascends behind the triangular ligament, and, after giving off the artery to the bulb and the artery to the corpus caver- nosum, ends in the dorsal artery of the penis. The Artery to the Bulb (Fig. 89, 7) is a good-sized branch, which is generally above the level of the compressor urethrae muscle. It passes transversely inwards to supply the bulb, to reach which it has to pierce the triangular ligament close to the middle line. It gene- rally gives a branch to the Cowper’s gland of the same side. The size and position of the artery to the bulb vary considerably, and are of importance with reference to lateral lithotomy. When the origin is as high as represented in Fig. 89 the artery must be free from danger, but if it should arise lower (and it is occasionally found in the ischio-rectal fossa), it wrould be liable to be cut, when from its size it might give rise to troublesome and even fatal haemorrhage. The Artery to the Corpus Cavernosum (Fig. 91, 14) is a small branch which enters that vascular body and ramifies in its interior. The Dorsal Artery of the Penis is the termination of the internal pudic. It ascends between the bone and the crus penis, and