THE ABDOMINAL WALL. 18G muscular subject the prominences of the muscles will be readily recognised. In all bodies, the umbilicus will be seen in the median line about midway between the pubes and the ensiform cartilage of the sternum, and it should be noted whether there is any protrusion at this point, constituting an exomphalos or umbilical hernia. The median line will be found to be slightly depressed, corresponding, as mil be afterwards seen, to the linea alba, and it is here, below the umbilicus, that the operation of paracentesis or tapping the abdomen is performed. On each side of the median line and parallel to it, is the promi- nence caused by the rectus abdominis muscle, and occasionally the markings in that muscle known as the linea; transversce can be seen through the skin. Immediately above the pubes and close to the median line is occasionally seen the prominence of the pyramidalis muscle on each side. The pubic bone will be recognised with the finger, which should be carried outwards to the spine of the pubes, to which Poupart’s ligament is attached. The ligament when traced out will be followed along the fold of the groin to the anterior superior spinous process of the ilium, from which the iliac crest passes backwards. On the sides of the lower part of the thorax, the interdigitations of the obliquus extemus with the serratus magnus may be seen through the skin, in a well developed subject. The condition of the abdominal rings and inguinal canal should be carefully examined before the skin is removed. If the spermatic cord be traced up from the testis, it may be felt to disappear through an opening known as the external abdominal ring, and even in a per- fectly well-formed subject the fore-finger can be passed into the ring with tolerable facility, if pushed up from below, carrying the scrotum before it. In a subject with a tendency to hernia, the finger can be carried along the inguinal canal to the internal abdominal ring, or if a rupture actually exists, may be passed into the abdominal cavity, pushing before it the loose skin. If any tumour of the scrotum should happen to be present, it should be carefully examined and its nature diagnosed, with a view to confirmation by subsequent examination. In the female, the abdominal ring is usually of small size, and generally too contracted to admit the finger, but may be enlarged by a hernia. The projection above the pubes which is covered with hair and known as the mons Veneris, is due simply to a development of fat in the superficial fascia at this point. The skin of the abdomen of women who have borne children is marked by numerous small white scars, the result of its over-distension during pregnancy.