459 UPPER SURFACE OF THE DIAPHRAGM. The thoracic ganglia are generally said to correspond to the ribs in number, but there is seldom a distinct ganglion for the first rib, it being united with the inferior cervical ganglion; and occasionally two of the lower ganglia are united. The inferior cervical ganglion has branches of communication with the two lowest cervical nerves, and gives branches upon the vertebral artery, and an inferior cardiac nerve to the deep cardiac plexus (Fig. 234). The thoradc ganglia may be divided into two sets, upper and lower. From the six upper ganglia communicating branches are given to the six upper intercostal nerves, and to the pulmonary and aortic plexuses. From the six lower ganglia branches of communication are given to the six lower intercostal nerves, and the three splanchnic nerves arise. There are generally two branches of communication between each ganglion and an intercostal nerve, one grey and one white. Splanchnic Nerves (Fig. 233, 43).—The great splanchnic nerve is derived from four ganglia (7th, 8tli, 9th, 10th) by separate fibret,. The nerve runs inwards and thus enters the lower part of the medi- astinum, and, after piercing the crus of the diaphragm, joins the solar plexus in the abdomen. The lesser splanchnic nerve is derived from the 10th and 11th ganglia, and also pierces the crus of the diaphragm to join the solar or renal plexus. The least splanchnic nerve is derived from the 12th ganglion, and goes to the renal plexus. It is seldom found, because the lesser nerve is connected with the lowest ganglion. The Internal Intercostal Muscles (Fig. 236) can be seen be- neath the pleura without any further dissection. Beginning at the sternum the muscles reach as far as the angles of the ribs, at which points the intercostal vessels and nerves lying against the external intercostals are visible. The fibres of the internal intercostals take a direction contrary to that of the external intercostal muscles, i.e., they run forwards and upwards. The relation of the parts passing through the Superior Aperture of the Thorax can be now fully understood, and will be found in the following table and the accompanying diagram taken from nature (Fig. 237). The Upper Surface of the Diaphragm (Fig. 238) will now also be thoroughly exposed, the structures in relation with it having been already dissected; but these should be again carefully studied in con- nection with the muscle.