159 LIGAMENTS OF THE TARSUS. will be found to have a fibro-cartilage developed in it where it passes under the head of the astragalus, and to be principally attached to the tuberosity of the scaphoid bone and the adjacent internal cuneiform bone, giving slips also to all the adjacent bones of the tarsus (with the exception of the astragalus), and to the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. These must be removed to see the true ligaments of the joints. Ligaments of the Tarsus. On the dorsal aspect of the remaining tarsal bones will be found a number of short bands or fibres which pass between adjacent bones, and have received names as ligaments accordingly. On the plantar aspect there are similar liga- ments, three only of which are worthy of special notice, viz., the long and short calcaneo-cuboid ligaments, and the caleaneo-scaphoid ligament. The Long Calcaneo-Cuboid ligament (Fig. 86, 4)—ligamentum longum plantce—is a broad ligament, which has been already seen in the dissection of the sole of the foot. It is extensively attached to the under surface of the os calcis in front of the tuberosities, and passes forward to be attached to the posterior margin of the peroneal groove in the cuboid bone. Some of the fibres pass on over the tendon of the peroneus (to which they form a sheath), and are attached to the bases of the second, third, and fourth metatarsal bones. The Short Calcaneo-Cuboid Ligament (Fig. 86, 5) lies to the inner side of the long ligament, and is more deeply placed. It reaches from the tubercle on the under surface of the greater process Fig. 86.—Ligaments of the sole of the foot (from Wilson). 1. Os calcis. 2. Astragalus. 3. Tuberosity of the scaphoid hone. 4. Long calcaneo-cuboid ligament. 5. Part of the short calcaneo-cuboid ligament. Caleaneo-scaphoid ligament. 7, Plantar tarsal ligaments. 8, 8. Tendon of the peroneus longus muscle. 9, 9. Plantar tarso-metatarsal liga- ments. 10. Plantar ligament of the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation of the great toe; the same ligament is seen on the other toes. 11. Lateral ligaments of the meta- tarso-phalangeal articulation. 12. Transverse ligament. 13. Lateral ligaments of the pha- langes of the great toe; the same ligaments are seen in the other toes.