493 THE PONS VAROLII. shown that each optic nerve has fibres derived from the opposite as well as from its own side of the body. The Optic Tract (Fig. 253) is a flattened band connecting the optic commissure with the brain. It can be seen disappearing around the crus cerebri and beneath the middle lobe, and will be afterwards traced to the corpora geniculata, to the optic thalamus, and to the corpora quadrigemina. The Locus Perforatus Anticus (Fig. 253, 6) is situated close behind the olfactory nerve, and at the inner end of tire fissure of Sylvius. It is composed of grey nervous matter, and is perforated by numerous small branches from the middle cerebral artery. The Fissure of Sylvius (Fig. 253, 5) runs outwards between the anterior and middle lobes of the cerebrum, and is occupied by the middle cerebral artery. It corresponds to the margin of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone when the hrain is in situ, and is divided into two portions on the outer aspect of the brain, which will be subsequently traced. At the bottom of the fissure will be seen a few nearly straight convolutions (gyri operti) aggregated together, to which the name Island of Reil or central lobe has been applied. The Crus Cerebri (Fig. 253, 14) (peduncle of the cerebrum) is one of two large white bodies, which appear at the anterior border of the pons Yarolii and diverge to enter the under surface of the cere- brum. It is continuous with the anterior columns of the spinal cord through the pons Yarolii. Winding round each crus are the optic tract and the fourth nerve, and between the two crura is the inter- peduncular space containing the tuber cinereum, the corpora albicantia, and the locus perforatus posticus. The Third Nerve (Fig. 253, 9) (motor oculi) is a good-sized nerve, which appears with its fellow between the crura cerebri in front of the pons Varolii. The fibres are connected with the grey substance of the crura (locus niger), and may be traced to the floor of the fourth ventricle. The Fourth Nerve (Fig. 253, 11) (trochlearis vel patheticus) is .the smallest of the cranial nerves, and winds round the crus cerebri. It will be afterwards traced to the valve of Vieussens. The Pons Varolii or Annular Protuberance (Fig. 253, 16) is the large white body immediately behind the crura and in front of the medulla oblongata. It is more or less convex from side to side, but is slightly grooved along the middle line by the basilar artery. On each side is a round thick process of white fibres passing obliquely outwards and backwards to the cerebellum, which is the crus cenbelli or processus a cerebello ad pontem. Emerging from the side 0 the