361 MUSCLES OF MASTICATION, [The temporal fascia is to be detached from the tipper border of the zygoma, and a cut is to be made with the saw through the malar bone in front of the masseter, and behind it through the zygoma as near its root as possible. The piece of bone with the masseter attached can then be turned down, when the deep fibres of the muscle will be seen attached to the lower jaw, and the masseteric branch of artery and nerve will be found behind the coronoid process, and must neces- sarily be divided. The temporal muscle is to be cleaned and the fat beneath the masseter removed, so as to expose the buccinator muscle thoroughly, together with its branch of nerve and artery, which appear in front of the coronoid process, and are to be preserved.] The Temporal Muscle (Fig. 196, 2) arises from the whole of the temporal fossa and from the under surface of the temporal fascia, which has been seen to be attached to the whole length of the temporal ridge. Its fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the apex of the outer surface of the coronoid process, and into the inner surface of the coronoid process and ramus of the lower jaw, as far as the last molar tooth. It is also connected with the pterygo- maxillary ligament. [With the saw and bone-forceps the coronoid process and the anterior part of the ramus of the jaw are to be carefully cut off, and turned up. The neck of the jaw is then to be sawn through trans- versely just below the condyle, and the ramus divided transversely at the level of the molar teeth. In making this last cut the saw should only go through half the thickness of the jaw, after which the bone-forceps can be applied at the upper border so as to split the piece of bone, and allow of its removal in two pieces without injury to the nerve. On removing the portion of ramus thus separated, the periosteirm will probably be left behind, and on this being dissected away, the inferior dental nerve and artery will be seen lying on the internal lateral ligament before entering the dental foramen, and in front of these the lingual (gustatory) nerve. Crossing both nerves transversely at the upper part of the space now exposed is the external pterygoid nnisele,with the internal maxillary artery lying either upon or beneath it. If superficial to the muscle it had better be cleaned, divided, and held aside with a hook.] The External Pterygoid Muscle (Fig. 191, 1) arises by two heads, one from the outer surface of the external pterygoid plate, and the tuberosity of the palate and maxillary bones ; the other from the under surface of the sphenoid below the pterygoid crest. Its fibres run transversely to be inserted into the hollow on the front of the neck of the jaw, and into the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the joint.