REMOVAL OF THE BRAIN. 297 posterior part of the occipito-frontalis and are distributed to the scalp, communicating with the small occipital nerve and with the fellow nerve of the opposite side. The Occipital Artery [external carotid] lies close to the great occip- ital nerve, but its relation to it is inconstant. It ramifies on the back of the scalp, anastomosing with the artery of the opposite side, and with the posterior auricular and temporal arteries of the same side. The vein opens into the internal jugular. The Temporal Fascia will be fully exposed by removing the temporal artery and the branches of nerves over it. It is attached above to the temporal ridge on the frontal, parietal, and temporal bones, and below to the zygoma, where it is split so as to be attached to both lips of its upper border ; between the layers are the small orbital branch of the temporal artery and the temporal branch of the orbital nerve of the superior maxillary. It is pierced by the middle temporal artery and the temporal branch of the orbital nerve, and gives origin to fibres of the temporal muscle by its deep surface. The Temporal Muscle will be exposed in part by removing the fascia covering it. It arises from the temporal fossa and from the under surface of the temporal fascia, and its fibres are seen to con- verge to a tendon, which will be found to be inserted into the coronoid process of the lower jaw in a subsequent dissection. Removal of the Brain. [Both sides of the scalp having been dissected, the knife should be drawn round the skull, marking out a line an inch above the orbit in front, and half an inch above the occipital protuberance behind, and passing through the temporal muscle between those points. The outer plate of the skull is to be carefully sawn through, particularly at the anterior and posterior extremities of the temporal ridge, and at the occiput. With the chisel the remaining thickness of the skull can then be readily divided without injuring the brain, and the calvaria removed.] Upon Removing the Skull-cap the rough outer surface of the dura mater will be seen, and it should be noticed that it formed the internal periosteum of the calvaria, which will be found to be bare. The inner surface of the skull-cap presents a longitudinal groove in the median line, which corresponds to the superior longitudinal sinus, and on each side may frequently be seen depressions of variable size corresponding to the Pacchionian bodies. The groove for the middle meningeal artery will be seen on the inner surface of the parietal bone. The dura mater is cream coloured, but often has a bluish appearance, resulting from its translucency, which allows the veins of