147 THE PERONEUS LONGUS. Branches of the dorsalis pedis artery. The Tarsal artery arises immediately below the annular ligament, and crosses the foot beneath the extensor brevis digitorum to anas- tomose with the arteries about the external malleolus. The Metatarsal artery arises lower than the preceding and near the bases of the metatarsal hones. It also runs outwards beneath the extensor brevis digitorum, and gives off three interosseous branches to the outer spaces. These run forward upon the interossei muscles, and bifurcate at the roots of the toes to supply the adjacent sides of two toes each, the outer one giving off a branch also to the outer side of the little toe. The anterior and posterior perforating arteries of the plantar arch join these interosseous arteries at their origins and points of bifurcation. The Communicating branch passes between the heads of the first dorsal interosseous muscle to the sole of the foot, where it joins the plantar arch (p. 139). The Dorsalis Pollicis (yel hallucis) artery runs forward upon, the great toe and, after giving a branch to its inner side, bifurcates to supply the adjacent sides of the first and second toes. The Anterior Tibial Nerve (Fig. 75,4) is a branch of the external popliteal nerve, and reaches the anterior tibial artery by piercing the fibres of the extensor longus digitorum. It lies to the outer side cf the artery in the upper part of the leg, but crosses it about the middle, reaching its outer side again at the ankle. Its muscular relations are the same as those of the artery, with which it passes under the annular ligament. In the leg it supplies the four extensor muscles, and as soon as it enters the foot divides into two branches. The outer branch (19) is distributed to the extensor brevis digitorum and the articulations of the foot and ankle joint, having upon it a gangli- form enlargement; the inner branch (16) lies to the outer side of the dorsal artery, and becomes cutaneous in the interval between the great toe and next, the adjacent sides of which it supplies. [The peroneal muscles are to be exposed on the outer side of the leg by removing the fascia covering them, when a strong intermus- cular septum will be found attached to the fibula on each side, sepa- rating them from the muscles of the front and back of the leg. A portion of the fascia is to be left below the malleolus to form an external annular ligament.] The Peroneus Longus (Fig. 72, 7) arises from the upper half of the outer surface of the fibula ; from the intermuscular septa on each side, and from the fascia. It ends in a strong tendon, which lies l 2