337 THE INTERNAL MAMMARY ARTERY. left side, and may be considered to be a branch of the first part of the subclavian. 1. The Vertebral Artery (Fig. 178, 5) is seen now in only a small part of its course. It ascends between the scalenus anticus and longus colli muscles, being crossed by the inferior thyroid artery and, on the left side, by the thoracic duct ; and enters the foramen in the transverse process of the 6th cervical vertebra (usually), being accompanied by a branch from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. The artery passes through the transverse processes of all the upper cervical vertebrae, giving off muscular and spinal branches in its course, and is seen, in the suboccipital region, to wind inwards upon the atlas and enter the foramen magnum, to “£• supply the brain. The Vertebral vein has no course in the skull, but commences in small branches about the atlas. It takes the same course as the artery, receiving corresponding branches and also the ascending cervical and deep cervical veins, and after cross- ing the subclavian artery, opens into the termination of the subclavian vein. It often passes through the foramen in the transverse process of the seventh cervical vertebra. 2. The Internal Mammary Artery (Fig. 178, 4) arises from the lower surface of the subclavian artery, and at once descends into the thorax, being crossed superficially and obliquely by the phrenic nerve. The left artery has been seen to pass through the anterior mediastinum, but the right is excluded by the pleura, which binds it to the costal cartilages. Both arteries pass between the triangularis sterni muscle and the costal cartilages, and divide opposite the seventh costal cartilage into two terminal branches—superior epi- gastric and musculo-phrenic. Fig. 178.—Plan of the great arteries 1. Innominate. 2. Common carotid. 3. Subclavian. 4. Internal mammary. 5. Vertebral. 6. Thyroid axis. the right side of neck (from Wilson). 7. Inferior thyroid. 8. Ascending cervical. 9. Transverse cervical. 10. Supra-scapular. 11. Superior intercostal and deep cervical. z