ARTERIES OF THE BRAIN. 487 2. A small Anterior Spinal artery (2), which joins its fellow of the opposite side to form a small trunk running down the anterior sur- face of the spinal cord. 3. A small Posterior Meningeal* artery (4) to the dura mater. 4. The Posterior' Inferior Cerebellar artery (5), which passes back- ward to the posterior part of the inferior surface of the cerebellum, and anastomoses with the other cerebellar arteries. The Branches of the Basilar Artery are :— 1. The Anterior Inferior Cerebellar arteries, a pair of small branches passing to the anterior part of the infeiior surface of the cerebellum on each side, and anastomosing with the other cerebellar arteries. These are only two of the following. 2. Transverse arteries of the Pons, four or five on each side, which supply the pons Varolii, and one of which, the auditory, accompanies the auditory nerve into the temporal bone. 3. The Superior Cerebellar arteries (7), which arise close to the bi- furcation, having the third pair of nerves between them and the pos- terior cerebral arteries. Each artery winds round the crus cerebri, parallel to the fourth nerve, to the upper surface of the cerebellum, where it anastomoses with its fellow and with the inferior cerebellar arteries. 4. The Posterior Cerebral arteries (8), which are the terminal branches of the basilar trunk. Each artery winds round the crus cerebri, par- allel to the superior cerebellar artery but separated from it by the third nerve, and is distributed to the under surface of the posterior lobe of the cerebrum, where it anastomoses with the middle cerebral artery. It gives off small branches to the locus perforatus posticus, and a choroid artery to the velum interpositum. The Internal Carotid Artery (Fig. 252, 10) has been traced to the anterior clinoid process of the sphenoid bone, close to which it was divided in removing the brain. The artery reaches the base of the brain close to the outer side of the optic commissure, and at once breaks up into three branches—the anterior and middle cerebral, and the posterior communicating arteries. 1. The Anterior Cerebral artery (13) runs forward in the longitu- dinal fissure, and, turning round the corpus callosum, is distributed to the anterior part of the cerebrum. The arteries of the two sides are united at the commencement of the fissure by a short transverse branch, the anterior communicating artery (14). 2. The 3Iiddle Cerebral artery (12) is a larger branch, which runs in the fissure of Sylvius between the anterior and middle lobes, and reaches the surface of the brain, where it anastomoses with the