THE CCELIAC AXIS. 220 thus entering successively the right hypochondriac, the right lumbar, and the umbilical regions. The first or ascending portion reaches from the pylorus to the under surface of the right lobe of the liver, where it is in close proximity to the gall-bladder. It is covered both in front and behind by a pro- longation from the lesser omentum, and is therefore movable with the stomach. Behind it are the vena portae, the common bile duct, and the gastro-duodenal artery. The second or descending portion is covered in front by the perito- neum, which binds it to the surface of the right kidney, in front of which it descends for about three inches behind the ascending colon. It lies close to the outer side of the head of the pancreas, with the pan- creatico-duodenal arteries intervening, and into its posterior surface the biliary and pancreatic ducts open. The third or transverse ptortion is fixed to the abdominal wall at the line of attachment of the meso-colon, and therefore has no proper peri- toneal covering. It is crossed by the superior mesenteric artery and vein, and lying upon the vena cava, and upon the aorta between the crura of the diaphragm, it gradually ascends from the level of the third to that of the second lumbar vertebra, at the left side of which it becomes the jejunum. Immediately above it is the body of the pancreas with the pancreatico-duodenal arteries. This is the most fixed portion of the small intestine, and, owing to the weight of the remainder of the bowel, it is at the junction of the duodenum with the jejunum that laceration most commonly occurs in cases of abdo- minal injury. The Pancreas (Fig. 113, io, 13) lies transversely in the abdomen, occupying the right lumbar, epigastric, and left hypochondriac regions ; the head being embraced by the duodenum, the body cross- ing the aorta between the coeliac axis and the superior mesenteric artery, and the tail touching the spleen. It was covered by the lesser bag of the peritoneum, and from right to left it crosses the vena portae, the vena cava, and the aorta between the crura of the diaphragm; and then lies over nearly the whole length of the splenic vein, crossing the two mesenteric veins as they ascend to join it. The duct runs along the whole length of the gland to join the common bile duct, which lies in the groove between the duodenum and pancreas ; and the united ducts open very obliquely into the back of the second part of the duodenum. The Bile Duct (Fig. 113, 7) should be traced up to the liver, where it will be found to commence in the right and left hepatic ducts, which emerge from the transverse fissure ; these unite to form the