44 FRONT OF THE FORE-ARM. Fig. 16. The Flexor Longus Pollicis (Fig. 16, 5) arises from the whole of the anterior surface of the radius between the oblique line and the at- tachment of the pronator quadratus, and from the outer half of the interosseous membrane in nearly its whole length. It very generally has a small additional origin, by a slip of very variable size, from the outer side of the coro- noid process of the ulna. A single round tendon passes beneath the annular ligament and through the palm of the hand, between the two heads of the flexor brevis pollicis, to be inserted into the terminal phalanx of the thumb. The Flexor Profundus Digitorum (per- forans) (Fig. 16, 4) arises from the anterior surface of the ulna between the coronoid pro- cess (which it embraces) and the origin of the pronator quadratus, and from the adjacent half of the interosseous membrane ; also from the upper two-thirds of the inner surface of the ulna, extending to the olecranon process and the posterior border of the bone, to which an aponeurosis is attached from which some of the fibres arise. The muscle ends in four tendons (that to the index finger alone being quite separate in the fore-arm), which pass beneath the annular ligament, and after giving origin to the lumbricales muscles in the palm, pierce the tendons of the flexor sublimis opposite the first phalanges, and are inserted into the bases of the third phalanges of the four fingers. The two preceding muscles are direct flexors of the thumb and fingers, and afterwards of the carpus. The flexor longus pollicis is supplied by the median nerve; the flexor profundus Fig. 16.—Deep muscles of the fore-arm (from Wilson). 1. Internal lateral ligament of the elbow-joint. 2. Anterior ligament. 3. Orbicular ligament of the head of the radius. 4. Flexor profundus digitorum (the lumbricales removed). 5. Flexor longus pollicis. 6. Pronator quadratus. 7. Adductor pollicis. 8. Dorsal interosseous of the middle, and palmar interosseous of the ring finger. 9. Dorsal interosseous muscle of the ring finger, and palmar inter- osseous of the little finger.