117 THE BACK OF THE THIGH. The Popliteal Vein (Fig. 55, 3) is formed by the junction of the anterior and posterior tibial veins at the lower border of the popliteus. The vein lies superficially to the artery, and to its inner side at the lower part of the space, but crosses to the outer side above. It receives branches corresponding to those of the artery and, at a variable point, the external saphena vein, which lies on the back of the leg between the heads of the gastrocnemius, opens into it. Some lymphatic glands are placed close to the artery, into which lymphatics, from the back of the leg, discharge themselves. The Back op the Thigh. [The skin left on the back of the thigh is to be removed, and the small sciatic nerve traced as far as convenient, after which the fascia should be removed, and the hamstring muscles, with the sciatic nerve, cleaned.] The Hamstring Muscles (Figs. 53 and 54) are three in number, viz., the biceps on the outer side, and the semi-tendinosus and semi- membranosus on the inner side. The biceps and semi-tendinosus, which arise in common, are superficial to the semi-membranosus near the tuber ischii, and the semi-tendinosus maintains this relation to the semi-membranosus throughout. The short head of the biceps will be found on the outer side of the lower part of the femur. The Biceps (Fig. 53,19) or outer hamstring arises by its long head from the anterior or lower of the two surfaces on the tuber ischii, in common with the semi-tendinosus, and from the great sacro-sciatic ligament. It crosses the great sciatic nerve and, by diverging from the semi-membranosus in the lower fourth of the thigh, forms the outer boimdary of the popliteal space. The short head (20), which is fleshy, arises from the outer side of the linea aspera as high as the insertion of the gluteus maxinnis, and from its outer division to within two inches of the condyle, and from the external inter-mus- cular septum. The two heads having united opposite the lower end of the femur, the muscle is inserted into the outer side of the head of the fibula. The tendon splits to enclose the long external lateral ligament, and one portion of it therefore intervenes between the long and the short external lateral ligaments of the knee-joint (Fig. 54, 2). The Semi-tendinosus (Fig. 53, 19) arises by fleshy fibres in common with the tendinous origin of the biceps, from the anterior of the two surfaces on the back of the tuber ischii. It forms one of the inner boundaries of the popliteal space, and ends in a long