323 THE OBLIQUUS INFERIOR. The Obliquus Inferior (Fig. 174, 9) muscle lies transversely in the orbit beneath the rectus inferior. It arises from the superior Fie. 174. maxilla behind the lachrymal groove, and passing below the inferior rectus, but between the external rectus and globe, is inserted into the sclerotic above the level of the rectus extemus and close to the in- sertion of the obliquus super- ior. The actions of the muscles of the orbit are not very readily appreciated, owing to the fact that the movements of the eyeball depend upon the com- bined influence of several of them. The action of the Levator palpebrse is implied by its name; it raises the eyelid, and therefore when paralysed from some affection of the third nerve, the characteristic dropping of the lid, ptosis, results. The Recti muscles, when acting together, would draw the eye-ball towards the back of the orbit, but each, when acting separably would draw the front of the eye in its own direction ; the superior and inferior recti having in addition a tendency to draw the eye inwards. Internal and external strabismus are produced by the direct action of the internal and external recti respectively. The Oblique muscles when acting alone are rotators of the eye-ball on its own4xis;‘the superior oblique rolling the eye downwards and outwards, the iirfirior oblique rolling it upwards and outwards ; but these musifes aWtiys act in combination with the recti, and thus give the oblique moveinents to the eye-ball. The obliqui are not used unless the spectator, or the object seen, is moving. If all the contents of the orbit are removed, the orbital branch of the superior maxillary nerve • (temporo-malar) may be seen passing through the splieno-maxillaryifissure, and dividing into two branches ■/ 1 r.- C 1 ■ & Fig. 174.—Muscles of the eye-ball. The view is taken from the outer side of the right orbit (from Wilson). 1. Levator palpebrro superioris. 2. Obliqnus superior. 3. Rectus superior. 4. Insertion of rectus extemus. 5. Double origin of rectus extemus. 6. Optic nerve. 7- Rectus interims. 8. Rectus inferior. 9. Obliquus inferior. T 2