415 LIGAMENTS OF THE LARYNX. The Nerves (Fig. 180) of the larynx are the superior and the inferior (or recurrent) branches of the pneumogastric. The superior laryngeal nerve (9) has been seen to give a branch {external laryngeal) to the crico-thyroid muscle, and then to pierce the thyro-liyoid membrane with the superior laryngeal artery. It supplies the mucous membrane of the larynx and back of the tongue, and gives a branch to the arytaenoideus muscle, besides a communi- cating branch to the inferior laryngeal nerve. The inferior or recurrent nerve (21) is the motor nerve of the larynx, and has been seen to take a different course on the two sides, winding around the subclavian artery on the right, and around the aorta on the left side, but in the larynx the "nerves have similar distributions. Each nerve running up the side of the trachea passes beneath the border of the inferior constrictor of the pharynx and beneath the ala of the thyroid cartilage, to end in branches to the muscles of the larynx. It supplies all the muscles of the larynx except the crico- thyroid, and thus one muscle, the arytaenoideus, is supplied from two sources, though it is doubtful whether the superior nerve does not perforate the arytaenoideus without supplying it, in order to reach the mucous membrane. [In order to see the ligaments which bind the several parts of the larynx together, it will be necessary to remove cautiously all the muscular fibres and mucous membrane.] The Thyrohyoid Ligament (Fig. 216, 8) connects the upper border of the thyroid cartilage with the hyoid bone. It is composed of yellow elastic tissue, and may be divided into a central portion or membrane, and two rounded lateral portions (9), which pass from the great cornu of the hyoid bone to the superior cornu of the thyroid cartilage, and in which a nodule of cartilage is often developed. The thyro-liyoid membrane is perforated by the superior laryngeal nerve and artery. The Crico-thyroid Membrane or Ligament (Fig. 216, l, m) is composed of elastic tissue, and passes between the borders of the cricoid and thyroid cartilages in the median line, but at the sides is prolonged to the inferior vocal cords, with which it is incorporated. The Crico-tracheal Ligament is between the lower border of the cricoid cartilage and the upper ring of the trachea, and is a simple membrane like that between the several rings of the trachea. Capsular Ligaments surround the articular extremities of the cartilages, which are also furnished with synovial membranes. These exist in the articulations between the cricoid and the inferior cornua