VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 240 more evident in the child than in the adult. By inverting the pyloric end the pylorus or pyloric valve will he seen, a ring of the mucous membrane being projected by a set of strong circular fibres, surrounding the intestine and acting as a sphincter muscle. The mucous membrane is thick and soft, and of a pink colour when recent; it is thickest near the pylorus and thinnest at the greater end, which is the spot therefore where perforation, whether during life or from post-mortem digestion, takes place. Minute Anatomy.—The mucous membrane is divided into a series of shallow alveoli more or less hexagonal in form (stomach cells), at the bottom of which two or more tubuli (stomach tubes) open. These are arranged side by side (Fig. 120), their length being from i to ^ inch, and their diameter from 505 ggn inch; the epithelium of the alveoli is columnar. In addition to the simple tubes, there are in man near the cardiac end a few compound tubules having from two to five subdivisions (Fig. 121). The lower ends of the simple tubes and the sub- divisions of the compound tubes contain special peptic cells, and secrete the gastric juice. In addition to these near the pylorus are the gastric mucous glands (Fig. 122), mostly com- pound in man. In these the columnar epithelium of the alveoli is prolonged into the tubes nearly to the blind extremities, which are filled with granules. Lenticular glands or lymphoid follicles are scattered over the surface of the gastric mucous membrane. The Small Intestines extend from the pylorus to the ileo-csecal valve, averaging twenty feet in length, and have certain general characteristics in common; thus, they are of an imiform calibre throughout, and their external surface is smooth and regular. They have four coats, viz. peritoneal, muscular (longitudinal and circular), areolar, and mucous. The peritoneal coat is not found throughout, thus the first part of the duodenum is completely invested except Fig. 120.—Perpendicular section of the stomach in the pyloric region : showing its coats and the gastric glands; from the pig (from "Wilson, after Kolliker). 1. Gastric glands. 2. Muscular layer of the mucous membrane. 3. Submucous coat, in which a vessel has been divided. 4. Transverse fibres of the muscular coat. 5. Longitudinal fibres of the mus ular coat. 6. Serous coat.