THE PELVIS. 264 part, and should be specially noticed in the present view. It is seen to extend from the deep perinseal fascia or anterior triangular ligament, to the posterior layer of the triangular ligament derived from the pelvic fascia and continuous with the capsule of the prostate. It is nearly an inch in length and is not quite horizontal in its position, the anterior extremity being about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and the posterior a little lower. This is the portion of the urethra opened by the deep incision in lithotomy, and it should be noticed how much its position will vary according to the movements of the staff,—whether that instrument be hooked under the pubes or depressed towards the rectum. The Pelvic Fascia should be traced on to the prostate, bladder, and rectum, and the relations of those organs noticed. The Rectum (Fig. 147, io) is about eight inches long, and extends from the left sacro-iliac synchondrosis to the anus, lying a little to the left of the median line of the pelvis. It is divided into three portions, a superior or vertical, a middle or horizontal, and an inferior or vertical portion ; the upper two parts of the intestine being closely attached to the front of the sacrum and coccyx, while the third part passes through the levator ani and sphincter muscles to the anus, immediately in front of the tip of the coccyx. The peritoneum surrounds the first vertical portion and binds it to the sacrum, forming the meso-rectum ; the membrane only covers the front of the upper part of the second portion as it forms the recto-vesical pouch ; and has no connection with the third part at all. (Thus the relations of the rectum nearly correspond to those of the duodenum as respects the peritoneum, v, p. 220.) The first part of the rectum has in front of it the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum and bladder in the male. The bladder lies immediately over the second portion of the rectum, and between the two organs are the vesiculas seminales and vasa deferentia. The prostate is close above the commencement of the third portion of the rectum, but as the bowel turns down to the coccyx, an interval is left between it and the urethra, corresponding to the perineum proper or surface between the back of the scrotum and the anus. [The left vesicula seminalis should be dissected out that its posi- tion may be seen, and the vas deferens and ureter of the left side are also to be traced out; the recto-vesical pouch of peritoneum is to be laid open along the side so that its extent may be fully appreciated.] The Bladder (Fig. 147, 2) varies in position according to its state