THE MALE PERINEUM. 174 muscles dissected out. The accelerator urinae is in the median line, the erector penis parallel to the ramus of the pubes, and the trans- versus perinaei crosses between tliem posteriorly ; the muscles thus bounding a triangular space in which a part of the triangular liga- ment is seen.] Superficial Muscles of tlie Perinaeum. The Accelerator Urinse (Fig. 88, 8) (ejaculator seminis or bulbo- cavernosus) is a single muscle, composed of two symmetrical halves united in the middle line by a delicate fibrous raphe. The fibres arise from the central point of the perinaeum and from the fibrous raphe in the middle line, and are thus inserted:—the posterior fibres, which are nearly transverse in their direction, overlie the bulb and are lost upon the triangular ligament; the middle fibres enclose the urethra and corpus spongiosum ; and the anterior fibres enclose the entire penis, including the dorsal vessels. The Erector Penis (Fig. 88, io) covers the crus penis on the ramus of the os pubis. It arises from the anterior and inner surface of the tuberosity of the ischium, and also from the ramus of the ischium, and ends in an aponeurosis which is inserted into the sides of the crus penis. The Transversus Perinaei (Fig. 88, 14) varies in size, and may be divided into two slips. It arises from the inner side of the ramus of the ischium, and meets its fellow muscle of the opposite side in the central point of the perinaeum, where it is also blended with the fibres of the accelerator urinae and sphincter ani. The action of the accelerator is to expel the contents of the urethra by its sudden and spasmodic contraction. It is not put in action during the greater part of the act of micturition ; but when the flow of urine has ceased, it serves to eject the small remaining portion, or may be used to arrest the flow of urine suddenly, when its action gives rise to considerable pain. Its action during coition is expressed by the name ejaculator seminis, and its anterior fibres assist materi- ally in producing erection of the penis by compressing the dorsal vein. The erector penis assists somewhat in the production of erection, by compressing the corpus cavernosum. Muscular Nerves (Fig. 88, 9). Passing either over or through the transversus perinaei muscle will be found branches of the pudic nerve, which arise from it either separately or in common with the anterior superficial perinaeal nerve. These branches are distributed to the muscles of the perinaeum, and a good-sized branch may be followed through the fibres of the accelerator urinae to the bulb of the urethra (bulbo-urethral nerve of Cruveilhier).