POSTERIOR TRIANGLE OF NECK. 310 overlain by the levator anguli scapulae. In some subjects, where the apex of the triangle is wider than usual, a portion of the complexus may be seen, and will be recognised by the vertical direction of its fibres. Not unfrequently, if the attachment of the sterno-mastoid to the clavicle is not well developed, both the anterior scalenus and the phrenic nerve lying on it are seen in the posterior triangle. The triangle is subdivided into two portions by the posterior belly of the omo-liyoid muscle, the height of which above the clavicle may vary, the contents of each subdivision being modified accordingly. The upper or occipital portion contains the branches of the super- ficial cervical plexus derived from the first four cervical nerves ; the spinal accessory nerve (which may be traced into the trapezius, where it communicates with branches of the 3rd and 4th cervical nerves); muscular branches of the cervical plexus; the transverse cervical vein ; and the (jlandulce concatenates or lymphatic glands placed along the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid. The lower or clavicular portion contains the brachial plexus and its supraclavicular branches ; the third part of the subclavian artery ; the transverse cervical artery ; the suprascapular vessels ; and the external jugular vein, all of which must now be dissected. [The process of deep fascia binding down the tendon of the omo- hyoid is to be traced to its attachment below and then carefully removed. The external jugular vein and the transverse cervical and suprascapular arteries and veins are then to be carefully dissected and preserved, and the small nerve to the subclavius from the brachial plexus must also be found and preserved. A process of deep fascia connected with the scalenus anticus binds down the subclavian artery and must be removed to expose it.] The tendon of the Omo-hyoid Muscle (Fig. 164, 29) is bound down to the back of the clavicle and to the first rib by a process of the deep cervical fascia, so that either belly of the muscle may act on this fixed point. Upon the back of the tendon may be traced a branch of the descendens noni nerve, which supplies it. The origin and insertion of the muscle are found in other dissections. The Transverse Cervical Artery (Fig. 164, 25) is generally found at the level of the tendon of the omo-hyoid, and the vein a little above it, so that their relation to the subdivisions of the triangle is different. The artery, a branch of the thyroid axis [subclavian], passes trans- versely under the sterno-mastoid, crosses the posterior triangle, and divides under the border of the trapezius into the superficial cervical and the posterior scapular arteries. The superficial cervical goes to