421 OCCIPITO-ATLANTAL LIGAMENT. ments, which are frequently absent in the cervical region, hut are round and thick in the dorsal, and thin and membranous in the lumbar region. Ligaments of the Atlas, Axis, and Occiput. [In order to examine the special ligaments of the first two cervical vertebrae and the occipital bone, it will be convenient to separate the whole of the cervical from the dorsal spine.] The ligaments of the first two vertebrae and the occipital bone may be conveniently divided into (1) those external to, and (2) those internal to the vertebral canal. The external ligaments more or less resemble the ligaments common to the vertebral column, but the internal ligaments have special relation to the movements of nuta- tion and rotation which are peculiar to this region. 1. The External Ligaments are the Anterior, Posterior, and Lateral Occipito-Atlantal, and the Anterior and Posterior Atlanto-axial liga- ments ; besides Capsular ligaments for the articular processes of the Fig. 221. vertebrae and the condyles of the occipital bone. The Anterior Occipito-Atlan- tal Ligament (Fig. 221) consists of a superficial and a deep portion. The superficial portion (i) is round, and is attached to the basilar pro- cess of the occipital bone above, and to the anterior tubercle of the atlas below. The deep portion (2) is broad and membranous, and is attached to the occipital bone close to the foramen magnum above, and to the upper margin of the anterior arch of the atlas below. Fig. 221.—Anterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis, and occipital bone (from Wilson). 1. Anterior round occipito-atlantal ligament. • 2. Anterior broad occipito-atlantal ligament. 3. Commencement of the anterior common ligament. 4. Anterior atlanto-axial ligament, continuous inferiorly with the commencement of the anterior common ligament. 5. One of the atlanto-axial capsular ligaments; that on the opposite side has been removed to show the approximated surfaces of the articular processes (6). 7. One of the occipito-atlantal cap- sular ligaments. The most ex- ternal of these fibres constitute the lateral occipito-atlantal ligament.