219 THE DUODENUM. artery the small intestine will be at once set free, but the large in- testine must be carefully removed by dividing the meso-colon close to the intestine throughout, and lastly by cutting the inferior mes- enteric artery.] The Gastro-duodenal Artery (Fig. 112, 13) can be traced out by turning up the stomach. After passing behind the duodenum it divides into the right gastro-epiploic and the superior pancreatico- duodenal arteries. The Gastro-epiploica. dextra (23) runs from right to left along the great curvature of the stomach and between the folds of the great omentum ; it anastomoses with the gastro-epiploica sinistra of the splenic artery. The Pancreatico-duodenalis superior (17) will be found between the duodenum and the head of the pancreas, the latter of which it sur- rounds ; it anastomoses with the small branch from the commence- ment of the superior mesenteric artery called the pancreatico-duode- nalis inferior (Fig. 110, 13), and gives branches to both pancreas and duodenum. The Splenic Artery (Fig. 112, 20) can now be seen in the whole of its course to the spleen, near which it breaks up into four or five branches which enter the hilum or fissure on the concave surface of that organ. As it passes along the upper border of the pancreas it gives off small branches to it (pancreaticae parvce), and one (pancreatica magna) which runs along the whole length of the gland with the duct. It also gives small branches (vasa brevia) (14) to the great end of the stomach, and one large one {gastro-epiploica sinistra) (18), which rims along the great curvature to anastomose with the gastro-epiploica dextra of the hepatic. Upon the hepatic and splenic arteries are corre- sponding plexuses of the sympathetic. The Splenic Vein (Fig. 114, 3) is placed below its artery and lies beliind the pancreas. It receives branches corresponding to those of the artery, and also at about the middle of the pancreas, the inferior mesenteric vein. It is joined by the superior mesen- teric vein behind the head of the pancreas, the two forming the vena portoe. [The pancreas and duodenum should now be thoroughly defined, and the bile and the pancreatic ducts traced to their entrance into the intestine. If desired, the stomach may be removed by tying and cut- ting it near the pylorus, and at the oesophagus.] The Duodenum (Fig. 113, 11) is from eight to ten inches long (twelve finger-breadths), and makes a peculiar bend upon itself be- fore it passes beneath the mesenteric artery, to become the jejunum ;