THE TRIANGULAR LIGAMENT. 175 Surgery.—The triangular space enclosed by the three superficial muscles, and of which the floor is formed by the triangular ligamebt or deep perinaeal fascia, is important surgically as being the point to which the knife reaches in the incision for lateral lithotomy. In the first incision the surgeon cuts freely through the superficial structures, dividing the superficial perinaeal and inferior hsemorrlioidal vessels and nerves, and aiming at the lower part of this space, at which point the finger will feel somewhat indistinctly the staff in the urethra. The deeper incision necessarily divides the transverse muscle and artery, together with the lower part of the triangular ligament, and enables the operator to reach the staff in the mem- branous portion of the urethra. It should be noticed how the small space between the anus and the bulb of the urethra can be increased by drawing the whole penis upwards ; this fact is of importance in relation to median lithotomy, which is performed in this space, and in which operation there is some risk of wounding the bulb. It is obvious that any cutting operation in the median line of the perinseuni would be accompanied by but little haemorrhage, until the vascular structure of the bulb or corpus spongiosum urethrae was reached. [The accelerator urinae is to be divided in the middle line, and dissected from the bulb beneath and from the triangular ligament, but its anterior fibres must not be interfered with. The transversus perinaei is to be removed, and the erector penis detached from the bone with the crus penis, which will be seen to be a vascular body attached to the ramus of the pubes for nearly an inch. This is to be drawn forward, a branch of artery going to it being carefully pre- served ; the triangular ligament will then be exposed.] The posterior part of the Corpus Spongiosum Urethrae (Tig. 89, 6) will be seen to be a dark, vascular body, which expands to form the bulb, immediately in front of the triangular ligament. The Bulb is slightly expanded from side to side, and consists of two halves united by a delicate septum of fibrous tissue. It is closely connected with the triangular ligament, with which its delicate fibrous covering is continuous. The Anterior Triangular Ligament of the urethra or Deep Perinaeal Pascia (Fig. 89, 8) is a strong process of fibrous tissue stretching across the pubic arch, being attached to the rami of the pubes and ischium on each side beliind the crura penis. The apex of the ligament is connected with the sub-pubic liga- ment, and the base has been seen to be continuous with the deep layer of superficial fascia which turns around the transversus perinaei ;