MECKEL’S GANGLION. 402 variety, and has peculiar spindle-shaped cells connected with the terminations of the olfactory nerve. The remainder of the mucous membrane has columnar and ciliated cells, except at the anterior part corresponding to the cartilaginous portion of the nose, where the epithelium is squamous. The Olfactory Nerve (Fig. 210, a) is the special nerve of smell, and its branches, which are derived from the olfactory bulb, reach the nasal cavity by piercing the cribriform plate of the ethmoid hone. The branches are distributed to the olfactory region, i.e., upon the superior and middle turbinate hones and the upper third of the septum, hut are very difficult to follow, owing to their being destitute of the white substance of Schwann. The nerves of common sensation to the nose are derived from Meckel’s ganglion, and will be afterwards dissected. [With a strong pair of scissors the turbinate bones may be readily cut, so as to expose the several openings into the three meatuses.] The Nasal Duct (ductus ad ncisum) communicates between the lachrymal sac and the inferior meatus of the nose. It grooves the superior maxillary, lachrymal, and inferior turbinate bones, and consists of a fibrous tube lined with mucous membrane having a ciliated epithelium. The nasal branch of the fifth nerve (ophthalmic division) (Fig. 210, d) may be found in a groove on the under surface of the nasal bone in its passage from the orbit to the face, and gives a branch to the septum (pp. 320 and 356). Dissection of Meckel’s Ganglion, etc. Before beginning this dissection, the student should ascertain the position of the spheno-palatine foramen (Fig. 209,«), opposite to which the spheno-palatine ganglion is placed, and through which the internal maxillary artery enters the nose. This will be found on either half of the skull immediately behind the superior meatus of the nose. [The mucous membrane lining the vertical plate of the palate bone is to be removed, and the thin plate of bone chiseled through immediately below the spheno-palatine foramen, when the palatine nerves and arteries will be exposed enclosed in a tube of membrane. By dissecting the mucous membrane from the hard palate the termi- nation of these nerves can be traced. An attempt may be made by working carefully with the bone-forceps and chisel to open up the Vidian canal in the root of the pterygoid process, in order to expose the Vidian nerve and artery, but the proceeding is very difficult, and seldom satisfactory in its results.]