423 THE CRUCIFORM LIGAMENTS. The Posterior Atlanto-Axial Ligament (Fig. 222, 5) re- sembles the posterior occipito-atlantal ligament, and is composed of white fibrous tissue, lined by a layer of yellow elastic tissue. It ex- tends between the posterior arch of the atlas and the laminae of the axis. 2. The Internal Ligaments are the Occipito-Axial, the Cruciform, and the Odontoid ligaments. [To expose these ligaments it will be necessary to saw through the occipital bone obliquely on each side of the foramen magnum. The posterior part of the bone being removed, the arches of the atlas and axis are to be cut through on each side and removed, and any re- mains of the spinal cord dissected away with the dura-mater, when the occipito-axial ligament will be exposed.] The Occipito-Axial Ligament (Fig. 223, 5) (apparatus ligamen- tosus colli) is continuous with the posterior common ligament. It is Fig. 224. attached below to the back of the body of the axis, and above to the basilar groove of the occipital bone above the foramen magnum, through which it passes. [The occipito-axial ligament is to be divided and turned up and down, when the cruciform ligament of the atlas and axis will be brought into view, and immediately above the transverse portion will be seen the two oblique odontoid ligaments.] The Cruciform Ligament (Fig. 224) consists of a strong trans- verse ligament and two small vertical slips. The Transverse Ligament of the Atlas (Fig. 224, 2) is attached Fig. 224.—Posterior view of the ligaments connecting the atlas, axis, and occipital bone (from Wilson). 1. Superior part of the occipito-axial ligament, which has been cut away in order to show the liga- ments beneath. 2. Transverse ligament of the atlas. 3. 4. Ascending and descending slips of the transverse ligament, which complete the cruciform arrangement. 5. One of the odontoid ligaments, the fellow ligament is seen on the opposite side. 6. One of the occipito-atlantal cap- sular ligaments. 7. One of the atlanto-axial capsular ligaments.