THE TONGUE. 408 The Tensor Tympani (Fig. 212, 2) arises from the under surface of the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal hone and from the Eustachian tube, and runs backwards in a distinct canal formed by the processus cochleariformis, to be inserted into the root of the handle and the processus brevis of the malleus. It is supplied by a branch from the otic ganglion. The Laxator Tympani arises from the under surface of the spine of the sphenoid bone and from the Eustachian tube, and entering the tympanum through the Glasserian fissure is inserted into the neck of the malleus. It is supplied by a branch from the chorda tympani. The Stapedius arises from the interior of the pyramid, and emerges from its apex to be inserted into the neck of the stapes. It is supplied by a branch of the facial nerve. The Laxator Tympani Minor arises from the upper margin of the meatus extemus, and is inserted into the handle and processus brevis of the malleus. It is regarded as a ligament by many anatomists. The Tongue. [The tongue and larynx, which were laid aside, are to be examined without separating them. The branches of nerves and the several muscles, which were necessarily divided in removing the tongue, are to be identified before the examination of the organ itself is proceeded with.] The Tongue (Fig. 213) is connected with the os hyoides by mus- cular fibres, and by a membrane (hyo-glossal) which is deeply placed between the muscles. On its under surface and sides will be found the attachments of the extrinsic muscles of the tongue, viz., the hyo- glossus, stylo-glossus, palato-glossus, and superior constrictor (glosso- pharyngeus); and close to the median line will be seen the large genio-hyo-glossus of each side. All the anterior part of the dorsum of the tongue is covered by papillae, but behind a Y-shaped row of large (circumvallate) papillae the surface only presents the orifices of numerous mucous glands and follicles. The Papillae (Fig. 213) of the tongue are of three kinds, the Cir- cumvallate, Fungiform, and Filiform or Conical. The papillae circumvallatce (5) are from eight to fifteen in number, and are arranged in two oblique rows which meet at the foramen ccecum, a deep mucous follicle. Each papilla is surrounded by a fossa, and is covered on its free surface with secondary papillae. The circumvallate papillae are the special organs of taste, and are supplied by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve.