118 BACK OF THE THIGH. slender tendon, which lies on the semi-memhranosns and passes beyond it to be inserted into the anterior or inner side of the tibia below the inner tuberosity, lying beneath the tendon of the sartorius and below that of the gracilis. Its fibres are crossed by a tendinous intersection (Fig. 54, 3). The Semi-membranosus (Fig. 53, 21), though one of the internal hamstrings, is external to the biceps at its origin. It arises by a strong tendon from the posterior or upper surface on the tuber ischii, and, passing beneath the origins of the biceps and semi-tendinosus, spreads into a broad tendon from which the muscular fibres arise to form a thick belly. It is inserted by a strong tendon, which passes horizontally beneath the internal lateral ligament of the knee to the groove in the side of the inner tuberosity of the tibia, and gives off two expansions, one to form the posterior ligament of the knee-joint, and the other to cover the popliteus muscle (Fig. 54, 5). The hamstring muscles flex'the leg upon the thigh, and then extend the thigh upon 4he pelvis, as in walking or running ; their most important action, however, is when the leg is their fixed point, and they then prevent the pelvis and trunk from falling forward, and thus maintain the erect posture of the body. When, taking the pelvis as their fixed point, they act upon the leg or (the knee being fixed) upon the thigh, their power is applied to a lever of the third order ; when taking their fixed point below they act upon the pelvis, their power is applied to a lever of the first order. The hamstrings are supplied by the great sciatic nerve. The Great Sciatic Nerve (Fig. 53, 16) is continued from the buttock and, after leaving the quadratics femoris, lies on the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, to which it gives a branch, and passes beneath the biceps. At a variable point, but generally about the middle of the thigh, the nerve divides into the internal and external popliteal trunks, which have been already traced. Muscular branches to the hamstring muscles are given off by the nerve in this part of its course. Beneath the sciatic nerve will be seen the posterior surface of the adductor magnus, and piercing it at various points are the termina- tions of the perforating arteries from the profunda, which are now seen to supply the hamstring muscles («. p. 102). The termination of the internal circumflex artery, between the quadratus and adductor magnus can now also be more fully traced out. [Before the subject is re-turned, the gluteus minimus, pyriformis, and obturator internus should be turned aside, and the back of the hip-joint dissected, but the joint itself should not be opened. Oppor-