SIDE OF THE NECK. 338 a. The superior epigastric branch enters the fibres of the rectos abdominis muscle, and anastomoses with the epigastric branch of the external iliac, thus establishing a communication which becomes of great importance in any case of obstruction of the aorta or iliac arteries. b. The musculo-phrenic branch supplies the diaphragm, and runs outwards to anastomose with the intercostal arteries, as well as with the phrenic branches of the abdominal aorta. The other branches of the internal mammary are (c) comes nervi phrenici, a small branch accompanying the phrenic nerve and seldom seen ; (d) mediastinal and (e) pericardiac branches to those parts, from which small branches pass to form the “ sub-pleural mediastinal plexus ” (Turner); (/) anterior intercostals to the intercostal spaces, anastomosing with other intercostal branches ; and (g) perforating branches to the pectoral muscles and to the mamma. The vena comites of the internal mammary artery unite to open into the corresponding innominate or brachio-cephalic vein. 3. The Thyroid Axis (Fig. 179, 25) is a short thick trunk arising from the anterior surface of the subclavian close to the scalenus, which divides immediately into three branches, (a) inferior thyroid, (6) transversalis colli, and (c) supra-scapular or transversalis humeri. a. The Inferior Thyroid artery runs upwards and inwards, across the vertebral artery and behind the carotid sheath and sympathetic trunk, to the posterior aspect of the thyroid body, in which it anasto- moses with its fellow of the opposite side, and with both the superior thyroid arteries. Besides oesophageal, tracheal, and a small inferior laryngeal branch, it usually gives off a branch close to its origin, the ascending cervical, which ascends upon the vertebrae between the scalenus anticus and rectus capitis anticus major, supplying the pre- vertebral muscles and anastomosing with branches of the vertebral artery. The Inferior Thyroid veins pass down the front of the trachea, and frequently have a transverse communicating branch. They open into the innominate veins, the right crossing obliquely over the in- nominate artery. b. The Transverse Cervical artery runs transversely outward in front of the scalenus anticus and phrenic nerve, and has been seen, in the posterior triangle of the neck, to divide into superficial cervical and posterior scapular branches. The transverse cervical vein opens into the external jugular. This artery is frequently of small size or altogether wanting, the posterior scapular arising from the third part of the subclavian. c. The Supra-scapular artery runs outward in front of the scalenus