THE PALATE. 396 The palatoglossus muscle is a constrictor of the fauces, and grasps the bolus of food when it has passed out of the mouth, thus prevent- ing its return. The palato-pharyngeus raises the pharynx, hut its most important action is to approximate the posterior pillars of the fauces, which with the uvula then make an inclined plane along which the holus passes into the grasp of the constrictors. Both the palato-glossus and the palato-pharyngeus are supplied by branches from Meckel’s ganglion. The Amygdala or Tonsil is placed between the palato-glossus and palato-pharyngeus muscles, and is usually much shrunken after death. It consists of lymphoid tissue with a number of mucous follicles, the orifices of which may be seen on the internal surface. The outside of the tonsil is in close relation with the superior constrictor of the pharynx and with the ascending pharyngeal artery. It is to be noticed that it is anatomically impossible for any enlargement of the tonsil to obstruct the Eustachian tube, and thus produce deafness. [The tongue and the larynx are to be detached by dividing all the structures between them and the palate, and are to be carefully pre- served for subsequent examination. By inverting the skull the hard palate will then be brought into view.] The Hard Palate (Fig. 209, 7) is continuous with the soft palate, but its mucous membrane is much more dense, being inseparably united in great part with the periosteum of the maxillary and palate bones. The mucous membrane presents a median ridge indicative of the foetal division of the parts, and is thrown into more or less trans- verse folds near the anterior part, where it is prolonged on to the gums. Numerous mucous glands lie immediately beneath the mucous membrane and open upon its surface. The Gums (Fig. 208) are composed of dense fibrous tissue insepar- ably united with the periosteum of the alveolus, and covered by the mucous membrane of the mouth, which is prolonged into the sockets of the teeth, where it becomes continuous with the periodontal mem- brane covering them. The Teeth. (Fig. 208) of the upper jaw are 16 in number, viz., 4 incisors, 2 canines, 4 bicuspids, and 6 molars, the most posterior molars being the dentes sapientice or wisdom teeth. Each tooth consists of a croAvn, a neck, and a fang, and upon extracting a molar tooth it will be found to have three fangs, two being on the outer (buccal) and one on the inner (palatine) side. The teeth of the lower jaw correspond in number to those of the upper jaw, but have been necessarily interfered with in the progress