120 THE HIP-JOINT. the pectineus, the rectus and the femoral vessels; behind, the pyri- formis, obturator internus, and gemelli muscles, with the sciatic nerves and vessels lying upon them ; above, the gluteus medius and gluteus minimus, and below, the tendon of the obturator externus. The hip- joint admits of the movements of flexion, extension, abduction and adduction, rotation and circumduction. Flexion is performed by the psoas and iliacus, and indirectly by the rectus femoris : extension by the gluteus maximus, and indirectly by the hamstrings. The femur is adducted by the adductor muscles and pectineus, which at the same time rotate the bone outwards ; it is abducted by the gluteus medius, minimus, and tensor vaginae femoris. Rotation outwards is due to the gluteus maximus and the posterior fibres of medius and minimus, to the psoas, iliacus, pyriformis, obturator and gemelli muscles, and quadratus femoris ; rotation inwards to the anterior fibres of the gluteus medius, the gluteus minimus and tensor vaginae femoris. The Capsular Ligament (Fig. 58, 8) when seen from behind, will be found to be attached to the margin of the acetabulum, but to reach only about halfway down the posterior surface of the neck of the femur, the point to which it reaches varying in different subjects. In front, the capsule extends from the margin of the acetabulum to the anterior inter-trochanteric line, and is strengthened by an oblique band of fibres extending from the anterior inferior spinous process to the anterior inter-trochanteric line, to which the name ilio-femoral ligament has been given (Fig. 41, 9). The inferior attachment of the ilio-femoral liga- ment is more or less by two divergent slips, into the upper and lower extremities of the anterior inter-trochanteric line, thus form- ing what Professor Bigelow has called the Y-ligament (Fig. 57). The inner slip limits especially extension and rotation inwards ; the outer slip rotation outwards and adduction of the femur, and both have an important influ- ence on the production of the several forms of dislocation of the head of the femur. A bursa intervenes between the tendon of the psoas and the front of the hip-joint, which occasionally communicates with the synovial cavity through the capsular ligament. It should be noticed that the posterior part of the capsular liga- Fig. 57. Fig. 57.—The ilio-femoral or Y-ligament of Bigelow (from Bryant).