PELVIC LIGAMENTS. 288 ture which becomes the epididymis in the male, and has been called the organ of Rosenmiiller in the female. It consists of a number of tubes with blind extremities. Connected with the lower surface of the ovary is a venous erectile tissue, to which the name of Bulb of the Ovary has been given by the late Mr. Beeves Traer, who first described it. This is supposed to maintain the ovary in its position, and to prepare it for ttlie grasp of the Fallopian tube during the passage of the ovule. Ligaments of the Pelvis. [The remaining soft tissues are to be removed from the halves of the pelvis and the several ligaments dissected out.] Articulation of the Vertebral Column with the Pelvis (Fig. 158).—The last lumbar vertebra is connected with the sacrum by the continuation of the several ligaments common to the vertebral column, and by an intervertebral substance, which is peculiar in being of greater thickness in front than behind. There are also two special ligaments, the lumbo-sacral and ilio-lumbar. The lumbo-sacral or sacro-vertebral ligament (2) is short, thick, and triangular, being attached to the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra above, and the upper border of the sacrum below. The ilio-lumbar ligament (3) is triangular, and passes horizontally from the tip of the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra, to the crest of the ilium close above the sacro-iliac articulation. Sacro-iliac Articulation (Fig. 158).—The anterior sacro-iliac ligament (4) consists of short fibres passing between the anterior surfaces of the two bones. The posterior sacro-iliac ligament is composed of strong ligamentous bands, connecting the rough portion of the ilium behind the auricular surface of articulation, with the posterior surface of the sacrum ex- ternal to the posterior foramina. The oblique sacro-iliac ligament is a superficial portion of the posterior ligament, and reaches from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the third lateral tubercle on the sacrum. When the ilium and sacrum are separated after the dissection of the other ligaments of the pelvis, a distinct layer of cartilage will be found between the two bones, with occasionally an intervening space, the joint being an instance of ‘ amphiarthrosis.’ Sacro-Sciatic Ligaments (Fig. 58).—These ligaments have been partially exposed in the dissection of the gluteal region.