184 THE FEMALE PERINEUM. side of the ramus of the ischium, and meets its fellow muscle of the opposite side in the central perinteal body, where it is blended with the fibres of the bulbo-cavernosus and sphincter ani, and the deep sphincter vaginae. The Levator Ani (Fig. 93, 11) is divided by Savage into three parts : 1. The pubo-coccyyeus is now seen in part, its fibres having the same direction as the sphincter ani. It arises from the back of the pubes, and its fibres encircle the rectum between the superficial and deep sphincters, and are inserted into the side of the last two bones of the coccyx. 2. The obturato-coccyrjeus arises from the ilio- pubic line of division of the pelvic fascia into obturator and recto- vesical layers (white-line), and is inserted into the side of the last two bones of the coccyx. 3. The ischio-coccygeus corresponds to the coccygeus muscle as ordinarily described, and extends from the spine of the ischium to the side of the coccyx. [The bulbo-cavernosus muscle is to be divided at its origin and turned up, being dissected from the bulb of the vagina beneath and from the triangular ligament. The transversus perinsei is to be removed, and the erector clitoridis detached from the bone with the crus clitoridis, which will be seen to be a vascular body attached to the ramus of the pubes for half an inch. This is to be drawn forward, a branch of artery going to it being preserved, and the triangular ligament will be exposed.] The Bulb of the Vagina (Fig. 93, 8) (bulbus vestibuli of Kobelt) corresponds precisely to one half of the bulb of the male. It is a vascular body placed on the side of the orifice of the vagina, and enclosed in a sheath of fascia derived from the triangular ligament or deep perinaeal fascia. Each bulb is about an inch long, and is composed of a plexus of veins, which communicate with the great veins of the clitoris. The Triangular Ligament (Fig. 93) or Deep Perinaeal fascia resembles that of the male, and is a strong process of fibrous tissue stretching across the pubic arch, being attached to the rami of the pubes and ischium on each side behind the crura clitoridis. It i3 perforated by the urethra and by the vagina, with the coats of which it is firmly incorporated; it gives passage also to the terminal branches of the pudic arteries and nerves, as in the male, and to the large veins of the clitoris and bulbs which pass to the plexus on the neck of the bladder. [The triangular ligament is to be carefully detached from the bone and removed, when the deep muscles and the terminal branches of the pudic artery and nerve are to be dissected.]