VISCERA OF THE ABDOMEN. 244 membrane downwards, and then carefully to dissect away the mus- cular coat. [The jejunum and ileum (except a few inches to be left attached to the caecum) should be laid open along the line of attachment of the mesentery, so as to avoid damaging Peyer’s patches which are on the free border.] The Jejunum includes about two-tifths of the remaining small intestine, and is remarkable for the large size of the valvulse con- niventes and the number of solitary glands, but has no special characteristic. In the Ileum, the valvulse conniventes will be found to diminish rapidly in size, and to be wanting at the lower part. Peyer’s patches (glandules agminatce) (Fig. 127,4), the special charac- teristic of this part of the intestine, are from twenty to thirty in number, but vary much in size and are occasionally invisible. They will be recognised by their dotted appearance and by being of a lighter colour than the rest of the intestine, and are always found on the part of the intestine farthest from the attachment of the mesen- tery. Each patch, which may be as long as a couple of inches, is formed of a collection of the solitary glands or lymphoid follicles, wliich have however no villi on their surfaces. Peyer's glands will be found strongly marked, and sometimes ulcerated, in subjects which have died of typhoid fever. The Large Intestine (Fig. Ill) is between five and six feet in length, and is remarkable for the pouched appearance consequent upon its longitudinal muscular fibres being shorter than the intestine itself. These longitudinal fibres are arranged in three distinct bands, two of which can be seen through the peritoneum, and the third between the layers of the meso-colon. (In the rectum, which is not pouched, and the vermiform appendix, these fibres spread over the whole gut as in the small intestine.) The appendices epiploicm are small processes containing fat, attached along the free border of the intestine, and will be found to vary considerably in size in different subjects. The Caecum (Fig. 128, 1) (caput caecum coli) is distinguished by its rounded shape and by the opening of the ileum into it. It has attached to its lower and back part the appendix vermiformis, which is a little tubular prolongation terminating in a blind extremity. [The caecum, with a few inches of small and large intestine, should be detached, and the large intestine turned inside out to see the ileo-caecal valve. After this has been done and the intestine re-