205 CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. dividing it in tlie median line, and viewing it from behind, the dis- sectors will"perceive through the peritoneum five cords taking a course towards the umbilicus (Fig. 105). The central cord is the obliterated urachus (m), those on each side of it are the obliterated hypogastric arteries (i), and the outside ones are the two epigastric arteries (&) seen through the wall. The peritoneum is raised into distinct folds by the obliterated hypogastric arteries, and external to the epigastric artery on each side may be seen a small dimple in the membrane, marking the position of the internal abdominal rings. The term “ Hesselbacli’s triangle ” (d) has been applied to the tri- angular space bounded by the border of the rectus internally, the epigastric artery externally, and Poupart’s ligament below, and it is through this that direct inguinal hernia forces its way. The fold of Douglas (c), or sharp lower margin of the posterior sheath of the rectus, will be readily perceived through the peritoneum. [By dividing the lower portion of the abdominal wall in the median line, it can be reflected on each side, and the abdominal contents will be exposed.] Abdominal Cavity (Fig. 106).—The parts first seen on opening the abdomen are the stomach and right lobe of the liver, with a small portion of the left lobe and the gall-bladder if distended, whilst the great omentum passing down from the stomach conceals the rest of the intestines. Should, however, the great omentum be turned up, as often happens, the mass of the small intestines will be visible, and immediately below the stomach the transverse colon. The ascending and descending colon will be more or less visible on each side, according to the amount of their distension. A very much distended bladder, or the pregnant uterus, would be visible at once, and the amount of liver and stomach which will appear will depend upon the healthy condition of those organs, and upon their not having been displaced by tight-lacing. For convenience of description the abdomen is divided into the following regions, by imaginary lines passing vertically from the seventh costal cartilage to the middle of Poupart’s ligament on each side ; and horizontally, at the level of the ninth costal cartilages and the spines of the ilium, respectively. In the centre are the epigastric, umbilical, and hypogastric regions ; and at each side the hypo- chondriac, lumbar, and iliac or inguinal regions. The position of the several viscera should now be noted and the different organs identified.