CAVITY OF THE ABDOMEN. 208 It will be well for the student to notice the distinctive appearances of the several parts of the intestinal canal, and particularly the differences between the large and small intestines. The condition of the intestines will vary so much according to the mode of death, that mere size is no criterion, the small intestines being occasionally distended to a much greater size than the large ; but attention to the following points will prevent all possibility of error. The cylinder of the small intestine is uniform throughout, and the surface is perfectly smooth ; the laige intestine on the contrary will be found to be pouched or slightly constricted at short intervals throughout, except the rectum. Moreover it will be seen to be marked by distinct bands of longitudinal muscular fibres, three in number, and in most subjects small pieces of fat (appendices epiploicse) will be found attached along the free border. In the healthy condition the large intestine is about as large again as the small intestine. The Peritoneum (Tig. 107).—The serous membrane covering the intestines is now to be traced, in doing which the student must bear in mind that he has already opened the cavity of the peritoneum, which was previously a shut sac. The best way to learn the peri- toneum is to trace it as simply as possible at first, and afterwards to study any complications. Beginning at the umbilicus, the membrane will be seen to line the abdominal wall, and so to reach the diaphragm; from this it is reflected on the upper surface of the liver, round its anterior margin, and on the under surface of the organ as far back as the transverse fissure. It then passes down to the stomach, forming the anterior layer of the gastro-hepiatic or lesser omentum, covers the anterior surface of the stomach, and is prolonged downwards over the intes- tines to form the anterior layer of the great omentum or epiploon. By turning up the great omentum, the peritoneum will be seen to be reflected upon itself to form the posterior layer of the great omentum, which is continued upwards until it meets with the transverse colon, behind which it is prolonged to the spine, forming the under layer of the transverse meso-colon. It is now carried over the mesenteric vessels to the small intestine and back to the spine, thus forming the two layers of the mesentery; and it can then be seen to pass over the abdominal aorta into the pelvis, where it invests the rectum (meso- rectum) and passes from that intestine to the bladder, forming in the male the recto-vesical pouch. In the female the peritoneum is reflected from the rectum to the upper part of the vagina, forming the recto- vaginal pouch (cul-de-sac of Douglas), then over the uterus and between the uterus and bladder, foiming the utero-vesical pouch. It is lastly