DEEP DISSECTION OF NECK. 376 artery can be seen ascending, the former between the stylo-glnssus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, and the latter either with it or between the stylo-glossus and pterygoideus interims, to the outside of the pharynx, where they lie upon the superior constrictor. They will be more fully seen in the dissection of the pharynx. The Glosso-pharyngeal Nerve (Fig. 198, n) (8th) is seen emerging from between the jugular vein and internal carotid artery, and winding round the stylo-pharyngeus muscle ; if the stylo- glossus be now divided, the nerve may be followed beneath that muscle to the base of the tongue, where it supplies the papillce circumvallatcc. It gives branches to the stylo-pharyngeus and to the pharynx in this part of its course, and will be again seen in another dissection. Deep Dissection op the Side of the Neck. On one side only of the subject it will be useful to make a deep dissection, bringing into view, from the side, parts which will be afterwards seen from behind in the dissection of the pharynx. [Divide the internal lateral ligament of the lower jaw and cut through the inferior dental and lingual nerves and reflect them carefully upwards. The branch to the internal pterygoid muscle from the deep surface of the inferior maxillary nerve can now be traced to the posterior border of the muscle, and in close connec- tion with it may possibly be found a small pink body, the otic ganglion.] The Otic Ganglion (Fig. 201) is a minute body which receives its motor root from the internal pterygoid nerve of the inferior maxillary division of the fifth. Its sensory root may be traced from the auriculo-temporal nerve, where it embraces the middle meningeal artery, and a second sensory root is derived from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal (Jacobson’s nerve) through the small super- ficial petrosal nerve of Arnold, connected with the facial trunk. The sympathetic root also enters the ganglion behind, coming from. that upon the middle meningeal artery. A branch passes from the ganglion forwards and downwards to the tensor palati muscle, and another backwards to the tensor tympani. [The internal pterygoid muscle is to be cut through and removed from its attachment to the inner surface of the external pterygoid plate. The tensor' palati lying upon the internal pterygoid plate will now be exposed, and posterior to it the superior constrictor