THE FACE. 346 The Face. The face is a region in which it will be convenient to make different dissections on the two sides, i.e., of the muscles and vessels on one, and of the nerves on the other ; and the dissectors are there- fore advised to adopt this method of proceeding. Before commencing the dissection, the student should observe the externa] anatomy of the eye and its appendages, so that they may be seen in as natural a condition as possible (Fig. 182). On the margin of the orbit is the supercilium or eyebrow, a ridge of thickened skin covered with hairs. The eyelids or palpebrce are two thin folds composed of cartilage, muscle, and fascia, covered by the skin externally, and lined by the conjunctiva continued from the surface of the eyeball. The points of junction of the two lids are called the inner and outer canthi, and along the free border of the lids will be seen the cilia or eyelashes, which in health curve upwards from the upper, and downwards from the lower lid. Before opening the lids they should be drawn forcibly outward towards the temple, in order to make tense and prominent the little Surgery.—The tendo oculi is important as the guide to the lachrymal sac when it is necessary to introduce a knife into it in cases of lachrymal abscess, and the stu- dent should practise this little operation at once as follows:— Drawing the eyelids outward to render the tendon tense, a narrow knife held with the back towards the nose is entered vertically immediately below it, and passed downwards and a little backwards tendo oculi at the inner cantlius. Fig. 182. Fig. 182.—Appendages of the eye (from Wilson). 1. Superior tarsal cartilage. 2. Lower border of the cartilage on which are seen the openmgs of the Meibomian glands. 3. Inferior tarsal cartilage; along the upper border of this car- tilage the openings of the Meibomian glands are likewise seen. 4. Lachrymal gland; its superior or orbital portion. 5. Inferior or palpebral portion. 6. Lachrymal ducts. 7. Plica semilunaris. 8. Caruncula lachrymalis. 9. Puncta lachrymalia of the lachry- mal canals. 10. Superior lachrymal canal. 11. Inferior lachrymal canal. 12. LachrjTnal sac. 14. Dilatation of the nasal duct, where it opens into the inferior meatus of the nose. 15. Nasal duct.