ART. 601.] PULMONARY INFLAMMATIONS IN GENERAL. 145 black pigmentations of the lung are not anthracotic, for black pigment is frequently a derivative of the colouring-matter of the blood (Arts. 68, 268). A second form is the so-called siderosis (compare Art. 268) or pneumonoconiosis siderotica (ai8r)po<; iron) of Zenker, due to the inhalation of metallic dust; in the lung it appears as oxide or sesquioxide or phosphate of iron. Oxide of iron (rouge) is used as a pigment and as a polishing-material; it gives rise to a brick-red pigmentation of the lung, the other iron-compounds tend- ing rather to blacken it. The deposit of stone-dust, especially of quartz, flint, and glass, has been called chalicosis (%a?u£ grit); dust from clay as inhaled by porcelain-workers and makers of artificial ultramarine gives rise to aluminosis. Grinders inhale mixtures of steel-dust and grit which cause the affection known as grinder's asthma or grinder's rot. Pearson, Thomson, Eobin and others surmised that part at least of the black pigmentation so frequently found in the lung was derived from inhaled soot and coal-dust: Traube verified this by actually demonstrating the presence of microscopic particles of coal in the lung and sputum. Cohnheim thinks that the black pigment of the lung is entirely of this nature; but Virchow is no doubt right in referring some of it to altered blood-pigment. Ziegler has found that in a very large number of cases the lung-tissue and the bronchial glands contain broken-down red corpuscles, corpuscle-carrying cells, yellow and brown flakes, and granules of pigment. This is especially the case in parts that have been altered in any way by inflammation. Zenker's researches were the first to give us precise information on siderosis. Kussmaul, Schmidt, and Meinel have examined the mineral residue (ash) of lung-tissue, and have shown that in chalicosis the amount of silica present is remarkably increased. Lewin, Villaret, Crocq, von Ins, Kuppert, Schottelius, and others have experimented on dust-inhalation. References :—Pearson, Phil. Trans. 1813 ; Thomson, Med. chir. Trans. xx, xxi (1837) ; Robin, Traits de chimie anatomique in (1853); Traube, Deutsche Klinik 1860; Zenker, Deut. Arch. f. Jclin. Med. xin; Kussmaul, ibid. ii ; Greenhow, Lancet 1, 1869, Trans. Path. Soc. xvi et seq., Report of Med. Off to Privy Council 1861; Meinel, Deut. Viertelj. f. offentl. Oesundh. 1876; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vols. 1, 35, Edin. Med. Joum. 1858; Lewin, Beitrage z. Inhalationstherapie Berlin 1863 ; Villaret and Crocq, Schmidt's Jahrb. 116, 126; von Ins, Arch. f. exp. Path, v; Knauff, Virch. Arch. vol. 39; Slavjansky, ibid. vol. 48 ; Ruppert, ibid. vol. 72; Sotka, Prag. med. Woch. 1878; Merkel, Ziemssen's Cyclop, i; Hirt, Staubinhalationskranklieiten Breslau 1871; Smith, Med. Times 1, 1881; Hesse, Viertelj. f. gerichtl. Med. xxxvi (1882); Seligsohn, Eulenburg's Realencyclopadie Article Staubkrank- hciten; Weichselbaum, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1882, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1883 ; Buhl, Naturforscherversammlung in Miinchen 1877; Harris, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xv 1881 ; Arnold, Staubinhalation Leipzig 1885. 601. The kinds of dust described in the last article, when in small quantities, give rise to no serious change in the lung, other than pigmentation. This is especially true of coal-dust of which very considerable quantities may be inhaled without injury. Metal-dust and grit are more dangerous, for in any but small amounts they set up inflammations which in some cases are not slight or transient but give rise to very marked alteration in the lungs. Dust-inhalation is thus the exciting cause of a group S. p. A. 2 10