277 ART. 648.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. they sometimes do; while we also bear in mind that the atrophy of the ganglion-cells of the anterior horns involves atrophy of the root-fibres entering and leaving the white substance. Perhaps in some cases fresh primary foci of degeneration appear in the region of the commissural fibres of the anterior columns. And when as has been observed in a few instances the posterior columns are likewise affected, we must infer that there too some isolated patch of degeneration has led to secondary degeneration of the tract. Many authors (Friedreich, Schultze, Kahler, Pick) have asserted that defective development of the conducting columns is frequently the principal cause of primary systemic degeneration. In support of this they point to the fact that certain forms are hereditary (Friedreich, Virch. Arch. vols. 68, 70; Rutimeter, ibid. vol. 91 ; Dreschfeld, Liverpool and Manchester med. and surg. reports iv 1876 ; Ohmerod, Brain vn 1884; Everett Smith, Boston med. and surg. journ. 1885; Bury, Brain vin 1886, with summary of cases), and that in these cases post-mortem examination has revealed changes explic- able only on the supposition of imperfect development of the cord. It cannot be denied that in some cases hereditary conditions play a considerable part. In others, and these the majority, there is no evidence of such conditions, and we must look elsewhere for the causes of the disease. Erb (D. Arch, f. klin. med. xxiv (1879), Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1881, Trans, internat. med. congress II 1881, Berl. klin. Woch. 32, 1883), Fournier {L'ataxie locomotrice d'origine syphilitique Paris 1882), Gowers {Lancet 1, 1881), Althaus {Trans, internat. med. congress n 1881), Voigt and Rumpf {Berl. klin. Woch. 1883), Eulenburg {Virch. Arch. vol. 99), and others have pointed out the great significance of syphilis in this connexion, some going so far as to say that 80 to 90 per cent, of tabic patients have suffered from syphilis. Even though other observers like Westphal and Buzzard have been unable to agree with such high estimates it appears plain that the influence of syphilis in the genesis of the disease is an important one. Adamkiewicz has carefully investigated the distribution of the blood- vessels in the cord {Wiener Sitzungsber. lxxxiv, lxxxv 1882, xc 1884) and shows that the degeneration of the posterior columns is coextensive with the vascular territory of the arteries which enter from the posterior circumference and the posterior longitudinal fissure. Even if we cannot suppose that all the vessels entering from these situations become successively diseased, we may at least imagine that the initial or primary lesion is due to disease within the territory of some of them, and that this lesion is the starting-point of secondary degeneration of the corresponding tracts. This at least would explain why the process sometimes does not extend over the whole of the posterior columns and the adjacent grey matter. On the other hand the fact that the disease of the posterior columns so often coexists with like disease of other systems and tracts shows that the degeneration may start in other vascular territories also. Tuczek {Arch. f. Psych, xin) states that in ergotism changes resembling those in tabes appear in the posterior columns : according to Leyden this is also the case in pellagra (Art. 367). Brunelli {Trans, internat. med. congress II 1881) attributes an affection presenting the symptoms of lateral sclerosis to the use of bread contaminated with Lathyrus cicera. If these observations are confirmed in numerous cases they will go to show that certain poisons have a selective action on definite tracts of the central nervous system (Adriani, La pellagra Perugia 1880; Althaus, Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1884). The fact that we occasionally meet with thickening of the meninges in tabes does not prove that the clisease originally starts in meningitis. The thickening of the pia mater may quite well be a secondary process, though of