ART. 616.] 179 FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. start in the caseous foci within the lung-tissue itself, or in the bronchiectatic cavities which arise in the shrunken and airless parts. Once the process of disintegration has begun it usually advances steadily and somewhat rapidly to the formation of vomicae or caverns. Even when these cavities become lined with a layer of granulations the process is seldom thereby brought to a complete standstill, for the bacilli settled in the wall of the cavity give rise to fresh inflammatory change and fresh necrosis. The usual course of the disease, in indurative tuberculous bronchopneumonia as in other forms, leads to the formation of cavities of considerable size, increasing not only by continuous extension but also by coalescence with others. In the latter case we may have a whole series of intercommunicating cavities, or a single large and very irregular cavern traversed and partially subdivided by bands and fragments of tissue. The greater part or the whole of the upper lobe and parts of the lower lobe may be thus destroyed, the cavity being in places bounded only by the thickened pleura, while the collapsed and indurated pulmonary tissue is much reduced in bulk. The cavity contains air, and greyish, yellowish, or brownish liquid, mingled with pus-cells and whitish shreds and fragments of necrotic lung-tissue usually beset with bacilli. The disintegration of the lung-tissue takes place much more rapidly in caseous and caseo-purulent bronchopneumonia than in the indurative form. It sometimes happens that in a very short time from the onset of the malady the whole lung is riddled with cavities, whose caseous and infiltrated walls break down into shreds as if they were rotten. When such a cavity lies immediately underneath the pleura there is always (unless previous adhesions limit the process) a certain amount of fibrinous or purulent inflammation of that membrane. Not infrequently the pleura is perforated and pneu- mothorax or pyopneumothorax is set up. The caseo-fibroid, caseous, and caseo-purulent forms of broncho- pneumonia occur in various combinations and give rise to a great variety of different morbid appearances in different cases. Sometimes a suppurative form of the inflammation is grafted on a chronic caseo-fibroid form, and leads to a marked acceleration of the destructive process. The striking fact that tuberculous bronchopneumonia usually begins in the apex of the lung points to the conclusion that the settlement and multi- plication of the tubercle-bacilli take place more readily there than in other parts. In the apex the respiratory movement is relatively smaller, and the amount of blood in circulation less. Any bacilli which may reach the apex by ,'ispiration are therefore less readily carried off by the lymphatics and destroyed by the living tissue-cells : in other words the tissue is there less resistent. A fact perhaps still more significant is this—that residues of previous inflammation (Art. 611) linger longer in tho apex than elsewhere in the lung, and in this way causo a kind of local weakness or predisposition to bacillary invasion in that part. 12—2