THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXX. 114 indurated parenchyma by way of the peribronchial lymphatics to the peribronchial fibrous tissue of the larger tubes. In like manner the inflammatory change may extend from inflammation of the pleurae or of the interlobular septa. In rare instances the induration extends from the fibrous tissue and lymphatic glands at the root of the lung, and proceeds radially along the peri- bronchial structures. The appearance of a bronchus thus thickened and indurated varies greatly according to the way in which the process has been set up. If the tube is unobstructed (Fig. 218) it looks on section like a thick-walled aperture, sharply defined against the pulmonary tissue or surrounded by radiating fibrous bands (d), and projecting above the cut surface. If the tube is filled with inspissated secretion (Fig. 218 e, Fig. 217 a) the wall looks like a thickened capsule surrounding it. When the adjacent parenchyma of the lung is devoid of air, collapsed (Fig. 218 e), and indurated, there is no sharp line between the thickened bronchus and the altered lung: a slight difference in tint and in consistence is all that appears. Inflammations issuing in suppuration or in caseation extend to the peribronchial tissues and lymphatics in the same way as the indurative variety: they often extend both widely and deeply. In tuberculous bronchopneumonia with caseation caseous peri- bronchitis is always present, and in suppuration of the lung there is always a certain amount of purulent peribronchial lymphangitis. Of course the tubes immediately connected with the seat of disease in the lung are the first and most affected, but the process often spreads to the bronchi of other regions. Peribronchitis being thus a secondary affection, and usually associated with bronchitic and pneumonic processes, it is always accompanied by changes in the lung or in the pleura (Fig. 218 g). Indeed these latter changes are frequently the most apparent, and overshadow to a great extent the peribronchial lesions (Art. 614).' Cases however occur in which these are so marked that they form the essential character of the disease. The term peribronchitis is used in the text in a much more restricted sense than is usual. Most writers include under it the nodular indurations of bronchopneumonia. It is thought best however to distinguish between the finer terminal or respiratory bronchioles, and those which serve simply as air-passages. The former are essentially elements of the parenchyma of the lung, and their inflammations are essentially pneumonic. For references see Art. 582. 582. Bronchiectasis or dilatation of the bronchi results partly from increased internal pressure on the bronchial wall, partly from changes in its structure and in that of the surrounding pul- monary tissue. The dilatation is either uniform and extending over one or more branches, or local and fusiform or saccular: it may be single