[CHAP. XCII. 228 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. the cranial cavity. This condition is known as external hydro- cephalus (Virchow). In Art. 7 we mentioned that when minor deficiencies occur in the bony walls of the skull the cranial contents protrude, and forcing out the dura mater, the cranial aponeurosis, and the scalp take the form of a rounded tumour. Such a tumour is called a cephalocele or hernia cerebri. Three forms are distinguished according to their contents. The commonest is hydrencephalocele, in which the tumour contains a sacculation of a ventricle covered with brain-substance. Encephalocele and meningocele are much rarer: in the former brain-substance and pia mater only, and in the latter the pia mater and arachnoid distended with liquid, protrude into the dural sac. The cause of hydrencephalocele is probably an antecedent hydrocephalus. In encephalocele and meningocele there is pro- bably some local weakness of the membranes or defect in the ossification of the cranium (Ackermann) ; in some cases the condition may be due to adhesions between the meninges and the amnion (St Hilaire). The commonest seat of cephalocele is at the lower end of the frontal suture {hernia sincipitalis), and about the squamous part of the occipital bone (hernia occipitalis). More rarely it occurs about the anterior fontanelle, the squamosal suture, the base of the skull, the orbital fissure, etc. It may continue to grow after birth. Eeferences on hydrocephalus and cephalocele:—Huguenin, Ziemsserfs Cyclopaedia xn; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 27; Gunz, Jahrb. d. Kinder- heilk. v (1862); Roller and Schmidt, ibid, vi (1863) ; Hanel, ibid, (new series) I; Amyot, Med. Times 1, 1869; Dickinson, Lancet 2, 1870 ; Butten- wieser, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. x (1872); Papp and Neupader, Jahrb. f. Kinder- heilk. (new series) vn; Maennel, Jahrb. f. Piidiatrik 1876; Steffen, Gerhardt's Handb. d. Kinderkr. v; Virchow, Krankh. Geschioiilste I; S. Talko, Virch. Arch. vol. 50; Harris, Obstetr. Trans, vi; Henoch, Charite'- Annalen iv; Bizzoli, Bullet, d. scien. med. d. Bologna 1872; Baab, Wien. med. Woch. 1876; J. F. West, Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk. ix (1876); Bauer, ibid. xi; Muhr, Arch. f. Psych, vm ; Hewett, St Geo. Hosp. Rep. 1873; Heineke, Pitha u. Billroths Handb. in; Demme, Jahresber. d. Jenner. Kinderspitals Bern 1876 ; Szymanowski, LangenbecBs Arch, vi; Spring, Monographic de la hernie du cerveau Brussels 1853; G. Reali, Ueb. d. Behand. d. angeb. Schadel- n. Ruckgratsbriiche In. Diss. Zurich 1874; Ackermann, Die Schiideldifformitiit bei d. Encephalocele congenita Halle 1882. 632. Corresponding to internal hydi'ocephalus we have a congested collection of liquid in the central canal of the cord: this is termed internal hydromyelia or hydrorrhachis. The canal is dilated either in parts or throughout its whole length, and the substance of the cord is accordingly thinned out. Partial dilatations are fusiform, cylindrical, or sacculate. Cases occur in which comparatively large cavities lined with cylindrical epithelium are found in the region of the posterior columns, the columns them- selves being ill-developed (Arts. G37 and 650).