[CHAP. LXIX. 44 THE URINARY ORGANS. 539. Clinical authorities describe three chief types of neph- ritis. The first is acute nephritis, distinguished by diminution in the quantity of urine, which is of high specific gravity, contains much albumen, is of acid reaction, and is dark or occasionally smoky or blood-stained in colour. The sediment contains white blood-cells, and when the urine is smoky or bloody red blood-cells, also tube-casts which are hyaline or occasionally granular and mingled with red blood-cells or their detritus, epithelial cells from the collecting tubes, turbid swollen and broken-down cells from the convoluted tubules, and sometimes concavo-convex epithe- lium from the glomeruli. Scarlatina, diphtheria, croupous pneumonia, relapsing fever, septicaemia, pyaemia, typhoid, endocarditis, and articular rheuma- tism are frequent causes or concomitants of acute nephritis, though it also arises idiopathically. Anasarca is usually present, but not always, especially in the secondary varieties. The usual issue of the affection is in recovery, though death may occur from uraemia. Only in rare instances does it pass into chronic indurative nephritis with hypertrophy of the heart and polyuria. More rarely still does it lead to chronic parenchymatous nephritis, and though many cases are of long duration the process does not usually end in a fatal chronic disease, but in ultimate recovery. The clinical term acute nephritis includes a number of anato- mically distinct types of renal inflammation. There is in almost all cases some disorder of the glomeruli, and this may by itself give rise to all the symptoms of acute nephritis; but in many cases the uriniferous tubules or the intertubular stroma or both are also affected, and these changes give rise to corresponding peculiarities in the anatomical aspect of the disease. The second form recognised by physicians is chronic paren- chymatous nephritis. Its characters are these:—onset insidious or subacute, and invariably accompanied by anasarca, which may be the first symptom attracting the patient's notice to his condition; urine highly albuminous, slightly diminished in quantity, of a turbid yellow tint, of increased specific gravity, and usually free from blood, though haemorrhagic varieties occur; in the sediment numerous tube-casts of various sizes, white blood-cells, fatty epithelial cells, granular and fatty detritus, and fat-granule cells. Red blood-cells are usually few or absent, being abundant only in the haemorrhagic forms. Recovery is rare. As a rule after the disease has lasted for months or years death ensues from increasing dropsy, cerebral oedema, pleurisy, pericarditis, uraemia, or other cause. Sometimes however the aspect of the case changes : cardiac hypertrophy and rise of the arterial blood-pressure cause the flow of urine to increase, its specific gravity and proportion of albumen diminish,