THE LARYNX. ART. 57C] 103 Parasiten d. Menschen Loipzig 1882), FihiST (Wien. mod. Woch. 1879), Mosler {Zeitsckr. f. klin. Med. VI 1883). 576. The laryngeal cartilages are apt in old age to undergo certain degenerative changes which we may perhaps describe as physiological. These are fibrillation, partial solution, and trans- formation into spongy osseous tissue. The process corresponds in details to the metaplasia or pathological ossification of the other cartilages of the body. The spongy bone thus produced may afterwards be partially replaced by fatty myeloid tissue or marrow. This softening and ossification also occurs as a morbid change at an earlier age, especially in cases of chronic laryngitis. The transformation into bone begins in the deeper parts of the carti- lages and thence extends towards the surface. Bile-pigment is deposited in the cartilages in cases of jaundice, and urates in gout. The most important affection is however the inflammation of the perichondrium, referred to as laryngeal perichondritis. It is usually a secondary affection, occurring in connexion with suppurative and ulcerative disease and with carcinoma, and is especially frequent in pyaemia, small-pox, typhus, and severe typhoid. Sometimes it originates in the decubital necroses met with in aged and debilitated bedridden patients at the posterior aspect of the cricoid cartilage (Art. 450), and due to the persistent pressure of the larynx on the vertebral column. Perichondritis may also be set up by mechanical violence. The inflammation is usually purulent, but tuberculous, caseous, and indurative varieties are met with. It is nearly always localised to some part of the cartilaginous framework of the larynx, most commonly to parts of the cricoid and arytenoids. The accumulated exudation lying on the surface of the cartilage gives rise to more or less marked swelling of the parts, and presently portions of the cartilage become necrosed. When the perichondritic abscess bursts either outwards or inwards the dead sequestrum may be exfoliated and extruded. Abscesses bursting inwards usually give rise to inflammation of the bronchi and lungs, those which burst outwards to perilaryngeal suppuration. After the abscess is evacuated and the dead cartilage removed the wound may heal by granulation and cicatrisation. When the loss of substance is large much contraction and distortion ensue. Smaller defects are filled up with fibrous tissue, actual regenera- tion of the lost cartilage taking place only to a very slight extent. So too in fracture of the cartilages from external violence repair takes place by means of new formations of fibrous tissue not of cartilage. Now and then cartilaginous excrescences, or ecchondroses, make their appearance, and in cases where the cartilages have already become ossified exostoses have been described. They are usually found about the articulations, but are nearly always very