THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAR LXXXVII. 164 consistence, while the surrounding tissue simultaneously undergoes necrosis. In this manner caseous nodules, from the size of a pea to that of a walnut, are produced; after a time they become enclosed in a fibrous capsule, and then may remain for an indefinite time without further change, though frequently they become calcified. These nodules are met with in all parts of the lung, though the apex is the commonest seat. Occasionally they give rise to obstruction of some of the bronchial tubes (Art. 580). A more frequent result of bronchopneumonia is induration or cirrhosis of the lung. In its least-complicated form this occurs in cases where the continual inhalation of irritating dust keeps up a constantly-renewed inflammation. Coal-dust is the least irritating, stone-dust and metallic particles are much more injurious. The power of the absorbents is usually insufficient to remove all the dust inhaled, and inflammation being set up around the particles that remain in process of time they are enclosed in capsules of new fibrous tissue (Fig. 235 a), and thus give rise to hard fibrous nodules. In some cases these nodules are few and scattered: in others they are numerous and lie together in groups (Fig. 235). Instances occur in which they are so numerous in particular parts of the lung that scarcely any air-containing tissue exists between them, and in other parts the lung is entirely fibrous. This condition is best described as nodular cirrhosis. The separate nodules are of various sizes from that of a lentil to that of a bean. They are white, slate-coloured, or even black, and that even in the absence of coal-dust. The pigment is then derived from the colouring-matter of the blood. When fully developed they consist of coarse fibrous tissue, often concentrically stratified. Larger nodes are formed by the coalescence of smaller nodules, and correspond to the territory of a single bronchiole: the smallest nodules represent terminal alveoli or infundibula. The tissue round about the nodules is infiltrated with cells, or thickened and fibrous, the indurative inflammation extending radially. When the bronchopneumonia is lobular, and associated with obstructive collapse, the nodular cirrhosis is accompanied by a, more diffuse indurative change, which we may call lobular cirrhosis. In this way, as in the cirrhosis of simple collapse (Art. 592, Fig. 221), the lung is beset with patches of compact grey or slate- coloured tissue, enclosing scattered nodules which are usually of a paler tint. Patches of this kind may be formed in any part of the lung, though they are most common at the apex : not infrequently they contain small cheesy nodules. The pervious bronchi traversing the indurated region generally become dilated, and are the seat of chronic inflammation often of an ulcerative kind and leading to the formation of cavities or