ART. G04.] FORMS OF PNEUMONIA. 151 or continuously. The tissue is transformed into a tindery or pulpy mass with a characteristic intensely foetid odour. When a gangrenous patch lies immediately beneath the pleura the latter may be raised up in bullae or blisters, or the softened mass may break through into the pleural cavity. The tissue surrounding the gangrenous part is inflamed and infiltrated, often haemorrhagic. Death usually ensues either from intense pleurisy or from putrid poisoning. If recovery takes place, the gangrenous portion is separated off from the healthy by a zone of granulations, and gradually removed: in most cases a cavity remains which may be the starting-point for fresh inflammatory mischief. Another and comparatively uncommon issue is in suppuration, due to excessive extravasation of leucocytes in the later stages of the pneumonia. Sometimes patches of necrosis are the starting- point of the suppuration. The accumulation of leucocytes appears partly in the alveoli, partly in the substance of the lung-tissue, and may be disseminated or diffuse. The tissue becomes yellow and very brittle; here and there it may break up and dissolve outright. Large abscesses are however very rare indeed, and are probably formed only where some previous morbid alteration has already existed. The pus thus formed may find an exit in various directions. Most frequently it is evacuated through the bronchi. Death is a common termination; though the suppurative process may come to an end and granulations spring up, by which cicatrisation is effected, or a cavity bounded by new-formed connective tissue remains. The frequency of gangrene, suppuration, and caseation as terminations of pneumonia is still matter of discussion. Leyden doubts whether a lung previously healthy ever becomes gangrenous or suppurates after pneumonia. It is however by no means always possible to demonstrate post mortem the presence of previous morbid change. It is to be doubted whether croupous pneumonia ever issues in caseation. References:—Jurgensen, loc. cit.; Leyden, Sammlung klin. Vortriige 114, 115, Deut. Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. EC; Buhl, Lungenentziindwig Tuberculose und Schwindsucht 1872, Arbeiten a., d. path. Inst, zu MUnchen 1878; Thomas, Gerhard?s Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. nr. 604. Another termination of croupous pneumonia, not very common it is true but by no means rare, is in collapse and induration of the lung, a condition which is best described as simple cirrhosis. In some cases this comes about by the lung failing to expand after the resolution and absorption of the exudation. This may be due to persistent obstruction of the bronchi (Art. 592, Fig. 221) or to compression from without. The walls of the unexpanded alveoli soon become coherent and undergo a certain amount of thickening. In other cases the absorption of the exudation is incomplete: weeks and months elapse and the consolidation does not disappear. The inflammatory condition is maintained, repeated extravasations