CHAPTER XCIX. STRUCTURE OF PERIPHERAL NERVES. 666. The peripheral nervous system is composed of nerves and ganglia, together with certain terminal organs. The nerves consist essentially of medullated and non-medullated fibres: in the ganglia there are similar nerve-fibres and associated ganglion-cells. A medullated fibre is a long cylindrical structure, the axis being occupied by the so-called axis-cylinder. During life the latter is homogeneous and enclosed in a sheath of myeline (medullary sheath), and this again in a delicate fibrous envelope—the primitive sheath, neurilemma, or sheath of Schwann. The medullary sheath is interrupted at intervals by the nodes of Ranvier: at these points the axis-cylinder is covered only by the sheath of Schwann, and chiefly through them is its nutrition kept up. Each nerve-fibre is thus sub- divided into segments of 1 to 2 mm. in length; each segment has about its middle a nucleus lying close to the sheath of Schwann, and on the inner side of the sheath close to the nucleus is a thin layer of protoplasm. External to the sheath of Schwann is a fibrillar sheath (Axel Key and Retzius), which also contains nuclei and a scanty protoplasm. The non-medullated fibres possess an axis-cylinder with a primitive sheath containing nuclei at intervals. Both kinds of fibres unite to form nerves of various degrees of thickness: the nerves from the brain and cord consist chiefly of medullated fibres, those of the sympathetic system chiefly of non- medullated fibres. The smaller nerves consist of a single bundle of nerve-fibres, the larger nerves of a certain number of bundles. Each bundle (Figs. 286, 288 c) is surrounded by a fibrous envelope or perineurium: in a large trunk several such bundles are enclosed in a perineurium (Fig. 288 a), each of them being surrounded by an epineurium (6) of loose connective tissue, often containing fat-cells. Septa pass from the perineurium between the bundles (Fig. 286), and subdividing into finer fibres surround the individual nerve-fibres with an endoneurium. The blood-