INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. ART. 659.] 301 convolution of a young man. The necrotic patch was not then fully absorbed, and the scar was still surrounded by a broad zone of degeneration, which like the scai- contained numerous fat-granule and pigment-carrying cells. References :—Bruns, Die chir. Krankheiten u. Verletz. d. Gehimes u. s. Umhiillungen Tubingen 1854; Stromeyer, Verletz. u. chir. Krankh. d. Kopfes Freiburg 1864; Bergmann, Deutsche Ghirurgie part 30; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 50; Gluge, Abhandl. z. Physiol, u. Path. Jena 1841 (experiments on encephalitis); Hasse and Kolliker, Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. iv (1846); Jolly, Shid. aus d. Inst. f. exp. Path. Vienna 1870; Hayem, Etudes sur les diverses formes d^encephalite Paris 1868 ; Klebs, Path. Anat. d. Schusswunden Leipzig 1872 ; Ziegler, Sitzungsber. d. phys.-med. Gesell. in Wiirzburg 1878. 659. Both in the brain and cord we meet with localised or disseminated haematogenous inflammation, which like the loca- lised degenerations lead partly to permanent loss of substance, partly to grey degeneration and sclerosis. Encephalitis is the name given to the affection of the brain, myelitis to that of the cord. It is in the first place to be kept in mind (Art. 653) that in epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis patches of encephalitis and myelitis are of constant occurrence. In the meningitic processes associated with progressive paralysis inflammatory foci are found in the interior of the brain and cord, and sometimes in the pial sheaths of the nerve-roots. But these deeper inflammations also take place in the absence of meningitis, both in connexion with infective disorders and idiopathically. Thus in typhoid, variola, acute rheumatism, pyaemia, puerperal fevers, ulcerative phthisis, etc. multiple encephalitis is not rare, while in hydrophobia (so-called lyssa) patches of inflammation scattered through the whole central nervous system, but chiefly in the base of the brain and the cord, have been described by a number of writers (Kolessnikow, Forel, Gowers, Weller). They are very common in tuberculosis (Art. 660). Frequently too these patches occur without any apparent exciting cause, and are then attributed vaguely to cold or some such injurious influence. According to certain authorities violent irritation of peripheral nerves is capable of setting up myelitis; though it is more likely that the spinal diseases thus induced are due to ischaemic or haemorrhagic softening. The smaller and more recent patches are not visible to the naked eye,being little more than circumvascular cellular infiltrations. When they are somewhat larger they are usually seen as red or pink spots, which are very distinct when in the white matter. Sometimes they contain little extravasations, and under certain conditions the whole patch resembles one of haemorrhagic softening. The smaller patches occasionally heal without leaving a trace. In the larger ones there is always some destruction of nerve-tissue, a small cyst (Art. 642), a grey gelatinous patch (Fig. 271, Art. 650), a sclerosis, or a scar remaining after the cessation of the inflammatory disturbance and the absorption of detritus and exudation.