287 ART. 653.] INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. roots. In the cortex the ganglion-cells become swollen and lose their finer processes. Often enough the inflammatory change advances along the vessels to the cortex, the pial sheaths especially of the veins becom- ing filled with leucocytes. Or the change may extend to the nervous tissues in a more generally diffused manner (Art. 654). The nerves issuing from the brain and cord are frequently infiltrated with cells. When the inflammation extends through the transverse fissures of the base of the brain to the telae choroideae within the ventricles, a purulent or sero-purulent exudation is poured out, the liquid contents of the ventricles are augmented and rendered turbid, and the plexuses swell up and become covered over with pus or fibrino- purulent flakes. The ependyma and underlying brain-substance become moist and sometimes morbidly soft. When the distension of the ventricles is great the brain-substance is compressed, the gyri flattened, and the subarachnoid liquid forced out; the result being that the meningeal structures of the convexity become morbidly dry. The seat and the extent of the inflammation vary greatly, depending of course on the exciting cause and on the manner in which it reaches the membranes. As to the nature and properties of the exciting causes we know little, but it is probable that micro- organisms are frequently at work, and probably also specifically distinct micro-organisms in different forms of the disease. In many cases micrococci have been found in the inflamed tissues, but it is not likely that they are always of the same kind or the same virulence. Irritant matters (organic or not) may reach the meninges in the first place by way of the blood-vessels, in which case we might call the meningitis embolic. If it chiefly attacks the convex surface it is described according to its distribution as local or general, unilateral or bilateral, meningitis of the convexity. Affecting the base it is called basal or basilar meningitis, and in the case of the cord spinal meningitis. In basal meningitis the cerebral axis is usually covered with pus, and the subarachnoid cisterns are much distended with the exudation. Haematogenous purulent meningitis occurs in connexion with traumatic pyaemia, gangrenous and croupous pneumonia, ulcerative tuberculous phthisis, endocarditis, gangrenous bed-sores, acute rheumatism, purulent pleurisy (empyema), scarlatina, typhoid, inflammation of the umbilicus in infants, etc. It is moreover the essential symptom of the infective disease known as epidemic cere- brospinal meningitis. As its name indicates the exudation in this disease extends over cord and brain, though by no means uniformly. When the inflammation is at its height it is usually puru- lent or fibrino-purulent, seldom haemorrhagic, though cases rarely occur in which some small haemorrhages do not appear. If death