ART. 632.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 229 When the dilatation of the canal is slight the development of the cord may be normal, but where the dilatation is more marked there is always some thinning of the nerve-substance, and the posterior columns especially are apt to suffer. Extreme localised or cystic dilatation, such as in the cervical region frequently accompanies hydrencephalocele, sometimes leads to actual discontinuity of the cord. Another variety allied to the last takes the form of a cystic tumour-like growth protruding through the walls of the vertebral canal and appearing under the skin of the back or on the lateral or anterior aspect of the spinal column. This is known as myelo- meningocele or spina bifida (Art. 7). Lumbo-sacral myelomeningocele is the commonest form. The tumour appears in the mid-dorsal line immediately above the sacrum or on the lumbar spine. It is covered with smooth or shining and sometimes thinned integument, and is of the size of a walnut or a little larger. The inner surface of the cyst is sometimes smooth, sometimes rough with outgrowths from the walls: on the upper and ventral aspect the cord is seen. It is elongated and, it may be, somewhat swollen, or attached by a broad base to the inner surface, or it is lost immediately after it enters, breaking up into a number of strands which run in the wall of the cyst. In rare cases the cyst at birth is open, or there may be no cyst properly speaking but merely a hole in the skin surrounded by a raised border and leading by a funnel-like passage directly into the central canal of the cord. The wall of the cyst or sack is formed chiefly of the sacculated dura mater, and the vertebral arches and spinous processes are always absent at its neck. Hence the name—sacral spina bifida— sometimes given to the malformation. Dorsal and cervical myelomeningoceles are much more rare, and usually smaller. The dura bulges slightly through the gap in the series of vertebral arches, while a conical or cylindrical process from the posterior aspect of the cord enters and becomes adherent to the wall of the sack. The process contains both grey and white matter, and sometimes encloses also a saccular dilatation of the central canal. Lastly there is a form of cystic protrusion occurring in the sacral region and involving chiefly or only the membranes of the cord: it is hence described as spinal meningocele. A local accumulation of fluid takes place at the lower part of the subarachnoid space: the dura and the adherent arachnoid are then forced through some normal opening (such as that between two arches, an intervertebral foramen, or the lumbo-sacral hiatus) or through an abnormal one due to absence of an arch or part of a vertebral body, and thus form a protuberance on the posterior, lateral, or anterior aspect of the spine. If the liquid continues to