97 AKT. 571.] THE LARYNX. Keferences :—Eppinoer, and Rauchfuss, loc. cit.: von Ziemssen and Steiner, Ziemsseris Cyclop, iv; Eheiner, Virch. Arch. vol. 5 ; E. Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. VII (1866); Steudener, Virch. Arch. vol. 54; Weigert, ibid. vol. 70; Schottelius, Gesellsch. d. Naturvrissenschaften zu Marburg xn; Report, Brit. Med. Journ. 2, 1878 ; Morell Mackenzie, op. cit., Diphtheria London 1878; Report, Lancet 1, 1879, and Med. chir. Trans, lxii (1879); Monti, Croup u. Diphtherie Vienna 1884; Virchow, Berl. klin. Woch. 1885; Orth, Path. Anat. n Berlin 1885. It will be seen that we make no pathological distinction corresponding to that implied in the clinical terms croup and diphtheria. The specific infective disease diphtheria, when it is accompanied by croupous or superficial diph- theritic inflammation of the larynx and trachea, is the same as the affection clinically described as 'membranous croup,' a term which the pathologist may well dispense with (Arts. 204, 443, 444). 571. Oedema of the glottis is a more or less intense swelling of the laryngeal mucous membrane, due to infiltration of the mucosa and especially of the submucosa. The swelling is usually greatest on the posterior surface of the epiglottis, the aryteno- epiglottic folds, and the false vocal cords, the submucosa of these parts being exceptionally loose in texture. The oedema may be so great as to occlude the superior orifice of the larynx. Oedema of the glottis may be acute or chronic. The former is due to inflammatory exudation, and occurs chiefly as a concomitant of catarrhal, croupous, or diphtheritic inflammation, and around syphilitic and tuberculous ulcers and submucous or perichondritic abscesses. It may also accompany suppurative inflammations of the pharynx, thyroid gland, and cervical connective tissue. It is often unilateral or confined to one of the parts above mentioned, according to the exciting cause. Chronic oedema is usually the result of venous engorgement from cardiac disease, pulmonary emphysema, compression of the cervical veins, etc., and of non-inflammatory affections of the blood or vessels: it is generally symmetrical and limited to the posterior surface of the epiglottis and the aryteno-epiglottic folds, though in a less degree it may affect the vocal cords. Chronic inflammatory conditions of the larynx (as in laryngeal ulcer or perichondritis) may of course give rise to inflammatory oedema of a somewhat chronic kind. Phlegmonous inflammation of the larynx {phlegmon laryn- gis) is a sero-purulent and sero-fibrinous infiltration of the sub- mucosa and mucosa, whose seat is generally the same as that of acute oedema: it is not common. Suppuration of the tissue succeeds the infiltration, and ab- scesses are formed which on rupturing give rise to ulcers. When the inflammation extends to the cartilages purulent perichondritis is set up (Art. 576). These abscesses may also burrow in among the cervical muscles, or break into the pharynx or oesophagus. When the pus is evacuated the abscess-cavity may close up and become cicatrised Phlegmonous laryngitis sometimes follows upon croupous, s. p. a. 2 7