THE URINARY ORGANS. 12 [CHAR LXV. between the secreted urine and the blood. Noxious substances in the blood, whether generated within the body or derived from without, are in great measure eliminated by the kidneys. In this way the kidneys act as purifying organs. If a solution containing about 0*4 per cent, of sodium sulphindigotate is injected into the external jugular vein of a dog, and the animal is killed a few minutes after, it is found that the colouring-matter is already in process of excretion from the kidneys. According to Heidenhain {Pfliiger's Arch. vol. 9) and Padtynski (Virch. Arch. vol. 79) the excretion first begins in the convoluted tubules, the intercalary tubes, and the ascending limb of Henle's loops. The blue pigment appears in the form of granules in the striated epithelial cells, and stains both the free border and the nucleus. When excretion is in full activity small crystals appear in the cells. When the injection is made some time before death, and is followed by a second large injection of indigo-carmine, the vascidar loops and epithelial cells of some of the glomeruli become stained. It thus appears that indigo-carmine may be excreted by the glomeruli. When a solution of egg-albumen is injected (Runeberg, Ribbert, and others), this substance is excreted by the glomeruli, and the same is true of haemoglobin and sugar. These examples show that matters may pass into the urine both from the glomerular loops and from the intertubular capil- laries, traversing in the process the epithelial lining of the glomeruli or of the urinary tubules (compare Adami, Journ. of Physiol, vi 1885). 521. Classification according to causation. The morbid changes affecting the kidney may be appropriately grouped in five classes, according to their mode of origin. First, we have those affections which are attributable simply to disturbances of the circulation. Secondly, a group of changes produced by the deposit in the kidney of solid substances, brought to it as such by the blood or precipitated from their solutions. A third group includes those degenerations and inflammations of the kidney which are due to impurities or disorders of the blood. As the kidney is one of the chief organs by which abnormal substances are eliminated from the blood, it is much exposed to disturbance of its own functions and even to lesions of its structure from this cause: and as a fact a very large number of renal disorders are thus produced. A fourth group of disorders are traceable to injurious influences affecting the parenchyma of the kidney through the infundibulum. Thus mere obstruction of the outflow of the urine from the bladder may give rise to grave disorder of the kidney. The danger is of course greater when matters that are actively noxious reach the kidney by this route. The fifth group comprises the tumours or new growths of the kidney. Cohnheim and Roy (Virch. Arch. vol. 92, Proc. Camb. Phil. Soc. iv 1881) have investigated the mechanism of the renal circulation. They find that when a sensory or a splanchnic nerve is stimulated, in asphyxia, and in strychnine-poisoning, the volume of the kidney rapidly diminishes. When the renal artery on one side is tied, no effect is produced on the circulation of the