243 ART. 637.] DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION. are generally filled up in part by clear or turbid liquid: these are described as cysts. If they are small and numerous the apparent perforation of the tissue is also described as eiat cribU (' Gruyere cheese condition': see Savage and White, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxiv 1883). Vesicular oedema or cysts of the pia mater would appear to depend on the presence of closed lymph-spaces, congenital or acquired, in the pia mater and subarachnoid tissue. An interesting affection of the cord called syringomyelia should be mentioned in this connexion. The term is applied to a condition in which fissures and cavities occur, chiefly in the posterior grey commissure and about the median plane, and often extending longitudinally over a considerable distance. Not infre- quently the excavation extends into the posterior horns, traversing them sometimes transversely sometimes obliquely, or into the posterior columns; very rarely extending as far as the anterior horns, the anterior commissure, or the lateral columns. These fissures and cavities may occur in any part of the cord, they have even been observed in the medulla oblongata (Schultze). They are always enclosed by a delicate more or less cellular neuro- gliar tissue, and are in part due to the breaking down of some gliomatous proliferation of this tissue. Their contents are either clear liquid or a kind of hyaline jelly. The proliferation which precedes their excavation starts as a rule in the neuroglia about the central canal, though it may also originate in remoter portions of either grey or white matter. From the facts at present before us it seems likely that the starting-point in most cases is some congenital histological anomaly in the posterior commissure, which interferes with the closure of the central canal and so with the development of the posterior columns. In many cases syringo- myelia is thus a consequence of congenital hydromyelia (Leyden), and that either because some abstricted remnants of the medullary tube persist behind the central canal, or because malformation of the central canal is associated with histological changes in the parts about it which predispose to abnormal proliferation and subse- quent disintegration of tissue (Art. 650). With reference to the supposed abstraction and persistence of parts of the medullary tube it should be mentioned that several observers (Schuppel, Pick) have recorded instances of duplication and even triplication of the central canal for some part of its length, each tube being lined with cylindrical epithelium. Various explanations of syringomyelia have been given. Simon and F. Schultze refer it to the disintegration of proliferous neuroglia. Langhans maintains that obstructions to the flow of blood or lymph, such as are caused for example by the growth of tumours, give rise to dilatations and even sacctdations of the central canal. Such saccular diverticula extend through the posterior columns and adjacent parts usually in a downward direction, and so form as it were a segment of a second canal behind the central canal. Dropsical lacunae may also bo formed by the collection of gelatinous liquid 16—2