ART. G18.J 181 FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. that some of the lobules have been affected long before the others, and so does away with the idea of a ' lobar caseous pneumonia.' The pleura over the affected lobules is always inflamed, and usually covered with fibrinous exudation. As the lobules break down the pleura may suppurate and become caseous, and so break down in like manner. When lobular caseous bronchopneumonia is found in a lung we always find also older morbid changes in it, usually at the apex but at times in other parts. They may be slight, consisting of a few scattered points of caseation, or some indurated nodules, or dilated bronchi. In other cases the lobular caseation is but a terminal complication of an advanced nodose, caseous, or indurative bronchopneumonia. The lobular process may in fact be combined in a multitude of ways with the nodose. Lobular caseous bronchopneumonia is most frequent in children, though it is by no means rare in adults. By many pathologists it is referred to as scrofulous pneumonia. 618. Bronchopneumonia from actinomycosis, glanders, and syphilis. The pulmonary affection set up by Actinomyces (Art. 134) takes the form of a bronchopneumonia, the diseased patches being of miliary size or larger. In cattle the patches are hard and nodular, and contain in the centre the ray-fungus as a kind of nucleus (Pflug, Hink). In man the affection tends to be suppurative (Israel, Ponfick), yellow or greyish-yellow patches being formed which presently by softening and suppuration give rise to corresponding cavities. These may become larger and larger, and at length break through the pleura. The characteristic feature of the process is of course the presence of the ray-fungus in the pus and in the infiltrated and disintegrated lung-tissue. When glanders-bacilli (Loffler and SchUtz, Bent. med. Woch. 52, 1882; Cornil and Babes, Les bactiries Paris 1885) reach the lung by aspiration, they give rise to the formation of nodules and nodes chiefly beneath the pleura. At first they are soft and grey- ish, afterwards they become firmer and in part caseous. Patches of lobular extent and greyish-red in tint, and patches of broncho- pneumonic suppuration, are also met with in glanders, and there may be a certain amount of haemorrhagic inflammation. When the disease affects a number of contiguous lobules, large portions of the lung may in this way be infiltrated and ultimately break down. When the bacilli reach the lung through the circulation they induce pneumonia, which resembles in many respects the bronchopneumonic forms just referred to. Syphilis first of all gives rise to bronchitis, which in course of time leads to peribronchial induration, with occlusion and dilatation of bronchi (Arts. 578—579). According to some catarrhal, indu- rative, suppurative, and caseous forms of bronchopneumonia may also result from syphilis. The caseous forms are said to include both lobular and nodular varieties.