82 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXIII. and submucosa. Vesical tuberculosis is usually accompanied by tuberculosis of the pelvis of the kidney (Art. 550) or, in the male, of the genital apparatus : it is indeed probable that the process starts in some part of the latter system. The mucous membrane of the urinary tract, and especially that of the bladder, frequently contains a number of small aggregations of lymphadenoid tissue, and in catarrhal cystitis these become perceptibly swollen. They then look very much like tubercles, especially when they are surrounded by a hyperaemic zone. Long-continued engorgement of the vesical blood-vessels leads to varicose dilatations of the veins, chiefly those near the neck of the bladder. They are sometimes referred to as vesical haem- orrhoids, and now and then obstruct the evacuation of the bladder or give rise to haemorrhage. Amyloid degeneration of the vesical mucous membrane is not rare, but as a rule it is not apparent without the aid of the microscope. In very rare instances the amyloid deposits may lead to induration of the mucosa and submucosa. Keferences :—Virchow, Krankhafte Geschwiilste n; Ebstein, Ziemssen's Cyclop, xv; Klebs, Handb. d. path, Anat. I; Maas, Krankh. d. Blase (Konig's Handb. d. Chirurgie); Chavasse, Etude sur la tuberculose des organes urinaires Paris 1872 ; VoisiN, Tuberculose des organes genito-urinaires, Bulletin de la soc. anat. de Paris xlix (1874); Kirmisson, Cystite, ibid. L (1875); Ddrand, Cystite chronique, ibid. LH (1877); Steinthal, Virch. Arch. vol. 100; Du Casal, Cystite chronique, Cat. hebd. de me'd. 1877; W. Koberts, Brit. Med. Joum. 2, 1881 ; Harrison, Internal, encyclop. of surgery vi London 1886. 562. The commonest of the tumours of the bladder is the so-called ' villous cancer' or vascular papillomatous fibroma. It consists of a number of long and slender villi or papillary growths, springing from a comparatively narrow base: each villus consists of a delicate stroma containing wide and thin-walled vessels and covered with stratified epithelium. The growth does not extend into the deeper layers of the mucous membrane, and sometimes attains the size of a small apple. It is single or multiple, and is usually situated towards the base of the bladder not far from the neck, so as sometimes to obstruct the channel during micturition. The vessels and the stroma being alike delicate and fragile, the tumour is very apt to bleed and may thus prove very dangerous to the patient. From time to time fragments of the villi are detached and passed with the urine. The growth is not malignant and should not be described as a ' cancer.' Primary carcinoma of the bladder is a very rare growth; it occurs both in men and women and takes the form of a nodular or fungous or papillary tumour, at times extending over a con- siderable part of the bladder, and penetrating the submucous and even the muscular coat. The cancerous infiltration may thence extend into neighbouring parts. Secondary carcinoma is more frequently met with, the in-