THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVII. 30 The smallest deposits are not visible to the unaided eye. More abundant precipitation gives rise to the powdery or coarsely gran- ular deposits known as gravel or to renal calculi. Uratic deposits are most frequently met with in new-born infants, especially such as die two to fourteen days after birth. In the first two days of life and in infants who have not breathed they are rarely found. Apparently the rapid metabolic changes which take place after birth are accompanied by the production of so much uric acid that the urine is incapable of holding it all in solution. These deposits in infants are sometimes described as uratic infiltration. They consist of ammonium and sodium urates; they lie in the medullary zone, and appear as pale yellowish-red streaks. In adults the uratic deposits usually take the form of sand or gravel, and lie both in the cortex and the medulla, as well as in the calices and pelvis of the kidney: they vary greatly in amount in different cases. In the calices and pelvis they often become aggregated into concretions from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut, and are then known as renal calculi. Occasionally these take the form of large branching casts of the infundibulum and its ramifications, and then look something like masses of coral. Uratic calculi are hard, yellow brown or red in colour, and are smooth or slightly nodular on the surface. Small calculi have a crystalline fracture, but the larger ones are amorphous and often wood-like in texture. These deposits whether in the substance of the kidney or in its pelvis may give rise to disorders of secretion or to inflammation (Art. 555). References on uratic deposits :—Gabrod, On gout and rheumatic gout London 1876; Heller, Die Harnconcretionen Vienna 1860; Neubaueb and Vogel, Analyse d. Harns Wiesbaden 1881; Salkowski and Leube, Die Lehre vom Ham Berlin 1882 ; Chabcot, Lecons sur les maladies dufoie et des reins Paris 1877 ; Cohnheim, Allg. Path, n Berlin 1882 ; Senatoe, Ziemssen's Cyclop, xvi ; Ebstein, ibid, xv, and Die Natur u. d. Behandlung d. Gicht Wiesbaden 1882, trans, by Scott, London 1885 ; Vibchow, Berl. hlin. Woch. 1884; Dickinson, Renal and urinary diseases m London 1885 ; Ralfe, Diseases of the kidneys London 1885. On uratic infiltration in infants :—Virchow, Gesammelte Abhandlungen Frankfort 1856 ; Schlossberger, Arch. f. physiolog. Heilk. ix (1850) ; B. Schultze, Deutsche Klinik 1858; Raphael, Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1870; Liman, Handb. d. gerichtl. Med. n (1882). According to the researches of Carter (Urinary calculi London 1873), Ord (Influence of colloids London 1879), Ebstein (Congress f. innere Med. Wiesbaden 1883) all uratic concretions contain a colloid or albuminoid matrix, in which the various salts are deposited and by which they are cemented together. 532. Concretions of calcium phosphate and carbonate deposited in the kidney constitute what is called calcareous infiltration. It occurs chiefly in aged persons, in whom resorption of the bony structures is active; but it may occur without such resorption. The deposits are in the form of white grains, spherules, and nodules, and lie for the most part in the looped tubules of the medullary