ART. 559.] DISORDERS OF THE BLADDER. 79 When albuminous matters escape into the tubules with the urine and there coagulate, we have formed, as already described (Art. 533), the cylindrical masses known as tube-casts; and some of these are usually washed out and reach the bladder. They are either entirely colourless and hyaline, or granular, or waxy in appearance and tint. Casts of each of these forms may have adhering to them epithelial cells or their detritus (albuminous and fatty granules), free nuclei, white and red blood-cells, granular deposits of urinary salts, and crystals of calcium urate or oxalate. When there are bacteria in the urine some of them may adhere to the casts: it is however to be noted that the granular masses enveloping some of the casts have of late been erroneously taken for micrococci. All the urinary deposits and concretions described in Arts. 531 and 532 are ultimately carried into the bladder, unless their size prevents them passing through the ureter. Scolices and daughter- cysts occasionally escape from a renal hydatid. And when the ova of Bilharzia or Filaria are deposited in the mucous membrane of the urinary tract we are apt to find both ova and embryos in the urine. 559. When the urine has reached the bladder it is liable to be mingled with abnormal products derived either from the diseased bladder-wall or the parts adjoining, or from the exterior. Blood is one of the most common admixtures, and is met with in cases of intense inflammation, ulceration, or engorgement of the wall of the bladder, and in the vascular lesions accompanying scurvy, haemorrhagic small-pox, scarlatina, etc. Not infrequently traumatic lesions such as are caused by stone or external violence, and tumours such as papilloma, sarcoma, and cancer, are the cause of vesical haemorrhage. Vesical epithelium is shed into the urine in inflammation (cystitis) and in cases of papillomatous (so-called villous) tumour. In the latter instance villous fragments of the growth are also occasionally found. Masses of cancer-cells are frequently found in the urine in cancerous ulceration of the bladder. In all the forms of cystitis we find pus-cells in the urine. When rupture and perforation of the bladder-wall has taken place matters of very various kinds may reach its interior. A pelvic abscess may yield pus, and ulcerating uterine carcinoma putrid detritus and cancer-cells, a rectal ulcer or fistula faeces, a dermoid cyst its characteristic contents, and so on. The most common matters entering the bladder from without are bacteria, and less frequently yeast-cells. If the urine offers them suitable conditions for growth and they are not forthwith removed from the bladder, they proceed to multiply; micrococci and sarcinae do so most readily, bacilli less frequently. Children and others sometimes pass solid objects (such as pencils, hair-pins, straws, etc.) through the urethra into the