[CHAP. LXVI- 18 THE URINARY ORGANS. lobulation, but the several capillary loops are no longer distinguish- able. So far as we know, the steps of the change are collapse, thrombosis, and hyaline thickening of the capillary-walls; these latter then become fused into a homogeneous mass, the glomerular epithelium meanwhile disappearing. The capsular epithelium persists somewhat longer, but ultimately perishes in like manner, and the collapsed or shrunken capsule comes thus to surround directly the altered glomerulus, without any intervening layer of epithelium (Fig. 203 b). The capsule itself is not usually altered: sometimes however a slight thickening takes place, and the wall then looks homogeneous or occasionally fibrillar in structure. A glomerulus thus reduced to a homogeneous spherule is of course no longer permeable, and the vas afferens is either obliterated or delivers its blood directly to the vas efferens. The corresponding urinary tubule is also rendered functionless, and quickly becomes atrophied. The epithelial cells dwindle, lose their characteristic shape and striation, and are transformed into small cubical cells. They may remain as a regular lining or lie without order in the collapsed lumen of the tubule (Fig. 202 /, Fig. 203 d). In some of the tubules the cells become entirely disintegrated (Fig. 203 e), or while diminished in size they become fatty, and sprinkled with oil-globules. Fig. 203. Contracted Kidney with arterial sclerosis. (Stained with alum-carmine, mounted in Canada balsam: x 150) a artery with thickened and fibrous / tubules with stratified and unstrati- intima fied colloid casts and spherules b obliterated glomerulus denuded of g dilated tubule containing a homo- epithelium geneous mass beset with shed c capsule collapsed but not thickened epithelium d tubule collapsed and filled with h cyst containing stratified colloid small cells spherules e tubule empty and collapsed i stroma of cells and delicate fibres In atrophic conditions the altered epithelial cells usually stain very deeply with the ordinary nucleus-staining reagents. In the lumina of the functionless tubules, straight and convoluted, we frequently find homogeneous colloid cylinders and