CHAPTER XCIII. DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION. 635. The quantity of blood contained in the vessels of the cerebrospinal system is subject to very considerable physiological variations. It is greater when the system is functionally active than when it is at rest: the pulsations of the basilar arteries give rise to a pulsatile movement of the convexity of the brain, and its surface likewise rises during expiration and sinks during inspiration. Local hyperaemia of a particular region causes an efflux to other parts of the lymph from the circumvascular channels and of cerebro- spinal liquid from the subarachnoid spaces and from the ventricles. When hyperaemia is general space is found for the excess of blood by the efflux of cerebrospinal liquid into the lymphatics of the head, neck, and trunk, and into the venous sinuses of the dura mater. Morbid congestion or arterial hyperaemia of the brain and cord is occasioned when the activity of the heart is greatly and abnormally increased, or when the resistance to dilatation of the afferent arteries or of the arterioles of the meninges and nerve- substance is morbidly diminished. In the latter case the hyper- aemia may remain local. Passive hyperaemia or engorgement takes place when the return of venous blood from the cranial cavity and the spinal canal is checked, as it is for instance in certain diseases of the heart and lungs. Local engorgement may be due to intracranial thrombosis, or to tumours, exudations, etc. passing upon the veins. Venous engorgement of the brain or cord is most apparent in the meninges, whose vessels are more or less distended with blood, and owing to the transparency of the membranes can be followed to their minutest ramifications. The meninges have but few capillaries, and hence the injection of the venules is most marked, though a few of the arterioles are also distended. It must however be kept in mind that the appearances after death are far from representing exactly the conditions that prevailed during life : as soon as death takes place the blood is in a measure free