THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXX. 112 we have not only thickening and infiltration of the bronchial wall but also a secretion which contains many cells and little liquid. In chronic pulmonary tuberculosis the bronchi are always affected, and hence there are always a certain number of obstructed bronchioles in the diseased region (Fig. 217): in many cases indeed most of the smaller tubes are occluded, and this fact contributes essentially to produce the characteristic appearance of the consolid- ated lung. The contents of an occluded bronchus always become caseous (a), so that on section it looks like a round encapsulated caseous node. Only when a considerable length of the tube is filled with caseous detritus and when the section cuts it more or less longitu- dinally does it present the appearance of a cylindrical or elongated deposit. The boundary between the caseous contents and the bronchial wall is sometimes sharp and distinct, sometimes ill-defined. The former appearance is more characteristic of obstruction from ca- tarrhal bronchitis, the latter of tuberculosis. The bronchus and the tissue around it are generally thickened in the neighbourhood of the caseous deposit. The thickening after catarrh is oftenest simply fibroid, after tuberculous inflammation (Fig. 217 b) it is more cel- lular and in part necrotic and caseous. The caseous contents of the tubes may after a time become calcified. Foreign bodies also may by impaction cause obstruction of the bronchial tubes. They give rise, according to their chemical and physical character, to indurative, purulent, or it may be putrid, inflammation. The cicatricial formations which follow upon destructive inflam- mation may by their contraction cause marked constriction and obstruction of the bronchi: this is well seen in syphilitic disease of the larger tubes. In rare instances obstruction is caused by the growth of intra- bronchial tumours. Lastly, we may have stenosis by compression from pulmonary tumours or inflammatory growths, and at the root of the lung from enlarged lymphatic glands, aortic aneurysms, or oesophageal tumours. For the consequences of bronchial obstruction as affecting the lung see Chapter LXXXIH. 581. Hyperplasia and induration. After long-enduring bronchial catarrh thickening and papillary overgrowth of the mucous membrane is sometimes though not frequently observed. The change is never extensive, and is of small importance. The induration and thickening of the entire bronchial wall, which results from certain forms of inflammation, is much more important. The change is most freqiiently observed in the neigh- bourhood of plugs of inspissated secretion, though it occurs also in unobstructed tubes and sometimes extends over a considerable number of their ramifications. It may also affect the peribronchial