ART. 637.] 241 DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION. appear somewhat widened out. This change sometimes extends over the whole brain and cord, sometimes is limited to a particular region: in the latter case the boundary of the dropsical part is indefinite or it is so sharply defined that the distended subarachnoid and pial spaces resemble cysts (cystic or vesicular oedema). These dilatations are met with both on the surface and in connexion with the processes of the pia mater which lie inside the ventricles, namely the telae choroideae and their plexuses. The latter especially sometimes carry cysts of the size of a bean or larger and filled with clear liquid. The cyst-walls consist of vascular con- nective tissue covered externally with flat polygonal epithelium and internally with endothelium. The cavity of the cyst is often tra- versed by vessels and delicate fibrous bands. Small cysts of this kind are of no great importance, but the larger ones may cause serious compression of the brain and lead to disturbance of its functions. Ventricular dropsy implies the distension and dilatation of one or all the ventricular cavities: hydromyelia leads to cylindrical, fusiform, globular, or more rarely saccular dilatations of the central canal. The causation of accumulations of liquid within the central nervous structures is not entirely the same as that of dropsy in other organs: to a certain extent they are of a peculiar nature, and to understand them we must somewhat widen our notion of what dropsy implies. An oedema of engorgement may take place over say the whole of the brain whenever the outflow of venous blood from the cranial cavity is impeded. This occurs suddenly when the heart is paralysed, as in some cases of typhoid (Buhl, Krapelin), when the veins of the dura mater are occluded by thrombosis, etc. Chronic disease of the heart or lungs impeding the circulation will in like manner give rise to chronic oedema. Acute engorge- ment usually leads to accumulation of liquid in the parenchyma of the brain as well as in the subarachnoid tissue, chronic engorge- ment usually in the latter only or chiefly. Local oedema of engorgement is very common round about haemorrhagic foci, tumours, localised venous thromboses, etc. When by reason of a tumour or of inflammatory change the outflow of blood from the choroid plexuses is impeded, and the outflow of cerebrospinal liquid from the ventricles and central canal is at the same time checked, liquid will accumulate to a greater or less extent in these cavities and distend them. Accord- ing to Langhans fusiform and even saccular dilatations of the central canal are sometimes produced by this cause; they project into the posterior longitudinal fissure of the cord and usually take a downward direction. He also states that clefts or spaces containing effused liquid occasionally appear in the grey matter of the posterior commissure and of the anterior and posterior horns; these may fitly be described as dropsical lacunae. s. p. a. 2 16