ART. 612.] FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. 165 vomicae. When such a vomica contains a decomposing or irritant secretion, the latter may gain access to the air-passages and by aspiration pass into the terminal branches of other bronchi. In this way fresh bronchopneumonia is set up, and may lead to miliary or nodular or lobular inflammation, ending in local recovery, or it may be in suppuration or induration like the first. The pleura is affected in all bronchopneumonic indurations that are not entirely limited to the deeper parts of the lung; thickening and adhesions are the usual result. So also it is not unusual to find thickening of the peribronchial and the interlobular fibrous tissue. 612. Tuberculous bronchopneumonia. Tuberculosis of the lung may begin in one of three ways : namely, as embolic tuberculous pneumonia, as primary tuberculous bronchopneumonia, and as tuberculous lymphangitis. Embolic tuberculous pneumonia has already been considered (Art. 606). It takes the form either of disseminated miliary tuberculosis and terminates fatally, or of a localised affection leading to the formation of one or more isolated caseous nodes. These nodes may occur either in a part of the lung previously healthy, or in tissue already altered by disease. Tuberculous lymphangitis (Art. 609) takes the form of a local eruption of tubercles in the neighbourhood of a tuberculous focus outside the lung. A caseous bronchial gland or tuberculous disease of the vertebral column is the commonest starting-point of the affection. Primary tuberculous bronchopneumonia attacks both healthy and diseased lung-tissue. In the former case tubercle-bacilli, either alone or accompanied by other irritant matters, gain access with the inspired air to the respiratory parenchyma, settle in some ramification of the air- passages, and in the first instance give rise to a nodular patch of inflammation (Fig. 236 g). Occasionally the bacilli may at once be taken up by the lymphatics and give rise first in them to the formation of granulomatous nodules. When the tubercle-bacilli alone enter the lung, these are the only changes induced; but if at the same time other sources of irritation are at work the tuberculous changes are accompanied by more or less extensive bronchitis and bronchopneumonia. As the case goes on the latter affections pass away, often however leaving behind bronchi obstructed with secretion, or collapsed and indurated patches sometimes containing caseous foci; so that the affected part of the lung includes one or more caseous patches (e) containing bacilli, caseous masses free from bacilli, obstructed or occluded bronchi, and grey cirrhotic areas. In certain cases patches originally containing bacilli may become free from them, and undergo cicatrisation with or without caseous enclosures. The specific infection frequently reaches a lung already