ART. f)14.] 175 FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. ardoise) or white fibrous tissue. They may contain no caseous residues; but usually some exist scattered through the tissue, and are derived either from bronchopneumonic patches or from altered bronchial secretion. In these nodules and patches it appeal's likely that bacilli may persist for a considerable time, though we may take it for granted that they ultimately perish. Sooner or later the caseous residues become calcified. In this way, so long as the affected patches are few, tuberculous disease of the lung may be entirely recovered from, or at least stayed from further advance, so that for years no new portion of the lung is invaded. Of course so long as any bacilli remain in the tissue, we can hardly speak of the recovery as complete. When a large number of tuberculous foci exist in the lung, in some of them absolute or relative recovery may take place, but it is extremely unlikely that this will occur in all simultaneously. So long however as a single patch undergoes disintegration and forms a nidus for the multiplication of the bacilli, the danger and the probability remain that the process may start afresh by extension through the lymphatics, the blood-vessels, or the air-passages. The term tuberculous bronchopneumonia (including the associated morbid changes) is to a great extent coextensive with the clinical term pulmonary phthisis. The two ideas are however not identical. The lung may be destroyed by inflammations which have nothing to do either with tuberculosis or with any other of the infective granulomata. Inasmuch as phthisis primarily connotes simply destruction of tissue, it might very well be taken to include all destructive inflammations of the lung. It is usual however to limit the term to those destructive inflammations which are progressive, that is to say which advance either steadily or intermittently from bad to worse, and that independently of fresh injury from without. This limitation then excludes those affections of the lung wherein an acute inflammation is followed by a partial destruction of tissue, which however has no tendency to extend or become general. Even then the terms phthisis and tuberculosis are not equivalent. For as we have seen certain non-specific inflammations may take on a progressive character, and of the specific granulomatous infections glanders, syphilis, and actinomycosis lead to affections of the lung analogous to tuberculous disease. The varieties observed in the course of tuberculous bronchopneumonia, in other words the diversities in the nature of the individual foci of inflammation, depend partly on differences in the reaction of the pulmonary tissue to irritation in different persons, but chiefly no doubt on the character and quantity of the irritant disseminated through the lung. And though our view at present is that the essential and specific irritant in tuberculous phthisis is the tubercle-bacillus, yet it can hardly be gainsaid that in many cases other injurious agencies co-operate with it. Many pulmonary cavities or vomicae contain not only tubercle-bacilli but also other bacilli and micrococci, and these too may have a destructive action, modifying and perhaps now and then intensifying the action of the specific virus. It is possible that the caseo-purulent form of phthisis may be due to a complex infection of this nature. With regard to recovery from pulmonary tuberculosis, many cases have been recorded; but until the discovery of the tubercle-bacillus it was impossible to decide with absolute certainty whether when a cicatrix was found in the lung the antecedent affection had or had not been tuberculous. The process of healing referred to in the toxt undoubtedly occurs: wo would