216 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCI. fifth, sixth, seventh, and part of the eighth cranial nerves (Fig. 248). Fibres pass from the cerebellum into the formatio reticularis through the anterior peduncle of the cerebellum. The tegmental portion of the crura cerebri lies beneath the aqueduct of Sylvius and is connected with the corpora quadrigemina and the anterior medullary velum. Beneath the aqueduct lies the nucleus of the third and fourth cranial nerves (Fig. 248). The formatio reticularis which lies to the ventral side of these nuclei contains (in addition to longitudinal bundles of fibres from the anterior and lateral columns of the cord) fibres from the corpora quadrigemina and anterior medullary velum, and from the cerebel- lum. The former proceed to the pons by way of the arcuate fibres, the latter by way of the anterior peduncles. The bundles from the cerebellum enclose in the part beneath the anterior corpora quadrigemina a reddish island of grey matter known as the red nucleus. Many of the fibres of these bundles terminate in this nucleus (Gudden), a few are seen to pass beyond it (Flechsig). These latter fibres pass to the exterior parts of the lenticular nucleus, to the optic thalamus, and to the cortex of the parietal lobe. The fibres thus proceeding to the cortex pass through the internal capsule and form the largest part of the sector of the corona radiata called by Flechsig the tegmental radiations (Haubenstrahlu ng). The tegmental portion of the inter-brain (Art. 630) consists of the subthalamic region, and the grey matter forming the floor of the third ventricle and called the interpeduncular region, the latter being made up of the posterior perforated lamina (Fig. 247 the corpora albicantia (or mammillaria Cm), and the tuber cinereum Tc). The subthalamic region lies between the optic thalamus and the prolongation of the substantia nigra of the crura cerebri, and extends forwards to the anterior perforated lamina (Lpa). It is made up of a grey nucleus, the corpus subthalamicum (Fig. 245 cs) or body of Luys, and a dorsal layer of white matter connected with the optic thalamus and containing fibres proceeding to the corpus striatum from the red nucleus and superior cerebellar peduncles. The dorsal stratum of the cerebral axis includes the cere- bellum, the corpora quadrigemina, and the thalamus. The cerebellum contains grey matter partly spread over the cortex, partly collected in the interior in masses known as the nucleus dentatus, nucleus emboliformis, nucleus globosus, and nucleus fastigii, respectively (Stilling). These nuclei are by means of the fibres of the white matter of the cerebellum connected not only with each other, but also (through the several cerebellar peduncles) with various nuclei and tracts already described in the tegmental and peduncular regions; they are thus in relation with the cord on the one hand and with the optic thalamus, lenticular nucleus, and cerebrum on the other. The quadrigeminal region consists of two anterior and two