ART. 539.] HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. 47 Urinary and renal diseases London 1885; Holsti, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxvin (1885); Saundby and Greenfield, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxi. Klebs excludes the non-inflammatory renal degenerations from the category of Bright's disease, and identifies the latter with primary interstitial nephritis; the associated changes in the epithelium he regards as_ secondary. Johnson regards the presence or absence of epithelial degeneration and desquamation as an essential feature, and treats of nephritis as desquamative or non-desqua- mative, each form having its subordinate varieties. Grainger Stewart speaks of 'Bright's diseases', and distinguishes three forms—the inflammatory form, the amyloid form, and the cirrhotic or contracting form. Of the first he describes three stages—that of inflammatory exudation, of fatty change, and of atrophy. Virchow {Cellular Pathology London 1860; also distinguishes three forms—parenchymatous nephritis, indurative interstitial nephritis, and amyloid degeneration. Bartels divides Bright's disease into—acute paren- chymatous, chronic parenchymatous, and interstitial nephritis. Lecorche' distinguishes only a parenchymatous and an interstitial form. Charcot on grounds partly clinical, partly anatomical, makes three—the first characterised clinically by its rapid course, scanty urine with abundant albumen, and dropsy, and anatomically by its large white kidney; the second by its chronic course, abundant urine with little albumen, absent or slight dropsy, and con- tracted kidney; the third form is the amyloid degeneration. Weigert divides Bright's disease into parenchymatous degenerations and true nephritis ; the former are all acute affections; the chronic forms are but modifications of one and the same process : he deems it impossible to distinguish interstitial from parenchymatous forms, inasmuch as all forms begin with degeneration and loss of epithelium, and then pass into the stage of reactive interstitial inflam- mation. Dickinson makes three classes—tubal nephritis (acute and chronic), gramdar degeneration with hyperplasia and contraction of the stroma, and depurative disease (or amyloid degeneration). Aufrecht speaks of an acute, a subacute, and a chronic nephritis, and maintains that the primary change is an affection of the tubular epithelium, the vessels and the fibrous structures being affected secondarily: he describes amyloid disease as a nephritis. Wagner considers that Bright's disease is a clinical term, implying a disease in which the urine exhibits certain morbid changes: he treats it under the four heads of (1) acute Bright's disease, (2) chronic Bright's disease, (3) con- tracted kidney, (4) amyloid kidney. Leyden defines the term Bright's disease from the clinical or physiological point of view (Congress f. innere Med. Wies- baden 1882) as an affection characterised by albuminuria and dropsy, including in the term renal degenerations, pyelonephritis, amyloid change, etc. Kosenstein (ibidem) thinks on the other hand that the term must be defined according not to clinical but to pathological and anatomical characters. Cornil uses the term albuminous nephritis as equivalent to Bright's disease and treats the various forms under the heads of acute nephritis, parenchymatous or epithelial nephritis, and interstitial nephritis. The above summary shows how widely authorities differ as to the content of the term Bright's disease, and as to the anatomy and pathogenesis of nephritis. We might easily carry our references further and so bring out still greater differences. This is true not only of the older authorities, but even of the most recent, the latest discussions on the subject showing clearly that on the basis of our present knowledge no reconciliation of the conflicting views is possible. This being the case the author has thought it best in dealing with the pathological anatomy of the nephritic process to refer as little as possible to the existing literature of the subject, and to be guided mainly by the results of his own investigations. This he has done with less hesitation inasmuch as for some years he has given considerable attention to the subject and has collected an extensive series of observations on it. During the last two or three years he has had the further advantage of watching the results of a research on nephritis carried out in his presence by Dr Nauwerck. His work