188 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXIX. new follicles are separated from each other by fibrous tissue and blood-vessels. Pure hypertrophy of the thyroid is however not very common. It may be general or localised, and may exist from birth. Adenoma of the thyroid is an epithelial new growth occurring in the form of isolated nodules, or diffused over one or both lobes. It consists of vascular non-typical gland-like tissue, which persists in this form or is transformed more into the likeness of the normal gland-tissue. Wolfler distinguishes four varieties—the foetal, the gelatinous, the myxomatous, and the columnar-celled. These ade- nomata occasionally recur after excision, and are not easily distin- guished from carcinomata. Foetal adenoma arises from some rudiment of embryonic tissue, though its growth may not be apparent till puberty or pregnancy: it occurs in nodes from the size of a pin's head to that of the fist. Its tint is pale-yellow, dark-red, or brownish-black, according as it is less or more vascular. The nodes grow in much the same way as the gland originally developes; the smallest nodules accordingly consist of proliferous masses of round or oval not very sharply-defined cells, interspersed with dilated and varicose vessels. By degrees these vessels are differentiated into narrow capillaries and wider trunks, and then again assume gradually the typical configuration of the vascular system of the gland, while the proliferous epithelial cells become arranged in groups and follicles. The nodes do not however reach this degree of development, but remain in various intermediate stages. Adenomata, both small and large, which are traversed by numerous cavernous vessels, and so have a dark-red tint, are very liable to internal haemorrhages. The glandular follicles within an area of extravasation not infrequently dilate into ramifying channels, which by and by are constricted off into vesicular cavities. Large extravasations are sometimes transformed into hyaline masses which afterwards become vascularised and traversed by bands and cords of proliferous glandular cells. In other instances scar-like or homogeneous cicatricial tissue is formed, and contains here and there dilated blood-vessels. Gelatinous adenoma is a tumour, nodulated, tuberous, or smooth, occupying the whole gland or a single lobe, and on section appearing of a fairly uniform jelly-like consistence. The scanty stroma of the gland is in fact pervaded and distended by variously- sized lumps of colloid substance. The growth starts in the glandular cells which lie between the true follicles. As these cells multiply they give rise to new follicles or acini which secrete the colloid matter. These growths indeed are related on the one hand to the simple hypertrophies, on the other to medullary carcinoma. Wolfler distinguishes two varieties of gelatinous adenoma—interacinous adenoma, and cyst-