304 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. mass (Figs. 271, 276), consisting of a loose reticulum containing liquid in its wide meshes. When the hyperplasia is considerable the tissue becomes close-textured, firm, and sclerotic (Fig. 275), consisting of a felted mass of fine fibrils with scattered nuclei. The vessel-walls are in general thickened, the adventitial lymph- spaces are dilated, and contain at least in the earlier stages round- cells and granular cells. When the nerve-elements are not entirely destroyed the sclerotic tissue still encloses a few ganglion- cells (Fig. 278 b) and nerve-fibres. The anterior roots and the peripheral motor nerves become atrophied when the ganglion-cells are destroyed, and assume a grey wasted appearance. The muscles supplied by them likewise atrophy. When the inflammation affects the grey matter over its whole cross-section, the horns become after a time strangely warped and distorted, and presently undergo gelatinous degeneration or sclerosis (Fig. 277). The white columns are frequently affected by secondary exten- sion of inflammation from the grey matter. Sometimes however the white matter is inflamed from the beginning, and we have leukomyelitis (X-eu/eo? white) associated with poliomyelitis. In such cases the whole cross-section of the cord or the greater part of it undergoes destructive inflammation (transverse myelitis), and afterwards gelatinous and sclerotic changes (Fig. 278). The Fig. 278. Sclerosis after acute transverse myelitis. (Section taken from a man of 40 at the level of the loiuer dorsal region: hardened in Mutter's fluid, stained with carmine, and mounted in Canada balsam: x 6) a gelatinous change in grey matter b surviving ganglion-cells c atrophied and sclerotic white matter disease moreover frequently extends over a considerable segment of the cord. Secondary ascending and descending degeneration of the tracts after a time follows on the local lesion. Myelitic foci are usually single, though sometimes they are multiple, as in disseminated myelitis. The multiple patches are usually small, and may be scattered throughout the whole cord.