CHAPTER XCVI. TUBERCULOSIS AND SYPHILIS. 660. Tuberculosis of the central nervous organs and their membranes is in most cases embolic in origin, though the disease may also extend by continuity from neighbouring tissues, such as the bones. When the tuberculous virus reaches the brain or cord by way of the blood-vessels a form of tuberculosis is set up which we may call disseminated tuberculous meningoencephalitis or me- ningomyelitis. Where the bacilli first lodge their irritative action gives rise to minute inflammatory foci (Fig. 279, c e f), which in the subarachnoid and pia mater and in the substance of the brain and cord are distributed chiefly along the course of the small veins, in part also amid the capillaries of the nerve-substance itself. The pial sheaths (/) of the vessels are at first the chief seat of the inflammatory infiltration of cells; presently however the process extends also to the adjacent tissues (e). In a short time the collections of cells form nodules (d) and nodular clusters (a b), or more rarely larger continuous patches (k). Disseminated embolic tuberculosis of the brain and cord runs in general a somewhat rapid course, and proves fatal in a few weeks' time. In addition to the nodular eruption there is often wide- spread diffuse inflammatory exudation of a sero-purulent or fibrino- purulent character, the pus infiltrating the meninges and the brain-substance, and often accumulating in the ventricles. It is only in rare cases and these very chronic (Fig. 279) that diffuse exudation fails to accompany an abundant eruption of tubercles. In the soft membranes the first visible sign of tuberculosis is the appearance of small grey nodules usually lying along the course of congested vessels. By and by they become larger, and the subarachnoid spaces are seen to contain a turbid yellowish-white pus-like exudation. When the choroid plexuses are invaded they too contain grey nodules, and are swollen and infiltrated with a turbid liquid. The ventricles are more or less distended with the like exudation; sometimes they are enormously dilated, and the brain-substance thereby so compressed that the convolutions are 20—2