ART. 622.] 191 THE THYROID GLAND. normal thyroid gland. In considering the statement of Cohnheim and Heschl—that normal thyroid hypertrophies and apparently innocent adenomata may give rise to metastases—we must therefore bear in mind also that malignant adenoma and carcinoma are occasionally accompanied by metastatic growths whose structure closely resembles that of non-malignant adenomatous tissue. Even in the parent-tumour in the latter case we at times find structures very similar to normal thyroid acini with a lumen and a regular epithelial lining. Carcinoma of the thyroid occurs in regions where goitre is endemic, and usually developes in an existing goitrous growth. As a rule it is soft and medullary, forming nodose tumours from the size of a hen's egg to that of a child's head, and seated in one of the lobes of the gland. It is usually surrounded by normal gland-tissue or adenomatous tissue. Rarely is the whole gland transformed to cancer-tissue. Secondary growths, and irruptions into the trachea or larynx, are common; but both are often absent for a long space of time, the tough cortical substance of the gland offering con- siderable resistance to the advancing growth. Wolfler distinguishes three forms of carcinoma—alveolar, columnar-celled, and squamous-celled. Alveolar carcinoma is the commonest, and occurs as greyish nodes surrounded by fibrous tissue and seated in the parenchyma of the gland, or as a uniform medullary infiltration of the goitrous tissue. The proliferous epithelial cells are usually rounded or oval, or sometimes poly- morphous; they form globular or elongated masses or nests separated by fibrous bands of varying thickness Between the nests we frequently find persistent remnants of normal follicles. The development of the growth begins in the epithelial cells which lie 'unutilised' or form compact masses between the gland- follicles. The lining epithelium of the follicles takes no part in the development of the cancer, which thus in its mode of growth recalls the gelatinous adenoma in which it often originates: it is indeed distinguishable from the latter only by the fact that no trace of reversion to any glandular type appears in it. The old gland-follicles often persist for a long time amid the advancing growth, but are ultimately encroached on or filled up by the new- formed cancer-cells. Columnar-celled carcinoma corresponds in structure to the columnar-celled parts of the normal gland and to columnar-celled adenoma. It takes the form of nodes whose cut surface is white or greyish-red. The neoplastic tissue is charac- terised by the presence in it of solid cords of cells, and of tubules and follicles clothed with cylindrical epithelium and containing papillary ingrowths exactly resembling those of papillary cyst- adenoma. Wolfler regards this form also as originating in the interacinous epithelial cells. Squamous-celled carcinoma is a rare form (Forster, Eppinger, Lucke, Kaufmann, Braun). As there is normally no squamous epithelium in the thyroid it is not