102 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXVIII. Fibromatous nodules are also most frequently met with on the vocal cords. They have broad or narrow bases, and are smooth or warty, usually of the size of a lentil or small pea but sometimes as large as a hazel-nut. Some are pale, others vascular, some hard, others soft. Lipoma and myxoma are very rare. Sarcoma is somewhat more frequent; it generally resembles a nodular fibroma, but is rather softer. Chondromata have been several times described: they start from the cartilages and form small knotty growths. Primary carcinoma is most apt to arise about the vocal cords and the laryngeal sinuses. It takes the form of nodular or papil- lary growths or of diffuse infiltrations, which break down and leave sinuous ulcers with an irregular floor. The ulceration is usually accompanied by purulent inflammation. The destruction of tissue is sometimes very extensive, going far beyond the limits of the larynx. Secondary cancerous growths are more common, extending into the larynx by continuity from the oesophagus, pharynx, or thyroid gland. True carcinomatous metastasis is somewhat rarer. A few cases of adenoma have been noted; the growth takes the form of an irregular nodose tumour. Cysts due to retention of secretion in the mucous glands are usually met with in the laryngeal sinuses and about the epiglottis; but they are not very common. Of the parasites of the larynx other than the specific and other bacteria already mentioned we need only refer to the Saccharomyces or O'idium albicans (Arts. 224, 436) or thrush- fungus, and the Trichina spiralis (Art. 232). The fungus gives rise to the characteristic white films; the Trichina lodges in the laryngeal muscles. Now and then round-worms (Ascaris lumbri- coides, Art. 228) find their way into the glottis and give rise to attacks of dyspnoea. References on laryngeal tumours :—Eppinger, loc. cit. ; von Ziemssen, loc. cit. (for recent bibliography by Lefferts see supplement London 1881) Fauvel, Traitd' d. maladies d. larynx Paris 1877 ; von Bruns, Neue Beobaclvt. iib. Kehlkopfpolypen Tubingen 1873, 1878 ; Oertel, Deut. Arch. f klin. Med. xv; Morell Mackenzie, Growths in the larynx London 1876, and op. cit. ; Burow, Berl. Min. Woch. 13, 1877, Laryngoskopisch. Atlas Stuttgart 1877 ; Beschorner, Berl. klin. Woch. 42, 1877 ; P. Bruns, Die Laryngotomie zur Entfernung intralaryngealer Neubildungen Berlin 1877 (the latter and also von Ziemssen describe laryngeal tumours consisting of thyroid-gland tissue); Ziegler, Virch. Arch. vol. 65 (tumours consisting solely of amyloid substance); Butlin, Malignant disease of the larynx London 1883 ; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist, n London 1884; Asch, New York Med. Joum. 1884 (chondroma, with references); Cervelato, Lo Sperimentale 1881 (cysts, with cases); Schroetter, Monatschr. fur Ohrcnheilkunde 1884 (lipoma). According to P. Bruns out of 1100 tumours of the larynx 602 were papillomata, 346 fibromata, 73 mucous polypi, and 27 cysts. 76 per cent, of the tumours were situated on the true vocal cords or at their anterior attachment. On round-worms in the larynx see Kuchenmeister and Zurn {D^