THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXIX. 194 So-called multilocular cystoma probably arises in the same way: the atrophy of the interacinous tissue and its vessels goes on almost to complete disappearance, and the follicles thus come together and coalesce. When the secretion of colloid substance is very rapid some of the acini may burst, and their contents pass into the surrounding tissue. This tissue is thus disintegrated and destroyed, and a cyst is formed containing colloid material and frequently extravasated blood. In other cases cicatricial tissue is developed. Sometimes an over-distended acinus ruptures through the skin or into the larynx or trachea. Amyloid degeneration takes place in thyroid glands other- wise normal, and also in goitres: it chiefly affects the blood-vessels. Local amyloid deposits are also met with in the form of lardaceous or waxy nodes (Beckmann). Acute inflammation of the normal or goitrous gland (thyroi- ditis, and acute strumitis) occurs as a result of traumatic injury, of septic or pyaemic infection, after typhoid, diphtheria (Brieger), and rheumatism ; it may also arise idiopathically, and causes more or less painful swelling of the part. If suppuration takes place one or more pus-cavities or abscesses or even patches of gangrene result, and these may rupture into surrounding parts. Chronic inflammation and induration are usually due to internal necroses: other forms are very rare. Tuberculosis of the thyroid gland is not very common, though in haematogenous miliary tuberculosis eruptions of tubercle are met with in it: larger tuberculous foci have also been described. Gummata of the thyroid are very rarely met with. Eeferences on thyroiditis and strumitis :—Beck, Arch. f. physiol. Heilk. 1851 ; Bauchet, Oaz. hebd. 1857; Martinache, DeVinflam. aigue du corps thyr. Paris 1861 ; Chantreuil, Oaz. des hopitaux 1866 ; Staudenmeter, Zeitschr. f. chir. Med. u. Geburtsh. 1870 ; Kocher, D. Zeitschr. f. Chir. x ; Koellinger, De la thyr. aigue Paris 1877 ; Bogehold, Deut. med. Woch. 1880 ; Puichaud, Paris me'dical 1881 ; Weigert, Virch. Arch. vol. 88 (tuberculosis); Chiari, Strieker's med. Jahrb. 1878 (tuberculosis); Virchow, op. cit.; Demme, loc. cit. • Wolfler, op. cit.; Dumolard, Lyon me'dical 44, 1878; Brieger, Charite'- Annalen vm 1883 (diphtheria); Cornil and Banvier, Man. Path. Hist. I London 1882 (tuberculosis); Barth and Gombault, Pr ogres medical 1884 (syphiloma). 623 a. The aetiology of goitre is at present imperfectly understood, but we know something at least of the conditions under which it usually appears. We have already seen (Art. 621) that increased flow of blood to the thyroid body, or obstruction of the flow from it, may occasion a very marked swelling of the gland. Such a swelling is not always transient, but sometimes leads to permanent enlargement from dilatation of the vessels and hyperplasia of the gland-tissue. Excessive use of the voice, blowing of wind-instruments, carrying heavy loads, frequent ascending of steep hills, frequent sexual excitement, menstruation,