210 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [chap. xci. lace. From the grey matter other nerve-fibres pass into the neigh- bouring white columns, which either serve to connect parts of the grey matter on different levels or pass directly upwards to the base of the brain or the cerebrum. The longitudinal columns are subdivided into various tracts according to their physiological function. The best-known are the anterior (or direct) and lateral (or crossed) pyramidal tracts (Pvb, Psb), the lateral or direct cerebellar tract (Ksb), the column of Goll or funiculus gracilis (fgr), and the posterior root-zone or funiculus cuneatus (fen). The anterior pyramidal tract (column of Tiirck) and the lateral pyramidal tract contain centrifugal or efferent fibres, and form the direct path of communication between the grey matter of the parietal zone of the cerebral cortex and that of the anterior horns. They traverse the internal capsule (Fig. 245 ci) and the peduncular tract, the lateral tract passing to the opposite side at the decussation of the pyramids, and the anterior tract passing directly down on the same side and crossing at some point in the cord by means of the anterior commissure to join the anterior horn of the opposite side. The anterior tract (Pvb) lies medially in the anterior column, the lateral tract (Psb) in the posterior part of the lateral column. The cross-section of each diminishes as we pass downwards from the medulla. The relative size of the crossed and uncrossed portions is very variable and in some cases unequal on the two sides, the section of the cord being then unsymmetrical. Usually the anterior tract disappears about the middle of the dorsal region. In some cases however it extends down to the lumbar region, and in others is entirely absent, that is to say the decussation at the pyramids is complete. The direct cerebellar tract (Ksb) connects the grey matter of Clarke's column with the cerebellum. It runs along the outer margin of the posterior portion of the lateral column, and extends as far as the end of the dorsal region. The remaining region of the anterior column is termed by Flechsig the principal tract of the anterior column, and that of the lateral column the mixed lateral tract. The fibres in these regions serve apparently to connect different portions of the grey matter of the cord with one another and with the brain, and include root- fibres which course longitudinally for a short distance along the cord before entering the grey horns. The median portion of each posterior column is called the column of Goll or funiculus gracilis (fgr); the lateral portion (fen) is the column of Burdach or cuneate funiculus. The column of Goll connects the posterior roots of the cord with the tegmental region of the medulla, i.e. with the nucleus of the funiculus gracilis (Fig. 249 ng), probably also with the internal accessory olivary nucleus (oam), and thence by way of the internal capsule and the corona radiata with the parietal zone of the