CHAPTER LXIV. MALFORMATIONS OP THE URINARY ORGANS. 516. The urinary organs include the kidneys, the ureters, the bladder, and the urethra. The kidney is the secreting organ, by which water and a number of other substances are separated from the blood. The other organs named serve merely to convey the urinary secretion out of the body. The development of the urinary organs is subject to certain abnormalities, but they are seldom such as to imperil life by preventing or seriously hindering the secretion and removal of the urine. The consequent malformations consist chiefly of devi- ations from the normal form, position, or number of particular parts: anomalies in the minute structure of the kidney are much more- rare. Such anomalies however are of great importance, inasmuch as they may prove the starting-point for tumours of great size. The post-embryonic disorders of the urinary apparatus affect either the kidney or some part of the urinary tract. Many of them continue to affect the part only in which they arise, while others extend by continuity to contiguous parts of the tract and in some cases ultimately affect the whole apparatus. Most urinary disorders are haematogenous, i.e. traceable to some disorder of the blood; and of all the urinary organs the kidney is most liable to be affected. Disease of the kidney or of the internal parts of the urinary channels is much less frequently the result of injurious agencies reaching them from the urethra. A third and not unimportant group of affections arise from the extension to the urinary organs of morbid processes affecting adjacent parts. Development of the urinary organs. In man the urinary organs are derived from two distinct groups of structures which may be described respectively as embryonic and permanent (Kolliker), or primary and secon- dary. The primary structures are the primordial kidneys or wolffian bodies, and the wolffian ducts. The wolffian duct on each side arises from a columnar mass of cells (the intermediate cell-mass) lying between the lateral mass of the mosoblast and the anterior part of the protovertebral column. This mass presently becomes hollowed out into a duct opening posteriorly into that part (urogenital cloaca) 1—2