ART. 648.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. 275 (1877); Wolff, Arch, f. Psych, xn; Hamilton, New York vied, record xv (1879); Babesiu, Virch. Arch. vol. 76; Ormerod, Brain vn 1885 (a critical digest of the literature). 648. From what we have said in the last Article it will be seen that both in tabes dorsalis and in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis the morbid change follows the course of certain definite tracts, and the question at once arises whether in these cases we have what with Flechsig we may call primary systemic diseases. If by a ' system' we mean one definite group of homologous nerve-fibres and their ganglion-cells, and this only, these affections can hardly be described as simply ' systemic,' inasmuch as at least in tabes various systems are involved. Tabes would in that case be properly described as a combined systemic disease (Strumpell). But if we include under the term ' system' a group of fibres and cells all functionally related, both tabes and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis are systemic. The morbid change in tabes has been very variously inter- preted by different authors. Leyden regards it as a degenerative pro- cess, Cyon, Friedreich, and Frommann regard it as inflammatory, Charcot calls it a parenchymatous inflammation, Erb a chronic myelitis, Adamkiewicz thinks the essential fact is a chronic degeneration of the connective tissue. Minute microscopic examination shows however that the process is essentially a degenerative one, having nothing to do with inflammation; and Strumpell accurately expresses the facts when he describes it as a degeneration of functionally related nerve-fibres. According to Pierret, Charcot, and Strumpell the disease begins with the degeneration of certain strands of fibres running through the middle of Burdach's columns (Fig. 266 a), and usually in the lumbar and dorsal regions of the cord. At the same time degenerate fibres appear in the posterior nerve-roots, and along the inner (or median) aspect of Goll's columns in the dorsal and cervical regions there is a sclerotic strip. After a time Bur- dach's columns in the cervical region are likewise invaded. We have thus at first patches and strips of degeneration occurring in cen- tripetal fibres which enter the cord through the posterior roots. This is followed by secondary ascending degene- ration of the fibres initially attacked in the lower part of their course. Tabes according to this view then is a localised multiple ascending degeneration prima- Fig. 2C6. Commencing scle- rosis OF THE POSTERIOR COL- UMNS. [After CHARCOT: section from the dorsal region: x 5) a sclerotic patch in the cii- neate fasciculus b sclerotic patch in the col- umns of Goll 18—2