31 ART. 533.] RENAL DEPOSITS DERIVED FROM THE BLOOD. zone, though some may be observed in the cortical tubules, in the fibrous stroma, and even in the glomeruli. Calcium phosphate may form gravel and small calculi in the pelvis of the kidney; the calculi are smooth and facetted, and of various degrees of hardness. Calculi of calcium carbonate are very rare; they are brown or yellow and hard. This salt however not infrequently forms a con- stituent of other kinds of calculi. Oxalic acid, whether ingested with the food or formed from the decomposition of uric acid, may be deposited in the kidney or its pelvis as 'dumb-bells' or octahedral crystals of calcium oxalate. This occurs when the amount of acid sodium phosphate in the urine is insufficient to maintain in solution the quantum of oxalic acid present. Within the kidney the oxalate forms white deposits. In the pelvis it forms pale or dark brown warty or spiny calculi. Pure oxalate calculi are very rare. The salt more frequently occurs as a constituent of uratic calculi. Triple-phosphate of ammonium and magnesium occurs as soft crumbly white concretions, seldom pure, but frequently forming a coating on uratic calculi. The deposit is produced chiefly in ammoniacal decomposition of the urine; ammonium carbonate is first formed, and this precipitates the earthy and ammonium phos- phates. The crystals of the triple-phosphate have usually the so- called 'sarcophagus-form', derived from a rectangular prism by cutting off the angles and edges. In rare cases renal concretions and calculi are found which con- sist of cystine, an abnormal constituent of the urine containing sulphur and crystallising in hexagonal plates. They have rounded corners, are soft and wax-coloured, and show a radiate crystalline fracture. Xanthine calculi are extremely rare: they are pale or dark brown, very hard, and not unlike uratic calculi. In one case (Ord, Trans. Path. Soc. xxix 1878) a concretion consisting chiefly of indigo has been found in the kidney. All the forms of renal concretion and calculus may give rise to inflammation, and occur on one side or on both. The condition of a kidney containing a calculus in its pelvis is frequently referred to as nephrolithiasis (Art. 553). References :—Beneke, Die Oxalurie Gottingen 1852 ; Neubauer and VogeJj, loc. cit. ; Salkowski and Leube, loc. cit.; A. Frankel, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. n ; Litten, Virch. Arch. vol. 80 ; Roberts, loc. cit.; Wagstaffe, Trans. Path. Soc. xix (1868); Beale, Urinary deposits (plates) London 1883 ; Dickinson, loc. cit.; Roberts, loc. cit. Litten asserts that masses of micrococci within the glomeruli and tubules may become calcined. The calcareous deposit in the glomeruli, tubules, and renal epithelium may be so excessive that the function of the kidney is gravely interfered with. 533. When the glomeruli and their epithelium are seriously injured, or the circulation through them greatly disturbed, certain