CHAPTER XC. THE THYMUS GLAND. 623 b. The thymus is a gland-like body, which grows to a considerable size in the foetus and during the first two years of infancy: after that however it ceases to grow, and about the tenth year undergoes retrograde change into fibrous and adipose tissue. It lies in the superior mediastinum behind the first piece of the sternum, extends upwards nearly to the thyroid, and is made up chiefly of two flat elongated lobes which are in contact or coherent along their medial borders and are enclosed in a thin connective tissue. The lobes are subdivided into lobules by fibrous septa. The structural units or acini closely resemble lymphatic glands, and are composed of a loose reticular or adenoid stroma, filled with indifferent or lymphoid elements and larger multinuclear cells. In the peripheral parts of the acinus the stroma is somewhat closer and more densely filled with cells than in the centre, and thus a cortical and a medullary layer are distinguished. The thymus possesses no duct, but it has numerous lymphatics whose exact course is however only imperfectly understood. Small accessory glands are not uncommon; they usually lie above the gland and near the thyroid. Congenital absence of the gland occurs only in highly malformed foetuses. The weight of the thymus in a new-born infant is about 14 grammes; in a child of two it is about 26 grammes: this is subject however to considerable variation. According to Stieda, Kolliker, His, and Watney, the thymus developes from the epithelium of a branchial cleft, and is t thus originally an epiblastic or epithelial structure. The epithelial cells however disappear after a time, and the development of the characteristic lymphadenoid tissue starts from mesoblastic (con- nective-tissue) elements. The function and exact significance of the thymus is not certainly known. Watney, who has made it the subject of extensive investigation, thinks that it takes part in the formation of red and white blood-cells. The former are supposed to be developed in certain nucleated cells containing haemoglobin.