266 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. intracranial pressure reaches a certain point no further displace- ment can take place, the capillaries of the brain are compressed, the circulation comes to a stand-still,, and the impaired nutrition of the nerve-elements results in impairment of their functions. If the pressure is not quickly relaxed by re-absorption of the effusion or by efflux of blood, so that the circulation is restored, and death does not at once ensue, extensive degenerative changes may take place in the parts first compressed. In remoter parts the pressure relaxes as the first give way. Thus it is very common to find a zone of softening immediately surrounding an extravasation of blood or an effusion into a ventricle, but not extending to any great distance. Eeferences:—Erb, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia xiii ; Leyden, Klinik d. Riicken- markskrankh. 1874—76; Kahler and Pick, Arch. f. Psych. X; Charcot, Diseases of the nervous system n Loudon 1880, Gaz. me'd. 1874; Bouchard, Diet. ency. d. sciences me'd. (second series) vm; Michaud, Sur la mye'lite et la miningUe dans les mal. verte'br. Paris 1871; Bergmann, Deutsche Chirurgie part 30, 1880; Kahler, Prag. Zeitschr. f. Heilk. m; Adamkiewicz, Wien. Sitzungsber. xlviii 1883, Wiener Klinik vm, ix (1884); Wernicke, Fortschritte d. Med. in 1885. Kahler experimented on compression of the cord by injecting melted wax into the spinal canal. Sclerosis resulted only after several months. 645. Softening from contusion and concussion. When the substance of the brain or cord is contused or crushed, or even violently shaken, it frequently undergoes complete and rapid necrosis and ultimately disintegrates. A moderately abundant spontaneous haemorrhage may have this effect, but among mechanical causes the commonest are dislocation and fracture of the vertebrae, blows or falls on the head (concussion), cuts or stabs penetrating the bony coverings of brain or cord, and projectiles reaching the central nervous tissues. Splinters of bone, such for example as occur in depressed fracture of the skull, should also be included. The death of the nerve-substance is doubtless due to the direct injury to its elements and the rupture of their connexions, and in part to the disturbance of the circulation and consequent failure of nutrition. When the injury is very extensive it may speedily result in death. Where the contusion is less severe, as is the case of a blow on the head, the part directly injured or even the entire brain is the seat of capillary haemorrhage, so that on section it appeal's mottled or speckled with spots of red. Extreme violence may cause immediate disintegration of the tissue, so that it becomes a mere mass of debris and blood. Meningeal haemorrhage is an almost invariable accompaniment. The changes resulting from traumatic destruction of the nervous tissues, provided septic inflammation is excluded, exhibit the characters partly of anaemic and partly of haemorrhagic necrosis. Liquefaction and absorption of the products of disintegration ensue, the process not being essentially different from that described in