CHAPTER CI. REGENERATION OF NERVES. 668. Union of severed nerves. It has long been known that nerves which have been cut through, and whose function has been thereby completely abolished, are capable of repair, and in the course of weeks or months recover their conducting power. Recent surgery has utilised this fact, and seeks to bring about the speedier union and recovery of severed nerves by suture of their ends. Over fifty cases have already been published in Avhich nerve-suture has resulted in more or less perfect restoration of function, and that not only when the wounds were recent but in some cases where suture did not take place till after the lapse of months or years from the time of injury. The union and recovery of severed nerves has been often observed in animals as well as in men, and in recent years a large number of experiments have been made to throw light on the fact and on the histological process by which it is brought about. Unfortunately we do not yet fully understand all the steps of this process: opinions differ as to the fate of the peripheral end of a severed nerve (Art. 667), and it is therefore scarcely surprising that authorities are not agreed as to the details of regeneration. Hardly two of the multitude of writers on the subject take exactly the same view, and we are therefore unable to give an account of it which shall be wholly satisfactory. When the functional continuity of a nerve is interrupted by section, crushing, compression, etc. various things may happen.- The nerve-fibres only may be injured, the nerve remaining still macroscopically continuous; or it may be completely severed, the ends retracting some small distance apart, or becoming so widely separated that there is no possibility of their reuniting naturally. The regenerative process can be best followed in the second case, which is that most frequently observed experimentally, the parted nerve-ends being reunited by the intercalation of a new-formed piece of nerve. The wound that severs a nerve is immediately followed by an inflammation, which leads to swelling of the cut ends, and the deposit of exudation between them. In the subsequent week or two granulations and cicatricial tissue are formed, while the central arid peripheral ends undergo the changes referred to in Art. 667. s. p. a. 2 22