342 [CHAP. CII. PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. bundles and of the nerve generally is usually much less densely infiltrated. Slight inflammations resolve without leaving any trace: severer attacks result in degeneration of some of the nerve-fibres. If the inflammation is suppurative or gangrenous the nerve rapidly breaks down and perishes, becoming of a dirty yellowish-white, grey, or greyish-green. The connective-tissue elements are however less vulnerable and long resist dissolution. If the affection is chronic, degeneration of the nerve-fibres ultimately sets in, with the breaking up of some of the medullary sheaths. The axis-cylinders persist for a long time, though they too at length perish; and thus a certain number of the fibres disappear outright, the sheaths of Schwann collapsing (/). Wherever an axis-cylinder decays degeneration takes place all down the peripheral portion of that fibre (Art. 667). As the medullary sheaths break down the tissue of the nerve is beset with drops of myeline and granule-carrying cells. In process of time the chronic inflammation leads to thickening and condensation of the connective tissue, and this with the atrophy of the nerve-elements gives the nerve by degrees the appearance of a fibrous cord. Whether the nerve as a whole is thicker or thinner than in health depends on the proportion between the fibrous hyperplasia and the nervous atrophy. Both in simple and in compound nerves the inflammation may and sometimes does extend over the whole cross-section. In compound nerves the separation of the bundles becomes less distinct, though it is not obliterated even when the atrophy and fibrous changes are very advanced. When the process has been accompanied by haemorrhage the altered tissue is frequently pigmented. Chronic neuritis accompanied by great fibrous hyperplasia has been called by Virchow proliferous neuritis: if it extends upwards or downwards we speak of it as ascending or descending neuritis respectively. One of the commonest causes of neuritis is mechanical injury (cutting, bruising, etc.) by a wound or blow: the inflammation results in fibrous hyperplasia, but if it becomes septic suppuration or gangrene may set in. Moreover the inflammatory process sometimes extends to a nerve from the adjacent tissues; thus nerves running through a wound may undergo granulation or even suppuration without having received any direct injury, and the like extension takes place in the case of other inflammations. For example, it is extremely common for cerebrospinal nerves traversing an inflamed meninges to be themselves invaded by the inflammatory infiltration. And inflammations of the bones lead to indirect degeneration by compression or to direct inflammation of the nerves that traverse them. This also happens to nerves lying iu the neighbourhood of chronically inflamed or tuberculous