189 ART. 621.] THE THYROID GLAND. adenoma. Interacinous adenoma, as it may briefly be called, is the commonest form of goitre and the largest. It consists essentially of gland-like vesicles or cysts filled with colloid substance and lined with cubical or spherical epithelial cells. Between the fully- formed vesicles lie rudimental cell-masses and follicles in process of development. The epithelial cells of the older vesicles may multiply to such an extent as to fill them up {adenoma interacinosum proliferans). Interacinous adenoma may co-exist with the foetal form. Cystadenoma is characterised by the formation of cysts varying in size from that of a lentil to that of a goose's egg. The proliferous cells which these cysts contain undergo fatty and colloid degeneration. The intercystic vessels and fibrous tissue become atrophied. In some parts the interacinous cell-groups grow and break into the cysts, and there undergo colloid change: or they may simply push the cyst-epithelium before them, and the papillary in- growths thus formed tend to become covered with cylindrical cells. New cysts are sometimes formed in the substance of these ingrowths, and thus the original cysts may become filled with minor cysts. Nodes containing cysts and ingrowths of this kind are described as proliferous cystadenomata, and occasionally lead to the formation of enormous goitres in which the whole of the thyroid is included. In the human subject however they are not common: in the monkey and the dog these formations occur in the normal gland. The neoplasm is usually most characteristically developed in the central parts of the goitre; the periphery consists mainly of non- excavated follicles and cell-masses. The intercystic stroma is frequently fibromyxomatous, or consists of hyaline tissue resulting from haemorrhagic infiltration. The colloid substance is formed only in small quantity by the cylindrical epithelium of the papillary ingrowths. Sometimes the glandular follicles and vesicles become calcified, their epithelium undergoing fatty degeneration. Myxomatous adenoma (follicular and tubular) occurs both in young and in old patients: it takes the form of soft nodose growths of various sizes and often highly vascular. The neoplasm consists of a hyaline structureless or faintly striated matrix, occasionally in part calcified, interspersed with solid globular cell- masses, follicles, and cords of cells of various forms. Normal follicles are as a rule conspicuously absent. The myxomatous condition is secondary, being a transformation of a foetal or interacinous adenoma. The transformation is due to haemorrhagic infiltrations of the tumour-tissue such as are known to occur at puberty, during the catamenia, and during pregnancy. The infiltrated area assumes a hyaline appearance, or if it is partially vascularised it becomes more fibrous and ultimately fatty and calcareous: if the vascularisation is more complete the glandular cells multiply and the growth is pervaded with new- formed cell-masses and tubules. Columnar-celled adenoma is characterised by the presence in