FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. ART. 613.] 171 iii the cellular parts. The vessels which traversed the part occupied by a solid nodule of this kind are always destroyed. The lung-tissue around the nodule is the seat of an exudative inflammation, whose intensity differs greatly in different cases. As a rule the neighbouring alveoli (i) contain extravasated liquid and cells, desquamated epithelium, and often fibrin (i,). The alveolar walls are infiltrated with leucocytes, especially around the veins (k). The lymphatics, peribronchial and periarterial (d) as well as interalveolar and interlobular (I), are also in some measure affected by the inflammation, being more or less distended by exuded matters (d I). When the nodule is subpleural, the pleura is simultaneously inflamed. When a number of tuberculous bronchopneumonic foci are thus formed by aspiration, each passes through much the same series of changes as were described in the case of the primary focus. Some continually enlarge and lead to progressive tuberculous lymphan- gitis, others soften and break down and by aspiration of their contents lead possibly to fresh bronchopneumonic infection. At all stages of the disease there is still another possible mode by which the infective agent may be disseminated. Chronic inflammatory change in the lung always extends in some degree to the blood-vessels. Plastic inflammation leads to fibrous thickening of the walls of arteries and veins, and by endarteritic thickening some of the smaller branches may be obliterated altogether. In tuberculous inflammation of the lung the walls of the capillaries as well as those of the arteries and veins are especially apt to be affected. When an actual tuberculous node or nodule is formed the capillaries perish outright, while in the walls of the larger vessels appear granulomatous growths having all the characters of tubercle, and developing some into fibrous thickenings and some into caseous ulcers. These several morbid changes naturally lead to local disorders of the circulation, and to more or less copious haemorrhages (haemoptysis), which are most apt to follow when the walls of arteries are diseased and are eroded or give way. But there is also the danger that the caseous growths on the walls of veins may break into the interior of them, and permit the tuberculous detritus and bacilli to enter the circulation and spread the infection to distant organs. This however appears not to happen at all frequently, no doubt because before a tubercle actually breaks through the intima into the vein thrombosis is induced by the diseased state of the wall, and in this way the vein itself is effectually blocked up (compare Cornil, Journ. de I'anat. 1880; Mugge, Virch. Arch. vol. 7G; Arnold, ibid. vol. 88; Weigert, ibid. vols. 77, 87, 104). The tubercle-bacilli may at a very early stage of the disease pass from the peribronchial lymphatics into the bronchial glands, and there set up tuberculous changes. Cases indeed not infre- quently occur in which only a few scattered bronchopneumonic