158 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVI. Pawlinoff, Virch. Arch. vol. 75 ; Schnitzler, Die Zungensi/philis Vienna 1880; Grandidier, Bed. klin. Woch. 1875; Gerhardt, Sitzungsber. der phys.-med. Oesellsch. z. Wiirzburg 1881; Bamdohr, Arch. d. Ileilk. xix; Thompson, Lancet 1, 1878; Saccharjin, Berl. klin. Woch. 1878; Tiffany, Amer. Journ. med. sciences 1877; Pankritius, Ueb. Lungensyphilis Berlin 1881 ; Guntz, Memorabilien 1882 ; Cornil and Banvier, Man. Path. Hist. n London 1884; Kopp, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxii ; Hiller, Charite'- Annalen 1884 (with critical summary of published cases); Birch-Hirschfeld, Lehrb. d. path. Anat. ii 1884; Goodhart and others, Trans. Path. Soc. xxviii. 608. neurogenous pneumonia. When the pleura becomes affected with inflammation (pleurisy) the underlying pulmonary tissue may be injured, either mechanically (Art. 591) or by extension of the inflammatory process to the lung. The extension takes place chiefly by way of the lymphatics, which are very abundant in the pleura and communicate directly with those of the interlobular septa. The first sign of the inflammation is exudation into the lymphatic vessels, by which they are distended—often to the dimensions of a middle-sized bronchus. Interlobular lymphangitis of this kind may result from various types of inflammation, though it is most commonly associated with purulent or fibrino-purulent pleurisy, whether set up by pyaemic (embolic) suppuration in the lung or as a primary local affection. For example, it is not infrequently met with in infants who have died of pyaemia from septic infection of the umbilicus. The distention of the interlobular lymphatics with purulent or fibrino-purulent exudation causes the lobules to be separated by zones of yellowish-white infiltrated tissue, and if the septa them- selves undergo suppuration the lobules may be loosened and isolated from each other. This form of pulmonary inflammation is accordingly spoken of as dissecting pneumonia (Hutinel and Proust, Archives generales de mid. 1882). From the septa the inflammation may spread to the peri- bronchial lymphatics and affect them in a similar way. The lobules also may become inflamed, so that the already compressed lung- tissue becomes the seat of inflammatory exudation and infiltration— catarrhal, croupous, haemorrhagic, or purulent—as the case may be. Accordingly the lobules may look red, greyish-red, or greyish-yellow, and saturated with a turbid secretion. The appearance of the lung is in fact like that of an ox dead of pleuro-pneumonia (Art. 605). If the disease is not fatal, recovery takes place by resorption, though in most cases there remains some permanent thickening of the interlobular tissues. Should residues of inspissated pus remain in the thickened septa, nodules having much resemblance to gummata are formed and have occasionally been mistaken for them. Tuberculosis may in like manner extend from the pleura to the lung, as in cases of tuberculous disease of the ribs or vertebrae; and then tubercles appear along the course of the several lymphatics. Chronic indurative and plastic inflammations of the pleura may