163 ART. 611.] FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. lobules takes place. Subpleural inflammations usually lead to inflammation of the pleura also. Suppuration and gangrene of the bronchopneumonic patches are comparatively infrequent; they are most commonly due to the aspiration of irritating liquids from the mouth or stomach, or of pus and detritus from abscesses or ulcers in the larynx or trachea, from cavities in the lung itself, and so on. As in the case of embolic abscesses and necroses, these bronchopneumonic abscesses may heal more or less completely by delimiting inflammation and cicatrisation. Death however is the more frequent result. In most cases of bronchopneumonia the exudation is absorbed, and the lung restored to its normal state. It must however be remembered that unabsorbed residues are much more common after bronchopneumonia than after croupous pneumonia. Even in the non-suppurative forms the cellular infiltration of the inter- lobular and peribronchial fibrous structures is here and there so abundant that complete resorption is impossible: the circulation of the part may indeed be so much interfered with that caseous necrosis takes place. In other cases the inflammation persists for a considerable time, and passing into a chronic condition leads to the formation of new fibrous tissue and thus to induration. Dry caseous necrosis of the pulmonary tissue occurs generally as a sequel of the lobular inflammation, especially in children suffering from bronchitis and bronchopneumonia after measles or whooping-cough. It may however occur in adults and in connexion Fio. 235. Mason's lung with bronchopneumonic fibrous nodules. (Section hardened in alcohol, and stained with picrocarmine : x 9) a group of fibrous nodules c thickened pulmonary tissue con- taining bronchi, vessels, and a few alveoli b normal pulmonary tissue with other forms of bronchopneumonia. While many of the patches of inflammation disappear by resorption, here and there the exudation persists, condenses, and by degrees assumes a dry cheesy 11—2