THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 278 [CHAP. XC1V. course it is possible that it may be primary and give rise to the characteristic degenerative changes in the cord. Westphal (Virch. Arch. vols. 39, 40, and Arch. f. Psych, xn 1882) and Claus (Allg. Zeitschr. f. Psych, xxxviii 1881) have shown that in patients suffering from paralytic dementia (general paralysis of the insane) grey degeneration or sclerosis of the posterior columns is very common. The inference is either that such patients are peculiarly liable to tabes, or that the exciting causes, which in the brain produce the changes that are manifested as progressive paralysis, are potent to give rise in the cord to grey degeneration. See Stewart, Glasgow Med. Journ. 1886. Dejerine (Soc. de biologie Feb. 18, 1882, Arch, de physiol. 1883, Comptes rendus 1883) states, what had already been pointed out by Friedreich and Westphal, that in tabes the peripheral nerves undergo degeneration. He infers that the affection is primarily a peripheral one ; but the facts afford no real ground for such a supposition. See also Sakaky, Arch. f. Psych, xv; Oppenheim and Simmerling, Neurol. Centralb. 11, 1886. 649. Multiple sclerosis. This is a peculiar affection of the brain and cord characterised by the formation of a number of grey condensed patches in the nervous tissues. It is either confined to the cord or extends over the whole of the central nervous system. The patches are some of them superficial, some deep: in the former case they can be recognised by their grey colour. Some- times they are rounded in shape, sometimes elongated and irregular. Their diameter varies from 1 millimetre to 50 or more. On section they look uniformly grey and translucent, occasionally one or two are mottled with white and softer than the others. They are usually sharply-defined against the sound tissue, though now and then a patch is surrounded by an ill-defined zone of a greyish-white or mottled appearance. In general they are firm and dry, but cases occur in which they are softer than the healthy tissue and contain a quantity of liquid that escapes on section. The dense patches (Fig. 267) consist of a close feltwork of deli- cate sharply-contoured fibres, beset with a larger or smaller number of nuclei. Within the larger and firmer patches no nerve-fibres can be seen; in the smaller and more recent or round the border of the larger ones a few still persist (a): they are usu- ally normal in appearance, though sometimes they show signs of de- generation. Fat-granule cells are in some cases entirely absent, though in general a few can be seen. The vessels (c) are at times unaltered, in other cases their walls undergo a hyaline thickening Fig. 267. Sclerotic patch in the white mattek of the cord. (Section treated with Miiller's fluid, alcohol, and carmine: x 300) a section of nerve-fibres b neuroglia-cells c blood-vessels