THE EESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVI. 154 septic embolus contain putrefactive organisms, or if these enter the infarct from the bronchi, the tissue may undergo putrid change or gangrene, and so be transformed into a foul dirty-grey or blackish mass. When the original irritant reaches the vessels of the lung in the form of fine particles, such as micrococci, which are not arrested till they reach the capillaries and there lodge, the patches of inflammation are usually small and ill-defined. At first the inflammation is as a rule haemorrhagic in character, but no infarct is formed and the patches speedily become purulent or gangrenous. In recent cases the tissue appears saturated with blood- corpuscles and pus, the pulmonary epithelium desquamated and partially necrosed. In the gangrenous patches the lung-tissue is disintegrated and dissolved (Art. 598). When the septic embolism is subpleural, the pleura is always simultaneously inflamed. The exudation is purulent or fibrino- purulent, and may extend over the entire surface of the membrane. Within the lung the suppuration and gangrene may extend by continuity to the neighbouring tissue. The inflammation set up is usually haemorrhagic and fibrinous in character, and speedily passes into suppuration and gangrene. Sooner or later the process reaches the peribronchial and interlobular lymphatics, and they become filled with serous, fibrinous, and purulent exudations, while the tissue about them becomes infiltrated with cells. This lym- phangitis and perilymphangitis may start either from an embolic abscess or from a purulent pleurisy. In the latter case the interlobular tissues are the most affected. The embolic abscesses may break through either into bronchi or into the pleural cavity, the former being the commoner event. When adhesions unite the lung to the thoracic wall or to the diaphragm, the pus may find its way to the exterior or into the abdomen. The smaller abscesses may heal up more or less perfectly by absorption of the pus, the larger by rupture and evacuation; granulations are formed round the cavity, and develope into cicatri- cial tissue. If the absorption of 'the pus is incomplete it may become inspissated and calcified. Adhesions are invariably the result of the healing of the pleuritic patches. Jurgensen and Schuppel have raised the question whether the cattle- disease called pleuro-pneumonia does not also occur in man (Wiederhann, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxv ; Sussdorf, Die Lungenseuche d. Rindcs In. Diss. Tubingen 1879; Bruylants and Verriers, Bull, de I'acad. belgique 1880 j Putz, Seuche- und Herdekrankheiten Stuttgart 1882 ; Poels and Nolen, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1884; Koranyi and Babes, Pest. med. chir. Presse 1884; Cornil and Babes, Les bacte'ries Paris 1885). This is an infective disease of bovine cattle, the main symptom being an aflection of the lung characterised by red hepatisation with extensive interlobular and pleural inflammation. The lobules appearing red and the swollen and infiltrated interlobular septa