CHAPTER LXVII. RENAL DEPOSITS DERIVED FROM THE BLOOD. 529. Deposits in the renal tissue of solid or corpuscular matters coming from the blood are of three kinds. In the first place they may consist of foreign substances circu- lating in the blood. Secondly, they may consist of constituents of the blood which have abnormally escaped from the blood-vessels, in consequence of morbid changes in the parenchyma of the kidney. Thirdly, substances normal or morbid, which in health remain dissolved, may under special conditions be precipitated in the solid form within the kidney. In many cases two or all three of these forms of deposit are met with simultaneously. Substances abnormally escaping from the blood-vessels are deposited in the fibrous stroma or in the tubules, whence they may ultimately reach the collecting tubes and the pelvis of the kidney. From the pelvis they may be at once carried off to the bladder, or they may remain for a considerable time. Many deposits give rise to an appreciable alteration of the renal structures. Others induce more or less extensive degenera- tions, or inflammations. In this respect the behaviour of bacteria reaching the kidney from the blood is very various. Anthrax- bacilli may crowd the renal vessels without giving rise to de- generative or inflammatory change, while the micrococci of pyaemia at once set up intense inflammation and wide-spread necrosis (Art. 543). According to Litten bacteria may so multiply and accumulate in the Bowman's capsules and in the tubules as to distend them and effectually block them up. 530. Leukaemic infiltration of the kidney is one of the results of leukaemia (Art. 260); it is characterised by an accumu- lation of white blood-cells in the renal tissue. When the in- filtration is well marked the kidney becomes pale-grey in colour and is somewhat swollen; or greyish nodules appear scattered through it. See VinoHow {Qesammelte Abhandl. Frankfort 1856), Friedreich {Arch. f. path. Anat. xn), Bottcher (ibid, xiv), Rindfleisch (Path. Hist. II London 1873), Greenfield (Trans. Path. Soc. xxix 1878).