CHAPTER LXXXIX. THE THYROID GLAND. 621. The thyroid gland is developed from a vesicular diver- ticulum of the throat-cavity, which afterwards becomes detached; its epithelium proliferates and grows into the surrounding fibrous tissue as cords and masses of cells, which form the primitive gland-tubes and follicles. Cavernous blood-vessels penetrate among these cell-masses and divide up the rudimentary gland.into groups of cells of various sizes. These vessels are then differentiated into arteries, capillaries, and veins of ordinary dimensions, in the meshes of which the mature glandular structures make their appearance. These consist of rounded masses and cords of cells, forming follicles which at or soon after birth exhibit a central lumen distended with secretion or containing a little granular detritus. The cells surrounding the lumen are cubical or cylin- drical and are seated directly on the blood-vessels. Between the follicles lie a number of what we may call unutilised epithelial cells; in the later stages of growth these may be fashioned into new follicles. Papillary overgrowth of the epithelium may also lead to the subdivision of an old follicle into two or more new ones. In the fully-developed gland we can distinguish a cortical and a medullary substance: the latter contains radially disposed follicles and gland-tubes, the former masses and cords of cells concentrically arranged. In later life some of the glandular follicles contain colloid matter (Fig. 242 c). In old age the substance of the gland undergoes more or less marked atrophy, the follicles shrinking to clusters of small cells or disappearing altogether, and the fibrous stroma becoming homo- geneous and indurated, and at the same time increased in relative amount. The adult thyroid consists of two lateral lobes and an isthmus uniting the two across the front of the trachea. The vertical diameter of a lateral lobe is 5—7 cm., the breadth 3—4 cm.; the width of the isthmus varies from 4 to 20 mm. Very frequently there is a middle lobe or pyramid, which rises from the isthmus and grows upward.