SI ART. 561.] DISORDERS OF THE BLADDER. may also be a result of traumatic injury, or of irritant impurities in the blood. Catarrhal cystitis is characterised by the occurrence of shed epithelium, pus-cells, mucus, and generally red blood-cells, in the urine. In recent cases the mucous membrane appears but little altered. When the secretion is purulent the membrane is covered with a film of pus, and is sometimes very much swollen. When haemorrhage has occurred the surface is of a uniform grey tint, or mottled with grey black and reddish-brown patches. If the inflammation has extended to the submucous and muscular coats, so that these are infiltrated, the whole wall becomes more or less thickened. In extreme cases the serous or peritoneal surface may be stained with bloody or slaty-grey patches, and at length purulent or putrid exudations may make their appearance in the subperitoneal tissue (pericystitis) and on the peritoneum itself. This of course happens only in very intense suppurative or septic inflammations, such as are set up by septic (bacterial) decomposition of the contents of the bladder. Certain irritants, such as cantharidin, lead from the outset of the affection to superficial sloughing of the epithelium, which becomes detached in the form of necrotic flakes and shreds. Such infective disorders as measles, scarlatina, typhoid, septicaemia, etc. are occasionally accompanied by superficial diphtheritic desquama- tions in the form of isolated yellowish patches; in other instances the exudation is croupous. When the urine becomes ammoniacal and putrid the epithelial layers, the connective tissue of the mucosa and submucosa, and even the muscular coat may in parts become necrosed and ulcerated, and at length gangrenous and putrid. In this way ulceration, gangrene, and abscess of the bladder-wall are developed, and ultimately perforation may occur at one or more points, with the result of secondary suppuration and necrosis in the neighbouring tissues. In the severer forms of cystitis the mucous surface is frequently rough and sandy with incrusted salts, chiefly triple-phosphate. As we have already pointed out (Art. 553) inflammation of the bladder may extend to the ureters and the kidney, especially when there is retention of urine (' surgical kidney'). In chronic cystitis fibrous hyperplasia of the coats of the bladder, with true hypertrophy of its muscular coat (Art. 563), is a common occurrence. Tuberculosis of the bladder begins with the formation of grey nodules surrounded by a zone of hyperaemia ; these enlarge and turn yellow, and sooner or later break down into ulcers. The ulcers have a cheesy infiltrated floor and their borders are hyper- aemia They increase in size by progressive marginal disinte- gration and by coalescence, and in this way are formed large sinuous ulcerations, involving a considerable part of the mucosa S. P. A. 2 6