TUBERCULOSIS AND SYPHILIS. 309 ART. 660.] Arteries running through tuberculous foci have first the adventitia invaded and infiltrated with cells; then the media and intima are attacked, especially the latter, which is sometimes so thickened by the infiltrating cells that the lumen of the artery is encroached on and obstructed. If then the white blood-cells gather at the diseased spot and form a thrombus the occlusion becomes complete. Tubercles in the brain or cord very rapidly undergo caseation, and only in chronic cases (Fig. 279) are large formative cells developed in appreciable numbers: in such cases the mature tubercles assume the large-celled coarse-textured appearance of those growing in lymphatic glands (Art. 342). When caseation begins in a tuberculous focus lying near a vessel of moderate size it generally extends to the walls and to the cellular contents of the vessel. The commonest seat of embolic tuberculosis is about the basal branches of the sylvian artery: the disease is generally bilateral, though often more extensive on one side than on the other, and cases are not wanting in which it is unilateral. When the bacilli reach the arterial branches that pass upwards from the sylvian fissure to the surface of the cerebrum they give rise to more or less extensive meningitis of one or both sides of the convexity. The territory of the arteries of the median plane of the cerebrum, cerebellum, medulla, and cord may in like manner be infected, and though this does not occur so frequently as in the case of the basal regions it is by no means rare. When the eruption is abundant the chief mass of tubercle is usually to be found in the soft membranes of the brain and cord; but the nerve-substance hardly ever escapes entirely. The disease of the pia mater extends to the cortex as a diffuse cellular infiltration, leading to destruction of the nerve-elements, often preceded by a remarkable swelling of the axis-cylinders and of the ganglion-cells. In like manner the cranial and spinal nerves are attacked, the cellular infiltration reaching the pial sheaths, and thence spreading along the fibrous septa into the substance of the nerves, and often inducing degeneration of the nerve-fibres. In addition to this meningeal invasion we frequently meet with tubercles growing directly in the deeper parts of the substance of the brain and cord: even in cases described as tuberculous meningitis the number of encephalitic and myelitic foci is at times very considerable; they are overlooked simply because they are apt to be very small. If the bacilli lodge in a few branches only of the meningeal or cerebral arteries the first eruption of tubercles is scanty. But as the patient does not usually die at once, the tubercles grow and coalesce into large masses lying beneath the pia mater or in the midst of the nervous tissues. In the subarachnoid spaces and in the pia mater they form flat discoid masses of various sizes, and in