INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. ART. 654.] 289 Strompell and Weigert have suggested that in cerebrospinal meningitis the infective virus may perhaps pass from the nose into the interior of tho skull. The author is unable to accept the suggestion. Though he is con- vinced that purulent meningitis does start from the nose, the phenomena of the epidemic affection appear to exclude that channel of infection. The manuer in which the inflammatory change is distributed over the various parts of the meninges, the occurrence of numerous foci within the brain and cord, the frequent accompaniment of arthritis in various joints, etc. all indicate that the poison is spread by the channel of the blood-vessels, and thus reaches the central nervous system. The inflammation of the superior nasal meatus is a mere concomitant of the meningitis. Eeferences on cerebrospinal meningitis:—Ziemssen, Ziemsseris Cyclo- paedia ii ; Wunderlich, Arch. d. Heilk. v, vn ; Zenker, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. i; Strumpell, ibid, xxx; Lancereaux, Traite" dlanat. paihol. n; Radcliffe, Reynolds' Syst. of med. n 1868; Burdon-Sanderson, Rep. of Med. Off. of Privy Council 1866. 654. Purulent encephalitis and myelitis. In purulent meningitis the underlying nerve-tissue undergoes more or less extensive inflammatory change, and we might therefore very well describe the process as a meningoencephalitis or meningomyelitis. Under certain conditions however the inflammation of the brain or cord becomes the more marked feature, and this affects even the naked-eye appearance of the affected parts. This is especially the case in traumatic inflammations, set up by cuts, blows, stabs, or gun-shot wounds. The tearing and bruising of the tissue by the mechanical violence gives rise to disintegration or necrosis of the nerve-elements, while the weapon which causes the injury may penetrate the substance of the brain or cord, or drive before it splinters of bone, or lacerate the blood-vessels and lead to haemo- rrhage into the meninges or into the nerve-substance. If the wound becomes septic decomposition of the extravasated blood and of the damaged tissue takes place, and this induces violent purulent or putrid meningitis, encephalitis, or myelitis. The decomposing matters assume a dirty-brown, grey, or greenish colour and give off a putrid odour. The actual inflammation begins with swelling of the nerve-substance and the formation of numerous points of haemorrhage. The change first appears in the part near the injury, but often spreads widely, the haemorrhagic extravasation extending deeply into the tissue and also over a considerable area of the cortex beneath the inflamed pia mater. When the vessels are lacerated ab initio the swollen nerve-substance is tinged more or less deeply with yellow from the diffusion of the colouring-matter of the extravasated blood. The haemorrhagic foci lie always in the immediate neighbour- hood of small vessels, but as they grow larger they spread beyond the region of the adventitial lymph-sheaths into the nerve-tissue, and when the change is no longer quite recent they appear infiltrated with leucocytes which have left the vessels. This migration of leucocytes is the first stage of the suppurative process, and it steadily increases, until at length the nerve-tissue is as it s. p. A. 2 19