153 FORMS OF PNEUMONIA. ART. 605.] from it. This variety of cirrhosis is indeed always characterised by the peculiarity—that it occurs not in well-defined nodes or groups of nodes, but in bands and patches which pass gradually into the air-containing tissue. This character is obscured only when secondary bronchopneumonic or peribronchial inflammation sets in. The pleura overlying the cirrhotic patches is usually thickened and adherent to the costal pleura. The patches are usually shrunken and contracted, and the intervening alveoli emphysema- tous. After a time, if the induration and contraction are at all extensive, the corresponding bronchi are distorted and more or less dilated (Fig. 230 d); sometimes they are also ulcerated. For months and it may be years a chronic inflammation of the bronchi and of the pulmonary parenchyma is kept up, its existence being indicated by the patches of cellular infiltration that lie scattered throughout the affected region. The occurrence of indurative contraction of the lung as a sequel of croupous pneumonia is regarded by most authorities as indisputable. Buhl however maintains that the form of pneumonia which leads to contraction is ab initio distinct. According to him it begins with cellular infiltration of the parenchyma of the lung, and the filling of the alveoli with desquamated epithelium, and issues in cirrhosis and caseation. He names it 'desqiiamative pneumonia' and considers it as a local manifestation of a general disease. This desqua- mative pneumonia is not however a pathological entity: Buhl's cases were partly cases of croupous pneumonia, partly of tuberculous, lobular, and con- fluent bronchopneumonia (Arts. 606, 617). Within the last ten or twelve years Ziegler has had the opportunity of examining a large number of cases of post-pneumonic cirrhosis in various stages of development, and the account in the text is drawn up from actual observation. Marchand's account agrees in the main with the above, though he has laid somewhat exclusive stress on the intra-alveolar formation of fibrous tissue. References :—Laennec, Traite" do I'auscultation mediate Paris 1819 ; Roki- tansky, Path. Anat. ill; Forster, Path. Anat.; Heschl, Prag. Vierteljahresschr. vol. 51; Eppinger, ibid. vol. 125; Marchand, Virch. Arch. vol. 82; Biermer, Virchow's Handb. d. spec. Path, v; Buhl, loc. cit.; Jurgensen, Die croupose Pneumonie Tubingen 1883; Thomas, Gerhardts Handb. d. Kindcrhrankh. ni; LfipiNE, JVouveau Bictionnaire xxvm Paris 1880; Leyden, Bed. klin. Woch. 1879; E. Wagner, Beut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxni; Nothnagel, Sammlung klin. Vortrage 66; Amburger, Beut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxni; Bastian, Reynolds' Syst. of med. n London 1876 ; Sturges, Pneumonia London 1876; Coupland, Trans. Path. Soc. xxx 1879; Heitler, Wien. med. Woch. 1884. 605. Embolic septic pneumonia always occurs in isolated patches, whose appearance varies in different cases. When infective matters enter the circulation from a septic wound, some may be arrested in the lung and give rise to embolic infarction. Suppura- tive inflammation is set up around the infarcted tissue, by means of which the latter is surrounded by a zone of yellowish infiltration, and presently is loosened and separated from the healthier tissue. It then naturally undergoes necrosis and breaks up under the action of continued suppuration, so that at length there is formed a cavity filled with pus, a metastatic abscess of the lung. If the