STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS. ART. G27-] 217 posterior quadrigeminal bodies enclosing grey nuclei, and the grey lamiua which forms the roof or dorsal covering of the aqueduct of Sylvius. The posterior bodies are connected by means of the lower fillet with the ventral aspect of the tegmental region, and by the inferior brachium with the internal geniculate body, a grey nucleus beneath and contiguous to the optic thalamus. They are probably also in connexion with the optic nerves and the cortex cerebri. The anterior bodies are connected with the optic nerves, with the tegmental region (through the upper fillet) and with the cortex cerebri. The thalamus consists of the optic thalamus in the narrower sense of the term, of the grey matter lining the cavity of the third ventricle, and of the external corpus geniculatum. The optic thalamus has extensive connexions with the cortex cerebri (these pass outwards chiefly through the internal capsule, but in part also beneath the lenticular nucleus), with the tegmental region, and also with the optic tract. The outer corpus geniculatum lying towards the outward extremity of the pulvinar or posterior tubercle of the thalamus is of a dark-grey tint; it is a centre for the nerves of vision. The cerebral axis contains no elements subserving any psychical function; the functions of its centres are partly involuntary or automatic, partly reflex. Thus the medulla contains the reflex-centres for closure of the eyelids, for coughing, sneezing, sucking, and so on, together with centres which co-ordinate certain subordinate reflexes within the spinal cord. It also contains the centres which control respiration and the movements of the heart, the vaso-motor centre, and a region which when stimulated gives rise to general convulsions. Stimulation of the pons causes spasmodic movements and pain ; its destruction is followed by paralysis—motor, sensory, and vaso- motor. In the cerebellum and quadrigeminal bodies lie centres for co-ordinating locomotion and other muscular movements. The functions of the thalamus and of the nuclei of the pons are not certainly known. References :—Turck, Wiener Sitzungsber. vi; Duval, Journ. de I'anat. et de la physiol. 1876, '77, '78, '79 and '80, Gaz. mett. de Paris 14, 1880; Gierke, Pfliiger's Arch. vol. 7 (1873); Laura, Memorie delta real. acad. di Torino 1878- 79; Wernicke, Arch. f. Psych, vn (1877); Stilling, Unters. iib. d. Baud, klein. Gehirns d. Menschen i-iii Cassel 1864—1870; Forel, Wiener Sitzungs- ber. lxvi (1872), Arch. f. Psych, vn (1877); Gudden, Corresp. f. Schweiz. Aerzte n, Arch. f. Psych, n, v, Naturforscherversammlung in Cassel 1882; Schwalbe, Lehrb. d. Neurologic Erlangen 1881; Wernicke, Lehrb. d. Gehirnkrankh. 1881; Flechsig, Ueb. Systemerkrank. d. Riickenmarks 1872, Plan d. menschlichen Gehirnes Leipzig 1883 ; Charcot, Progres me"d. 1879, Localisation of cerebral and spinal diseases London (New Syd. Soc.) 1883; Ross, Diseases of the nervous system London 1883; Landois, Physiol, d. Menschen Leipzig 1881; Landois and Stirling, Human Physiology London 1886; Hermann, Grundriss d. Physiol, d. Menschen Berlin 1882; Ferrier, The functions of the brain London 1886; Monakow, Arch.f. Psych. xiv(1883);