THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVI. Even the fibrous structures and the glomeruli may in extreme cases break down and ultimately dissolve like the rest. Notwithstanding this a focus of true colliquative softening is seldom produced, inasmuch as the products of disintegration and liquefaction are absorbed as fast as they appear. The epithelial cells are the only elements which disappear entirely over any considerable area, the fibrous tissue and glomeruli in great part remain undissolved, though of course they are greatly altered. In the smaller infarcts no part of the fibrous structure entirely dis- appears. The necrosis and disintegration of part of the tissue is accom- panied by degenerative changes, chiefly fatty, of other parts. They are later in appearing, and affect the elements which do not at once undergo necrosis. The renal epithelium, the glomeruli and their capsules, and the fibrous stroma appear beset with oil- globules, though the fatty change never becomes extensive or extreme. Fatty degeneration may affect those glomeruli whose vessels remain intact as well as those where obstruction or oblite- ration has taken place. Collapsed and functionless tubules occa- sionally become distended with oil-globules, which may also make their appearance in the lumen of tubules that remain healthy. Some portions of the embolised region may promptly receive a supply of blood from the neighbouring capillaries or from the vessels of the capsule which penetrate the tissue of the organ (Litten, Pautynski). In other parts the interrupted circulation may in a few days be partially restored by the opening up of collateral channels, or of the obstructed vessel itself through shrink- ing or absorption of the embolus. The restoration of the circulation can hardly ever (at least in the larger infarcts) be sufficient to repair fully the damage done to the renal tissue. Some of the tubules and glomeruli always perish outright, or become so atrophied that they no longer perform their functions. Complete restoration of an embolised region is in fact possible only when the normal circulation is very speedily re-established. If a glomerulus be permanently obstructed its tubule can no longer be restored to its normal state. If the conditions are so favourable that its epithelium once partially degenerated is reproduced by multiplication of the remaining cells, the new elements remain small and functionless. The same is true of the epithelial elements which do not perish outright, if the circulation through the corresponding glomerulus is permanently interrupted. The loss of tissue brought about by the embolism results in the formation of a contracted cicatrix, which looks grey or reddish according to the blood it contains, and in later stages may become slaty-grey or brown from pigmentation. In large infarcts extending through the whole thickness of the cortex the centre of the cicatrix shows no trace of renal structure, but is occupied entirely by fibrous tissue partly representing the