ART. 545.] HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. 59 In many cases it is difficult to make out definitely in what way a chronic parenchymatous nej)hritis has begun. In other cases it is clearly the sequel of an acute affection. So far as microscopical investigation indicates it is possible that all the varieties of acute nephritis above described, except the suppurative form, may occasionally terminate in the chronic parenchymatous form. Moreover the various degenerative processes described in Arts. 534—537 may be combined with secondary inflammatory changes, and so give rise to the morbid appearances of chronic nephritis. Virchow, Forster, Langhans, and Friedlander describe in certain cases of nephritis a multiplication of the nuclei of the glomerular capillaries, which may at times become very considerable. Nauwerck has confirmed this by showing that the endothelial cells of the capillaries swell up and multiply (Fig. 209, Art. 540). Litten (Charitd-Annalen iv) states that in the nephritis following scarlatina and relapsing fever concentrically stratified connective tissue is rapidly formed within Bowman's capsules. According to the account in the text this would appear to be, not new connective tissue, but stratified fibrin enclosing nuclei (Fig. 213 g). 545. The textural changes just described pass through various developmental stages, and thus in any given case one or another of them may be the most prominent. We may therefore dis- tinguish certain anatomically distinct forms of chronic parenchy- matous nephritis, depending on the stage of the process reached at the time the kidney is examined. In the first form the connective tissue is but slightly altered (being simply infiltrated) while the epithelium of the tubules and in part of the glomeruli is highly fatty. This form is best described as the inflamed fatty kidney, or the kidney of fatty parenchy- matous nephritis. The kidney is moderately swollen and soft, the cortex pale-grey and beset with numerous white opaque spots and streaks. The number and magnitude of these fatty patches depends on the degree of degeneration. They may be confined to the outer or to the inner zone of the cortex. The medulla is usually more or less reddened, often indeed cyanotic. If the cortical veins are full they show as red streaks, and the stellate veins show on the pale subcapsular surface as deep-red star-shaped blotches. In a certain sense the large mottled kidney forms an antithesis to the fatty kidney. It is swollen, often considerably, and its surface is mottled with grey and red. On section the cortex looks broadened, moist, soft, and streaked with grey and greyish-red; the medulla is hyperaemic. Corresponding to its external appearance we find the tissue of the kidney in a condition of inflammatory oedema, the intertubular septa being in many places infiltrated with small cells. The glomerular epithelium is here and there swollen and desquamated, and in many of the tubules the epithelial cells are likewise cloudy, swollen, and