22 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAR LXVI. change as secondary. In Germany Thoma and Ewald {Virch. Arch. vol. 71) minutely investigated the vascular changes in contracted kidney, but they too failed to keep distinct the various forms of the affection. Ziegler {Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxv) first discussed in detail the great importance of primary changes in the vessels in determining the contraction of the kidney, and showed that primary sclerosis gives rise to a special form of contraction, for which he accordingly suggested the term arteriosclerotic atrophy. Leyden has recently {Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. n, and Rosenstein, Trans, internat. med. Congress n London 1882) examined the subject very fully, and proposes to call the affection renal sclerosis. Ziegler objects to this term on the ground that sclerosis of an organ implies induration, and the absence of induration in the arteriosclerotic kidney is what essentially distinguishes it from the cirrhotic contracted kidney. See also Holsti {D. Arch, f. klin. Med. xxxviii 1885), and Gull {Amer. Journ. med. sci. 1886). The vascular change as we have seen begins usually in the arterioles. There is however evidence that the glomeruli may be the seat of primary sclerosis, the capillaries becoming obstructed by a hyaline thickening of their walls. It is worthy of note that arteriosclerotic contraction is very common among workers in lead, especially in the young ; the sclerotic change is most marked in the smallest vessels and in the glomeruli. It would thus appear that lead has a selective degenerative action on these parts of the vascular system. The affection is usually accompanied by symptoms of gout. See Ollivier {Archives ge'nerales de m4d. 1863), Danjoy {ibid. 1864), Traube {Allg. med. Centralzeitung 1861), Dickinson {Diseases of the kidney II London 1877), Hoffa {Ueb. Nephritis saturnina Freiburg 1883), Charcot and Gombault {Arch, de physiologic 1881), Wagner {Ziemssen's Handb. d. spec. Path. 3rd edition ix), Garrod {Gout and rheumatic gout 3rd edition London 1876). Arteriosclerotic contraction is very gradual in its progress. Albuminuria is slight or absent altogether. Cardiac hypertrophy may ensue as in other atrophic affections of the kidney. For cases see Lemcke {Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxv, with references), Schuchardt {Berl. klin. Woch. 41, 1882). 527. The renal vessels having no arterial anastomoses, when a renal arteriole is blocked by an embolus embolic infarction ensues. Immediately after the stoppage of the circulation through the region supplied by the embolised vessel there is no apparent change in the renal tissue. In a few hours however the starved tissue dies, and gradually assumes a turbid greyish or yellowish tint. Presently there is more or less extensive hyperaemia and haemorrhage and the pallor of the dead tissue disappears at least in part. Litten's investigations show that the haemorrhage takes place chiefly from the capillaries, and is in fact an extravasation from engorgement (Art. 30). The blood in the capillaries of the embolised region being derived solely from the neighbouring capillaries the pressure is insufficient to drive it through them into the larger veins ; stasis ensues, and soon the capillaries and venules are distended with blood, which at length escapes into the surrounding tissue. The extravasation takes place mainly from the intertubular capillaries, but blood-cells and plasma may escape from the glomeruli likewise and accumulate within the capsules and tubules. Cohnheim and Guillebeau have sought to make out that a certain amount of reflux takes place from the veins of the embolised region.