STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS. ART. 629.] 219 venous simises. Communication with the lymphatics of the neck and of the nerves takes place by means of processes of the pia mater (pial sheaths) which surround the vessels and nerves as they enter or leave. With the dural sinuses communication takes place by means of the pacchionian bodies, which are rounded excrescences of arachnoid and subarachnoid tissue penetrating into the dura, and separated only by a thin dural film from the venous blood in the sinuses. The cerebral blood-vessels before they enter the brain all pass through the subarachnoid space and the pia mater, and carry with them a pial sheath. They are thus even within the brain surrounded by lymph-spaces, which are known as adventitial lymph-sheaths (Virchow, Robin) and communicate freely with the pial spaces. The central nervous system is thus not only surrounded on all sides by lymph-spaces but also traversed in all directions by lymph-channels, and its blood-vessels all lie in lymph-sheaths. The arteries of the brain are divided into basal or ganglionic and cortical (Heubner, Duret). The former are terminal arteries, ramifying in the basal ganglia and the internal capsule; the latter anastomose freely within the pia mater. The choroid plexuses also carry vessels into the interior of the ventricles; they may be described as villous processes covered with polygonal epithelium and containing a multitude of capillary loops of large size. The vessels of the cord pass into the nerve-substance partly from the periphery, partly by way of the longitudinal fissures. Many authors (such as His, Roth, etc.) affirm that circumvascular and epicerebral lymph-spaces exist outside the adventitia of the vessels and beneath the pia mater, and that these spaces are traversed by fine trabecula emerging from the brain-substance and passing into the adventitia of the vessels. Ziegler, with Boll, Golgi, and others, makes out that these spaces, when they are met with at all, are due to artificial causes such as the hardening of the brain in solutions of chromic acid and so on. References on the membranes and vessels of the brain and cord :—His, Zeitschrift f. wissenschaft. Zool. xv (1864); Robin, Journ. de physiol. n (1859); Roth, Virch. Arch. vol. 46; Axel Key and G. Retzids, Studien in d. Anatomie d. Nervensystemes u. d. Bindegcwebes i and n Stockholm 1875-76 ; Schwalbe, Med. Centralb. 30, 1869, Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat. vi (1870), Lehrb. d. Neurol. 1881; S£e, Revue mensuelle n (1878); Riedel, Arch. f. mikrosk. Anat. xi (1875); Obersteiner, Wiener Sitzungsber. lxi (1870); Golgi, Rivista clinica Nov. 1871; Boll, Arch. f. Psych, iv (1873); Lowe, ibid, vn ; Heubner, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1872, Die luetische Erkrankung d. Hirnarterien Leipzig 1874 ; Duret, Recherches anatomiques sur la circulation de I'encephale, Arch, de physiol. 1874; Adamkiewicz, Die Blutgefiisse d. menschlichcn Riichen- markes, Wiener Sitzungsber. lxxxiv, lxxxv (1881-82), Trans, internat. med. Congress I London 1881; Mosso, Ueber d. Kreislanf d. Blutes im menschlichen Gehirn Leipzig 1881; Charcot, Logons sur les localisations Paris 1876, trans, by Hadden (New Syd. Soc.) London 1883; Klein and Noble Smith, Atlas of Histology London 1880; Ross, Brain ill (1880), Diseases of the nervous system London 1883. 629. The central nervous system is composed of tissue the normal performance of whose functions depends greatly on the normal circulation of healthy blood within it.