124 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXII. from the vessels the alveoli are at first more or less filled with it. Part of it passes directly into the lymphatics which communicate with the lumen of the alveoli. Another portion disintegrates within the alveoli, and at the same time white blood-cells migrate from the capillaries and take up the disintegrated matters, becoming thus transformed into corpuscle-carrying and pigment-granule cells. These lie at first within the alveoli and are sometimes met with in great numbers. Thence they may pass into the bronchi and are coughed up, but the greater number pass into the lymphatics and so reach the lymphatic glands, or remain lodged in the tissues of the lung, especially in the patches of lymphadenoid tissue. The detritus of the blood which passes directly into the lymphatics lodges in the same parts; the ultimate form which it takes being in all cases that of brown or even black pigment. When the engorgement and excessive pressure persist for a long time the walls of the pulmonary vessels become hypertrophied, and the connective tissue is also somewhat increased. According to Rindfleisch and others the muscular fibres of the bronchi and alveolar ducts are also hypertrophied. Eeferences :—Dittrich, Beitr. z. path. Anat. d. LungenkranJcheiten Erlan- gen 1850; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 1; Zenker, Beitr. z. norm. u. path. Anat. d,. Lungen Dresden 1862; Buhl, Virch. Arch. vol. 16; Kindfleisch, Path. Hist, ii London 1873; Hertz, Ziemssen's Cyclop, v; Orth, Virch. Arch. vol. 58 ; Eberth, ibid. vol. 72. 588. Oedema of the lung is a condition in which the alveoli and bronchioles, and often the bronchi also, are filled with serous liquid more or less mingled with air. The condition may extend over the whole lung, or only over a lobe or part of a lobe. The pulmonary tissue may be either anaemic or hyperaemic. Pulmonary oedema arises in various ways. It generally appears in articulo mortis as a result of the gradual failure of the heart. According to Cohnheim it occurs when the outflow through the pulmonary veins is opposed by an obstruction that the right ventricle cannot overcome. This is the case when from weakness or excessive aortic resistance the left ventricle fails to empty itself in systole. Cohnheim's explanation is based on experiment and no doubt applies to many cases of ante-mortem oedema, but not to all. Not infrequently the signs of previous engorgement are entirely absent, and the distribution of the oedema is so irregular that we cannot refer it to a condition (like engorgement) extending over the whole lung. In such cases we must assume that we have to do with some alteration of the vessel-walls that causes them to be abnormally permeable, and is referable to the disease from which the patient has suffered. The like explanation will apply to the oedema which occasionally results from the breathing of irrespirable gases. Another variety is the inflammatory oedema which generally accompanies certain inflammatory processes, such as croupous or suppurative inflammation. Lastly, multiple fat-embolism of the