168 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVII. lung this latter plays a considerable part. Thus lung-tissue that is inflamed or that is altered in a certain way by previous inflammation is more apt to become tuberculous than normal healthy tissue. Lastly, it appears certain that many persons are predisposed or rather pre- destined to tuberculosis because they are much more exposed to the chances of infection than others. This is especially the case with children who grow up in the company of tuberculous parents. An extremely important, but at present involved, question is—whether tuberculosis can be inherited, i.e. whether the tubercle-bacillus can be trans- mitted from the parent to the foetus in fecundation or during gestation. Zieglbr has pointed out in several of his writings that no anatomical facts are yet to hand in support of the affirmative supposition. There is on record no indubitable instance of intra-uterine foetal tuberculosis, and after birth the affection appears at the earliest in the third week, by which time it is quite possible for infection from without to have taken place. It must however be kept in mind that in some instances the disease had at this time made such progress that the beginning of it might with great probability be referred to the intra-uterine period (Demme and Lichtheim, Verhandl. d. med. Congresses in Wiesbaden 1883). Ziegler's view is—that congenital tuberculosis is possible but not yet certainly demonstrated, and that it must at any rate be rare. Since Koch's discovery a good many authorities have come over to this view. Actual transmission of tuberculosis to the foetus appears conceivable only when at the time of impregnation the male suffers from urogenital tuber- culosis, or when during gestation the female genital organs are tuberculous, or tubercle-bacilli gain access to the circulatory system. Future observation alone can determine whether this view is correct or not, and meanwhile we may explain the fact—that the children of tuberculous parents so readily perish from tuberculosis—by observing that they inherit some predisposition to the disease and by their constant intercourse with the parents are in a special way exposed to the risk of infection. Tuberculosis by inhalation was first induced in animals by Tappeiner, Lippl, and Schweninger (Naturforscherversammlung in Miinchen 1882, Virch. Arch. vols. 74, 82), afterwards by Weichselbaum (Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1882, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1883), Schottelius (Virch. Arch. vol. 73), and others. When animals are made to breathe air containing phthisical sputa pulverised by means of the spray-apj)aratus, small miliary bronchopneumonia patches much resembling tubercles are found in the lungs. Tappeiner took them for actual tubercles and compared them to the tubercles found in miliary tubercu- losis of the lung. This however is a mistake: they are multiple primary tuberculous bronchopneumonic patches of miliary size, caused by the inhala- tion of tubercle-bacilli (Ziegler, Sammlung klin. Vortrage 151). Veraguth worked at the subject in Ziegler's laboratory during 1881—82, and showed that in the bronchopneumonic patches great masses of bacilli were developed, that in course of time from these patches were formed larger caseous and even idcerating nodes, and that in goats the process might give rise to tuberculous disease of the lymphatics, lymphatic glands, and serous membranes, all of which contained bacilli. Fourteen days elapse from the time of inhalation before the first visible changes are detected. As the changes set in masses of bacilli are seen in the alveolar epithelial cells, which they presently cause to degenerate, while reactive inflammation is set up in the adjacent tissue. References:—Bayer, Etudes compar. de la phthisie pulmonaire 1842; Seegen, Der Diabetes mcllitus Berlin 1878; Bouchardat, De la glycosurie Paris 1878; Leyden, Ueb. diabet. Lungenphtlme, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. iv; Ruhle, Ziemssen's Cyclop, v; Jurgensen, ibid.; Ziegler, loc. cit.; Badm- garten, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. vi, Sammlung klin. Vortrage 218, Berl. klin. Woch. 1883; Collective Investigation Record i London 1883; Klebs, Art. Tuberculose, Etdenburg's Encyclopadie xm; Veraguth, Arch. f. exp. Path. xvii 1883; Koster, Sitzungsber, d. niederrhein. Gesellsch. Bonn Feb. 1876; Senise, Movimento med. chir. di Napoli 4, 1883; Johne, Geschichte d. Tuber-