THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. 256 This peculiar affection may thus be characterised as a simple disappearance of the ganglion-cells of the motor centres of the cord and medulla. When it extends over the greater part of the length of the cord it gives rise to a portion of the group of diseases spoken of as chronic atrophic spinal paralysis {poliomyelitis anterior chronica) and progressive muscular atrophy: when it involves the nuclei of the medulla it leads to some of the affections known collectively as chronic progressive bulbar paralysis and Duchenne's paralysis. Descending atrophy of the anterior horns is in general associated with degeneration in the pyramidal tract (Art. 647). When the atrophy begins in the lumbar cord this degeneration does not take place. A similar disappearance of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres takes place both in the basal ganglia and in the cerebral cortex. When extensive it leads to a very marked loss of bulk in the parts affected. This loss of bulk is due partly to the entire disappearance, partly to marked dwindling, of the nerve-elements. In the cortex it is sometimes uniformly and widely diffused, sometimes in isolated patches. The white matter like the grey is also liable to atrophy, which is either primary or secondary to atrophy of grey matter. When the bulk of a portion of the brain or cord is markedly diminished, the atrophic process extends to the white matter, and microscopic examination shows that some of the nerve-fibres in the latter have entirely disappeared while others have plainly undergone diminution of their thickness. In the disseminated or patchy form of atrophy the medullary white centre of the cerebrum often contains minute areas within which the tissue has a perforated or cribriform appearance; the nerve-fibres having disappeared a loose mesh work of neuroglia is all that remains. The adventitial lymph-spaces are in general dilated (Art. 637). Atrophy of the laminae of the cerebellum, when it is at all marked, is chiefly due to thinning of the cortical layers, though the medullary centre also suffers in a less degree. As the cells and nerve-fibres disappear the external (or molecular) layer (Fig. 259 a) of the cortex is reduced to a third or a fourth (at) of its original thickness. The cells of Purkinje (d) and their processes disappear entirely, and with them the slender intermediate layer (b). Lastly the granular layer (c), losing its nerve-cells and fibres, becomes reduced to a mere film (cj. Loss of volume alone is not a certain mark of atrophy of the brain. Thus in infants suffering from chronic diarrhoea the brain may shrink so rapidly that the cranial bones overlap one another, but this is due in great measure simply to abstraction of liquid from the brain and its membranes. Atrophy of the anterior horns of the cord can be certainly demonstrated only by examining a series of sections. The ganglion-cells are by no means uniformly distributed in different segments of the cord, and thus it may happen that a single section of a perfectly normal cord shows very few ganglion-cells, while neighbouring sections show them in abundance.