CHAPTER LXXIX. THE TRACHEA. 577. Malformations of the trachea are not common. In acephalous monsters it is sometimes absent, the larynx and the lungs being sometimes present, sometimes not. Occasionally we meet with cases of abnormally short trachea, and of atresia or narrowness of this or one of the main bronchi. As a result of imperfect separation of the air-passage from the alimentary canal we may have a persistent communication between the trachea and the oesophagus, usually a little above the bifurcation of the former. When the two ends of the communicating passage become closed, it is transformed into a mucous cyst lined with ciliated epithelium. Not infrequently some of the rings of the trachea are wanting; and in other cases they are abnormally coherent, or subdivided, or multiplied. The bifurcation may take place at an abnormally high level, or the first branch of the right bronchus may arise directly from the trachea. Lastly we may have persistent remnants of the branchial clefts opening into the trachea, giving rise to so-called cervical fistulae (Art. 8). These have recently acquired considerable interest inasmuch as Volkmann has shown that they may be the starting- point of carcinomatous growths. Acquired dilatations of the trachea are not very common; though we occasionally meet with cylindrical, fusiform, or sacculate dilatations due probably to expiratory pressure, when expiration is obstructed and the tracheal wall more yielding than usual. Sac- culate dilatations are commonly situated on the posterior aspect of the tube. Stenosis of the trachea is in general caused by compression from without; more rarely it is due to structural changes, or to growths and tumours of the tube itself. Goitre and other tumours of the neck, peritracheal abscesses, and aneurysms of the aorta may be the cause of compression: cicatrices and other hyperplastic formations may give rise to obstruction from within. Compression may be unilateral or bilateral. When it is very chronic it may induce atrophy of the cartilages (Rose) or lead