REGENERATION OF NERVES. 339 ART. 668.] bundles is lost; the new fibres are more uniformly spread through the connective tissue, and the usually fatty epineural envelope assumes a striated fibrous appearance. In this manner the re-formed and growing nerve enters the soft mass of granulations and cicatricial tissue that intervenes between the severed ends. When it reaches the peripheral end, some of whose fibres have meanwhile perished, certain of the new fibres enter the empty primitive sheaths (Banvier), but the greater number penetrate the epineurium (Vanlair) and peri- neurium and advance towards the peripheral end-organs. Others miss the peripheral end and run either alongside it or on a course of their own to the surface: many fibres too which leave the old track disappear and are lost in the tissues (Vanlair). In the peripheral half of the intercalated cicatrix the nerve-fibres begin to gather once more into bundles (Vanlair), and a perineurium forming round these, the whole thickness of the nerve by degrees assumes a nearly normal appearance. These changes require weeks or months to complete: according to Eichhorst the fibres of the central end reach the cicatrix about the end of the first month, and in some three months the reunion is established. It appears from the foregoing that the peripheral end does not itself regenerate, but is provided with nerve-fibres from the central end. Vanlair describes the process as neurotisation. It probably takes place in all cases of regeneration after severance, both when the nerve is actually cut through and when only the nerve-fibres and not the fibrous structures are interrupted. The difference is that in the former case the new fibres must grow through a certain amount of cicatricial tissue, while in the latter there is little or no granulation, and the axis-cylinders as they lengthen can directly enter the old fibres. Some authorities (Gluck, Wolberg, Langenfeldt) state definitely that under favourable conditions very rapid union of the severed ends is pos- sible, the function of the nerve being recovered in a very few days. Even when the peripheral is so remote from the central end that direct union by nerve-tissue is out of the question, some attempt is still made at regeneration. The central end grows out (Fig. 286), but the axis-cylinders do not reach the peripheral end, and lose themselves in the cicatrix. - The so-called amputational neuromata (Art. 154) are of this nature; they are club-shaped enlargements of the severed nerve-ends occasionally met with in stumps which have healed after amputation. As they contain new nerve-fibres as well as connective tissue they are doubtless due to an abortive attempt at regeneration in the nerve-stumps: when they include sensory fibres which are com- pressed or irritated by the cicatrix they are the source of very con- siderable pain. Similar traumatic neuromata now and then occur in the course of nerves which have been injured but not severed. 22—2