11 ART. 520.] CLASSIFICATION OF RENAL DISORDERS. The blood which reaches the kidney enters it by the branches of the renal artery at the boundary zone between the cortex and the medulla. The greater part of it passes thence through the interlobular arteries (a) which run in a zigzag course through the labyrinth towards the outer surface of the organ, and then by the vasa afferentia (b) to the glomeruli (c). Only a small part of the blood passes at once into the medullary substance, and even this usually traverses a glomerulus. There are however certain very minute arterial twigs which pass directly into the medulla. Within the glomerulus (c) the vas afferens breaks up into a multitude of anastomosing capillary loops, which presently reunite into a single vessel (d), the vas efferens. This leaves the glomerulus side by side with the afferent vessel, passes into the medullary ray, and there once more breaks up into a system of capillaries (e). This system (sometimes called the 'portal' system of the kidney) is continuous with the capillary system of the labyrinth (f), and this again delivers its blood into venules, which beginning beneath the capsule as stellate veins (g) pass through the labyrinth as interlobular veins (/t) to the inner border of the cortex. The course of a urinary tubule commences at the hollow sphere or capsule of Bowman which surrounds the glomerulus. At the pole opposite that through which the vessels enter, the cavity of the capsule opens by a somewhat narrow orifice into the lumen of the urinary tubule, which passes through the labyrinth as a com- paratively wide convoluted tubule lined with a thick epithelial layer. The tubule then passes into the nearest medullary ray and descends with it in a straight course for a certain distance, then bending suddenly it turns back towards the cortex again. The descending limb of the Henle's loop thus formed is very slender and narrow, but the ascending limb widens out again, and at length enters a second wide convoluted tube (the intercalary tube) which lies in the cortical layer. The intercalary tube passes into a short and narrow junctional tube, and this uniting with others gives rise to the collecting tubes. These again unite together into the wider excretory tubes, which passing down through the medulla open at the papillae into the pelvis or infundibulum of the kidney. The glomeruli furnish chiefly the water of the urine. The convoluted tubules of the cortex secrete the solid constituents, namely the inorganic salts, urea, uric acid, hippuric acid, kreati- nine, xanthine, sarkine, ammonia, colouring-matters, indican, oxalic acid, etc. Some of these substances (such as urea) are contained in the blood, others are elaborated in the kidney. It would appear that the epithelium of the tubules separates these substances from the blood and in an altered or unaltered form gives them up to the water flowing through the tubules from the glomeruli. A certain amount of osmotic diffusion also takes place