CHAPTER XCV. INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. Serous inflammations. 652. Acute inflammatory exudations having a serous character take place into the substance of the brain and cord, into the membranous envelopes, and into the ventricles; and they give rise to grave and even fatal disturbance of the nervous functions. Acute serous leptomeningitis is an affection in which a sudden congestive hyperaemia is followed by serous effusion into the subarachnoid and pia mater, and into the cerebral ventricles. The quantity of liquid found in the membranes at the time of death varies somewhat in different cases, but it is seldom great. The amount of blood in the congested vessels is also by no means constant. The ventricles are more or less dilated by the effusion (inflammatory internal hydrocephalus); sometimes so greatly that the convolutions are visibly depressed and flattened by pressure against the skull, while the cerebrospinal liquid is to some extent forced out of the subarachnoid spaces. The choroid plexuses are usually hyperaemic: the liquid in the ventricles and subarachnoid spaces is clear or slightly opalescent, and often contains minute flakes of fibrin. It is richer in albumen than the normal cerebro- spinal liquid (Huguenin) and has floating in it a few pus-cor- puscles. A few extravasated leucocytes may be seen in the neighbourhood of some of the cortical vessels. The disorder is commonest in infancy or early childhood, rare in adult life: it not infrequently accompanies the early stages of infective diseases such as measles or scarlatina. Very probably the oedema of the brain and meninges which sometimes super- venes in nephritis is in part at least of inflammatory origin. Perhaps too some of the cases in children are induced by the virus of epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis (Art. 653): frequently however no cause can be certainly assigned, though scrofula, rickets, and syphilis are believed to be predisposing conditions. If the inflammatory oedema is not fatal it often disappears speedily, though sometimes it issues in a chronic inflammatory