CHAPTER LXXXII. DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION IN THE LUNG. 586. Congestive hyperaemia may be due to diminution of the normal resistances to the arterial current within the lung, and may be induced by direct stimuli reaching the lung through the respired air, as when irritating or irrespirable gases are breathed or when the air is excessively hot or excessively cold. It is also the first step to inflammation. Partial or collateral congestion of one part of the lung sometimes results from obstruction of an important arterial branch in another part. Congestion of the lung, when it is not collateral or due to local textural or vascular change (as in inflammation), extends uniformly over the whole organ. It is usually transient, and is very seldom fatal. In the fatal form of congestion called vascular pulmonary apoplexy, the lung appears swollen and abnormally firm, of a uniform dark-red colour on section, and containing but little air; the capillaries are everywhere distended with blood and encroach on the alveolar cavities. There are usually some scattered extra- vasations of blood. Engorgement or passive hyperaemia results from hindrance or obstruction to the outflow of blood through the pulmonary veins, or from causes tending to weaken the propelling forces. The latter appear when the activity of the right heart is impaired, when the pulmonary artery or its branches are obstructed, or when the respiration is interfered with. Thus when (as in suffocation) the inspiratory muscles dilate the thorax while air is prevented from entering the lungs, blood is as it were pumped from the extra- thoracic vessels into the intra-thoracic, and the blood collects and stagnates as it does under a cupping-glass. Obstruction to the outflow of blood from the lung is most frequently caused by valvular lesions of the left heart; but the same effect is also indirectly produced by obstructive increase of pressure within the aorta which the heart is at length unable to overcome, and by relaxation or degeneration of the wall of the left ventricle. Failure of the propulsive power of the heart causes engorge-