324 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCVIII. past haemorrhage: this peculiarity has led to the affection being described as haemorrhagic pachymeningitis. The extravasa- tions are usually small, but now and then they are so extensive that they separate the false membrane from the dura, and form blood-cysts or haematomata, which may cause grave compression of the brain. If the cyst gives way blood will of course escape into the subdural spaces. Once the inflammation has begun it seldom attains to complete resolution and recovery. The extravasated matters are by degrees re-absorbed, but if they are at all abundant the process is very slow and imperfect, and their continued presence keeps up an irritation that induces renewed inflammation. New exudations and new membranes are thus produced, and at length a dense scar- like tissue results, which contains masses of pigment, fibrinous residues, and calcareous matters. Sometimes after resorption of a haemorrhagic extravasation a localised collection of liquid appears between the dura and the cicatrised membrane: this has been called hygroma of the dura mater, or partial pachymeningitic hydrocephalus. In older denser and more fibrous membranes some of the vessels are gradually occluded by contraction, but other parts remain highly vascular, and fresh haemorrhages keep up the chronic inflammation. Pachymeningitic membranes do not usually adhere to the arachnoid; but when this happens the new-formed vessels pass down into the internal meninges. There is also an external chronic pachymeningitis in which the changes are chiefly limited to the cranial surface of the dura mater: they consist of thickening of the membrane and absorption or hyperplasia of the bone. Moreover, the dura mater is frequently inflamed by extension of mischief from contiguous parts. Thus suppuration due to an infected wound of the skull may involve the dura mater (Art. 654); and otitis media or inflammation of the petrous bone or of the vertebrae or the interdural tissue frequently extends to this membrane. When suppuration takes place the dura has a discoloured yellowish-white or greyish-yellow appearance: if the suppuration is preceded by haemorrhage the tint may be greyish-green or brown. Tuberculosis arises as a concomitant of embolic tuberculous leptomeningitis or of tuberculous bone-disease. The inner surface of the dura is beset with disseminated grey tubercles, while in more advanced stages pachymeningitic membranes containing tubercles, or large granulomatous vegetations, or caseous foci are found. The latter are commonest in connexion with bone-disease, and then frequently affect both surfaces of the membrane. In syphilis cellular infiltrations and granulations are formed in the dura mater, and lead in time to dense scar-like thickenings, which frequently enclose caseous masses. If the process goes on extensive adhesions are set up with the arachnoid and pia mater.