THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCI. 218 Erb, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia xiii ; Hill, Plan of the central nervous system Cambridge 1885. 628. The central nervous system is enclosed in three fibrous envelopes or meninges—the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the pia mater. The dura mater is a tough vascular membrane traversed by numerous lymphatics. In the cranium it is closely adherent to the bones of the skull: in the vertebral canal it splits into two laminae, the exterior forming the periosteum of the bony walls, the interior loosely surrounding the cord. It gives off a fibrous dural sheath to each of the nerves. The arachnoid is a delicate non-vascular membrane everywhere closely applied to the dura mater, with only a capillary space intervening (the subdural space). This interstice is a lymph-space, which communicates with the adjacent lymphatics of the neck, nose, eye, and dura mater, and also with the venous sinuses in the latter (by means of the arachnoidal villi or pacchionian bodies): it is continuous with the subdural spaces within the dural sheaths of the nerves (Key and Retzius), and is everywhere clothed with endothelium. The pia mater is a delicate highly vascular membrane which closely invests the brain and spinal cord. Between the pia mater and the arachnoid lies the subarachnoid space, whose dimensions vary greatly with the varying relations of the two membranes. It is everywhere traversed by delicate fibrous trabeculae or membranous expansions covered with endothelium (the subarach- noid tissue), and contains a liquid known as the cerebrospinal or subarachnoid fluid. The space is narrow over the gyri and wider over the sulci. It is wider still in the spine, and at certain places within the skull where it expands into regular sinuses or cisterns. Such for example occur between the dorsal surface of the medulla and the posterior part of the cerebellum, in the interpeduncular space (between the crura cerebri), in front of the optic chiasma, between the under surface of the cerebellar hemispheres and the lateral portions of the medulla, on both sides of the transverse fissure, and at the lower ends of the sylvian fissures. The pia mater and subarachnoid tissue send processes into the cleft between the cerebellum and medulla, and into that between the upper surface of the cerebellum and corpora quadrigemina and the under surface of the cerebrum: these processes are continued into the interior of the adjoining ventricles and form the telae choroideae and choroid plexuses. Here also are the chief chan- nels of commuuication between the subarachnoid cisterns and the cavities of the fourth (foramen of Magendie) and third ventricles. The subarachnoid spaces thus communicate not only with each other but also with the cerebral ventricles. The spaces also communicate with the lymphatics of the head, with the lymph- spaces of the nerves as they take their exit, and with the dural