THE CENTltAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCVII. 316 the nerve-fibres, though it is sometimes surprising how long both elements persist. When the glioma presses on the pia mater the connective- tissue cells of the latter undergo subdivision and multiplication, and a new-formation of fibrous tissue usually takes place. The gliomatous growth may ultimately extend into the meshes of the fibrous tissue. In ischaemic and haemorrhagic softening of the growth the cellular elements perish, partly by necrosis and partly by fatty degeneration. Sometimes peculiar protoplasmic lumps, with or without nuclei, are produced, apparently by coalescence of some of the cells. Stratified corpora amylacea also occur in the tumour-tissue. Sometimes a mucous liquid forms abundantly in the interstices of a glioma and give it the appearance of loose mucous tissue: such tumours are described as gliomyxomata. Still more frequently the connective-tissue cells undergo so marked a proliferation that the tumour becomes a gliosarcoma, the neuroglia-cells increase greatly in number and size, and ultimately lose their typical characteristics. In other cases the vascular adventitia becomes abnormally proliferous, and the product of its overgrowth is at length so abundant that the gliomatous structure is overshadowed. Gliosarcoma is chiefly characterised by the multiform character of its cells; but the overgrowth just alluded to results in a spindle- celled neoplasm, the cells being arranged along the course of the blood-vessels: it is therefore described as angiosarcoma. Sar- comatous transformation in a cerebral glioma gives the tumour a marrowy or 'encephaloid' consistency, and marks it off more sharply from the surrounding brain-substance. Sarcoma also occurs as an independent growth, unattended at first by any multiplication of neuroglia-cells. Spindle-celled and multiform-celled varieties are the commonest, and they are in general soft and marrowy. They are commonly rounded, sharply defined, of all sizes, and either single or multiple. So far as we at present know they develope from the pial sheaths of the vessels and in part from the neuroglia. Haemorrhage and softening of the tumour are frequent. If it lies close beneath the pia mater it often invades that membrane. The surrounding brain-substance is gene- rally softened, the meninges inflamed, and the ventricles dilated. Small angiomata are not uncommon in the brain, though they do not form regular tumours but only small reddish foci, not unlike recent patches of inflammation. They are probably congenital (Virchow), and are of the same nature as vascular naevi. There is simply telangiectasis of the blood-vessels, not cavernous meta- morphosis of the tissue (Art. 149). Ganguillet recently described as cylindroma a gelatinous-looking angioma of the lower end of the spinal-cord: it was composed of vessels whose adventitia had become hyaline, and was beset with bulging hyaline outgrowths (Art. 163, Fig. 57).