AKT. 565.] MORBID CHANGES IN THE SUPRARENALE 87 The tumour oftenest observed in the suprarenals is that described by Virchow as struma lipomatosa suprarenalis: it is a nodular growth consisting essentially of fatty glandular tissue. Carcinoma and sarcoma also occur, the latter often reaching a very large size. Suprarenal cysts have also been described by various observers. They are formed either by the softening of haemorrhagic patches, or by the dilatation of the cortical acini (Klebs). These true cysts must not be confounded with the cavities very frequently observed in the glands, which are due to post-mortem softening of the inner layers of the cortex. The Echinococcus is the only animal parasite met with in the suprarenals. Disease of the suprarenals, especially the caseous fibroid degeneration, is often accompanied by bronzing of the skin (cutis aenea) and buccal mucous membrane, and by a profound and fatal cachexia. The pigmentation is sometimes uniform and diffuse, sometimes in patches and streaks. The bronzing and the cachexia are supposed to depend on the suprarenal lesion ; the affection being referred to as melasma suprarenale or Addison's disease. In many cases changes in the abdominal sympathetic nerves and ganglia have been observed. No satisfactory explanation of the relation of the several phenomena has yet been given. References :—-Addison, On the constitutional and local effects of disease of the suprarenal capsules London 1855, reprint (New Syd. Soc.) 1868 ; Hecker, Monatsschr. f. Geburtskunde xxxnr (1869); Virchow, Krankh. Oeschwiilste II; Klebs, Path. Anat. I; Averbeck, Die Addison'sche Krankheit Erlangen 1869; Wolf, Berl. klin. Woch. 1869 ; Greexhow, Croonian lectures London 1875, Trans. Path. Soc. (many papers), Trans, inter, med. congress II London 1881 ; Burger, Die Nebenniere u. d. Morbus Addisonii Berlin 1883 ; Chiari, Wien. med. Presse xxi (1880); Fleischer and Penzoldt, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxvi (1880); Huber, ibid, iv; Goodhart, Atlas of Pathology (New Syd. Soc.) London 1879, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxm 1882 ; Da Costa and Longstreth, Amer. Joum. med. sciences July 1880; Saundbt, Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1883 ; Barlow and Goupland, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxvi 1885. Marchand (Virch. Arch. vol. 92) has recently pointed out that accessory suprarenals are not uncommonly to be found in the broad ligament near the ovary. On suprarenal tissue in and about the kidney see Art. 556.