[CHAP. XCV. THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 298 such as the centrum ovale or the columns of grey matter, close examination may reveal collections of leucocytes in the adventitial sheaths of the vessels. These are sometimes very abundant, and can hardly be regarded as mere accumulations from stasis in the lymphatics, but are almost certainly evidence of inflammation. The occasional combination of multiple sclerosis (like that of recent encephalitis and myelitis) with meningoencephalitis is of interest as showing that the process is one which in some instances at least is not limited to the cortex, but affects the whole central nervous system. As the disease becomes more advanced, the evidences of inflammation become more numerous, a result probably of the continuous action of the same exciting causes as first in- duced it. These observations hold of a number of the cases: in others the inflammatory nature of the lesion is apparent from the commencement. Some acute cases are indeed described in which post mortem .the hyperaemia and saturation of the brain with liquid effusion were unmistakeable. Chronic leptomeningitis is somewhat frequently associated with exudative pachymeningitis (Art. 664). The apparent prominence of the neurogliar meshwork with its stellate cells in the atrophied portions of the cortex is at first due simply to the disappearance of the nerve-elements. Later on an actual multiplication and hyperplasia of the neuroglia-cells may take place, as in other atrophies of nerve-tissue. The occasional combination of meningoencephalitis with dege- neration and sclerosis of the posterior columns of the cord would indicate that the latter lesion is secondary, resembling in origin those changes we have already described. The spinal pia mater when it is affected at all is apt to be most thickened over the posterior half of the cord, and this has probably something to do with the locality of the sclerosis. The degeneration of the pyramidal tracts which is sometimes met with in the disease is perhaps dependent on the degeneration of the motor centres in the cortex (Flechsig), though this is questioned by Westphal (Art. 647). Chronic leptomeningitis of the cord alone, apart from the secondary forms dependent on inflammation of the dura mater, vertebrae, or cord-substance, is most commonly a termination of an acute attack. Most writers state that it may also be due to catching cold, and it sometimes follows mechanical injury. It is marked by the presence in the soft membranes of opacities, thickenings, and adhesions to the dura mater, and at times by increase and turbidity of the subarachnoid liquid. Marginal sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, and degenerations of some of the columns are occasionally present in the same case.