THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCVIII. 326 Fibroma is on the whole rare, but it may occur in any part of the dura mater, forming rounded tumours ; lipoma is very rare. Enchondroma is not infrequently met with in the form of small gelatinous nodules about the back of the sella turcica and basilar portion of the occipital bone; the tumour originates in residual unossified fragments of the cartilaginous synchondrosis between this bone and the sphenoid. Osteoma occurs chiefly in the cerebral dura mater, and most frequently about the falx cerebri. The growth appears as a plate of bone of irregular form with spinous and ridge-like processes. Of secondary or metastatic growths in the dura mater carcinoma is the most usual. Keferences on pachymeningitis :—Virchow, Wurzburg. Verhandl. 1856 ; Schubebg, Virch. Arch. vol. 16 ; Kremiansky, ibid. vol. 42 ; Weber, Arch. d. Heilk. i 1860 (haematonia); Lancereaux, Arch, ge'nirales de me'd. 1862—63, TraiU d'anat. path n; Wilks, Med. Times and Gaz. 1, 1868; Rindfleisch, Path. Hist, n London 1873; Sperling, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 29, 1871; Paulus, Yerlcalkung und Verknocherung d. Hamatomes d. Dura Mater Erlangen 1875 ; Hugdenin, Ziemssen's Cyclop, xn. On tumours of the dura mater:—Rokitansky, Lehrb. d. path. Anat. n ; Robin, Recherches anat. sur Vepitlie'liome des sereuses, Journ. de Vanat. 1869 ; Lebert, Virch. Arch. vol. 3 ; Arnold, ibid. vol. 52 ; Rustizky, ibid. vol. 52 ; Bizzozero and Bozzolo, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1874; Schuppel, Arch. d. Heilk. x (1869) ; Virchow, Die Entwickelung d. Schddelgrundes 1857 (ecchon- drosis of the basi-occipital) ; Luschka, Virch. Arch. vol. 11 (ditto); Zenker, ibid. vol. 12 (ditto); Lancereaux, TraiU d'anat. path. n. 665. The hypophysis cerebri or pituitary body is seated in the sella turcica, and is composed of two lobes: the anterior consists of a fibrous stroma enclosing numerous round and oval follicles filled with epithelial cells, the posterior of vascular con- nective tissue containing cell-like clusters of fat-granules. At the junction of the two lobes the tissue is very vascular, and contains cavities lined with ciliated columnar epithelium (Weichselbaum). Cystic degeneration and hyperplastic overgrowth of the anterior lobe are not uncommon, the cysts usually containing colloid masses. This transformation is called adenoma of the pituitary body (Wei- gert), and the growth sometimes reaches the size of a hen's egg. It of course protrudes more or less from the sella turcica, presses on the adjoining brain-substance, or into the ventricles (Zenker), and sometimes leads to atrophy of the underlying bone. According to "Weichselbaum the ciliated cavities are very apt to undergo cystic change, the cysts containing homogeneous or granular matter secreted by the epithelium. After adenoma the commonest groAvths are carcinoma and sarcoma (Klebs), which also take the form of nodose swellings. Weichselbaum has described a pair of small lipomata in the posterior lobe, and Weigert a teratoma. The pituitary body may be inflamed in connexion with disease