85 ART. 564.] MORBID CHANGES IN THE URETHRA. Varices, resembling rectal haemorrhoids, are sometimes formed at the site last-named in consequence of long-continued inflammatory hyperaemia. The most common tumours affecting the female urethra are sarcoma, myxoma, fibroma, and carcinoma. Fibroma gives rise to nodes and nodules, or to vascular papillomatous growths. In males cancer of the prostate or of the glans penis frequently attacks the urethra. Small cysts of retention are occasionally formed in the mucous glands of the female urethra. Stricture of the urethra is proximately due to inflammatory swelling of the mucous membrane, to nodular or diffuse unilateral or annular fibrous hyperplasia, to cicatrices, to valvular folds of membrane, or to polypous growths. Gonorrhoeal inflammation and traumatic injury are the most common exciting causes. Inflammatory strictures are oftenest seated in the membranous and in the contiguous spongy part of the canal. In old men the enlarged prostate frequently obstructs and even occludes the urethra. In infants and young children the colliculus seminalis is sometimes so excessively developed as to interfere with micturi- tion. Traumatic rupture of the urethra arises in various ways; a very common cause is careless catheterization by which 'false passages' are produced. They are usually situate at the deeper end of the canal, and either end blindly or lead into the urethra again or into the bladder. Such ruptures give rise to urinary infiltration and abscess, or to fistulae surrounded by dense fibrous tissue and partially lined with epithelium. References on the micrococcus of gonorrhoea (gonococcus):—Neisser, Cent, f. med. Wiss. 28, 1879, Deut. med. Woch. 20, 1882; Bokai, Pest, med.-chir. Presse 1880; Cheyne, Brit. Med. Journ. 2, 1880; Haab, Corresp. f. Schweizer Aerzte 1881, Der Mikrokokkus d. Blenorrh. neonatorum (Horner's Festschrift 1881); Krause, Cent. f. prakt. Augenheilk. 1882 ; Martin, Recherches sui- tes inflam. mdtast. suppur. a la suite de la gonorrhe'e Geneva 1882 ; Bockhart, Vierteljahrsschr. f. Derm. u. Syph. 1883; Sternberg, Philad. Med. News. 1883—84; Welander, Oaz. med. de Paris 1884: Lomer, Deut. med. Woch. 1886.