THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. 260 Saemisch's Handb. v ; Gudden, Arch. f. Ophthalm. 1879 ; Haab, Beitrdge z. Ophthalm., Festschrift fiir Horner Wiesbaden 1881 ; Kellermann, Beilage z. Iain. Monatsbl. 1879 ; Purtscher, Graefe's Arch. f. Ophthalm. xxvi (1880); Samuelsohn, Berl. klin. Woch. 1880; Baumgarten, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1878; Marchand, Graefe's Arch, xxvm; Mauthner, Gehirn und Auge Wiesbaden 1881; Dreschfeld, Brain iv (1882). On hemianopsia and destruction of the cortical visual centre see Art. 625. Dickinson {Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, in 1868), Dreschfeld {ibid. xiv 1880), Vulpian {Arch, de physiol. 1868), Leyden {Klinik d. Ruckenmarkskr. n), De\j£rine and Mayer {Gaz. med. de Paris 1878), and others have described cases of atrophy of the motor and sensory centres and tracts in the cord after amputations of the limbs. Objections may be taken to some of their statements, but it would appear that the posterior roots, posterior horns, and posterior columns may occasionally atrophy: the ganglion-cells and nerve- fibres do not disappear outright but become abnormally small and thin. It is questionable whether in persons who in adult life have lost a limb the corresponding centres in the cortex ever undergo atrophy. Sander {Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1875), Luys {Gaz. des h6p. 1876), Bourdon {Recherches clin. sur les centres mot. des membres Paris 1877, Bull, de Vacad. de me'd. xn 1883), and others have described such cortical atrophies, but it must be remembered that the width of the convolutions varies greatly even in persons otherwise normal. Charcot, Ferrier, and others have failed to find unmistakeable instances. David a {Virch. Arch. vol. 88) and Edinger {ibid. vol. 89) have found that when limbs are congenitally absent there is atrophy of the spinal nerve-roots, the corresponding grey matter, and the lateral columns of the cord, and in some cases (Edinger, Gowers) even of the corresponding cortical centres. Vulpian {Maladies du syst. nerv. Paris 1879), De\t*drine {Gaz. me'd. de Paris 1879), Monakow {Arch. f. Psych, x 1880), Popow {Virch. Arch. vol. 93), and others state that in paralysis from lead-poisoning there is degeneration not only of the muscles and peripheral nerves but also of the ganglion-cells of the cord and brain. It does not appear certain that lead gives rise to any primary atrophy of the central nervous system, though apparently there is no doubt that in lead-poisoning the brain may contain a large proportion of the metal, and that the affection may be accompanied by grave and chronic mental disorder. For references see Boss, Diseases of the nervous system ii London 1883, and Bobinson, Brain vm 1885. 642. Ischaemic and haemorrhagic softening. The vessels of the brain and cord are peculiarly liable to morbid changes. Sclerosis and atheroma are more common in them than in those of almost any other organ, while the small arteries and capillaries of the central nervous system and its membranes might almost be called the favourite seat of hyaline degeneration. Fatty and cal- careous change are exceedingly common, the latter being sometimes so extensive and so great that on section the vessels stand out from the brain-substance as little rigid tubes. Moreover corpuscular matters passing from the heart into the arterial system, and atheromatous detritus or fibrinous coagula from the ascending aorta, are very readily swept through the cervical into the cerebral arteries. The consequence is that it is very common for the arteries of the brain or cord to be suddenly or gradually occluded, the accident being followed by grave disturbance of the circulation and nutri- tion of the corresponding regions.