ART. 590.] DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION IN THE LUNG. 127 brown pigmentation. Some of the cells containing disintegrated blood are removed with the sputum. During the stage at which the lymphatics and the alveoli contain a large amount of disinte- grated blood the pulmonary tissue has a dirty orange or rusty tint. In more copious haemorrhage, such as follows the rupture of an artery, blood passes into the bronchi and is coughed up (haemo- ptysis or haemoptoe). Some of the blood may be aspirated from the bronchi into neighbouring branches and into their alveoli. In this way haemorrhagic patches exactly resembling primary haemo- rrhages are formed ; usually however their number and distribution, and the circumstances in which they occur, enable us to discern their nature. The firm haemorrhagic infarct becomes rapidly decolorised, assuming a reddish-brown or rusty tint. Then a reactive inflam- matory immigration of leucocytes sets in from the vessels of the contiguous parts, and accelerates the re-absorption of the blood. In the course of time such infarcts often disappear entirely, leaving no permanent structural change behind. In other cases the affected region is indicated by a more or less marked but seldom very definite condensation of the pulmonary tissue, with some cicatricial contraction; the pleural surface of the region is slightly drawn in, and shows a certain amount of fibroid thickening with white radiating bands extending from it. The condensed tissue is sometimes brown or slate-coloured, sometimes undistinguishable in colour from the surrounding tissue. The condensation is due partly to collapse of the infiltrated alveoli, partly to new-formation of fibrous tissue in the alveolar septa by which they are thickened and bound together into a compacter mass. The embolus is meanwhile absorbed in like manner, its place being indicated by slight corrugations of the wall or filaments traversing the lumen of the artery. When the infarct is large or the re-absorption of the extravasated blood and the re-establishment of the circulation delayed, part of the infiltrated tissue may perish and break down into an inodorous brownish-red pulp: this either makes its way into a bronchus and is so removed, or is re-absorbed. The loss of substance is repaired by the development of cicatricial tissue, provided no septic change is set up within the cavity. In rare instances the re-absorption of blood and disintegrated lung-tissue is incomplete, and the detritus remaining passive for a time becomes thickened and caseous, and at length calcified, the whole being enclosed in a capsule of new-formed fibrous tissue. When the embolus causing the infarction contains at the same time infective matters capable of setting up decomposition or suppuration, or when these reach the injured tissue with the inspired air, we may have gangrene or suppuration of the lung (Art. 605).