AKT. 639.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. 251 translucent fibrils and nucleated cells, enclosing particles of detritus and liquid (Fig. 253 Fig. 256 6). Some of the fibrils are connected with the neuroglia-cells, forming processes as it were ; others seem to have no such connexion (Fig. 253). Fig. 256. Ascending degeneration of the coed (advanced). (Section taken from a cord severely compressed eighteen months before: pre- pared as in Fig. 252: x 250) a section across nerve-fibres b hyperplastic neuroglia c nuclei of neuroglia-cells d fat-granule cells (fat dissolved out) Fig. 255. Ascending degeneration oe the cord (recent). (Section taken from a cord ivhich had been severely compressed ten iveeks before: hardened in Miiller's fluid, stained with haematoxylin and carmine, and mounted in Canada balsam: x 250) A normal white matter B degenerate white matter a normal nerve-fibres b neuroglia c neuroglia-cells d fat-granule cells (fat dissolved out) Frequently the walls of the blood-vessels, and especially the adventitial tissue, take part in the hyperplastic process. The vessels then look as if beset and studded with proliferous cells, and the adventitia is thicker and more densely fibrous than usual (Fig. 254 c,). So long as a degenerating patch contains detritus of nerve- tissue it appears white and opaque and is of soft consistence. If the disintegration is extreme it may be almost diffluent on section. After absorption of the products of disintegration the tissue becomes grey and translucent. When hyperplasia of the neuroglia ensues a grey gelatinous patch is formed; such patches are occasionally described as instances of grey degeneration. When the new-formed fibrils are scanty and their meshes wide and filled with liquid, the patch is soft; on section it allows the liquid to escape and retracts below the general surface. If the fibrils are abundant and the resulting felted mass close-meshed, the patch is firm and dense. These two varieties correspond to soft or