THE LARYNX. ART. 573.] 99 The laryngitis of small-pox is characterised by the appearance on the reddened mucous membrane of minute whitish spots or small lentil-like nodules. According to Eppinger the former are due to cloudy swelling and granular degeneration, the latter to cellular infiltration, of the epithelium. Sometimes a branny coat- ing of dead epithelium and pus-corpuscles, or coherent croupous membranes, cover the affected parts. In all of these micrococci can he found (Eppinger), and are probably the exciting cause of the local affection. Epithelial haemorrhages make their appearance in cases of haemorrhagic small-pox; and in the later stages small abscesses may form in the connective tissue. Larger perichondritic abscesses and necrosis of cartilage are however comparatively rare. Scarlatina gives rise to catarrhal laryngitis, seldom to the croupous or diphtheritic forms: and the like is true of measles and typhus. References :—Louis, La fihvre typho'ide Paris 1841; Trousseau, Clinical Medicine n (New Syd. Soc.) London 1869; Eppinger, loc. cit. ; Tobold, Laryngoscopie Berlin 1874; Heinze, Die Kehlkopfsschivindsucht Leipzig 1879; Jopproy, Arch, dephysiol. 1880; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist, n London 1884 ; Murchison, Continued fevers London 1884; Kuhle, Sammlung klin. Vortrdge 6; Graves, Clinical Lectures (New Syd. Soc.) London 1884—85. Erysipelas may extend from the face and mouth to the pharynx and larynx, and give rise to oedematous and phlegmonous inflammation (Cornil, Arch, ge'ne'rales xix 1862; Morell Mackenzie, op. cit.; Massei, D. primdre Erysipel d. Kehlkopfes Berlin 1886). 573. Tuberculous laryngitis is a very common complication of tuberculous disease of the lung (laryngeal phthisis), though it also occurs independently. In the former case the specific infection is doubtless conveyed by the sputum; in other cases the virus reaches the mucous membrane by way of the blood or lymph. The process begins with the development of small subepithelial cellular infiltrations, projecting somewhat above the surface as greyish nodules. These either caseate rapidly and breaking through the epithelium give rise to minute ulcerations, or extend beneath the surface in the form of a diffuse granulomatous infiltra- tion containing typical tubercles and giving rise to irregular protu- berances of the mucous membrane. Sooner or later caseation and disintegration set in, and ulcers are formed whose floor and margins are infiltrated or even caseous. Secondary changes presently appear in the form of disseminated patches of inflammatory infiltration in the mucosa, submucosa, or perichondrium, sometimes in the mucous glands or more rarely between the laryngeal muscles. These patches may also coalesce into larger masses of granulomatous tissue containing tubercles simple or caseous. This is most apt to happen about the perichondrium of the various cartilages. Large tuberculous granulations are very commonly met with on the under surface and edges of the epiglottis, or on the posterior and anterior walls of the larynx. In the vocal cords on the other hand disintegration usually sets in before granulations of any size 7-2