45 ART. 539.] HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. the dropsy disappears, and the case presents the features of renal cirrhosis. The third form is renal cirrhosis or indurative nephritis. It is characterised by the following features:—increased flow of pale slightly albuminous urine of low specific gravity; sediment containing few formed elements, pale hyaline casts, white blood- cells, and occasionally a few red blood-cells; anasarca absent; the heart hypertrophied; the fundus of the eye affected by a special form of neuro-retinitis. The onset is usually very gradual, and the first symptoms of the malady are disorders of digestion or of vision, palpitation, cardiac distress, etc. After a duration of years death ensues from such causes as cardiac failure, dropsy, cerebral haemorrhage, uraemia, purulent inflammations of serous mem- branes, etc. Rarely are the essential symptoms of renal cirrhosis presented by a case commencing as an acute nephritis; such cases when they occur are usually marked by their rapid course. Chronic parenchymatous nephritis is characterised anato- mically by great degeneration of the renal epithelium: renal cirrhosis by marked changes in the connective tissue of the vascular system. The two forms are thus distinguishable anato- mically as well as clinically, and the pathological anatomist may therefore accept the clinical classification. It is however to be kept in mind that the two forms are by no means antithetic; the distinction is rather one of degree than of kind. In the former affection the connective-tissue elements undergo some morbid change, in the latter there is always some epithelial degeneration. There are in fact numerous intermediate and transitional forms partaking of the characters of both. The attempt has often been made to interpret the several forms of nephritis as stages of a single morbid process. But apart from the fact that acute nephritis does not usually pass into any of the chronic forms, there is this insuperable objection—that a given condition of the kidney in chronic nephritis may have been arrived at in several very different ways. There is no doubt at least that the mode of beginning of the disease differs in different cases. There is as little ground for the view that all forms of nephritis begin with glomerular changes, as that they all begin with epithelial degeneration or interstitial infiltration. And if the mode of beginning varies so also does the further course of the disease; we are in fact unable to say of a given advanced renal affection either how it began or what stages it has passed through. We can in general as little forecast how a given acute inflammation of the kidney would have terminated had the patient lived. We must therefore content ourselves with describing as accurately as possible the several forms that offer themselves for examination, and suggesting the possible ways in which these forms may have arisen.