60 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXIX. desquamated. The fatty change is only moderately developed, the amount of fat present not sufficing to whiten the parenchyma. When the kidney is much infiltrated and at the same time fatty, it is enlarged and the cortex is mottled with white patches; in extreme fatty change it may be all but uniformly white. This is the so-called large white kidney. The differences between the three forms being rather differences of degree than of kind, there are naturally many intermediate varieties. The external naked-eye appearance of the kidney depends greatly on the amount of blood it contains at the time of examina- tion. Thus when the parenchyma looks red we must not at once conclude that there is no fatty degeneration, for when the latter is slight it may be quite disguised by the presence of hyperaemia. Conversely, mere paleness of the tissue is by no means a certain index of fatty change. Haemorrhage may accompany all forms of nephritis, but there is one particular form in which the haemorrhage amounts to a characteristic; the cortex chiefly, the other parts in a less degree, being studded with red and brown patches of extravasation. This form is therefore described as chronic haemorrhagic nephritis (Fig. 213). The parenchyma may be altered in various ways; the most common change is a considerable degree of fatty degeneration with much infiltration of the fibrous stroma. The kidney is thus as a rule swollen and speckled with white, or almost uniformly white. There is usually much desquamation of the glomerular epithelium. When the most marked character in a case of chronic nephritis is the morbid change in the glomerular epithelium, we might fitly describe it as chronic glomerulo-nephritis. When the accom- panying degeneration of the tubular epithelium is slight the kidney may appear but very little altered, even though death has taken place from failure of the renal function; in such cases microscopic examination alone reveals the true character of the disease. The changes in the glomeruli are the same as those described in Arts. 544 and 540. In marked cases many of the glomeruli are obliterated. 546. Terminations of chronic parenchymatous nephritis. This disease not infrequently passes through the stages indicated in Arts. 544 and 545 and terminates in fatal suppression of the urinary function. In cases that are not speedily fatal the changes above described become more and more marked: which particular one of these changes is the most prominent depends on the individual peculiarities of the case. The fatty change is not rarely the most extensive, the kidney becoming more and more of an unmixed white colour as the greyish or reddish regions of fairly sound tissue diminish or disappear; the latter may at last be confined to the parts about the medullary rays. In such cases not only does the renal epi-