242 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIII. The so-called hydraemic dropsy occurs chiefly in connexion with nephritis, and affects the brain-substance as well as the membranes. Inflammatory oedema is set up within the substance of the brain and cord in the neighbourhood of foci of inflammation, sometimes also around tumours and patches of softening. In the membranes it may be the chief symptom of a slight meningitis, though it accompanies almost every form of localised disease of the superficial parts of the central nervous system. In the ventricles and central canal it results from inflammatory changes in the vessels of the plexuses and the ependyma, and is sometimes very extensive. It is acute or chronic according to the affection which induces it." When the inflammatory effusion in the ventricles is abundant the convolutions are compressed against the skull and flattened, while the blood and lymph are gradually squeezed out of the enveloping membranes. Acute general congestive oedema of the brain is said to be com- monest in children and as a result of acute congestive hyperaemia. The sudden congestion increases the intra-cranial pressure, and so compresses the capillaries and veins that the outflow of blood from the meninges is hindered : in this way secondary engorgement and oedema are produced (Huguenin). It is not possible to distinguish sharply between congestive and inflammatory oedema: on the contrary it is highly probable (Jurgensen) that so-called congestive oedema often represents merely an early stage of a rapidly fatal inflammation (Arts. 652, 653). When the brain and cord diminish in size, the space they leave unoccupied is usually filled up by the collection of liquid in the subarachnoid space: this is described as meningeal dropsy ex vacuo. Sometimes the ventricles are at the same time dilated. The volume of the brain may diminish rapidly as in extreme anaemia, profuse diarrhoea, infantile marasmus, etc. or slowly and gradually as in senile atrophy. The like happens to a limited extent when parts of the brain or cord lying just beneath the ependyma or pia mater are lost in consequence of some destructive process. When the nerve-substance in the interior of the central organs undergoes atrophy the space vacated is sometimes filled by liquid gathering in the circumvascular channels of the affected region itself. This is especially apt to occur when the atrophy has been preceded by abnormal dilatation of the vessels or distension of the lymphatics within the brain, so that the circumvascular lymph- spaces are already abnormally capacious. If the condition is wide- spread, affecting a considerable number of vessels, the brain on section appears riddled with perforations and the condition is referred to as etat cribU (Art. 643). Extensive loss of substance in the interior of the brain or cord, whether due to haemorrhage, softening, or inflammation, leads (after absorption of the detritus) to the formation of cavities which