39 ART. 536.] REN AT, DEGENERATION AND NECROSIS. 91; Eliaschoff, ibid. vol. 94; Aufrecht, Pathol. Mitt1io.il. n (1883); Nau- werck, Deutsche med. Woch. 1884; Discussion, Tram. Path. Soc. xxxiv 1883; Inglessis, Le rein dans le diabkte Paris 1886. 536. Fatty degeneration of the kidney occurs under various conditions, and affects chiefly the epithelial structures. In the first place, cloudy swelling (Art. 534) may issue in fatty change ; or the latter may be associated with epithelial necrosis (Art. 535). Fatty change however is frequently met with as an independent affection, especially in chronic anaemia or engorge- ment, in many forms of poisoning (as with phosphorus or arsenic), and in infective diseases such as scarlatina, yellow fever, typhus, small-pox, etc. It may affect not only the tubular but also the glomerular and capsular epithelium, and is characterised by the formation within the cells of droplets of oil of various sizes (Art. 544, Fig. 213). When the degeneration is extreme the cells may become entirely disintegrated. Slight fatty change is not perceptible to the unaided eye, especially when the vessels are full of blood, as in renal engorge- ment. Where the change is more marked the parenchyma assumes a greyish-white, white, or yellow tint. In phosphorus-poisoning and in yellow fever the fatty degenera- tion may reach an extreme degree without other textural change. And in like manner we may have extreme fatty change uncompli- cated with other conditions, the cause of which is as yet unrecognised. This is however rare, inasmuch as sooner or later inflammation is sure to be set up. A kidney which is uniformly of an opaque white through fatty transformation (white or fatty kidney) is always either inflamed or amyloid in some degree. The inflammatory condition is in many cases secondary to the fatty change (as in anaemia, phosphorus-poisoning, and yellow fever). In other cases it is antecedent or concomitant; so that the process is throughout inflammatory, and the fatty change is to be regarded as an accompaniment or result of the inflammation (Art. 544). Fatty change may issue in complete recovery if the initiating cause be checked or removed, the lost epithelium being replaced by regenerative multiplication of the uninjured cells. This is especially true of non-inflammatory change, inflammatory conditions leading in general to destruction or atrophy of the tissues. It is of course immaterial whether the inflammation is primary or secon- dary. Degeneration of the vascular connective tissue occurs to a serious extent only in cases where there is simultaneously a wide- spread degeneration of the epithelial structures; it is most marked in the inflammatory varieties. The capillaries are in general the most affected, their endothelium at times appearing crammed with oil-globules. In the fibrous structures the connective-tissue cells are the