THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCVI. 312 inflammation extending into the cortex along the pial sheaths of the vessels (/) and also directly (g). When arterial branches (e) pass through the granulomatous focus they are speedily infected, the adventitia, media, and intima becoming the seat of inflammation leading to cellular infiltration and fibro-cellular hyperplasia of the vessel-walls, according to the stage of the process. The intima (e) usually takes part to a remarkable extent in this hyperplasia, the thickening being often so great that the vessel is much obstructed or even occluded outright. The latter event is most apt to occur when thrombosis accompanies the endarteritis. Gummatous foci may be either single or multiple. The single foci are sometimes very small; Heubner indeed has shown that the specific inflammation may be limited to single spots on the arterial walls, and there lead to the thickening of the intima just described. Larger foci are however more frequent, and are described as nodes or gummata simply. In the earlier stages they are grey or greyish-red and soft, their form depending on the texture of the tissue in which they lie. On the surface of the brain they follow the course of the sulci and take their shape: in the sylvian fissure they are flat and elongated: about the base of the brain and the cord they have irregular forms. Sometimes about the basal meninges the syphilitic inflammation is more diffuse and not nodular. When it extends to the brain-substance and grows in size the diseased patch becomes more and more globular, and at times is as large as a walnut, though the periphery usually remains somewhat irregular. The same holds for the nodes which develope independently in the substance of the brain and cord. The smaller foci can undoubtedly disappear by re-absorption: the larger ones become partly indurated and partly caseous. The caseation begins with the appearance of yellowish-white opaque spots, measuring from a few millimetres to some centimetres across according to the size of the node itself. When several such spots appear in the same node they give it a mottled appearance, until at length coalescing they form a yellow centre to the mass. Induration generally goes on simultaneously with caseation, though sometimes the latter is absent. It leads to scar-like thickening of the meninges, and to adhesions between the pia and dura mater. The coarse scar-tissue generally encloses caseous patches. Where syphilitic inflammation is going on the nerve-elements of course perish: the process is frequently associated with ischaemic and haemorrhagic softening of adjoining parts, consequent on the disturbance of the circulation induced by arteritis and compression. Occasionally these degenerative changes extend widely. Nerves passing through the inflamed region undergo inflammatory infil- tration, and thereafter becoming enclosed and beset by coarse fibrous tissue they speedily atrophy and break down. Thus gummatous inflammation of the meninges at the lower end of the