THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVII. 176 refer in support of this not only to cases in which a clinical diagnosis of tuberculosis had been made, and years afterwards the indurative changes above described have been discovered in the lung, but also to a recently-published observation of Nauwerck's (Deut. med. Woch. 23, 1883). In the body of a man of 45, who five years before his death had for a time shown symptoms of bilateral disease of the apices of the lungs, and who died after a short illness of gastric cancer, Nauwerck found in the apices cicatricial patches enclosing scattered caseous foci with a few tubercle-bacilli. There was no trace of recent tuberculous bronchopneumonia or lymphangitis. In the indurated fibrous tissue no bacilli were found. It is worth noting that four brothers of the patient had previously died of tuberculosis. 615. The simplest and commonest form of pulmonary tuber- culosis is nodular tuberculous bronchopneumonia, character- ised by the formation of bronchopneumonic nodules and nodes. To give rise to it there must somewhere exist a mass of softening tubercle, a tuberculous bronchitis, or a bronchiectatic cavity: in other words a focus from which tubercle-bacilli may reach the bronchial passages and thence pass into the terminal bronchioles (Fig. 239 b). If the dissemination is rapid and extend over the greater part of the lung the patient may sink very speedily, and after death the lung is found studded with miliary grey and white nodules exactly resembling embolic tubercles. This form we might describe as miliary tuberculous bronchopneumonia (Fig. 237). The small patches lie partly in the alveolar ducts (Fig. 239 c), partly in the respiratory bronchioles (&): when recent they are cellular, but afterwards they become caseous or fibrous. The vessels perish as the nodules develope. Fig. 239. Nodular tuberculous bronchopneumonia. {Preparation injected with blue, and stained with carmine: x 25) a v-shaped patch, caseous in the centre and fibro-cellular at the periphery, produced by the infiltration of two contiguous alveolar ducts and their alveoli 6 respiratory bronchiole with cellular exudation in and around it c alveolar duct, with caseous cellular contents and infiltrated alveoli