THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. 292 If it be of tuberculous or syphilitic origin, in course of time the arachnoid, the subarachnoid tissue, and the pia mater become milky and thickened, partly from cellular infiltration, partly from the new-formation of fibrous tissue. Adhesions are not infrequently formed between the dura mater and the arachnoid. These are usually most dense and abundant in traumatic pachymeningitis; in the idiopathic form they are soft, fibrinous, and vascular. But secondary chronic inflammations of the inner meninges are still more frequently the result of acute or chronic disease of the brain and cord. Every subpial inflammatory and degene- rative process affecting the nerve-substance is capable of inducing meningeal inflammation: and tumours of the brain or cord act in like manner either directly, or through destructive changes in their own substance or in the tissue about them. The pia mater and the surface of the central nervous organs stand in the closest possible connexion, and in all degenerative processes affecting the latter, whether they are inflammatory or not, some of the products of disintegration are apt to reach the pial tissue and the subarachnoid spaces, and there give rise to turbidity or (in the case of haemorrhage) yellow or brown pig- mentation. The turbidity is more marked when the disintegrated matters possess irritating properties and excite inflammation. Then abundant extravasation of leucocytes ensues, and in time a more or less extensive fibrous hyperplasia is the result. In many cases the hyperplasia is well marked (Art. 642, Fig. 260), the meninges becoming dense, thick, white, and opaque. Both the subarachnoid and the arachnoid tissue take part with the pia mater in this hyperplasia, the trabeculae of the former becoming thicker and coarser, new trabeculae being formed, and the characteristic structure of the tissues obscured or altered. Calcareous concretions are common in the thickened membranes; pale peculiar-looking cells are aggregated into spherical clusters, then become homogeneous, and lastly calcified, and are surrounded by tiny capsules of cells and new-formed fibrous tissue. Secondary meningitis of the spinal cord is similar to that of the brain, and follows upon inflammations of the vertebrae or spinal dura mater. In some cases the inflammation also extends to the substance of the cord itself. 656. Haematogenous chronic leptomeningitis. We have already pointed out (Arts. 652, 653) that acute meningitis of haematogenous origin, if not fatal, may issue in recovery by re-absorption of the exudation ; but this is frequently accompanied by some thickening of the membranes due to new-formation of fibrous tissue. In certain not fully understood conditions the acute disorder passes into a chronic form, characterised by persistent cellular infiltration, and consequent thickening and opacity of the meninges: chronic internal hydrocephalus is a further sequela.