121 AHT. 585.] STRUCTUHE AND FUNCTION OF THE LUNGS. depending on disturbance of the circulation or disorder of the blood, make their first appearance in small patches corresponding to the territory of an arteriole, or they at once extend over a whole lobe, or over one or both lungs. In each case the extent and distribution of the local change is independent of the disposition and configuration of the smaller air-tubes. With regard to affections of bronchial origin it must be noted that mere disturbance of the influx or efflux of respired air may give rise to grave changes in the pulmonary parenchyma. Im- purity of the respired air is a still more potent cause of disease, as it leads not merely to morbid deposits in the lung but also, and very frequently, to inflammatory change. This latter is always at first localised, and often over areas corresponding precisely to the distribution of the bronchioles. Disease of parts contiguous to the lung, and especially of the pleura, often give rise to pulmonary injury by the hindrance or obstruction of the respiration which they cause. In other cases the morbid process itself extends from the surrounding tissues to the lung, and usually spreads along the course of the lymphatic channels. Malformations of the lung are on the whole not common. Absence of one or both lungs only occurs in cases where there are other grave defects of development. Absence of parts, abnormal smallness, etc., are met with in connexion with malformation or de- formity of the thorax. A small accessory lung unconnected with the trachea has once or twice been observed. The commonest anomaly, and one which has no functional significance, is multiplication of the lobes. In some of the lobes or in parts of them the air-tubes are occasionally absent or ill-developed, and then the corresponding part of the parenchyma consists simply of continuous cellular and highly vascular fibrous tissue. The bronchi leading to the airless tissue may be more or less dilated (Art. 582). On the other hand we sometimes find in one or more parts of the lung large vesicular cavities resembling excessively distended alveoli. On congenital malformations of the lungs see Furst (Gerhardt's Handb. d. Kinderkrankheit. in), Rokitansky (Path. Anat. iv (Syd. Soc.) London 1852), Maylard, and L. Humphry (Journ. of Anat. and Physiol. 1885), Edwards (Amer. Journ. mcd. sci. 1885).