THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVII. 172 nodules are found in the lungs, while some of the bronchial glands are tuberculous throughout or entirely caseous. It has even been noted that only a single small patch may occur in the lung, or that no patch at all may be discovered, and yet the bronchial glands may be extensively diseased. After the tuberculous process has spread over a considerable part of the lung and the lymphatics the bronchi also become diseased in like manner. The smaller tubes are first affected, then the larger, and often the trachea and larynx as well. If the sputum be swallowed tuberculosis of the alimentary canal may be set up. The author in a lecture published in 1878 {Sammlung hlin. Vortrage 151) explicitly insisted on the fact that the extension of tuberculosis in the lung takes place by way partly of the lymphatics and partly of the bronchial passages, the whole course of the disease suggesting inevitably that the secretion and other contents of tuberculous cavities act infectively upon the sounder parts of the lung. This statement was based chiefly on the results of anatomical examination and on the experiments on inhalation cited in Art. 612. The subsequent discovery of the tubercle-bacillus, and the demonstrated fact that the sputum from the diseased lung contains bacilli, corroborate the statement, and all the author's recent observations in the post-mortem room are in entire accord with it. When a number of tuberculous bronchopneumonia patches are found in a lung, there is always present an older disintegrated focus or a bronchiectasis or a caseous lymphatic gland: in these the bacilli have multiplied and have thence been disseminated along the air-passages. We are unable to set forth in detail the numerous and various accounts which have been given of tuberculous disease of the lung. An analysis of them could only be of value if accompanied by the arguments which have induced us to set aside those that differ from the account in the text, and this would scarcely be in place in a work like the present. In general terms it may be said that some of the views referred to are erroneous because they rest on mistaken ideas as to the structure of the lung; and further that sufficient attention has not been paid to the distinction between diseases of the respiratory parenchyma of the lung and diseases of the bronchi and peri- bronchial tissue. Many affections have thus been described as peribronchitic in which the peribronchial tissue is intact, the affection being really one of the respiratory tissue and only properly described as bronchopneumonic. Authors again have in many cases entirely ignored the lymphatics, while a few have exaggerated the part they play. Eeferences on the morbid anatomy of chronic pulmonary tuberculosis :— Laennec, Traite de Vauscultation mediate et des maladies des poumons et du cosur II Paris 1837; Carswell, Pathological Anatomy London 1838; Rohle, Ziemssen's Cyclop, v; Bjndfleisch, Pathological Histology n London 1873; Raymond, Arch. ge%. de mid. 1883; Orth, Virch. Arch. vol. 86, Berl. hlin. Woch. 1881; Aufrecht, Path. Mittheil. I, II; Koster, Sitzungsber. d. niedcrrhcin. Gesell. Bonn 1876; Huguenin, Corresp. f. Schweizer Aerzte 1880; Ziegler, loc. cit.; Buhl, loc. cit.; von Wyss, Gerhardt's Handb. d. Kinderkr. in; Hamilton, Pathology of bronchitis etc. London 1883 ; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist, n London 1884; Sormani, Annal. univers. di med. 1883; Germain See, Bacillary phthisis (trans, by Weddell) London 1885 ; Okth, Lehrb. d. spec. Path, n Berlin 1885. References on tubercle-bacilli in sputum etc.:—Koch, Berl. klin. Woch. 15, 1882 and 10, 1883; Baumgarten, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 15, 1882; Lichtheim, Fortschritte d. Med. I (1883); de Giacomi, ibid.; Balmer and Fraentzel, Berl. klin. Woch. 45,1882 and Deut. med. Woch. 17, 1883; Hiller, Deut. med. Woch. 47, 1882, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. V; P. Guttmann, Berl. klin. Woch. 52,