THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXVIII. 96 and swelling of the mucous membrane together with a mucous, purulent, or serous exudation. Serous exudation is observed chiefly in catarrhs due to persistent passive hyperaemia. The inflammation may extend over the entire organ or be limited to certain parts such as the vocal cords or the epiglottis. It may be induced by very various causes. In chronic catarrh the blood-vessels are sometimes perma- nently dilated. The epithelium desquamates freely and often accumulates round the vocal cords in whitish films and patches, which form a nidus for bacteria. The mucosa and submucosa are infiltrated with leucocytes. The fibrous strata frequently become hypertrophied and thickened. When the papillary structures of the glottis also are hypertrophied they assume the form of papillo- matous or warty growths. The mucous glands of the posterior surface of the epiglottis, the false cords, and the sinuses of Mor- gagni may become enlarged and dilated, and give the surface a granulated appearance (granular laryngitis). Loss of epithelium and rupture of the dilated and distended glands give rise to small erosions and ulcerations. Loss of continuous patches of epithelium is most frequently observed about the vocal cords and their posterior attachments, and is often due to the action of bacteria or of the thrush-fungus (Fig. 76, Art. 198). In chronic catarrh of long standing and in consequence of ulceration the glandular structures become obliterated and the mucous membrane thinned and atrophied. Slight but often- repeated irritation is sometimes followed by hypertrophy of the squamous epithelium, which gives the affected spots a white or pearly appearance. The vocal cords are the parts most commonly affected, and they are sometimes the seat of polypous excrescences at the same time (Art. 575). Croupous inflammation of the laryngeal mucous membrane is sometimes primary, sometimes secondary to inflammation in neighbouring parts. It is most common in connexion with diph- theria, small-pox, typhoid, and cholera, though it may also result from the inhalation of hot or irritant gases and vapours or from the introduction of foreign bodies. The interior of the larynx is covered with white or yellowish more or less coherent false mem- branes or only with white curdy flakes; these are sometimes readily removed, sometimes slightly adherent. The latter is the case when the epithelium of the affected part is stratified and squamous (Arts. 423—426). The false membranes consist in part of fibrinous filaments and meshes enclosing pus-corpuscles, in part of lustrous homogeneous flakes. When they are stripped off the underlying mucous mem- brane is red and raw-looking. Diphtheritic inflammation with sloughing and gangrene of the mucous membrane occurs most frequently m connexion with diphtheria and typhoid, though it is rare even in these diseases.