[CHAP. LXIX. 58 THE URINARY ORGANS. lumen of the capsules, though not infrequently larger extravasations are observed in which the capsules and their tubules appear widely distended with blood (fp). In many cases the glomerular epithelium looks perfectly normal, but it is more common to find it somewhat swollen, the individual cells standing out clearly from the contours of the capillaries. Multiplication and desquamation usually set in, and epithelial cells are seen in greater or less numbers lying loose within the capsules (c). These may be washed out unchanged into the tubules, but at times they accumulate in quantity within the capsule, surrounding the glomerular vessels in successive strata (c) and separating or compressing the loops by their intrusion. Frequently too the cells break down or dissolve in the liquid escaping from the glomerular vessels, and homogeneous or granular coagula (g h) are thus formed, which more or less completely ensheath the glomerulus. The nuclei enclosed in these coagula often persist for a long time, and occasionally give them the appearance of intracapsular new-formations of connective tissue. In addition to the swelling and desquamation of the epithelium we often remark a certain amount of fatty change, which gives the cells the look of being powdered or sprinkled with minute globules. The glomerular capillaries appear for the most part unaltered, though all the changes described in Art. 540 may occasionally be observed. The capsular epithelium (d) is as a rule far less altered than the glomerular, though it too may in certain cases become swollen, break up, and desquamate. It may also undergo fatty degeneration. The tubular epithelium always shows more or less marked signs of cloudy swelling, fatty degeneration, desquamation, and disintegration. The most striking of these changes, the fatty degeneration (I m n), is distinguished by the presence of droplets and globules of oil within the cells, varying in size and number according to the degree of degeneration. The fatty cells (m 6) are the most apt to be shed, though this happens also in the case of the swollen and cloudy cells. These desquamated cells dissolve in situ or are carried into remoter parts of the tubules, where they may coalesce into hyaline cylinders. The degenerative changes affect chiefly the convoluted tubules, though they are not entirely absent in the loops and collecting tubes. In the latter especially there may be very marked de- squamation of the epithelium. When considerable haemorrhages have taken place in the glomeruli the corresponding tubules are distended with blood, their epithelium appearing compressed and flattened (p). The blood presently disintegrates, forming granules and flakes oi pigment: these are usually taken up by the epithelial cells (I m), part also appearing in the fibrous stroma (s) whither they are carried by the absorbents (Art. 530).