CHAPTER XCVIII. THE DURA MATER, PINEAL BODY, AND PITUITARY BODY. 664. The dura mater is a stout fibrous membrane, closely adherent to the inner surface of the cranium, and dividing into two laminae at the foramen magnum: one of these lines the vertebral canal, the other forms a sack-like investment for the spinal cord, the intervening space containing loose connective tissue, fat, and blood-vessels, in particular the venous plexuses. Where the dura mater adheres to the bone it serves as its periosteum, and is liable to all the morbid changes that affect the periosteum of other bones. Certain special dangers also arise from its connexion with the central nervous system, and these require separate consideration. In the first place the dura mater is very frequently the seat of an inflammatory process known as chronic internal pachyme- ningitis, the result of various injurious agencies whose exact nature is not fully understood. The inflammation is usually haemato- genous, and is associated either with inflammation of the pia mater and subarachnoid tissue on the one hand or with disease of the bones on the other. It is commonest in the cerebral dura mater, and may be unilateral and circumscribed, or bilateral and in scattered areas or generally diffused. The first morbid sign is the appearance of very thin fibrinous deposits on the internal surface of the membrane: these consist of scanty liquid and cellular exudations from the dural vessels. After a time the fibrin becomes organised, or in other words pervaded by living cells and new-formed vessels growing as off-shoots from the in flamed capillaries. A delicate fibrous tissue is thus elaborated, which lines the dura mater as a semi-transparent vascular mem- brane. The new-formed vessels have very thin walls and are particu- larlyprone to bleed,the slightest disturbances of the circulation appa- rently sufficing to set up haemorrhage by rupture or diapedesis. The consequence is that pachymeningitic membranes nearly always contain recent extravasations and pigmented deposits testifying to 21—2