THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVII. 162 stages can be observed only in cases where shortly before death a quantity of irritating dust, or very small particles of secretion from the air-passages themselves, have been inhaled. Wherever these particles lodge an acute reactive inflammation is set up around them, first of all in the wall of the particular air- space, and soon (if the irritation be sufficiently great) in the adjoining tissue also. In this way are formed minute, or as they are called miliary, patches of inflammation starting from the terminal air-sacs or infundibula (Fig. 233), or from the alveolar ducts and respiratory bronchioles (Fig. 234) with their alveoli, and spreading to the neighbouring elements by direct extension. When the aspirated substances are still more irritating {e.g. saliva with remains of food, pus from laryngeal abscesses, etc.), the inflammations induced are more extensive. In this way are produced larger areas of bronchopneumonia extending over a number of contiguous alveoli, alveolar ducts, and bronchioles. When entire lobules are thus attacked we have what is called lobular bronchopneumonia. When all or most of the lobules of a lobe are simultaneously affected we have what may be called lobar bronchopneumonia. The appearance of the bronchopneumonic patches naturally varies with the form of the inflammation (Arts. 596, 597) and the stage it has reached. When exudation has followed upon the initial hyperaemia, the spots have a dark-red, greyish-red, grey, or greyish-yellow tint, and yield on pressure a turbid liquid whose tint varies in like manner, according to the proportion of red and white blood-cells it contains. Only in croupous inflammations is the exudation solid or semi-solid and not readily squeezed out. The cut surface has a granular look. The inflamed patches are some- times well-defined, sometimes indistinct. The tissue around them is usually hyperaemic. In miliary bronchopneumonia when the cellular infiltration is dense and the patches sharply-defined, they sometimes look very like recent miliary tubercles. Very frequently indeed bronchopneumonia is preceded by bronchitis and bronchiolitis, and thus before the respiratory tissue is actually inflamed some of the smaller bronchi may be obstructed and so give rise to lobular collapse or atelectasis (Art. 591). The collapsed lobules assume a dark-red or livid tint, and thus the onset of bronchopneumonia in them is not very obvious. The tint alters only after a certain amount of cellular and serous exudation has taken place into the alveoli, and then the character- istic turbid juice can be squeezed from the affected tissue. 611. The number and distribution of the bronchopneumonic centres will of course be very different in different cases. In one instance they may be scattered over both lungs, in another confined to a part of a single lobe. When a large number of lobules are collapsed or inflamed, compensatory dilatation of the still active