ART. 630.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 223 cephalic end of the embryo (Art. 7). When for any reason some part of the medullary tube is destroyed or hindered in its development the growth of the lateral medullary plates does not entirely cease (Lebedeff); they enlarge and form a number of folds buried in the substance of the mesoblast, and becoming partially abstricted take the form of irregular cysts and cavities. When the liquor amnii makes its appearance the exposed medullary plates are usually much damaged; the underlying mesoblast developes at the same time into the cerebral membranes, and the result is that instead of a brain we have covering the base of the skull a mass of vascular connective tissue containing cystic cavities and marrow-like remnants of brain-substance. As the dorsal wall of the medullary tube was defective or absent, the cranial vault is more or less defective or absent, and the anencephalia is thus associated with conditions known as acrania, hemicephalus or cranioschisis (Art. 7). When the development of the brain is only in part interfered with, or when parts only of the rudimental structures have been destroyed in an early stage, the result is some partial deficiency which we may appropriately call partial anencephalia. The situation, size, and extent of such deficiencies may of course vary greatly in different cases, and give rise to a great variety of brain-deformities. If the skull is closed (and in these cases it usually is closed) the space left vacant by the ill-developed brain becomes filled with liquid, which gathers either in the subarachnoid tissue outside the existing brain-mass, or within it in one of its ventricles, or in both places together. The latter forms have been described by Cruveilhier as hydrocephalic anencephalia. Cases of anencephalia also occur in which more or less important parts of the base of the brain {e.g. the basal ganglia) are properly developed, and others in which while one hemisphere is developed (though perhaps malformed) the other hemisphere is wanting. The cranial vault in such cases may either be entire, defective, or distended as in hydrocephalus (Art. 631). When the vault is closed the fragments of brain-substance are shut off from the space filled with liquid by a fibrous partition representing some of the cerebral membranes. If the defect of development has mainly affected the anterior part of the fore-brain we have the malforma- tion known as synophthalmia or cyclopia, and arhinencephalia (Kundrat). In the latter form the nose is undeveloped, in the former the eyes (Art. 7). The nose sometimes takes the form of a snout-like projection (ethmocephalia), sometimes it is a mere stunted remnant (cebocephalia); in other cases again there is a median fissure of the upper lip and of the septum of the nose, or a single or double lateral hare-lip and cleft-palate. In the slightest variety of the malformation the face is normal, the brow alone being narrow and tapering. In both synophthalmia and arhinencephalia the cerebrum is