238 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIII. way. The extravasated blood lies partly in the brain-tissue, partly in the sheaths of the vessels. In the latter position the small collec- tions of blood are often described as miliary dissecting aneurysms. In pyaemic encephalitis bacteria are sometimes to be seen in the vessels, and look as if they gave rise to capillary haemorrhage partly by obstructing and partly by destroying the walls of the vessels. In other cases the capillaries have undergone fatty degeneration. When the arteries are obliterated by sclerotic thickening of the intima, by thrombosis, or by embolism, the haemorrhages are not usually very extensive; these changes more frequently give rise to a number of small isolated patches of extravasation. Extreme venous engorgement, due for example to obstruction of the jugular veins or thrombosis of a sinus in the dura mater, frequently gives rise to capillary and venous haemorrhages situated chiefly in the pia mater and the ependyma of the ventricles. In the former situation they are sometimes so massive that the subarachnoid and subpial spaces are largely filled with blood. Engorgement within the brain, such as results from large tumours or old extravasations, usually leads to the formation of numerous small circumscribed patches, lying around the capillaries and small veins either in the sheaths of the vessels or in the nerve- substance itself. Wounds, compressions, contusions, and concussions of the brain and cord due to traumatic violence give rise to bleeding whose extent is of course dependent on the number and magnitude of the ruptured vessels. Extensive spontaneous haemorrhage (apoplexy) results from the rupture of an artery, and that only takes place when the arterial wall has from degenerative or inflammatory change lost its normal power of resistance (Arts. 297—300). Aneurysmal dilatation (Art. 303) usually though by no means always precedes rupture. Increased pressure within the arteries (so-called 'high tension'), such as generally accompanies the hypertrophied heart and con- tracted kidney of chronic nephritis or arteriosclerosis, is apt to lead to the rupture of diseased vessels, but not of healthy ones. Spontaneous arterial haemorrhage takes place most frequently in and about the region of the basal ganglia and the internal capsule. It is less common about the pons, crura, cerebellum, and centrum ovale. It is least common on the convexity of the hemispheres. This inequality of distribution depends on the fact that the arteries of the base are subject to a higher blood-pressure than the smaller vessels which pass from the arterial network of the pia mater into the grey matter of the cortex. This is especially true of the branches of the sylvian artery which supply the basal ganglia and the internal capsule. Arterial haemorrhage results in disintegration of the nerve-tissue and ganglia over a more or less extensive area, and in compression of the parts surrounding the area. Only in the smallest capillary