ART. 630.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 225 membranes in the neighbourhood of the defect often show changes similar to those which in later life are known to follow upon submeningeal anaemic and inflammatory softening (Art. 642). Pressure from without or a blow on the cranium may in some cases bring about a like result. In others internal or ventricular hy- drocephalus (Art. 631) may disturb the circulation of the part and lead to its wasting or disappearance. When the convolutions about the defect are normal it is probable that the destruction took place at a time when the brain was fairly developed, say not later than the fifth month. Obvious disturbance of the configuration of the brain would imply an earlier date. Occasionally such local defects must be due to actual failure of development, or agenesis as it might be called. Deficiencies in the deeper parts of the brain are usually unaccompanied by any signs of" destructive disease; they would therefore seem to be due to primary failure of development. The condition of the cord corresponding to anencephalia is called amyelia. Most frequently the two go together, and are accompanied by defects of the vertebral arches and of the meninges and integuments. A cleft thus extends from the opening in the cranium down to the cervical, dorsal, or it may be to the sacral region (rhachischisis). Clefts of the dorsal or lumbar spine alone, extending through the skin, are more rare. Where the vertebral arches are absent the cord is also wanting, so that the vertebral bodies are covered only by membranes. Such defects are due either to some sharp flexure of the embryo, to imperfect separation of the medullary plate from the superficial or epidermic epiblast, or to dropsical distension of the medullary tube. Partial defects of the cord are very rare when the spinal canal is closed. On the other hand Adamkiewicz states that in 80 persons out of 100 some of the 31 pairs of roots of the spinal nerves will exhibit more or less marked defects, especially in the anterior roots. Slight asymmetry of the cord, chiefly in the decussation of the pyramids in the medulla, is an extremely common phenomenon. The term porencephalia (or porencephaly) is used in different senses by different writers, some confining it to congenital defects, others applying it to those which are acquired after birth. Many apply it only to small and local- ised defects, others extend it so that it might imply the absence of an entire cerebral hemisphere. It seems better to limit its application to localised defects that are congenital or at least acquired in early infancy. When in total or partial anencephalia the motor centres and tracts are wanting, the pyramidal tracts and columns of the cord do not develope (Fi.echsig). And in partial failure of development (agenesis) of the brain Pick observes that the pyramidal tracts are imperfectly differentiated, the medullary sheath of the fibres being ill-developed. References on anencephalia and amyelia:—Dareste, Rechcrches sur la production des monstruosites Paris 1877; Perls, Allg. Path, n 1879; Lebedeff, Virch. Arch. vol. 86 ; Forster, Missbildungen d. Menschcn Jena 1865, Handb. d. path. Anat. 1865 ; Heschl, Prager Vierteljahrsschrift 1859, '61, '68,Jahrb.f. Kinderhcilk. xv, Arch. d. Ocscll. f. Acrzte in Wicn 1878; Kundrat, J)ie Porencephalic Graz 1882, Die Arhinenccphalio Graz 1882; Klebs, Ueber Hydro- u. Mikroanencephalie, Oestcrreich. Jahrb. f. Pddiatrik 1876; Schule, S. P. A. 2 15