35 ART. 534.] RENAL DEGENERATION AND NECROSIS. Cloudy swelling. The epithelial cells (Fig. 205 a) of the convoluted tubules are usually wedge-shaped or conical; by broad- ening of the apex they may become more cylindrical, and by ex- pansion of the base somewhat mushroom-shaped. The outer (parietal) half of each cell is striated with radial rod-shaped mark- ings, due either to differentiation of the cell-protoplasm into two substances of different refractive power, or to splitting and fibril- lation. The inner (apical) half of the cell is homogeneous or finely granular, and in some cases terminates in a process (a), which ends in a free point or flattened plate, or joins with other projections, or simply lies over on the apex of the neighbouring cell. In the ascending limb of Henle's loops the cells are similar in form but somewhat shorter; in the descending limb the striated portion of the cell is contracted to a kind of basal plate. The epi- thelium of the intercalary tubules and collecting tubes is unstriated. The condition known as cloudy swelling is accompanied by a slight enlargement of the kidney, the cortex assuming a turbid grey or greyish-red tint something like the tint of renal anaemia, but less translucent. If the interlobular veins contain blood the section appears streaked with red, while the medulla is generally livid. When the affection first sets in the striated cells of the cortex become more markedly granular (6). The striations become less fine (Nauwerck) and then appear to break up into granules. Then the apical part of the cell becomes granular, the whole cell swells up, and loses its normal shape. The processes become swollen, and are ultimately effaced. The nucleus soon becomes distended to a clear vesicle and disappears, and the cell looks uniformly turbid and granular (c d). At this stage the cells become loosened from each other, and somewhat raised up from their basal membrane. At length oil-globules may make their appearance in the body of the cell, which then breaks up and dissolves. In the convoluted tubules the first minute oil-globules usually appear at the bases of the cells; in the collecting tubes they appear round the nucleus (Nauwerck). This series of changes is very frequently met with in infective fevers such as typhus, small-pox, purulent meningitis, erysipelas, septicaemia, diphtheria, etc. and usually extends over the greater part of the cortex. If the change has not gone far the cells may recover; but where the associated dropsical or fatty degeneration has taken place the epithelium can only be replaced by regenerative multiplication. The glomeruli and their epithelium usually show no visible change, though now and then some of the cells look swollen, turbid, and granular or powdered. It is also worthy of note that in some cases haemorrhage may occur from the glomeruli, distending their capsules and tubules with blood, and giving rise to red streaks and spots on the section of the cortex. These haemorrhages are due either to obstruction of the capillary circulation in the swollen parenchyma, or to degeneration of the glomeruli themselves. 3—2