HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. 49 ART. 540.] or they are transformed into homogeneous spherules with few or many nuclei, larger than the normal glomeruli and impermeable by the blood or by artificial injections. According to Friedlander the latter is the form most frequent in post-scarlatinal nephritis, and it may extend over a great part of the kidney. It would appear to be due to a hyaline swelling (Art. 63) of the vessel-walls themselves. Some of the capillaries appear to contain an excess of white blood-corpuscles and it is possible that this may occasionally give rise to thrombosis (Bjbbert). According to Langhans and Nauwerck the endothelial cells of the capillary loops become swollen (Fig. 209 a), proliferous, loosened (b), and degenerate (d), the epithelial cells of the glomeruli (h k) also undergoing de- squamation. Haemorrhagic exudation is very common, the capsule of the glomerulus then becoming tightly distended with blood (Fig. 212/, Art. 544). The tubular epithelium may be altogether unaltered. In other instances single cells may appear degenerate, turbid, fatty, or necrotic, or they may be loosened and disintegrated. Hyaline casts occupy the lumen of some of the tubules. The intertubular connective tissue is in general entirely un- affected ; now and then it appears somewhat swollen from in- flammatory oedema, or contains a few scattered patches of cellular infiltration. The naked-eye appearance of the kidney is not usually altered to any sensible extent. Only when there is great hyaline thicken- ing of the glomerular capillaries do the glomeruli become notice- able by their paleness and increased size (Friedlander). Glomerulo-nephritis is not a specific disease, as it can be produced by a variety of causes. According to Klebs, Fried- lander, Cornil, Klein, etc. it is specially apt to follow upon scarlatina. It may also accompany pyaemia, septicaemia, diph- theria, relapsing fever, erysipelas, carbuncle, etc., or arise idio- pathically, that is without any antecedent infective disease. It obviously is due to the action of deleterious substances reaching the glomerular vessels by way of the circulation, and damaging the vessels in the process of excretion through their walls. It thus stands aetiologically in close relation with the forms of degenera- tion described in Arts. 534, 535, and indeed it is difficult or impossible to draw a sharp line separating the histological appearances in the two groups. Glomerulo-nephritis may cause death by suppression of the urinary secretion. In other cases it issues in recovery, or in chronic change. References :—KliBBS, Ilandb. d.path. Anat. i; Kelsch, Arch, de physiologic 1874 ; Klein, Reports to Med. Off. of Privy Council 1876 ; Langhans, Virch. Arch. vols. 76, 99 ; Hortoles, Etude d. proc. histol. des nephrites Paris 1881 ; Leech, Brit. Med. Joum. 1, 1881; Greenfield, Atlas of Pathology (New S. P. A. 2 4