120 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAR LXXX1. sections (a, b) of bronchioles, alveolar ducts, and infundibula. At the boundaries of the several bronchiolar systems we find broader bands of connective tissue marking off the so-called lobules. The pulmonary parenchyma derives its blood-supply almost entirely from the pulmonary artery. Its capillaries surround the walls of each air-cell or alveolus (Fig. 220), and their loops project into its cavity covered only by the thin epithelial lining. The terminal branches of each arteriole are not distributed to a single bronchiolar system only (Fig. 219 A), but supply several contiguous systems: they anastomose freely with the branches of neighbouring arterioles (Fig. 220) and form a continuous network of vessels. The blood from the capillaries is collected into inter- lobular veins which run between the several arterial areas. The lymphatics arise in clefts and spaces lying in the inter- alveolar septa. The radicles unite and run in the peribronchial and circumvascular tissue, or in the interlobular, subpleural, and pleural connective tissue. Both bronchi and arteries are very richly supplied with lymphatics. Throughout the whole lymphatic system of the lung we meet with collections of lymphoid cells (Friedlander, Arnold, Kolliker), which are either round or fusiform. In children these lymphadenoid patches contain large numbers of cells, but in adults they are often more fibrous and pigmented. The pigment is enclosed in round, fusiform, or stellate cells, or it may lie free between them. Keferences :—Text-books of normal histology such as Quain's Anatomy II London 1882, Klein's Elements of Histology London 1883 ; Friedlander, Virch. Arch. vol. 68; Arnold, ibid. vol. 80 ; Kolliker, Zur Eenntniss d. Baues d. Lunge Wiirzburg 1881 ; Klein, Anatomy of the lymphatic system London 1875 ; Feuerstak, Ueber d. Verhalten d. Epithels bei d. fibrinogen Pneumonie Gottingen 1882 ; Kuttner, Die Ereislaufsverhdltnigge d. Sauge- thierlunge, Virch. Arch. vol. 73; Cohnheim and Litten, ibid. vol. 65; Zuckerkandl, Ueber Verbind. ztvigclien den art. Gefaggen d. menschl. Lunge, Wiener Sitzunggberichte lxxxvii. The pulmonary artery is distributed almost entirely to the parenchyma of the lung, but it also according to Kuttner gives off small branches to the subpleural and interlobular connective tissue and to the bronchial mucous membrane. The pulmonary arterioles are terminal, but by dilatation of the communicating capillaries connexions between neighbouring arterial territories are readily established and perform the function of anastomoses. The branches of the bronchial arteries subdivide with the bronchi and supply these and their nerves and lymphatic trunks. Their capillaries are connected with those of the pulmonary artery. The vessels which reach the lung from the mediastinal pleura supply the subpleural and interlobular lymphatics, but they also communicate with the pulmonary and bronchial arterial systems. 585. The morbid affections of the lung originate in the vascular system or in the bronchi, or are extensions by contiguity from neighbouring parts. The affections starting in the vascular system, that is to say