263 ART. 643.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. varies much in different cases. The smallest patches may be too small for the unaided eye, the larger may involve whole convolutions, important sections of the centrum ovale or of the basal ganglia, or even entire lobes. The smaller patches after a time take the form of little cavities filled with clear liquid, and when numerous give the tissue a cribriform or sponge-like appearance. When the softening has occurred round a small arterial branch the space left vacant on absorption of the products of disintegration is often filled up by accumulation of liquid in the adventitial lymph-channel belonging to the vessel, which latter then looks as if it ran through a wide lymph-sac resembling that caused by simple localised lymphatic stagnation or engorgement. The condition in which the nerve- tissue is thus as it were riddled with small cavities is commonly described as an etat crible (compare also Art. 637). The contents of large cysts of disintegration due to ischaemic softening are seldom quite clear, the absorption of the solid detritus being a very slow process, while at the borders of the softened region the disintegration of nerve-substance usually goes on to some extent for months or years after the initial lesion. When such large cysts lie just under the pia mater or at least not very deeply, the overlying tissue in general sinks in and leaves a subpial or subarachnoid space which soon fills with liquid. The depressed surface looks opaque and white or tinged with yellow or brown. On section the softened patch is found to contain a milky (or sometimes pigmented) liquid traversed by shreds of tissue which are for the most part collapsed or still permeable vessels and capillaries (Fig. 260 Bt). The membranes overlying an old patch of softening are usually hyperplastic ((7t), the blood-vessels also often showing signs of thickening (/). A certain amount of cellular infiltration takes place not only into the walls of the cyst but also into the soft membranes (pia mater and subarachnoid), and this may continue as long as the process of disintegration goes on. Calcareous concretions are not infrequently formed in the thickened mem- branes, and the ganglion-cells in the parts contiguous to the cyst may also become calcified. When a patch of softening lies near a ventricle the latter usually becomes dilated by the falling away of its wall in the direction of the cyst of disintegration. Ischaemic softening occurs at all parts of the central nervous system: in the brain the process is named briefly encephaloma- lacia, in the cord it has been called myelomalacia. Softening of the cord affects the grey matter, the white matter, or both together. It is interesting to observe that the anterior horns are more liable than the other regions to undergo anaemic and haemorrhagic softening: the anterior horn corresponds almost exactly with the vascular territory of one of the arterial twigs entering by the anterior longitudinal fissure, and when the