ART. 630.] 239 DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION. haemorrhages can the nerve-tissue escape, and then it is simply compressed by accumulation of blood in the circumvascular sheaths. Rupture of the smallest arteries produces haemorrhagic foci varying from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut; in the case of the larger branches rupture may destroy entire segments of brain- tissue, such as the greater part of the basal ganglia of one side, together with part of the contiguous white substance, or the whole white centre of" one occipital lobe. A recent haemorrhagic patch forms a soft dark-red coagulated or pulpy mass, containing fragments of disintegrated nerve-tissue. When the haemorrhage is large the remainder of the brain is anaemic, the convolutions more or less flattened by pressure, and the furrows effaced. Round the chief focus lie a varying number of smaller foci mottling the cut surface, and due to the disturbance of the circulation set up by the primary haemorrhage. If the rupture takes place in the neighbourhood of a ventricle, blood may pass into its cavity and thence through the transverse fissures into the subarachnoid space. Blood extravasated into the cortex is apt to collect beneath the pia mater and may also penetrate to the subarachnoid space. In haemorrhage from meningeal arteries these spaces are naturally the main seat of extravasation, the brain-substance being affected only in a secondary manner. When the arachnoid membrane is ruptured we have also subdural accumulations of blood. As coagulation takes place, the haemorrhagic mass contracts and the watery portions of the blood are in part removed by means of the blood-vessels and lymphatics. The initial compression of surround- ing parts is thus gradually diminished and at length ceases. At the same time the clot changes colour and becomes reddish-brown. Presently some of the colouring-matter (haemoglobin) is absorbed, tinging with yellow the parts around. At length the whole mass disintegrates (Art. 68), the detritus is in course of time absorbed (Arts. 638, 642), and the space so vacated is filled up either by exuded liquid or by the contraction and falling together of its walls. In the latter case a corresponding dilatation of the subarachnoid space or of the ventricles must take place. When the space is filled with liquid we have what is called an apoplectic cyst, when the space is effaced by contraction of its walls we have an apoplectic cicatrix. In either case there is usually some thickening and induration of the walls (Art. 639), which are stained of a yellow, brownish-red, or brown colour, while some of the pigment derived from the extravasated blood remains unabsorbed as brown Hakes and granules of ferric hydrate, with perhaps a few particles or crystals of haematoidin. The induration is due partly to fibrous hyperplasia of the sheaths of the blood-vessels, partly to proliferation of the neuroglia. When the haemorrhage is small and confined to the sheaths of the vessels, and so does not involve any destruction of nerve-tissue,