234 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [chap. xcir. 634. All the malformations of the brain above described, when they are not incompatible with life and growth, give rise to more or less grave disorder of its functions. Where the mal- formation is great mental development fails, and a condition of idiocy is the result. There is however no one variety of mal- formation which can be assigned as the anatomical basis of idiocy; there is in other words no special ' idiotic brain.' General arrest of development, dropsical dilatation of the ventricles, local defects or imperfections, all may- result in idiocy. In other instances idiocy may accompany very slight and apparently unimportant ab- normalities, such as heterotopia of grey matter, absence or smallness of the corpora albicantia, corpus callosum, fornix, thalamus, optic nerves, corpus striatum, pineal body, or olivary body, irregularity of the gyri, asymmetry of the hemispheres, etc.: or the brain may be so far as we can see perfectly normal, or hypertrophic through increase of the neuroglia. Lastly, ischaemic and inflammatory destructive processes affecting the cortex sometimes induce idiocy. On the other hand grave malformations such as we have just mentioned, and even others apparently more serious, have existed without giving during life any functional evidence of their presence. In cretinism as in sporadic idiocy no special and characteristic defect of the brain can be demonstrated. Cretinism is as we have seen (Art. 623 a) a disorder of de- velopment occasioned by some unknown miasmatic influence, and manifested in the imperfect growth of the skeleton and the disproportionate size of the soft parts. Idiocy more or less pronounced is a frequent though not invariable symptom, but malformation of the brain is not more general or constant than in idiocy without cretinism. Benedikt some time ago asserted that in criminals certain peculiarities of the configuration of the cerebral surface were constantly met with, and inferred that criminals were practically to be regarded as an anthropological variety of the race. Their brains resembled in some points those of lower animals, and were characterised by a tendency of the sulci to run one into the other, so that they were continuous at points where in normal brains they would be bridged over or interrupted by convolutions. This hypothesis is however untenable. Apart from the difficulty of settling the definition of the term criminal, investigation has shown that Benedikt's anomaly of the sulci occurs in persons who have never committed crime or come under the criminal law (Bardeleben). The like holds for the anomalies and malformations of the brain found in certain insane and epileptic patients. They are none of them peculiar or pathognomonic of nervous or mental disease, inasmuch as they also occur in persons whose mental functions are perfectly normal. All we can say is—that anomalies