CHAPTER LXXVII. THE NASAL CAVITIES. 567. Congenital malformations of the nose which are at all extreme are met with only in combination with other malforma- tions of the face. Thus in Cyclopia (Art. 7) the nose may be wanting or represented by a snout-like projection beneath the single orbit. Minor anomalies are—the absence of some of the nasal muscles, defects of the septum, of the ethmoid, or of the nasal bones, constriction or closure of the posterior nares, obliquity or distortion of the septum, and clefts of the alae nasi or of the floor of the nostrils. The latter occur in connexion with cleft-palate and cleft-face (Art. 8). Haemorrhage from the nasal mucous membrane (epistaxis > is very common, and may be due either to diapedesis or to rupture of blood-vessels. In many persons epistaxis is habitual: in others it occurs most frequently in connexion with the haemorrhagic diathesis, and in various infective diseases, menstrual disorders, venous engorgement, inflammatory conditions, etc. Inflammation of the nasal mucous membrane (rhinitis) is one of the commonest affections. It usually takes the form of a mucous or purulent catarrh (Art. 420) ; the croupous, diphtheritic, phlegmonous, and ulcerative varieties are much less common. Acute nasal catarrh is spoken of as coryza, and may result from a great variety of causes, such as cold, inhalation of irritant matters, micro-organisms, etc. Chronic nasal catarrh occurs chiefly in persons who are scrofulous, phthisical, or syphilitic: it is comparatively rare in persons otherwise healthy. Sometimes it results in thickening, sometimes in thinning or even atrophy, of the mucous membrane. In the latter case the nasal cavity appears abnormally large, and its walls secrete a yellowish or greenish pus which undergoes putrid decomposition and gives rise to a foetid odour (ozaena simplex) and to the formation of dirty greenish crusts and scales. Frankel points out that in this form of atrophy the Bowman's glands disappear, and it is very probable that the alteration in the nasal secretion thereby occasioned makes it possible for septic