THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XC1V. 282 the result of isolated local inflammations in the cord (Art, G59). Whether the disease known as multiple sclerosis is frequently or indeed at all a result of multiple inflammations is a question still unsettled. The occurrence of a disseminated miliary encephalitis and myelitis is in favour of an affirmative answer. Although we are thus able in many cases to refer the causation of multiple sclerosis to primary degenerative or inflammatory processes, other cases are met with in which there are no grounds for such an assumption. These are cases both of ordinary multiple sclerosis and of the form which is described as granular ependymal sclerosis. The latter is a morbid change of the lining membrane of the cerebral ventricles characterised by the formation of small prominent grey granulations on its surface. In extreme cases these beset the ependyma so closely that it feels rough to the touch. Sometimes the little prominences coalesce and form reticulate or arabesque patterns on the surface. Histologically the change consists in a new-formation of neuroglia, the fibrous feltwork being exceptionally dense in proportion to the number of cells or nuclei present. The cylin- drical epithelium which invests the ventricle sometimes continues to cover the prominences, sometimes falls away and leaves them bare. Diffuse forms of ependymal and subependymal sclerosis are also met with. If the process extends from the floor of the fourth ventricle to the deeper structures it may cause the destruction of the ganglion-cells in the grey nuclei of the cranial nerves. We do not yet know the nature of the exciting cause of these affections: the fact that they are frequently associated with chronic meningitis would suggest that they are of a chronic inflammatory character. In some cases circumvascular collections of cells are found in the subependymal tissue, and in this respect the granulations recall the structure of inflammatory papillomata of the skin (Art. 394). Not infrequently extensive proliferations take place in the connective tissue about the central canal of the cord; they occur both in patches and as continuous longitudinal growths (Art. 637). As they are met with chiefly in connexion with malformations of the canal, or in regions which experience shows to be liable to congenital anomaly, i.e. about the posterior columns, it seems fair to suppose that they depend on some congenital anomaly of structure in the tissues. Moreover, these proliferations are some- times accompanied by sclerotic patches in other parts of the central nervous system, and hence it is not improbable that other multiple scleroses may occasionally be referable to disorders of development. Many writers speak of all grey degenerations, hard or gelatinous, as scleroses. The etymology of the term (oTcA^por hard and dry) would limit its application to the former variety. If however we extend the word to cover