262 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. Lastly, compression of the nerve-substance by tumours, exuda- tions, etc. (Art. 644) leads frequently to local anaemia or isch- aemia. When such temporary or permanent ischaemia gives rise to necrosis of the substance of the brain or cord, softening of the necrosed region speedily takes place. If the ischaemia is unaccom- panied by haemorrhage the tissue remains pale and at first only becomes softer and more brittle: this process is therefore described as white softening. After a few days the substance of the organ is (owing to the rapid disintegration of the nerve-elements and the escaped liquid from the vessels) transformed into a pulpy mass, containing the products of disintegration described in Art. 638 together with fat-granule cells of every conceivable form. In the course of weeks the process of liquefaction steadily advances, and at length nothing remains of the nerve-substance but a liquid mass rendered turbid by detritus and fat-granule cells. The blood-vessels usually persist (Fig. 254 c, Fig. 260 b), and thus the liquid appears as if lodged in the meshes of a delicate network of capillaries. After some months the liquid becomes clear, owing to the absorption of the products of disintegration. Around the patch of" softening the neuroglia proliferates and gives rise to sclerotic thickening, though this is seldom very marked. It is most apt to occur when the patch is small, the patient young, and the softening not due to arterial sclerosis. Often after weeks or months no considerable proliferation is discoverable, the softened patch being surrounded by a zone in which the nerve-elements are in process of degeneration and the tissue accordingly more or less interspersed with granule-cells. The vessels within the softened patch become in part obliterated. Cellular and fibrous hyperplasia sometimes takes place in the pial sheaths both of the collapsed and of the permeable vessels. When haemorrhage accompanies the ischaemic softening the products of disintegration of the extravasated blood mingle with those of the nerve-substance and give the patch a red, yellow, rusty, or brown tint. The process is then described as red or yellow softening. The mass thus contains pigment-granule cells, and after a time flakes of yellow or brown pigment and occasionally crystals of haematoidin are deposited in the surrounding tissue. On ischaemic softening see Eisenlohr (Arch. f. Psych, ix 1878, on acute affections of the medulla and pons), Klebs (Prag. mod. Woch. 1879). On hyaline degeneration of cerebral vessels see Wedl ( Wiener Sitzungsbcr. xliii 1863), Arndt (Virch. Arch. vol. 49), Lubimoff (ibid. vol. 57), Benedikt (ibid. vols. 64, 72), Kolessnikow (ibid. vol. 85), Neelsen (Arch. d. Heilk. xvn 1876), Otto (Arch. f. Psych, xvi, on aneurysms of the vessels of the cord), and references in Art. 636. 643. The size of a patch of softening depends on that of the vascular territory which has been deprived of blood, and consequently