THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXX. 110 bronchial system. Here as elsewhere the affection begins with the formation of grey cellular nodules (Fig. 216), which project some- what above the surface. These caseate and break down, and in this way small ulcers (d) are formed, whose floor and edges are usually covered with a whitish necrotic film and surrounded by a zone of hyperaemia. The disintegration of the infiltrated margins of the ulcer steadily advances, and the ulcer grows and coalesces with others, so that at length large irregularly-shaped erosions are formed which some- times extend to the cartilages of the bronchial wall. In the smaller tubes we frequently find the entire wall invaded and ulcerated away. Syphilitic inflammation of the bronchi is not often seen * it presents the same appearances as in the trachea and larynx. Extensive loss of substance is occasionally caused by it; as recovery takes place coarse puckered cicatrices are formed, and these may give rise to notable contraction and distortion of the bronchi. The bronchi are provided with a stratified epithelium, consisting of flat basal cells, transitional cells, and columnar cells. Some of the latter are ciliated cylindrical cells, others are mucus-producing goblet-cells, which in catarrhal conditions undergo mucoid degeneration. The capillaries of the mucous membrane empty themselves chiefly into the pulmonary veins, not into the bronchial veins: to this fact is due the readiness with which the membrane becomes engorged when the pulmonary circulation is overloaded (Kuttner, Virch. Arch. vol. 73). The tissue of the bronchial wall contains lymphoid elements, and in the larger bronchi these are in places aggregated into groups lying between the muscular coat and the cartilages : in this way lymphadenoid nodules are formed which look not unlike tubercles. References :—Frankenhauser, Bau der Tracheebronchialschleimhaut St Petersburg 1879 ; J. Arnold, Virch. Arch. vol. 80 ; Kolliker, Zur Kenntniss d. Baues d. Lunge Wurzburg 1881; Rossbach, Ueber d. Schleimbildung in d. Luftwegen (Festschrift) "Wurzburg 1882; Riegel, Ziemssen's Cyclop, iv.; Weil, Gerhard?s Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. m; Sokoloff, Virch. Arch. vol. 68; Hamilton, Path, of bronchitis London 1883. Curschmann recently described (Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxn) under the name of ' exudative bronchiolitis' a peculiar form of bronchitis in which tough hyaline or greyish or yellowish coagula are formed, 05—1 mm. thick and 1—2 cm. long, and consisting of spiral or convoluted filaments and strings enclosing a variable number of cells. They are due to an exudative process affecting the bronchioles, which is neither simple catarrh nor croupous inflammation. According to Vierordt (Berl. klin. Woch. 1883) similar coagula are occasionally met with in other inflammatory affections, as in croupous pneumonia. In various forms of bronchitis, but especially in the croupous and exudative varieties, the secretion contains slender acicular colourless octa- hedra of various sizes, which are known as Leyden's crystals: they are probably identical with Charcot's crystals (compare Art. 260), and seem to consist of some substance containing mucin (Salkowski). Their occurrence is accidental, and it is possible that they are formed in or from lymphoid cells : they may form in the sputum after it has left the body (Ungar). References :—Peacock, Trans. Path. Soc. v 1854; Charcot, Gaz. hebdom. 47, 1860; Leyden and Salkowski, Virch. Arch. vol. 54; Zenker, Dent. Arch. f. klin. Med. xvni, xxxn; Curschmann, loc. cit.; Ungar, Cent. f.