THE THYROID GLAND. 187 ART. 621.] Absence of the thyroid is rare. More common anomalies are—abnormal smallness or absence of a lobe or of the isthmus, abnormal largeness, multiple lobes, and accessory glandular masses separate from the main mass and connected with the hyoid, the deeper parts of the trachea, the supraclavicular fossae, the interior of the larynx (P. Bruns), the aorta, or the posterior wall of the pharynx. In very rare instances the isthmus is found to pass between the trachea and the oesophagus. The most important of the morbid changes to which the thyroid is liable are those forms of enlargement of the whole gland or of particular parts of it included under the general term goitre, bronchocele or thyreocele (struma). The gland may be enlarged from birth and constitute a congenital goitre. The enlargement may be due to over- distension or telangiectatic dilatation of the vessels, to hypertrophy of the gland-tissue, to premature and excessive colloid deposit, to increase of the fibrous stroma, or to adenomatous growth. The hyperaemic enlargement is of course transient, but the other varieties persist. In later life also the thyroid may be enlarged by hyperaemic distension, constituting vascular goitre. The condition is not usually lasting, though it may become chronic. A second form named hypertrophic goitre is due to multiplication and enlargement of the normal cell-masses (Fig. 242 a) and follicles (b), or to increase of the normal colloid contents (c). In the first case we have parenchymatous or follicular or glandular goitre, in the second case colloid or gelatinous goitre. The new follicles arise (Wolfler) from unutilised glandular cells, either by direct multiplication and grouping into orderly masses, or by endogenous multiplication of individual cells. The Fig. 242. Goitre partly hypertrophic and partly colloid. {Alum-haematoxylin staining: x GO) a follicles filled with cells d capillaries b empty follicle c stroma with arteriole c colloid masses