CHAPTER C. ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION. 667. The degenerative processes which lead to atrophy and disappearance of the peripheral nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells correspond in their general course with the like processes in the brain and cord. In the first place fibres and cells may gradually dwindle and waste away without undergoing any appreciable change of structure. More frequently however the destruction is speedier and accom- panied with the various evidences of disintegration so often observed in the central organs. In the medullated fibres there appears first a turbidity and then a splitting up of the medullary sheath, leading to the formation of large and then of smaller fragments and droplets of myeline, until the whole sheath is reduced to globules or particles. The axis-cylinder and its primitive fibrils may in like manner break up into small fragments (Fig. 285 c), or swell up and become liquefied; though it must be remembered that the axis shows itself more resistent towards many kinds of injury than the medullary sheath. The sheath of Schwann usually remains intact, and even the so-called nerve-corpuscles or nuclei of the several segments persist also (Fig. 285 d d1 d2). When the medullary sheaths break up, extravasated leucocytes pick up the products of disintegration and form fat-granule cells which lie within the primitive sheaths or in the fibrous envelopes. Sometimes the cells of the connective tissue also become fatty. The single or clustered ganglion-cells occurring in the course of the nerves perish by swelling and liquefaction, by fatty change, or by simple atrophy. A medullated nerve which has lost its medullary sheath shrinks in volume and looks grey and translucent: if it is at the same time vascular its tint is greyish-red. The exact manner and extent of the degeneration of the nerve- elements depends on the nature of the injurious or destructive agent which is at work ; though in all degenerative processes there is one feature which is constant, namely the prompt extension of the change over all the portion of the nerve to the distal side of any point at which the axis-cylinder is completely interrupted.