ART. 639.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. 249 known. Ceci has recently (Transunti d. real, accad. dei Lincei v) called attention to the fact that they do not always give the iodine-reaction, while they are stained brown or black by perosmic acid, differing in this from ordinary amyloid substance. In their double-refracting power and in their reactions they resemble myeline, and Ceci suggests that they may consist of The question of the regeneration of the tissues of the central nervous system and especially of the cord has frequently been the subject of experimental enquiry. H. Muller experimented on lizards and fishes (Ueb. Regeneration d. Wirbelsciule u. d. Riickenmarkes Frankfort 1864), Masius and Vanlair (Mem. de Vaead. de Belgique xxi (1870)) on frogs, while Brown-Sequard {Gaz. me~d. 1849, '50, '51), Eichhorst and Naunyn (Arch. f. exp. Path, n), Dentan (Rech. sur la regeneration de la mobile epiniere In. Diss. Berne 1875), and Schiefferdecker (Virch. Arch. vol. 67) used dogs. Some of the results were negative, others pointed to functional and histo- logical regeneration of the severed cord. Nevertheless it cannot be considered as proved that this regeneration takes place in mammals. References on the behaviour of ganglion-cells and nerve-fibres in degenera- tion :—Virchow, Virch. Arch. vols. 10, 44, 50; Leyden, Klinik d. Riicken- markskr. 1874—76, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. I (1879); Obersteiner, Wiener med. Jahrb. in, rv (1879); Jahn, Arch. f. Pysch. viii; Zenker, Arch. f. Ophthalm. ii ; Muller, Beitr. z. path. Anat. d. Riickenmarkes Leipzig 1871; Charcot, Maladies du syst. nerv. Paris 1877—80, Diseases of the nervous system (New Syd. Soc.) London 1876—80; Meschede, Virch. Arch. vol. 34; Mobius, Schmidt's Jahrb. 190,193 (a summary of recent memoirs on nervous diseases); Wieger, Virch. Arch. vol. 78 (references on hyaline degeneration of cerebral vessels); Hadlich, ibid. vol. 46; Salvioli, Rivista clin. di Bologna 10, 1878; Roth, Virch. Arch. vol. 53; Friedlander, ibid. vol. 88. The last three authors refer specially to calcification of ganglion-cells either as an accompaniment of degeneration or as an independent affection. Virchow met with it chiefly as a consequence of concussion of the brain. On senile degenerative changes in the cells of the cortex see Kostjurin and Hess, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1886. 639. When a large area of nerve-tissue is destroyed the neuroglia is apt at the same time to undergo partial necrosis, or at least to show evidence of fatty degeneration in its tissue-cells (Fig. 253 e). In like manner the endothelium of the pia mater and of the blood-vessels may become fatty. When the destruction of tissue is less extensive the nerve-elements alone persist, while the neuroglia with its vessels and their supporting fibrous structures remain intact. After absorption of the products of disintegration of the nerve- elements the neuroglia of the white matter of the brain has the appearance of a network of anastomosing stellate cells (Fig. 254 66,). The fibrils of these cells are very fine, and in hardened sections at least have a granular appearance, which is most marked in recent preparations where the degeneration is not advanced. When the absorption of the nerve-tissue is incomplete, the meshes of the connective tissue contain particles of detritus and granule- carrying cells (Fig. 254 e). The white matter of the cord in degeneration resembles that of the brain (Fig. 255 B), but the network (c) of connective tissue which originally surrounded the parallel nerve-fibres appears much more regular and at the same time stouter. The meshes contain