ART. 531.] RENAL DEPOSITS DERIVED FROM THE BLOOD. 29 (from methaemoglobin) or a yellow or brownish-yellow tint (from bile-pigment). Deposits of amorphous and crystalline pigment appear to the eye as small reddish-brown to black, yellow, yellowish- brown, or yellowish-red spots and streaks. In adults these are most numerous about the cortex, in infants chiefly in the medulla about the neighbourhood of the papillae. A peculiar form of pigmentation, known as argyrosis or silver- staining, is due to the deposit of silver-particles in cases where preparations of the metal have been medicinally administered. The particles lie chiefly in the medullary zone, and give it a dark- grey tint. Small haemorrhages and pigmentary deposits cause no per- ceptible injury to the renal tissue. Larger haemorrhages and extensive deposits of methaemoglobin and pigment may give rise to obstruction of the tubules and degeneration of the epithelium. References:—Ponfick, Berl. klin. Woch. 17, 1876 and 46, 1877, Virch. Arch. vols. 62, 88 ; Lesser, ibid. vol. 79 ; Marchand, ibid. vol. 77 ; Neisser, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. I; Adams, Haemoglobinausscheidung in dm Nieren In. Diss. Berlin 1880; Bostrom, Ueb. d. Intoxication durch d. essbare Morchel Leipzig 1882, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxii; Lebedeff, Virch. Arch. vol. 91; Luchsinger, Pftiiger's Arch. vol. 11; Bohm, Arch. f. exp. Path, vi; Masius, In. Diss. Breslau 1882; Lichtheim, Sammlung klin. Vortrdge 134; Jacobi, Neio York Med. Rec. 11, 1879 ; Dreschfeld, Trans, internal, med. congress i London 1881; Afanassiew, and Boas, Arch. f. klin. Med. vi 1883, Virch. Arch. vol. 98. After transfusion of blood from another animal (Pandm, Ponfick), after severe burns (Ponfick, Lesser, Lichtheim), poisoning with the morel mushroom (Bostrom, Ponfick), and subcutaneous injection of glycerine (Luchsinger), haemoglobinuria has been observed ; and after poisoning with potassium chlorate methaemoglobinuria (Marchand, Lebedeff, Jacobi, Dreschfeld). According to the recent researches of Ponfick {Congress f. innere Medicin Wiesbaden 1883) haemoglobin is excreted not only by the glomeruli but also by the renal epithelium ; see also Adami (Journ. of Physiol. vi 1885). The obscure affection known as intermittent or paroxysmal haemoglo- binuria appears to be associated with no recognisable anatomical alteration of the kidney other than haemorrhagic and pigmentary infiltration and congestive hyperaemia. See the references in Art. 262; also Murri, Delia emoglobinuria da freddo Bologna 1880; Cohnheim, Allg. Path, n Berlin 1882; S. Mackenzie, Lancet 1, 1884; Dickinson, Renal and urinary affections in London 1885; Roberts, Urinary and renal diseases London 1885. 531. Uric acid, whether produced in normal or abnormal quantity (as in gout), may be deposited in the kidney in the solid form or as solid urates when the water excreted is incapable of holding it all in solution. This is especially apt to take place (according to VoiT and Hoffmann) when the urine becomes acid by fermentation, and acid sodium phosphate being present de- composes the alkaline urates of the urine to form basic phosphate. The deposit consists partly of uric acid, partly of urates and especially sodium urate: it takes the form of amorphous granular masses or of acicular crystals. These lie in the tubules, chiefly the collecting tubules, and partly in the connective tissue.