ART. 633.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN ARD SPINAL CORD. 231 new-born infant is about 3S5 grammes, that of a two-year-old child 1173 grammes. The brain-weight of an infant is therefore very large relatively to its body-weight, the proportion being about 14 : 100, while that of an adult is only 2'37 : 100 (Vierordt). Micrencephalia is usually apparent even at birth, but it becomes more obvious as the child developes: while the back part of the cranium remains stationary (microcephalia) the face grows apace and the disproportion becomes very marked. This aplasia of the brain is sometimes greater in one part than another, the anterior, lateral, or posterior region being in different cases the most stunted. As a rule however all parts are abnormally small. The gyri and sulci are generally ill-developed and abnormal in their arrangement. The subordinate or secondary sulci are usually the most defective, though cases occur in which some of the principal convolutions and fissures are entirely absent. The statistics of Vogt and Jensen show that the weight of the brain in microcephalic patients may fall to one-third or one-fourth of the normal. The cerebellum and cerebral axis like the hemispheres are liable to be dwarfed, though they are usually less so than the latter. C. Vogt thought that in micrencephalia we had an instance of atavism or reversion to an earlier developmental type in the Primates. The later researches of Aeby, Jensen, Klebs, Flesch, Virchow, Binswanger, and others have however shown that this view is untenable. Micrencephalia is an arrest or rather failure of development, an agenesis, due either to intrinsic causes or to injurious influences exerted on the embryo. It is accordingly very commonly found in association with other morbid alterations in the brain and other organs, and is partly a consequence and partly a concomitant of these. Thus the micrencephalic patient may also exhibit porencephalia or ventricular hydrocephalus. Fibrous thickenings of the pia mater in some cases indicate antecedent inflammatory disorder. Often too there is some malformation of the extremities due to some injurious intra-uterine pressure; and premature synostosis of the cranial sutures, synchondrosis of the basal bones, and coalescence or cohesion of the hemispheres are also not uncommon. Of these changes some, e.g. porencephalia, meningeal inflammation, and premature synostosis, must occasionally be regarded not as mere concomitants of the defective cerebral development but as the primary changes which have led to it. Less grave results of defective development are—abnormal smallness of particular lobes or gyri, and non-typical arrangement of the gyri associated with diminution (or occasionally increase) of their number. Thus in what has been called microgyria the surface of the hemispheres is thrown into a'multitude of puckered creases or folds like those of a shirt-frill, the brain as a whole being usually malformed. Very frequently too in brains otherwise