PYELITIS AND PYELONEPHRITIS. ART. 554.] 73 in the urine. As the urine accumulates and the ureters become dilated the bacteria find ready access to the pelvis of the kidney through these channels. Animal parasites, as well as vegetable, may induce inflammation in the pelvis and ureter. This is especially true of Bilharzia or Distoma haematobium (Art. 239), whose eggs are deposited and embryos hatched in the urinary tract. Eustrongylus gigas (Art. 231) is much less dangerous. All the forms of concretion described in Arts. 531 and 532 are capable of exciting more or less intense pyelitis. They give rise to continuous mechanical irritation, which in the case of the hard and spiny oxalate-calculi is often very great, and is not slight in the case of the other forms. They produce mischief in another way when they become impacted in the ureter and cause retention of urine as well as local lesions. 554. Pyelitis, set up in the various ways just described, varies much in its symptoms and course. In catarrhal inflammation the mucous membrane is red and swollen, often studded with small extravasations, and secreting a liquid abounding in epithelial cells or pus according to the stage of the disorder. The lymphadenoid tissue existing in variable quantity in the submucosa is often swollen, and appears in the form of grey nodular swellings in the reddened mucous membrane. In chronic cases ulceration and thickening takes place. When the inflammation is diphtheritic patches of the mucous membrane rapidly slough. Bacteria have a very destructive action, as the urine becomes alkaline owing to their multiplication in it, and the products of the decomposition corrode the inflamed tissue. Sooner or later the bacteria invade the renal parenchyma. According to Klebs they advance along the collecting tubes and tubules destroying the epithelium and exciting inflammation. As a result of this invasion the kidney swells up, often enormously, and looks as if soaked or sodden. At the same time in the cortex and medulla appear a number of small yellow patches surrounded by a zone of hyperaemia, which are simply small patches of suppuration. Purulent pyelitis thus gives rise to purulent pyelonephritis (or so-called ' surgical kidney'). The process may issue in induration, but more commonly the suppu- rating patches grow into large abscesses which burst into the pelvis of the kidney. Not infrequently abscesses form in the tissue immediately surrounding the kidney, and are called perinephritic abscesses. If the suppuration within the kidney goes on large pus-secreting cavities communicating with the renal pelvis are produced, and in extreme instances the whole of the kidney is thus destroyed, its place being occupied by a mere pus-containing sack. This condition is referred to as pyonephrosis. Parasitic pyelonephritis may be unilateral or bilateral; in the latter case it is usually more advanced on one side than on the other.