109 ART. 579.] THE BRONCHI. rrhoea. Sometimes the secretion decomposes and becomes foul- smelling under the influence of septic micro-organisms, and we have then foetid or putrid bronchitis. In all forms of bronchitis the mucous membrane is more or less densely infiltrated with cells: this is most marked however in the purulent or putrid forms, in which the infiltration extends even to the peribronchial tissue. The causes of bronchitis are very numerous, some of them acting through the inspired air, some through the blood. Foetid bronchitis is most frequently associated with dilatation of the bronchi (bronchiectasis) or with gangrene of the lung, but it also occurs independently of these. Croupous bronchitis is usually an accompaniment of croupous tracheitis, and is almost always due to the specific virus of diphtheria: it may however be set up in other ways, as for example by the aspiration of liquid from the mouth. In croupous pneumonia there is always a certain amount of croupous inflammation of the smaller bronchi. The mucous membrane is covered over with whitish films whose thickness (except in croupous pneumonia) is not great in any but the larger bronchi: in the smaller tubes mere specks and shreds of fibrin are formed, and as we pass to the finest bronchioles these gradually disappear and are replaced by catarrhal secretion. There is also a chronic fibrinous or plastic bronchitis in which from time to time firm coherent membranes form in the bronchi, and are coughed up as continuous tree-like casts of the ramifying tubes. Diphtheritic and gangrenous inflammation of the bronchial mucous membrane are rare. They are generally set up by gangren- ous or necrotic detritus coughed up from the lung, or by powerfully irritant matters which have been inspired. The inflammation thus induced is sometimes haemorrhagic, and patches of the mucous membrane and of the deeper structures of the bronchial wall become gangrenous and are thus destroyed. Tuberculous inflammation of the bronchi is a common accompaniment of tuberculous disease of the lung. It is usually Fig. 216. Tuberculosis of the bronchial mucous membrane. (x 25) a columnar epithelium c tubercle b fibrous tissue of the mucosa infil- d margin of a small tuberculous ulcer trated with leucocytes most marked in the smaller tubes communicating with the diseased region: in other cases it is diffused over the greater part of the