276 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. rily affecting a part of the region of the posterior columns, which with its associated secondary degenerations extends in the course of years over nearly the whole of that region. As to the cause of the first onset of the affection—whether it depends on some congenital or acquired weakness of the centripetal tracts, or on disordered nutrition from disturbance of the circula- tion—it is not easy to decide. The fact that some forms of tabes appear to be inherited or at least congenital (Friedreich) supports the former supposition, while the latter agrees with the observation that very frequently we find almost from the commencement of the disease like disorder of the optic, oculomotor, and trigeminal nerves, while simultaneously with its progress multiple patches of sclerosis appear in other parts of the brain and cord. When simultaneous degeneration of other systems of fibres takes place we can only suppose that the like weakness of organisation or disorder of nutrition is affecting them also. At least there is no ground for the theory that the imagined inflammatory process has extended by continuity from the primarily diseased posterior columns to other tracts. At present we cannot say anything as to the real nature of the exciting cause. Clinical observers mention a great variety of predisposing conditions, such as cold, over-exertion, sexual excess, etc. Fournier, Erb, Gowers, and others have lately laid special stress on syphilis as the commonest of all antecedents of tabes. If when the pathogenic agency is extrinsic the sensory tracts alone are affected, we must assume either that they have been congeni- tally weaker than the others, or that they are normally less able to resist certain forms of injury. The like difficulties arise in the case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Here also we are driven to conclude that the disease is a result of a localised degeneration occurring primarily in the region of the motor tract, perhaps also in the motor nuclei, and followed by a secondary degeneration along the course of the pyramidal fibres. This is the more likely inasmuch as the degeneration of the pyramidal tracts is most marked and typical when the degeneration affects chiefly the medulla oblongata; while a like degeneration beginning in the grey matter of the lumbar cord is not as a rule followed by any appreciable change in the pyramidal tracts (Art. 640). In some cases indeed (Ziegler) the medulla shows not only atrophy of the ganglion-cells of the grey nuclei but also patches of softening in the white matter of the pyramids: descending secondary degeneration may well start from the latter also. When portions of the white matter of the anterior root-zones and neighbouring lateral regions are affected as well as the pyramidal tracts, we may explain the apparent complication by assuming that fibres belonging to the anterior (uncrossed) pyra- midal tracts run through the anterior root-zones (Flechsig), as