CHAPTER LXVI. DISORDERS OF THE RENAL CIRCULATION. 522. Active hyperaemia or congestion of the kidneys is due either to increased pressure within the aorta, or to dilatation of the renal arteries. As the secretion of urine is in the main determined hy the pressure and velocity of the blood flowing through the glomeruli, congestion of the kidneys is accompanied by an increase of se- cretion. When one kidney is removed or rendered inactive by disease, the other carries on the urinary function unaided. This is of course possible only so long as its blood-supply is permanently increased. A kidney the demands on which are thus permanently increased presently becomes hypertrophied. This compensatory hypertrophy is usually most extreme in cases where the other kidney has failed in early youth; in such cases the normal bulk may be increased as much as twofold. The increase is due chiefly to an increase in the length and calibre of the tubules and to enlargement of the glomeruli, in part also to a multiplication of both these elements. It is said however that multiplication is observed only in cases where one kidney has been lost before birth or in infancy. Partial atrophy or destruction of a kidney may be followed by hyperaemia and consequent hypertrophy of the sound portion remaining. The epithelial cells of the dilated and elongated tubules are larger and more numerous than is normal. Keferences on compensatory hypertrophy of the kidneys :—Leichtenstern, Berl. klin. Woch. 24, 1881 ; Gudden, Virch. Arch. vol. 66; Beumer, ibid. vol. 72 ; Perls, ibid. vol. 56 ; Eibbert, ibid. vol. 88 ; Grawitz and Israel, ibid. vol. 77 ; Eppinger, Prag. med. Woch 36, 1879; Bostrom, Beitriige z. path. Anat. d. Niere Freiburg 1884. According to Leichtenstern the diameter of a normal glomerulus measures 135—225 micromm., that of a convoluted tubule 49—79 micromm., and that of a straight tubule 26—49 micromm. In hypertrophied kidneys the first measurement rises to 188—402, the second to 49—141, the third to 49—89 micromm.