40 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVIII. parts which become fatty. The droplets of oil met with in the meshes of the tissue are for the most part derived by absorption from the affected tubules. Keferences :—Bartels, loo. ext.; Weigert, loc. cit.; Cornil and Brault, Journ. de Vanat. xvm (1882), Practitioner xxxn (1882); Charcot, Legons sur les maladies die foie et des reins Paris 1877 ; Johnson, Med. chir. Trans, xlii (1853); Whipham and others, Trans. Path. Soc. x, xiii, xix ; Rickards, Brit. Med. Journ. 2, 1883. 537. Amyloid degeneration of the kidney often appears in what is known as the " large white kidney;" it may however in other cases present an appearance that has little in common with this form. Slight degrees of the affection frequently give rise to no characteristic change. The cortex may be more or less red ac- cording to the quantity of blood it contains; but it is usually paler and softer than in health, and somewhat yellow. If the change is greater the cortex is generally pale and anaemic, with a greyish or yellowish tint, and more or less swollen. The colour is also rather spotty, numerous small white opaque patches being sprinkled over a greyish-white translucent ground. The interlobular veins, if distended with blood, may cause the cortex to be streaked with red. The glomeruli are seen as pale or reddened nodules, occa- sionally somewhat translucent. The medullary zone is usually streaked with red, but it is not infrequently pale. The surface of the kidney is smooth, or here and there slightly granular and shrunken. In a third variety, where the amyloid change has reached its highest intensity, the kidney is also pale and spotted with white or yellow, but its consistence is much denser and firmer than in the second variety. On section a number of semi-translucent patches and streaks appear, looking like bits of boiled bacon, and scattered through the medulla as well as the cortex. In extreme cases these may coalesce into continuous areas. Between the soft and the hard (or lardaceous) amyloid kidney there are of course many transitional forms. The white patches are due to fatty degeneration, which always accompanies the amyloid change, but varies much in its extent. Simple amyloid change gives the renal tissue the semi-trans- lucent lardaceous aspect, which is well seen in the larger con- tinuous patches. It affects first of all the glomerular capillaries, whose walls become thickened and homogeneous (Fig. 208 b). At first the altered patches are scattered irregularly, but soon they coalesce so that at length the entire glomerulus is transformed into an aggregation of homogeneous flakes or blocks. When the de- generation is complete the vessels become impermeable. After the glomeruli the parts most affected are the walls of the vasa afferentia (i) and interlobular arteries, and those of the vessels of the medullary zone. Lastly the change may extend over the