280 [CHAP. XCIV. THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. striata, the pons, the crura cerebri, and the dentate nucleus. Often too the optic, olfactory, and trigeminal nerves, and the roots of the spinal nerves, are found diseased. In the case of the brain we now and then find that a large portion of the roof of the lateral ventricle is transformed into grey sclerotic tissue several milli- metres thick. Multiple sclerosis of the cortex is comparatively rare. 650. In most cases when the grey patches of multiple sclerosis come under observation the tissue-change is well advanced, and appears to be due to increase of the neuroglia and consequent compression and atrophy of the nerve-elements. This late appear- ance gives us however no certain knowledge as to the origin and course of the affection. Even when the increase by hyperplasia of the connective tissue is the most obvious feature in the ultimate result, it does not follow that the change began with such hyperplasia. In fact there is no doubt that in many cases the disease begins as a degeneration, dependent primarily on a disturbance of nutrition, and first affecting the nerve-elements. Cases sometimes occur in which the typical grey sclerotic patches are accompanied in the brain and cord by others which are mottled with white, or uniformly white and opaque, or even pale-yellow; and these manifest on the one hand all grades of degenerative change, on the other an obvious proliferation and hyperplasia of the neuroglia (Art. 638, Fig. 253). In teased preparations we find not only abundance of nerve-detritus and granule-cells, but also numerous neuroglia-cells whose protoplasm is abundant and nuclei multi- plied : and as we have seen (Arts. 638, 639) there is no doubt that degenerative changes in the nerve-elements may be followed by multiplication of neuroglia-cells and formation of sclerotic patches. The changes we are considering are certainly often of a non- inflammatory kind, being simply the results of disordered nutrition due to change or impurity in the blood, to thickening or degenera- tion of the vessel-walls, or to disturbance of the circulation. It is at any rate remarkable how frequently we find morbid changes in the vessel-walls in connexion with sclerotic patches. Once how- ever a sclerotic hyperplasia has begun it may extend to contiguous parts without any antecedent degeneration. Though we are thus able in a number of cases to refer the sclerotic process to a primary degeneration, it does not follow that this is the invariable rule. Both in the brain and in the cord inflammatory processes may be set up which after they have caused the destruction of a certain amount of nerve-substance come to an end by what we might call sclerotic cicatrisation. When a patch of inflammatory degeneration is formed and the acute changes have ceased, absorption of the detritus and exudation takes place exactly as in the case of ischaemic degeneration or