220 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCI. A brief obstruction to the inflow or outflow of blood is sufficient to give rise to grave disorder of the nervous functions, and in like manner an excess of carbonic acid or a deficiency of oxygen may give rise to serious irritation or paralysis of particular parts. When such disturbances of circulation or nutrition reach a certain degree of gravity they are apt to be followed by transient or permanent degenerative changes in the nervous structures. Such degenerations form the basis of an important group of diseases of the brain and cord. In many acute febrile disorders disturbances of the cerebral functions is a symptom. This disturbance is due partly to over- heating of the tissues, partly to disorder of the circulation, partly to impurities and changes in the composition of the blood. The fact that permanent lesions of the brain and cord are comparatively rare sequelae of such fevers shows that nerve-substance has a remark- able power of resistance to a number of injurious agencies, that in other words the brain and cord like other organs can be permanently injured only by agencies of particular kinds. That these agencies have about them something special is made likely by the fact—that many poisons when introduced into the blood exert a marked specific action on the nerve-cells and nerve-fibres, while others have no action whatever on these structures. Every-day experience shows that personal predisposition plays an unusually important part in the genesis of central nervous diseases. This predisposition is usually inherited, seldom acquired. According to Westphal in 50 per cent, of insane patients the occurrence of disease of the central nervous system in some blood- relation of the ascending line can be demonstrated. It is not actual disease which is thus transmitted from parent to child but only a liability to disease, a lack of resisting-power, in consequence of which influences (unable in a normal individual to produce any abiding disturbance) are capable of setting up disorders of function and often alterations of structure. The morbid influences may be of any kind, and may reach the central nervous system either by way of the circulation or as morbid stimuli by way of the nerves. Predisposition to nervous disease is usually a matter beyond the scope of anatomical research, but cases do occur in which the inherited or at least congenital pathological condition manifests itself as a defect of development in the central nervous system. In other words malformations of the brain are very commonly associated with defective brain-function, and constitute a predis- position to further nervous disease. Inherited and acquired predisposition is of special importance in connexion with diseases of the central nervous system that are chronic. It has little to do with the genesis of acute and particularly of inflammatory disorders, which are as a rule set up by irritant matters reaching the nerve-tissues through the circula- tion.