ART. 526.] DISORDERS OF THE RENAL CIRCULATION. 19 spherules (Fig. 203 / h). Some of these are stratified, others uustratified, and they may be so numerous as to distend the tubule into a small cyst (h). So far as can be made out with the microscope these homogeneous masses are a colloid product of the renal epithelium, which is produced either in the form of droplets that afterwards unite, or by a transformation of the entire cell when loosened from its place and carried to another part of the tubule (g). The dissolved albumen which flows through the tubule as the degeneration of the glomerulus sets in may have something to do with its formation. When the lumen of a tubule becomes dis- tended with these colloid masses the epithelium becomes flattened and compressed. Larger colloid masses or agglomerations are visible to the naked eye as translucent yellowish or brownish jelly-like granules, from the size of a pin's head to that of a pea. In rare cases like masses are formed within the Bowman's capsule of the malpighian bodies. The fibrous tissue of the atrophied region is not increased, but not infrequently there appears to be an accumulation of lymphoid cells in its meshes. It is questionable whether this is an inflam- matory process; the impression conveyed is rather that the spaces left free by the collapse of the secreting structures have been partially filled up by indifferent cells. Cohnheim and Mendelson (Amer. Journ. med. sciences Oct. 1883) have shown that in pyrexia the kidney becomes markedly anaemic from contrac- tion of the renal vessels. Overbeck (Wiener Sitzungsber. xlvii) and Hermann {ibid, xxxvi, xlv) have demonstrated that albuminuria results either from a short interruption or a considerable diminution of the circulation through the kidney. The albuminuria persists for some time after the circulation again becomes normal, and Cohnheim thence argues that the cause is to be sought for in an altera- tion of the glomerular epithelium. The vascular loops of the glomeruli are covered with a continuous layer of epithelial cells, which must be regarded as glandular in character, and make the glomerulus in effect a secreting gland. The secretion remains normal only so long as these cells are intact. The great majority of the nuclei seen in the section of a glomerulus belong to these epithelial cells. The actual capillary-walls are either devoid of nuclei or possess very few indeed. 526. The simple atrophy of the glomeruli and tubules described in the last Article is met with in an uncomplicated form as a senile phenomenon : it is seldom absent in the kidney of old age. When the atrophied portions lie near the surface of the kidney they appear as small scar-like depressions, the surrounding parts of the parenchyma being somewhat redder than usual. Simple atrophy of the secreting structures is also extremely common as an accompaniment of the most various renal affections. It occurs for example in embolic occlusion of the renal arteries, in the various forms of nephritis, and in hydronephrosis. We see it however in its purest form and greatest extension in the 2—2