ART. 640.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. 253 Zeitschr. f. vriss. Zool. xvm, xix, xx, xxin, xxv; Ranvier, Comptes rendtis lxxvii (1873), Histologie du syst. nerv. Paris 1878, Arch, de physiol. xv 1883 (structure of neuroglia); Golgi, Eivista clinica Nov. 1871, Arch. xtal. de biologic in, iv; Schwalbe, Handb. d. Augenheilk. (Grafe and Sdmisch) i, Lehrb. d. JVeurol. Erlangen 1881; Friedmann, Jahrbucher f. Psych. 1883; Ewald and Kuhne, Per A. d. nat. med. Vereines zu Heidelberg i; Duke Karl Theodor of Bavaria, Virch. Arch. vol. 69; J. Weiss, Med. Jahrbucher 1878; Turner, Joumi. of Anat. and Physiol, xni 1879 (descriptive summary of recent memoirs); Schopfhagen, Jahrbuch f. Psych, in (1881); Klein and Noble Smith, Atlas of Histology London 1880; Quain's Anatomy n London 1882; Hollis, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xvii, xvm, xix. 640. Simple atrophy. This term is applied to those changes in the brain and cord which are characterised by dwindling and partial disappearance of the nerve-elements without any marked textural alteration either preceding or following. The atrophy is either general or at least extensive, or it is confined to particular parts of the brain and cord. Atrophy of the cerebrum is the commonest example of the extensive form; the whole or the greater part of the hemispheres diminishing more or less in volume, the gyri becoming narrower, and the sulci with the subarachnoid spaces wider and filled with liquid. Not infrequently the ventricles also are dilated. Atrophy of the cerebellum or of the medulla and cord is much less common: cases are however recorded in which the cerebellum was so shrunken that its volume was less than half the normal and its gyri were almost filiform. In most instances the atrophy is not uniformly diffused, but is most evident in one or two of the lobes or in particular convolutions. The atrophied parts are usually firmer and denser than the healthy parts. Atrophy of the pons, of the medulla, and of the cord, is sometimes symmetrical, sometimes unsymmetrical, and may affect the nerve-tracts as well as the ganglion-cells. The forms of local atrophy most amenable to microscopical investigation are those which are met with in the anterior horns of the cord and in the motor nuclei of the medulla (bulbar nuclei), and which form the anatomical basis of certain nervous diseases variously named by clinical observers. The anterior horns (Fig. 257) of the cord consist of a tissue whose characteristic elements are large multipolar ganglion-cells (a) and numerous tracts of medullated nerve-fibres (b), whence the anterior roots (6t) of the spinal nerves take their origin. Between these elements is a complex texture of stout and slender nerve- fibres (d), the whole being embedded in a delicate nucleated neuroglia (e). In simple atrophy of the anterior horns (Fig. 258) the ganglion-cells and then the nerve-fibres are lost; so far as can be made out they simply dwindle and disappear. The ganglion-cells (a) lose their processes and shrink up into small pigmented lumps: when these perish nothing remains but a few grains of pigment,