300 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. At the boundary between living and dead tissue a more or less intense inflammation (c) sets in after a few hours, and this by degrees constitutes a zone of demarcation. The inflammatory process advances mainly along the vessels (c) entering from the pia mater, and in a few days the inflamed tissue softens and liquefies, while the inflammatory cellular infiltration extends more and more into the necrotic patch (b). The latter also liquefies and is absorbed, though months or years may pass before all the detritus is carried off. Around the inflamed region the nerve-substance suffers from impaired nutrition, and a considerable portion of it undergoes degeneration (d), indicated by swelling, fatty change, fragmenta- tion and disintegration of the ganglion-cells (e) and nerve-fibres. The inflammatory zone is thus surrounded by a broad zone of degeneration. During the first few weeks the inflammatory zone is chiefly made up of vessels, small round-cells, larger formative cells, and fat-granule and pigment-carrying cells. The latter are always very abundant so long as absorption of the products of disintegra- tion and extravasation goes on, the fat-granule cells being visible also in the zone of degeneration. After some weeks or months new fibrous tissue is gradually elaborated, plainly starting from the vessels that enter the inflamed region from the pia mater: the necrotic region is thus more and more surrounded and at length filled up with new-formed fibrous tissue. The fibres are sometimes close-set and wavy, sometimes loose and areolar, and are the product of the fibroblasts derived from the extravasated leucocytes and the connective-tissue cells of the pia mater and the vessel-sheaths. This cicatrisation is a very slow process, and after months or years the scar may still contain multitudes of round-cells. The encapsuled necrotic patch only disappears after the lapse of many months, and the degenerative changes external to the inflamed region persist as long or longer. Rarely does the degeneration result in fibrous hyperplasia and sclerosis, though when this happens the sclerosis is apt to be very extensive. In like manner the fibrous thickening of the wounded pia mater often extends over a large area. This is the process of repair in comparatively small wounds: it is of course modified if there has been extensive laceration of the brain-tissue. As we mentioned in Art. 645 in speaking of contu- sions, the development of fibrous tissue is apt to be slight and incomplete, and the process takes the form of progressive ischae- mic softening. This account of the repair of the wounds of the brain is based partly on observations made by the author on human injuries, partly on experiments made for him by Kammerer upon rabbits. The process of healing can be readily followed in punctured wounds made under antiseptic precautions with recently heated needles. The oldest wound examined in a patient was 21 months old, and was due to a knife-stab penetrating the ascending-frontal