32 THE UEINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVII. components of the blood may escape from their vessels which normally are held back. In like manner substances may escape from the intertubular capillaries into the tubules. This is most notably the case with regard to the serum-albumen of the blood, which in morbid conditions passes in greater or less amount into the urine (albuminuria). This albumen comes from the glomeruli in the soluble form ; but within the tubules it may coagulate and thus give rise to granular or homogeneous casts, especially in the region of the loops of Henle, but often in other parts also. These casts are known as hyaline casts or cylinders, and there is no doubt that they may consist exclusively of transuded serum-albumen, though they are also formed in other ways. In many affections of the kidney, especially those of an inflam- matory kind, the renal epithelium degenerates or breaks down and desquamates. Moreover we know that from the glomeruli and tubules there escape not only serum-albumen but also white blood- cells. In many morbid affections therefore the tubules contain not only soluble albumen but also albumen derived directly from the protoplasm of cells, and this albumen like the other may take part in the formation of tube-casts. In the first place, the desquamated epithelial cells become agglutinated into casts of the tubules: these have received the name of epithelial casts. So also the granular albuminoid and fatty products of their disintegration may in like manner give rise to fatty casts. Again the epithelial cells and leucocytes or their albuminous detritus may become transformed and fused into compact hyaline masses, or homo- geneous masses may escape from the bodies of the degenerating cells and coalesce into homogeneous cylinders. Finally, both epithelial cells and extra vasated leucocytes dissolve in the albumin- ous urine flowing through the tubules, and in this form play their part in the production of casts. The granular casts derived from blood-disintegration have already been spoken of (Art. 530). Tube-casts may in certain circumstances be washed out of the tubules, and so escape from the kidney. The greater number how- ever remain in situ, and are either redissolved or become more firm and dense so as somewhat to resemble wax (waxy casts). These occasionally give the reaction of the amyloid substance. In addition to these casts, formed at least in part from tran- suded albumen, we may have homogeneous cylinders which are purely epithelial in their origin. These have been described in Art. 525 (Fig. 203) as colloid casts. References on the formation of tube-casts : Bayer, Arch, d. Heilk. 1868 ; Axel Key, Schmidt's Jahrb. vol. 114 (1867); Burkhart, Die Harncylinder Berlin 1874 : Axel Key and Langhans, Virch. Arch. vol. 76; Bartels, Zicmsserfs Cyclop, xv ; Weissgerber and Perls, Arch. f. cxp. Path, vi; Finlayson, Brit. For. Med. Rev. Jan. 1876 (on tube-casts without albu- minuria) ; Rovida, Moleschott's Untersuch. xi; Huppert, Virch. Arch. vol. 59 ;