THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. 272 usually (unless the degeneration is universal) most marked in the lumbar and dorsal regions, though cases occur in which the cervical region is the most affected. The degeneration ascends within the columns to beyond the obex of the calamus scriptorius and ceases about the level of the striae acusticae (Fig. 248, Art. 629). When the degeneration of the posterior columns is well- advanced their outer surface assumes a grey or greyish-red tint, and on section the tissue appears quite grey and translucent. At the same time the columns appear somewhat shrunken. The posterior nerve-roots are always more or less atrophic and grey, the atrophy being greatest when the general degeneration is most advanced. The posterior root-fibres within the cord are likewise atrophic; and not alone those which pass forward through the substance of the posterior columns but also those which traverse the posterior root-zones. In rare cases some of the ganglion-cells of the grey matter are destroyed. This degeneration of the posterior columns with the accompany- ing changes in the posterior roots is usually an independent and uncomplicated malady: but cases occur in which simultaneously or subsequently portions of the lateral columns also undergo degene- ration (Fig. 263 d). The portions most apt to be invaded are the posterior (pyra- midal tracts) and the marginal (direct cerebellar tracts, Fig. 264 A;): sometimes the marginal sclerosis extends right round to the anterior columns. A second form of primary degeneration is that known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It is essentially a degeneration of the lateral columns extending over the whole length of the cord, and accompanied by atrophy of the ganglion-cells of the anterior horns and the equivalent grey nuclei in the medulla. The degeneration of the white matter is marked by atrophy, disintegration, and disappearance of nerve-fibres, together with increase of connective tissue, though the sclerotic induration is not usually so extreme as in the corresponding affection of the posterior columns. Only when the disease has lasted a very long time does the new fibrous tissue become dense and compact. In many cases the degeneration is limited to the lateral pyramidal tracts (Fig. 265 b): and thus where these tracts have a well-marked contour on section, namely in the cervical region, the disease is also sharply defined ; where they are interpenetrated by other systems of fibres and extend forwards, as in the dorsal region, it is difficult to make out the exact extent of the disease. If the pyramidal tracts have decussated completely at the medulla, the degeneration is confined to the lateral columns (Fig. 265 b); but if some of the strands are undecussated then the anterior (or uncrossed) pyramidal tracts are also affected. In other cases again the short tracts in the anterior-lateral columns variously described as principal tracts (Flechsig) and anterior root-zones (Charcot)