144 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXV. function exposed to the access of numerous impurities. We all inhale a certain amount of dust with the air of the street or of the house, while in certain occupations the amount of dust necessarily inhaled is very considerable. Workers in stone of all kinds, masons, bricklayers, potters, inhale mineral and earthy dust; workers in metal such as grinders, gilders, braziers, typefounders, and so on, inhale metallic particles; millers, colliers, coal-heavers, chimney- sweeps, bakers, cabinet-makers, rope-makers, cigar-makers, and workers in spinning and weaving mills, live in an atmosphere charged with dust of vegetable origin. Brush-makers, upholsterers, barbers, cloth-dressers, and hat-makers breathe air containing animal dust; and glass-work ers, street-sweepers, etc. dust of various other kinds. A large proportion of the dust thus inhaled is caught in the air- passages, but some of it especially in deep inspiration is carried into the parenchyma of the lung. Many of the particles adhere to the walls of the alveoli; others are promptly conveyed into the lymphatic channels communicating with the alveoli, and thence are carried by the peribronchial and interlobular lymphatics into the lymphatic glands at the root of the lung. When a considerable number of dust-particles reach the parenchyma of the lung they set up a slight inflammation manifested by emigration of white blood-cells from the vessels and the desquamation of some of the alveolar epithelial cells. The extravasated cells take up the foreign particles, sometimes in such abundance that they have been fitly termed dust-cells (Langhans, von Ins). They may be carried into the bronchioles and bronchi and are then ejected with the sputa. Much the larger number of them are however carried into the lymphatics. Within the lymphatics certain kinds of dust, such as chalk- particles, are dissolved. Insoluble dusts are either carried into the bronchial glands or are deposited in the walls of the lymphatic vessels. This deposit takes place wherever lymphatics occur, that is in the interalveolar, interlobular, subpleural, pleural, circumvascular, and peribronchial fibrous tissues, especially in those parts where aggregations of lymphoid elements are normally met with. The particles lie either free in the tissues or enclosed in rounded, fusiform, or stellate cells. Coloured dust gives rise to pigmentation of the lung, while the larger grains appear as sandy or gritty deposits. Some forms of dust-deposit, in particular those which give rise to marked change in the lung, have received special names. The most frequent as well as the best-known form is that due to the inhalation of soot or coal-dust, by which the lung becomes dark-grey or black ; it is variously described as anthracosis or pneumonoconiosis anthracotica (/coz/i? dust, av6pa% coal), and the lung as collier's or miner's lung. This form of pigmentation is very common, and is seldom entirely absent in adult lungs. It must however be remembered that all