141 ART. 598.] PULMONARY INFLAMMATIONS IN GENERAL. gangrenous tissue is transformed into a dark-brown dirty mass, changing presently into a greenish-black foul-smelling sanious pulp or pus: this at first contains shreds and fragments of pulmonary tissue, but these too at length dissolve and disappear. The gangrenous pus contains various chemical products of disintegration of albumen and fat, such as leucin, tyrosin, margarin, volatile fatty acids, especially butyric, sulphuretted hydrogen, ammonia, etc. The more solid contents include granular detritus, pus-corpuscles, pigment, shreds of lung-tissue, oil-globules, margarin-needles, crystals of triple-phosphate, and various micro-organisms. The latter are the prime cause of the chemical decomposition and of the disintegration of the pulmonary tissue. According to Filehne a certain ferment is formed by them which acts like trypsin, and in alkaline solutions quickly dissolves elastic tissue. Caseation most frequently occurs as a sequel of tuberculous inflammation, though it is also not entirely absent in other forms. It would thus appear to depend on some peculiar property of the exciting cause of the inflammation, though under special conditions it may occur in connexion with inflammations which usually terminate in a more favourable way. So far as mere morbid anatomy is concerned we may say that caseation takes place most frequently in inflammations which are characterised by dense cellular infiltration of the parenchyma of the lung and accompanied by extensive alteration of the walls of the lymphatics and blood- vessels. The latter feature is most marked in tuberculous inflam- mation, and thus the anatomical and the aetiological characters are in this regard largely co-extensive. In caseous degeneration the exudation within the alveoli necroses, and is in the first instance transformed into a fibrinous and granular mass (Fig. 227). In other cases it appears homogeneous, or the extravasated cells lose their nuclei and break down into fatty granular detritus. As a rule the alveolar walls also become speedily necrotic and caseous. The vessels are blocked up, the nuclei of the tissue-cells disappear, the contours of the tissue-fibres become indistinct, and at length the pulmonary tissue becomes granular or homogeneous and structureless, almost or altogether indistinguishable from the caseous exudation proper. When the walls of the larger vessels have been much infiltrated they too become caseous in like manner. The last and not uncommon termination of a pulmonary inflammation is in the formation of new fibrous tissue and cirrhosis. New fibrous tissue is developed when the cellular infiltration of the parenchyma of the lung is long-continued, the circulation at the same time remaining ample for the nutrition of the part. In such conditions large formative or fibroblastic cells make their appearance first in the alveolar walls (Fig. 228 a) and in the circumvascular, peribronchial, and interlobular connective tissue,