ART. 523.] DISORDERS OF THE RENAL CIRCULATION. 15 The weight of the two kidneys (Thoma, Untersuch. iiber die Bestandtheile des Korpers Leipzig 1882) is in new-born infants about 23 grammes, at six months 44 gin., at twelve months 62 gm., at twenty years 285 gm., at twenty- five 304 gm. In the case of a healthy adult the two kidneys may differ in weight by as much as 30 to 40 gm. 523. Passive hyperaemia or engorgement of the kidney is usually the result of some general disturbance of the circulation ; it is much less often due to local causes. Affections of the heart and lungs give rise to the former, compression and thrombosis of the vena cava or of the renal veins to the latter. Renal thrombosis most frequently occurs in infants of a few weeks old who die of general marasmus. Compression may be due to the gravid uterus or to an abdominal tumour. If the outflow of blood from the kidneys is suddenly stopped, they become engorged and greatly swollen, assuming a dark brown or purple hue. Very soon haemorrhages make their appearance, not only in the cortex and beneath the capsule but also in the medulla, Bowman's capsules and the urinary tubules becoming distended with blood. If the obstruction of the renal veins is gradual, the blood in part finds its way into certain small vessels which pass from the kidney into the capsule and empty themselves into vessels com- municating with the phrenic, lumbar, and suprarenal veins. In this way there may be little or no haemorrhage within the kidney but only oedema, very few red blood-cells escaping from the vessels. If however the obstruction is great and persistent the renal tissues become fatty and necrotic, and presently disintegrate en- tirely. When the engorgement is less extreme, as in cases of uncom- pensated cardiac lesion, the swelling of the kidney is but slight, but its colour becomes dark purple or cyanotic. If this condition persists for any length of time the kidney becomes remarkably dense and firm; at the same time the cortex becomes pale or greyish-red with darker streaks corresponding to the course of the veins. This change is referred to as cyanotic induration. When the engorgement is still recent the vessels are uniformly distended with blood, the veins and capillaries being often greatly dilated. Within the capsule of many of the malpighian bodies and in the lumen of the urinary tubules appears a quantity of liquid, which on boiling yields a granular precipitate of albumen and often contains a few red blood-cells. In some of the tubes lie colourless transparent casts of the lumina, the so-called hyaline tube-casts or cylinders. These are simply masses of albumen which have escaped in liquid form with the watery transudation from the glomeruli, and have become solid within the tubules. Some of the epithelial cells, chiefly those of Henle's loops, contain brown and yellow and occasionally crystalline pigment-granules, derived from the colouring-matter of the blood-cells which have