106 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXIX. to their transformation into fibrous tissue : it is however worthy of remark that sometimes no degenerative change is observed even when the compression has been extreme. Perforation of the trachea, apart from mechanical injury, is most frequently due to cancerous and sarcomatous ulceration of the oesophagus or thyroid gland, and to aortic aneurysm, peri- tracheal abscess, or suppurating lymphatic glands : it is much less commonly caused by ulceration within the trachea. In cases of aneurysm the thinned-out wall of the sack pushes in the inter- annular spaces; and this is observed also in the case of carcino- matous and sarcomatous and of goitrous tumours. Foreign bodies which become impacted in the trachea in general speedily set up inflammation and ulceration. Wounds of the trachea are repaired by cicatricial tissue: regeneration of cartilage takes place only to a very slight extent. Eeferences :—Eppinger, loc. cit.; Cruveilhier, Traite1de I'anat. path, n ; Gruber, Virch. Arch. vol. 47 ; Virohow, Krankhafte Geschwulste in; Demme and Furst, Gerhardt's Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. ill; Weil, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xiv (1873); Rose, Langenbeck's Arch. f. klin. Chir. xxn ; Biegel, Ziemssen's Cyclop, iv ; Eldridge, Amer. Journ. med. sci. 1879 (sacculations); Schottelius, Die Kehlkopfknorpel Wiesbaden 1879 (repair of wounds); Bristowe, St Thomas's Hosp. Reports in; Volkmann, Cent. f. d. vied. Wiss. 1882. 578. The inflammations of the trachea have few special features, and are frequently associated with inflammatory affections of the larynx. Catarrh is sometimes due to non-specific irritation, sometimes it is a complication of infective diseases such as measles, small-pox, whooping-cough, influenza, syphilis, etc. Laryngitis or bronchitis (Art. 579) usually accompanies this latter form. Croupous inflammation is most common in diphtheria, and is characterised by the formation of a white fibrinous false membrane. Diphtheritic denudation or ulceration of the mucous membrane is not common. Miliary tuberculosis of the tracheal mucous membrane is rare. Chronic tuberculosis is more frequent: it gives rise to extensive subepithelial infiltrations, which afterwards break down and form ulcers of various sizes. Sometimes it extends to the deeper struc- tures, laying bare and partially destroying (by perichondritis) the cartilaginous rings. In rare cases the greater part of the mucous membrane is destroyed by ulceration. Syphilitic disease produces lesions resembling those of the larynx; indeed it frequently extends from the latter downwards; it may however appear in the trachea independently. In this case it is usually deep-seated, and is often associated with syphilis of the bronchi. The specific inflammation may give rise to extensive destruc- tion of tissue, extending to the cartilaginous structures: the cica- trices which result often cause by their contraction very remarkable distortion and stenosis of the tube, which may be beset in every direction with coarse fibrous bands. The edges of the syphilitic