THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. 284 Fig. 272. Maeginal scleeosis of the cervical cord. (Diagrammatic: x 3) a sclerotic marginal zone of the pia mater. In the cord we may have a marginal sclero- sis of this kind (Fig. 272), exactly resembling in its structure the scle- roses we have already described. In the cortex of the cerebrum the induration is seldom great, and it is only on microscopical examination that the stellate neuroglia-cells and their fibrous processes are seen to be more abundant and more obvious than in the normal tissue (Art. 656, Fig. 273). Only when the antecedent atrophy has been very extensive is the hardening of the surface so palp- able as to be recognisable by the finger. This induration is secondary, but there is also a form of primary hyperplasia of the neuroglia which sometimes extends over considerable portions of the central nervous system. In the general enlargement of the brain known as cerebral hypertrophy (Art. 633) the connective tissue is said to undergo a notable increase, giving the tissue a leathery or rubber-like consistency. This increase is more obvious in some peculiar indurative condi- tions of particular portions of the brain, in which the normal form and aspect remain unchanged while the size is more or less enlarged. A convolution, a lobe, the corpus callosum, or the basal ganglia may thus become indurated en masse; or in the white matter ill-defined portions of tissue may be palpably harder than the parts around without any discoloration or other apparent change. Such indurations are all due to increase of the connective tissue: in some of them the brain-substance is transformed into a felted mass of delicate fibres containing a few scattered nerve-cells and nerve-fibres or in some parts none at all. Diffuse scleroses cannot be sharply distinguished from the new-growths known as gliomata (Art. 662), and must be con- sidered with them. We know nothing as to the causes of the change, though it is at least possible that they are dependent on some disturbance of the histological development of the tissues in which they occur. References on diffuse sclerosis:—Strumpell, Arch. f. Psych, ix ; Siemens, ibid, x; F. Schultze, ibid, xi; Zacher, ibid, xni; Greiff, ibid, xiv; Erler, Diffuse Hirnsclerosc In. Diss. Tubingen 1881; Cotard, He'miatrophie cerebrate These de Paris 1868 ; Jendrass'K and Marie, Arch, de physiol. v 1885.