[CHAP. LXIX. THE URINARY ORGANS. 56 the whole of the kidney, filling up many of the tubules and Bowman's capsules. Aufrecht reports similar cases {Pathologische Mittheilungen I 1881). Letzerich (loc. cit.) affirms that in diphtheria masses of micrococci may accumulate to such an extent in the circulatory and secretory channels that the urinary function is gravely interfered with. Ziegler has never been able to discover such extensive accumulations of bacteria in the kidney, even in cases of diphtheria. The suspicion arises that some other appearance has been mistaken for colonies of micrococci. Treat- ment of the sections with alkalies and alcohol is not sufficient to determine with certainty the presence of these organisms. Babes (Arch, de physiol. II 1883) has recently described various forms of bacteria discovered by him in the renal blood-vessels in certain forms of nephritis accompanying pyaemic and septicaemic infection, scarlatina, articular rheumatism, yellow fever, etc. In connexion with the latter he found chaplets of two to six diplococci, and suggests that they may be the exciting cause of the disease. Steven {Glasgow Med. Journ. 1884) discusses the suppurative affections of the kidney in a clear and able manner. Chronic Parenchymatous Nephritis. 544. The inflammations of the kidney comprehended under the term chronic parenchymatous nephritis are all characterised by persistent inflammatory exudation from the blood-vessels into the renal tissue, accompanied by marked alteration of the epithelial structures. The persistent exudation takes place partly from the glomeruli and partly from the intertubular capillaries and venules. The intertubular exudation saturates the renal tissues with inflammatory lymph, varying in quantity at different stages of the process and in different cases. This inflammatory oedema is always accompanied by a more or less extensive cellular infiltration (Fig. 213 qr), which is often remarkably dense around the subcortical and interlobular venules (q), often also well-marked in the neighbourhood of the inter- tubular capillaries (r) and here and there in exceptional amount round a few of the glomeruli. The extravasated leucocytes (q) and the liquid exudation may penetrate directly into the tubules, and the leucocytes gathered around the Bowman's capsules may in like manner penetrate them. Intertubular venous haemorrhages are occasionally observed, and when the tubules are at the same time ruptured blood may enter these directly (Nauwerck). The vessels of certain of the glomeruli permit the escape of albuminous urine, which even during life may coagulate into a granular or homogeneous mass within the capsules. More com- monly however coagulation takes place only within the tubules (especially in the loops of Henle), giving rise to the familiar hyaline casts or cylinders. The glomerular capillaries frequently permit the escape of white (e) and red (/) blood-cells. The former often accumulate in great quantity in the capillary loops (b) before escaping, but they do not usually escape in large numbers into the lumen of the capsule. Comparatively few of the red blood-cells (e) escape into the