156 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAR LXXXVI. nodules become more rounded, though even in this stage they frequently have processes and projections corresponding to the thickened alveolar septa. Where a tubercle forms the capillary- system of the part is always destroyed, so that a fully-developed tubercle is non-vascular. Kecent (or 'crude') tubercles are grey and translucent; after- wards they become opaque, yellow and caseous. The eruption of the tubercles is sometimes accompanied by a catarrhal exudation. A lung studded with miliary tubercles is generally hyperaemic; it is firmer and contains less air than normal, the smaller nodules are grey and translucent, the larger opaque and white or yellow. The tubercles are thus obviously not all of the same age. Embolic localised tuberculosis is in its origin of the same nature as the miliary form, but is distinguished from it by occurring only in one or two isolated patches. The development of the single patch corresponds to that of the disseminated miliary eruption. As the patient usually survives for a longer time, the tubercles as they form coalesce into large nodular formations which are the starting-points for further morbid change (Art. 612). Many writers have maintained the existence of a form of lobar pneumonia of which the regular termination is in caseation, and which they consequently describe as caseous lobar pneumonia. Buhl (Lungenentziindung Tuberculosa und Schwindsucht Munich 1872) has asserted that this caseous pneumonia is a sequel of what he calls true de- squamative pneumonia. This latter begins acutely like croupous pneumonia and terminates in recovery, or after weeks, months, or years, in death. The gravest form ends in caseation and is the local expression of a ' tuberculous constitution.' As we have pointed out in Art. 604, there is no distinct form of pneumonia possessing the characters which Buhl describes, and the same holds true for the so-called 'caseous lobar pneumonia.' What has been so frequently described under this head is a confluent caseous lobular broncho- pneumonia of tuberculous origin. Ziegler has examined a large number of lungs clinically described as the seat of caseous lobar pneumonia, and has always found them to be examples of nodular and lobular bronchopneumonia. Nauwerck. and Koch have demonstrated the presence of tubercle-bacilli in the diseased foci (Nauwerck, Deut. Tried. Woch. 18, 1883; Koch, Mittheil. a. d. k. Gesundh. n 1884). For an account of the various views on the subject of caseous lobar pneumonia see Shepherd, Brit. Med. Journ. 1876; Hamilton, ibid. 1880; Orth, Lehrb. d. spec. Path, n Berlin 1885. 607. Syphilitic pneumonia occurs most frequently as the result of congenital syphilis, rarely in the acquired disease. As we have already seen (Art. 128), when the poison of syphilis is diffused by way of the circulation it sets up inflammations which in some cases differ little from ordinary non-specific forms, in others are characterised as specific by the formation of gummatous foci. Both forms occur in the lung, but are certainly very rare indeed (if we except congenital syphilis), and this specific character is by no means easily established. Gummatous pneumonia is a syphilitic inflammation of the