[CHAR LXXXV. 146 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. of bronchopneumonia affections ending in chronic pulmonary change. If insoluble dust is capable of acting in this way, much more will dust containing soluble chemically-active substances, and organised or microparasitic irritants. The air we breathe, especially in thickly-populated places, very frequently contains such matters, and some of them must reach the lung and be deposited on the alveolar walls or enter its tissue or the lymphatics. Many of them do no noticeable harm, others and especially the micro-organisms pass from the lung into other parts of the body, and act as the specific causes of infective disease. Others again give rise to local inflammatory change in the lung itself at the places where they settle. The bacillus of tuberculosis (or its spores) is probably the most striking example, and there is no doubt that other disease-producing agents reach and act on the lung in a similar way. In addition to these irritants inhaled with the air from the atmosphere without, we may have disease set up by inhalation of matters derived from the body itself, and carried into the alveoli of the lung from the mouth, nose, pharynx, larynx, or air-tubes. Saliva and particles of food may be aspirated instead of swallowed, and pus from the larynx or bronchi may be carried into the respiratory parenchyma instead of being coughed up. The former occurs in very young or comatose patients, and the latter in those suffering from laryngitis or bronchitis. These substances when thus aspirated usually set up more or less intense inflammation, especially when they are putrescent or contain putrefactive organisms, or specifically virulent agents such as the bacilli of tuberculosis or of glanders. Very various forms of bronchopneumonia, specific and non- specific, are thus induced, their course and character depending on the nature of the exciting cause. Tubercle-bacilli give rise to inflammatory processes tending to caseation; the products of catarrhal bronchitis as a rule set up a similar catarrhal broncho- pneumonia, slight and usually transient in character; pus from a perichondritic laryngeal abscess tends to cause violent suppurative inflammation of the lung, and putrescent particles of food may lead to gangrene. Many experiments have been made on the action of saliva, decomposing organic substances, and bacteria, when aspirated into the lung. The numerous experiments on so-called vagus-pneumonia are of this nature. This form of inflammation is observed when the vagus and recurrent laryngeal nerve are cut, and is due to the fact that the paralysed larynx permits saliva and foreign matters from the mouth to be drawn into the lung. Other investiga- tors have conveyed into the bronchi liquids or pulverulent matters (dry or suspended in water), others again have caused animals to breathe various substances suspended in the air by means of spray. Lippl, Tappeiner, Schweninger, Schottelius, Weichselbaum, Veraquth, and others have in this way tested the infectiveness of phthisical sputum. The result of such inbalation-experiments depends on the nature of the