169 ART. 613.] FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. culose Leipzig 1883, and Die htisige Hiittenrauehpneumonie d. Rindes, Fortschritte d. Med. 1 1883, in 1885; Biedert and Sigel, Virch. Arch. vol. 98; Wargunin, ibid. vol. 96; Wahl, Dent. med. Woch. 1, 1885; Schaffer, Die Verbreitung d. Taberculose in den Lungen In. Diss. Berlin 1884 ; Brehmer, Die Aetiol. d. chron. Lungenschwindsucht Berlin 1885. 613. Extension of tuberculosis in the lung. The manner in which tuberculosis of the lung extends from part to part is always the same, whether the original infection is due to embolism or to inhalation. The first-formed nodule increases in size by peripheral extension of the cellular infiltration. The accumulation of cells in the contiguous alveolar walls and alveoli takes place continuously and uniformly (Fig. 236 h i), though here and there we may find typical tubercles with epithelioid cells and giant-cells in the midst of the mass of simple leucocytes. After a certain time this continuous extension is accompanied by tuberculous lymphangitis, manifested by the development of tubercles in the course of the surrounding lymphatics (Fig. 236 ik). This eruption may be interalveolar, interlobular, or peribron- chial, and often spreads rapidly to the pleura and the bronchial glands. In many cases this is the only mode of extension, at least for a considerable time. For months together, either steadily or with occasional pauses, fresh nodular foci continue to be formed along the course of the lymphatics, and the intervening tissue becomes chronically inflamed. In this way patches of induration of various sizes are produced, which contain single tubercles and groups of tubercles, usually all enclosing bacilli, and in various stages of growth and decay. Sooner or later another mode of extension takes place in addition to this ordinary one of lymphangitic induration and caseation. A primary (or it may be a secondary) caseous node reaches a certain size, softens and disintegrates, and then breaks through into a bronchus. The caseous detritus contains tubercle-bacilli, and consequently a possibility arises that the disease may be spread to other parts of the lung by aspiration into the air-passages. As a fact much of the detritus and the bacilli are coughed up as sputum, but some may be aspirated into the smaller tubes and so reach the respiratory parenchyma. This may also happen when the infected contents of a bronchiectasis or of a bronchiectatic vomica are emptied into a bronchus, or when a cheesy tuberculous gland softens and breaks through. The aspirated matters lodge in various parts of the pulmonary tissue and give rise to a reactive inflammation whose extent and intensity depend partly on the amount and nature of the irritant substances, partly on the relations of the tissue involved, partly on thu special predisposition of the patient. As regards the irritant