150 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVI. have probably no aetiological connexion witb tbe first, but are due to the action of the specific poisons of the respective primary affections. Eeferences :—Art. 204 ; Eberth, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxvm; Fried- lander, Fortschritte d. Med. 1883, Virch. Arch. vol. 87; Jurgensen, Ziemssen's Cyclop, v, and Die croupose Pneumonic Tubingen 1884; E. Wagner, Deut. Arch. f. Min. Med. xxxm; Salvioli and Zaslein, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1883 ; Heitsch, Ueb. infect. Pneumonic In. Diss. Leipzig 1883; Mendelsohn, Die infect. Natur d. Pneumonie, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. vn; Ziehl, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1883 ; Gunther, Zeitschr. f. Min. Med. 1883 (micrococci in living patient); Discussion, Congress f. innere Med. Wiesbaden 1884; Collective Investigation Record n London 1884; Dreschfeld, Brit. Med. Journ. 1,1884, Fortsclvritte d. Med. in 1885; Klein, Micro-organisms and Disease London 1884; Emmerich, Fortschritte d. Med. 1884; Purjesz, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxv; Senger, Arch. f. exp. Path, xx; Cornil and Babes, Les bacte'ries Paris 1885; Sternberg, Amer. Journ. med. sci. 1885; Discussion, Brit. Med. Journ. 2, 1886. The composition of the exudation varies much in different cases. We have already remarked that the number of extravasated red corpuscles is by no means constant; the white cells and the amount of fibrin formed is also valu- able. In the pneumonia of aged patients the fibrin is often scanty, so that the exudation has rather the character of inflammatory oedema, and only in isolated spots is firmly solidified. The like happens now and then in younger persons, and is indicated by the rapidity with which the affected regions recover and again contain air. It appears also that in certain cases the process may stop short at the stage of congestion, the commencing exudation being rapidly re-absorbed. The time at which hepatisation is complete is also to some extent variable, so that no definite statement can be made as to the precise duration of each stage. All we can say is that during the first two days the hepatised lung is red in tint, after that it becomes pale. Sometimes the transition takes place irregularly, the lung showing patches of greyish-red, greyish-white, and yellow simultaneously. 603. As the coagulated exudation liquefies its removal becomes possible. This takes place chiefly by re-absorption, in part also by expectoration. During this process the lung appears as if saturated with moisture; it is beset with leucocytes but not ia excessive number, and its tissue is easily torn. In the great majority of cases complete recovery takes place, so that after re-absorption is complete nothing remains of the affection. The time required to bring this about varies much in different cases. Not infrequently there is for weeks some dulness to percussion over the affected region. In few cases does any permanent textural change remain, but it is possible for the pneumonic exudation to issue in gangrene, suppuration, or cirrhosis of the lung. Gangrene of the lung occurs when the pulmonary vessels are so gravely injured that the circulation comes to a stand-still, while putrefactive organisms gain access to the affected parts. The former condition is most frequently met with in drunkards and ill- nourished persons, in whom the pneumonic exudation often has a haemorrhagic character. The latter condition is most likely to arise in cases where before the attack of pneumonia bronchiectases or other cavities containing decomposing secretion exist in the lung. The destruction of the lung may take place in isolated patches