193 THE THYROID GLAND. ART. 623.] mentioned in Art. 621 small extravasations may be followed by- proliferation of the glandular parenchyma and formations of hyaline or fibrous tissue. If the fibrous overgrowth be marked indurations and cicatrices result, and these sometimes become in course of time calcified. When the goitrous tissue disintegrates in consequence of haemorrhagic infiltration fatty change often sets in round about the affected area, and oil-globules mingle with the necrotic detritus and disintegrated blood-cells; when the fatty change is marked this may give the pulpy contents of the softened patch a creamy or yellowish-white colour. The tissue enclosing the patch is usually more or less inflamed, and as the detritus is gradually absorbed a cyst-wall of indurated fibrous tissue is developed. Haemorrhage, necrosis, and fatty degeneration of this kind, together with the inflammatory changes that accompany these, are the commonest causes of the fibroid degeneration and induration so frequently met with in goitres. When these changes affect the central parts they give rise to large white radiating cicatrices. Where haemorrhages have been frequent a more diffuse induration is set up, which is then apt to spread over the whole tumour and cause the degeneration and atrophy of the glandular elements. The new-formed fibrous tissue is usually white and lustrous, often resembling hyaline cartilage. Calcareous deposits occur in the gland-tissue as well as in the new-formed fibrous tissue, and are first seen in the colloid masses contained in the acini and in the interacinous tissue. In advanced cases the entire contents of the acini are transformed into shining stratified calcareous grains. In the interacinous tissue the deposit is most marked where fibrous hyperplasia has occurred, and it is consequently by no means uncommon to find the indurated parts transformed into gritty masses and the cysts of disintegration enclosed by capsules that are completely calcified. Forster and LtiCKE describe cases in which the fibrous tissue has become ossified. A very common occurrence in goitrous tumours is the excessive development of colloid substance, especially when the inter- acinous vessels are few and narrow. The colloid substance is secreted by the epithelium in the form of clear colourless droplets, and the detached epithelial cells are themselves transformed into similar hyaline masses. When the secretion is exceptionally abundant the tumour consists almost entirely of a translucent honey-like substance lying in masses separated only by thin fibrous septa. This form is described as gelatinous goitre (struma gelatinosa). Wolfler describes it as a parenchymatous atrophy of the gland, and regards it as an advanced stage of gelatinous adenoma: he supposes that the intra-acinous elements are transformed into colloid substance, while the interacinous tissue becomes atrophied. s. p. a. 2 13