THE LARYNX. ABT. 575.] 101 The syphilitic process may come to a stand-still at any stage, the ulcers healing up by cicatrisation. If the healing is delayed considerable portions of the larynx, such as the epiglottis or vocal cords, may be entirely destroyed. The greater the loss of substance the larger is the cicatrix, and the distortion of the parts due to its contraction may be extreme : sometimes indeed the cavity of the larynx is constricted to a narrow and tortuous passage. The vocal cords occasionally become adherent, or the glottis is encroached on by protuberant bands of scar-tissue. The islands of mucous membrane lying between the cicatrices are often thrust or bulged out in the process, and if they become inflamed and infiltrated or hyperplastic they take the form of outgrowths and papillomatous or polypous excrescences {condylo- mata acuminata) which still further obstruct the air-passage. Lupus of the larynx may accompany lupus of the pharynx and of the nose. It gives rise to nodular infiltrations and ulcers with a thickened edge and granulating floor, which yield a scanty secre- tion. Cicatricial contractions are formed, causing distortion and obstruction as in the case of syphilis. Leprosy likewise gives rise to nodes and nodules in the larynx which coalesce into larger tumour-like growths. The sub- sequent ulceration, cicatrisation, and cicatricial contraction may cause very great distortion of the parts. In glanders disseminated inflammation is set up, which is characterised by the formation of subepithelial cellular nodules. These break down and ulcerate, and in this way extensive destruc- tion of the mucous membrane takes place. Eeferences:—Eppinger, loc. cit.; von Ziemssen, loc. cit. ; Virchow, Krankhafte Geschwiilste n; Gerhardt and Roth, Virch. Arch. vols. 20, 21; Sommerbrodt, Wiener med. Presse 20, 1870, Berl. klin. Woch. 1878, London Med. Record 1878; Turck, Atlas d. Kehlkopfkrankheiten Vienna 1866; Schech, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xx, D. Zeitschr. f. pract. Med. 1877; Whistler, Med. Times and Gaz. 2, 1878; Hauff, Die Rotzkrankheiten beim Menschen Stuttgart 1855 (glanders); Bollinger, Ziemssen's Cyclop, m, and supplement 1881; J. Mackenzie, Amer. Journ. med. sci. 1880 (congenital syphilis); Lewin, Berl. klin. Woch. 41, 1881; Chiari and Eiehl, Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph. 1882 (lupus); Thin, Brit. Med. Jowrn. 2, 1884 (leprosy). 575. Mucous polypi of the larynx are not common; but now and then we meet with polypous thickenings of the false vocal cords, whose structure is exactly similar to that of the mucous membrane. Papillary or villous growths are much more common and are described as papillomata or papillary fibromata. Some of them are of inflammatory origin, others appear to be non-inflammatory or simply hyperplastic. They generally grow from the true vocal cords and sometimes extend over a considerable area. They take the form either of compact nodulated tumours, or warty growths, or ' cauliflower' excrescences. These latter are not infrequently multiple and are especially common in young persons (P. BltUNs).