THE URINARY ORGANS. 68 [CHAP. LXIX. detritus occupies the pelvis, which latter by excavation or by retention of urine is abnormally large. In extreme cases the entire kidney is destroyed, nothing remaining but a thick-walled sack containing cheesy or puriform detritus. As a rule both kidneys are affected, though it is common to find the process much more advanced in one kidney than in the other. 550. Syphilitic affections of the kidney exhibiting any special or characteristic features are not common. Renal inflam- mation referable to the influence of the syphilitic poison is how- ever occasionally met with, and is characterised by the formation of coarse cicatricial bands and of caseating gummata. In congenital syphilis induration and contraction of the kidney has in somewhat rare instances been observed. References on renal tuberculosis :—Rayer, Maladies des reins Paris 1840 ; Virchow, Krankhafte Geschwiilste n; Schmidtlein, Deutsche Klinilc 1863 ; Ktjssmaul, Wiirzbtirger med. Zeitschr. iv; Rosenstein, Berl. klin. Woch. 1865; Colin, Gazette hebdom. x; Southey, Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1867; Mosler, Arch. d. Heilk. 1863; E. Hoffmann, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. m; Huber, ibid, iv; Klebs, Handb. d.path. Anat. ; Ebstein, Ziemssen's Cyclop. xv; Arnold, Virch. Arch. vol. 83; Gaultier, La tuberctdose re'nale primitive These de Paris 1882; Dickinson, Renal and urinary affections in London 1885 ; Steinthal, Virch. Arch. vol. 100; Hilton Fagge, Principles and practice of medicine n London 1886. On renal syphilis see Virchow, Krankhafte Geschwiilste n; Cornil, Journ. de I'anat. 1865 ; Moxon, Guy's Hosp. Rep. 1868 ; Lancereaux, Treatise on syphilis I (New Syd. Soc.) London 1868 ; Greenfield, Atlas of Path. (New Syd. Soc.) London 1879 ; Negell, These de Paris 1884; Klebs, loc. cit.; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. d'hist. path. Paris 1878, Man. Path. Hist. II London 1886 ; the latter found in one case a number of gummata, some of them as large as a pea. In syphilitic patients we not infrequently find the kidney in a state of amyloid degeneration (Moxon, loc. cit.). In tuberculosis of the urinary organs Rosenstein and Babes (Cent. f. d. med. Wisi. 1883) have demonstrated the presence of tubercle-bacilli in the urine.