267 ART. 646.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. connexion with ischaemic necrosis, though the subsequent inflamma- tory changes are apt to be somewhat more intense than in the latter case (Art. 658). If the traumatic softening is confined to the cortex of the brain, we find some time afterwards defects in the convolutions, which are covered over by a mass consisting of collapsed capillaries, unabsorbed detritus, and granule-cells. Some- times sclerotic thickening of the underlying brain-tissue takes place. It is worth remarking that the degenerative changes set up by traumatic violence such as we have just described occasionally go on for years after the initial injury, and that a gradually advancing disintegration of the borders of the softened region takes place, by which in the course of time a very extensive destruction of tissue is effected. Thus for example after a blow on the forehead the whole of the frontal lobe may perish. Probably this progressive destruction depends on some secondary disease of the blood-vessels or obstruction of the lymphatics, which gives rise to permanent disorder of circulation and nutrition. If the effect of the initial injury is slight there may be no general disintegration of tissue, the damage perhaps not extending beyond the necrosis and calcification of a few ganglion-cells. The changes in the cord are exactly similar to those in the brain under the same conditions (Art. 659). The clinical symptoms of concussion of the brain and cord {commotio cerebri et medullae spinalis), namely partial or total loss of consciousness, confusion of mind, muscular weakness, disorder of the functions of the cord, etc. are not dependent on the local damage alone. Even in rapidly fatal cases this damage may be but slight. There is in fact a disturbance of the functions of the entire organ, due doubtless to the mechanical shock which affects detrimentally the whole of the nerve-substance (Koch, Filehne, WlTKOWSKI, BERGMANN). In infants who die soon after birth we often meet with subdural and intra- meningeal haemorrhages, due no doubt to rupture of the venous siuuses or subarachnoid veins from displacement and compression of the cranial bones in the act of parturition. Workmen engaged in bridge-building and exposed to high air-pressure in sunken caissons are sometimes seized with paralysis when they come out suddenly into the free air. Leyden {Arch. f. Psych, ix) found in some of them small patches of degeneration in the cord. These he attributes to the rapid escape of gas (oxygen) from the blood, which had under high pressure absorbed it in excess, the bubbles probably forming small emboli in the vessels. References:—Bergmann, Kopfverletzungen, Deutsche Chirurgie part 30, 1880; Fischer, Sammlung klin. Vortrdge 10, 27; Bruzelius and Key, Virchow's Jahresber. n (1880); Fronmuller, Die Riickenmarkszerreissung, Memorabilien 1876; W. Mutter, Path. Anat. u. Physiol, d. Riickenmarks Leipzig 1871; Erb, Ziemsse?i's Cyclopaedia xiii; Clemens, Die Erschiitterung d. Riickenmarks, Deutsche Klinik 1863—65; Obersteiner, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1879; von Recklinghausen, Virch. Arch. vol. 30; Jolly, Stud. a. d. Inst. f. exp. Path. Vienna 1870; Krafft-Ebing, Die d. Gchirnerschiitt. u. Kopfverletzungen hervorgerufenen psych. Krankh. Erlangen 1868; Koch and Filehne, Langenbeck's Arch, xvn (1874); Witkowski, Virch. Arch. vol. 69. 646. Secondary degenerations of the tracts (systemic degenerations). Destruction of certain parts of the brain and cord