CHAPTER LXXXIII. ATELECTASIS, COLLAPSE, AND EMPHYSEMA OF THE LUNG. 591. In the unborn child the lung is a compact structure, the alveoli exist potentially, but they are everywhere collapsed and airless. When respiration commences the alveoli become distended with air into hollow vesicles and the epithelial lining of their walls becomes expanded and flattened. If the respiration is imperfect owing to the occlusion of a bronchus or the compression of some part of the lung, some of the lobules remain unexpanded and retain the dense fleshy consistence and livid tint of the foetal organ. This condition is known as foetal atelectasis or apneumatosis. When a part of the lung which has once acted becomes from any cause airless it is said to be collapsed or atelectatic. The condition may be due to compression, or to obstruction of a bronchus. Compression of the lung is most commonly brought about by the collection of air or liquid in the pleural cavity, or by excessive elevation of the diaphragm: it may also be due to aortic aneurysm, spinal curvature, thickening and contraction of the pleura, disten- sion of the pericardium, etc. The compression may be partial or total, and the collapse may be more or less complete. When the collapse affects the whole lung and is complete, the organ is usually squeezed up against the spine, and its tissue is dense, tough, and airless : its colour is generally pale pink or grey. Collapsed segments of the lung have a similar appearance, but there is often more blood in the part and so it has a redder colour. When a bronchus or bronchiole is occluded by secretion or other cause, the corresponding segment always becomes airless after a time. Lichtheim states that the oxygen of the enclosed air is first absorbed by the blood, then the carbonic acid, and ultimately the nitrogen; the lung shrinking to its foetal condition. As the collapsed part no longer expands or contracts with respiration, and its capillaries are much folded and contorted, a certain amount of engorgement takes place. The unexpanded tissue thus looks somewhat livid in tint, and is retracted or sunken in comparison with the normal tissue.