[CHAP. LXIX. 66 THE URINARY ORGANS. small islands of less altered or persistent normal tissue lying between them (Fig. 215 A). The fibrous bands start from the intergranular depressions of the surface (B) and run towards the bases of the medullary papillae, being interconnected by numerous transverse bands; the islands of normal tissue are therefore more frequently rounded or oval than elongated. The fibrous bands run in general along the course of the veins, though they frequently ramify without any apparent regularity through the labyrinth. The more numerous they are the smaller of course are the islands enclosed in their meshwork. Cases are met with in which the greater part of the labyrinth is thus indurated and obliterated, the only parts retaining their function being parts of the medullary rays and the tissue immediately adjoining. In such cases the surface granulations are naturally very fine and regular; where the cirrhosis is confined to the course of the veins the irregularities of the surface are usually much more marked. The course and mode of extension of the indurative change are in fact very similar to what is observed in cirrhosis of the liver (Art. 496). The fibrous bands of the cortex always enclose atrophied and collapsed tubules (e f) and obliterated glomeruli whose capsules are more or less thickened (h i). These bands are thus simply portions of renal tissue of which the secreting structures are rendered functionless and the stroma hyperplastic by chronic inflammation. Here and there a tubule or a glomerulus may persist within the indurated region, while some of the tubules are dilated into cysts by the retention of already secreted urine (c). The islands of persistent secreting tissue may present a normal appearance (a). More frequently some of the tubules and glo- meruli show signs of compensatory hypertrophy (b). Some of the epithelial cells are fatty, though the extent of this change varies much in different cases. Here and there too we find patches of cellular infiltration (/c), a sign that the inflammatory process is kept up. Both in the cortex and in the medulla are seen tubules con- taining hyaline cylinders, or masses of shed epithelium and ex- travasated leucocytes. The induration of the intertubular stroma and the loss of the glomeruli involve the obliteration of a considerable portion of the vascular system of the cortex. The vessels passing into the medullary zone (Art. 526) consequently become dilated, though the channels thus opened up never fully compensate for the loss of the cortical channels. Tuberculous and Syphilitic Nephritis. 549. Tuberculosis of the kidney is in most cases due to embolic infection. In rare instances primary tuberculosis of the