CHAPTER LXXVI. INTRODUCTORY. 566. The organs of respiration fall naturally into two groups distinguished by differences both of structure and of function. The one includes the lungs, in which chemical interchanges between the blood and the air are effected; the other is the system of air-passages by which the lungs are placed in communication with the exterior. The air-passages include the nose, larynx, trachea, and bronchi. From the point of view of morbid anatomy these are regarded simply as cavities lined with mucous membrane, and the morbid changes they undergo are conditioned chiefly by changes in this membrane. Certain parts of this system of passages perform functions other than that of air-conduction—for instance, the nasal mucous membrane contains the peripheral olfactory apparatus, and the larynx the mechanism of voice—but the fact affects but little the pathological relations of these parts. These functions involve the presence of certain structures in the epithelial wall of the air-passages, and these are sometimes secondarily (sometimes also primarily) affected when the latter is morbidly altered. The general considerations set forth in Section VI (Arts. 414— 431) are accordingly in the main directly applicable to the case of the mucous membranes of the nose, larynx, trachea, and bronchi. The pathological relations of the lungs themselves (i.e. of the respiratory tissues) are however of an essentially different kind. The peculiar structure of this part of the respiratory apparatus gives a special and peculiar character to its morbid anatomy and to the clinical course of the diseases affecting it. The disorders of the respiratory organs are for the most part due to deleterious influences affecting their tissues through the medium of the respired air. The affections which are traceable to disturbances of the circulation or to alterations in the blood are however by no means insignificant. Affections due to extension of morbid processes from contiguous parts are comparatively infrequent.