83 ART. 563.] DISORDERS OF THE BLADDER. fection reaching the bladder from the uterus, vagina, rectum, or prostate. Other neoplasms of the bladder are very rare indeed. Langhans recently described a case of vesical angioma (Virch. Arch. vol. 86); Gussenbauer (Arch. f. klin. Chir. xviii) and Volkmann (ibid, xix) cases of myoma, Schatz (Arch. f. Gyrdik. x) of nbromyxoma, Posner (Bcrl. klin. Woch. 1883) of primary carcinoma. See also Stein, Tumors of the bladder Philadelphia 1881, New York Med. Rec. 1885 (with references to the recorded cases). 563. Dilatation of the bladder takes place when its evacu- ation is interfered with through occlusion or stricture of the urethra or paralysis of the muscular wall of the bladder itself. When the evacuation is rendered difficult, or when frequent contraction of the bladder is induced by the stimulus of a stone, the muscular coat may hypertrophy. The wall becomes thick- ened and the overgrown muscle-bundles stand out from the inner surface in a reticulum of bands or fasciculi. Diverticuli are produced either by the simultaneous saccu- lation of all the coats, or by the protrusion of the mucous and submucous coats through the meshes of the fasciculated muscular coat. These diverticula are seldom larger than a walnut. They frequently are the seat of concretions, and sometimes are first caused by the pressure of a calculus. Displacements of the bladder are rare, though occasionally a part of the viscus prolapses into a hernial sac. The base of the bladder may also fall down into the vagina (vaginal cystocele), or the posterior wall may prolapse through the dilated female urethra and appear at the external orifice. Rupture of the bladder results from traumatic injury, excessive distention, or morbid change in the wall. Rupture into the peritoneum usually leads to fatal peritonitis. After perforations into the pelvic cellular tissue urinary infiltration takes place, leading to gangrene or suppuration in the tissue invaded. Ulcer- ation or local necrosis sometimes leads to the opening of abnormal communications between the bladder and the vagina, uterus, rectum, or external cutaneous surface. These are called urinary fistulae. and are kept open by the constant escape of urine through them. 6—2