ART. 593.] ATELECTASIS, COLLAPSE, AND EMPHYSEMA OF LUNG. 131 In. Diss. Kiel 1883) have recently directed attention to the bronchiectasis which may follow upon foetal atelectasis. Ziegler has met with a typical example in the case of a man of 35, in whom about a quarter of the upper lobe of the left lung was transformed into dense white fibrous tissue, excavated in all directions by smooth-walled cavities lined with cylindrical epithelium and communicating with bronchi. The largest cavity was about as large as a hen's egg. There were no signs whatever of any previous inflammation. 593. When the thorax is over-distended by forced inspiration, or when one part of the lung is pervious to air while another part is shut off, the pervious parts become excessively inflated and a condition which we may describe as acute vesicular emphysema is induced. The alveoli are not altered in structure but are simply over-distended. This condition is very commonly the result of bronchopneumonia. The distended lobules are pale and anaemic, and those that lie immediately beneath the pleura project like little blebs above the level of the normal or atelectatic parts. When the pressure within an alveolus exceeds a certain amount its wall gives way, and air enters the interalveolar tissue and especially the lymphatic channels. This condition is called inter- vesicular emphysema. It is generally a result of bronchitis or bronchopneumonia accompanied by violent coughing, and is met with in children who have died of asphyxia during the course of these affections. It has also occurred from over-energetic attempts to insufflate the lungs of stillborn infants. The alveoli of the anterior border of the upper lobe are the most apt to give way. The inflated vesicles are usually subpleural and may be as large as a pea. Sometimes air passes from them under the pleura towards the root of the lung and into the mediastinal adipose tissue, sometimes even inflating the subcu- taneous structures of the neck and thorax (subcutaneous em- physema). 594. When the alveoli are subjected to persistent or often- repeated distension, partial atrophy and yielding of their walls ensue, and two or more alveoli being thus converted into one the pulmonary tissue is to that extent ' rarefied.' This state is called chronic vesicular emphysema or simply emphysema. Its production may be facilitated by disorders of nutrition, such for example as accompany local inflammation or senile decay. The lungs of many persons seem also normally to possess but little power of resistance to over-distension. The atrophy of the septa begins at the point where they are thinnest, and first appears in the widening of the intercapillary spaces (Fig. 222 a) and the yielding or disappearance (b) of the elastic fibres. Holes and gaps next appear between the capillaries in the septa; they arc at first very small (b), but soon enlarge (d). The over-stretched capillaries become impervious (c) and ulti- mately give way (d). By the gradual extension of this process many of the septa and 9—2