ART. 602.] 140 FORMS OF PNEUMONIA. stage of red hepatisation (Fig. 229). The lung is bulky, heavy, film, and airless. The cut surface is red or greyish-red and granulated, the plugs which distend the alveoli protruding some- what beyond their walls. The pleura over the affected region is turbid and covered with a thin film of fibrin: the costal surface is often marked by shallow impressions of the ribs. In the neighbourhood of the infiltrated region the lung-tissue is fre- quently oedematous or filled with a turbid greyish exudation con- taining numerous leucocytes. During the stage of red hepatisation the lung is still highly vascular and filled with blood, the red tint being due not only to the extravasated red corpuscles but also to the blood which distends the capillaries. When the red corpuscles are extravasated in very large numbers the exudation assumes a dark-red tint like that of haemorrhagic infiltration. The stage of red hepatisatiou passes gradually into that of grey hepatisation. The change of tint is mainly due to the decolori- sation of the exudation and the accompanying anaemia of the lung-tissue. It must be remembered that in ordinary cases the pulmonary vessels remain throughout permeable by injections, while the normal structure of the lung continues quite distinct (Fig. 229). As the exudation loses colour the cells it contains break down by fatty change and disintegration into granules and flakes, and they with the fibrin begin to dissolve. Leucocytes now migrate freely from the vessels, some of which remain clinging to the vessel-walls while others mingle with the liquefying exudation. These changes result in the colliquation of the firm coagula, and when the lung is cut and scraped an abundant turbid whitish or greyish juice comes away, and the plugs that still fill the alveoli are loose and easily removed. The resolution of the pneumonia has set in. The bronchi of the affected part are throughout the changes just described the seat of inflammatory change, and contain a mucous or sero-mucous secretion stained brown or red ('prune- juice' or 'rusty' sputum) with blood-pigment. In the later stages the secretion is mingled with liquefied exudation from the bronchi- oles and alveolar ducts. Sometimes croupous casts of the smaller bronchi are formed. We alluded in Art. 204 to the fact that Klebs, Koch, and Friedlander had observed the presence of micrococci in true croupous pneumonia. More recent investigations by Friedlander, Frobenius, and others make it not improbable that these micro-organisms (round or oval diplococci surrounded by a gelatinous capsule) are in causal relation to the disease. If this be established the view long maintained by Jurgensen—that croupous pneumo- nia is the symptom of a specific infective disease—will be confirmed. The clinical course, the definite duration of the accompanying fever, and the occasional epidemic character of the disease—all point in this direction. In addition to this idiopathic form croupous pneumonias sometimes appear in the course of various infective diseases such as malarial fever, erysipelas, and typhoid, and in acute rheumatism. According to E. Wagner these forms