264 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. circulation in it is suspended almost all the motor ganglion-cells in the corresponding half of the spinal segment must suffer. Any part of the basal region of the brain may be the seat of softening, and the disorders of function thus induced are of the most various kinds. Occurring anywhere in the pyramidal (or motor) tract it leads to motor paralysis which is usually unilateral (hemiplegia): in the neighbourhood of the bulbar nuclei or the conducting paths leading from them it gives rise to paralysis of one or more of the cranial nerves. In the cerebrum softening occurs in the territory of the basilar or of the cortical arteries. Destruction of cortical centres thus brought about results in various motor and sensory paralyses. Thus destruction of the angular gyrus and occipital lobe implies loss of vision, destruction of the central convolutions and parietal lobe causes paralysis of the limbs on the opposite side, destruction of the left inferior-frontal convolution in right-handed persons induces motor aphasia, and so on. If the number of patches of cortical softening (Fig. 260) be great, almost all the functions of the brain may be more or less impaired. Large and single or small and multiple softenings occurring in the corona radiata or internal capsule lead to interruption of the motor tract and consequently to motor paralysis. Localised softening in the anterior horns of the cord is followed by paralysis of special groups of muscles. Thus in a recent case observed by the author the muscles of one arm were paralysed, in another one arm and the diaphragm; on examination patches of softening were in each case found in the anterior horn of the middle and lower portions of the cervical cord on the same side. Such ischaemic softenings of the anterior horn are frequently misdescribed by clinical observers as due to anterior poliomyelitis. Ehrlich and Briegeb (Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. 1884) found that after temporary ligature of the aorta, by which the lumbar cord was deprived of blood for an hour, the grey matter and the anterior roots were completely degenerated, the white columns still remaining intact. 644. Softening from compression. When the substance of the brain or cord is in any way subjected to severe compression, degeneration of the compressed tissue sooner or later sets in. Such compression is most frequent in the case of the cord, every encroachment on the narrow spinal canal involving almost of necessity a pressure on the soft tissue which it cannot escape. For example, tuberculous granulations, caseous matter and pus collecting in the epidural space during inflammatory disease of the vertebrae, tumours of the bone, dura mater, or pia mater, haemorrhagic effusion into the membranes, varicosities or angio- matous overgrowth of the pial vessels, dilatations of the central canal of the cord itself, dislocation of the vertebrae such as occurs in caries of the spine, all give rise to compression of the nerve- substance. Loosening or rupture of the ligaments connecting the axis and atlas, such as occurs in carious disease of the upper cervical spine