ART. 641.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. 257 Many authorities speak of pigmentary atrophy of the ganglion-cells as distinct from simple atrophy; but it does not appear that there is ever any real or marked increase of pigment in the cases they describe. As ganglion- cells normally containing pigment become smaller the pigment does not disappear, and they accordingly seem to have more of it in proportion to their size. Non-pigmented cells scarcely ever exhibit any pigment as they atrophy. It must however be admitted that occasionally after the disappearance of the cells the amount of pigment seems to increase. Atrophy of the large ganglion-cells of the anterior horns is followed by atrophy (amyotrophy) of the corresponding muscles; but all muscular atrophy is not dependent on loss of the ganglion-cells. Erb, Schultze, and others have described cases in which after recent atrophy of the anterior horns of grey matter the anterior nerve-roots were still intact, though the muscles showed signs of degeneration. From this it would appear that the muscles perish more rapidly than the nerve-fibres. Many authors affirm that loss of the anterior ganglion-cells is accompanied by an increase of the neuroglia. This is occasionally the case, but by no means uniformly: very marked atrophy may be unattended by any such increase. It is worth mentioning that after the total disappearance of the nerve-elements from a section of the anterior horns small granular masses remain, interspersed among the cells and fibres of the neuroglia. This would go to show that the granular-looking substance of the grey matter does not belong wholly to the nerve-fibres and ganglion- cell-processes, a view recently re-affirmed by Ranvier {Arch, de physiol. I 1883). Atrophy of the anterior horns with or without sclerotic change is often regarded as a chronic inflammation and described as poliomyelitis anterior chronica. In like manner ischaemic softening is sometimes regarded as a poliomyelitis. The genesis and course of these affections make it obvious that they are non-inflammatory and that such terms are inappropriate. Eeferences on simple atrophy of the anterior horns and bulbar nuclei:— Charcot and Joffroy, Arch, de physiol. 1869; Pierret, ibid, n (1875); Charcot and Gombault, ibid.; Duchenne and Joffroy, ibid, iv (1870); Charcot, ibid., Diseases of the nervous system London 1876—80; Kesteven, St Barth. Hosp. Rep. xrii (1878); Schultze, Virch. Arch. vol. 75; Cornil and Lupine, Paralysie ge'n. spinale ant. subaigue, Gaz. me'd. de Paris 1875; Jarisch, Viertelj. f. Derm. u. Syph. vm (1881); Erb and Schultze, Arch. f. Psych, ix; Vierordt, ibid, xiv; Goltdammer, Berl. hlin. Woch. 1876; DfIjerine, Arch, de physiol. vi (1883); see also Art. 647, references on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. References on the structure of the cerebellar cortex and cerebellar atrophy:—Denissenko, Arch. f. mihros. Anat. xiv; Obersteiner, Allg. Zeitschr. f. Psych, vol. 27, Biolog. Centralb. in (1883); Golgi, Arch. ital. p. I. mal. nerv. 1874, Rivista sperim. di freniatria 1882, 1883; Fiedler, Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. xi (1861); Doguet, Gaz. hebdom. 1862; Meynert, Med. Jahrb. d. Gesell. d. Aerzte in Wien 1864; Pierret, Arch, de physiol. iv (1871—72); E. Clapton, Trans. Path. Soc. xxn (1871); Otto, Arch. f. Psych, iv; Fischer, ibid, v; Huppert, ibid, vn; Bischoff, ibid. xn. 641. Some of the conditions included under the general term atrophy are directly dependent on aplasia or agenesis (Arts. 630 and 633) of parts of the brain and cord. Many atrophies detected only in years of maturity are in fact aplasias dating from the foetal period. Other atrophies affect nervous structures which have from the beginning been ill-developed or ill-organised. The greater number of cases of cerebellar atrophy (Art. 640) unassociated with inflammation or tumour certainly belong to this latter class, as do also those cases of shrinking of the cerebrum in which close examin- S. P. A. 2 17