CHAPTER LXXVIII. THE LARYNX. 569. Malformations. Entire absence of the larynx is very rare as a congenital anomaly; it is met with only in amorphous and acephalous acardiac monsters in whom the lungs are unde- veloped (Art. 13). Congenital defects, as of the epiglottis or of part or the whole of one of the laryngeal cartilages, are much commoner. Asymmetry and abnormal largeness or smallness of the larynx are also met with: abnormal smallness frequently accompanies aplasia of the testicle or early castration. Some- times the laryngeal cartilages are abnormal in number, and the epiglottis more or less deeply cleft. The ventricles of the larynx or sinuses of Morgagni are not uncommonly of abnormally great capacity, and occasionally we find extra-laryngeal pouches com- municating with them. This anomaly is of special interest, inasmuch as it is a normal feature in the Quadrumana. Of acquired deformities laryngeal stenosis is the most note- worthy. It may be due to pressure from without, but more commonly to disease of the larynx; for example, to inflammation by which the mucous membrane becomes swollen and covered with a solid exudation or undergoes cicatricial contraction, or to the growth of intra-laryngeal tumours. Functional stenosis may be brought about by paralysis of the muscles which open the glottis or spasm of the muscles which close it. Foreign bodies impacted in the glottis may have the same effect. The morbid anatomy of the larynx has been very thoroughly discussed by ErpiNGER (Klebs's Handb. d. path. Anat. part 7 vol. n Berlin 1880). Numerous references to the pathology of laryngeal affections will be found in the following text-books:—Rauchfuss, Gerhard?s Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. in Tubingen 1878 ; von Ziemssen, Ziemssen's Cyclop, iv, VH; Turck, Klinik d. Krankheiten d. Kehlkopfes Vienna 1866; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist, n London 1884 ; P. Bruns, Die Laryngotomie Berlin 1878; Morell Mackenzie, Diseases of the throat and nose i London 1880. 570. Affections of the laryngeal mucous membrane. Laryngeal catarrh is very common, and is characterised by redness