209 ART. 626.] STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS. horn the neuroglia is rich in cells, and ganglion-cells are absent: these parts are spoken of as the substantia gelatinosa, the parts containing ganglion-cells as the substantia spongiosa. In the anterior horn the ganglion-cells (motor cells) are large and multipolar; they possess numerous processes, one long and unbranched is the axis-cylinder process, the others sub- dividing and interlacing into a delicate network of fibrils. The anterior ganglion-cells are gathered into clusters, corresponding apparently to the territories of the blood-vessels. In the posterior horns they are much smaller and more uniformly distributed. Two longitudinal columns of bipolar ganglion-cells exist in the dorsal region of the cord, lying to the median side of the inner portion of the posterior horns and known as Clarke's vesicular columns; these contain ganglion-cells intermediate in size between those of the anterior and those of the posterior horns. The white matter of the cord forms a sheath surrounding the grey columns and filling up their irregularities. It is cleft behind by the slender posterior sulcus or fissure (sip) which extends to the grey matter, and anteriorly by the wider anterior fissure (fla) which does not quite reach the grey matter but leaves a narrow white or anterior commissure (coa) to unite the lateral halves of the cord. The white matter consists of large and small medullated nerve-fibres (without the primitive sheath of Schwann) running for the most part longitudinally ; only a few run horizontally or obliquely. These fibres are divided into bundles by fibrous and neurogliar dissepiments extending inwards from the surface. Externally the cord is covered with a thin layer of greyish neuroglia. Very few ganglion-cells are met with in the white matter. The roots of the spinal nerves are bundles of fibres leaving the cord anteriorly and posteriorly in more or less parallel directions. The anterior root (ra) contains motor fibres and starts proximately from the anterior horn: the posterior root (rp) conveys centri- petal or sensory fibres to the posterior horn. A certain number of anterior-root fibres and posterior-root fibres unite into a nerve, and to each pair of nerves corresponds a more numerous aggregation of ganglion-cells; consequently the cord is subdivided into a number of natural segments whose number corresponds to that of the spinal nerves. The portion of white matter between the anterior fissure and the anterior root is called the anterior column ; that between the anterior and posterior root on the same side is the lateral column ; that between the posterior root and the posterior fissure is the posterior column. The fibres passing into the roots are connected with the ganglion cells of the anterior horn by means of the axis-cylinder process, with those of the posterior horn by the network of fibrils ; in the latter the ganglion-cell processes and the nerve-fibres inter- S.P. A. 2 14