21 ART. 526.] DISORDERS OF THE RENAL CIRCULATION. afferens will affect only a single glomerulus; constriction of an interlobular artery may cause the atrophy of an entire series. The morbid changes appear in patches scattered over the kidney according to the distribution of the affected arteries; but occasionally they are so extensive as to affect almost uniformly the whole of the cortical zone. In slight cases the section shows only a few scattered cicatricial contractions of various sizes, which are usually somewhat redder than the parts around; these latter are pale greyish-red or reddish- brown in tint. The greater the number of atrophic patches the more numerous are these cicatricial contractions, so that at length the kidney looks granular and roughened on its surface while its bulk is notably diminished. The condition may then be aptly referred to as arteriosclerotic contraction. This form of contraction sometimes reaches an extreme degree, the whole kidney being remarkably small and shrunken, and the cortex reduced to a thickness of one or two millimetres. In such cases the greater number of the glomeruli are atrophied (Fig. 204 b c d), and the corresponding tubules (I) are collapsed, shrunken, and empty or filled with atrophied epithelial cells. Some of the tubules usually contain hyaline colloid masses, especially in the loops of Henle (o), which are often entirely filled with them. The convoluted tubules of the cortex on the contrary seldom contain casts, though here and there they appear dilated into little cysts (m) filled with colloid substance. Cases also occur in which the entire parenchyma is beset with small cysts from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea. The shrinking and warping of the cortex causes the interlobular arteries (/) to be distorted and twisted into irregular spirals, while here and there some of them are so displaced as to run nearly parallel to the surface. Most of them show a more or less marked thickening of the intima (e f). When the vascular system of the cortex is thus damaged or obliterated by the obstruction of the glomerular and interlobular capillaries the vessels running towards the medullary zone (the arteriae rectae (g)) become widely dilated, and the greater part of the blood-stream passes directly through the medulla. In the arteriosclerotic kidney there is little or no hyperplasia of the connective tissue, and the capsule of Bowman is seldom perceptibly thickened. Here and there however the connective tissue shows patches of cellular infiltration (q). Gull and Sutton (Med. chir. Trans, lv 1872) were the first to call Special attention to the arterial changes associated with contracted kidney; they described the condition as ' arterio-capillary fibrosis.' Their statements were however somewhat lacking in precision, and they did not sufficiently distinguish between primary arteriosclerosis and the secondary form associated with interstitial nephritis. Dr CIioorge Johnson (Lectures on BrigMs disease London 1873) drew attention to the hypertrophy of the muscular coats of the arterioles in certain chronic kidney diseases; he interpreted the vascular