4 [CHAP. LXIV. THE URINARY ORGANS. of the stalk of the allautois which lies within the body of the embryo, and which ultimately becomes the urinary bladder and the urachus. The wolffian body arises independently of the wolffian duct from another part of the intermediate cell-mass. The mass breaks up into a number of transverse cords of cells appearing at first to be connected with the peritoneal epithelium. These cords speedily become excavated into caecal tubules (wolffian tubes), which are more or less convoluted and ultimately open into the wolffian duct. The organ thus developed is not unlike the permanent kidney. The secondary or permanent kidney and the ureter are later developments. The ureter arises as a dorsal diverticulum from the hind-end of the wolffian duct near its opening, the diverticulum growing forwards on the dorsal side of the wolffian body. The kidney is developed from the hindmost part of the intermediate cell-mass, the -part namely that did not break up into wolffian tubes. The cells of the mass apply themselves to the growing ureter, and become excavated into tubules; collecting tubes spring simultaneously from the ureter, and becoming continuous with the former give rise to typical renal tubules. The ureter does not long remain attached to the wolffian duct, its opening being gradually carried back until it enters the cloaca independently. The renal tubules in the cell-mass become convoluted and round their caecal ends appear small aggregations of cells, in which blood-vessels develope forming the vascular glomeruli. These glomeruli then push in or invaginate the renal tubules, and presently a series of spherical structures is produced, each consisting of a coil of convoluted blood-vessels almost entirely surrounded by a double envelope continuous with the wall of a renal tubule. The stalk or pedicle of the glomerulus passes out at the point where the original invagination took place, which is usually opposite to the starting-point of the tubule. This spherical structure so formed is the malpighian body, the. spherical envelope being the capsule of Bowman. Meanwhile the tubules become elongated and convoluted, and are soon differentiated into the various segments recognised in the adult kidney. In the human foetus of eight weeks the kidney is already a lobulated organ with a number of completely-formed malpighian bodies. The papillae (Art. 520) are apparent at the end of the third month, and some of the tubules have attained their permanent form by the fourth month. Glomeruli continue to be formed throughout the whole time of foetal life and for some time after birth. The lobulated external form usually disappears during the first year of infancy. The bladder is derived from the primitive urachus or stalk of the allautois, which arises in the first month from the hind-gut as a caecal diverticulum lined with hypoblast. The urachus thus opens primarily into the terminal portion of the gut and afterwards becomes separable into two segments, the posterior forming the urogenital sinus or cloaca, the anterior being dilated into the bladder and receiving the ureters. In the second month the bladder appears as a spindle-shaped cavity communicating below with the anal portion of the gut and above through the still patent urachus with the umbilical cord. At a later stage the urachus contracts and ultimately closes into a solid cord—the median ligament of the bladder. The closure is not in all cases complete (Luschka, Virch. Arch. vol. 23); even in adults it may persist as a fine tube communicating with the bladder and lined with epithelium. Eeferences on the development of the urinary organs:—Balfour, Comp. Embryology n ch. 23 London 1881 (with bibliography); Kolliker, Entwicke- lungsgesc/iichte Leipzig 1879; Furbringer, Morphol. Jahrbuch iv 1878; Semper, Arbeiten a. d. zool. Inst, n, III Wurzburg 1875—76 ; Spengel, ibidem in; Braun, ibidem iv ; Kupffer, Arch. f. mikr. Anat. I, n (1865—66); Kowa- lewsky, Die Bildung d. Urogcnitalanlage b. Hiihnchencmbryonen Warsaw 1875; Sedgwick, Quart. J. Micro. Sci. xxi 1880—81; Allen Thomson, Quain's Anatomy n London 1882 (with full references).