100 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXVIII. are developed. There is however no invariable rule in the matter: the extent of the tuberculous infiltration and of the ensuing ulcer- ation varies greatly in different cases. Sometimes there are only a few punctiform ulcers on the vocal cords or posterior laryngeal wall, in other cases large areas of mucous membrane are destroyed and the cartilages also are involved in the necrotic process. Tuberculous ulceration is always accompanied by a certain amount of catarrh: oedema of the glottis or phlegmonous inflamma- tion are also occasional complications. Eeferences :—Eppinger, loc. cit.; Heinze, Die Kehlkopfsschvnndsucht Leipzig 1879 ; von Ziemssen, Ziemssen's Cyclop, vn, and supplement 1881; Morell Mackenzie, op. cit., and Brit. Med. Journ. 1, 1879; Biefel, D. Arch, f. klin. Med. xxx 1882 ; Solis Cohen, Amer. Journ. mod. sci. 1883. Heinze believes that the tuberculous metastasis from the lungs to the larynx takes place through the blood and not by means of the sputa. This is however very unlikely : the sputa from a tuberculous lung contain bacilli and are infective, they may therefore very well convey the specific infection to the larynx. Rindfleisch affirms that the tuberculous ulceration starts from the mouths of the mucous glands. This may sometimes be the case, but it is not the ride. 574. The first symptoms of syphilitic laryngitis may be those of a simple catarrh, though the accompanying infiltration of the mucous membrane is often extreme. The affection usually follows upon syphilitic disease of the pharynx, and is doubtless an extension of the latter. At a later stage deep erosions appear, whose floor and edges are densely infiltrated. Prominent greyish-white or red patches are formed on the surface of the mucous membrane {condylomata lata, plaques muqueuses), which also ulcerate as a rule; sometimes however the infiltration is re-absorbed and they disappear. These erosions or ulcers vary much in extent and in depth. The floor of the larger ulcers is covered with a grey film: when this is removed the characteristic whitish exudation appears be- neath. The epiglottis, the vocal cords, and the posterior wall of the larynx are the most frequent seats of ulceration. In rare cases the whole of the interior of the larynx is denuded and the cartilages laid bare. A second form of syphilitic ulceration is due to the breaking down of gummata; these are usually seated in the submucosa and are not due to direct infection from the pharynx. They are most common in the epiglottis and vocal cords, and may be so large and numerous as to obstruct or occlude the larynx. Small gummatous nodes may be re-absorbed, but the large ones usually soften in the centre and break through into the larynx, giving rise to flask-shaped ulcers with infiltrated edges. The ulceration may extend into the laryngeal wall and cause perichon- dritis and necrosis of cartilage : in this case the inflammation takes on a purulent or suppurative character.