7 ART. 519.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. Partial duplication of the ureter implies an early subdivision of the primitive diverticulum (Art. 516); complete duplication must be due to the simultaneous development of two diverticula from the wolffian duct. Both normal and abnormal ureters may open in abnormal situations. In the male one ureter may open into the colliculus seminalis or into a seminal vesicle, in the female into the urethra, vagina, or uterus. A secondary coalescence of one ureter with the miUlerian duct is sometimes observed. In rare instances valvular folds of mucous membrane and twists or kinks in the tube may so obstruct the outflow of urine as to give rise to hydronephrosis (Art. 552). Congenital atresia of a ureter or pelvis, or of a single calix, is rare. References :—Klebs, loc. cit. ; Heller, Deut. Arch. f. hlin. Med. v; Weigert, Virch. Arch. vol. 70; Hoffmann, Arch. d. Heilk. xm ; Bostrom, Beitr. z. path. Anat. d. Mere Freiburg 1884. 519. Of the malformations of the bladder the most serious is extroversion (otherwise fissura, ecstrophia, or inversio vesicae). As was pointed out in Art. 9 this malformation is due to the imperfect closure of the abdominal walls and of the bladder: a defect remains above the symphysis through which the posterior wall of the bladder protrudes. The symphysis in many cases remains likewise unclosed, while the penis is rudimentary and the urethra opens on its upper surface (epispadias). More rarely the bladder itself is closed and protrudes through the abdominal fissure or through the umbilicus {ectopia vesicae). Sometimes the anterior wall is closed while the posterior remains open, a communication existing between the bladder and the pelvic cavity or the vagina. Very frequently we find remains of the urachus in the round or median ligament of the bladder. They take the form of a narrow patent channel or of small detached cysts, which may be either closed or open toward the bladder. In the latter case they some- times become distended with urine when the bladder is over- filled. If any impediment to the normal outflow of urine take place in infancy, the urachus may never close at all; and occasion- ally it has been known to serve as a means of emptying the bladder. Division of the bladder into two separate or partly separate portions {vesica bipartita or bilocularis) is very rare: the two cavities may lie side by side or one above the other. Congenital diverticula of the bladder are very rare. Atresia of the vesical orifice of the urethra or of a ureter is also rare: in the former case, as we have said, the urachus remains patent.