CHAPTER LXIX. HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. 538. The term haematogenous nephritis includes all the inflammatory affections of the kidney the exciting cause of which reaches the organ by way of the circulation. The anatomical condition for the existence of nephritis is the presence of an inflammatory alteration of the blood-vessels. As t his is incapable of direct demonstration the evidence of it appears in the presence of an inflammatory exudation. In glandular organs an inflammatory exudation lodges either in the connective-tissue stroma, or in the lumen of the acini and ducts; in the latter case it mingles with the specific glandular secretion, whose composition is thereby altered. The kidney is no exception to the rule. But the determina- tion of many points in connexion with renal inflammation is rendered difficult by the fact—that the kidney normally contains a large quantity of liquid transuded from the blood-vessels, and thus inflammatory exudations entering the tubular system are frequently not at once distinguishable from non-inflammatory tran- sudations. Our decision as to whether for example the contents of a Bowman's capsule or a uriniferous tubule are inflammatory or not depends on their composition. Inflammatory exudations are always highly albuminous; they usually contain blood-cells, and often fibrinous coagula. The altered secretion of an inflamed kidney also contains albumen, and generally blood-cells and coagula. If then we are sometimes in doubt as to the nature of a given renal affection it is owing to the fact that a simple degenera- tion of the glomerular or tubular epithelium, or a transitory disturb- ance of the circulation, may occasion the escape of albumen from the blood into the urine. If other decisive marks are absent we may fall back on this—that the quantity of albumen in the urine in inflammatory affections of the renal vessels is greater than in simple degeneration or hyperaemia. But after all is said it must be granted that it is impossible to draw an absolutely sharp line between renal inflammations and renal degenerations.