297 ART. 657.] INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. Arch. f. Psych, xv 1884; Hartmann, ibid, xvi 1885 (mental disorder following injury to the head). On like changes in the cord :—Turck, Wiener Sitzungsber. li, lii, lvi ; Westphal, Viroh. Arch. vols. 39, 40; Magnan, Gaz. des hopitaux 14, 1876; Stewart, Glasgoiv Med. Journ. 1886. 657. The aetiology of haematogenous chronic meningoen- cephalitis is in many respects imperfectly understood. Hereditary predisposition, severe mental labour, exciting or exhausting in- fluences of every kind, etc. have all been observed as antecedent conditions, and in such cases the hypothesis of an infective or toxic exciting cause seems to be excluded: such a cause is conceivable only in cases where the process is associated with diseases like cerebrospinal meningitis, typhoid, erysipelas, articular rheumatism, etc. And even here the secondary affection may well be the result of disordered nutrition rather than of any special extension of the primary disease. Most cases of chronic meningoencephalitis and meningomyelitis would thus appear to be in their inception mainly dependent on degenerative changes due to excessive functional activity or to disorder of the circulation. In recent cases of mental disorder presenting the same symptoms as the lesion we are considering, that is to say in what is clinically progressive paralysis, the changes found are frequently degene- rative only, little if any evidence of inflammatory disease being discoverable. White turbidity of the pia mater is the chief of these changes, and it is due to an accumulation in the tissue of small globules and granules of fat, fatty and broken-down cells, and occasionally fat-granule cells. This detritus cannot have been wholly produced at the points where it is found by the degene- ration merely of the meningeal endothelium or of extravasated cells ; it must at least in part be derived from the brain-substance: and as a fact like matters are found in small quantity in the pial sheaths of the cortical vessels, while the vessel-walls themselves show here and there spots of fatty degeneration. It is also of special interest to note that some of the ganglion-cells are likewise fatty. It often happens that no signs of inflammation appear at the sites of degeneration, though there are often small haemorrhagic extravasations or pigmentary deposits to indicate that the circulation has been disturbed. It must be remembered that congestive hyperaemia alone, such as frequently accompanies excessive func- tional activity, is capable of increasing the intracranial pressure, and thus of compressing the capillaries, retarding the circulation, and bringing about local anaemia and engorgement with all their consequences. But although simple disturbances of circulation and nutrition play an important part in the causation of progressive paralysis, it must not be forgotten that in other parts of the brain or cord,