248 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. in the exudation and is thus absorbed. The undissolved remainder is taken up chiefly by the white blood-cells which thus become myeline-carriers and fat-granule cells (Fig. 252/, Fig. 253 h2). The latter are always present when disintegrative processes are going on. If blood should have escaped from the vessels during the process, pigment-granule cells (Fig. 253 ha) will also be found. The free detritus and the carrier-cells are in the course of time conveyed into the circumvascular lymph-channels (Fig. 253 c) of the affected region and by them removed. When the degeneration is extensive not only the neighbouring lymphatics but also those more remote are crammed with granules and granule-carrying cells. If these reach the meshes of the pia mater or the subarachnoid space they give the tissue a milky and turbid appearance. Corpora amylacea (Art. 61), which are normally met with in the brain-tissue, are found in increased numbers where degeneration has taken place. Regeneration of the nerve elements of the brain and cord appears never to occur, at least in man. When ganglion-cells and the nerve-tracts corresponding to them are once destroyed, the functions they performed can only be restored by the substitution of equivalent centres and tracts capable of functionally replacing them. The above-mentioned form of disintegration of the myeline of nerve-fibres is usually described as fatty degeneration, inasmuch as the myeline-detritus after a time gives the microchemical reactions of fat. When the tissues of the brain and cord, with their membranes and lymphatics, are found to contain granule-carrying cells, it may in general be regarded as evidence that disintegration of nerve-substance has taken place at some point or other. According to Jastrowitz {Arch. f. Psych, n) this applies only to persons more than seven months old. From the fifth month of gestation to the seventh month after birthsuchgramde-cellsoccurnormallyinvariousparts of the central nervous system, depending on the stage of growth: they appear to be connected witb the development of the medullary nerve-sheaths. According to Boll the material for the formation of these sheaths is brought to the fibres by migratory cells. Formerly their presence was supposed to indicate a morbid change described as congenital encephalitis. Virchow has however re-asserted {Berl. klin. Woch. 46, 1883) the pathological nature of the granule-cells found in the brain of new-born infants, arguing that the granules give the microchemical reactions of fat but not those of myeline, that they are not constantly found, and that they are accompanied by swelling of the neuroglia-cells and multiplication of nuclei, and that occasionally some degeneration of nerve-tissue is present. The granule-cells are either scattered diffusely or grouped in clusters which form opaque white patches on the greyish-red surface of the foetal brain, and are quite visible by the unaided eye. Not infrequently the pia mater about the base of the brain exhibits a deep-brown staining. It is usually due to an exceptional development of the stellate pigment-cells normally found in the pia mater, and is therefore not pathological. Morbid pigmentation of the membrane is as we have seen sometimes caused by haemorrhagic effusions. The mode in which the amyloid concretions are produced is not certainly