CHAPTER LXXIV. MORBID CHANGES IN THE URETHRA. 564. The inflammations of the urethra correspond gener- ally with those of other mucous membranes. Croupous and diphtheritic inflammations are rare, but catarrh is very frequently met with. The most important form of catarrh is gonorrhoea, which is set up by a specific micrococcus (Neisser, Haab, Martin). The micrococcus is conveyed to the urethra in the secretion from another mucous membrane affected with gonorrhoea, and multiply- ing sets up an inflammation characterised by its purulent catarrhal exudation, which is yellowish or greenish-yellow and sometimes slightly blood-stained. The inflammation may extend from the urethra to other parts of the urinary tract and to the neighbouring genital organs, and ultimately affect (by metastasis) remote regions like the joints, as in gonorrhoeal rheumatism. The inflammation may also extend in the urethra from the mucous to the submucous strata, and thence to the periurethral connective tissue and the lymphatics. It usually ends in recovery, though in places it may lead to ulceration and abscess, to fibrous hyperplasia, corrugation and thickening of the mucous membrane, or cicatricial contraction. These are most common in chronic cases (gleet, goutte militaire). Other forms of urethral inflammation are the soft chancre or chancroid (Art. 391), the hard chancre or initial sclerosis of syphilis (Art. 391), and lupous and tuberculous disease. Ulceration is frequent behind the site of strictures, and it readily extends to the urethra from prostatic ulcers. When the ulceration goes deeply fistulous tracts may be formed, leading to urinary infiltra- tion of the surrounding tissue and ultimately to abscesses and permanent urinary fistulae. In the male these fistulae have some- times a very irregular almost labyrinthine course, and open either on the exterior or into the rectum. A not uncommon after-effect of chronic inflammation is the development of polypous and papillary growths, such as the ' cauli- flower excrescences' {condylomata acuminata) or ' caruncles' which appear round the orifice of the urethra in women.