THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCVII. 318 In the first place we have a group belonging to the sarcomata which form soft nodes, or less frequently broad flattened growths. Their section is marrowy, greyish-white or greyish-red in tint, sometimes almost gelatinous. They are commonest about the base of the brain, more rare on its convexity, still rarer in the pia mater of the cord and telae choroideae of the ventricles: they are either entirely confined to the meninges or encroach somewhat on the nerve-substance. So far as investigations have shown they originate partly in the adventitia of the vessels and partly from the (endothelial) cells which cover the fibrous trabeculae of the arachnoid, subarachnoid, and pia mater. The new-formed cells become highly developed, and resemble the multiform epithelial cells of carcinoma. As they lie in a stroma composed of the meningeal tissues and form dense clusters in its meshes, which look exactly like nests of cancer-cells, the tumour has the appearance of a carcinoma and is often so described. It is however strictly speaking an alveolar sarcoma (nested sarcoma) in type, and its structure and the grouping of its endothelial cells justify us in classing it with the endotheliomata (Art. 161). Endothelioma appears to be the commonest growth met with in the soft membranes, but others also occur from time to time which must be classed as ordinary sarcoma, myxosarcoma, and myxoma; the latter is chiefly found in the pia mater of the cord. The blood-vessels of sarcomatous and myxomatous growths sometimes develope in number and size until they transform these into what we must call angiosarcoma, angiomyxoma, and angio- myxosarcoma. The vessels are wide and thin-walled or narrow and thick-walled, and form networks and complicated coils. The intervascular tissue may be simply fibrous, or mucous, or sarcoma- tous. If it is scanty the tumour assumes the aspect of a simple angioma. Fibroma, lipoma, and chondroma are rare ; but they do occur in the meninges and ventricular plexuses, forming small nodular or lobulated tumours which compress the nervous tissue. Seated at the lower end of the cord they sometimes encircle and compress the nerves of the cauda equina, and lead to their atrophy and degeneration. Another rare growth in the pia mater consists essentially of a coarse fibrous stroma containing wide cysts or cavities filled with lymph. It looks somewhat like a piece of oedematous tissue, but is distinguished therefrom by the abundant development in it of fibrous tissue, which marks it off sharply from the surrounding structure and forms thick septa between the cysts. It is thus a true neoplasm and might be described as cystic lymphangioma or cystic fibroma. In all these growths, but especially in myxoma and in fibroma,