94 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXVII. structure, but are somewhat more cellular. Sometimes the included mucous glands are dilated into cysts (cystic polypi) especially in the antrum of Highmore, or these glands are enlarged and multiplied as in glandular or adenomatous polypi, or traversed by numerous thin-walled blood-vessels (telangiectatic polypi or ' erectile' tumours). Other polypi consist of oedematous connective tissue and mucoid tissue, and are therefore classed as fibromata and myxomata. They are more translucent than the former, and are usually of a yellowish tint, the mucous polypi being grey or greyish-red. Sarcoma, dense fibroma, osteofibroma, chondroma, osteoma, carcinoma, and mixed tumours of the connective-tissue group, have been met with in the nose. Many of these start not in the mucous membrane but in the periosteum of the nasal bones. The connective-tissue tumours, especially those originating in the periosteum, may reach a considerable size, distending the cavity in which they grow, sometimes protruding from the anterior and posterior nares, and much distorting the face. Carcinoma of the nose is most frequently met with about the anterior nares and is therefore to be classed with the cutaneous forms of cancer. The cancers which originate in the mucous membrane take the form of irregularly nodulated growths, which sooner or later ulcerate. Rhinoliths are calcareous concretions, formed as a rule round some foreign body which has become impacted in the nasal cavity. In rare instances they are due to the inspissation of nasal secre- tions. Maggots or larvae are sometimes hatched in the nose from eggs deposited by various species of Diptera. They may give rise to extensive inflammation and sloughing. (See Morell Mackenzie, Diseases of the throat and nose n London 1884.) Of vegetable parasites bacteria and the Saccharomyces albicans are the commonest. The former are usually innocuous, though in certain cases, as in ozaena, they set up decomposition in the nasal secretions. In tuberculosis and in glanders the characteristic bacilli are found. References on nasal tumours :—Virchow, Kranhhqfte Geschwidste i, in ; Billroth, Ueber den Bau der Schleimpolypen 1855; Mathieu, Les polypes muqueux These de Paris 1875; Thudichum, Polypus in the nose London 1877; Durham, Holmes's Syst. of surgery n London 1883 ; Kohts, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. in; Hopmann, Virch. Arch. vol. 93, Wien. vied. Presse 1883 ; Zuckerkandl, Norm. u. path. Anat. d. Nasenhohle Vienna 1882 ; Lefferts, Internat. encyclop. of surgery v London 1885 ; Morell Mackenzie, Diseases of the throat and nose n London 1884 : the last two give many references to published cases.