THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAR XCIV. 270 schritte d. Med. I (1883); Mendel, Neurolog. Centralb. i (1882); Mautinotti, Sidle degen. sistem. del midollo spin, second., Collezione ital. di medicina (3rd series) 11 and 12, 1885; Langley, Brain vrn 1886. 647. Primary scleroses of the columns of the cord. Primary sclerosis or grey degeneration is a change extending over entire tracts or columns of the spinal cord: it resembles secondary degeneration in its course and results, differing from it however in the apparent absence of any interrupting lesion of the conducting paths. Its essential characters are degeneration of the nerve-fibres and hyperplasia of the connective tissue (sclerosis), but the relations of these are somewhat different from those observed in secondary degeneration. Disintegration of the nerve-elements and increase of the neuroglia begin almost simultaneously and go on side by side: indeed some have regarded the neurogliar hyperplasia as the primary disorder and the degeneration of nerve-substance as secondary to it. There is however no real doubt that the degeneration is the primary and essential feature of the disease. The medullary sheaths are the first to disintegrate, and then the axis-cylinders; the degenerating tract thus loses in succession a number of its fibres, greater or less according to the duration of the affection (Fig. 261). Fat-granule cells (b e) appear, as in all Fig. 261. Sclerosis of the posterior white columns of the cord. (Section treated icith Milller's fluid, haematoxylin, carmine, and perosmic acid, and mounted in glycerine: x 150) a section of normal nerve-fibres d blood-vessel b granule-cells e granule-cells in the lyruph-sheath c neuroglia with nuclei of the vessel d nerve-degenerations, and accumulating chiefly in the lymph- sheaths (d) of the vessels are carried off by these channels. While this is going on the cells of the neuroglia (c) begin to multiply, and as the nerve-elements dwindle and disappear the connective tissue increases and fills their places. Thickening of the vessel-walls also takes place. Sclerosis is commonest in the posterior columns of the cord,