ART. 612.] FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. 167 certain tissue-changes connected with particular inflammatory affections of the lung appear to predispose it to tuberculosis. So far as can be made out by morbid anatomy these are chiefly— caseous necrotic patches, inspissated collections of bronchial secre- tion, and bronchiectatic cavities. The predisposition does not depend on the way in which these morbid changes have been brought about. When the bacilli once gain a settlement the periphery of the caseous node or the wall of the bronchiectatic cavity becomes the seat of a new inflammation which thenceforth exhibits the character of a tuberculous process. The author has for a number of years endeavoured from the anatomical side to make out the early stages of pulmonary tuberculosis, and the above accoimt represents the outcome of his investigations. In Wiirzburg and in Zurich he had to make post-mortem examination of a large number of children and young persons, and so had frequently the opportunity of observing tuberculosis in all its stages, even from the very beginning. He has thus con- vinced himself that in the great majority of cases tuberculosis of the lung begins in the form of solitary nodes or nodular foci. The tuberculous nature of these foci is in general readily determined from the appearance of the parts immediately around them. Recently also Nadwerck and Glaser have demonstrated the presence of tubercle-bacilli in some of the cases collected by the author. The occurrence of secondary tuberculous infection in lungs already diseased appears to follow from the frequently-observed fact that recent tuberculous bronchopneumonia is found side by side with old patches of induration that are devoid of any recognisably tuberculous character, while the bronchiectatic cavities they enclose contain tubercle-bacilli. It must however be granted that a tuberculous lung may recover locally, the disease sometimes leaving behind it patches of induration that possess none of the special characters of tuberculosis. Formerly attempts were made to explain pulmonary phthisis and tubercu- losis as the direct result of a special constitution or predisposition, which reacted in a peculiar way to ordinary irritations. After the communicability of tuberculosis was established stress was always laid on the fact that certain animals are more susceptible of the disease than others, and accordingly the special predisposition of the individual has always been regarded as a principal factor in the genesis of tuberculosis. Since Koch's discovery of the tubercle- bacillus the question of predisposition has fallen somewhat into the background. It appears however unwise to lose sight of what is almost certainly the fact— that many persons are more disposed to become tuberculous than others. This predisposition is either congenital or acquired, and consists either in local alterations of tissue or in the general constitution of the system, that is in peculiarities of the metabolism of the tissues. For instance, diabetic patients are well-known to be very apt to suffer from a fatal form of tuberculous phthisis. Other predisposing conditions are—excessive smallness of the heart in proportion to the lungs and the body generally, poverty of the blood in albu- minoids and water such as follows continued lactation, suppuration, cholera, etc., lesions of the heart limiting the blood-supply to the lungs, contracted thorax, and enfeebled inspiration. Scrofula, that is to say the particular anomaly of constitution which is manifested chiefly by a tendency to chronic catarrh of mucous membranes, also favours tuberculous infection. How exactly these conditions act as predisposing causes of tuberculosis we can hardly at present determine, though all clinical experience goes to show that they are of some importance. In addition to the constitutional predisposition wo have to consider the local predisposition; and it is reasonable to suppose that in the case of the