ART. 631.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 227 fourth ventricle alone may be dilated. In these cases the general dilatation of the cranium does not take place, the enlargement of the ventricle being accompanied by atrophy of the rest of the brain. Extreme hydrocephalus terminates fatally. The less-marked forms are compatible with continued life. But if the dilatation is at all considerable the compressed parts of the brain undergo partial atrophy, that is to say disappearance and calcification of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres. Great dilatation of the fourth ventricle is often accompanied by wasting of the cerebellum, pons, and medulla, or by actual dis- appearance of some parts of them. Slight congenital hydrocephalus, especially if it does not increase after birth, is not altogether incompatible with a subse- quent normal development of the brain. The cause of congenital hydrocephalus is far from clear. Often no morbid changes of an inflammatory kind are to be seen, and it is usually hard to demonstrate any impediment to the outflow of venous blood from the cranium. Occasionally however thickenings of the meninges or of the plexuses are discovered, and these appear to indicate antecedent inflammation. The presence of pus-cor- puscles in the hydrocephalic liquid is a surer indication. Probably in many cases the cause is to be found in some abnormal closure of the communications between the ventricular cavities and the subarachnoid spaces. These have at least in some cases been found obstructed (Hugtjenin, Ziegler). As moreover in such cases the pia mater over the transverse fissures at the base has been denser than usual, it is possible that the circulation in the veins of Galen was impeded. In certain instances hydrocephalus seems to be a result of rickets or of syphilis. When the skull- cavity is not dilated and the brain not compressed, while the ventricle is dilated, it appears natural to assume that the cause of the latter dilatation is the arrested development (aplasia) of the brain. The condition has been described as a dropsy ex vacuo. In unilateral hydrocephalus the foramen of Monro has been found closed. An abnormal collection of liquid in the subarachnoid tissue is called meningeal hydrocephalus. Of the congenital varieties some are simply due to general failure of development (agenesis, Arts. 630, 633), to local aplasia, or to some disturbance of the growth of the brain: the liquid in the meshes of the subarachnoid tissue fills the space which should have been occupied by the brain. The skull is not dilated. In another form however the accumulation of liquid is not preceded by cerebral atrophy or aplasia, and then the brain- substance becomes compressed and the skull more or less dilated. When the brain developes abnormally and its growth is hindered, liquid may collect in the subdural space and so fill out 15—2