29C THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. is an extremely common lesion. It must however be mentioned that not only this form but other chronic inflammations from traumatic injury of the head may lead to progressive paralysis, and that in patients who have died of the latter disease all that is found in some cases is simple non-inflammatory degeneration of the cortex and meninges. It would thus appear that the disordered nutrition and degeneration of the ganglion-cells and nerve-fibres is the essential feature; the inflammatory infiltration and the increase of the fibrous structures serve to indicate the nature of the process (Art. 657) but do not determine the clinical symptoms. Bayle describes progressive paralysis as a chronic arachnitis, Calmeil as chronic periencephalitis, Perchappe as softening of the brain, Tdczek as chronic meningitis, Magnan as diffuse interstitial meningoencephalitis, Mendel as diffuse interstitial cortical encephalitis, Luys as diffuse interstitial sclerosis. Most writers regard the affection as an inflammation corresponding in general to what we have described as chronic meningoencephalitis. The interpretations given to the various morbid appearances differ widely. Thus Mierzejewsky and Voisin regard the fibrils and stellate cells, which are often so markedly visible in the atrophied cortex, as fibrinous. Mendel, Ldbdmoff, Selvili, and others attribute much importance to the stellate cells, and think that they multiply considerably. This can only occur in a very few cases and to a limited extent. As a rule they are not increased in number, but are merely more visible in the absence of the nerve-elements. The statements sometimes made as to multiplication of the ganglion-cells cannot be regarded as proven. It is frequently asserted that in progressive paralysis the pia mater is abnormally adherent to the brain-surface, tearing away the latter as it is stripped off—but the test is of little value. It often fails where there is the most marked change both in pia mater and cortex, and only shows that the brain-substance is abnormally soft: the effect is in part at least due to post- mortem changes. It is better not to try at all to strip off the pia mater, for it renders the brain almost useless for minute examination afterwards. Mierzejewsky and others have affirmed that in this affection filamentous processes and ramified connective-tissue cells are found attached to the vessels of the cortex when isolated : the description is accurate, but the phenomenon is not characteristic, as it is found in connexion with other morbid conditions and even occasionally in healthy brains. Simon, Arndt, Schdle, and Greiff have found in paralytic and other brains patches of clear hyaline substance in the neighbourhood of the vessels. According to Tdczek {Neurolog. Centralb. 1883) in paralytic dementia the medullated nerve-fibres of the cortex are especially apt to be lost, and that chiefly in the island of Reil and Broca's convolution (left inferior-frontal); while the ascending-frontal gyrus, the paracentral lobule, the second-temporal gyrus, and the parietal and occipital lobes are usually free from change. The loss of fibres is first apparent in the superficial layers. In one case of chronic basal meningitis Manz (Graefe's Arch. f. Ophthalm. 1883) met with large endothelial growths in the pial sheath of the optic nerve, the nerve itself being atrophied. On the morbid changes in the brain in progressive paralysis (general paralysis of the insane) :•—Meynert, Viertelj. f. Psych. 1868 ; Westphal, Arch. f. Psych, i; Simon, ibid, n; Greiff, ibid, xiv; Zacher, ibid, xm, xrv; Meschede, Virch. Arch. vols. 34, 56; Tigges, Allg. Zcitschr. f. Psych, xx; Schdle, ibid, xxv; ^Ldbimoff, Virch. Arch. vol. 55, Arch. f. Psych. 1874; Mierzejewsky, Etudes sur les lesions c&e'bralcs dam la paralysis gene'rale Paris 1875, Arch, de physiol. 1876; Voisin, TraiU de la parol, gen. des alie'nes Paris 1879; Mendel, Die progr. Parol, d. Irren Berlin 1880, Berl. klin. Woch. 1882, Neurol. Centralb. 1883 ; Schdltze, Arch. f. Psych, xi; Selvili, Zur path. Anat. d. Dementia parol. In. Diss. Zurich 1876; Ldys, Gaz. me'd. 33, 1876 ; Klebs, Prog. med. Woch. 1879 ; Emminghads, Allg. Psycho- pathologie Leipzig 1878; Tdczek, Dementia paralytica Berlin 1884; Krapelin,