[CHAP. C. PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 334 Such an interruption is most quickly and most completely effected by section of the nerve, and thus in the investigation of peripheral degeneration such intentional or unintentional section plays the chief part. At the cut surfaces of a nerve there quickly appears a button-like protrusion and swelling of a grey or greyish- red tint, together with some gelatinous exudation. In a day or two the segments of the peripheral portion become less refractive, and turbid, and by the third day the medullary and primitive sheaths are deeply indented at the nodes. On the fourth to the sixth day the medulla breaks up into large drops of myeline, and in a few days more there is nothing of it left but droplets and granules of detritus which are ultimately absorbed. The axis-cylinder speedily becomes almost or altogether in- visible, and perishes partly by swelling and vacuolation, partly by breaking up into fragments. In simple uncomplicated section of the nerve the proximal or central end degenerates for a small distance only from the wound, the change stopping at the first or second node of Ranvier. Only when the nerve-end is bruised or otherwise inflamed do some of the bundles degenerate for a greater distance. In such a case the primitive sheath of the degenerate fibres contains a large number of extravasated leucocytes, which in simple section are seldom or never very abundant. Severe crushing or pinching and abiding compression (as from a tumour or a shrinking cicatrix) of a nerve have an effect similar to section, the latter leading to anaemic necrosis or degeneration of the compressed portion. The difference is chiefly in the fact that the interruption is not at once complete, but affects the several strands or bundles in succession. Disease of the anterior horns of the cord and of the motor roots leading to destruction of motor ganglion-cells or nerve-fibres are, like other interruptions of the condiicting tracts, followed by peripheral degeneration: but it must be kept in mind that when the destruction of the ganglion-cells is more gradual the corresponding atrophy of fibres is not so rapid, the medullary sheath wastes by degrees (Fig. 285 b), and within one and the same bundle we may find fibres that are sound, others partially atrophied (b c), and others totally destroyed (dl d2). A second frequent cause of degeneration of the nerves is primary and secondary neuritis, due to traumatic or infective inflammation of the connective-tissue framework (Art. 669), which leads to disturbance of the circulation and nutrition of the nerve or to direct compression of it. Sometimes too haemorrhages give rise to injurious pressure on the nerve-fibres. Lastly, motor nerves atrophy when their muscles are long disused (Fischer), the atrophy being however confined to the peripheral parts: there is no ascending atrophy of such nerves to any extent comparable with the descending atrophy.