CHAPTER XCVII. TUMOURS AND PARASITES. 662. Of the tumours occurring in the brain and spinal cord the gliomata (Art. 145, Fig. 40) claim our first notice. They are commonest in the cerebrum, more rare in the cerebral axis and in the cord: they lie usually close beneath the pia mater. In most cases the outer aspect of the brain-surface remains unaltered, the tumour appearing merely to cause enlargement and discoloration of the affected part, and perhaps some thickening of the meninges. It is seldom that the tumour takes the form of a definite protuberance. On section the neoplastic mass consists sometimes of tissue not a little resembling pale or hyperaemic grey matter in tint and consistence: more commonly however the glioma is grey, greyish- white, greyish-red, yellow, or gelatinous in appearance, or mottled with all these tints and with spots of opaque white and of extravasated blood (Fig. 281 6); its consistence is in parts softer, in parts firmer than that of normal brain-tissue. Frequently it includes numerous vessels distended with blood, and of markedly larger calibre than the ordinary vessels of the part. When the haemorrhages are numerous and extensive they may so stain and disguise the tissue that it looks like a patch of apoplectic extravasation. If the tissue is partly destroyed either by hae- morrhage or by softening the growth encloses cavities filled with turbid white or brown semi-liquid detritus. Cerebral gliomata measure as much as 3 to 8 cm. across, or even more. The surrounding brain-substance is sometimes scarcely marked off from the substance of the tumour, sometimes is quite distinct and even visibly compressed: not infrequently it is softened and may contain cysts of disintegration. The ventricles are as a rule more or less dilated. In the cord gliomatous tumours usually lie close to the central canal and spread thence posteriorly and externally. They are in general elongated, seldom globular, and may extend over a considerable length of the cord. Externally they give the cord a