CHAPTER LXXIII. DISORDERS OF THE BLADDER. 558. The urinary bladder is the temporary receptacle of the renal secretion. When the urine is mingled with abnormal exudations from the blood-vessels, or the products of morbid change in the kidney or its pelvis, these are naturally detained for a certain time in the bladder. Of the formed matters thus occurring in its contents the following are the most important. Red blood-cells or their detritus come either from the kidney or from its pelvis. In the former case they have in general escaped from the glomeruli as a result of disordered circulation (Arts. 523, 527) or of inflammation (Art. 544). They are rarely derived from intertubular haemorrhage. Vascular tumour-growths in the kidney (such as carcinoma or angioma) may also give rise to haemorrhage and haematuria. When a part of the extravasated blood coagulates in the tubules the urine contains dark and opaque granular cylinders containing blood-cells or their remains and known as blood-casts. Haemorrhage from the pelvis of the kidney is generally due to inflammation and erosion caused by renal concretions. White blood-cells appear in the urine in inflammatory con- ditions of the kidney and its pelvis, especially in purulent pyelitis. In chronic suppuration they are for the most part fatty and disinte- grated. In tuberculous and other necrotic affections we find bacilli and necrotic detritus in the urine. Epithelial cells come from the pelvis and from the collecting tubes of the kidney, perhaps too from the loops of Henle and the intercalary tubules. The statement sometimes made—that entire and unaltered epithelial cells from the convoluted tubules escape into the urine—is erroneous. Degenerate cells from the cortex and their detritus are however met with. The pelvic epithelial cells are polymorphous, resembling exactly those of the bladder itself. The renal cells are cylindrical or cubical: when they are in great numbers and cohere into cylinders we have the so-called epithelial casts. In rare cases cancer-cells from a renal tumour are found in the urine.