295 INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. ART. 656.] mater. In the cortex comparatively few vessels are surrounded by masses of cells, and in the white matter perhaps one or two at most. Some of the vessels however show hyaline or fibrous thickening of the adventitial coat. The nerve-substance of the cortex is probably never entirely normal in these cases; though it is not always easy to demonstrate the changes that exist. In very chronic cases it is often visibly atrophied, its depth being diminished to a half or a third of the normal: but the atrophy is far from being always uniform over the affected area, being sometimes most marked in particular convolutions or parts thereof. The atrophied areas are usually pale, seldom reddened, and are occasionally somewhat indurated. As the white matter is at the same time diminished the affected portion of the brain is on the whole perceptibly smaller, and the space left vacant by the shrinking is filled up by liquid collecting in the subarachnoid tissue. Sometimes too the ventricles are dilated and their ependyma beset with granulations (Art. 650). When the atrophy is extreme the brain is sometimes so remarkably shrunken that it weighs less than 1000 grammes. The affection is therefore aptly described as atrophic meningo- encephalitis. The outer layers of the grey matter are usually the most altered. In both pyramidal-cell layers (e f) the number of cells is diminished, and here and there are patches in which all of them have disappeared (g). In sections mounted in Canada balsam the loss of the nerve-elements causes the tissue (normally so densely granular) to look as if it were full of holes and gaps, nothing but a fine scarcely-visible reticulum remaining at certain points. The layer (e) of small ganglion-cells (pyramidal cells) shows this in the most marked way: the neuroglia may be hardly apparent (/), or it shows as a meshwork of glistening fibres (e) interlacing irregularly or disposed in stellate patterns. The points of intersection of the fibres are sometimes occupied by nuclei, and now and then it is possible to demonstrate that the fibres are simply processes of the neuroglia-cells. When the cortex is not visibly thinned the atrophy is slight and hardly to be made out in Canada-balsam preparations. Perosmic acid brings out the fact that some of the nerve-cells are breaking down, with or without the formation of fat-granules. The medullary or white matter of the brain is often in these cases not only shrunken but also interspersed with foci of degeneration. The cord and pia mater is in like manner subject to cellular infiltration: not infrequently there is also present some degene- ration and sclerosis of the pyramidal and of the posterior columns (Arts. 647, 648). In the disease known as paralytic dementia or progressive paralysis, which is characterised by loss of intellectual power, emotional derangement, and illusions, the atrophic form of haematogenous chronic meningoencephalitis