ART. 655.] 291 INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. course of months the zone grows broader and firmer, measuring from 2 to 5 mm. across. This is simply granulation-tissue, which by and by is transformed into cicatricial fibrous tissue. In old abscesses the enclosing membrane is thus made up of an inner granulating layer of cells and vessels and an outer fibrous layer. Once encapsuled or ' encysted' in this way, the abscess slowly grows by the accumulation of pus derived from the granulating membrane: this secretion is probably uot continuous, and in long-standing abscesses must be very slight. The surrounding brain-tissue is compressed, and sometimes atrophies or even degenerates and breaks down. At any moment moreover inflam- matory oedema and fresh cellular infiltration may be set up in the compressed tissue, and these give rise to disturbance of the cerebral functions and often enough lead to a fatal issue. Nor is the danger of perforation into a ventricle or extension to the pia mater by any means removed when the abscess is encapsuled. Cerebellar abscesses may by pressure on the veins of Galen set up dropsy of the ventricles. Recovery from a large abscess is indeed possible only after surgical evacuation of its contents. References on cerebral abscess :—Lebert, Virch. Arch. vol. 10; Schott, Wurzburg. med. Zeitschr. n (1862); Billroth, Arch. d. Heilk. 1862; Hugue- nin, Ziemsseris Cyclopaedia xn; R. Meyer, Zur Path. d. Hirnabscesse In. Diss. Zurich 1867; Maas, Berl. Ein. Woch. 1869 ; Wyss, Jahrb. d. Kinderheilk. iv (1871); Cruveilhier, Anat. pathologique part 33 ; Nauwerck, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxix; Rettelheim, ibid, xxxv 1885 (abscess after empyema); Eiselsberg, ibid, (abscess after sunstroke); Toynbee, Diseases of the ear London 1868 ; Gull, Guy's Hosp. Reports in (1857), Reynolds' Syst. of med. n London 1868; Hayem, Arch, de physiol. 1868. Chronic Meningitis. 655. Secondary forms of chronic leptomeningitis. Chronic inflammation of the cranial or vertebral bones, or of the dura mater, are apt sooner or later to extend to the arachnoid, the subarachnoid tissue, and the pia matter. This extension occurs most commonly in tuberculous and syphilitic disease, though it is also met with in other inflammations, such as for instance are set up by mechanical injury to the bones. The idiopathic inflammation known as internal pachymeningitis, which is characterised by the formation of false-membranes and adhesions on the inner surface of the dura mater, sometimes extends to the inner meninges also. The arachnoid having no vessels of its own is only passively affected by the inflammatory process, and undergoes more or less extensive degenerative changes. In the pia mater on the other hand, and in the vascular portions of the subarachnoid meshwork, inflammatory disturbances of the circulation make their appearance, and lead in the first place to infiltration of the latter tissue and of the arachnoid. The next stage varies with the character of the inflammation. 19—2