67 ART. 549.] HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. bladder, prostate, spermatic duct, or testicle may extend to the kidney by way of the ureter. Acute miliary tuberculosis and chronic localised tuberculosis are the two forms of the affection. Miliary tuberculosis of the kidney is merely a part of a general eruption of tubercle in the various organs of the body. Wherever the tuberculous virus lodges, in cortex or medulla, there appears a small semi-translucent greyish speck, which presently grows into a grey nodule. This then becomes whitish, and is often surrounded by a haemorrhagic areola. The whitish tinge is due partly to infiltrated leucocytes, partly to turbid swelling and necrosis of the epithelium set up by the action of the bacilli. When the cellular infiltration becomes great the renal tissue- elements within the infiltrated area perish. The number of tubercles appearing in the kidney is sometimes very great, sometimes small. Occasionally the tubercles are confined to the region supplied by a single twig of the renal artery. Chronic localised tuberculosis of the kidney begins, like the miliary form, at the spot whither the bacilli have been carried by the blood-stream. This may be either within the parenchyma or in the mucous membrane of the calices or pelvis. At this spot grey nodules are formed, and presently become caseous. In the course of weeks or months they grow into large irregular nodes by progressive marginal infiltration, while new nodules develope in the tissue around. In the mucous membrane of the pelvis the process extends partly as a diffuse infiltration, partly as a nodular eruption. The nodules and the infiltrated tissue ultimately become necrosed and caseous, and presently disintegrate. After a time the kidney appears studded with grey nodules and white opaque nodes, the larger of these being softened and excavated. The medullary papillae are many of them caseous and broken down, the pelvis appears enlarged by the excavations, and in places is continuous with the tuberculous cavities of the parenchyma. The mucous membrane is infiltrated, thickened, and grey, its surface here and there necrotic and covered with yellow sloughing ulcers; or the deeper layers being uniformly infiltrated and thickened, the entire mucous membrane may be transformed into a cheesy broken-down ulcerous mass. The tuberculous process frequently extends to the ureter, transforming it into a more or less gristly tube with thickened walls. The inner surface is either white necrotic and ulcerated throughout its entire extent, or it is grey and infiltrated, and studded with scattered patches of necrosis and ulceration. In the more advanced stages of the disease the kidney appears somewhat enlarged, the capsule adherent, and the surface often rough and irregularly nodulated. Cheesy and granular 5—2