CHAPTER LXX. RENAL OYSTS AND HYDRONEPHROSIS. 551. Renal cysts. When a urinary tubule is obstructed by a uratic deposit, a tube-cast, a cicatricial band, or other cause, the urine may accumulate behind the obstruction and distend its lumen into a cyst. The like may happen to a glomerular capsule when the mouth of its tubule is blocked. Kidneys otherwise normal occasionally contain smooth-walled cysts varying in size from that of a pea to that of a walnut and protruding more or less above the surface of the organ. Cysts are however much more frequently met with in diseased kidneys, and especially in the contracted forms due to cirrhosis and arterioscle- rosis. Thorn states that cysts may also be due to inflammation of the pelvis or calices of the kidney extending by continuity to the stroma of the medullary papillae. In fact it would appear that the compression and obstruction of the tubules resulting from inflam- matory change in the tissue about them lead much more freqixently to the formation of cysts than internal blocking of the lumen by concretions or deposits. Where a certain amount of constriction has already taken place such internal obstruction may no doubt make the occlusion complete. The number of these cysts found in a single kidney varies greatly. Cases occur in which they are so numerous as to occupy the whole organ, mere shreds or septa of renal tissue separating the contiguous cavities (cystic degeneration). The largest cysts met with in kidneys altered by nephritis are about the size of a cherry, the smallest are microscopic. It frequently happens that none are larger than a pea, though in exceptional instances two or miore coalesce to form a single cavity. The larger cysts have thin translucent walls, the inner surface being smooth, and the contents clear or yellowish-brown or slightly blood-stained liquid generally containing urinary salts. The smaller cysts met with in contracted kidneys not infrequently contain a colloid substance. All cysts are lined with epithelium, the cells being usually flattened, rarely columnar.