177 ART. 616.] FORMS OF BRONCHOPNEUMONIA. When the virus is more gradually disseminated, so that the patient survives for a longer time, the patches become more numerous and increase in size. As a rule they become caseous in the centre (a) and fibrous or fibro-cellular at the periphery. The course of the disease is usually chronic, and it might therefore be described as chronic nodular indurative bronchopneumonia. The groups of grey or greyish-white nodules are arranged in clusters, and in section appear rounded, oval, bifurcated, or trifoliate. This is of course due to the fact that the solid nodular masses represent the terminal branches of a respiratory bronchiole. In the neighbourhood of the nodules there are always a number of obstructed bronchioles with thickened walls, looking on section like encapsuled caseous nodes. At first the bronchopneumonic patches lie bedded in normal air-containing tissue; but after a time the surrounding tissue is usually condensed, indurated, and grey. This is due in the first place to collapse from occlusion of the bronchioles and small bronchi, and secondly to extension from the nodular patches of the inflammatory infiltration and induration, by which the alveolar walls are thickened and the alveoli are filled up with cells and ultimately fibrous tissue. The pigmentation is referable partly to inhaled dust, partly to the small haemorrhages which occur from disturbances of circulation in the diseased area or from rupture of the degenerate vessels that run through it. The rarer form of nodular tuberculosis, nodular caseous bronchopneumonia, is characterised by the formation of small cellular foci, grey or yellowish-white, and rapidly becoming caseous or purulent. The caseous non-vascular nodules are always sur- rounded by a zone within which the alveoli are filled with leucocytes, desquamated epithelium, liquid exudation, and often fibrin, while the lung-tissue itself is infiltrated with small cells. These nodules readily soften and break down, so that little cavities are formed which sooner or later open into the adjacent bronchi. The caseous, indurative, and caseo-fibroid forms of broncho- pneumonia are met with in combination. 616. The processes just described start as a rule in the apices of the lungs, and thence extend downwards and backwards. The apex of a lung may thus exhibit terminal stages of the disease while the bases are still in process of invasion. After a time the parts most affected, in the caseo-fibroid or indurative form of bronchopneumonia, become almost absolutely airless, and hard and knotty to the touch. The pulmonary pleura is usually much thickened and adherent to the costal layer (Fig. 240 a), the lung- tissue is condensed and studded with caseous nodes (be) surrounded either by translucent grey or white or by slaty-grey pigmented fibrous tissue. These nodules are occluded and indurated alveolar ducts with their alveoli (6), or bronchioles with caseous contents s. p. a. 2 12