265 ART. 644.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. or occiput, or a blow on the back of the head or neck, may cause the odontoid process of the axis to press upon the medulla oblongata. The injurious effect of sudden or gradual compression of the cord, apart from any mechanical damage of the tissues, is doubtless due in great measure to disturbance of the circulation, leading to more or less protracted anaemia of the nerve-substance. When this reaches a certain degree of intensity and duration anaemic necrosis and softening are induced. In like manner if the outflow of blood be hindered by the compression we have haemorrhage from venous engorgement. The white matter is the first to soften; the grey matter usually persists for a time, its blood- supply being derived not from the periphery but from the vessels of the longitudinal fissures. According to Kahler six hours after compression the axis-cylinders begin to swell up to such a degree that they sometimes seem to distend and stretch the meshes of the neuroglia. After the second day they begin to disintegrate, often becoming vacuolated in the process. In the first week or two after compression the substance of the cord is white and opaque owing to the quantity of nerve-detritus which is present. Then it becomes more translucent, and at length grey and gelatinous, as the products of disintegration are absorbed. At the same time hyperplasia of the neuroglia sets in, and continues for some months, until the tissue is very considerably increased in amount and in density (Art. 639, Fig. 256). If the haemorrhage has taken place during the process of softening the grey sclerotic tissue is more or less visibly pigmented. Compression of the brain differs in its conditions from that of the cord much as the cranial cavity differs from the spinal canal. Thus if a meningeal tumour slowly encroaches on the space within the cranial cavity room is made for it by an efflux of lymph or cerebrospinal liquid from the brain, the latter so far altering its form as to become indented where the growth presses on it. The brain-substance remains uninjured unless the tumour is of consider- able size: in this case it may cause a localised simple or degenera- tive atrophy. Degeneration is more common in cases of tumour growing within the brain, or of chronic cerebral abscesses, which by pressure on the sound tissue give rise to disturbance of the circula- tion. Sudden encroachments are apt to damage the brain-substance, such for instance as are caused by haemorrhages, or inflammatory exudations into the meninges or ventricles. Even sudden conges- tive hyperaemia may give rise to dangerous intracranial pressure. Increased afflux of blood to the brain, inflammatory exudations, and haemorrhagic effusions determine in the first instance an out- flow of cerebrospinal liquid from the cranium into the spinal canal: sometimes indeed the liquid displaced is so abundant that the inter- vertebral ligaments bulge under its pressure. When however the