ART. 582.] 115 THE BRONCHI. or multiple. Frequently we meet with several varieties of dilata- tion in the same patient. Most frequently the dilatation is due to long-standing inflam- matory affections hy which the strength and elasticity of the bronchial wall is considerably diminished, so that it yields to the internal pressure of the respired air. Such dilatations are usually cylindrical, and are most marked in the lower lobes. When the wall yields unequally, the dilated tube appears sacculated, and its inner surface is irregularly corrugated with annular, oblique, or reticulate ridges and bands. These are simply the circular fasci- culi of the bronchial wall, which retain to some extent their form in spite of the dilatation, the mucous membrane bulging and yielding between them. The mucous membrane is moreover more or less atrophied and infiltrated, the cartilages are often partially dis- integrated and replaced by fibrous tissue, and the orifices of the mucous glands are dilated into small funnels. The epithelium is sometimes little altered; but in other instances it is seen that the columnar cells have become mucoid or detached, so that the surface is lined only with short cubical or club-shaped cells devoid of cilia. This is especially the case where there is much catarrh. Bronchiectasis is especially apt to occur when the branches of an inflamed bronchus are partially impermeable to air, so that the corresponding portion of the lung is collapsed and functionless. The result is that on inspiration the air entering the bronchus is not uniformly distributed; and even if the neighbouring portions of the lung should dilate by way of compensation, as the thorax expands the air which rushes in is still unequally distributed and bears abnormally on the obstructed tube. Adhesions and thick- enings of the pleura and of the interlobular fibrous tissue have often a like effect, inasmuch as they interfere with the equable expansion of the lung, and lead to irregularities in its distribution within the bronchi. Partial atelectasis (Art. 591) persisting after birth acts in the same way. When the pulmonary tissue round a bronchus undergoes contraction, it may in certain circumstances exercise traction on the bronchial wall and cause it to dilate. Lastly, when the bronchial secretion accumulates abnormally in an obstructed tube it may give rise to considerable distension and dilatation. The bronchiectases brought about in the ways just enumerated are seldom fusiform or cylindrical. They are often saccular, globular, or irregular in form, or arranged in a moniliform series. Sometimes in an indurated lung they are so numerous that the latter appears excavated in all directions. In very rare instances we meet with regular cysts filled with mucus, behind a bronchial obstruction. In these dilatations the mucous membrane undergoes changes similar to those just described. Papillary outgrowths are very rarely met with. The exterior 8—2