THE URINARY ORGANS. G [CHAP. LXIV. the aorta near its bifurcation, or from one of the common iliacs, while the veins enter the corresponding parts of the vena cava or iliac veins. This abnormal cohesion and the malposition of the kidneys indicate that the primitive ureters or the corresponding cell- masses were checked in their growth forwards and came early into contact. A normal or malformed single kidney, like the horse-shoe kidney, may be misplaced during development; this condition is referred to as dystopia. It occurs most frequently in the case of the left kidney, which approaches the middle line in the neigh- bourhood of the sacrum. The renal vessels are abnormal in their origin and the ureter is shortened, but the corresponding supra- renal usually occupies its normal position in the abdomen. The kidneys may in like manner be displaced after birth. The right is most often displaced: the cause is to be sought partly in some outward mechanical violence, partly in a loose or extensi- ble condition of the perinephral structures, and especially of the peritoneum. The origin of the renal vessels in such cases is not necessarily abnormal, and the ureter is not abnormally short, though it may be twisted or otherwise disturbed. The kidney is moreover in general readily movable. When the mobility is due to the presence of a mesonephron, or peritoneal fold loosely attaching the kidney to the spine, the case is described as one of floating kidney. It is more common in women than in men, and on the right side than on the left. On congenital renal cysts and tumours see Arts. 551 and 556. References :—Rayer, Maladies d. reins ill Paris 1839 ; Hare, Med. Times and Gaz. 1, 1858 and 1, 1860 ; Rollet, Die bewegliche JYiere Erlaugen 1866; Klebs, Handb. d. path. Anat. i 1870 ; Rosenstein, Virch. Arch. vol. 53; Perl, ibid. vol. 56 (with, references); Gruber, ibid. vols. 33, 68 ; Beuher, ibid. vol. 72; Sawyer, Floating! kidney, Birmingham Med. Rev. 1872; Wolfler, Wien. med. Wochenschrift 1876; Report, Trans. Path. Soc. xxvn (1876); Ebstein, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia xv (1877); Hertz, Virch. Arch. vol. 46 ; Landau, Die Wanderniere d. Frauen Berlin 1882, trans, by Champ- neys (New Syd. Soc.) London 1884; Newman, Glasgow Med. Journal August 1883 (with full bibliography); W. Roberts, Urinary and renal diseases London 1885. 518. Malformations of the ureter and pelvis of the kidney are met with both in normal and in malformed kidneys (Art. 517). The commonest variety is the duplication on one or both sides of the pelvis and first part of the ureter. It is very rare for the pelvis to be further subdivided into a larger number of tube-like calices. The duplication seldom extends throughout the whole length of the ureter so that the tubes open separately into the bladder. They usually run side by side, though cases are on record in which they appeared to cross each other.