ART. 542.] HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. pneumonia. In other cases the epithelium is in parts more obviously affected by the inflammatory process, and cloudy swelling with a tendency to necrosis is observed, especially in the convoluted tubules (Fig. 211 I). According to Nauwerck this occurs chiefly in cases of diphtheria. The affected epithelial cells sooner or later lose their nuclei. The degeneration and necrosis of the epithelium may either be confined to the inflamed region, or may extend beyond it. It is worthy of remark that in certain conditions the epithelium in the inflamed region may be little if at all altered, while in other parts epithelial necrosis has set in. Frequently we find that the cells of the collecting tubes are the most altered, being turbid or disin- tegrated into granular detritus. The glomeruli themselves are as a rule but little affected, except in those cases which tend to issue in suppuration (Art. 543). Sometimes a few of them are partially denuded of their epithelium. Cases also occur in which at an early stage of the inflammation the epithelia of some of the capillary loops become necrosed and denucleated (Fig. 207, Art. 535), and fall away from their attach- ments. The capsules of some glomeruli also contain an exudation which coagulates with alcohol into a granular mass, and contains the desquamated and degenerate glomerular epithelium in the form of transparent vesicular spherules. When haemorrhage takes place, many of the capsules contain blood, which closely surrounds the vascular loops (Fig. 213, Art. 544) and passes down into the corresponding tubules. Varieties of nephritis are met with in which these haemorrhages are from the outset numerous and abundant, so much so that they may throw the interstitial changes quite into the background. In the lumen of the tubules, especially in the loops of Henle, are formed hyaline casts, sometimes enclosing a few scattered nuclei. The tubules bordering on the patches of cellular infiltra- tion also contain leucocytes, which have traversed the membrana propria and lie either within the tubules or in their secreting epithelium. Disseminated interstitial nephritis may coexist with inflamma- tory oedema. The kidney is then more or less swollen, and mottled with red and grey. This condition is met with in con- nexion with various infective diseases, more especially in pneumonia and erysipelas (Nauwerck, Mommsen); and also in scarlatina, diphtheria, pyaemia, and relapsing fever (Ponfick). It may also occur without any antecedent general infection of the system. It issues in recovery, or in localised induration and atrophy, or in suppuration. Ribbert maintains that every interstitial nephritis begins in an in- flammatory change of the glomeruli. Weigert thinks all forms of nephritis begin in epithelial degeneration. Both views are one-sided and apply only to a limited number of cases ; they relegate the essential part of the process to