126 THE EESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXII. they rupture more or less copious haemorrhage ensues, and the cavities together with the bronchi which open into them are flooded with blood. Mechanical injury, like that caused by a bullet or a broken rib, gives rise to bleeding whose amount depends of course on the nature and extent of the wound. In somewhat rare cases pulmonary haemorrhage is referable to a congenital or acquired haemorrhagic diathesis, as in haemophilia, in purpura, or in scurvy; or to infective diseases like scarlatina, typhoid, and small-pox ; or lastly to cerebral disease, especially such as causes disturbance of the respiratory function. In the latter case the bleeding may be very considerable, whole segments of the lung becoming infiltrated and airless. The most marked form of haemorrhagic infiltration or infarction is that which follows thrombosis or embolism of a branch of the pulmonary artery. The infarct is usually subpleural, of a sharply defined conical form, and in the recent state dark brownish-red in colour and firm in consistence. When the blood is somewhat leukaemic the infarct may be greyish-red or greyish- white in colour. The emboli come from the right side of the heart or from the systemic veins and usually lodge at the bifurcation of the arterial branches. The characteristic extravasation takes place when the blood reaching the embolised region from the neighbouring capillaries is insufficient to maintain the circulation. Pulmonary infarcts vary in size from that of a cherry-stone to that of a hen's egg, though occasionally they are much larger. The pleura over a recent infarct is smooth and glistening, but afterwards it becomes turbid and covered with a thin fibrinous film. Embolism of a pulmonary arteriole is not always followed by haemorrhagic infarction, though the arteries are terminal in Cohnheim's sense of the word (Art. 30). Sometimes of course death ensues before there is time for the formation of an infarct, but apart from this the circulation may be maintained by the free influx of blood from the neighbouring capillaries. References on haemorrhagic infarction of the lung :—Virchow, Oesammelte Abhandl. Frankfort 1856 ; Cohnheim, Allg. Path, i Berlin 1882 ; Pandm, Virch. Arch. vol. 25; Willigk, Prager Vierteljahrsschrift L; Gerhardt, Sammlung klinischer Vortrage 91, Gerhardt's Handb. d. Kinderkrankh. Ill; Hamilton, Liverpool med. ehir. Journ. 5,1883; Litten, Berl. klin. Woch. 1882. References on pulmonary haemorrhage in cerebral disease :—Pinel, Be I'hemorrhagic pulmonaire en rapport avec les legions du cerveau These de Paris 1876; Nothnagel, Cent. f. a. med. Wiss. 1874; Jehn, ibid.; Brown S^quard, Lancet 1, 1871 ; Charcot, Legons sur les maladies du syst. nerv. Paris 1875 ; Carr£, Archives gendrales 1877. 590. Blood extravasated into the tissue of the lung is re-ab- sorbed provided the tissue remains otherwise uninjured (Art. 587). The corpuscles dissolve and are taken up in solution, or they break up and pass, either free or enclosed in cells, into the lymphatics. Thence they are carried to the lymphatic glands, or are deposited in the walls of the lymphatic vessels, and give rise to black or