THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. 288 ensues within the first few days the quantity of exudation poured out is very small: sometimes nothing but a circumvascular infiltra- tion of cells can be made out. In more advanced stages the subarach- noid liquid has a turbid whey-like appearance. Both brain and cord are always involved, the cellular infiltration spreading from the pia mater along the vessels or directly to the cortex of the brain and the substance of the cord. In addition to this small patches of inflammation (sometimes haemorrhagic) are invariably found in the interior of the cerebrum : Strumpell says they are usually very numerous. The smallest form mere clusters of cells in the pial sheaths of the vessels, the larger ones are quite extensive cellular infiltrations, and are accompanied by softening of the infiltrated region. If the patient survives these patches may become abscesses. Epidemic cerebrospinal meningitis is thus accompanied by encephalitis and myelitis, and even after cessation of and recovery from the meningeal affection cerebral abscess may be left as a sequela. A second group of purulent inflammations are due to extension from contiguous parts, either by continuity or by way of the blood- vessels or lymphatics. Thus ostitis of a vertebra or of the petrous bone extends directly to the meninges; suppuration of the nose, frontal sinuses, base of the skull, scalp (ulcers, erysipelas, eczema), internal ear, and eye (panophthalmitis) lead to suppuration of the membranes, the various vessels which pass from the bone inwards to the membranes serving as channels of infection. Especially dangerous is puriform softening of thrombi within the veins of the skull or the sinuses of the dura mater. Lastly, purulent inflamma- tion of the brain itself may lead to the like in the meninges. According to some (Fischer, Billroth, Huguenin) simple con- cussion of the brain without any wound of the soft parts or bones occasionally gives rise to purulent meningitis; Huguenin and others say the same may occur after sun-stroke. The inflammation in all these cases will naturally begin where the irritant or exciting cause first acts, that is to say, it begins as a local affection. The wide communication between the several subarachnoid spaces contributes however to the speedy extension and generalisation of the process. Purulent meningitis, especially when it is cerebral, is usually fatal, though in some cases of the epidemic cerebrospinal disease recovery takes place. In the latter event the exudation is in the course of time re-absorbed, but usually certain whitish thickenings of the membranes due to fibrous hyperplasia, and some permanent dilatation of the ventricles, remain as evidence of the attack. Under certain conditions not fully understood the acute inflamma- tion passes into a chronic one, the membranes undergoing cellular infiltration and becoming remarkably thickened. When the inflammation has been mainly confined to the pia mater, it may result in atrophy of the underlying nervous tissues (Art. 656).