THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCI. 206 (Meynert). These traces or memories form the physical substratum of our psychical existence, of our consciousness. The traces are not diffused indiscriminately over the surface of the brain, but tend to become associated with certain parts; and thus the various sensory surfaces and the various groups of muscles come into definite relation with certain definite regions of the cortex. These cortical centres or areas are however not sharply circumscribed, but encroach upon one another at many points. The researches of Bouillaud, Broca, Meynert, Kussmaul, Hughlings-Jackson, Hitzig, Fritsch, Flechsig, Wernicke, Munk, Ferrier, Charcot, Huguenin, Pitres, Lepine, Marcacci, Baumler, Exner, Tripier, Petrina, Kahler, Pick, and others have determined the position of these areas or centres for various functions and movements, and this not only in man but in a number of other animals. Thus it is almost certain that the centre for the co-ordination of the movements of speech is placed chiefly in the inferior-frontal convolution on the left side, and the centre for auditory perception in the first-temporal convolution. Destruc- tion of the former centre involves the loss of power to perform the movements necessary for articulate speech (aphemia or motor aphasia); and on destruction of the latter centre the patient is unable to understand spoken words (word-deafness or sensory aphasia). The centre for visual perception appears to lie chiefly in the angular gyrus and occipital lobe. The motor and sensory centres for the limbs lie in the central convolutions (ascending- frontal and ascending-parietal), the paracentral lobule, and the parts adjoining. Flechsig divides the surface of the brain into three great regions having distinct functions—they are the frontal zone, the parietal zone, and the temporo-occipital zone. The parietal zone contains the starting-points of the direct motor tracts and the terminal-points of most of the sensory tracts: it may therefore be described as the sensory-motor zone. The frontal and temporo- occipital zones have no direct relations to the motor tracts, but are connected with the optic thalamus, the pons, and the cerebellum. Both zones are, he considers, in close relation with the psychical processes, and the parts of them bordering on the parietal zone have an important connexion with the function of speech. The following are a few of the more important works bearing on the anatomy of the brain :—Meynert, Vierteljahrsschrift fiir Psychiatrie I (1867), Anatomie d. Hirnrinde etc. Erlangen 1865, Wiener nied. Jahrb. 1866, Arch. f. Psych, vn (1877), Das Gehirn d. Siiugethiere in Strieker's Gewebelehre 1870 (trans, as Manual of Histology n London 1872), Psychiatry (trans, by Sachs) London 1885 ; Eckeb, Die Hirnwindungen d. Menschen Brunswick 1883 (first edition trans, by Galton, London 1873); Bischoff, Die Grosshirnwindungen d. Menschen Munich 1868 ; Huguenin, Allg. Pathol, d. Nervensystems I Zurich 1873 ; Henle, Nervenlehre Brunswick 1879 ; Schwalbe, Lehrb. d. Neurologic Erlangen 1881 (with very full references); Pansch, Arch. f. Anthrop. in; Flechsig, Die Leitungsbahnen im Gehirn u. Riickenmark d. Menschen Leipzig 1876, Plan d. menschlichen Gchirnes Leipzig 1883 ; Wernicke, Arch.f. Psych.