CHAPTER LXXV. MORBID CHANGES IN THE SUPRARENALS. 565. Malformations of the suprarenals are not common: though sometimes there are more than two or there are small accessory bodies of like structure; or on the other hand they are imperfectly developed or absent altogether. The latter is usually the case only when other malformations of the viscera are present. Fatty degeneration is a normal phenomenon in the adult; it is apparent chiefly in the cells of the cortical layer, which there- by acquire a pale-yellow tint. Amyloid change of the blood-vessels is not infrequent as an accompaniment of amyloid disease in other organs; it may give rise to induration. Pigmentation is a very common occurrence in old age, affecting chiefly the deeper layers of the cortex. The cells are either of a uniform yellow tint or beset with pigment-granules. Haemorrhage is somewhat uncommon, though cases occur in which the extravasation is so great as to cause the organ to swell enormously. It is then due either to mechanical injury, or to vascular disorder. Virchow describes an acute haemorrhagic form of inflammation of the suprarenals. Inflammation of the suprarenals is not frequently observed, though it does occur in various forms. Thus in acquired and in hereditary syphilis cellular infiltrations and gummatous inflam- mations are described. And in other cases inflammation ending in suppuration or in cicatricial induration has been noted. The commonest as well as the most important variety of inflammation is that which terminates in caseous and fibroid degeneration of the gland: in most cases it is apparently of a tuberculous nature. The suprarenals are more or less enlarged, the capsule thickened and adherent to the neighbouring structures. The surface is either smooth or nodular and misshapen: on section the parenchyma appears in great part replaced by dense fibrous tissue enclosing caseous foci of various sizes. These latter may contract or be absorbed, whereupon the organ becomes distorted and shrunken; in other instances they become calcified. The disease is usually bilateral. Sometimes abscesses are formed.