16 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVI. escaped into the tubules and there become dissolved. If the escape of red blood-cells from the glomerular vessels has been recent and unusually abundant the capsules of the malpighian bodies and the tubules connected with them may appear crammed with such pigmentary products of disintegration. In cases of long-standing engorgement where the kidney is indurated, the intertubular connective tissue is increased in amount, the blood-vessels are wide and flaccid, and the walls of the capillaries and the adventitia of the veins are thickened. Many of the epithelial cells of the tubules are fatty and contain oil-globules of various sizes. The cells of the straight tubules of the medulla are especially liable to fatty change. The glomeruli appear for the most part unaltered; though here and there a malpighian body is seen whose contents have become homogeneous and shrunken, while the corresponding tubule is narrow, collapsed, or altogether atrophied (see Art. 525). In engorgement of the kidney the urine is diminished in quantity. The albumen and red blood-cells it contains are derived, according to Cohnheim and Senator, from the capillaries which surround the tubules, the exudation being simply the lymph of engorgement (Art. 24). At a later stage the glomeruli yield a similar albuminous exudation. Cohnheim regards this as due in some measure to the altered relations of pressure, but in a greater degree to morbid changes in the excretory membrane, namely in the glome- rular epithelium. Euneberg on the other hand refers the albuminuria of engorgement to a diminished difference of pressure between the contents of the glomerular vessels and those of the capsule of Bowman. This explanation is quite untenable in view of the experiments of Bamberger, Newman, and others. References :—Robinson, Med. chir. Trans, xxv (1843); Johnson, Diseases of the kidney London 1852 ; Litten and Buchwald, Virch. Arch. vol. 66 ; Cohnheim, Allg. Pathologie n; Perls, Arch. f. exp. Path, vi; Hortoles, Etude du processus histologique des nephrites Paris 1881; Litten, Untersuch. iiber d. haemorrh. Infarct Berlin 1877; Traube, Ges. Abhand. i, n (1871) and in (1878); Weissgerber and Perls, Arch. f. exp. Path, vi; Senator, Die Albuminurie Berlin 1882, trans, by Smith (New Syd. Soc.) London 1884; Posner, Virch. Arch. vol. 79;. Heidenhain, Hermann's Handb. d. Physiologic v; Germont, These de Paris 1883; Runeberg, Deutsch. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxni; Bamberger, Wien. tried. Woch. 1881; Newman, Journ. of Anat. xu; Cornil and Brault, Path, du rein Paris 1884; Roberts, Urinary and renal diseases London 1885; von Noorden, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxvin (1886). 524. In general anaemia, and in contraction of the renal arteries by thickening or spasm of their walls, the blood-supply of the kidney is diminished, and it becomes anaemic. When the anaemia is considerable the organ becomes pale or greyish, and to some extent translucent. When the blood which reaches it is for any reason irregularly distributed the pale tint may appear mottled with redder patches. The first result of renal anaemia is diminution of the urine; when the supply of arterial blood becomes very greatly diminished albuminuria appears. This occurs whether the anaemia be due to general causes (as in cholera), or to local arterial spasm (as in