137 AllT. 597.] PULMONARY INFLAMMATIONS IN GENERAL. (as in catarrhal or purulent inflammation) or of red blood-cells (haemorrhagic exudation). This exudation is always followed by more or less marked desquamation of the epithelium lining the alveoli, alveolar ducts, and respiratory bronchioles. The large nucleated and non-nucleated epithelial plates (Fig. 224* b) are often detached unaltered; when the exudation is sudden and abundant they are often shed in coherent flakes. Oil-globules frequently occur in them (c), usually aggregated around the nucleus (d). The small protoplasmic nucleated epithelial cells are also partially detached; many however remain all but unaltered (e), appearing only a little swollen or studded with fat-granules (/) which to some extent obscure the nucleus. The blood-vessels are at first distended with blood (a), the alveolar septa and walls of the bronchi being saturated with liquid and beset with a moderate number of extravasated leucocytes. The lymphatics also contain some exuded liquid, and the lymphatic glands are swollen. When the onset of the inflammation is less sudden the exudation is at first more scanty, and the epithelial desquama- tion is accordingly less extensive. The lung-tissue when recently inflamed is reddened, contains little air or none, and on pressure yields a more or less turbid grey or greyish-red or even blood-stained liquid. The changes in the pulmonary epithelium and blood-vessels which accom- pany the beginning of inflammation have frequently been the subject of investigation histological and experimental. Experimenters have set up inflammation in the lung either by cutting the vagus nerve or the recurrent laryngeal nerve, or by injecting irritating liquids such as solution of perchloride of iron or solution (1 per cent.) of nitrate of silver. Section of these nerves causes paralysis of the laryngeal muscles, and saliva and other matters get into the air-passages from the mouth. When these are aspirated into the alveoli they set up a local inflammation, which is well-adai^ted for purposes of investigation. References :—Traube, Gesamm. Abhandl. I Berlin 1871 ; Colberg, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. n 1866 ; Friedlander, Untersuch. iiber Lungenentziindung Berlin 1873, Virch. Arch. vol. 68; Fret, Die path. Lungenverdnderungen nach Liihmung d. N. vagi Leipzig 1877 ; Sommerbrodt, Virch. Arch. vol. 55; Veraguth, ibid. vol. 82 ; Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. vn, vm; Cdrschmann, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxn ; Cornil and Banvier, Man. Path. Hist, n London 1884 ; Feld, Experiment. Beitriige z. Schluck- und Vaguspneumonie In. Diss. Bonn 1875 ; Federstack? Ueber d. Verhaltcn d. Epithels a. Lungcn- alveolen bei d. fibrinosen Pneumonie Gottingen 1882 ; Hamilton, Pathology of bronchitis London 1883. 597. When the exudation has reached its highest point the affected tissue is usually devoid of air, the alveoli being filled with the exuded matters and with desquamated epithelium. We may distinguish certain varieties of pulmonary inflammation by the nature of the accompanying exudation. In haemorrhagic inflammation the chief contents of the