283 ART. 651.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. both varieties, and indeed they are genetically equivalent, we should perhaps speak of them as hard sclerosis and gelatinous sclerosis respectively. The genesis of multiple sclerosis (called variously disseminated, insular, focal, or cerebrospinal sclerosis) is still very differently explained by different writers. Some regard the degeneration of the nerve-elements as the primary lesion, others the hyperplasia of the neuroglia : others again describe the process as a chronic inflammation, or affirm that the overgrowth of fibrous tissue starts from the vessel-walls. In the author's own investigations, undertaken specially to determine these questions, he found that in recent cases the degenerative changes were so marked as to admit of no other supposition than that they were primary, and the multiplication of neuroglia- cells secondary. Cases do occur however where no patches of sclerosis can be found in which this pre-eminence of the degenerative changes is clearly apparent : and it is therefore not easy to disprove the statements of Charcot and others who regard the overgrowth of fibrous tissue as the primary cause (by compression) of the degeneration of the nerve-elements. Various facts go to show that forms of cerebrospinal sclerosis occur which are the result of anomalies or disorders of development, and are thus related to the peri- ependymal growths met with in syringomyelia. It is also possible that other forms are due to the formation of multiple foci of inflammation. References on multiple sclerosis :—Leiden, Deutsche Klinik xv 1863 and Klinik d. Ruckenmarksh:; Rindfleisch, Virch. Arch. vol. 26; Zenker, Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. xxiv (1865), D. Arch. f. klin. Med. vm (1870); Charcot, Diseases of the nervous system i London 1876 ; Bodrneville, La sclerose en plaques dissemine'es Paris 1869; Schule, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. vin ; Buchwald, ibid, x ; Otto, ibid, x ; Jolly, Arch. f. Psych, in ; Arndt, Virch. Arch. vols. 64, 68 ; Moxon, Guy's Hosp. Reports xx (1875); Dickinson, Cheadle, Dreschfeld, Med. Times and Gaz. 1, 1878 ; Letden, Charite'- Annalen ni, Arch. f. Psych, vi (sclerosis of bulbar nuclei), Deri. klin. Woch. 1878; Schultze and Rumpf, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1878; Erb, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia xm ; Frommann, Virch. Arch. vol. 54, Normale und path. Anat. d. Neroensystems Jena 1876, Die Geioebsverdnd. bei mult. Sclerose Jena 1879 ; Ribbert, Virch. Arch. vol. 90; Friedmann, Jahrb. f. Psych, iv (1883); Bramwell, Diseases of the spinal cord Edinburgh 1884 (for good figures); Cowers, Lancet 1, 1886 (miliary sclerosis of brain). On ependymal sclerosis and spinal periependymal sclerosis:—Rokitansky, Handb. d. path. Anat. I (trans. Syd. Soc. London 1850); Virchow, Gesamm. AbhandlungenYv&vMovt 1856; Weiss, Oesterreich. med. Jahrb. 1878 ; Magnan and Mierzejewsky, Arch, de physiol. 1873; Leyden, Klinik d. Ruckenmarksh-. ii ; Schultze, Virch. Arch. vols. 70, 87; Friedreich, ibid. vol. 26 ; Kahler and Pick, Arch. f. Psych, vin; Eickholt, ibid, x; Westphal, Brain vi (1883), Arch.f. Psych, xvi (1885); see also Art. 637. On multiple and diffuse sclerosis in infants and children :—von Reckling- hausen, Verh. d. geburtshilfl. Gesellsch. zu Berlin 1863; Neureutter and Steiner, Prager Vierteljahrsschr. f. pract. Heilk. xx (2); Humphreys, Med. Times and Gaz. 2, 1877; Pollard, Lancet 2, 1878; Hartdegen, Arch. f. Psych, xi; Pollack, ibid. xn. 651. When from simple or degenerative atrophy or inflam- matory disturbance of nutrition the nerve-elements belonging to a considerable extent of tissue have perished, a diffuse hyperplasia of the connective tissue often sets in, and in advanced cases gives rise to a continuous induration, or diffuse sclerosis as it is called. This change occurs for instance in simple atrophy of the cerebellar cortex (Art. 640). It is also common in atrophy of the marginal portions of the cord and in atrophy of the cerebral cortex, such as follows grave local disorder of nutrition from chronic inflammation