TUMOURS AND PARASITES. 317 ART. 663.] Fibroma of the central nervous organs is rare: it forms rounded nodes, which in the cord and roots of the spinal nerves are sometimes multiple, especially in cases of multiple fibroma (neuro- fibroma) of the peripheral nerves (Arts. 154, 399, 670). Bidder mentions a case of osteoma in the corpus striatum; it measured several centimetres in diameter. Meschede met with a bony growth in the cerebral hemisphere of an epileptic. Benjamin describes a lipoma in the cerebrum. Secondary growths, sarcomatous and carcinomatous, occur in the brain as in other organs: they usually form rounded nodes or nodules. Klebs maintains (Viertelj.f. prakt. Heilk. 125, 133) that the ganglion-cells take an active part iu the production of gliomatous neoplastic cells, and Heller {Naturforscherversammlung in Freiburg 1883) agrees with him. The author has gone over again his preparations of glioma, but is unable to find any ground for altering the view expressed in Art. 145. The ganglion-cells do indeed swell up considerably, and occasionally a binuclear cell can be seen ; but that is all. As the tumour developes the ganglion-cells break down, and the clusters of neuroglia-cells afterwards found in their place are evidences merely that the latter have multiplied in their neighbourhood. As we remarked in Art. 651 it is not possible to draw a sharp line between glioma and sclerosis. This is especially true of the gliomatous growths occurring round the central canal of the cord, but it also holds of cerebral glioma. Sometimes part of the neoplastic change will appear to be essentially due to increase and induration of the connective tissue, while close by there is an unmistakeable sharply-defined tumour. Probably the smallest sarcomata of the central nervous organs hitherto described were observed some time ago by the author and Dr Andreae in the cord of a lady who had suffered from some ill-defined disturbance of the innerv- ation of the left arm : two nodules of spindle-celled sarcoma 2 and 3 mm. in diameter respectively were found in the left anterior horn of the cervical cord. The author has met with numerous small fibromatous nodules in the nerve-roots and the cord of a patient suffering from multiple fibroma of the peripheral nerves. References : Virchow, Kranhhafte QeschwUlste ; Schuppel, Arch. d. He.ilk. viii 1867 (glioma and gliomyxoma of the cord); K. Hoffmann, Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. xxxiv 1869 (glioma) ; Neumann, Virch. Arch. vol. 61; Th. Simon, ibid. vol. 61; Golgi, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1875 ; Klebs, loc. cit.; Ganguillet, Beitr. z. Kenntniss d. Riickenmarkstumoren Berne 1878; Petrina, Prager Viertelj. 133, 134; Roth, Arch, de physiol. 1878 (diffuse glioma of the cord); Meschede, Virch. Arch. vol. 35; Bidder, ibid. vol. 88; Lebert, TraiU d'anat. path, n; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist. I London 1882 ; Benjamin, Virch. Arch. vol. 14 (lipoma of cerebrum); Schultze, Arch. f. Psych, viii (periependymal angiomatous gliosarcoma of the cord); Meyer and Bayer, Arch. f. Psych, xn (relation of encephalitis to glioma); Gerhardt, Festschrift d. Universitdt Wiirzburg 1882 (glioma); Osler, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xv 1881 ('neuroma' of the brain, rather a heterotopia); Reisinger, Virch. Arch. vol. 98 (glioma of the cord); Glaser, Arch. f. Psych, xvi (angiosarcoma of the cord); Renaut, Oaz. m4d. de Paris 1884 (cerebral glioma); Bard, Lcs tumours du type nerveux, Arch, de physiol. v 1885. 663. The tumours of the internal meninges, the telae choroideae, and the lining membrane of the ventricles are chiefly of the mesoblastic or connective-tissue type, but epithelial or car- cinomatous growths are also met with.