62 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXIX. this fibrous overgrowth and the resulting cirrhosis which is the essential characteristic of the affection. The disease sometimes commences acutely, but its onset is usually very gradual and insidious. In either case the appearance in the stroma of small patches of cellular infiltration is the most important of the initial changes. This infiltration is moreover always accompanied by degeneration of the epithelium, though the extent and intensity of this varies much in different cases, a fact which in the main explains the diverse clinical phenomena exhibited in connexion with the onset of the disease. In like manner there are differences in the amount of inflam- matory oedema accompanying the infiltration, and corresponding differences in the extent to which the kidney is swollen. When the interstitial hyperplasia has continued for some weeks or months cicatricial patches appear, and as they contract give rise to depressions and puckerings of the outer surface of the kidney. These contractions are more or less numerous and extensive according to the extent of the original infiltration. The kidney is either anaemic and pale-grey in tint, or hyperaemic when it appears greyish or brownish red; its size may be normal or increased or diminished; at a later stage it is harder, tougher, and denser than in health. The cortex is always thinned at the site of the cicatrices; elsewhere its thickness may be normal or even increased, but it is never very much increased. The cortex on section has the same tint as the surface. The pale white patches of fatty degeneration may be entirely absent, though not infrequently they may be detected in varying number within the cortical zone. The medul- lary zone is usually redder than is normal. The connective tissue is hardened and overgrown not merely within the cicatrices but also at various points in the deeper layers of the cortex: the secreting structures are atrophied (Fig. 214). The indurated patches lie chiefly in the neighbourhood of the small veins, though they may be distributed irregularly throughout the region of the labyrinth. The first stage of the indurative change is the appearance of the disseminated cellular infiltration (I) of the stroma. Then the intertubular tissue (Jc) becomes more or less notably increased and fibrous: it often becomes thickly beset with small round-cells, or at least the nuclei are much more numerous than usual. The capsules of the glomeruli in the affected region are in general considerably thickened, and appear to be made up of nu- cleated fibrous tissue arranged in concentric layers (a). It is however to be noted that the amount of thickening varies greatly: in some cases it is enormous, in others very slight. The latter is observed in instances where the infiltration is mainly around the small veins, the former where it is more uniformly diffused over the whole of the labyrinth.