321 ART. 663.] TUMOURS AND PARASITES. scales like those of the epidermis. Most authorities assume its endothelial origin; but it seems more likely that its 'pearls' are derived from the epidermic epithelium of the medullary tube, and are thus connected by descent with the external surface. Moreover in rare cases (Ziegler) minute hairs have been found in the mass: and the situation of the tumour points in the same direction, for the places described are such that at the time of the development of the brain primitive epiblastic cells might well remain unelabo- rated, and form the rudiment of a neoplasm at a later stage (Art. 181). Secondary growths of every kind occur in the meninges. It is worth noting that they sometimes spread far and wide in the subarachnoid spaces. Thus a metastatic cancer of the pia mater in the vertebral canal may in course of time encircle the greater part of the cord and infiltrate the cauda equina. Of animal parasites the Echinococcus and Cysticercus are found in the brain and cord. The former takes the form of single or multiple hydatid vesicles of various size, which compress the nerve- substance and lead to softening. The Cysticercus, or measle, is commonest in the meninges of the brain, and appears either in the usual form as a small cyst with its scolex, or as the Cysticercus racemosus, a cluster of large lobulated usually sterile vesicles grouped like grapes around a parent cyst (Arts. 243, 245). We may here make mention of some formations which are not strictly tumours, though in some points resembling them. Aneurysms of the basilar arteries are very common, and reach a consider- able size (see Lebert, Bed. klin. Woch. 1866). Varices are developed chiefly in the pial veins of the cord, and sometimes become so large that they form vascular knots like haemorrhoids, which compress the cord and lead to its degeneration. In the cerebral ventricles are found small nodules seated on the ependyma : they are simply compact fibrinous deposits winch have become partially organised and contain formative cells and capillaries. Many of the growths described as cerebral cancer or epithelioma have no claim to the title. Eberth's and Arndt's epitheliomata of the pia mater were cases of alveolar sarcoma; only those alveolar neoplasms in the develop- ment of which the epithelium of the medullary tube is concerned are to be reckoned as carcinomata. Cornil and Ranvier state (Man. rath. Hist. I London 1882) that brain- sand arises from buds or off-shoots from the vessels, which are made up of flattened cells and presently become calcareous. They therefore describe the tumours which are characterised by the abundant presence of the sand as angiolithic sarcomata. It is doubtful whether all brain-sand is of this kind. References on tumours :—Virchow, loc. cit.; Mdller, Virch. Arch. vol. 8 (cholesteatoma), vol. 16 (melanoma); Rokitansky, Handb. d. path. Anat. ir (cholesteatoma, angioma); Lebert, Maladies canrjreuses Paris 1851; Parrot, Arch, de physiol. 1869 (lipoma); Morris, Trans. Path Soc. xxn (angioma); Wii.ks and Moxon, Path. Anat. London 1875 (chondroma); Robin, Journ. de I'anat. et de la physiol. 1869 (endothelioma); J. Arnold, Virch. Arch. vol. 51 (cystic sarcoma telangiectodes); Eberth, ibid. vol. 49 (endothelioma); Arndt, ibid. vol. 51 (endothelioma); Meschede, ibid. vol. 35 (osteoma); Klebs, loc. cit. ; Eppinger, Pragcr Viertelj. 1875 (cholesteatoma); Spaet, Primarcr multipler Epithelkrebs d. Gehirns Munich 1882 ; Rindkleisch, Path. Hist, n London 1873 ; Bernhardt, Beitr. z. Symptom, u. Diagnost. d. Hirngeschiviilste Berlin 1881 ; GanguilJ/ET, loc. cit. (sarcoma of spinal pia mater); Leyden, s. p. a. 2 21