80 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXITI. bladder, and pieces of catheters are occasionally broken off and lost in like manner. Now and then shot and bullets which have penetrated the surrounding parts are found loose in the bladder. 560. The causes which give rise to the formation of concretions in the kidney and its pelvis may also give rise to concretions within the bladder. As we pointed out in Arts. 531 and 532 acid and alkaline fermentations of the urine are frequently the cause of these deposits, in other cases the cause lies in the nature of the food taken. Not uncommonly however we are unable to detect any sufficient cause. Very often indeed the basis of a vesical calculus is a concretion which has passed from the pelvis of the kidney into the bladder, or a foreign body introduced from without. On such a basis solid deposits are formed, usually of triple phosphate and acid phosphate of calcium. The foreign bodies in fact set up vesical inflammation and the products of this undergo alkaline decom- position. Deposits of uric acid and urates are much less common. These deposits take the form of gravel, or of stone. The stone is usually single, and sometimes reaches a very large size. A stone is usually spherical or ovoid, and may be smooth, nodular, tuberculated, rough, or even spiny. When more than one are present they are occasionally facetted or polyhedral. Some stones are hard, some soft and friable. They are often stratified or laminar, and made up of a number of different substances. The presence of a stone generally causes inflammation of the bladder, occasionally ulceration and haemorrhage. As it irritates the bladder it causes it to contract, and sometimes at the same time hinders its evacuation; in this way a stone often leads to hypertrophy of the bladder-wall. At times the stone lies in a diverticulum or sacculation of the bladder, and may there become impacted. Vesical calculi are classified according to their composition. (1) Uric-acid and uratic calculi. Pure uric-acid stones are generally small and hard, and of a yellow red or brown tint. Uratic stones (containing urates of ammonium and magnesium) are seldom pure. The superficial layers are usually composed of calcium oxalate and ammonium-magnesium (triple) phosphate. (2) Phosphatic and calcareous calculi. These consist mainly of calcium phosphate, or of ammonium-magnesium phosphate. Stones consisting entirely of calcium carbonate are very rare. All these stones are white or greyish white. Triple-phosphate stones are soft and friable, the others are hard. (3) Oxalatic calculi, consisting of calcium oxalate, are hard and spiny ; they are brown in colour. (4) Cystine-calculi are soft brownish-yellow and waxy. (5) Xanthine-calculi are red, with a smooth surface and earthy fracture. 561. Inflammation of the bladder or cystitis is in most cases caused by the presence of irritant matters in the urine (Arts. 558— 560), whether due to morbid admixture or to decomposition ; it