THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. XC. 198 Before birth, and in larger numbers during infancy, the thymus contains homogeneous or indistinctly-laminated partially-calcified bodies known as Hassall's concentric corpuscles. They lie chiefly in the centre of the acini, and are composed of cells closely applied to each other like the coats of an onion. Stieda regards these as the remains of the rudimental epithelial structures; Ammann thinks they develope from the stroma-cells or the perithelium of the blood-vessels, or from lymphoid elements whose nucleus and protoplasm have undergone colloid degeneration. The laminated bodies, calcified and uncalcified, break down and disappear during the retrogression of the gland, which is manifested chiefly by the dwindling and disappearance of its cells. Of morbid changes in the thymus the commonest is imperfect retrogression, by which it sometimes persists till the thirtieth or fortieth year. Haemorrhage into the gland is met with chiefly in asphyxia, or in connexion with the haemorrhagic diathesis (Boucher, Bull, de la soc. anat. n 1857; Acland, Lancet 2, 1884 and Trans. Path. Soc. xxxvi 1885). Haematogenous purulent inflammation is usually due to pyaemia and may lead to multiple abscesses or to general suppuration. Suppuration affecting the structures of the neck is apt to extend to the thymus. Nothing is known of chronic indurative change in the gland. Tuberculosis appears in the form of disseminated nodules, and of large caseous foci. Gummatous inflammatory change due to syphilis has been several times described. Primary tumours having the structure of soft or hard lymphosarcoma or of simple sarcoma occur in connexion with general leukaemia and also independently. They appear as soft and marrowy or sometimes moderately firm growths, and at times reach a considerable size. They may compress the air-passages or blood-vessels, or displace the heart or lungs. Eeferences :—Kolliker, Gewebelehre Leipzig 1867, and Entwickelungs- geschichte Leipzig 1879 ; Affanasiew, Arch. f. mikrosJc. Anat. xrv (1877); Friedleben, Die Physiol, d. Thymusdriise Frankfort 1858 ; His, Zeitschr. f. wiss. Zoologie x, xi, and Mensehliche Embryonen I Leipzig 1880; Stieda, Unters. iib. d. gland, thymus gland, thyr. und gland, carotica Leipzig 1881 ; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vol. 3; Gegenbaur, Anatomic Leipzig 1883; Watney, Phil. Trans. ill 1882 ; Ammann, Bcitr. z. Anat. d. Thymus In. Diss. Basle 1882; Dubois, Gaz. me'd. de Paris 1850 (inflammations) ; Depaul, Me'm. de Vacad. de m4d. xvn (inflammations); Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 40 (gumma) ; Lancereaux, Traite" d anat. path, n Paris 1881; Virchow, Kranhhafte Geschvnilste II; Wittich, Virch. Arch. vol. 8 (lymphoma); Steudener, ibid. vol. 59 (sarcoma); Hahn and Thomas, Arch, ge'n&ales 1879 ; Hedenius, Nord. med. Arhiv 24, 1878.