PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CJIAP. cm. 34G pervaded by the Dew tissue, according to its starting-point, and by gradual compression become atrophied and break down. If there is any accompanying nervous hyperplasia it probably takes place by the longitudinal subdivision and growth of pre-existing fibres: the new-formed fibres are at first naked, but some of them receive a medullary sheath in course of time. The commonest neoplasm affecting the nerves is fibroma (Fig. 288): there are two forms—the soft and cellular, and the firm and fibrous. Tumours really deserving the name of neuroma, i. e. consisting essentially of new-formed nerve-fibres, are rare; and still rarer, if they exist at all, are tumours containing new- formed ganglion-cells, though these are described under the name of cellular or ganglionic neuroma. Fibromata incorrectly described as neuromata are solitary or multiple, and in the latter case are congenital or at least appear soon after birth. Obviously the foundation of these structures is laid during foetal life; sometimes their heredity can be demon- strated. They occur in nerve-trunks and on their finest twigs and branches, forming fusiform, nodular, or very elongated thickenings of the nerve or nerves. Sometimes a nerve is found thickened over its whole extent, with perhaps occasional fusiform swellings. The spinal nerves are the most frequent seat of these growths, though they also occur on the cranial nerves. Sometimes all the nerves are simultaneously affected, even the finest branches showing thickenings and knotty swellings. Thus all the branches of the vagus in the lungs and stomach, or those of the sympathetic in the liver, have been described as covered with fibromata, but these cases are very rare. Not infrequently however we find the smaller cutaneous nerves beset with small round or flat usually soft tumours, some being buried in the skin, others protruding. These growths are known as fibroma molluscum (von Reck- linghausen, Art. 399). The cutaneous nodules are often in great numbers and extend over the territory of a particular nerve or over the whole body; they are sometimes accompanied by neuro- fibromata of the internal organs. Sometimes too between the nodules extensive hyperplasia of the subcutaneous and cutaneous fibrous tissue takes place, and large soft masses and folds are thus produced and known as pachydermatocele, elephantiastic mol- luscum, elephantiasis mollis or neuromatous elephantiasis (Art. 399). The smallest growths may only be visible with a lens, the largest are sometimes the size of a kidney or larger. The fusiform or nodose thickening of a nerve is often due to a single tumour; but a nerve-trunk sometimes includes several nodules in its cross-section, some lying in all or most of its bundles (Fig. 288). A central node will give rise to a fibrous tumour surrounded by nerve-bundles and a perineurium: when the fibroma starts in one of the outside bundles it at length appears as if seated on the nerve-trunk.