ART. 641.] SIMPLE AND DEGENERATIVE ATROPHY. 259 (Art. 644) assists the more general causes. Lastly we must recognise as causes of atrophy the many injurious agencies which reach the central nervous system by way of the blood, and so damage its constituent elements. As examples we may mention lead ( Vulpian, Dejerine, Monakow, Popow, and others), and alcohol when taken constantly and for a long time. Gudden (Arch. f. Psych, n, Graefe's Arch. f. Ophthalmologic xx, xxi, xxv, Naturforscherversammlwng in Eisenach 1882) was the first to show that the extirpation of peripheral or central end-organs in young animals is followed by atrophy of the corresponding central or peripheral end-organs respectively and of the conducting tracts. Thus extirpation of one cerebellar hemisphere induces atrophy of the restiform body and its three nuclei on the same side and the olivary body on the opposite side Extirpation of one anterior quadrigeminal body leads to blindness and proportionate wasting of the nerve-fibres of the optic tract on the opposite side. This method enables us to determine the central nuclei, the course, and the connexions of the various cerebral and spinal nerves, and the connexions between the nuclei of the cerebral axis, the cerebrum, and the cord. Forel (Arch. f. Psych, vn), Mayser (ibid.), Ganser (ibid, xm), Furstner (ibid, xn), and Monakow (ibid, xn, xin) have applied the method, and thereby greatly increased our knowledge regarding the nuclei and tracts of the cerebral axis. Monakow (Arch. f. Psych, xn) showed that extirpation of the visual centre in the occipital cortex in new-born rabbits is followed by atrophy of almost the entire visual tract, i.e. the corresponding part of the corona radiata (optic radiations of Gratiolet), the external geniculate body, the lateral (latticed) stratum of the external nucleus of the thalamus, to a less extent the anterior quadrigeminal body of the same side, the chiasma, and the opposite optic nerve. Extir- pation of the eyeball leads to atrophy of the same parts, most marked how- ever in the optic nerve of the same side and in the anterior quadrigeminal body of the opposite side. According to Haab a like atrophy or rather aplasia is met with in cases of anophthalmia. Our knowledge of the secondary degenerations of the visual tract is however still very defective, and minute investigation of the histological changes involved is much to be desired. Probably the first change is a disintegration of the medullary sheath of the nerve-fibres (Ait. 646) : the axis-cylinder appears to persist for a time. Gudden, Schmidt-Rimpler, Pdrtscher, Samdelsohn, Baumgarten, Marchand, and others have shown that atrophy of the optic nerve is after a time accompanied by wasting of the decussating bundles of fibres on the inferior or ventral aspect and of the non- decussating bundles on the dorsal aspect of the optic tract. We do not yet know how far this process of wasting may extend. Samuelsohn followed it to the external geniculate body : Hdguenin states that it extends to the occipital lobe. The descending atrophy induced by destruction of the visual centre in the cortex (hemianopsia) has not been fully investigated. Leber thinks that in adults the trunk of the optic nerve does not atrophy after a cortical lesion, and only after a period of years when it is the optic tract that is destroyed. Hosch (Klin. Monatsbl. f. Atigenheilk. xvi) alone seems to have actually observed atrophy of the optic nerve after destruction of the occipital lobe. It would appear from what we have said above that in the case of the optic nerve we may have an ascending atrophy, but the like has not been observed in the case of other sensory nerves. The only analogue is apparently the atrophy of the posterior columns of the cord observed to follow destruction of the posterior nerve-roots, and we might add the instance of ascending atrophy of the auditory nerve extending to the temporal lobe, which Huouenin describes as having occurred in a patient who had been deaf for many years. Eeferences on ascending atrophy of the visual tract:—Leber, Graefe and 17—2