THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 232 [CHAP. XCII. normal in size the arrangement of the convolutions is so irregular that the typical furrows and fissures that serve as our landmarks can scarcely be recognised. In rare cases the separation of the hemispheres is incomplete (Turner, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol. xii 1878). Asymmetry of the hemispheres, affecting either the anterior or the posterior regions, is not infrequently observed. Smallness of the corpus callosum, the fornix, the thalami, the corpora striata, corpora albicantia, olivary bodies, corpora quadrigemina, etc. have also been described. The cerebellum may be no larger than a walnut, and in such cases the peduncles also are defective. Abnormal smallness or shortness of the cord is known as micromyelia: the various tracts of the cord may likewise be imperfectly developed. The causes of such local ageneses are sometimes undiscoverable; in other cases they are obviously connected with morbid conditions in other parts. A certain amount of hydromyelia, for example, leads to defective development of the posterior columns. Absence of the central convolutions of the cortex results in the absence or degeneration of the pyramidal tracts. Congenital absence of the cerebellum is accompanied by absence of the superior peduncle and of the red nucleus (Flechsig). The loss of any of the peripheral end-organs (Art. 649) results in partial or total atrophy of the corresponding centres in the central nervous system (Gudden). The posterior columns have frequently been found ill-developed (Kahler, Pick, Jaderholm, Schultze), and the like is true of some of the fibres in other tracts (Kahler, Pick, Westphal, Flechsig, Furstner). These forms of aplasia have a special interest, as they are probably the basis of a predisposition to disease of the cord. Heterotopia is a peculiar variety of malformation, in which masses of grey matter are found in abnormal situations. Such masses, in the form of grey nodules, are now and then met with in the ependyma of the ventricles (Virchow, Tungel, E. Wagner, Meschede) and in the subjacent white layer: they measure 1 to 10 mm. across and are sometimes very numerous. They have also been found in the middle of the centrum ovale (Virchow, Meschede), and somewhat resemble in structure the grey matter of the convolutions. Nodules of grey matter are also described (Simon) as rising from the surface of the convolutions themselves in the form of little tumours. Heterotopia of grey matter also occurs in the cerebellum (Pfleger), and lastly these misplaced masses have been found in the white tracts of the cerebral axis and of the cord (Pick, Bramwell, Osler). Most of those hitherto described contained ganglion-cells, but a few rather resembled the substantia gelatinosa of the cord. In the cord they are doubtless nothing more than isolated fragments