204 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAR XCI. has no special name: the median surface of the ascending (frontal and parietal) convolutions that border the central fissure is called the paracentral lobule (Pare). Both are bounded inferiorly by the calloso-marginal fissure (cm), which anteriorly separates the superior- frontal convolution from the convolution of the corpus callosum (gyrus fornicatus or cinguli fc), and posteriorly separates the para- central lobule from the quadrate lobule (or praecuneus PC), the median portion of the superior-parietal lobule. The median portion of the occipital lobe is called the cuneus or cuneate lobule (Cu), and is parted from the quadrate lobule by the parieto- occipital furrow (oc). The calcarine fissure (ca) separates the cuneus from the uncinate gyrus (gyrus lingualis 0*); the latter passes forward and becomes the hippocampal gyrus (IT). Beneath the uncinate gyrus lies the occipito-temporal or colla- teral furrow (ot), and beneath this the occipito-temporal convolution (gyrus fusiformis OT). 625. The mass of the cerebrum consists of cortical or grey matter (Fig. 245 co) and medullary or white matter. The former is of a soft-grey tint and forms the surface layer of all the convolu- tions ; it also occurs at the base of the brain in the masses known respectively as the claustrum (cl), the nucleus amygdalae (na), the caudate nucleus (nc), and the outer portion of the lenticular nucleus. These latter are all connected anteriorly with one another and with the cortical grey matter (anterior perforated space). Posteriorly they are separated by intervening portions of white matter. The grey masses known as the optic thalamus or simply thalamus (th), the subthalamic body or nucleus of Luys (cs), and the inner two-thirds of the lenticular nucleus (nl) do not strictly lie within the cerebral hemispheres but belong to the cerebral axis. The cortical grey matter consists of a delicate fibrous mesh- work (neuroglia) which in the dead brain is finely granular, enclosing a number of multipolar ganglion-cells, and nerve-fibres of various thickness arranged in plexuses and tracts. The medullary or white matter is composed chiefly of medul- lated nerve-fibres devoid of primitive sheaths, all of them originat- ing in the grey substance. The fibres starting from the cortex form bundles which pass into the white centrum ovale of the hemisphere. Those from the central region form the corona radiata, and for the most part pass down to the base of the brain; the others connect the various convolutions with one another and are spoken of as associating or interconnecting fibres. Some of these bundles or tracts have received special names: adjacent convolutions are connected by the fibrae propriae (Grati- OLET); the orbital convolutions of the frontal lobe are connected with the anterior parts of the temporal lobe by the fibres of the uncinate fasciculus, which passes across the bottom of the sylvian