AKT. 589.] DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION IN THE LUNG. 125 pulmonary arterioles may give rise to oedema from obstruction of the capillary circulation. The liquid of pulmonary oedema is always albuminous, and usually poor in cellular elements derived from the blood. The oedema of engorgement not rarely is due to liquid which contains red blood-cells, often in such abundance as to give it a haemo- rrhagic appearance. Epithelial cells are sometimes abundant in the liquid, some- times scanty: they are more or less swollen up. If catarrh is present at the same time, numbers of white blood-cells mingle with the liquid. Where pigmentation of the lung is in process some of these cells contain pigment-granules. Eeferences :—Cohnheim, Allg. Path, i Berlin 1882 ; Welch, Virch. Arch. vol. 72; Posnee, ibid. vol. 79; Falk, ibid. vol. 91; S. Mayer, Wiener Sitzungsber. lxxvii 1878, Prager med. Woch. 14, 1880 j Litten, Berl. klin. Woch. 1882. 589. Haemorrhage from the pulmonary vessels is of very common occurrence and arises from a great variety of causes. In the first place haemorrhage is very frequently a result of engorgement, especially that due to violent inspiratory efforts with obstructed access of air (inspiratory dyspnoea). The quantity of blood which escapes is not usually so great as to cause firm haemorrhagic infarction, but it may lead to the formation of rather large dark-brown patches of infiltrated and airless tissue. When a large quantity of serous liquid transudes with the red blood-cells we have what is called haemorrhagic oedema of the luns- When the air is entirely displaced from the lung-tissue, so that it becomes dark-red and not unlike a soft and very vascular spleen, the condition has been termed splenisation of the lung. It is most commonly a result of gradual cardiac paralysis before death: the blood no longer efficiently propelled accumulates in the deeper parts of the lung and so gives rise to what we might describe as hypostatic haemorrhagic oedema. If as often happens inflammation begins in the engorged region the process is termed hypostatic pneumonia. Extravasation of blood is an exceedingly common accompaniment of pneumonic and bronchopneumonia affections (Arts. 602, 613). In acute inflammations the red blood-cells escape from the vessels with the inflammatory exudation, of which indeed they form a component part. In the later stages of the inflammation, when the pulmonary tissue breaks down, haemorrhage is usually due to the rupture of small or large blood-vessels whose walls have been softened or ulcerated through. In the case of the larger arterial branches the wall usually yields and becomes dilated into a small aneurysm before actual rupture. These aneurysms are most frequently observed on vessels which traverse or lie in the wall of ulcerating cavities. When