THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVI. 160 pulmonary tissue, forming a kind of coarse mesh work with the thickened peribronchial tissue (e). The pulmonary tissue enclosed in the meshes of the septa is more or less compressed, and sometimes becomes entirely collapsed and functionless. Moreover active inflammation may extend from the septa to the alveoli (d) and give rise to infiltration and fibrous hyperplasia in them. Very frequently too the morbid process is associated with evidences of bronchopneumonia, either primary, secondary, or antecedent. The bronchi of the affected region seldom remain entirely healthy. As a rule they are distorted and dilated (e), partly owing to the traction of the shrinking fibrous tissue, partly to the pressure of the air which is irregularly distributed among the alveoli. There is usually also some bronchial catarrh, the mucous membrane both of bronchi (/) and bronchioles (g) being visibly infiltrated. 609. Inflammation of other contents of the thorax or of the abdomen sometimes extends to the lungs. The mediastinal organs, the bronchial glands, the oesophagus, the stomach, and the liver, are the parts most commonly concerned. And according to the character of the primary affection the inflammation of the lung may be purulent or putrid, tuberculous, caseous, or indurative. Thus a tuberculous gland may give rise to tuberculosis of the root of the lung, and an abscess of the liver breaking through the diaphragm may cause suppuration of the base of the lung with purulent pleurisy or empyema. In ulcerative disease of the lung the bronchi may become perforated. A basal abscess, for instance, or a broken down caseous bronchial gland, may rupture into a neighbouring bronchus. If the matters thus evacuated are infective or irritating, and if some of them are aspirated into other parts of the parenchyma of the lung, secondary bronchopneumonia may result (Art. 613). Traumatic lesions of the lung, caused for example by a fractured rib, give rise in the first place to haemorrhage and perhaps entrance of air into the pleural cavity (pneumothorax). If the wound is not contaminated the rent is healed by thrombosis and subsequent cicatrisation. Septic contamination of the wound results in sup- puration and gangrene of the lung.