THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVIII. 38 chiefly in cases where the blood-supply of a region of the kidney is for a time interrupted, and when poisonous matters are excreted through it. Bile, cantharides, chromates, potassium chlorate, have this effect, which is also met with in various infective diseases such as diphtheria, septicaemia, pyaemia, acute yellow atrophy of the liver, etc. It may be confined to a few small parts, or be spread over a number of patches of considerable extent. The affected spots are turbid, grey, and opaque. The cells of" the vascular connective tissue are much less often affected by necrosis than the epithelial cells. Nauwerck makes out that this happens most frequently in the case of the endo- thelium of the capillaries and venules, the cells of which are shed and transformed into pale homogeneous or finely granular masses, sometimes studded with minute spherules, and rounded, elongated, and sausage-like in shape. This change is not however confined to the kidney, but appears simultaneously in the vessels of other organs. Necrosis of the renal connective tissue is most common after long- persistent anaemia, in septic nephritis, and in cases of uratic deposit. The latter occurs in gout; indeed the formation of homogeneous necrotic patches beset with uratic crystals or granules has been held (Ebstein) to be the diagnostic mark of the gouty kidney. Necrosis of the renal structures may also occur idiopathically, as it is called. If the loss of tissue be not great and confined to the epithelium, repair by regeneration is possible. Greater losses, or losses involving the connective tissue, result in permanent atrophy of the parts concerned (Arts. 527, 528). Calcareous salts are occasionally deposited in the necrotic patches, but this is rare. The presence of necrotic tissue may induce inflammation in the contiguous tissue. In other and not infrequent cases the inflam- mation accompanies or even precedes the necrosis; the poison or other agent, which causes necrosis in one part, acting as an irritant in another. This is exemplified in many bacterial affections of the kidney. Necrosis of the glomerular epithelium is always followed by transudation of albumen (Fig. 207 g), which coagulates when the section is treated with various reagents, and sometimes also during life (Art. 533). According to Frerichs diabetes is always associated with a ' glycogenous degeneration' of the epithelium of Henle's loops, the cells swelling up and becoming hyaline. When treated with iodine brown-stained spherules and specks become visible in the protoplasm of the cells. References :—Weigert, Virch. Arch. vol. 72; Lassar, ibid. vol. 77 ; Marchand, ibid.; Schachowa, Untersuch. iib. d. vWemi Berne 1876 ; Cormi,, Gaz. me'd. de Paris 18, 1879 and Journ. de I'anat. 1879 ; Frankel, Zeiisclir. f. klin. Med. n; Litten, ibid, iv ; Kohn, Berl. him. Woch. 1882 ; Ebstein, Die Natur u. Behandlung d. Oicht Wiesbaden 1882, Deut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxvm ; Windle, Dublin Journ. med. sci. 1883 ; Fherichs, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. vi (1883), Ueber den Diabetes Berlin 1884 ; Lebedeff, Virch. Arch. vol.