286 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. condition manifested by thickening of the meninges and permanent and increasing dilatation of the ventricles: this condition is called chronic hydrocephalus, and it sometimes comes on gradually and insidiously, that is to say without any markedly acute onset. Of more common occurrence than these genuine diffuse serous exudations is the localised inflammatory oedema of the brain, cord, or membranes which is set up around foci of purulent, granulating, septic, tuberculous, syphilitic, or traumatic inflamma- tion, or around new growths. When the nervous tissue is the chief seat of oedema it looks moist and glistening, and is softer than in health. There is usually some accompanying circumvascular extravasation of leucocytes, partly in the adventitial sheaths of the vessels, partly in the sur- rounding tissue. Purulent inflammations. 653. Purulent leptomeningitis. Purulent inflammation of the soft membranes (pia mater and subarachnoid tissue) is preceded first by the hyperaemia which is the first stage of all acute inflam- mations, then by serous exudation, and lastly by an extremely abundant accumulation of leucocytes in the circumvascular spaces. The veins, engorged and dilated, show streaks and patches of yellow along their course, and these rapidly extend, owing to the continued extravasation and infiltration. The opacity thus occa- sioned sometimes becomes so dense that the gyri of the brain and the surface of the cord are entirely concealed by it. In simply purulent meningitis the exudation is composed of pus-corpuscles and extravasated liquid. In the sero-purulent and fibrino-purulent forms the exudation has a turbid muddy appear- ance, is more liquid, and contains granules, fibres, and (less frequently) hyaline clots of fibrin. The exudation lies mainly in the clefts and spaces of the pia mater and subarachnoid tissue. The cells covering the trabeculae of the connective tissue are for the most part cast off and degenerate. The veins and venules are thickly surrounded with leucocytes, and their walls penetrated by them. Sometimes the venous channel is crammed with leucocytes, especially towards its periphery; some- times it is plugged with hyaline or granular coagula. When the arteries are surrounded by extravasated cells the adventitial coat is seen to be infiltrated with them, and the like is often true of the middle and inner coats.. The cortex of the brain and the cord are sometimes all but unaffected by the meningitis, being perhaps only slightly moister than usual, though it is frequently possible to demonstrate that changes have here and there taken place in the nerve-elements. In the cord we find swelling and partial disintegration of the axis- cylinders and degeneration in the medullary sheaths and nerve-