[CHAP. CI. 340 PERIPHERAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. The statements of authors concerning the new-formation of the axis- cylinder in divided nerves are very discordant. Waller, Schiff, Rind- fleisch, Cornil, Ranvier, Eichhorst, and others assert that it is due to longitudinal subdivision and growth in length of the old axis-cylinders. Philippeau, Vulpian, Remak, Leegard, Neumann, Dobbert, Daszkie- wicz, and others regard the new cylinder as derived from the peripheral end; Leegard believing that it arises from the nuclei of the neurilemma, Remak from the uninjured and surviving cylinders, Daszkiewicz from the surviving segments of the old and partially degenerate cylinders, Neumann and Dobbert from a protoplasmic mass produced by a chemical transformation of the medullary sheath and axis-cylinder. Nasse, Gunther, Schon and Stein- ruck assert that the new cylinders grow from the old fibres of both ends: Leut, Einsiedel, Weir-Mitchell, Benecke, and Gluck, from the primitive sheaths of both ends; Laveran and Herz refer their origin to the white blood-cells, Hjelt and Wolberg to the cells of the perineurium. As the text shows we incline to the view of those who derive the new nerve-fibres from the old nerves of the central end. The subdivision of the axis-cylinder is the essential part of the process, though it is perhaps not impossible that a new-formation of nerve-fibres may start from the cells or nerve-corpuscles or nuclei on the sides of the sheaths of Schwann. At any rate it is remarkable how frequently in degenerating nerves we find these cells (Fig. • 285 dd^ swollen up and containing several nuclei: sometimes indeed they give off processes which much resemble axis-cylinders (d2). Until we have more information on the subject however it is more probable that these cells form merely the sheaths for the new axis-cylinders. Cattani asserts that new axis-cylinders are formed within the nucleated protoplasmic mass which he has observed filling the primitive sheath of degenerating nerves. The hypothesis that nerve-fibres may grow from granulation-cells or from the connective-tissue cells of the perineurium, endoneurium, or epineurium, is contrary to all histogenetic analogy. The nerves throughout their length are originally outgrowths from the central nervous system (Balfour, Hensen, His, Kolliker, etc.), and it is extremely unlikely that in later life they can arise from indifferent connective-tissue cells : this would be at variance with all our experience on the subject of the regeneration of specific tissues. The authors who have made the assertion do not advance any convincing arguments in its favour. Those who believe that after section of a nerve the axis-cylinders of the peripheral end remain intact assume that the ends of the severed cylinders reunite by the intercalation of a new piece of tissue. Wolberg describes this as taking place by the growth of strings of spindle-cells from the epineurium. When the reunion does not take place till the medullary sheath disintegrates he speaks of the process as regeneration in the strict sense of the term. If reunion takes place before the sheath disappears he speaks of it as union by first intention, and distinguishes a mediate and an immediate variety. In the former the union is brought about by means of new-formed intercalary fibres, in the latter by direct adhesion of the severed ends of the cylinders and primitive sheaths. The existence of the mediate variety he claims to have experimentally proved. Such a union by first intention is very doubtful: Gluck's and Wolberg's experiments do not appear to prove it, and it is probable that mistakes have arisen from the rapid restoration of function that sometimes takes place by means of abnormal nervous anastomoses and supplementary fibres. The secondary or mediate union by means of intercalary fibres appears impossible, the cylinders of the peripheral end being already degenerate : and for the same reason the statements of Gluck and others that a piece of nerve cut from one animal may become united to the two ends of a severed nerve in another must be regarded as resting on error.