[CHAP. LXIX. THE UKINAltY ORGANS. 54 a secondary place. Nephritis may begin in many different ways, and no single scheme can be laid down to which all cases shall conform. References on nephritis following pneumonia :—Wagner, Bout. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxv; Mommsen, Deutsck. med. Woch. 1879 ; Nauwerck, loc. cit.; Jurgensen, Croupbse Pneumonic Tubingen 1883; Friedlander, Fortschritte d. Med. ii 1884 ; Dickinson, Renal and urinary affections in London 1885. References on nephritis after diphtheria, scarlatina, etc.:—Bouchard, Rev. de me'd. 1881 ; Capitain and Charrin, ibid.; Gaucher, Lancet 1, 1881 ; Cornil, Journ. de Vanat. 1879, Practitioner xxviii, xxxn (1882—84); Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 57, Zur Kenntniss bacter. Mycosen Leipzig 1872; Jacobi, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderhrankh. II; Kannenberg, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. I; Klebs, Handb. d. path. Anat.; Klein, Trans. Path. Soc. xxviii (1877); Lepine, Revue mensuelle 1880; Letzerich, Virch. Arch. vols. 47, 52, 55, 61; Leyden, Zeitsch. f. klin. Med. in; Litten, ibid, iv; Markwald, Ueber die Nierenaffection bei acuten Infectionskrankh. In. Diss. Konigsberg 1878; Oertel, Ziemssen's Cyclop, n; Senator, Virch. Arch. vol. 56, Die Albuminuric im gesund. u. Icrank. Zustande Berlin 1882, trans, by Smith (New Syd. Soc.) London 1884; Thomas, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderhrankh. iv; Unruh, Jahrb.f. Heilh. xvn (1881); P. Furbringer, Virch. Arch. vol. 91; Nauwerck, Die Nephritis Jena 1883; Fischl, Beitrage z. Histologic d. Scharlac/miere, Zeitsch./. Heilk. 1883; Leichtenstern, Deutsche med. Woch. 1881; Babes, Arch, de physiol. n (1883); Friedlander, Fortschritte d. Med. i (1883); Art. 540. Atkinson (Amer. Journ. med. sciences 1884) gives a good account (with references) of nephritis from malarial poisoning. 543. Disseminated suppurative nephritis. When a simple disseminated nephritis issues in suppuration, there are formed in various parts of the kidney, especially in the cortex but not infrequently in the medulla also, a number of rounded or linear patches of whitish pus-like matter usually surrounded by a zone of hyperaemia. In other respects the kidney may be almost normal, though there is frequently a certain amount of swelling (from inflammatory oedema) and some grey and red mottling (from disorder of the circulation). The smallest patches (not larger than a millet-seed) are due to a steadily increasing extravasation of leucocytes, which accu- mulate either round the venules or round the capsules of the glomeruli. Suppurative inflammation of the kidney is no doubt in general a result of bacterial invasion. When the micro-organisms settle within the capillary loops of the glomeruli (Fig. 212 a) they first block up the lumina of the vessels, then induce necrosis of the glomerular epithelium (b), and finally necrosis of the glomerulus itself. An inflammatory reaction is thereupon set up around the glomerulus, the first effect of which is an accumulation of extrava- sated leucocytes in the surrounding connective tissue (d). There is also usually a certain amount of exudation from the intertubular venules (/). The epithelium within the affected region as a rule degenerates rapidly (g h). Part breaks up into granular detritus, part becomes necrotic and denucleated, and desquamates. The extravasated leucocytes penetrate the tubules (i), and in a short time the entire region is thickly infiltrated with them. By and by not only the epithelium but the connective tissue breaks down,