[CHAP. XCVI. 310 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. the brain-substance rounded nodes, sometimes as large as a walnut or even a hen's egg. These are sometimes described as solitary tubercles. Their centres are yellowish-white and caseous, being sometimes firm and dense, sometimes soft and semi-liquid, rarely- calcified. Their peripheral parts consist of greyish-red or semi- translucent granulation-tissue, often enclosing typical miliary tubercles. The larger tubercles are developed from the smaller by the continued growth of new granulomatous tissue, sometimes con- taining multitudes of giant-cells, sometimes none at all. It is remarkable that where the inflammatory process is going on the fibrous elements of the brain-tissue often undergo marked hyper- plasia, and form thus a coarse fibro-cellular tissue. Tubercle- bacilli can be demonstrated both in the grey granulomatous zone and in the older portions of the growth. Solitary tubercles are most frequently observed in the cere- bellum and cerebral axis. They act like tumours on the neigh- bouring tissues, giving rise to symptoms of pressure and to disturbance of the circulation both of blood and lymph. The other parts of the central organs may be entirely free from tubercle, though it often happens that tuberculous matter passes from the solitary nodes to the meningeal vessels and gives rise to disseminated and diffuse tuberculous meningitis. It is also of course possible for a fresh infection of the blood to take place, and in consequence a fresh embolic eruption of tubercles. The situation of tuberculosis of the central nervous organs due to extension of tuberculous disease from contiguous parts is of course dependent on the seat of the primary affection. Tuberculous disease of the vertebrae infects the cord and its membranes, tuberculosis of the petrous bone extends in the first place to the temporal lobes and the basal aspect of the frontal lobe. Nodules appear in the affected regions, and these in time may grow into larger nodes. If the virus gain access to the cerebrospinal lymph- channels it may give rise to disseminated tuberculosis. Many authorities (Virchow, Rindfleisch, Bikch-Hirschfeld, etc.) state that meningeal and cerebral tubercles lie usually in the adventitia of the arteries, and there form clusters of cells derived by multiplication from the endo- thelium of the lymphatics. They base this statement on the fact that in tuberculous meningitis collections of cells are foimd in the adventitia of the cortical arteries. This interpretation of the fact is however erroneous. The tubercles are developed from extravasated leucocytes and proliferous connec- tive-tissue cells. The adventitia is affected and takes part in the proliferation only in a secondary way, and what has been described as a tubercle due to periarteritis of a pial vessel is in fact only a fraction of a tubercle growing near the vessel. In other inflammations of the pia mater and cortex we find like cellular infiltrations of the pial sheaths of the vessels, though it must not be overlooked that in tuberculous and syphilitic (Art. 661) inflammations the arteries take part in the cellular hyperplasia to a much greater extent than in other forms of inflammation. The like is true also of the endarteritic processes. References :—Virchow, Cellular Pathology London 1860, Krankh. Gcsch-