130 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXIII. and to some extent pigmented: it is however beyond doubt that much of the black pigment which is ultimately deposited in the collapsed tissue is simply dust and carbonaceous matter inhaled before the bronchi became occluded. Presently the alveolar septa cohere and coalesce, and the tissue is transformed into a more or less compact and continuous mass (carnification). The cohesion of the alveolar walls and the consequent conden- sation and induration of the tissue probably never take place without some slight inflammation, which is either conducted from the inflamed bronchi or set up by the extravasated blood. After a time but few remnants of pulmonary structure can be made out in the collapsed region, and in them the septa are thickened, the few shrunken alveoli are filled with cells, and the epithelium for the most part lost. Other parts (Fig. 221 e) consist of dense and compact fibrous tissue, usually much pigmented and resembling black india-rubber. This condition we may call the cirrhosis of collapse : from the pigmentation which is always present it is often referred to as grey induration. It is most common about the apex of the lung (Fig. 221), where catarrhal obstruction of the bronchi (a) frequently takes place and leads to the collapse of the corresponding alveoli with the changes just described. The occluded bronchi are often hypertrophied (a) and distended with the accumulated secretion (c). The small respiratory bron- chioles (6) are nearly all obliterated. The surface of the condensed portion is always shrunken and distorted, and there are generally adhesions between the pleural surfaces which show that at some time or other inflammation has existed about the parts. The pulmonary tissue lying between the collapsed regions is partly normal (/), partly emphysematous (g); it often includes small islands of collapsed and indurated tissue (e). The bronchi which are still pervious to air are not infrequently dilated (Art. 582). When part of the lung persists in a state of foetal atelectasis, the pulmonary tissue is by degrees transformed into compact unpigmented fibrous tissue, sometimes interspersed (Heller, Feustel) with bits of cartilage and adipose tissue, the obliterated alveoli being represented by a few clusters of epithelial cells. The corresponding bronchi are in general somewhat dilated, so that the unpigmented tissue is traversed by smooth-walled channels and cavities of various sizes: in particular instances these may be as large as a hen's egg. The cavities are lined with cylindrical epithelium, and like other bronchiectases may be the seat of inflammatory change. Heller (Natxirforsch-erversammlung in Freiburg 1883, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxvi 1885) and Feustel (Ueber die .spatcren Schicksale der Atelektasc