[CHAP. XCII. 226 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. Zeitschr. f. Psych, xxvi; Binswanger, Virch. Arch. vol. 87 ; Wille, Arch. f. Psych, x (1880); Chiari, Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk. xv; Ahlfeld, Die Missbil- dungen d. Menschen II (1882); Kirchhofp, Arch. f. Psych, xiii (1882); Sperling, Virch. Arch. vol. 91; Ribbert, ibid. vol. 93; de la Croix, ibid. vol. 97 ; Heydenreich, ibid. vol. 100 ; Eoss, Diseases of the nervous system II London 1883 ; Cleland, Journ. of Anat. and Physiol, xn, xvn. On absence of the corpus callosum :—Paget, Med. chir. Trans, xxix (1846); Sander, Arch. f. Psych, i (1868) ; Jolly, Zeits. f. ration. Med. xxxiv (1869); Huppert, Arch. d. Heilk. 1871; Malinverni, Gaz. delle cliniche 1874, London Med. Record 1874. On rbachischisis see Art. 632. On defects of the spinal cord:—Froisier, Arch, de physiol. 1872 ; Adam- kiewicz, Virch. Arch. vol. 88; Leyden, Klinik d. Riickenmarkskr. I (1874); Flechsig, Ueb. Systemerkrank. Leipzig 1878; Pick, Prager med. Woch. 1880 ; Ross, Brain v (1882). See also Arts. 632, 637. 631. An increased quantity of liquid may collect in the medullary tube or in the ventricles of the brain at any stage of foetal development or after birth. If the accumulation take place very early the development of the brain may be seriously interfered with (Art. 630), its cavities are distended, and the resulting condition is described as congenital internal hydro- cephalus. The liquid most frequently collects in the lateral ventricles, the other cavities being rarely involved. The affection is usually bilateral, though it is sometimes confined to one side. At the time of birth the dilatation is sometimes slight, some- times already considerable, the cranium being visibly enlarged. It often increases steadily until it reaches an enormous size, the skin is stretched and thin, and the subcutaneous veins show through its semi-transparent texture. The cranial bones become widely separated, and even though they grow to an abnormal size they do not keep pace with the distension of the whole. The fontanelles become larger and the sutures wider, and at times accessory bones make their appearance in the fibrous tissues that bridge over these spaces. When death occurs the dura mater and the underlying mem- branes are found stretched to the utmost, the convolutions flattened and depressed, the sulci effaced. The brain-substance forms a mere capsule round the dilated ventricles, the thickness on the convexity of the hemispheres being sometimes not more than a few millimetres. The liquid in the ventricles is clear and colourless or pale- yellow. The ependyma is stretched but not otherwise altered. The basal ganglia are flattened out. The fourth ventricle and the cerebellum are usually unaltered, though the former is sometimes partially dilated. The above is the usual condition of things: in some instances however the distension of the lateral ventricles is less extreme, or it is confined to one or a part of one only. Thus one ventricle may be so distended that it is bounded only by a thin film of membrane, while the other is undilated. In like manner the