224 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCII. more or less malformed: in the gravest variety the brain is represented by a mere pointed vesicle. In slighter cases particular parts are wanting, such as the olfactory nerve and lobe, the corpus callosum, some of the convolutions, etc. The quadrigeminal bodies are often coalescent. The optic chiasma and tracts are sometimes absent, sometimes normal. Between such grave defects and the slightest, involving perhaps merely a portion of one convolution, all intermediate varieties of malformation are met with. The slightest kind of defect occurring on the outer surface of the brain takes the form of shallow depressions or excavations of the gyri, the hollows being lined with pia mater. When entire gyri or considerable portions of gyri are wanting the defects appear as open clefts or funnel-shaped pits or perforations extending some- times to the walls or even into the interior of the ventricles. This condition has been called porencephalia (Heschl). The cavities are lined with pia mater, which is discontinuous only where they communicate with the cavity of the ventricle. The spaces thus formed are in general filled up with liquid collected in the subarachnoid tissue, and are bridged over and enclosed by the arachnoid membrane. In other cases the adjacent convolutions are pressed together over the gap, which then takes the form of a deep cleft or interstice. When the defect is larger (involving it may be a lobe or more) similar conditions obtain. The neighbouring ventricles are seldom of normal size, being usually more or less dilated or showing local sacculations opposite to the missing regions. The surrounding convolutions tend to be arranged radially round the gap as if puckered and drawn into it. The remainder of the brain may be quite normal, but at times the convolutions are abnormally arranged or ill-developed. The basal ganglia on the side of the dilated ventricles are flattened. The cranium is either normal or somewhat asymmetrical. When the brain is imperfect the skull is usually small, but in marked ventricular hydrocephalus it is enlarged. Another variety of partial anencephalia is the absence of some of the deeper structures and especially of the basal ganglia. Thus the corpus callosum and fornix may be wanting or imperfect, and so likewise may the grey commissure of the third ventricle, the corpora albicantia, the corpora quadrigemina, etc. When the corpus callosum is absent the gyrus fornicatus and gyrus hippocampi are usually absent also, and some of the other convolutions are frequently irregular in form or arrangement. The causation of partial anencephalia is not the same in all cases. Porencephalia is probably in many cases due to intra-uterino disorders of circulation, haemorrhages, and inflammations, by which portions of the brain already developed are damaged or destroyed. In favour of this view is the fact—that the brain-substance and the