192 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXIX. improbable that, in cases where the growth does not start from the oesophagus, it is due to the morbid development of embryonic epithelial cells accidentally enclosed in the gland on the closure of the branchial clefts. Of the connective-tissue tumours of the thyroid sarcoma is the commonest, and usually originates in an already-existing goitre. Both round-celled and spindle-celled sarcoma are described, and Wolfler adds to the list of forms—giant-celled sarcoma, angiosarcoma, and alveolar sarcoma. They form irregular nodu- lated tumours extending over a part or the whole of a single lobe, seldom over the entire gland. The cut surface is generally smooth, though the tumour is usually more or less lobulated by the bands of firm fibrous tissue which traverse it. The tint is white or greyish, pink, reddish-brown, or dark-brown, according to the amount of blood present. The latter tint prevails where there are cavernous blood-vessels with haemorrhagic infiltrations. The tumour is more or less firm according as it is fibrous or cellular: the round-celled form is the softest. The acini surrounded by neoplastic tissue often survive a long time. Tumours are described in which muscle-fibres appeared to be included. Secondary growths are set up in consequence of invasion of the lymphatics or blood-vessels. Sarcoma occurs in patients of all ages. Wolfler describes a case of fibroma in a man of 56 ; it took the form of multiple hard nodes of about the size of a walnut. Carcinoma and sarcoma of the thyroid are often included under the term malignant goitre (struma maligna). References :—Virchow, op. cit.; Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 55 ; Eppinger, Prager Viertelj. 1875 ; Kocher, D. Zeitschr. f. Chir. iv ; Kaufhann, ibid. XI, xiv; Lucre, Arch. f. klin. Chir. vm; Rose, ibid, xxm ; W. Muller, Jena. Zeitschr. f. Med. vi 1871; von Winiwarter, Beitr. z. Statistik d. Carcinome Stuttgart 1878 ; Cornil, Arch, de physiol. 1875; Payne, Trans. Path. Soc. xxn 1871; Demme, Jahresber. d. Berner Kinderspitals 1879 and Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderkr. in ; Griffini, Arch, per le scienze mad. iv 1880 ; Pinner, D. Zeitschr. f. Chir. xvn 1882; Braun, LangenbecFs Arch, xxviii ; E. Neumann, ibid, xxm; Bircher, Sammlung klin. Vortrage 222 ; Heath, Med. Times 1879 ; Huguenin, Arch. d. Heilk. xv 1874; Wolfler, loc. cit.; Haward, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxm 1882. 623. In all forms of goitre certain retrogressive changes are apt to take place, and these to a greater or less extent alter the appearance of the growth. Haemorrhages are common, either in the form of small ecchymoses or of large extravasations extending over the greater part of the tumour and giving it a dark-brown tint. They sometimes constitute a large portion of its bulk, and when they occur within thin-walled cysts may lead to their rupture. These extravasations also lead to wide-spread disintegration and necrosis of the tissue of the tumour, forming foci of brown or yellow softening which ultimately take the form of cysts. As we