98 THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXVIII. diphtheritic, and gangrenous inflammations, and upon tuberculous and syphilitic ulcerations. In other cases inflammations of the perichondrium or of the pharynx or tonsils, or mechanical injury, are the inducing cause. The forms of laryngitis which sometimes accompany typhoid, scarlatina, and pyaemia occasionally issue in suppuration. 572. Specific forms of laryngitis. We thus observe that the various forms of laryngeal inflammation result from very various causes, some of them being specific. Certain specific forms are distinguished by no definite characters from the non-specific; but there are others, notably those accompanying some of the infective diseases, which exhibit anatomical lesions more or less definite. The diseases in question are typhoid, small-pox, tuberculosis, syphilis, glanders, and lupus. Typhoid is frequently accompanied by a catarrhal laryngitis marked by epithelial desquamation, ecchymoses, and superficial erosions, and by linear cracks in the mucous membrane, especially about the edges of the epiglottis. Sometimes the posterior surface of the epiglottis, the anterior wall of the larynx, and the vocal cords are covered with a branny slightly adherent ' fur' consisting of dead epithelium, leucocytes, micrococci, and microbacteria. Sometimes too on the false and true vocal cords there are ulcers, the floor and edges of which are beset with bacteria. Eppinger regards these bacteria as the specific organisms of typhoid, and thinks they are the cause of the epithelial necrosis and ulceration: he therefore describes the affection as necrosis mycotica typhosa. The bacteria are very probably the cause of the local destruction of tissue, but it seems highly doubtful that they are the virus of typhoid. Different forms of bacteria are found in the affected spots, and the like changes are produced in affections other than typhoid (Fig. 76, Art. 198). It is therefore probable that different organisms are carried from the mouth, settle in the catarrhal mucous membrane, and there set up destructive changes. Less frequently than the above we find in the larynx of typhoid patients diffuse swellings or miliary nodules, due to intense cellular infiltration of the mucous membrane. Eppinger regards these as specific typhoid lesions analogous to those of the intestine. They occur chiefly at the base of the epiglottis, the false vocal cords, the inner aspect of the arytenoid cartilages, and the anterior attach- ment of the vocal cords: by disintegration of the infiltrated tissue they give rise to erosions with raised borders resembling typhoid ulcers. These ulcers, whether bacterial or infiltrated, may extend both in breadth and in depth, affecting ultimately the perichondrium of the several cartilages. In consequence of this we not infre- quently observe large losses of substance with necrosis of the affected cartilages. The latter occurs chiefly when as sometimes happens the perichondritis becomes suppurative or gangrenous.