THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXV. 140 Cellular infiltration of the lung-tissue is never entirely absent in any pulmonary inflammation; but in some varieties it is slight and transient, in others intense and persisting. There is always in like manner a certain amount of exudation into the lymphatic vessels. The extent of the inflammatory change varies greatly in different cases, and accordingly we have forms described as miliary, nodular, lobular, and lobar. When the inflamed part of the lung is close to the pleural surface, the pleura in general becomes inflamed at the same time. Hyperaemia is first induced, and a more or less abundant exudation is then poured out on the free surface. 598. Terminations of pulmonary inflammation. The most favourable issue is in resolution, the exudation being removed and the altered tissue restored. The exudation may be removed by expectoration, but the greater part is re-absorbed. In many forms of inflammation the pulmonary vessels continue permeable to injections throughout the entire course of the affection (Figs. 225, 226), and the lymphatics in like manner are not permanently obstructed by the inflammatory exudation. Resorp- tion therefore goes on continuously, the exuded matters being carried off directly in a more or less altered condition. Coagulated and cellular exudations must of course become partially liquefied before they can be re-absorbed. This liquefaction is brought about by fatty and mucoid change and by disintegration and breaking up of the cells and fibrin, a turbid pulpy liquid containing granular detritus is thus formed. While the exudation is in process of disintegration within the pulmonary tissue a certain amount of inflammatory action persists, manifested chiefly by the continued extravasation of leucocytes. The leucocytes play a part in the process of resorption by taking up into their protoplasm fragments of the unliquefied detritus and carrying these with them into the lymphatic channels. At the same time the loss of alveolar epithelium is made good by regenerative multiplication of the intact epithelial cells. When the new cells continue to be shed as they are produced we have the condition known as chronic desquamative catarrh. A second but comparatively rare issue is in suppuration. It is characterised anatomically by an extremely abundant accumu- lation of leucocytes within the alveoli and in their walls, together with progressive disintegration and liquefaction of the latter. This destructive process is set up by the presence of some intensely irritant agent, giving rise to ferments which dissolve the pulmonary tissue. A third issue, also not very common, is in gangrene. The conditions for its appearance are—first, extreme disturbance and in parts suppression of the circulation, and secondly, the presence in the affected part of putrefactive micro-organisms. The