THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIII. 240 the products of disintegration of the extravasated blood are for the most part carried off by the circumvascular lymphatics, though granules of pigment frequently lie for a long time embedded in the adventitial sheaths. Our knowledge of the genesis and history of spontaneous haemorrhage in the brain is largely due to Charcot (Les maladies des vieillards Paris 1867, Diseases of old age (New Syd. Soc.) London 1881). He affirms that small or miliary aneurysms (described by Virchow in Virch. Arch. vol. 3; see also Bouchard, Pathology of cerebral haemorrhage London 1872) are always present, and sometimes in great numbers, in cases of arterial haemorrhage. They are due he thinks to periarteritis, which leads to infiltration and thick- ening of the adventitial and pial sheaths, and to atrophy of the muscular coat. The author finds that Charcot's statement applies only to a certain number of cerebral and spinal haemorrhages. The aneurysmal dilatation does not always precede rupture : and as to the cause of the dilatation he agrees with Zenker {Naturforscherversammlung in Leipzig 1872), Eichler (2). Arch. f. hlin. Med. xxn), Coats {Trans, internat. med. congress I London 1881), Lowenfeld {Arbeiten aus dem pathologischen Institut zu Miinchen 1886), and others, that it may be due to atheromatous degeneration, or even to primary degeneration of the muscularis alone. This last is not always of an amyloid nature, as Koth maintained (Corresp. f. Schweizer Aerzte 1874); at least cases occur in which the muscular fibres are either simply absent or exhibit a fatty or hyaline change which gives no iodine-reaction (Paget, Surg. Path. London 1863). The accumulation of cells and the fibrous thickenings in the sheaths of the vessels described by Charcot are doubtless in some instances of a secondary nature. See Charlewood Turner, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxv 1884. The 'miliary dissecting aneurysms' (first described by Kolliker in 1849) are most frequently met with in cases of acute inflammatory congestion. The term is strictly-speaking incorrect, inasmuch as the blood does not collect between the media and the adventitia (Art. 309), but between the vessel-wall and the pial sheath. Both ruptured and unruptured aneurysms of the cerebral vessels may be filled up with white or laminated clot and so become obliterated. 637. Oedema of the brain and cord is characterised chiefly by abnormal moistness of the grey and white matter, so that it has a glistening appearance on section. Owing to the peculiar structure of the central nervous system the dropsical liquid accumulates not so much in the parenchyma of the nerve-tissue itself as in the wide lymph-spaces which it contains. These are chiefly the pial sheaths of the vessels, the ventricles, the central canal of the cord, and the subarachnoid and pial spaces. We thus distinguish oedema of the nerve-tissue from oedema of the pial sheaths of the vessels, of the membranes (hydrojJS meningeus), of the ventricles (hydrops ventricidorum or hydrocephalus internus), and of the central canal (hydromyelia). In dropsy of the sheaths of the vessels the circumvas- cular lymph-spaces are distended with liquid, so that the vessels appear insulated as they run through the tissue. Sometimes small cysts are thus formed (Schlesinger) with a vessel running axially through them. In oedema of the membranes there is always an increase of the subarachnoid liquid, more rarely of that in the subdural space (hydrocephcdios externus). Over the surface of the brain the sulci