64 [CHAP. LXIX. THE UEINARY ORGANS. loops lose their epithelium (c), and are transformed into pale hyaline or finely-granular denucleated (d) structures, which are impermeable by the blood or by artificial injections. DuriDg the progress of the disease the glomeruli excrete albuminous urine, which usually flows off into the tubules; some- times however it coagulates in the presence of the shed epithelial cells and gives rise to the stratified fibrinous and nucleated masses (e), which we have already described as surrounding the glomerular vessels. The albuminous urine often contains extravasated red and white blood-cells. The tubular epithelium undergoes the same forms of degenera- tion as we have described in connexion with parenchymatous nephritis, though the degeneration is usually less intense and less wide-spread: in cases of no very long standing we therefore find the greater number of the tubules still healthy. By the time that new fibrous tissue has been formed at a particular spot, the corresponding tubules are usually advanced in atrophy. The lumen is narrowed, the secreting epithelium repre- sented by small cubical cells lining the walls or lying loose within the lumen (h). Many tubules are empty and collapsed, their epithelium having altogether disappeared (i). The degeneration and atrophy of the tubules is due partly to the disturbances of circulation and nutrition caused by the in- flammatory changes, partly to the destruction of the glomeruli (Art. 524). The contents of the unaffected tubules are the same as in parenchymatous nephritis, though fewer of them contain casts and masses of epithelial detritus. Haemorrhages and pigmentary deposits are likewise less common. Indurative nephritis and the cirrhotic contracted kidney (Art. 548) correspond partly to the form described by clinical observers as true contracted kidney, partly to so-called secondary contracted kidney. The term " true contracted kidney " has been made to include the arteriosclerotic contracted kidney (Art. 526), whose mode of origin is totally different from that of the cirrhotic contracted kidney. Confusion thus arises, and it may therefore be well in future to avoid the use of the clinical term. The term " secondary contracted kidney " is applied to cases which begin acutely. This distinction is valueless from the point of view of the morbid anatomist, as such cases differ in no essential respect from those whose onset is gradual or undiscerned. 548. Terminations of chronic indurative nephritis. When this affection is not speedily fatal from the extension of the accompanying epithelial degeneration, it may lead in the course of months or years to very extreme induration and obliteration of the secreting structures. The kidney is then always diminished in size, often remarkably so; the capsule is adherent; the surface granulated. The ' granulations' may be coarse or fine, regular or irregular (Fig. 215 A). The tint of the protuberant granulations varies greatly,