CHAPTER XCII. MALFORMATIONS OF THE BRAIN AND SPINAL CORD. 630. The cerebrospinal system takes its origin from the medullary tube or canal formed by the infolding of the epiblast along the medullary groove. The cells lining the lumen of this tube become the ciliated epithelium of the central canal and ventricles of the cord and brain, the remaining cells develope into the ganglion-cells and their processes. The rudiment of the brain appears as three primary cerebral vesicles, which are simple dilatations of the anterior end of the medullary tube. The first and third vesicles each divide into two, and thus five vesicles are produced from whose walls the various parts of the brain are developed. From the first vesicle (fore-brain or prosencephalon) are formed the cerebral hemispheres, the corpora striata, the lenticular nucleus, the corpus callosum, and the fornix: from the others, which are known as the inter-brain (thalamencephalon), mid-brain (mesencephalon), hind-brain (epencephalon), and after-brain (metencephalon), are derived the various parts of the cerebral axis and its dorsal stratum. In the region of the after-brain (or medulla oblongata) the medullary tube never completely closes, so that here a communica- tion with the interior of the tube remains open. The development of the fore-brain proceeds rapidly, and the cerebral hemispheres thus produced in the human adult ultimately overlie almost all the rest of the brain. If the formation of the medullary tube from the medullary groove of the embryo is for any reason interfered with, or if the dorsal wall of the tube is imperfectly formed or destroyed, the cerebrum and part of the cerebral axis remain undeveloped, and we have the condition known as total anencephalia. According to Lebedeff the same result may take place if the cranial flexure of the embryo be abnormally sharp. G. St Hilaire, FOrster, and Panum think that the absence of the brain is chiefly owing to an excessive accumulation of liquid in the medullary tube. Dareste and Perls on the other hand are of opinion that anencephalia is due to an abnormal pressure of the head-fold of the amnion on the