AKT. 547.] HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. 61 thelium become fatty and perish, but oil-globules begin to appear in the walls of the glomerular and intertubular capillaries. Often too the advancing fatty degeneration is accompanied by increased cellular infiltration of the connective tissue, so that the intertubular stroma becomes transformed into a series of swollen cellular columns. At an early stage atrophy of the secreting structures begins in the regions most affected. The tubular epithelium may in consequence of the degenerative changes be lost altogether, the denuded tubules becoming therefore collapsed and functionless. This is however by no means invariably the case, for it frequently happens that in the absence of other complications the fatty and desquamated cells are replaced by the regenerative multiplication of the remaining ones. Destruction of the glomeruli is a more serious danger, for it involves not only the suppression of the urinary secretion but also the partial interruption of the intertubular circu- lation. The glomeruli may be rendered functionless by an excessive accumulation of loose epithelium and exuded liquid within their capsules, leading to compression of the capillaries. More commonly however the injury is primary, and due to hyaline swelling of the capillary-walls and in part to thrombosis of their channels. The epithelium always perishes, partly by desquamation, partly by fatty degeneration and disintegration. Sometimes a certain amount of fibrous hyperplasia occurs in the neighbourhood of the obliterated glomeruli, and the capsules thus appear abnormally thickened. These localised atrophic changes in the secreting structures are sooner or later followed by cicatricial contractions of the external surface. They are seldom quite absent in the large white kidney, and in some cases are so numerous as to give the organ a granulated appearance while its volume becomes less than normal. This is of course possible only in cases of long standing, in which the changes in the parenchyma have spread so gradually that its functions have at no time been interrupted. Such cases both in their clinical course and histological characters approach those which we class under the head of renal cirrhosis or indurative nephritis with contraction. Chronic Indurative Nephritis. 547. Chronic indurative nephritis or renal cirrhosis is distinguished anatomically by the fact—that the inflammatory process issues in hyperplasia of the renal connective tissue, and consequent induration or cirrhosis of the parenchyma. In chronic parenchymatous nephritis there is a certain amount of fibrous overgrowth, but this is of altogether minor importance in comparison with the other results of the inflam- matory process. In indurative nephritis on the other hand it is