ART. 528.] DISORDERS OF THE RENAL CIRCULATION. 23 The haemorrhage may be slight and limited to the marginal zone of the region, or it may be great and extend over the whole of it. In the latter case the entire patch becomes uniformly dark- red or mottled with red and grey. Very soon however this appearance changes, the centre of the patch becoming rapidly pale again by the diffusion and absorption of the colouring-matter of the blood. The infarct then closely resembles a simply anaemic patch. In a few days after the embolism the infarct appears as a more or less regularly-shaped wedge or cone of a dull yellowish or greyish tint, surrounded by a zone of haemorrhagic infiltration. Sometimes a narrow white zone intervenes between the latter and the pale centre. This white zone contains vessels filled with plasma and a great multitude of white blood-cells. The base of the cone is always directed outwards, and its apex is rounded off. The size of the infarct depends on the size of the obstructed artery. The smallest may be no larger than a millet-seed; more commonly they are larger, measuring from 4 to 10 mm. at the base, and extending to the middle of the cortex or even to the boundary zone; now and then they are so large as to include a third or more of the whole kidney. The renal epithelium perishes some two hours after the circula- tion ceases (Litten); it becomes homogeneous, or turbid and granular, and ceases to take up staining-reagents. The nuclei become pale and indistinct, and ultimately dissolve or break up into fragments. At first the dead cells retain their normal place and arrangement, but presently some of them break away from their attachment to the membrana propria of the tubule and are transformed into structureless flakes and blocks, or they crumble into amorphous granules. Sometimes a part of the necrosed and detached epithelium becomes calcified. Meanwhile the intertubular connective tissue swells, being pervaded with liquid and blood-cells or granular detritus. The former are met with chiefly in the red marginal zone, the latter in the pale centre. The nuclei of the connective tissue are pale and some of them lose their outline, while the membrana propria of the tubules is more or less swollen The glomeruli remain for a considerable time unaltered, but by and by they too lose their nuclei and are transformed into colourless spherules in which the constituent parts are no longer distinguishable. When blood has escaped from the glomerular capillaries into the capsule and its tubule, the blood-cells may disintegrate into granular masses which form brownish casts of the lumen. But these are never numerous, and are often absent. 528. The changes just described take place of course only in the region where the tissue perishes, that is to say in the central parts and in a portion of the marginal zone of the infarct. This region gradually becomes disintegrated and liquefied, its structural elements losing their distinctness more or less completely.