FOEMS OF PNEUMONIA. ART. 607.] 157 lung in which caseous granulomatous foci develope within patches of inflamed pulmonary tissue or of new-formed and hyperplastic fibrous tissue." Similar foci are often described as met with in post-mortem examinations, but there is little doubt that in most cases they are not due to syphilis. They are in general merely encapsuled patches of bronchopneumonia, dilated bronchi filled with caseous exudations, caseous detritus lying within dilated and thickened lymphatics and surrounded by new-formed fibrous tissue, and so on. Gummata are extremely rare in the lungs of adults; they are commoner in new-born syphilitic infants, and may occur in considerable numbers. When recent they are grey or greyish- white and somewhat translucent; they vary from the size of a pea to that of a hazel-nut. Afterwards the centre becomes white and opaque, and by disintegration may even become excavated. Another form of syphilitic pneumonia in infants gives rise to diffuse cellular inflammation of the lung, often accompanied by desquamation and fatty degeneration of the pulmonary epithelium. The diseased tissue is abnormally hard and white, and the affection has therefore received the name of white pneumonia. Some writers describe a similar form in adults as the result of acquired syphilis, and it is said occasionally to lead to fibroid induration of the lung. According to PANKEITIUS it usually starts from the hilum and extends radially. Others describe as syphilitic certain indurative inflammations starting from the pleura or the interlobular septa. Some of these inflammatory indurations in syphilitic subjects are no doubt due to the specific influence of the disease, but it is very difficult to distinguish them with any certainty. 'We may be sure that many of the indurative changes in the lung set down to syphilis have really no connexion with it, but are due to other causes. The like is true of many of the so-called syphilitic cicatrices of the lung, the pleura, and the interlobular septa. On syphilitic bronchopneumonia see Art. 618. Virchow has expressly called attention to the fact that the diagnosis of syphilitic changes in the lung is of exceptional difficulty: he thinks however that both gummatous and simple irritative inflammations of the lung due to syphilis do occur. Among the latter are certain forms of fibrous pneumonia, pleurisy, and peribronchitis, and of catarrhal and caseous bronchopneumonia. Although of late years much has been published on the subject of pulmonary syphilis it cannot be said that our knowledge of its morbid anatomy has much advanced. Most of the cases described leave room for considerable doubt as to their syphilitic nature. References:—Depaul, Oaz. dcs hdpitaux 1851; Hecker, Virch. Arch. vol. 17, Berl. geburtshiilfl. Oesellsch. vm (1854); E. Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. iv (1863); Forster, Wurzburg. vied. Zeilschr. iv (1863); VON Barensprunq, Hercditiire Syphilis Berlin 1864; Virchow, Virch. Arch. vols. 1 and 15, Krankhafte Gcschwiilste li (1865); Howits, Arch. f. Syphilidologie ill; Andreae, Anat. (Inters, lib. d. Lung. syph. Kinder In. Diss. Wurzlmrg 1875; Schutz, Syphilome d. Lunge, Klebs' Beitriige z. path. Anat. i 1878; Vierling, Dcut. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxi; Colomatti, Arch. f. Derm. u. Syph. V (1878);