[CHAP. LXXI. 74 THE URINARY ORGANS. 555. Calculous pyelitis leads partly to thickening and in- duration of the affected tissues, partly to ulceration. Not in- frequently the inflammation, at least during some part of its course, becomes purulent: occasional haemorrhages are also common. The inflammation sooner or later extends to the renal paren- chyma and leads to swelling and cellular infiltration, terminating in suppuration or in fibroid induration. In either case some portion of the renal tissue is destroyed. The whole of it may perish in extreme cases, leaving nothing but a fibrous sack sur- rounding the original calculus. Perinephritic abscesses also are frequently produced. When calculi of some size become wedged in the ureter the outflow of urine may be interrupted. If in consequence of this a considerable accumulation of urine takes place in the pelvis of the kidney we may have hydronephrosis (Art. 552) superimposed on pyelitis. The retained urine often decomposes and thus intensi- fies the inflammation so that it becomes purulent: in this way pyonephrosis succeeds hydronephrosis. The impacted stone may be gradually urged forward into the bladder by the pressure of the accumulating urine, giving rise to haemorrhage, erosion, and inflammation on its way. The ulcers, whether of the ureter or pelvis, may break through externally and thus enable pus to escape into neighbouring parts, such as for instance the intestine or the bladder. More often however the pus escapes into the perinephric (subperitoneal) cellular tissue, and gives rise to wide-spread suppurative or septic inflammation. Calculous pyelitis is usually unilateral, rarely bilateral. Keferences:—Michaelis, Wien. med. Presse XI; Ebstein, Ziemsserfs Cyclop, xv; Bright, Abdominal tumours (New Syd. Soc.) London 1860 ; Discussion, Internat. med, congress London 1881 and Lancet 1, 1882; J. B. Roberts, Amer. Journ. med. sciences April 1883 (on perinephritic abscess); Roberts, Urinary and renal diseases London 1885.