THE URINAEY ORGANS. 48 [CHAP. LXIX. has thrown much light on the subject, and some of the figures hereafter given are taken from his admirable preparations. The experimental researches on nephritis made by Grawitz and Israel, Ponfick, Lassar, Marchand, Aufrecht, Buchwald, Litten, and others have but slight bearing on the questions raised by the phenomena of nephritis in man. The varieties of renal degeneration set up by the injection or administration of various chemical irritants or by interruptions of the blood-supply, etc. have but distant relation to nephritis proper, and admit of useful comparison with the human affections exactly corresponding to them and with no others. Still less have the degenerations of the kidney induced by ligature of the ureter to teach us concerning the textural changes in human haematogenous nephritis. For this latter we must in the first place look to a careful anatomical investigation of the diseased human kidney. As to the exact significance to be attached to the term Bright's disease we must leave clinical experts to decide. It is essentially a clinical term, and the pathological anatomist may for the present dispense with it. Acute Nephritis. 540. Acute glomerulonephritis. The simplest form of acute nephritis is that in which the inflammatory changes are in the main confined to the glomeruli, the intertubular vessels being but slightly affected. The glomeruli themselves often show no marked histological change; the presence of an albuminous exudation, which coagu- lates by alcohol or by heat and forms a crescentic areola around the glomerular vessels, being sometimes the only evidence that the vessels have been altered. Other glomeruli may be somewhat swollen, or partially denuded of epithelium (Fig. 209 g h; Fig. 213 e, Art. 544). In more severe cases some of the capillary loops are entirely denuded (Fig. 207 d, Art. 535; Fig. 209 Ic; Fig. 212 b, Art. 543), and the vessels look pale, denucleated, and necrotic; r-e Fig. 209. Section through glomerular capillaries in acute nephritis following diphtheria! after nauwerck. (The glomerulus lies near the surface of the kidney: section hardened in alcohol, stained with alum-carmine and eosin, and mounted in Canada balsam: x 450) a nucleus in capillary-wall b swollen and loosened endothelial cell c d endothelial cells with multiple nuclei e glomerular epithelium / disintegrating glomerular epithelium g nucleus of a detached epithelial cell h vesicular (degenerate) epithelial cell i coagulated albumen k denuded capillary-wall