THE URINARY ORGANS. 28 [CHAP. LXVII. Haemorrhagic infiltration is usually due to extravasation of blood from the glomeruli, or more rarely from the intertubular capillaries. As the blood escapes from the capsule of the malpighian body into its tubule (Art. 544, Fig. 213) the infiltration takes the form of reddened streaks and specks of the size of a millet-seed Such extravasations are due partly to disturbances of the circu- lation, partly to alterations or degenerations of the glomeruli; but large haemorrhages from the glomeruli are seldom due to mere disturbances of the circulation, except in the case of embolism. Blood which has escaped from a glomerulus, especially if it is considerable in quantity, usually becomes disintegrated within the tubules, forming granular yellowish or brownish casts of their lumina. After a time yellow or brown pigment granules also appear. As these lie chiefly within the epithelial cells (Art. 544, Fig. 213) we must apparently assume that the pigment is formed in the cells from the diffused colouring-matter of the blood. It is however possible that the cells may take up pigment-granules lying free within the tubules. This secondary condition is referred to as pigmentary infiltration. Blood-cells, whether entire or disintegrated, which reach the pelvis of the kidney through the collecting tubes are in general speedily removed with the urine. It is only when a large intra- renal haemorrhage has taken place, or when the mucous membrane of the pelvis itself is the source of the bleeding, that fibrinous coagula are produced, and then they take the form of tough dirty- white, yellow, or brown clots. If as described in Art. 262 a solution of haemoglobin in the blood-plasma has taken place, the dissolved haemoglobin and methaemoglobin are excreted through the kidney (haemoglobinuria). At the same time we find in the tubules deposits of lustrous reddish-yellow or brownish globules of haemoglobin, yellow and brown pigment-granules, and less frequently red blood-crystals. This form is also described as pigmentary infiltration, but more fitly perhaps as haemoglobin infarction. The pigment-granules are partly deposited as such from the blood, partly precipitated from the dissolved colouring-matter in the process of excretion. In the deeper parts of the kidney these products of disintegration of the blood become aggregrated into brownish granular tube-casts: the globules of haemoglobin form homogeneous pale-yellow casts. A third form of pigmentary deposit, biliary infiltration, is due to the precipitation of yellow or brown amorphous granules and flakes of bile-pigment. It is a result of icteric contamination of the blood. These granules lie for the most part within the epi- thelial cells, especially those of the convoluted tubules. Sometimes crystals of bilirubin are formed; this is most frequently observed in cases of icterus neonatorum. These colouring-matters may give the kidney a dark-brown