THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. 116 [CHAP. LXXX layers of the bronchial wall, and the peribronchial fibrous tissue, are frequently much thickened, especially where there is inflam- matory induration or cirrhosis of the lung. These are sometimes distinguished as hypertrophic bronchiectases. References:—Corrigan, Dublin Med. Journ. 1838; Biermer, Virchow's Handb. d. spec. Path, v, Virch. Arch. vol. 19 ; Buhl, Lmigenentziindung Tuber- culose und Schwindsucht Munich 1872 ; Lebert, Klinih d. Bnistlcrankheiten I; Trojanowskt, Beitrdge z. Lehre von d. Bronchiectasie In. Diss. 1864; Fitz, Virch. Arch. vol. 51; Jurgensen, Ziemssen's Cyclop. IX ; Lichtheim, Arch. f. exp. Path, x 1878; Grancher, Oaz. me"d. de Paris 1878; Leroy, Arch, de physiol. 1879; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist. n. London 1884; Riegel, Ziemssen's Cyclop, iv ; Hamilton, Path, of bronchitis London 1883 ; Heller, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xxxvi 1885. Some authors (Biermer, Riegel, Rindpleisch) state that in bronchiectasis the mucous membrane and the muscular coat frequently become hypertrophied and form papillary outgrowths, but this Ziegler has not been able to verify. The prominent ridges occasionally observed are not of new formation, but are simply those parts of the wall which have not yielded to the dilating forces. 583. Ulceration and perforation of the bronchial wall is due either to inflammation of the internal surface or to ulcerative affections in the surrounding tissues. Purulent, putrid, and tuber- culous inflammations are those most apt to lead to ulceration and perforation from within (Art. 579). Suppuration is especially likely to occur when septic matters are inhaled with the inspired air or when the bronchial secretion undergoes putrefactive changes. The latter takes place in bronchiectases, where the secretion is apt to linger for a con- siderable time. When perforation occurs and the originating inflammation extends to the surrounding parts, the peribronchial tissue and the adjacent lung-tissue become infiltrated, and according to the character of the inflammation undergo caseous or suppurative and putrid disintegration. Caseous or purulent bronchitis thus issues in caseous or purulent peribronchitis, and a bronchiectasis becomes an ulcerated bronchiectatic vomica. The peribronchial excava- tion either lies beside the primary dilatation or surrounds it more or less completely. The destruction of the bronchial wall is at first usually partial, but in time it becomes complete; and the bronchus then appears to open into and terminate at the cavity. The walls of the cavity may appear gangrenous, caseous, or infiltrated and indurated, according to the mode in which it has arisen and the point of time at which the examination is made. Its liquid contents are puriform, putrid, or mixed with fragments of caseous detritus. The putrid liquid contains bacteria, and often spherules of leucin and needles of tyrosin and margarin. The cavity usually increases in size, and that most rapidly when the process is suppurative or gangrenous ; less rapidly when caseation takes place; and least rapidly when the lung is already