ART. 587.] DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION IN THE LUNG. 123 merit chiefly of the dependent parts of the lung (hypostatic engorgement): arterial obstruction causes hyperaemia of the region supplied by the artery (Art. 589), and interference with respiration causes hyperaemia of the lobules which are prevented from acting (Art. 591). When the engorgement is great the affected parts become purple or livid in colour. Passive hyperaemia may give rise to various secondary changes, such as haemorrhage, oedema, dilatation of vessels, and loss of epithelium. Anaemia of the lung may be due to general anaemia. When it is partial it is usually dependent on compression or excessive inflation of the part. After death the blood generally flows from the anterior portions of the lung to the deeper and posterior portions. 587. When in consequence of endocarditis and valvular throm- bosis the mitral orifice is rapidly obstructed and the valve rendered incompetent, the backward pressure and consequent engorgement in the pulmonary veins is apt to be very great, and oedema, haemorrhage, and epithelial desquamation ensue. The oedema is marked by the escape of serous liquid into the alveoli (Art. 588), but in this variety the quantity of liquid is seldom great. The extravasation of blood also is not usually considerable, though there are here and there small haemorrhages recognisable even with the unaided eye: the extravasated blood may fill the alveoli to the exclusion of air. The epithelial desquamation is sometimes slight, but in other cases it is so abundant that the alveoli are all but filled with granular or homogeneous epithelial plates. The king then looks greyish-red, and is abnormally firm to the touch: it contains little air, and in places may be entirely airless. The desquamation of epithelium is due to the transudation of lymph from the capillaries. Mitral disease of long standing, when accompanied by hyper- trophy of the right ventricle and permanent increase of pressure within the pulmonary vessels, leads to the condition known as brown induration of the lung. The organ is larger and firmer than usual, it contains less air, and its tissue is brownish-red and dry, or rarely oedematous. It often contains scattered haemorrhagic patches and spots of brown. The principal changes are dilatation of the vessels and pigment- ation of the tissues. The dilatation is most marked in the capillaries, which protrude into and encroach on the alveolar spaces. The pigmentation of the lung is due to the presence of yellow and brown granules deposited chiefly along the course of the lymphatics in the peribronchial, circumvascular, and interlobular tissues, and also to some extent in the alveolar walls. The granules arc enclosed in stellate, fusiform, or rounded cells or lie free in the tissues. The alveolar epithelium is here and there pigmented. The pigment is derived from the blood. When blood escapes