268 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIV. is followed by a degeneration of certain corresponding tracts, of nerve-fibres, which is called secondary degeneration. It is probably due to the fact that the affected tracts are severed from their 'trophic centres,' or that these latter are destroyed. We have ascending and descending secondary degeneration, according to the direction in which the process advances. Descending degeneration is commonest in the pyramidal tracts (Art. 626, Fig. 246 Pvb Psb), and takes place in all cases in which the motor centres of the cerebral cortex are destroyed, or in which the motor tract as it passes through the corona radiata, the internal capsule, the peduncular region, or the pyramidal columns, is anywhere interrupted. The degeneration extends down to the points at which the motor fibres leave the anterior horns of the cord. In rare cases the ganglion-cells of the anterior horns also are atrophied, and then the motor fibres in the anterior roots of the spinal nerves become degenerate. When the destruction of the cortical centres is incomplete or only superficial it is not usually followed by secondary degeneration. It must however be borne in mind that in insane paralytic patients, in whom extensive superficial atrophy of the motor region of the cortex has resulted from chronic inflammation, we meet with degeneration of the pyramidal tract: this is however probably a secondary disease of the cord rather than a secondary degeneration in the strict sense of the term (Art. 647). When the primary disease is in the cord, and such that the motor tract is entirely interrupted, the anterior pyramidal tract below the affected section becomes atrophied, but only for a distance of one or two centimetres, a few fibres perhaps showing degenerative change for a greater distance. In the case of the posterior columns of Burdach the degeneration extends downward along some fibres as much as six centimetres. The latter are perhaps fibres which enter with the posterior roots and then pass downwards for a certain distance in the substance of the cord (Schultze). According to Charcot when the anterior portion of the internal capsule is destroyed secondary degeneration appears in a bundle of fibres passing through the middle of the crustal stratum of the cms to the pons and probably ending in some of the nuclei of the medulla. Ascending degeneration follows upon destruction of the cord or of the posterior root-fibres of the spinal nerves. If the cord is cut across all the posterior tracts degenerate for a short distance above the point of section, the columns of Goll (Fig. 246^r) al°ne degenerate for a greater distance, namely up to the nucleus of the funiculus gracilis. Destruction of the posterior roots has the like effect. It is thus rendered probable that the columns of Goll have their trophic centre in the spinal ganglion-cells. If the cord is cut in the upper dorsal region the direct