ART. 542.] 51 HAEMATOGENOUS NEPHRITIS. The exudation contains few cells, though it is not unusual to find scattered patches of cellular infiltration (g). When the condition is no longer quite recent the intertubular exudation contains oil-globules. The glomeruli are for the most part not perceptibly altered, though when treated with alcohol traces of coagulable exudation can be made out within their capsules. In some of the glomeruli moreover there is slight swelling and desquamation of the epi- thelium. The tubular epithelium of the cortex and medulla is every- where more or less swollen and loosened (c), in many places it is actually detached (d). Sooner or later fatty degeneration and disintegration of the epithelium becomes apparent. The tubules are at first empty, but presently they are filled with hyaline casts (/), or with granular and fatty epithelial detritus (e). The slighter forms of inflammatory oedema accompany the various infective diseases, such as typhoid fever, and give rise to some swelling and considerable dropsical saturation of the kidney. The more intense forms are seldom met with: they are most common in affections of the nature of pyaemia. The drawing in Fig. 210 was made from the kidney of a patient who died on the tenth day of an acute febrile attack. The disorder was obviously of an infective nature, for the renal inflammation was accompanied by enormous swelling of the spleen, with purulent inflammation in the mediastinum, and later on with purulent pleurisy. 542. Acute disseminated interstitial nephritis is the most common form of acute renal inflammation. The kidney is swollen but little or not at all, and at first the section shows no discoloration whatsoever. Only when the interstitial changes are accompanied by marked degenerative changes do spots and patches of grey or (in fatty degeneration) white make their appearance. Haemorrhage is frequently an early symptom, and gives rise to small punctiform dark-red spots. The diagnosis of this form of nephritis can be made with certainty only by means of the microscope. The cellular infiltration (Fig. 211 m) first makes its appearance around the stellate veins (g) and the interlobular veins (h), and is usually so marked that in stained sections the affected patches can be seen under very low magnifying powers. These patches are usually most abundant in the outer zone of the cortex, and in the boundary zone between the cortex and medulla; the middle parts of the cortex being seldom much affected. The glomeruli which lie within the region of the inflamed veins may be surrounded with infiltrated cells, the latter often accumulating in a dense mass round the glomerular capsule. The connective tissue not lying within this region may be entirely unaffected, though cases occur in which other capillary regions, especially those around the 4—2