CHAPTER LXXXVIII. TUMOURS AND PARASITES OJF THE LUNGS. 619. Primary tumours of the lung or bronchi are rare. Primary carcinoma may occur in the larger bronchi as irregular nodose or papillary growths, starting either in the mucous glands or in the lining epithelium. Similar growths are also met with in the smaller bronchi, and these tend to spread over large portions of the bronchial ramifications. The disease may then extend to the peribronchial lymphatics, whereupon its generalisation takes place with great rapidity, the air-passages both of the part originally affected and of remoter parts becoming studded with white marrowy nodes and nodules. The disease ultimately attacks the interlobular lymphatics and the lymphatic glands. In a third form of carcinoma large solitary nodes appear, of which we cannot say whether they start in the bronchioles or in the alveoli. They enlarge by the continual invasion and filling up of the alveoli at then borders with the cancerous epithelial growth. They also may invade the lymphatics and then extend in the same way as the second form. Chiari has described a nodular adenoma of the mucous glands in the bronchial mucous membrane. Rokitansky, Morgan, Rindfleisch, and others have described cases of fibroma, in which nodules from the size of a hemp-seed to that of a hazel-nut were formed in large numbers around the bronchi. Osteoma also occurs in the form of irregularly-shaped structures with jagged processes, and of rounded nodules of the size of a pea; small globular chondrolipomata (Rokitansky, Chiari), and enchondromata starting from the bronchial cartilages, have also been met with. Of secondary growths examples of each kind that forms metastases at all have been found in the lungs. When the tumour-cells reach the lung as emboli they usually produce rounded nodules having the characters of the parent-tumour. These start from the embolised blood-vessels, and grow by radial extension or concentric accretion, partly invading and partly com- pressing the pulmonary tissue. The lymphatics may likewise be invaded by the growth, which then advances by this channel.