ART. 636.] 237 DISORDERS OF CIRCULATION. to pass out of the cranium and the vertebral canal, while that which remains tends to sink to the parts that are most dependent. Hyperaemia of the white matter is recognisable post mortem only by the distension of the small veins: on section they allow their contents to exude as variously-sized drops of blood. A general reddening of the tissue from dilatation of the capillaries is very uncommon, owing to the fact that the coagulation or post-mortem rigidity of the white matter squeezes most of their contents out of the capillaries, while the non-transparent nature of the coagulated white matter prevents the red tint from shining through. In the grey matter the minuter venules and capillaries may remain filled with blood, the latter giving rise to a diffuse or mottled reddening of the tissue. Anaemia of the central nervous system is manifested by the emptiness of the arterioles and venules of the pia mater, and the pallor of the grey matter. The white matter on section shows few or no drops of blood on its surface. This anaemia of brain and cord may be part of a general anaemia, or may be due to a morbid congestion of other organs or parts of the body (collateral anaemia). Or again it may result from spasmodic contraction, thickening, or other obstruction in the afferent arteries, or to changes within the cranium and vertebral canal which interfere with the entrance of blood, e.g. changes which diminish the space within these bony cavities, such as subarachnoid effusion, dropsy of the ventricles, tumours, haemo- rrhages beneath the dura mater, and so on. Anaemia of the brain and cord is general or local according to the inducing condition. Local anaemia may for instance be caused by closure of a branch of the sylvian artery (middle cerebral), or by the pressure on the cord of a dislocated vertebra or a tumour of the dura mater. References :—Marshall Hall, The nervous system aud its diseases London 1836 ; Munk, Reicherfs Arch. 1853 ; Reynolds and Bastian, Reynold's System of med. ii London 1868 ; Leyden, Ueb. Hirndruch u. Hirnbewegungen, Virch. Arch. vol. 37; F. Jolly, Untersuch. ub. d. Gehirndruck u. d. Blutbeioegung vm Schadel Wurzburg 1871 ; E. Pagenstechee, Exp. Studien iib. Gehirndruck Heidelberg 1871; Althann, Beitrdge z. Physiol, u. Pathol, d. Circulation Dorpat 1871 ; Ackermann, Virch. Arch. vol. 15; Nothnagel, Ziemssen's Cyclopaedia xu ; Landois, Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1867 ; Mosso, Xreislauf d. Blutes im Gehirn Leipzig 1881; MoxoN, Lancet 1, 1881 ; Ross, Diseases of the nervous system n London 1883 ; Adamkiewicz, Wiener Sitzungsber. lxxxviii 1883; Obersteiner, Brain vn 1884. 636. The brain and spinal cord are especially liable to haemorrhage, both by diapedesis and by rupture (Art. 27). In simple congestive hyperaemia some amount of capillary bleeding is not uncommon, and such bleeding is an almost invariable accom- paniment of acute inflammatory disorder of the brain. In both cases the extravasations appear as round or oval specks of the size of a pea or smaller, often mottling the cut surface in a remarkable