CHAPTER LXXII. RENAL TUMOURS AND PARASITES. 556. Of the various primary connective-tissue tumours of the kidney sarcoma presents the greatest interest. Renal sarcoma is usually congenital, and is apparent at birth or becomes noticeable in the first months or years of life. The tumour is sometimes very large (4 to 6 kilogrammes), and consists of soft whitish tissue interspersed with patches of haemorrhagic softening. The mass of the tissue is made up of round, spindle-shaped, and multiform cells. It sometimes contains large transversely-striated spindles (rhab- domyoma, Art. 153). These last have a special interest, for they are evidence that the tumour has arisen in tissue the early stages of whose development have in some way been disturbed (Art. 516). Cellular fibromata are frequently met with in the kidney, and take the form of nodules of the size of a pea or smaller. Large fibrous tumours are very rare, as are also myxomata, lipomata, angiomata, and their combinations. They all of them take the form of nodes seated in the parenchyma or on the capsule of the kidney, or in its pelvis or calices. Geawitz has investigated certain small subcapsular tumours, from the size of a pea to that of a cherry, and of a white marrow-like appearance, which have been described as lipomatous : he regards them as simply aberrant and proliferous portions of the suprarenal body. In their structure they are very like the degenerate suprarenals described in Art. 565, consisting of a fibrous stroma with rows and groups of cells con- taining a variable amount of fat. Grawitz has named them " strumae lipomatodes aberratae renis." Telangiectatic tumours (angiomata) in the renal pelvis sometimes give rise to severe haemorrhage. Adenomata of the kidney appear as well-defined white nodes of the size of a walnut- or less, and with a structure like that of ovarian adenomata. Weichselbaum and Greenish distinguish a papillary and an alveolar variety. The former they say starts in the collecting tubes, and consists of gland-like tubules and acini, studded internally with papillae and lined with cylindrical epi- thelium. The alveolar form is said to start in the convoluted