70 THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXX. When the cysts are both large and numerous the kidney may have the look of a large tumour. This condition is sometimes developed before birth, the child being born with kidneys transformed into relatively enormous honeycombed tumours repre- senting an extreme degree of cystic degeneration: this is referred to as foetal cystic disease. The tumours may be so large as to interfere with delivery. According to Virchow the condition is sometimes due to inflammatory occlusion and atrophy of the papillae; but Thorn thinks it is more frequently brought about by inflammation extending to the substance of the papillae from the calices. Absence of the pelvis or occlusion of the ureters may also have the like effect. Some authorities hold that the condition is due to a primary fault of development. References:—Bright, Memoirs on abdominal tumours (New Syd. Soc.) London 1860; Rokitansky, Lehrb. d. path. Anat.ni 1861; Beckmann, Virch. Arch. vol. 9; Frerichs, Die Bright sche Nierenkrankheit Brunswick 1851 ; Siebold, Monatsschr. f. Oeburtskunde 1854; Virchow, Gesam. Abhandl. Frankfort 1856, Virch. Arch. vol. 46 ; Bruckner, ibid.; Hertz, ibid. vol. 30 ; Simon, Med. chir. Trans, xxx ; Koster, Dublin Quart. Journ. xlvi ; Eve, Trans. Path. Soc. xxxi (1860); Thorn, Beitrag z. Oenese d. Cystenniere In. Diss. Bonn 1882 ; Chotinsky, Ueber Cystennieren In. Diss. Bonn 1882 (this author affirms that in foetal cystic kidney the occlusion of the tubules is to a great extent due to excessive multiplication of the epithelial cells); Cornil and Brault, Path, du rein Paris 1884; Dickinson, Renal and urinary affec- tions in London 1885 (with cases); Cornil and Ranvier, Man. Path. Hist, n London 1886. A number of cases are described in the Transactions of the Pathological Society. 552. Hydronephrosis. When the escape of the urine from the pelvis of the kidney is prevented or obstructed, it accumulates and distends that cavity, giving rise to what is called hydro- nephrosis or dropsy of the kidney. Renal calculi impacted in the ureter, stricture or twisting of the ureter, valvular folds of mucous membrane, or compression by the gravid uterus or by uterine ovarian and vesical tumours, enlarged prostate, urethral stricture, and phimosis—are all possible causes of the condition. In new-born infants the cause of the obstruction is usually some anomaly of the ureter, malposition of the kidney, valvular folds in the ureter, constriction or occlusion of the urethra, enlargement of the prostate or colliculus seminalis, or phimosis. The pelvis and calices are sometimes enormously distended, forming a sack large enough to fill the greater part of the abdomen and containing 10 to 20 litres of liquid. The part of the ureter above the obstruction is dilated in like manner. The first result of this accumulation of liquid is the flattening of the papillae and thinning of the cortex of the kidney. The parenchyma persists for a considerable time but at length under- goes atrophy, the tubules being reduced to flattened or cleft-like channels lined with compressed epithelium, and ultimately with the glomeruli becoming functionless and obliterated. In extreme cases the renal tissue is reduced to a thin film or in part disappears