CHAPTER XCI. STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS. 624. The central nervous system consists of the spinal cord, the cerebral axis, and the cerebrum. These parts are made up of nerve-cells and nerve-fibres, together with a framework of con- nective tissue which carries the nutrient vessels. The nerve-cells or ganglion-cells are for the most part aggregated in masses which are known as nerve-centres or grey nuclei. The nerve-fibres form either plexuses or tracts, and serve to connect the ganglion-cells of one group with those of another or with the peripheral termina- tions (end-organs) of certain nerves. The cord and the cerebral axis contain centres of subordinate importance, forming as it were intermediate stations between the central and peripheral extremities of the nerve-tracts. The cerebrum is the central terminus with which the peripheral sensory and motor end-organs are connected either directly or through the intermediate stations. The cerebrum consists of two hemispheres connected by a commissure, the corpus callosum. The outer surface of the hemispheres is thrown into a series of complicated convolutions consisting of ridges and furrows (gyri and sulci), the latter ramifying and intercommunicating in a remarkable way. Some of the sulci are characteristic of the human brain, and are always present; others vary in different brains, and thus the configuration of the convolutions is by no means absolutely constant. The most important sulci are—the sylvian fissure (Fig. 243 e), the central or rolandian fissure (a), the praecentral or transverse- frontal furrow (b), the intraparietal furrow (d), the first-temporal or parallel furrow (/), the parieto-occipital furrow (c), the anterior-occipital furrow (i), and the inferior-occipital furrow The central fissure divides the cerebral hemisphere into an ante- rior and a posterior portion; the (central) convolutions which form its anterior and posterior borders are known as the anterior-central or ascending-frontal (A), and the posterior-central or ascending- parietal (B). The portion of the hemisphere in front of the central