THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAR LXXXVIT. 174 more or less isolated patches of tissue, which are usually nodular and vary from the size of a millet-seed to that of a pea. Where the process is still recent we thus find the respiratory tissue studded with small grey translucent nodules, or larger white opaque ones (Fig. 238 a d). Most of these are simply respiratory bronchioles and alveolar ducts with their alveoli (abed) which have become transformed by inflammation into compact and continuous masses. On section we can frequently make out in them the form and arrangement (b c) of the original parts. It is only when the nodule increases in size by the extension of the inflammation to neigh- bouring alveolar groups and to the lymphatics that this con- figuration becomes indistinct and disappears. In the later stages the bronchopneumonic nodules usually give place in a measure to those caused by lymphangitis, bronchitis, and peribronchitis (e); but this is by no means always the case. Cases occur in which the thickening of the bronchi and peri- bronchial tissue and the occlusion of the smaller air-passages goes on to a very marked extent. In like manner the lymphangitis may spread far and wide. If we start then with these nodular inflammatory patches it is not hard to gain an understanding of the many diverse forms in which pulmonary tuberculosis presents itself. They are all referable to this primary type, and their differences are due partly to varieties in the original bronchopneumonic patches themselves, partly to variations in the morbid phenomena which accompany their development. As regards the bronchopneumonic patches, varieties occur chiefly in the character of the inflammatory exudation, to some extent also in the way in which the inflammation terminates—the issue of the inflammation. In one case we may have a cellular or a fibrous exudation which rapidly becomes caseous or purulent, in another the process tends to fibrous overgrowth with partial caseation: thus we may distinguish caseous, caseo-purulent, caseo-fibroid, and fibroid or indurative varieties of tuberculous bronchopneumonia. When the development of the nodular patches is accompanied by more extensive inflammation of the adjacent tissue, the nodular patch becomes a lobular one: thus we have a simply nodular and also a lobular form of tuberculous bronchopneumonia. Both the primary and the secondary tuberculous patches may cease to extend and at length heal. It is very doubtful whether complete recovery of the affected tissue by re-absorption of the exudation is in any case possible, and indeed it can only occur in the very smallest patches whose vessels are not yet obliterated. In larger patches healing can only take place when the inflam- matory process issues in fibrous hyperplasia and induration. The indurated portions of the lung are sometimes nodular, sometimes diffuse and extensive: they consist of slaty-grey (induration