art. 623 a.] 195 THE THYROID GLAND. pregnancy, infective diseases, heart-disease, etc. may all act in this direction. A striking instance is the chronic enlargement of the gland from persistent congestion in the peculiar vaso-motor disorder known as Graves' or Basedow's disease (exophthalmic goitre); a disease characterised by increased rapidity of the heart's action, increased pulsation in the arteries of the neck and head, and protrusion of the eyeballs from the orbits. If a goitrous tumour can be thus produced it is natural to regard it as due to the increased blood-supply of the organ, which leads to increased nutrition and therefore hypertrophy of the gland-tissue. Such goitres are always found to be highly vascular. But hyperaemia alone is not enough to account for all goitres, and it fails entirely to explain the fact that goitre prevails much more in some regions than in others. In certain regions indeed a large proportion of the inhabitants are goitrous. More- over it is observed that families hitherto free from goitre acquire the disease when they move into regions where it is common, and that goitrous patients lose the disease when they are removed to regions where it is unknown. These facts require us to assume that the conditions which favour goitre are to some extent local. This view is corroborated by the fact that even in regions where goitre is endemic there are occasionally regular epidemics of the disease, in which e.g. the inmates of garrisons or of institutions simultaneously suffer from rapidly growing thyroid tumours. This endemic and epidemic mode of occurrence has been accounted for in the most various ways: the air, the soil, the water, the social conditions, all have at one time or another been accused. None of these theories however have met with general acceptance. The most probable explanation seems to be that the local exciting cause of goitre is of a miasmatic nature, independent of the altitude and of the temperature of the region, but developing only over certain kinds of rock or soil. Bircher, one of the latest writers on the subject, concludes from his minute researches on the distribution of goitre in Switzerland, where the disease is in many parts endemic, that it occurs only on marine deposits of palaeozoic, triassic, or tertiary age; while eruptive volcanic rocks, the older crystalline formations, jurassic and calcareous deposits, and fresh- water deposits generally, are exempt. The exact nature of the miasma, and its mode of entrance into the body, are as yet unknown. Klebs and Bircher suspect the existence of some specific micro-organism, though they have not succeeded in obtaining any experimental basis for the supposition. It will very probably be found that the exciting agent enters the body in drinking-water. We are also unaware of the manner in which the exciting agent works, but it is not unlikely that it sets up hyperaemic conditions in the thyroid. As infants are sometimes born goitrous, we must assume that it may pass from mother to foetus and influence the latter within the womb. Epidemics of 13—2