ART. 528.] 25 DISORDERS OF THE RENAL CIRCULATION. original stroma and partly of new formation. Whitish fibrous nodules with few nuclei represent the glomeruli, the capsule of Bowman being no longer recognisable. There are no tubules, the only trace of their existence being clefts or streaks devoid of epithelium scattered through the cicatrix. The larger arterioles are collapsed and impermeable, and ill-defined against the surround- ing fibrous tissue. Surrounding the obliterated region is an irregular zone within which the fibrous stroma is increased, the glomeruli reduced to homogeneous denucleated impermeable spherules, and the tubules collapsed. The altered glomeruli are enclosed in a capsule which is either normal or consists of thickened fibrous tissue disposed in concentric strata: in recent infarcts the glomeruli may show a few scattered oil-globules. The tubules are either empty or contain small epithelial cells, ixsually lying without regular order in the lumen. Here and there towards the margin of the infarct tubules containing fatty epithelium are seen. The intertubular fibrous tissue is always increased; in parts it is dense and coarsely fibrous, in others soft and beset with numerous round-cells. The latter are more numerous as the cicatrix is recent or imperfectly developed. Pigment is seldom present, though occasionally it appears in the form of granules and crystals. The boundary between the cicatrix and the healthy tissue is seldom sharply defined, but the transition from normal to atrophied tissue is sufficiently clear. The neighbouring healthy tubules sometimes contain hyaline casts. The cicatrix is due to the absorption of the dead and degenerate tissue, which is only to a very slight extent regenerated, and to hyperplasia of the fibrous structures. The number and magnitude of the embolic cicatrices determine the degree of distortion Avhich the kidney as a whole undergoes by their contraction. When they are numerous and large the bulk of the organ may be considerably diminished, and a form of contracted kidney which we may appropriately call the embolic contracted kidney is produced. It is always characterised by the irregularity of the contraction. Emboli containing infective matters give rise to metastatic abscesses (Art. 543). Keferences:—Kirkes, Med. ehir. Trans, xxv (1842); Beckmann, Virch, Arch. vol. 20; Cornil and Ranvier, Man. d'hist. path. Paris 1878; Aroatinzki, Beitriige z. norm. u. path. Anat. d. Niere 1877 ; Utthoff, Exp. Beitriige z. Nephritis In. Diss. Berlin 1881; Litten, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. I (1879), (Inters, iib. d. haem. Infarct Berlin 1879; Cohnheim, Allg. Path. I Berlin 1882; Weigert, Virch. Arch. vols. 72, 79; Guillebeau, Ueber d. Hist. d. haem. Infarcte Berne 1880 ; Grawitz and Israel, Virch. Arch. vol. 77 ; Talma, Zeitschr. f. klin. Med. n (1880); Pautynski, Virch. Arch. vol. 79; Hamilton, Liverpool Med. chir. Journ. Jnly 1883 (who questions the