258 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCIY. ation of the convolutions and their structure shows that the atrophy coexists with local aplasias, such as partial defects of the gyri, etc. Atrophies of the cord, also, are frequently found associated with anomalies of its development. When simple atrophy occurs without any visible cause in patients who have a family history of nervous disease, it is natural to suppose that the nerve-elements have had some intrinsic weak- ness of constitution which led to their premature decay and disap- pearance: and the same supposition is permissible even in cases where there is no such history. GuDDEN and his pupils have shown that sensory as well as motor centres undergo atrophy and lose their ganglion-cells if at birth or in infancy the peripheral end-organs or nerves are destroyed. The explanation is perhaps this—that in the absence of the end-organ the corresponding central organ is not called on to perform its function and so wastes, or at least fails to attain to complete development. Loss of peripheral end-organs in later life is only to a slight extent followed by similar atrophy. Thus after amputation of the limbs no marked changes take place in the cord, the number of ganglion-cells and nerve-fibres is apparently unaltered. In a few cases the corresponding half of the cord has appeared to become smaller, probably from thinning of the nerve-fibres. At the same time it must be kept in mind that in fifty out of every hundred persons the cord is more or less unsymmetrical (from incomplete decussation of the pyramids), and this makes it difficult to be sure that in a given case asymmetry is due to pathological causes. Loss of the eye and optic nerve leads after a time in the human subject to atrophy of the corresponding parts of the optic tract. When blindness has lasted for a number of years the atrophy is said (Huguenin) to extend up to the occipital lobe. Senile atrophy of the brain, which is not at all uncommon, seems to be due in the first place to mere outwearing and decay of the nerve-elements, and in part also to diminution of the natural nutritive processes (see Kostjurin and Hess, Wiener med. Jahrb. 1886). Cerebral atrophy in younger patients reduced and weak- ened by disease is doubtless due chiefly to disordered nutrition. Localised atrophy of nerve-cells and fibres within particular circumscribed regions is at times demonstrably induced by atheromatous and hyaline thickening of the vessel-walls (Art. 642), or by occlusion and obliteration of the circumvascular lymph- channels from extravasation of blood or hyaline deposit. As regards the various forms of nervous atrophy met with in persons who have long suffered from disordered circulation, we must assume that the general cause has led to the particular effect. Disease of the heart or of the lungs, chronic inflammation of the meninges (Arts. 655, 656), and intracranial tumours, all act in this way; in the latter case local compression leading to local anaemia