THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. 252 [CHAP. XCIV. gelatinous degeneration and firm grey degeneration or sclerosis. The sclerotic tissue by contraction may become tough and cica- tricial, but this requires months and probably years. The behaviour of the blood-vessels varies according to the form of the degenerative process. As a rule however in the later stages hyperplasia of the adventitia and thickening of the vessel- walls take place. The more intimate structure of the neuroglia or supporting framework of the nervous system, and the significance of its several elements, are matters which are still under discussion. Schwalbe distinguishes three constituents, namely (1) the epithelium of the ventricles and central canal, (2) the neuroglia, which in life forms a homogeneous cementing substance between the nerve-elements but after death is resolved by coagulation into delicate reticular fibrils, (3) a ' granular substance' which forms a very close-meshed network and is composed of neuro-keratin (Ewald and Kuhne). All of these, he says, are derived from epithelial structures. The neuroglia it is true contains flattened (endotheloid) cells, but they are to be regarded as migratory cells which have become modified. Kolliker, Deiters, Jastrowitz, Boll, Lowe, Golgi, Friedmann, and others assign the neuroglia to the connective tissues, and give as its con- stituents a fibrillar network, a granular matrix or ground-substance, and cells both stellate and simple. Schwalbe's account of the neuroglia does not agree with the experience of pathologists. It is a tissue which to some extent is sui generis, some of its properties resembling those of no other structure; but it must nevertheless be classed with the connective tissues. Both grey and white matter contain besides nerve-cells round or oval cells with scanty protoplasm and numerous fine processes either radiating in all directions (stellate cells) or running more or less parallel (Fig. 253 ef, Fig. 254 cv Fig. 268). These were first described by Deiters and are called Deiters' cells. The number of the processes and the form of the cells vary much in different parts. There are also certain rounded or polygonal cells without processes, which are either undeveloped Deiters' cells or migratory cells. The ground-substance surrounding the cells consists of a finely-granular reticidate structure through which the processes of the cells ramify. It is not yet certain whether all the fibrils that are seen communicate with cells. In the white matter the granular structure is scanty or absent, in the grey matter it is abundant, and the nerve-fibres and ganglion-cells seem as if embedded in it. It is questionable however whether the ground-substance is granular during life. According to Gierke (Neurol. Centralb. 1883, Arch, f. mikrosk. Anat. xxvi 1885) it is homogeneous and transparent. Schultze and Rumpf {Cent. f. med. Wiss. 1878) have found that in hyperplasia of the neuroglia, where a dense felted mass of fibrils is produced, the so-called neuro-keratin of Kuhne does not increase in quantity, and the new fibrils react to digestive agents just like fibrous tissue. The terms grey degeneration and sclerosis have been used as if they were equivalent terms. Strictly speaking vkKjjpos means hard and dry, and the term sclerosis should be limited to hardening accompanied by loss of moisture (Art. 650). References on the histology of the central nervous system :—Henle and Merkel, Zeitschr. f. rat. Med. (3rd series) vol. 34; Lockhart Clarke, Phil. Trans. 1851, '58, '59, '62; Deiters, Unters. iib. Gehim u. Ruckenmark Brunswick 1865; Meynert, Bau d. Grosshirnrinde Neuwied 1869; Gerlach, Strieker's Man. of Histology n (New Syd. Soc.) London 1872; Jastrowitz, Arch. f. Psych. ii, in; Boll, ibid, iv (1873); Lowe, ibid, vn (1877); Stieda,