THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXVIII. 184 When the tumour-cells originally reach the lung or pleura by the lymphatics, nodules of various sizes appear along the course of the latter. In the case of cancer the diffusion is often remarkably uniform, so that the lymphatics of a large portion or the whole of the lung are distended with white marrow-like masses. On section such a lung exhibits a number of close-set whitish or reddish nodes along the course of the bronchi or interlobular septa. The neoplastic growth often sets up inflammations especially of the pleura, and these not infrequently are haemorrhagic in character. Primary carcinoma of the lung : —Eokitansky, Path. Anat. IV ; Eberth, Virch. Arch. vol. 49 ; Langhans, ibid. vol. 53 ; Perls, ibid. vol. 56 ; Weich- selbaum, ibid. vol. 85 ; Schottelius, Ein Fall v. prim. Lungenkrebs In. Diss. Wurzburg 1875 ; Fenley and Parker, Med. chir. Trans, lx (1877); Stilling, Virch. Arch. vol. 83; Eeinhardt, Arch. d. Heilk. ix (1878); Chiari, Prog, med. Woch. 1883; Beck, Zeitschr. f. Heilk. v 1884. Connective-tissue tumours of the lung:—Eokitansky, Path. Anat. iv; Morgan, Trans. Path. Soc. 1871 ; Virchow, Krankh. Geschwiilste n ; Forster, Virch. Arch. vol. 13; Eindfleisch, ibid. vol. 81; Hesse and E. Wagner, Arch. d. Heilk. xix; Harting and Hesse, Eulenburg's Vierteljahrsschr. xxx, xxxi; Chiari, loc. cit.; Eibbert, Virch. Arch. vol. 102 (lymphoma); Cohn, ibid. vol. 101 (osteoma). Hesse and Wagner state that the Schneeberg miners frequently suffer from peculiar tumours in the lung, which Wagner describes as lymphosar- comata. Cohnheim (Allgem. Pathol, i) suspects that they are due to some form of infective granuloma. 620. The animal parasites infesting the bronchi and the lungs are not numerous. The most important is Echinococcus, which may form hydatid cysts of considerable size, with or without daughter-cysts. Cysticercus cellulosae is rare. Strongylus longe- vaginatus, a cylindrical worm 15—26 mm. long, has once been found in a boy's lung, and Orth discovered a calcified Pentastoma denticulatum (Art. 225). Kannenberg has in several cases of gangrene of the lung discovered Monas lens and Cercomonas (Art. 250), two flagellate infusorians, among the shreds of lung- tissue in the sputa. In the resting state they look not unlike white blood-corpuscles. Of vegetable parasites in the lungs the most noteworthy are the numerous varieties of bacteria. Some of these, such as the bacilli of tuberculosis and of glanders, and the micrococcus of pneumonia, give rise to specific inflammations. Others again, such as those which inhabit the mouth, may possibly give rise to non-specific inflammations of various intensity when aspirated into the air-passages. Gangrenous portions of the lung contain micrococci, bacilli, and spirilla. Some of these have probably much to do with the gangrenous decomposition, others probably settle only in the already disintegrated tissue. In tuberculous cavities, disintegrating haemorrhagic patches,