215 ART. 627.] STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS. The cerebral axis may be considered as made up of three regions or strata (Schwalbe)—the peduncular tract (Meynert, Schwalbe), the tegmental region (Forel), and the dorsal stratum. The peduncular tract is in the medulla represented by the pyramidal columns (Fig. 249 p), which are surrounded and in part reinforced by the external arciform fibres (fae). The external arciform fibres enclose a nucleus known as the arciform nucleus (nar). In the pons the peduncular tract lies in the ventral stratum, being crossed and interlaced by the transverse arciform fibres derived from the middle peduncle of the cerebellum (Fig. 247 B7S). Some of these fibres are commissural and connect the two halves of the cerebellum; others penetrate the grey masses embedded among the arciform fibres and known as the nuclei of the pons. Certain of the nerve-fibres which start from these nuclei join the bundles of pyramidal fibres and pass with them up to the cerebrum. The bundles of pyramidal fibres, which in the pons are more or less subdivided and scattered, unite again into compact bundles on the anterior or cerebral side of the pons and, reinforced by the nuclear fibres just referred to, form the pes or crusta of the crura cerebri (Fig. 247 Pe). The crusta is covered on the upper or dorsal surface by the substantia nigra, a layer of pigmented ganglion-cells, which in their turn give off fibres to join the crustal fibres. These latter then pass (mainly through the internal capsule) up to the cortex. The pyramidal fibres terminate in the ascending frontal and parietal convolutions and the parts adjoining, the other fibres pass to the frontal, temporal, and occipital lobes. A few enter the lenticular and caudate nuclei. The tegmental region lies to the dorsal surface of the peduncular tract, and consists chiefly of the formatio reticularis (Fig. 249 Fr). The reticular structure is due to the subdivision into fibres of part of the grey matter of the anterior horn, with which are interlaced numerous arciform fibres. It includes in every part longitudinal fibres which are the continuation of the anterior and lateral columns of the cord, together with arciform fibres and scattered ganglion-cells. Posteriorly there is a so-called raphe (r), due to the decussation of some of the fibres in the middle line. The tegmental portion of the medulla contains the nuclei of the twelfth, eleventh, tenth, ninth, and part of the eighth cranial nerves (Figs. 248, 249), the olivary nucleus (Fig. 249 0), the accessory olivary nuclei (oam, oal), the nucleus of the funiculus gracilis (ng), the nucleus of the funiculus cuneatus (nc), and other nuclei. The restiform body (Fig. 248 c) also belongs to this region, through which pass fibres from the lateral cerebellar tract of the cord, from the olivary body, and from the formatio reticularis, to the cerebellum. The tegmental portion of the pons contains the nuclei of the