293 ART. 656.] INFLAMMATORY DISORDERS. But there are other forms of chronic leptomeningitis which as to their causation, rise, and progress, differ notably from the foregoing. We refer to those chronic (more rarely acute or subacute) inflammatory processes which are the most frequent though not invariable antecedent of certain mental disorders, especially that known as paralytic dementia or progressive para- lysis of the insane. The processes in question and the mental disease as commonly defined are not exactly co-extensive: on the one hand they may be absent in cases where the mental disease exists, and on the other they are met with in cases where the symp- toms if any have been other than mental. The morbid conditions referred to have certainly not the same aetiological or clinical significance in all cases: they may be divided into two groups according to their anatomical characters, in other words according to their situation and the nature of the textural changes they induce. In the first place we have changes affecting mainly the arachnoid and subarachnoid tissues and giving them a white opaque appearance, the opacity being limited to spots and streaks or more uniformly diffused: it is most apparent over the sulci and the subarachnoid cisterns, and occurs both at the base and on the convexity of the brain. It is still doubtful whether these opacities are always of inflammatory origin. They are histologically due to fibrous thickening, endothelial hyperplasia, or more rarely to cellular infiltration. If we are to reckon them provisionally as due to chronic inflammation, this would probably be best described as chronic arachnitis or external lepto- meningitis. As to their causation they are observed in connexion with chronic venous engorgement and with certain morbid states of the blood, as in alcoholism and chronic nephritis. Of greater importance than the changes just mentioned, which after all can hardly be supposed to induce grave disorder of the nervous functions, are certain chronic affections which involve chiefly the pia mater and underlying nerve-tissue: in their later stages at least they are unmistakeably inflammatory, and are therefore appropriately included under the terms chronic meningoencephalitis and meningomyelitis. When the morbid process is well advanced the soft membranes, especially the pia mater, are visibly milky and opaque, the change showing best in the sulci along the blood-vessels, and sometimes also on the ridges of the convolutions. It is most common in the anterior parts of the brain, namely the frontal and parietal lobes, the other parts being little or not at all affected. Cases however are described in which the change is most marked in the temporal lobes. The most striking of the textural changes is undoubtedly the cellular infiltration which pervades the pia mater (Fig. 273 h), and to a less degree the subarachnoid tissue (6). This is occasionally