5 ART. 517.] MALFORMATIONS OF THE URINARY ORGANS. 517. Total absence of the kidneys occurs only in gravely malformed foetuses, and is of course incompatible with independent life. Absence of one kidney is rare in foetuses otherwise well- developed. It does not interfere with growth and development, inasmuch as the other kidney becomes hypertrophied and assumes the whole work of excretion. The left kidney is more often wanting than the right. The corresponding suprarenal and ureter are usually absent, though in some instances rudiments of the lower extremity of the ureter have been found. Congenital atrophy of one kidney is more common than entire absence. In well-marked cases the atrophied kidney appears as a thin plate of fibrous tissue 2—5 cm. in length and T5—3 cm. broad, with few or no traces of tubules or glomeruli, and supplied by renal vessels normal in position but abnormally small. Where tbe atrophy is less marked the remnants of renal tissue are more abundant. The causes which determine the non-development of one of the kidneys are unknown. We can only say that for some reason the outgrowth from the primitive ureter out of which the kidney is fashioned has been hindered or altogether suppressed. Atrophy of the kidney must often originate in some similar condition of whose precise nature we are equally ignorant. In some cases however traces of inflammation, in the form of cellular infiltra- tion and fibrous hyperplasia, are discoverable in the rudimentary organ. We are thus led to infer that intra-uterine inflammation of the kidney is possible and may lead to arrest of its de- velopment. Among congenital anomalies of form the persistence of the foetal lobulations is the most common. The boundaries of the renal segments are usually indicated by shallow furrows; it is very uncommon to find the furrows so deep that the segments are entirely separated into distinct renculi. Cohesion of the two kidneys most frequently takes the form of the so-called 'horse-shoe kidney,' in which the organs are found closer to each other than is normal and their lower ends are united by a band either of fibrous tissue or of ordinary renal tissue. Cohesion of the upper or middle parts is very much rarer. When the kidneys coalesce entirely into one there is usually very considerable misplacement of the organ. It is often seated just above the promontory of the sacrum in the form of a thick cake or disc, from the anterior aspect of which arises a single or double pelvis with from one to four short ureters. In a few cases the united kidneys have been found on one or other side of the spinal column. The renal vessels of the united kidneys are always abnormal in their origin and are frequently multiple. Thus when the organ is just above the sacrum the arteries spring from the lower part of