CHAPTER LXXX. THE BRONCHI. 579. The morbid changes affecting the larger bronchi in general correspond closely to those of the larynx and trachea. There are however certain peculiarities connected with them, arising partly from their anatomical structure and partly from their relation to the lungs. Hyperaemia and anaemia of the bronchi have no very distinctive characters. We may however note that both in engorge- ment and in congestion the bronchial mucous membrane may appear of a very deep red or purple tint. Haemorrhage from the mucous membrane is not uncommon: it takes the form of small ecchymoses or of larger effusions which mingle with the bronchial secretion. These are due to disturbance of the circulation or to morbid changes in the vessels or tissues. In haemophilia, whether congenital or acquired (purpura), and more rarely in catarrhal inflammations, the haemorrhage may be much more considerable and may partially fill the bronchi, while extensive suffusions appear in the mucous membrane. When the menses are suppressed it is said that haemorrhage from the bronchi sometimes occurs. The blood effused into the bronchi may be aspirated into the lung and simulate pulmonary haemorrhage. The commonest of all bronchial affections is bronchitis. In catarrhal bronchitis the secretion from the inflamed mucous membrane is mucous, serous, purulent, or mixed. The mucus so abundantly secreted in the acute stage comes partly from the lining epithelium, partly from the mucous glands of the bronchial wall. Little plugs of mucus (which sometimes simulate tubercles) may be seen protruding from the orifices of these glands. The cellular elements contained in the bronchial secretion are nearly all pus- corpuscles. Epithelial cells are never abundant, inasmuch as they do not readily desquamate and when they do they usually become mucoid and dissolve (Arts. 420, 421). When the secretion is very abundant, serous, and containing few cellular elements, the affection has been called serous broncho- rrhoea; when the secretion is more puriform bronchoblenno-