306 THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. (ditto); Leyden, Arch. f. Psych, vn (ditto); Lichtheim, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xvin (ditto); Eisenlohr, Virch. Arch. vol. 73; von Velden, D. Arch. f. klin. Med. xix (disseminated myelitis); Engelken, Path. d. acuten Myelitis In. Diss. Zurich 1867 (ditto); Dreschfeld, Lancet 1, 1882 (ditto). Leyden (Arch. f. Psych, vm 1877, Charite-Annalen ill) produced myelitis in dogs by injecting liquor arsenicalis (Fowler's solution) into the lumbar cord, and showed that the affection might terminate in cicatrisation, sclerosis, cyst, or in simple rarefaction or loosening of the tissue. He thought that disseminated multiple sclerosis was the result of a disseminated" myelitis or encephalitis. Clinically the term myelitis is used in a sense much wider than that to which we have restricted it. Thus poliomyelitis is used to describe conditions which are not inflammatory, such as ischaemic and haemorrhagic softening, simple atrophy, and multiple sclerosis of the grey matter. Second- ary and primary tract-degenerations, ischaemic and haemorrhagic softening, degeneration from pressure and contusion of the white matter of the cord or medulla oblongata, are all classed as myelitis. This may be convenient, but the pathologist is bound to be more discriminating. Even if it is not always possible in the post-mortem room to determine with certainty the manner in which a given change, say a patch of sclerosis, was initially induced, this is no reason for declining to classify such changes according to their mode of origin. The terms acute and chronic progressive bulbar paralysis, anterior poliomyelitis, infantile spinal paralysis, atrophic spinal paralysis, transverse myelitis, leukomyelitis, protopathic and secondary spinal muscular atrophy, spastic spinal paralysis or paraplegia, and so on, are intended to express the character of the clinical symptoms and the seat of the lesion in the several maladies : for the most part however they fail to indicate or at least to indicate correctly the nature of the morbid process. On acute polioencephalitis:—Strumpell, Deut. med. Woch. 1884, Jahrb. f. Kinderheilk. xxn 1885, London Med. Record 1885 ; Gaudard, L he'mipUgie infantile cerdbrale In. Diss. Geneva 1884; Ranke, Miinchen. med. Woch. 18, 1886; Wolfenden, Practitioner xxxvn 1886.