143 ART. 599.] PULMONARY INFLAMMATIONS IN GENERAL. Caseation and fibroid induration are very frequently met with in combination, the caseous foci being surrounded and enclosed by new and cellular fibrous tissue. 599. Causes of pulmonary inflammation. The inflam- mations of the lung are set up by irritants reaching it by way of the blood-vessels or of the bronchi, or by extension from the pleura or mediastinum. We may therefore conveniently consider these inflammations according to their various modes of origin. As regards the pulmonary inflammations whose exciting cause is referable to the blood it must be observed that the lung is not on the whole so liable as other organs to be the seat of contaminating deposit from the blood. Thus pigment-granules and micro-organisms may circulate freely through the capillaries of the lung without being arrested; this is doubtless due to the fact that the capillaries are comparatively wide and the blood-stream rapid. Deposits from the blood do however occur, and thus we meet with forms of haematogenous infiltration and haematogenous (bacterial) infection. When the blood contains an excessive proportion of white corpuscles, these may accumulate in great numbers in the capillaries of the lung, and by extravasation in the tissues also, and give rise to leukaemic infiltration. Fat and oil-globules circulating in the blood (as in lipaemia) are apt to collect in the pulmonary vessels causing fatty embolism; and in anthrax the specific bacilli frequently crowd the capillaries so as to look like an artificial injection of them. Four kinds of haematogenous infective inflammation are described; they may be described as pneumonias in a restricted sense of the term. They are—true croupous pneumonia, embolic septic (suppurative or gangrenous) pneumonia, embolic tuberculosis, and embolic syphilis. They are probably all due to bacterial infection, and we must assume that the bacteria are conveyed by the blood. What we may term the pleurogenous pneumonias are closely allied to those just referred to. The inflammatory process extends from the pleura to the lung-tissue chiefly along the interlobular lymphatic channels, though here and there it passes thence directly to the peribronchial tissue and to the pulmonary parenchyma. The antecedent pleuritic affection is generally itself haematogenous. Traumatic pneumonia may be considered as a special pleurogenous variety, pleura and lung being generally injured simultaneously. An inflammation of the lung induced by an irritant conveyed to the parenchyma by the bronchi is described as a broncho- pneumonia. It is immaterial whether the bronchi themselves are previously or simultaneously inflamed or not. 600. Inhaled impurities. The lungs are by reason of their