ART. 667.] ATROPHY AND DEGENERATION. 335 Occasionally wo meet with local or multiple peripheral degene- rations of which we cannot with certainty discover the cause. Thus the vagus is suhject to degenerative changes without any Fig. 285. Atrophy of motoe nerves in anterior poliomyelitis. (Treated with Midler's fluid and perosmic acid, and teased out in glycerine: x 200) a sheath of Schwann d uninuclear, b axis-cylinder with adherent drops d± multinuclear, of myeline d2 bipolar cell within the sheath of c axis-cylinder breaking up Schwann apparent compression, inflammation, or other injtiry. Blaschko describes a wide-spread fatty degeneration of Auerbach's and Meissner's plexuses in the intestines. The multiple neuritis of some authors (Art. 669) is in fact of the nature of degenerative atrophy. In such isolated degenerations we must assume that some disorder of the circulation (due e.g. to change in the vessels or change in the blood) is at work. Thus lead-poisoning gives rise not only to degeneration of the muscular nerves (Lancereaux, Gombault, Friedlander, etc.) but also to change in the intestinal plexuses. When the nerve-changes are acute and accompanied by febrile disturbance it is probable that infection of some kind is in question. R Maier showed experimentally that in chronic lead- poisoning the submucous and myenteric ganglion-cells become turbid, lose their nuclei, break into fragments, and disappear, while the connective tissue about them is simultaneously increased. According to Key, Retzius, S. Mayer, and Korybutt-Daszkiewicz, degenerative and regenerative changes take place normally in peripheral nerves; and many filaments hitherto assigned to the fibrous sheaths or the fibres of Remak are simply degenerate or nascent nerve-fibres. The drops of myeline in degenerate nerves are stained black by perosmic acid, while the granular matters are unstained: S. Mayer infers from this that the nerve-substance breaks up into fatty and albuminoid component elements.