THE URINARY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXVIII. 36 When the cloudy change has advanced to fatty degeneration in the tubular epithelium, that of the glomeruli and their capsules may also become fatty. In the above account of the degenerative changes affecting the renal epithelium no reference has been made to the statements of other authors on the subject; the account rests solely on the observations made in Ziegler's own laboratory in collaboration with Nauwerck. In many memoirs on the subject no mention is made of the mode of preparation adopted, or hardening- fiuids and reagents have been used which greatly alter the renal epithelium. Alcohol especially is entirely inadmissible in such investigations. References :—Klebs, Handb. d. path. Anat. ; Rindfleisch, Path. His- tology II (New Syd. Soc.) London 1873; Ponfick, Berl. hlin. Woch. 1876-77, Virch. Arch. vol. 88 ; Bostrom, Ueber d. Intox. durch d. essbare Morchel Leipzig 1882 ; Bartels, Ziemssen's Cyclop, xv ; Wagner, ibid (3rd German edition) ix; Brault, Journ. de I'anat. xvi; Eckstein, Deutsche med. Woch. 1882; Gaucher, Lancet 1, 1881; Jacobi, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderhrankh. ii ; Thomas, ibid, iv; Weigert, Sammlung hlin. Vortriige 162, 163; Marchand, Virch. Arch. vol. 77; Lebedeff, ibid. vol. 91; P. Furbringer, ibid. vol. 91; Lassar, ibid. vol. 77; Nauwerck, Beitrdge z. Eenntniss d. Morbus Brightii Jena 1884. 535. Dropsical degeneration of the renal tissue, and especially of the epithelium, plays a great part in the pathology of the kidney. The glomerular epithelium (Fig. 207) and that of the convoluted tubules (Fig. 206) is the most frequently affected, less frequently that of the straight tubules and collecting tubes. When the degeneration passes into necrosis the tubular epithelial cells become either turbid, or pale and homogeneous. The dropsical cells become greatly swollen, and clear spherules (so-called vacuoles) appear in their protoplasm: these are presently extruded or set free when the cell disintegrates. Fig. 206. Necrosis of the tubular epithelium in icterus gravis. (Hardened in Mutter's fluid, stained with gentian-violet, and mounted in Canada balsam: x 300) a normal convoluted tubule d convoluted tubule with epithelium 6 ascending limb of Henle's loop partly sound, and partly necrosed c convoluted tubules with necrosed e unaltered stroma, with blood-vessels epithelium