ART. 6G9.] INFLAMMATION OF PERIPHERAL NERVES AND GANGLIA. 343 lymphatic glands. It is not uncommon for instance for caseous glands in the neck, beside the trachea, or at the root of the lung, to press upon contiguous nerves, like the vagus and its branches, to irritate them into inflammation, and so to bring about their degeneration. In the pelvis inflammations of the bladder or of the internal generative organs are apt to extend to the cellular connective tissue and so to the rich nerve-plexuses of that region. These forms of neuritis are consecutive or secondary, but other forms occur in which the irritant inducing the inflammation is brought to the nerve directly by way of the blood or lymph. These irritants are so far as we know chiefly of an infective nature : thus in typhus (Bernhardt), small-pox (Joffroy), typhoid (Noth- nagel, Leyden, Eisenlohr), and diphtheria (Oertel, Charcot, Buhl, Dfjerine) we meet with simple or multiple neuritis, which we can only regard as direct results of the general infection. Recently Baelz and Scheube have shown that the epidemic disease of India and Japan known as beriberi or kakke is characterised by the appearance of multiple neuritis: it has therefore been designated (Baelz) as panneuritis epidemica. It does not appear that there is any affection in Europe exactly corresponding to the Japanese kakke, but a form of multiple neuritis (Leyden) has more than once been described under the names of polyneuritis (Pierson) and neuritis disseminata (Roth). Whether this has any analogy to the infective disease, as Pierson suspects, is still a very open question. Cold is spoken of by many as a cause of multiple neuritis, but probably in most cases some kind of infection or poison is at work. Roth has shown that a purulent inflammation (as in parotitis) which involves a nerve-trunk may be the starting point of multiple neuritis. Tuberculous and syphilitic inflammation affect chiefly the intracranial portions of cranial nerves and the spinal nerve-roots in connexion with meningeal tuberculosis and syphilis respectively. Little is known of tuberculosis or syphilis of the peripheral nerves. Foci of some size are most frequently observed in the optic nerve, and give rise to extensive tuberculous destruction. Elsewhere nerves are seldom involved except by extension of tuberculous inflammation from diseased glands. Leprous inflammation is especially apt to attack the nerves, the disease being in fact chiefly characterised by its thus involving the peripheral nervous system: a particular form of leprosy is distinguished as lepra nervorum anaesthetica, or lepra mutilans (Arts. 131, 206, 392, 659, and Hoggan, Arch, de physiol. 1882). The settlement of the lepra-bacilli excites an intense inflammation, accompanied by cellular infiltration and followed by degeneration of the nerve-fibres and hyperplasia of the fibrous tissue. Fusiform thickenings and tuberosities of considerable firmness and size are thus produced in the course of the several nerves. The diseased