THE RESPIRATORY ORGANS. [CHAP. LXXXIX. 190 it of vesicles or acini lined with tall columnar epithelium, and traversed by irregular solid cords and bands made up of the same kind of cells. The new growth is distinguished from mere hypertrophy of the follicles that are lined with columnar epithelium in the normal gland by the presence of glandular tubules of the embryonic type. According to Wolfler this form is very rare. Goitre is dangerous to the patient afflicted with it chiefly from the pressure it may exert on the trachea, the oesophagus, or the large vessels of the neck. The trachea is compressed when the goitre grows down beneath the sternum, or when it reaches a very large size and surrounds the trachea and oesophagus or pushes them to one side. The continuous pressure sometimes causes atrophy of the tracheal cartilages, and the tumour then protrudes into the air-passage. Accessory thyroid glands may become goitrous like the principal mass. Eeferences :—Ecker, Zeitschr. f. rat. med. vi 1847 ; Lebert, Die Krankh. d. Schilddriise Breslau 1862 ; Friedreich, Virchow's Handb. d. spec. Path. v 1858 ; Rokitansky, Anat. d. Kropfes Vienna 1849 ; Davies, Trans. Path. Soc. 1849 ; Virchow, Krankh. Geschwiilste in ; Lucke, Pitha u. Billroth's Handb. d. Chir. ill 1875 ; Demme, Gerhardfs Handb. d. Kinderkr. in ; Stro- meyer, Arch.f. phys. Heilk. ix (1850); Guillot, Arch, ge'nerales 1860; Parsons, Med. Times and Gaz. 2, 1862 ; Konig, Arch.f. Heilk. 1865; Geuzmer, Virch. Arch. vol. 74; Lucke, D. Zeitschr. f. Chir. vn; Kaufmann, ibid, xviu; W. Muller, Jena. Zeitschr. f. Med. vi 1871 ; Cohnheim, Virch. Arch. vol. 68; Buob, Du goitre conge'n. Strasburg 1867 ; Hecker, Monatsschr. f. Geburts- kunde xxxi 1868; Spiegelberg, Wiirzburg. med. Zeitschr. 1864; Niepce, Traits du goitre Paris 1851 ; Luton, Art. Goitre, Nouv. diet, de me"d. xvi 1872 ; Berger, Arch, de med. 1874; Hildebrand, Art. Struma, Eulenburg's Real- encyclop.; Wolfler, Ueb. d. Entwickelung u. d. Baud. Schilddriise Vienna 1880 and Entwick. und Bau d. Kropfes, Langenbeck's Arch, xxix 1883; Madelung (accessory thyroids) ibid, xxiv ; Leitz, ibid, xxix ; Gore, Fortschr. d. Med. i 1883 ; Gutknecht, Virch. Arch. vol. 99 ; Streckeisen, ibid. vol. 103. The account in the text is based chiefly on the recent admirable researches of Wolfler : without agreeing with him in all details we think his work the best that has yet appeared on the structure and genesis of goitre. 622. The adenomata described in the last Article do not in general extend beyond the limits of the thyroid gland, and are therefore to be classed with the innocent or non-malignant growths. Varieties of proliferous cystadenoma and follicular adenoma do however occur, which are characterised by their vascularity, their highly cellular nature, and their rapid growth; and these are apt to recur after excision. Other varieties depart more or less from the adenomatous type, approaching that of carcinoma, and these may form metastases. These transitional varieties are best described as malignant adenomata (Wolfler). They have in parts a greyish-white medullary or encephaloid appearance, and contain amid structures unmistakeably adenomatous patches exactly resembling carcino- matous tissue. This is the case even when the metastatic growths have a structure almost exactly corresponding to that of the