THE CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM. [CHAP. XCV. 290 were inundated by the multitude of extravasated cells, and presently undergoes degeneration and dissolution. When a por- tion of the tissue is thus liquefied and converted into a yellowish or greyish or putrid pus-like cream, the encephalitis or myelitis has issued in abscess. In like manner purulent meningeal inflammations due to other causes [e.g. suppuration of bone, or septic embolism) sometimes extend to the substance of the brain or cord and lead to abscess. As a rule however the process is not so violent or so rapid. When irritant matters reach the interior of the brain or cord through the blood-vessels without affecting the meninges on the way, a local inflammation is set up which at first may not extend to the pia mater. If the irritant is one which has the power of setting up suppuration (such as the pyaemic micrococci), and lodges in a capillary or small vein, its first effect is to produce minute haemorrhagic extravasations. These in the course of a few days become yellowish-white, with perhaps some slight blood- staining in the larger patches, and rapidly assume the appearance of abscesses. The number of extravasated white cells increases steadily, and at length the nerve-tissue breaks down and liquefies. If at the same time one or more of the arteries have been blocked by embolism the inflammatory changes are accompanied or preceded by those characteristic of anaemic or haemorrhagic necrosis (Art. 642). The final result is however the same: an abscess is formed, distinguished only from those already described by its possibly larger size. Both forms of embolic suppuration occur under the same conditions as lead to purulent meningitis, namely pyaemia, endo- carditis, suppuration or gangrene of the lung, putrid bronchitis, croupous pneumonia, cerebrospinal meningitis, etc. Embolic abscesses arise most commonly in the cerebral hemispheres and cerebellum, rarely in the cerebral axis, and more rarely still in the cord : they are sometimes multiple. They contain as a rule creamy yellow or pale-greenish pus. The smallest are as large as a pin's head, the larger ones may occupy the greater part of a lobe: most frequently they are from the size of a walnut to that of a hen's egg. When recent the wall of an abscess has a broken-down appearance, the tissue around being oedematous and often beset with small points of haemorrhage. If close beneath the pia mater an abscess generally sets up meningitis, and if it breaks into a ventricle a violent inflammation of that region ensues. Only the very smallest abscesses are capable of absorption and repair by cicatrisation. The larger ones, if not fatal by pressure or meningitis, become enclosed in a granulating capsule or mem- brane and may exist for years in a quiescent state. So early as four weeks after its first appearance an abscess may be walled off from the surrounding tissue by a grey or greyish-red zone : in the