229 CARTILAGES OF THE NOSE. the margin of the nasal and superior maxillary bones ; anteriorly to the cartilage of the septum, and, inferiorly, to the lower cartilage by means of a tough fibrous membrane. The lower is elongated, and curved upon itself in such a way as to form not only half the apex but the lateral boundary of the external opening of the nostrils. Superiorly, it is connected by fibrous membrane to the upper cartilage; internally, it is in contact with its fellow of the opposite side, forming the upper part of the columna nasi; posteriorly, it is attached by fibrous tissue to the superior maxillary bone: in this tissue, at the base of the ala, are usually found two or three nodules of cartilage, called cartilagines sesamoidece. By their elasticity these several cartilages keep the nostrils continually open, and restore them to their ordinary size whenever they have been expanded by muscular action. The cartilage of the septum is placed perpendicularly in the middle line : it may lean a little, however, to one side or the other, and in some instances-it is perforated, so that the two nasal cavities communicate with each other. The cartilage is smooth and flat, and its outline is nearly triangular. The posterior border is received into a groove in the perpendicular plate of the eth- moid ; the anterior border is much thicker than the rest of the septum, and is connected, superiorly, with the nasal bones, and on either side with the lateral cartilages. The inferior border is attached to the vomer and the median ridge at the junction of the palatine processes of the superior maxillae. The muscles moving the nasal cartilages have been described with the dissection of the face (p. 82). Interior of A vertical section should be made through the the Nose. right nasal cavity, a little on the same side of the middle line, to expose the partly bony and partly cartilaginous partition of the nasal cavities (septum narium). Each nasal fossa is narrower above than below. The greatest perpendicular depth of each fossa is about the centre; from this point the depth gradually lessens towards the anterior and the posterior openings of the nose. Laterally, each fossa is very narrow in consequence of the projection of the spongy bones towards the septum: this