308 PALM OF THE HAND. from the tendinous expansion of the flexor carpi ulnaris: it is inserted by a flat tendon into the inner side of the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is to draw this finger from the others. Its nerve comes from the deep branch of the ulnar. Flexor Brevis This slender muscle may be considered as a Minimi Digiti. portion of the preceding. It arises from the unciform bone and annular ligament, and is inserted with the tendon of the abductor into the base of the first phalanx of the little finger. Its action is similar to that of the abductor. Nerve from deep branch of ulnar. Between the origins of the abductor and flexor brevis minimi digiti, the deep branch of the ulnar artery and nerve sinks down to form the deep palmar arch. Opponens The last two muscles must be reflected from Minimi Digiti. their insertion, to expose the opponens minimi digiti. It arises from the unciform process and the annular ligament, and is inserted along the ulnar side of the shaft of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Its action is to draw this bone, the most movable of all the metacarpal bones of the fingers, towards the thumb. Thus it greatly strengthens the grasp of the palm. Nerve from deep branch of ulnar. Now cut through all the flexor tendons, and remove the deep fascia of the palm, to see the deep arch of arteries and its branches. n -vThe radial artery, sinking into the space be- Branches of b r the Radial Ar- tween the first and second metacarpal bones, enters tery in the the palm between the inner head of the flexor Palm- brevis and the adductor pollicis, and gives off three branches—the arteria princeps pollicis, the radialis indicis, and the palmaris profunda, which unites with the ulnar to form the deep arch. The arteria princcps pollicis runs in front of the abductor indicis (first dorsal interosseous), close along the metacarpal bone of the thumb : in the interval between the lower portions of the flexor brevis pollicis, the artery divides into two digital branches, which proceed one on either side of the thumb, and inosculate at the apex of the last phalanx. Their