449 TRIGONE OF THE BLADDER. perforate the coats of the bladder obliquely, and slant towards each other, standing out in relief under the mucous membrane.* A slight ridge proceeds from the orifice of each ureter to the neck of the bladder, looking like a continuation of the ureter itself. If the mucous membrane be removed from these ridges, we find that they are produced by muscular fibres. Sir Charles Bell,f who first drew attention to them, believed them to be of use in regulating the orifices of the ureters, and named them the muscles of the ureters. Trigone of the The ridges, converging from the ureters, form Bladder. with a horizontal line, drawn between their orifices, a smooth triangular area, called, by a French anatomist^ the trigone vesicate. The mucous membrane of this area is more firmly adherent to the subjacent tissue than in other parts of the bladder, and is therefore perfectly smooth. It is more richly provided with blood-vessels and nerves than the rest of the bladder, and is endowed with more acute sensibility. This is why a stone is more painful when the bladder is empty; and in the erect, than in the recumbent position. The bladder is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior vesical arteries. The superior comes from the un- obliterated portion of the umbilical; the middle, from the superior vesical or the internal iliac; the inferior, from the anterior division of the internal iliac or the pudic. The veins of the bladder form large plexuses around its neck, sides, and base, and empty themselves into the internal iliac veins. The lymphatics follow the course of the veins. * This slanting of the ureters serves all the uses of a valve. The urine enters the bladder, drop by drop, but cannot return, because the internal coat is pressed against the other side of the orifice, so as to stop it. When the bladder becomes thickened, in consequence of difficulty in passing the water, it sometimes happens that the ureters lose their valvular direction, so that the urine, when the bladder contracts, is partly forced back up the ureters ; the result is, that they become di- lated, and the pelvis of the kidney also. f ' Med. Chir. Trans.' vol. iii. He says, ' These muscles guard the orifices of the ureters by preserving the obliquity of the passage, and pulling down the extremities of the ureters according to the degree of the contraction of the bladder generally.' % Lieutaud.