581 DISSECTION OP THE BRAIN. a. The anterior cerebral artery passes forwards to reach the longi- tudinal fissure between the hemispheres, curves round the front part of the corpus callosum, then runs backwards along its upper surface (under the name of the artery of the corpus callosum), and terminates in branches which anastomose with the posterior cerebral. The anterior cerebral arteries of opposite sides run close together • and at the base of the brain are connected by a transverse branch, called the anterior communicating artery (fig. 139). b. The middle cerebral artery, the largest branch of the internal carotid, runs deeply within the fissure of Sylvius, and divides into many branches, distributed to the anterior and middle lobes. Near its origin it gives off a multitude of small arteries, which pierce the locus per- foratus anticus to supply the corpus striatum. c. The posterior communicating artery proceeds directly backwards to join the posterior cerebral; thus establishing at the base of the brain the free arterial inosculation called the circle of Willis. d. The anterior choroid artery, a small branch of the internal carotid, arises external to the posterior communicating artery. It runs back- wards, and enters the fissure at the bottom of the middle horn of the lateral ventricle, to terminate in the choroid plexus of that cavity. Vertebral This artery, a branch of the subclavian in the Artery. first par^ 0f course, winds backwards along the arch of the atlas, and enters the skull through the foramen magnum by perforating the posterior occipito-atlantoid ligament. It then curves round the medulla oblongata between the hypoglossal nerve and the anterior root of the first cervical. At the lower border of the pons Varolii, the two arteries unite to form a single trunk —the 6 basilar'—which is lodged in the groove along the middle of the pons, and bifurcates at its upper border into the posterior cerebral arteries. Each vertebral artery, before joining its fellow, gives off— a. A posterior meningeal branch, distributed to the posterior fossa of the skull. b. Anterior and posterior spinal arteries, which run along the median fissures of the front and back surfaces of the spinal cord. c. The inferior cerebellar artery, sometimes a branch of the basilar, but more frequently of the vertebral, passes backwards between the hypo-