140 THE LUNGS. Introduce your hand into the pleural sac, and ascertain that the reflection of the pleura on to the diaphragm corresponds with an imaginary line commencing at the lower part of the sternum, and sloping along the cartilages of the successive ribs down to the lower border of the last rib. Supposing a ball to lodge in the pleural sac, it might fall upon the dome of the diaphragm, and roll down to the lowest part of the pleural cavity. The place, therefore, to extract it, would be in the back, at the eleventh intercostal space. This operation has been done during life with success. Position and ^he lurigs are situated in the chest, one on each Form of the side of the heart. Each fits accurately into the Lungs, cavity which contains it. Each, therefore, is co- nical in form ; the base rests on the diaphragm; the apex projects into the root of the neck a little more than an inch above the sternal end of the clavicle. Its outer surface is adapted to the ribs ; its inner surface is excavated to make room for the heart. The best way to see the shape of the lungs is to inject them through the trachea with wax, which is tantamount to taking a cast of each thoracic cavity. In such a preparation, besides the general con- vexities and concavities alluded to, you would find in the right lung a little indentation for the right brachio-cephalic vein, in the left an indentation for the arch of the aorta and the left subclavian artery. Each lung is divided into an upper and a lower lobe by a deep fissure, which commences, behind, about three inches from the apex, and proceeds obliquely downwards and forwards to the junc- tion of the 6th rib with its cartilage (fig. 21). Speaking broadly, nearly the whole of the anterior portion of the lung is formed by the upper lobe; nearly the whole of the posterior portion by the lower lobe. It should be noticed, however, that the upper lobe of the right lung is divided by a second fissure which marks off, from its lower part, a triangular portion called its middle lobe. The dimensions of the right lung are greater than those of the left in all directions except the vertical; the reason of this excep- tion is the greater elevation of the diaphragm on the right side