C09 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. mrpora geniculata, internum and externum. These consist of small accumulations of grey matter, beneath the white ; one being situated to the outer, the other to the inner side of the optic tract, no*. 145. A narrow band of white substance connects the external one with the nates, and a similar band connects the internal one with the testes.* Third Ven- This is the narrow fissure between the optic tiucle. thalami, and reaches down to the base of the brain. Its roof is formed by the velum interpositum and fornix ; the floor, which increases in depth in front, is formed by certain parts at the base of the brain, found within the interpeduncular space—viz., the locus perforatus posticus, corpora mammillaria, tuber cinereum, infundibulum, and lamina cinerea, all of which are best seen in a vertical section, as shown p. 601. In front, it is bounded by the anterior crura of the fornix, and the anterior commissure; laterally, by the optic thalami and the peduncles of the pineal body ; behind, it communicates with the fourth ventricle through the iter a tertio ad quartum ventriculum, which is a long canal beneath the corpora quadrigemina. Passing across the third ventricle are seen three Commissures. . . . . ,, . . commissures, the anterior, middle, and posterior. The middle commissure may be seen by gently separating the optic thalami, and is about half an inch in breadth. This is composed entirely of grey substance, and in most brains, owing to its softness, is generally torn before it can be examined.f The anterior commissure is a round white cord, which lies immediately in front of the anterior crura of the fornix, and connects the corpora striata. This commissure may be traced on each side, through the corpora striata, extending backwards far into the * These bands are faintly marked in man, but are more apparent in the lower animals. f The soft commissure does not appear to be a very essential constituent part of the brain. It is not found before the ninth month of fetal life; and in some in- stances according to our observations, is never developed. Wenzel states that it is absent in about one out of seven subjects ('De plenitiori Struct. Cerebri Horn, et Brut.' Tubingen, 1812). R R