NEKVES OP THE BACK. 242 Suboccipital Observe that the obliqui (superior and inferior) Triangle. and the rectus capitis posticus major, form what is called the suboccipital triangle. The outer side is formed by the obliquus superior; the inner, by the rectus capitis pos- ticus major; the lower, by the obliquus inferior. Within this triangle may be seen the arch of the atlas, and the vertebral artery lying in a groove on its upper surface. Between the artery and the bone appears the posterior division of the suboccipital nerve, which here sends branches to the recti postici, the obliqui, and the complexus: that is to say, it supplies the muscles which form the triangle, and the complexus that covers it. Eectus Capitis This small muscle extends between the trans- Lateralis. verse process of the first vertebra and the eminen- tia jugularis of the occiput; but, since this eminence is the trans- verse process of the occipital vertebra, the muscle should be considered as an intertransverse one. Its nerve comes from the anterior division of the sub-occipital. Nerves of the The posterior branches of the spinal nerves Ba-ck. supply the muscles and skin of the back. They pass backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, and divide into external and internal branches. The general plan upon which these nerves are arranged is the same throughout the whole length of the spine ; but since there are certain peculi- arities deserving of notice in particular situations, we must examine each region separately. Cervical The posterior division of the first cervical nerve Eegion. (the suboccipital) passes between the arch of the atlas and the vertebral artery, and divides into branches which supply the recti and obliqui muscles concerned in the movement of the head. It also sends downwards a loop to communicate with the second cervical nerve. It sometimes gives off a cutaneous branch which accompanies the occipital artery, and is distributed to the skin of the back of the scalp. The posterior branch (the great occipital) of the second cervical nerve is the largest of the series, and emerges between the arches of the atlas and axis. It turns upwards beneath the inferior