NEEVES OF THE FACE. 93 Sensory These are the supra-orbital, the supra- and infra- Nbrves of the trochlear, the naso-lobular, the temporo-malar, Face> the infra-orbital, and the mental, all branches of the fifth pair. The supra-orbital nerve is a branch of the first division of the fifth pair. It leaves the orbit through the supra-orbital notch, and is at first covered by the orbicularis and occipito- frontalis. But it presently divides into wide-spreading branches, which supply the skin of the forehead, upper eyelid, and scalp. It communicates with the facial nerve on the forehead. The supra- orbital artery is a branch of the ophthalmic. The supra-trochlear n., or internal frontal, appears at the inner angle of the orbit, and sends down, in front of the pulley of the obliquus superior oculi, a loop to communicate with the infra- trochlear. Its further course has been described (p. 4). The infra-trochlear n. issues from the orbit below the pulley, and supplies branches to the eyelids, the mucous membrane, lachrymal sac, and the side of the nose. The infra-orbital nerve is the terminal branch of the superior maxillary or second division of the fifth nerve. It emerges with its artery from the infra-orbital foramen, covered by the levator labii superioris. The nerve immediately divides into several branches, palpebral, nasal, and labial', the palpebral, ascending beneath the orbicularis, supply the lower eyelid, and communicate with the facial: the nasal pass inwards to supply the nose and join the nasal branch (naso-lobular) of the first division of the fifth ; the labial, by far the most numerous, descend into the upper lip, and eventually terminate in lashes of filaments, which endow the papillae of the lip with exquisite sensibility. Close to the infra- orbital foramen is the infra-orbital plexus, before alluded to (p. 92). The infra-orbital artery is the terminal branch of the internal maxillary; it supplies the muscles, the skin, and the front teeth of the upper jaw, and inosculates with the transverse facial, buccal, facial, and coronary arteries. The naso-lobular nerve is distributed to the tip and lobule of the nose, and is joined by filaments from the facial nerve.