SHOULDER JOINT. 342 To admit the free motion of the head of the humerus upon the glenoid cavity, it is requisite that the capsular ligament of the joint be loose and capacious. Accordingly, the head of the bone, when detached from its muscular connections, may be separated from the glenoid cavity to the extent of an inch, or more, without laceration of the capsule. This explains the elongation of the arm observed in some cases in which effusion takes place into the joint; also in cases of paralysis of the deltoid. The capsular ligament is attached above, round the circum- ference of the glenoid cavity ; below, round the anatomical neck of the humerus. It is strongest on its upper aspect, weakest and longest on its lower. It is strengthened on its upper and pos- terior part by the tendons of the supra-spinatus, infra-spinatus, and teres minor; its inner part is strengthened by the broad tendon of the subscapularis, its lower part by the long head of the triceps. Thus the circumference of the capsule is surrounded by tendons on every side, excepting a small space towards the axilla. If the humerus be raised, it will be found that the head of the bone rests upon this unprotected portion of the capsule, between the tendons of the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps : through this part of the capsule the head of the bone is first protruded in dis- locations into the axilla. At the upper and inner side of the joint, a small opening (foramen ovale) is observable in the capsular ligament, through which the tendon of the subscapularis passes, and comes in contact with the synovial membrane. The upper surface of the capsule is strengthened by a strong band of ligamentous fibres, called the coraco-humeral or accessory ligament. It is attached to the root of the coracoid process, expands over the upper surface of the capsule, with which it is inseparably united, and is fixed into the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Open the capsule to see the tendon of the long head of the biceps. It enters the joint through the groove between the two tuberosities, becomes slightly flattened, and passes over the head