MESENTERIC VESSELS. »^92 r "M* TTVQ "I? AT "E1 "D TY Dissection of the Inferior^ Mesenteric To trace this artery, the small intestine must be drawn over towards the right side, and the peri- toneum covering the artery removed. It is given off from the front of the aorta, about two inches above its bifurcation. Descending towards the left iliac fossa, j.t^ crosses obliquely over the left common iliac artery, passes between the layers of the meso-rectum, and, taking the name of superior hcemorrhoidal, is finally distributed to the upper part of the rectum. Its branches are :— 1. The colica sinistra, which crosses behind the peritoneum, over the left kidney, and supplies the descending colon. 2. The sigmoidea, which is distributed to the sigmoid flexure. 3. The superior hcBmovrhoidal, which supplies the upper part of the rectum, and will be dissected with the side view of the pelvis. These branches of the inferior mesenteric inosculate in the form of arches, like the colic branches of the superior mesenteric. The colica sinistra, too, forms a large arterial arch with the colica media, so that there is a chain of arterial communications from one end to the other of the intestinal canal (fig. 83). The inferior mesenteric vein ascends nearly vertically in front of the left psoas, and joins the splenic behind the pancreas. Tv To see the relations of the duodenum and the Dissection. pancreas, two ligatures about an inch apart should be placed on the upper end of the jejunum, and two others at a similar distance apart on the lower end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon. After the jejunum and the sigmoid flexure have been divided between the ligatures respectively, the small and large intestines can be removed. By turning up the stomach, we expose the duodenum curving round the great end of the pancreas. Duodenum, The duodenum (p. 387) commences at the Kelations of. pyloric end of the stomach, and terminates on the left side of the second lumbar vertebra, where the intestinum jejunum begins. It is divided into three parts, an ascending, descending, and transverse. The first portion ascends obliquely as high as the neck of the gall-bladder; then making a sudden bend, it descends in front