BRANCHES OP THE EXTERNAL CAROTID. 55 to join the recurrent laryngeal nerve; and a small branch pierces the arytenoideus to supply the mucous membrane beneath it. The external branch accompanies the crico-thyroid artery, and after distributing filaments to the pharyngeal plexus, supplies the inferior constrictor and the crico-thyroid muscles. Lingual The lingual artery and its branches have been Aeteet. described (p. 51). Facial Aet y ^ac^a^ artery an(l its branches below the jaw have also been described (p. 45). Occipital The occipital artery arises from the posterior Aeteet. part 0f tne external carotid, usually opposite the facial artery and runs backwards along the lower border of the digastricus towards the mastoid process. It then passes under all the muscles inserted into the mastoid process—namely, the sterno- mastoid, the splenius capitis, the trachelo-mastoid, and the digas- tric. Arrived at the back of the head, the artery runs superficial to the superior oblique, the rectus capitis posticus major and the complexus, and divides into wide-spreading branches for the supply of the scalp. In the first part of its course, the occipital artery crosses over the internal carotid artery, the internal jugular vein, the pneumo gastric and the spinal accessory nerves, and is itself crossed by the hypoglossal nerve. It sends off the six following branches: 1. The superior sterno-mastoid, which enters the muscle with the nervus accessorius. 2. The auricular ramifies on the cranial aspect of the concha. 3. The posterior meningeal ascends with the internal jugular vein, and enters the cranium through the foramen jugulare to supply the dura mater of the posterior fossa. 4. The princeps cervicis, which we shall see better hereafter, is a short trunk which runs down the back of the neck, and divides into two branches —a superficial, lying beneath the splenius, and supplying also the trapezius, and a deep branch lying under the complexus, and anastomosing with the deep cervical artery between this muscle and the semi-spinalis colli. 5. The mastoid enters the foramen in the mastoid process, and supplies the dura mater. 6. The cranial branches supply the scalp on its posterior aspect.