INTERCOSTAL VESSELS. 149 obliquely to reach their intercostal spaces ; the lower run more trans- versely. As they passputwards, they are covered by the pleura and the sympathetic nerves ; the right, in addition, pass behind the oeso- phagus, thoracic duct, and the vena azygos major. Having reached the intercostal space, each artery divides into an anterior and a posterior branch. The anterior branch in direction and size appears to be the continuation of the common trunk. At first it runs along the middle of the intercostal space, lying upon the external inter- costal muscle, and separated from the cavity of the chest by the pleura and intercostal fascia. Here, therefore, it is liable to be injured by a wound in the back. But near the angle of the rib it passes between the intercostal muscles, and occupies the groove in the lower border of the rib above. Here it gives off a small branch, the collateral intercostal, which runs for some distance along the upper border of the rib below. After supplying the muscies, the main trunk anastomoses with the anterior intercostal branch of the internal mammary artery. In some cases this branch is as large as the intercostal itself, and situated so as to be directly exposed to injury in the operation of tapping the chest. In its course along the intercostal space, each artery sends branches to the intercostal muscles and the ribs. About midway between the sternum and the spine, each gives off a small branch, which accompanies the lateral cutaneous branch of the inter- costal nerve. The continued trunk, gradually decreasing in size, becomes very small towards the anterior part of the space, and is placed more in the middle of it. Those of the true intercostal spaces inosculate with branches of the internal mammary, and thoracic branches of the axillary; those of the false run between the layers of the abdominal muscles, and anastomose with the epigastric and lumbar arteries. The posterior or dorsal branch passes backwards between the transverse processes of the vertebrae, on the inner side of the anterior costo-transverse ligament, and is distributed to the muscles and skin of the back. Each sends an artery through the inter- vertebral foramen to the spinal cord and its membranes. On the right side the intercostal veins terminate in the vena