15 CAVEKNOUS SINUS. The sixth (abdacens) pierces the dura mater behind the body of the sphenoid bone, which it grooves. It then passes along the inner wall of the cavernous sinus, external to the carotid artery, and enters the orbit through the sphenoidal fissure, to supply the external rectus. It is connected with the cavernous plexus as it passes along the inner wall of the sinus. The seventh, consisting of the facial and auditory nerves, passes (with the auditory artery) through the meatus auditorius internus, where the two are connected with each other by small offsets. At first the facial nerve lies internal to and above the auditory ; but at the bottom of the auditory meatus, the facial nerve leaves it to traverse a tortuous bony canal, the £ aquseductus Fallopii;' the auditory being distributed to the internal ear. The eighth, consisting of the glosso-pharyngeal, pneumo- gastric and spinal accessory nerves, passes through the anterior part of the foramen lacerum posterius. These three divisions do not all pass through the same tube of the dura mater. The glosso-pharyngeal has a separate tube, anterior to the other two, which have a common one. The ninth, or hypoglossal nerve, passes through the anterior condyloid foramen in two fasciculi, which unite external to the skull. We must now examine the cavernous sinus, and Dissection the nerves which course along its walls to the orbit—namely, the third, the fourth, the ophthalmic division of the fifth and the sixth nerves. Cavernous This sinus (fig. 4) lies by the side of the body Sinus. of the sphenoid bone. In front it receives the ophthalmic vein, which passes backwards through the sphenoidal fissure ; while posteriorly it divides into the superior and inferior petrosal sinuses, which have been already described; on the inner side it communicates with the circular sinus, which surrounds the pituitary body (P in the diagram 4). The interior of the sinus is remarkable for the numerous fine bands of tissue which inter- lace in all directions. In the outer wall of the cavernous sinus we trace, from above