PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 509 called the fascia propria. In front of this is the cribriform fascia. Lastly, there is the subcutaneous tissue and skin. Seat of The seat of stricture is usually at the femoral Stricture. ring, and the position of the neighbouring blood- vessels indicates that the proper direction in which to divide the stricture is, either directly inwards, through Grimbernat's ligament, as recommended by Sir W. Lawrence, or upwards through Hey's ligament, as recommended by Sir A. Cooper.* There is no risk of wounding an artery, supposing the vessels to take their ordi- nary course. But it occasionally happens (p. 441), that the obtu- rator artery runs above (in the recumbent position) the femoral ring; in such a case, the neck of the sac would be encircled by a large blood-vessel.f From the examination of two hundred bodies, the chances are about seventy to one against this unfavour- able distribution. But the possibility of it has given rise to this rule in practice—not to cut deeply in any one place through the stricture, but rather to notch it in several. By this proceeding we are much less likely to wound the abnormal artery, because it does not run at the base of Grimbernat's ligament, but about a line and a half from the margin of it;J Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in a femoral hernia. The normal anatomy in each case being similar, it might be supposed that all operations for the relief of this kind of hernia would be straightforward and pretty much alike ; but this is very far from being the case : indeed, surgeons agree that they never operate without the expectation of meeting some peculiarity. * The operation recommended by Sir A. Cooper is that usually performed now ■ because, if Gimbernat's ligament be divided, its cut edges often retract to such an ex- tent, that no truss can possibly retain the hernia when the patient assumes the erect posture. f The museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital contains two examples of double femoral hernia? in the male, with the obturator arising on each side from the epigas- tric. In three out of the four hernia?, the obturator runs on the inner side of the mouth of the sac. See Prep. 5o, 69, Series 17. | During the session of 1867-68 more than half a dozen instances occurred where the obturator artery was given off by a common origin with the epigastric artery. In