262 B0UNDAE1ES OF AXILLA. coming out between the ribs, and then crossing the axillary space. These nerves are the lateral cutaneous branches of the intercostal nerves; they perforate the intercostal spaces between the digita- tions of the serratus magnus, midway between the sternum and the spine, and divide into anterior and posterior branches. The anterior turn over the pectoralis major, to supply the skin on the front of the chest and the mammary gland. The 'posterior pass backwards over the latissimus dorsi, and are distributed to the skin covering this muscle and the scapula. Intercosto-hu- The posterior lateral branch of the second inter-, meral Nerves. costal nerve requires a special description; it is larger than the others, and is called the intercosto-humeral be- cause it supplies the integuments ot" the arm. It comes through the second intercostal space, traverses the upjSer part of the axilla, where it receives a branch of the lesser internal cutaneous nerve (nerve of Wrisberg), and terminates in filaments, which are dis- tributed to the skin on the inner side of the arm, as low as the internal condyle. The corresponding branch of the third inter- costal is also an intercosto-humeral nerve. It receives a branch from the second, and runs a similar course. The distribution of these nerves accounts for the pain down the arm which is sometimes experienced in pleurisy. Boundaries of The axilla is a conical space, of which the the Axilla. summit is beneath the clavicle, and the base be- tween the pectoralis major and the latissimus dorsi. Obviously it varies in capacity according to the position of the arm. On the inner side, it is bounded by the four upper ribs, covered by the serratus magnus; on the outer, by the humerus, covered by the coraco-brachialis and biceps ; in front, by the pectoralis major and minor; behind, by the latissimus dorsi, teres major, and subscapu- lars. Its anterior and posterior boundaries converge from the chest, so that the axilla becomes narrower towards the arm. With a full view of the axilla before you, bear in mind that pus may burrow under the pectoral muscles, or under the scapula, or that it may run up beneath the clavicle and point in the neck, if the abscess be allowed to remain unopened.