95 TEMPORAL REGION. aurem; here it is accompanied by the auriculo-temporal branch of the inferior division of the fifth nerve. It gives off the follow- ing branches: a. Several small branches to the parotid gland, the temporo-maxillary articulation, and the masseter. b. The transversalis faciei (p. 87). c. The anterior auricular branches, two in number, superior and inferior, ramify on the front of the pinna of the ear, inosculating with the posterior auricular. d. The middle temporal, a small vessel, pierces the temporal fascia above the zygoma, and running in the substance of the temporal muscle, anastomoses with the temporal branches of the internal maxillary. Of the two branches into which the temporal divides, the anterior runs tortuously towards the external angle of the frontal bone, distant from it about an inch. Its ramifications extend over the forehead, supplying the orbicularis and frontalis m., and inosculate with the supra- orbital and frontal arteries. The posterior runs towards the back of the head, and inosculates freely with the occipital and posterior auricular. The anterior branch, although the smaller, is usually selected for arteriotomy, the posterior being covered by a strong and unyielding fascia. Atjbiculo-tem- This nerve supplies the temple and side of the pobax Nerve. head with common sensation. It arises from the third division of the fifth pair by two roots (between which the middle meningeal artery runs). From its origin it proceeds out- wards beneath the external pterygoid, between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament. It then ascends beneath the parotid, over the root of the zygoma, where it accompanies the temporal artery, and divides, like it, into an anterior and a posterior branch. Its ramifications correspond with those of the artery. Near the condyle of the jaw the auriculo-temporal nerve sends round the external carotid artery communicating branches to the upper division of the facial nerve, endowing it with common sen- sibility. It here distributes branches to the parotid gland, the meatus auditorius, the membrana tympani, and the articulation of the jaw. Above the zygoma it gives off two filaments (auricular), an upper and a lower ; the upper ramifies in the skin of the outer