SOLE OF THE FOOT. 562 Plantar The posterior tibial nerve divides, like the Nerves. artery, into an external and internal plantar. The internal plantar is the larger, and supplies nerves to the three inner toes and a half, like the median in the palm. It also sup- plies the muscles on the inner side of the sole, the abductor pollicis, the flexor brevis pollicis, the flexor brevis digitorum, and the two inner lumbricales; also articular branches to the tarsus and metatarsus. The external plantar nerve sends branches to the flexor accessorius and the abductor minimi digiti, and then divides into a superficial and deep branch. The superficial branch supplies the fifth toe and the outer side of the fourth toe (like the ulnar nerve in the palm), and the flexor brevis minimi digiti. The deep branch accompanies the plantar arch, and fur- nishes nerves to the two outer lumbricales, the adductor pollicis, the transversalis pedis, and all the interossei. Third Layer Having traced the principal vessels and nerves, or Muscles. divide them with the flexor tendons near the os calcis, and turn them down toward the toes, to expose the deep muscles in the sole. These are, the flexor brevis and ad- ductor pollicis, the flexor brevis minimi digiti, and the transver- salis pedis. Flexor Brevis This muscle arises by a flat tendon from the Pollicis. cuboid bone, and from the fibrous prolongation of the tibialis posticus into the external cuneiform. It proceeds along the metatarsal bone of the great toe, and divides into two portions, which run one on each side of the long flexor tendon, and are inserted by tendons into the sides of the first phalanx of the great toe. The inner tendon is inseparably connected with the abductor pollicis, the outer with the adductor pollicis. In each tendon there is a sesamoid bone. These bones not only increase the strength of the muscle, but, both together, form a pulley for the free play of the long flexor tendon ; so that in walk- ing the tendon is not pressed upon. Its nerve comes from the internal plantar. Adductor This very powerful muscle arises from the Pollicis. bases of the third and fourth metatarsal bones,