27 SUPRA-CLAVICULAR TRIANGLE. It consists of two portions, a medullary and a spinal, and leaves the skull through the foramen jugulare. Here the medullary or accessory portion is connected with the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric by several filaments; and lower down it again joins the pneumogastric at the ganglion of the trunk, below which the two nerves become blended. The medullary and spinal portions communicate in the foramen jugulare. Below the foramen the spinal part runs behind the internal jugular vein, then pierces obliquely the upper third of the sterno-mastoid, and crosses the posterior triangle of the neck to the under surface of the trapezius, to which it is distributed. The nervus accessories supplies also the sterno-mastoid, and, after leaving the muscle, is joined by branches from the second and third cervical nerves. Beneath the trapezius it forms a plexus with the third and fourth cervical nerves. The upper mastoid artery, a branch of the occi- pital, enters the sterno-mastoid with the nerve. Supra-clavicu- The supra-clavicular triangle is bounded below lar Triangle. "by the clavicle, in front by the outer border of the sterno-mastoid, and above by the posterior portion of the omo- hyoid muscle. The area of the triangle thus formed will vary in proportion to the obliquity of the omo-hyoid muscle, and the extent to which the sterno-mastoid and trapezius are attached to the clavicle. The depth of the vessels and nerves contained in this space depends, not only upon the degree to which the clavicle arches forwards, but varies with the elevation and depression of the shoulder. Immediately beneath the skin covering this region we find the platysma myoides, the descending branches of the cervical plexus, and a layer of fascia which binds down the omo-hyoid muscle to the clavicle. Beneath this is a deeper layer of fascia, which covers the subclavian vessels and the brachial plexus of nerves, and descends with them beneath the clavicle into the axilla. Between these two layers we meet with more or less fat and areolar tissue, and lymphatic glands continuous with those in the axilla. It will be easily understood how a collection of pus, originating in the axilla, may ascend in front of the vessels and point above the