437 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. ^t This tube, about twenty-four inches in length, ■ ——?* conveys the seminal fluid from the testicle into the prostatic part of the urethra. It ascends at the back part of the spermatic cord through the inguinal canal into the abdo- men ; then, leaving the cord at the inner ring, it curves round the epigastric artery, then crosses over the external iliac vessels, and descends into the pelvis on the side of the bladder, gradually approaching nearer the middle line. Before it reaches the prostate it passes between the bladder and the ureter; then, becoming very tortuous, it runs internal to the vesicula seminalis, and is joined by the duct of this vesicle. The common duct thus formed, ductus communis ejaculatorius^ terminates in the lower part of the prostatic portion of the urethra (fig. 97, p. 435). In point of size and hardness, the vas deferens has very much the feel of whipcord.* Vesicula,. These are situated, one on either side, between Seminales. the bladder and the rectum (fig. 96). Each is a tube, but so convoluted that it is like a little sacculated bladder. When rolled up, the tube is about two and a half inches long; unrolled, it would be more than twice that length, and about the size of a small writing quill. Several csecal prolonga- tions proceed from the main tube, after the manner of a stag's horn. The vesiculae seminales do not run parallel, but diverge from each other, posteriorly, as far as the reflection of the recto- vesical peritoneal pouch, like the branches of the letter V ; and each lies immediately on the outer side of the vas deferens, into which it opens. The vesiculae seminales probably serve as reser- voirs for the semen. They contain a brownish-coloured fluid, presumed to be in some way accessory to the function of generation, f * The description in the text assumes the bladder to be distended. But when the bladder is empty the vas deferens runs down upon the side of the pelvis. In this course it may be seen, through the peritoneum, crossing—1, the external iliac vessels ; 2, the remains of the umbilical artery ; 3, the obturator artery and nerve ; 4, the ureter. t The vesiculse seminales are imperfectly developed till the age of puberty. In a child of three years of age they can hardly be inflated with the blowpipe.