CARPAL JOINTS. 349 from one to the other. There are usually two interosseous liga- ments, one on either side of the os magnum; sometimes there is a third, between the trapezium and trapezoid bones ; they are thicker and stronger than those of the upper row, and unite the bones more firmly together. Intercarpal The upper row of carpal bones is arranged in the Joint. form of an arch, so as to receive the corresponding- convex surfaces of the os magnum and unciforme. External to the os magnum, the trapezium and trapezoid bones present a slightly concave surface, which articulates with the scaphoid. In this way a joint admitting of flexion and extension only is formed between the upper and lower row. It is secured by anterior, posterior, and two lateral ligaments. The anterior ligaments consist of strong ligamentous fibres, which pass obliquely from the bones of the upper to those of the lower row. The posterior ligaments consist of oblique and trans- verse fibres, which connect the dorsal surfaces of the bones of the upper with the lower row. The lateral ligaments connect, externally, the scaphoid and trapezium; internally, the cuneiform and unciform bones. Divide the ligaments, to see the manner in which the carpal bones articulate with each other. Their surfaces are crusted with cartilage, and have a common synovial membrane. This mem- brane extends, superiorly, between the three bones of the upper row, so as to form two culs-de-sac; inferiorly, it is prolonged into the joint between the carpal and the second and third metacarpal bones. Joint between Tne trapezium presents a cartilaginous surface, Trapezium and convex in the transverse, and concave in the antero- the First Meta- posterior direction (i.e. saddle-shaped), which arti- carpal Bone. culates with the cartilaginous surface on the meta- carpal bone of the thumb, concave and convex in the opposite directions. This peculiar adaptation of the two surfaces permits the several movements of the thumb—viz., flexion, extension, abduction and adduction ; consequently circumduction. Thus we are enabled to oppose the thumb to all the fingers, which is one