fir* ^KF^t!!^ ifWt^sacf ■rn^uu htu r. kj. , . , ^ INFRA-CLAVICULAR REGION. 259 inserted into a groove on the under surface of the clavicle. Its "nerve comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves. Tts actwn is >to depress the clavicle, and prevent its too grout elevation. Relative posi- In the infra-clavicular space before us are the tion of the Axil- great vessels and nerves of the axilla in the first NehvIsESSELSAND Part of their course' They 1^ at a great depth from the surface. They are surrounded by a sheath of fascia, which descends with them beneath the clavicle. Their relations with regard to each other are as follows : The axillary vein lies in front of the artery, and rather to its thoracic | side. The brachial plexus of nerves is situated above the artery, and on a posterior plane. The plexus consists of two, or somet imes three, large cords, which result from the union of the anterior branches of the four lower cervical, and the first dorsal, nerves. The course and relations of the axillary artery will be examined subsequently. Thoracic Axis This is the first branch of the axillary artery. ™22££KS- It comes off above the pectoralis minor, and soon divides into three branches—the superior or short thoracic, the thoracica hiimerari'a, and the Woracica acromial is. The superior or short thoracic runs between the pectoralis major and minor, supplying both, and anastomosing with the intercostal and internal mammary arteries. The thoracica humeraria descends with the cephalic vein, in the interval between the pectoralis major and deltoid, and ramifies in both. The thoracica acromialis passes over the coracoid process to the under surface of the deltoid, which it supplies, and communicates with the posterior circum- flex, a branch of the axillary, and the supra-scapular, a branch of the subclavian. A constant though small branch, the clavicular, given off from this axis, runs along the anterior aspect of the sub- clavius. All these arteries are accompanied by veins, which most frequently empty themselves into the cephalic, but occasionally into the axillary vein. Cephalic Vein. ThG CePhalic vein ™ °ne of the principal cuta- neous veins of the arm. Commencing on the