192 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. cartilage and the cricoid there is a distinct joint, having a synovial membrane, and strengthened by a capsular ligament. The articu- lation allows of a movement revolving upon its own axis, and, consequently, permits the approximation of the two cartilages. Arytenoid These cartilages are situated, one on each side, Cartilages, at, the back of the cricoid cartilage. In the recent state, before the membranes and muscles have been removed, the space between them resembles the lip of a ewer *; hence their name. Each is pyramidal, with the apex upwards, and is about five or six lines in height, and three lines in diameter at its base. The posterior surface of each is triangular and concave, and gives attachment to the arytenoideus muscle: the anterior surface is irregular and convex, affording attachment to the thyro-arytenoi- deus, and to the superior or false vocal cord: the internal surface, the narrowest and nearly flat, faces the corresponding surface of the opposite cartilage, and is covered with mucous membrane. The base is broad, and presents a smooth somewhat triangular surface which articulates with the cricoid cartilage : in front of the base is the pointed anterior angle, which gives attachment to the true vocal cord, and contributes to form part of the boundary of the rima glottidis: at the outer and back part of the base is the external angle, into which certain muscles moving the cartilage are inserted: viz. the crico-arytenoideus posticus and crico-aryte- noideus lateralis. The base is articulated with the cricoid by a joint which has a loose capsular ligament and a synovial mem- brane, permitting motion in all directions, like the first joint of the thumb. The apex is truncated and points backwards and inwards. It is surmounted by a cartilaginous nodule, called the corniculum laryngis. Cuneiform These cartilages, sometimes called the cartilages Cartilages. 0f Wrisberg, are conical in form, and somewhat curved, with their broader part directed upwards and forwards. They are contained in the aryteno-epiglottidean fold. o ti This piece of yellow fibro-cartilage is situated in the middle line, and projects over the larynx like * ApvTaiva, a ewer.