361 ABDOMINAL MUSCLES. Cremastee The cremaster is a thin pale muscle, or the Muscle, reverse, according to the condition of the subject. It is best to regard it as a dfitadimfiPi nf the lnwesf, fibres of the internal oblique, which, proceeding from Poupart's ligament, descend in front nf ih* spa^giatic cord, and then arch up again to the spine and crest of the puhes. forming loops of different lengths; some reaching only as low as the external ring, others lower still, whilst the lowest spread out over the tunica vaginalis of the testis. The muscular fibres are fraved out, being connected by loose cellular tissue, and form a covering for the testis, called the cremasteric fascia. This muscle is absent in the female. Its nerve comes from the genital branch of the genito-crural, and its artery (cremasteric) from the deep epigastric. „ The internal oblique should now be detached Dissection. n from the ribs and the crest of the ilium, and turned forwards, without disturbing that portion of it connected with the crural arch. To avoid - cutting away any part of the transversalis in reflecting the internal oblique, dissect near the crest of the ilium, and search for an artery which runs between these muscles and may be followed as a guide. This artery, called the deep circum- flexa ilii, is a branch of the external iliac, and supplies the abdo- minal muscles. Beneath the internal oblique the continuations of the intercostal nerves and vessels are brought into view. These should be preserved. Transversals .This muscle arises from the outer third of Abdominis. Poupart's ligament, from the anterior two-thirds of the crest of the ilium, from a strong fascia attached to the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and, lastly, from the inner surfaces of the six or seven lower costal cartilages, by digita- tions which correspond with those of the diaphragm. From this origin the fibres pass horizontally forwards and terminate an- teriorly in a broad aponeurosis. Some of its fibres arch down- wards, and are inserted with some fibres of the internal oblique by means of a conjoined tendon into the pubes. The aponeurosis into which the fibres are inserted is broader below than above, and forms part of the posterior sheath of the rectus, excepting in the lower fourth, where it passes entirely in front.