183 SOFT PALATE. body of the sphenoid bone, externally by its pterygoid plate, below by the horizontal portion of the palate bone ; they are separated from each other by the vomer. On removing the mucous membrane from the posterior part of the roof of the nose and the top of the pharynx, you will find beneath it much fibrous tissue. Hence polypi growing from these parts are, generally, of a fibrous nature. Isthmus This name is given to the opening by which the Faucium. mouth communicates with the pharynx. It is bounded, above by the soft palate and uvula, below by the root of the tongue, and on either side by the arches of the palate, enclosing the tonsils between them. go p This movable prolongation of the roof of the mouth is attached to the border of the hard palate, and laterally to the side of the pharynx. Posteriorly it has a free edge, and a pendulous projection in the centre, called the uvula. It constitutes an imperfect partition between the mouth and the posterior nares. Its upper or nasal surface is convex and continuous with the floor of the nose; its lower surface is concave, in adaptation to the back of the tongue, and is marked in the middle by a ridge or raphe, indicating its original formation by two lateral halves. The soft palate, when at rest, hangs obliquely downwards and backwards; but in swallowing, it is raised to the horizontal position by the levatores palati, comes into apposition with the back of the pharynx, and thus prevents the food from passing through the nose. On making a perpendicular section through the soft palate, you see that the great bulk of it is made up of muciparous glands, which lie thick on its under surface to lubricate the passage of the food. Above these glands is the palato-glossus, then the aponeurosis of the palate; still higher, are the two portions of the palato-pharyngeus (separated by the fibres of the levator palati), the azygos uvulae, and, lastly, the nasal mucous membrane. The soft palate is supplied with blood by the descending palatine branch of the internal maxillary, and the ascending palatine branch of the facial. Its nerves are derived from the palatine branches of