MUSCLES OF THE FOREARM. 287 back of the wrist, it forms the posterior annular ligament, and in front, it is continuous with the anterior annular ligament. Above, the fascia is strengthened by fibres from the tendons of the biceps and brachialis anticus. The aponeurotic expansion from the inner edge of the tendon of the biceps is exceedingly strong. It braces the muscles on the inner side of the forearm, and interlaces at right angles with the fibres of the fascia attached to the internal condyle. The under surface of the fascia gives origin to the mus- cular fibres in the upper part of the forearm, and furnishes septa which separate the muscles, and form surfaces for their origin. The fascia is perforated at various parts for the passage of the cutaneous vessels and nerves of the forearm. Eemove the fascia from the muscles by incisions Dissection • • corresponding to those for reflecting the skin ; taking care of the cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves close to the wrist. Triangle at At the bend of the elbow is a triangular space, the Elbow. with its base towards the humerus ; on the inner side this space is bounded by the pronator teres ; on the outer, by the supinator radii longus. In it are the following objects, which must be carefully dissected:—1. In the centre is the brachial artery (with its companion veins) dividing into the radial and ulnar ; 2, on the outer side of the artery is the tendon of the- biceps ; 3, on the inner side is the median nerve; 4, the musculo- spiral nerve is partly concealed by the supinator longus ; 5, the radial recurrent artery; 6, the anterior ulnar recurrent; 7, the common interosseous branch of the ulnar artery; 8, the vena mediana profunda. Muscles of The muscles of the forearm are arranged in two the Forearm. groups ; one, consisting of supinators and exten- sors, is attached to the outer condyloid ridge and condyle ; the other, consisting of pronators and flexors, is attached to the inner condyle. The inner group should be examined first. They arise by a common tendon, and are arranged in the following order : pronator teres; flexor carpi radialis; palmaris longus; flexor carpi ulnaris, and flexor sublimis digitorum.