672 DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. warrant the assumption that the gradual contraction of the gubernaculum effects the descent of the testis. The organ begins to descend from the lumbar region about the fifth month of foetal life, reaches the internal ring about the seventh, and about the ninth has entered the scrotum. Its original peritoneal coat is retained throughout; but as it enters the inguinal canal, the peritoneal lining of the abdomen is pouched out before it, and eventually becomes the tunica vaginalis reflexa. Immediately after the descent of the testis, its serous bag communicates with the abdomen, and in the lower animals continues to do so throughout life."* But in the human subject the canal of com- munication soon begins to close. It closes at the upper extremity first,-)* and the closure is generally complete in a child born at its full time.J This provides against the occurrence of ruptures, to which man, owing to his erect position, is more exposed than animals. At the end of the first month after birth, the canal is entirely obliterated from the internal ring to the testis. Some- times, however, this obliteration fails, or is only partial; hence may arise congenital hernia, or hydrocele. The possible existence of a communication between the tunica vaginalis and the peritoneal cavity of the abdomen, is one reason among many why caution should be observed in treating hydroceles in children with stimu- lating injections. * According to Professor Owen, the African orang outang (Simia troglodytes) is the only exception to this rule. In this animal it is interesting to observe that the lower extremities are more fully developed as organs of support, and there is a liga- mentum teres in the hip-joint. f The frequency of hernia in the funicular portion of the vaginal process of the peritoneum hardly bears this out. | Camper has shown, that the canal on the right side is nearly always open at birth, whereas that on the left is usually closed. This explains the greater frequency of hernia on the right side in children under one year old. Thus out of 3,014 cases of inguinal hernia seen at the City of London Truss Society under one year, 2,269 occurred on the right side, and 745 on the left; or in the proportion of 3 to 1.