801 PALM OF THE HAND. In the palm of the hand the digital arteries, before they divide, are joined by branches from the corresponding palmar interosseous arteries (branches of the deep palmar arch) (fig. 58). The digital arteries freely communicate, on the palmar and dorsal aspect of the ringers, by transverse branches, which supply the joints and the sheaths of the tendons. Near the ungual phalanx, a considerable branch passes to the back of the finger, and forms a network of vessels which supply the matrix of the nail. Ulnar Nerve The ulnar nerve passes over the annular liga- in the Palm. ment into the palm, on the inner side of the ulnar artery, and a little behind it. It lies in the groove between the pisiform and unciform bones, so that it is perfectly secure from pressure. Immediately below the pisiform bone, the nerve divides into a superficial and a deep palmar branch. The deep branch supplies the muscles forming the ball of the little finger, and accompanies the ulnaris profunda artery into the palm, to supply all the interosseous muscles, the two inner lumbricales, the adductor pollicis, and the inner head of the flexor brevis pollicis. The super- ficial branch sends filaments to the palmaris brevis, to the skin on the inner side of the palm, and then divides into two digital nerves, one for the supply of the ulnar side of the little finger, the other for the contiguous sides of the little and ring fingers. This branch also communicates with the median nerve behind the superficial palmar arch. All the digital branches run along the sides of the fingers to their extremities superficial to their corresponding arteries. Anterior an- This exceedingly strong and thick ligament con- nular Ligament fines the flexor tendons of the fingers and thumb, of the Carpus. an(j fastens together the bones of the carpus. It is attached, externally, to the scaphoid and trapezium; inter- nally, to the pisiform and unciform. Its upper border is con- tinuous with the aponeurosis in front of the wrist; its lower is connected with the palmar fascia; its anterior surface receives the expanded tendon of the palmaris longus, and gives origin to most of the muscles of the ball of the thumb and little finger.