221 SPHENO-PALATINE GANGLION. naso-palatine nerve. Within its canal it sends two nasal branches which supply the membrane on the middle and lower spongy bones. The smaller- palatine descends in the same canal with the anterior, or in a smaller one of its own, and supplies the mucous membrane of the soft palate, the tonsil, and (according to Meckel) the levator palati muscle.* The external palatine may be traced in a special canal down to the soft palate, where it terminates in branches to the uvula, the palate, and tonsil. c. Internal branches.—These, three or four in number, pass through the spheno-palatine foramen to the mucous membrane of the nose. To see them clearly, the parts should have been steeped in dilute nitric acid; afterwards, when well washed, these minute filaments may be recognised beneath the mucous membrane covering the spongy bones. The upper nasal branches pass inwards, and are distributed on the two upper spongy bones, the upper and back part of the septum and the posterior ethmoidal cells. The naso-palatine traverses the roof of the nose, distributes branches to the back part of the septum narium, and then proceeds obliquely forwards, along the septum, to the foramen in- cisivum, through which it passes, and finally terminates in the palate behind the incisor teeth communicating here with /the anterior palatine nerve.. / d. Posterior branches.—The pharyngeal nerve, very small, comes off from the back of the ganglion, and, after passing through the pterygo- palatine canal with its corresponding artery, supplies the mucous membrane of the back of the pharynx and the Eustachian tube. The Vidian nerve is the principal branch. It proceeds backwards from the posterior part of the ganglion, through the Vidian canal. It then traverses the fibro- cartilage of the foramen lacerum medium, and divides into two branches. Of these two branches, one—the carotid—-joins the sympathetic plexus on the outer side of the internal carotid artery; the other, the great petrosal, enters the cranium, and runs beneath the Gasserian ganglion and the dura mater in a small groove on the anterior surface of the petrous bone : it then enters the hiatus Fallopii, and joins the facial nerve in the aquseductus Fallopii. \ * According to Longet ('Anat. et Physiol, du Systeme Nerveux,' Paris, 1842), the posterior palatine nerve supplies the levator palati and the azygos uvulae with motor power. In this view of the subject the nerve is considered to be the continua- tion or terminal branch of the motor root of the ganglion : that, namely, derived from the facial. This opinion is supported by cases in which the uvula is stated to have been drawn on one side in consequence of paralysis of the opposite facial nerve.