153 NERVES OF THE HEART. subdivisions and interlacement, an intricate network of nerves, termed, according to their position, the deep and the superficial cardiac plexus. The deep and larger cardiac plexus is situated behind the arch of the aorta in front of the bifurcation of the trachea, and immediately above the right pulmonary artery. To see it, the pericardial covering of the aorta must be carefully removed, and the vessel hooked forwards and to the left. The superficial and smaller cardiac plexus lies in the con- cavity of the arch of the aorta in front of the right pulmonary artery. It is closely connected with the deep plexus; and (gene- rally) receives the upper cardiac branch of the left sympathetic, and the lower cardiac branch from the left pneumogastric. From the cardiac plexuses, as a common centre, the nerves pass off to the heart, forming plexuses around the coronary arteries. Thus, the anterior coronary plexus (derived chiefly from the superficial cardiac) accompanies the anterior coronary artery. The posterior coronary plexus (derived chiefly from the left side of the deep cardiac) runs with the posterior coronary artery. The two plexuses communicate at the apex of the heart, and in the ventricular septum. It is not an easy matter to trace the nerves into the substance of the heart. For this purpose a horse's heart is the best, and previous maceration in water is desirable. The nerves in the substance of the heart are peculiar in this respect; that they present minute ganglia in their course, which are presumed to preside over the rhythmical contractions of the heart. Constituents Draw aside the margin of the right lung; of the Root of divide the superior vena cava above the vena each Lung. azygos, and turn down the lower part. Remove the layer of pericardium which covers the pulmonary veins, and the constituent parts of the root of the right lung will be exposed. It is composed of the pulmonary artery, the pulmonary veins, bronchus, bronchial vessels, anterior and posterior pulmonary plexuses, and some lymphatics. The following is the disposition of the large vessels forming the root of the lung. In front are the