332 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. outer part of the radius, and is inserted into the radial side of the base of the first phalanx of the thumb. Extensor This muscle arises from the posterior surface Secundi Inter- of the ulna, below the last muscle, and from the nodh Pollicis. interosseous membrane. The tendon receives fleshy fibres as low as the wrist, passes beneath the annular liga- ment, in a distinct groove on the back of the radius, crosses the tendons of the radial extensors of the wrist, proceeds over the metacarpal bone and the first phalanx of the thumb, and is in- serted into the base of the last phalanx. The tendons of the three extensors of the thumb may be easily distinguished in one's own hand. The extensor ossis metacarpi, and primi internodii pollicis, cross obliquely over the radial artery where it lies on the external lateral ligament of the carpus; the extensor secundi internodii pollicis crosses the artery just before it sinks into the palm, between the first and second metacarpal bones, and is a good guide to the vessel. The action of the three extensors of the thumb is implied by their names. Extensor This muscle arises from the posterior surface Indices or Indi- of the ulna, below the extensor secundi inter- CAT0R- nodii pollicis. The tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, in the same groove, on the back of the radius, with the tendons of the extensor digitorum communis. It then proceeds over the back of the hand to the first phalanx of the index finger, where it is united to the inner border of the com- mon extensor tendon. By the action of this muscle the index finger can be extended independently of the others. Reflect the extensor carpi radialis brevior and the anconeus from their origins, to expose the fol- lowing muscle. Supinator This muscle embraces the upper third of the Radii Brevis. radius. It arises from the external lateral liga- ment of the elbow-joint, from the annular ligament surrounding the head of the radius, from an oblique ridge on the outer surface of the ulna below the insertion of the anconeus, and by fleshy fibres from the triangular excavation below the lesser sigmoid notch of Dissection.