DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. 612 and rest upon the crura cerebri. The space between them is occupied by a thin layer of grey matter, which covers the fourth ventricle. This layer is called the valve of Vieussens, is narrow in front, and broad posteriorly, where it is connected with the cen- tral portion of the cerebellum. The third ventricle is connected with the Iter a Tertio ad Quabtum Vkn- fourth by a canal large enough to admit a triculum or probe, which runs backwards beneath the pos- Aqueduct of terior commissure and the corpora quadrigemina (p. 601). This passage, together with the third and fourth ventricles, are persistent parts of the central canal which in early fcetal life extended down the middle of the cerebro- spinal axis. It subsequently becomes much encroached upon by the large increase of grey substance, and in its floor are seen the nuclei common to the third and fourth nerves of each side. Fourth Ven- This space is situated between the cerebellum teicle. and the posterior part of the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii. It is only a dilated portion of the primordial canal alluded to in the last paragraph. To obtain a perfect view of its boundaries, a vertical section should be made, as in diagram (p. 601). It appears triangular, and its boundaries are as follows : —The front or base is formed by the medulla oblongata and pons Varolii; the upper wall by the valve of Vieussens and the aqueduct of Sylvius; the posterior wall by the inferior vermiform process of the cerebellum ; below, by the continuation of the arachnoid membrane on to the spinal cord; and, laterally, by the processus a cerebello ad cerebrum, posterior pyramids, and restiform bodies. The pia mater is prolonged for a short distance into the lower part of the cavity, and forms the choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle* The anterior wall of the fourth ventricle is lozenge-shaped, and on it are the following objects, which should be separately * Tiedernann proposed to call the fourth ventricle the first: because in the foetus, it is formed sooner than any of the others; because it exists in all vertebrated animals, whereas the lateral ventricles are absent in all osseous fishes; and because the veutricle of the septum lucidum is absent in all fishes, in reptiles, and in birds.