DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. 415 central ridge, named the raphe, extends from the anus, along the perineum, scrotum, and under surface of the penis. Between the tuberosities of the ischia and the anus are two depressions, one on each side, marking the ischio-rectal fotssjct^ which are found imme- diately beneath the skin, filled with more or less fat. In the lateral operation of lithotomy, the incision should commence at a point midway between the anus and the posterior fold of the scrotum, close to the left side of the raphe; it should be carried downwards and outwards, to a point midway between the tuber ischii and the anus. In the bilateral operation, the incision is semi-lunar, the horns being made on either side between the tuber ischii and the anus, equidistant from these points respectively ; while the centre of the incision runs about three-quarters of an inch above the anus. At the anus the skin becomes finer and more Anal Glands, . . delicate, forming a gradual transition towards mucous membrane: during life it is drawn into wrinkles by the permanent contraction of the cutaneous sphincter. Moreover, the skin at the margin of the anus is provided with numerous minute glands,* which secrete an unctuous substance to facilitate the passage of the faeces. When this secretion becomes defective or vitiated, the anal cutaneous folds are apt to become excoriated, chapped, or fissured ; and then defalcation becomes very painful. The skin should be reflected, by making an Dissection. ... , ., , , . incision along the raphe, round the margin of the anus to the coccyx. Two others must be made on each side at right angles to the first, the one at the upper, and the other at the lower end of it. The skin of the perineum must then be reflected Subcutaneous outwards. In reflecting the skin, notice the charac- TlssxrE- ters of the subcutaneous structure.f Its characters * These glands are the analogues of the anal glands in some animals, e.g. the dog and the beaver. They are found not only about the anus, but also in the subcutaneous tissue of the perineum, a fact for the demonstration of which we are indebted to the late Professor Quekett. They are large enough to be seen with the naked eye. t The probable thickness of this subcutaneous tissue is a point which ought to be determined by the lithotomist in making his first incision. Its great thickness in sonio cases explains the depth to which the surgeon has to cut in letting out pus from the ischio-rectal fossa.