583 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. Peculiarities Besides the circle of Willis, there are other of the Cerebral peculiarities relating to the circulation of the Circulation. blood in the brain : namely, the length and tor- tuosity of the four great arteries as they enter the skull; their passage through tortuous bony canals ; the spreading of their rami- fications in a very delicate membrane, the pia mater, before they enter the substance of the brain ; the minuteness of the capillaries, and the extreme thinness of their walls ; the formation of the venous sinuses (p. 8), which do not accompany the arteries; the chordae Willisii in the superior longitudinal sinus; the absence of valves in the sinuses ; and the confluence of no less than six sinuses, forming the torcular Herophyli, at the internal occipital protuberance. General Di- The mass of nervous substance contained within vision of the the cranium, comprised under the common term Brain. brain (encephalon), is divided into four parts : the cerebrum, which occupies the whole of the upper part of the cranial cavity ; the cerebellum, or smaller brain, which occupies the space below the tentorium cerebelli; the pons Varolii, or the quadrilateral mass of white fibres which rests upon the basilar process of the occipital bone ; and the medulla oblongata, situated below the pons, and continuous with the spinal cord (fig. 142). The weight of the entire encephalon bears a proportionate re- lation to the intellectual power. The result of observations shows that it averages in males about 50 ounces, and in females about 44 ounces. Medulla Ob- This term is applied to that part of the cerebro- longata. spinal axis which is placed below the pons Varolii, and is continuous with the spinal cord on a level with the upper border of the atlas. It is slightly pyramidal in shape, with the broad part above. It lies on the basilar groove of the occipital bone, and descends obliquely backwards through the foramen magnum. Its posterior surface is. received into the fossa (vallecula ) between the hemispheres of the cerebellum. . It is-about an inch and a quarter in length, and nearly an inch thick, at its broadest part. In front and behind, the medulla is marked by a median