DISSECTION OP THE UPPER ARM. 271 converge and arejinserted into the posterior border of the scapula m the following manner: the first two digitations are attached into the upper angle of the scapular; the third and fourth digita- tions along nearly the whole length of the posterior border ; the remainder are inserted into the inferior angle. Its action is to draw the scapula forwards; but of this more hereafter. It is sup- plied by the following nerve, which is seen on its outer surface. This nerve supplies the serratus magnus only. Posterior tho- , 1 1 T • ° J rac'ic or™ Ixter- It comes from the fifth and sixth cervical nerves; nal respiratory and, after passing through the scalenus medius, Nerve of Beix. mng kenmci the axillary vessels, along the outer surface of the serratus magnus, each digitation receiving a sepa- rate filament.* DISSECTION OF THE UPPER ARM. Continue the incision down the inner side of Dissection the arm as far as two inches below the elbow. Eeflect the skin, and trace out the cutaneous nerves, and the numerous veins in front of the elbow. Cutaneous On the inner side of the arm are the intercosto- Nerves. humeral, the internal cutaneous branch of the musculo-spiral, the internal cutaneous and the lesser internal cutaneous (nerve of Wrisberg) nerves; on the outer side are the cutaneous branches of the circumflex, the external cutaneous branches of the musculo-spiral, and lower down is the musculo- cutaneous nerve. The filaments of the intercosto-humeral nerves (p. 262) descend along the inner and posterior part of the arm as far as the olecranon. The branches of the internal cutaneous nerve perforate the fascia about the middle of the arm, and divide into an anterior and a posterior branch; the anterior passes down in front of the arm (as a rule beneath the median basilic vein), and supplies the skin as far as the wrist; the ( * It maybe asked why this nerve is called the external respiratory. It was so - named by Sir C. Bell, who considered the serratus magnus as the external respiratory ^ muscle, co-operating with the diaphragm or internal respiratory muscle.