MUSCLES OP THE FACE. 83 spheric pressure. In dyspnoea, and in certain mental emotions, they contract with great energy. Levator Labu This arises from the nasal process of the su- superioms perior maxillary bone near its orbital margin, and Al^que Nasi. passing downwards divides into two portions : au inner, inserted into the side of the ala of the nose; an outer, into the upper lip, where its fibres blend with the orbicularis oris and levator labii superioris. It acts chiefly in expressing the smile of derision. Its habitual use occasions the deep furrow which, in most faces, runs from the ala of the nose towards the corner of the mouth. Levator Labii This arises from the lower margin of the orbit, superioris i.e. from the superior maxilla and malar bone, proprius. above the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the upper lip, where its fibres blend with the orbicularis oris. It is nearly an inch in breadth at its origin, which covers the infra-orbital vessels and nerves, and is itself overlapped by the orbicularis palpebrarum. Levator This muscle, which is covered by the levator Anguli Oris. labii superioris, arises from the canine fossa of the superior maxilla, below the infra-orbital foramen, and is inserted into the angle of the mouth, superficial to the buccinator, its fibres blending with those of the the orbicularis oris, the zygomatici, and the depressor anguli oris. The buccinator arises from the outer surface of Buccinator the alveolar borders of the upper and lower jaws, corresponding to the molar teeth, and from the pterygo-maxillary ligament. The fibres pass forwards and are inserted into the angle of the mouth and the muscular structure of the lips; the central fibres decussate, while the upper fibres pass to the upper lip, and the lower fibres pass to the lower lip. The muscle is covered on its inner aspect by the mucous membrane of the cheek, and on its outer by a thin fascia which passes backwards, and is continuous with that covering the pharynx. The buccinator is the principal muscle of the cheek. It forms with the superior constrictor of the pharynx a continuous muscular wall for the side of the mouth and pharynx. The bond of connec- G 2