425 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. part of the urethra about three inches above the end of the bulb, and dissect it from the corpus cavernosum. Thus, the upper fibres of the constrictor will be exposed ; to see the lower, it is only necessary to raise the bulb. The most perfect view, however, of the muscle is obtained by making a transverse section through the rami of the pubes, so as to get at the muscle from above, as shown in fig. 93. Compressor or This muscle consists of transverse fibres which Constrictor" " surround and support the urethra in its passage Xj RETHRiE. beneath the pubic arch. It arises from the ramus of the pubes on either side; from thence its fibres pass, some above, some below the urethra, along the whole length of its membranous part. It forms a complete muscular covering for the urethra between the prostate and the bulb. It is chiefly through its agency that we retain the urine. This muscle is the chief cause of spasmodic stricture of the urethra.* Cowpers These small glands are situated, one on either Glands. side, immediately behind the bulb between the two layers of the triangular ligament, in the substance of the compressor urethrae. Their size is about that of a pea, but it varies in different individuals. They are compound racemose glands, consisting of several lobules firmly connected together by cellular and some muscular tissue. From each a slender duct runs forwards, and, after a course of about one inch, opens obliquely into the floor of the bulbous part of the urethra (fig. 90). They furnish a secretion accessory to generation. Pudic Artery Tlie jmdic artery is a branch of the anterior and its division of the internal iliac. It leaves the pelvis Branches, through the great ischiatic notch, above the ischiatic artery, winds round the spine of the ischium, re-enters the pelvis through the lesser ischiatic notch, and then runs along the inner side of the tuber ischii, between the layers of the obturator fascia, up towards the pubic arch. About an inch and a half above the * The compressor urethrae was first accurately described and delineated by Santo- rini (septemdec. tabulae), and afterwards by Miiller in his monograph (Ueber die organ, Nerv. der mannlich. Greschlechtsorgane).