PROSTATE GLAND. 450 Its nerves are derived from the hypogastric and sacral plexuses ; the former is chiefly distributed to the top, the latter to the neck and the bottom of the bladder. Having already examined the form, size, and Prostate relations of the prostate (p. 438), we have now to make out its lobes. There are two lateral lobes, and a third or middle lobe.* The middle one is pyriform in shape, unites the lateral lobes, and is situated between them and the urethra. In health, it does not appear like a separate lobe; but when abnor- mally enlarged, it projects toward the cavity of the bladder, and acts like a bar at the mouth of the urethra. Make a longitudinal incision through the upper surface of the prostate to expose the urethra. This canal runs rather nearer to its upper than its lower surface, and is not of the same calibre throughout.f It forms a sinus in the interior of the prostate, described by anatomists as the sinus of the prostate. Along the floor of the sinus is a longitudinal ridge, about three-quarters of an inch in length, broad and elevated behind, but gradually fading in front. This is called the crest of the urethra, and the most prominent part of it is named the veru montanum, or caput gallinaginis, from its supposed resemblance to the head of a wood- cock. On each side of this prominence the seminal ducts open, (p. 447). Immediately in front of the caput gallinaginis, in the middle line, is a small opening which will admit a probe. It leads back- wards into a little cul-de-sac or pouch in the substance of the prostate. This pouch is described as the analogue of the uterus, and called the utriculus or sinus pocularis. It is of a pyriform * Attention was first attracted to this middle lobe, in England, by Sir Everard Home, whose account of it is published in the 'Philos. Trans.' for 1806. The pre- paration prepared by Sir Everard in illustration is preserved in the Museum of the Eoyal College of Surgeons in London, Physiol. Series, No. 2583 A. But the anatomy and effect of the enlargement of this part of the prostate gland is not a discovery of modern times. It was accurately described by Santorini in 1739, and subsequently by Camper, and is alluded to by Morgagni in the third book of his Epistles. t This part of the urethra is about an inch and a quarter long, and about four lines in diameter.