367 PARTS CONCERNED IN INGUINAL HERNIA. between the fascia transversalis and the peritoneum, forms a gentle curve on the inner side of the internal abdominal ring, and conse- quently on the inner side of the spermatic cord, and then enters the rectus muscle below the edge of the sheath. The artery runs in the substance of the rectus parallel with the linea alba, and is accompanied by two veins, of which the larger is on its inner side. They terminate by a single trunk in the iliac vein. Branches of The pubic is the most important branch. It niE Deep £p> runs inwards, behind the crural arch, towards the jrasteic. pubes, behind which it anastomoses with the pubic branch of the obturator. Sometimes the obturator artery is absent, in which case the pubic branch of the epigastric enlarges and takes the place of the absent vessel. It derives its chief practical in- terest from the fact that it is liable to be wounded in dividing the stricture in femoral hernia.* But its size varies in different sub- jects, and is sometimes so small as to escape observation. The second branch is the cremasteric. It supplies the coverings of the cord, but chiefly the cremaster muscle. After giving off other unnamed muscular branches the main trunk terminates in the rectus by inosculations with the internal mammary. *^Deep Cihcum- The deep circumflexa ilii artery is a branch of flexa Ilii.^ the external iliac, just above the crural arch; it runs upwards and outwards parallel with Poupart's ligament, and at the middle of the crest of the ilium pierces the transversalis muscle, and, running in the same direction, lies between the transversalis and internal oblique. It anastomoses with thp ilin- lumbar artery.-and sends small muscular branches, which run upwards, and communicate with the epigastric and the lumbar arteries. The circumflex iliac vein crosses the external iliac artery and opens into the external iliac vein. Such is an outline of the anatomy of the parts concerned in * There is a preparation (No. 83, Ser. 17) in the Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital quite to the point. The patient had profuse haemorrhage, which com- menced five hours after the operation. He died from peritonitis.