STRUCTURE OF THE EYELIDS. 79 tarsal cartilage and the fibres of the orbicularis palpebrarum. They are supplied with blood by the palpebral branches of the ophthalmic artery which run parallel and close to the free borders of the lids beneath the orbicular muscle. Structure of The eyelids are composed of different tissues, ar- the eyelids. ranged in successive strata one beneath the other. They are—1. The skin : 2. The orbicularis palpebrarum : 3. The tarsal cartilage, and the palpebral ligament which extends from the margin of the orbit to the outer surface of the cartilage : 4. The expanded tendon of the levator palpebras (in the upper lid only): 5. Meibomian glands: 6. Mucous membrane. These structures are severally connected by areolar tissue, which never contains fat. Such, in outline, is the structure of the eyelids. Their use is best described by Socrates, who, in answer to the question whether animals were made by chance or design, replies : 6 Think you not that it looks like the work of forethought, because the sight is delicate, to guard it with eyelids as with shutters, which open when we want to see, and shut during sleep; and, that even winds may not hurt them, to make eyelashes in the lids for a sieve; and to furnish the parts over the eyes with eyebrows, as witli eaves, so that even the sweat from off the head may do them no mischief? ' * The skin of the eyelids is remarkably smooth and delicate. It is abundantly supplied with sensory nerves by branches of the fifth pair—namely, by the supra-orbital, supra-trochlear, infra- trochlear, lachrymal, and infra-orbital nerves. The orbicularis palpebrarum has been already described (p. 76). It is supplied with nerves by the facial. The levator palpebrce arises from the back of the orbit, gradually becomes broader, and terminates in a thin aponeurosis, which * Xenophon's Memorabilia, b. 1. c. iv. § 6 : ov oo/ce? aoi Kai t68z Trpovoias tpyov eoi/ce- vcu, to, e7T€i aadev^s /j.4v iariv r) 6\pis, fiAecpdpois avrrjV Qvpacrai, a, orav /j.(v avrfj y_or,c6ai ti Se'r?, avaireTavvvTai, iv 8e to} virvcj) avyKAeierai; ws 3' av /rrjSe avef.(.oi ^XanrwaLV, rjOfibv f$Xs<pap'idas i(jL<pvaai- 6(ppvai tc aTTO'yzLcrw<rai to. virlp twv ofx/xdrcnv, cos ,1*778' 0 t/c rrjs ntcpaXrjs idpus KaKOvpyfj,