NERVES OF THE FACE. 90 The lymphatic glands about the parotid deserve notice, since they are liable to become enlarged, and simulate disease of the parotid itself. A lymphatic gland lies close to the root of the zygoma, in front of the cartilage of the ear; this gland is some- times affected in disease of the external tunics of the eye ; e.g. in purulent ophthalmia : also in affections of the scalp. The parotid belongs to the compound racemose form of glands. Tracing its main duct into the substance of the gland, we find that it divides into smaller ones, which again subdivide into the small ra- muscules which terminate in csecal dilatations or saccules. Each saccule —about y^Vo" °f an mcn m diameter—is filled with flattened, spheroidal epithelium, inclosing a nucleus, some of them having an outstanding process from the base of the cell. The saccule has a more or less de- veloped basement membrane upon which the flattened cells rest. An aggregation of these saccules forms a small lobule, from which a small excretory duct proceeds • the lobules are united by intervening connective tissue, which is a continuation inwards of the dense fascia covering the gland. The small ramuscules have only a basement membrane with flattened cells, which rapidly change in the smaller ducts to a columnar form, while in the larger ducts the epithelium assumes the squamous variety. To display the plexus of nerves (pes anserinus), formed by the branches of the facial in the parotid gland, find one of the larger branches, say One of the malar, on the face, and trace this into the substance of the gland, as a clue to the others. Portio dura. This is one of the divisions of the seventh pair or Facial Nerve, of cranial nerves, and is the motor nerve of the face. It supplies all the muscles of expression, except those which move the eyes. It arises immediately below the pons Varolii, from the lateral tract of the medulla oblongata. The nerve enters the meatus auditorius internus, lying upon the auditory nerve, traverses a tortuous bony canal (aqueductus Fallopii) in the the gland is enlarged by disease ? John Bell, however, relates a case in which he was induced to attempt the extirpation of a diseased parotid (' Principles of Surgery,' vol. iii. p. 262). Other surgeons, too, of more modern date, have attempted the same thing. It is not unlikely that they have mistaken a tumour in the substance of the parotid for disease of the parotid itself.