PTERYGO-MAXILLARY REGION. 99 of the tuberosities of the palate and superior maxillary bones. It is inserted into the neck of the jaw, and slightly into the border of the inter-articular fibro-cartilage of the jaw. The advantage of the insertion of some of its fibres into the inter-articular cartilage is, that the cartilage follows the condyle in all its movements. When the jaw is dislocated, it is chiefly by the action of this muscle, which draws the condyle forwards into the zygomatic fossa; the inter-articular cartilage being dislocated with the condyle. Internal This muscle arises from the inner surface of the Pterygoid. external pterygoid plate of the sphenoid bone, and the tuberosity of the palate bone. It is inserted into the inner side of the angle of the jaw, as high as the dental foramen. Notice particularly the direction of the fibres of the pterygoid muscles. The fibres of the external run horizontally outwards and backwards from their origin; the fibres of the internal run downwards, backwards and outwards from their origin. The internal pterygoid has tendinous septa like the masseter. Both the pterygoids get their nerves from the motor division of the inferior maxillary. The pterygoid muscles produce the lateral movements of the jaw essential to the mastication of the food. Consequently they are enormously developed in all ruminants, and comparatively feebly in carnivorous animals. DigsEc ^ Saw through the neck of the jaw, disarticulate the condyle with its fibro-cartilage from the glenoid cavity, and turn it forwards with the external pterygoid, so that the condyle can be replaced if desirable. A little dissec- tion will bring into view the internal lateral ligament, and the internal maxillary artery. Internal Max- This is the larger of the two terminal branches illary Artery. mto which the external carotid divides opposite the neck of the jaw. It passes horizontally forwards between the neck of the jaw and the internal lateral ligament, then runs tortuously, in some cases above, in others beneath the external pterygoid, enters the spheno-m axillary fossa between the two heads of the H 2