NERVES OF THE UPPER ARM. 282 artery. In their course they are connected at intervals by trans- verse branches either in front of, or behind the artery. Near the subscapularis, the vena comes externa crosses obliquely in front of the axillary artery to join the vena comes interna, which then takes the name of axillary. Now trace the great nerves of the upper arm, which proceed from the brachial plexus near the tendon of the subscapularis : namely, the median, the musculo-cutaneous, the ulnar, and the musculo-spiral or radial. n The median nerve arises by two roots, which converge in front of the axillary artery (p. 264). The external root is derived from a trunk in common with the musculo-cutaneous; the internal from a trunk in common with the ulnar and internal cutaneous. In its course down the arm, the nerve is situated at first on the outer side of the brachial artery, between it and the coraco-brachialis ; about the middle of the arm the nerve crosses obliquely over (in some cases under) the vessel, so that at the bend of the elbow it is found on the inner side of the artery, lying upon the brachialis anticus, and covered by the semilunar fascia from the biceps.* * I have observed the following varieties relating to the median nerve, and its course in regard to the artery. a. The roots may be increased in number by one on either side of the artery ; or the internal root may be deficient. b. They may vary in their position with regard to the artery; both may be situa- ted behind the vessel, or one behind, and the other in front of it. c. The nerve, formed in the usual manner, may be joined lower down by a large branch from the external cutaneous; such a case presents a junction of two large nerves in front of the brachial artery, in the middle of the arm. d. The nerve in many cases crosses under, instead of over the artery. e. The nerve sometimes runs parallel and external to the artery ; or it may run parallel to, and in front of, the artery. In one hundred arms the relative position of the nerve to the artery in its course down the arm was as follows:— In 72, the nerve took the ordinary course. „ 20, the nerve crossed obliquely under the artery. ,, 5, the nerve ran parallel and superficial to the artery. ,. 3, the nerve ran parallel and external to the artery. | These varieties of the median nerve are of practical importance, for this reason: