POPLITEAL REGION. 541 1, two or more considerable branches to the gluteus niaximus; 2, a coccygeal branch, which runs through the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, then ramifies in the gluteus maximus, and on the back of the coccyx; 3, the comes nervi ischiatici; 4, branches to the several external rotator muscles; lastly, branches which supply the upper part of the hamstring muscles; and others which inosculate with the internal circumflex and obturator arteries (p. 522). Pudic Artery The course of this artery and nerve has been and Nerve, fully described (p. 425). Observe now that they pass over the spine of the ischium, accompanied by the nerve to the obturator internus, and that in a thin subject it is possible to com- press the artery against the spine. The rule for finding it is this : rotate the foot inwards, and draw a line from the top of the great trochanter to the base of the coccyx ; the junction of the inner with the outer two-thirds gives the situation of the artery.* Popliteal ^ ^s advisable to examine the popliteal space Space. Its at this stage of the dissection, in order that the Boundaries. various parts may be carefully made out with as little disturbance as possible of their mutual relations. A vertical incision must be made along the middle of the ham, extending from six inches above, to three inches below the knee: transverse incisions should be made at each extremity of the vertical, so that the skin may be conveniently reflected. In doing so, care must be taken to preserve the cutaneous branch of the lesser ischiatic nerve, which descends over the space to the back of the leg. The muscular fascia covering the space is very strong, and strengthened by numerous transverse fibres. It is pierced by the posterior saphena vein, which passes in to join the popliteal vein. The fascia having been reflected, the muscles and tendons con- stituting the boundaries of the popliteal space are to be cleaned. The space is formed, above, by the divergence of the hamstring muscles to reach their respective insertions; below, by the con- * Mr. Travers succeeded in arresting haemorrhage from a sloughing ulcer of the glans penis by pressing the pudic artery with a cork against the spine of the ischium.