22 CERVICAL FASCIA. beneath; for instance, in front of the trachea, in the fossa above the clavicle, and below the angle of the jaw. It not only covers the soft parts of the neck collectively, but, by its inflections, forms separate sheaths for the muscles, vessels, and glands. It isolates them, and keeps them in their proper relative position. A length- ened description of its numerous layers would be not only extremely tedious, but unintelligible, without considerable knowledge of the anatomy of the neck. We propose, therefore, to give only a general outline of the fascia, and of its principal layers, com- mencing from behind. Tracing it from behind, we find that the cervical fascia (some- times called deep cervical or muscular fascia of the neck) is attached to the ligamentum nuchas and to the spinous and trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae. From these attachments it passes forwards over the posterior triangle of the neck to the posterior border of the sterno-mastoid, where it splits into two layers, which invest that muscle and reunite at its anterior border. It then passes towards the mesial line, where it becomes continuous with the corresponding fascia of the opposite side. The layer which lies in front of the sterno-mastoid is attached above to the base of the inferior maxilla, and passes over the parotid gland, to the zygoma, to the mastoid process, and the superior curved line of the occipital bone. Traced downwards, we find it attached to the clavicle and to the upper border of the sternum. In the middle line it is closely connected to the hyoid bone, and below the thyroid body divides into two layers, one being attached to the front of the upper border of the sternum, the other to the back of the upper border of the same bone. Between these layers there is a well- marked interval, containing more or less fat, and one or two small lymphatic glands. This layer forms investing sheaths for the depressor muscles of the os hyoides and larynx. The other layer—viz., that which passes beneath the sterno- mastoid—forms the common sheath for the carotid artery, internal jugular vein, and the pneumogastric nerve, which lie behind this muscle ; it is continued behind the pharynx (constituting the prevertebral fascia) to join the fascia of the opposite side.