290 RADIAL ARTERY. Having finished the superficial muscles on the inner side of the forearm, notice one of those on the outer side, named supinator radii longus, before tracing- the vessels and nerves of the forearm. Supinator This muscle forms the external boundary of the Eadh Longus. triangular space at the bend of the elbow. It arises from the upper two-thirds of the external condyloid ridge of the humerus, commencing a little below the insertion of the deltoid, and from the external intermuscular septum. The mus- cular fibres terminate about the middle of the forearm in a flat tendon, which is inserted into the outer side of the base of the styloid process of the radius. The inner border of the muscle is the guide to the radial artery. It supinates the hand, but acts much more powerfully as a flexor of the forearm. It is supplied by the musculo-spiral nerve. EadialA tebt ^e ra(^al ar^ery? the smaller division of the brachial, runs down the radial side of the forearm to the wrist, where it turns over the external lateral ligament of the carpus, beneath the extensor tendons of the thumb, and sinks into the angle between the first and second metacarpal bones to form the deep palmar arch. Thus, its course corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the bend of the elbow, to the front of the styloid process of the radius. In the upper third of the forearm, the artery lies deep between the pronator teres on the inner and the supinator longus on the outer side; the fleshy border of the latter overlaps it in muscular subjects. In the lower two-thirds of the forearm the artery is more superficial, and is placed between the tendons of the supi- nator longus on the outer and the flexor carpi radialis on the inner side. In its course, it lies successively on the following :—first, upon the tendon of the bicejDS^; secondly, upon the supinator radii brevis; thirdly, upon the insertion of the pronator teres; fourthly, upon the radial origin of the flexor sublimis; fifthly, upon the flexor longus pollicis; sixthly, upon the pronator quadratus and the lower end of the radius. The artery then crosses the wrist joint, lying upon the external lateral ligament; next, it lies upon the,