529 ANTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. on a quill. The tendon passes through the same pulley with the long extensor of the toes, and, expanding considerably, is inserted into the tarsal end of the metatarsal bone of the little toe. It is supplied by a branch of the anterior tibial nerve. The peroneus tertius and the tibialis anticus are important muscles in progression. They raise the toes and foot from the ground. Those who have lost the use of these muscles are obliged to drag the foot along the ground, or to swing the entire limb outwards, in walking. Extensor This muscle lies partly concealed between the Proprius tibialis anticus and the extensor longus digitorum. Pollicis. j£ arises from rather more than the middle third of the inner surface of the fibula, and from the interosseous mem- brane. The fibres terminate in a penDiform manner on the tendon, which runs over the ankle, between the tendons of the tibialis anticus and the extensor communis digitorum, along the top of the foot, to the great toe, where it is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. It has a special pulley beneath the annular ligament, lined by a synovial membrane, which accompanies it as far as the metatarsal bone of the great toe. It is supplied by the anterior tibial, a branch of the peroneal nerve. Now examine the course, relations, and branches of the anterior tibial artery. Since it lies deeply between the muscles, it is neces- sary to separate them from each other : this is easily done by proceeding from the ankle towards the knee. Course and The anterior tibial artery is one of the two Relations of the branches into which the popliteal divides at the Anterior Tibial lower border of the popliteus. It comes at first horizontally forward about 1^ inches below the head of the fibula, above the interosseous membrane, and then descends, lying in rather more than the first half of its course upon the interosseous membrane, afterwards along the front of the tibia. It runs beneath the annular ligament over the front of the ankle, where it takes the name of the dorsal artery of the foot. Thus, a line drawn from the head of the fibula to the interval between the first and second metatarsal bones would nearly indicate its M M