MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 230 spinous processes of the dorsal and cervical vertebrae, and is for convenience divided into the semispinalis dor si and semispinalis colli. a. The semispinalis dorsi arises from the transverse processes of the dorsal vertebras, from the sixth to the tenth, and is inserted into the spines of the four upper dorsal and the two or three lower cervical vertebrae. b. The semisp inalis colli lies beneath the complexus and arises from the transverse processes of the five or six upper dorsal ver- tebrae, and the articular processes of the four lower cervical, and is ins-erted into the spines of the axis and the three or four succeeding vertebrae, that into the axis being the most fleshy fasciculus. Now reflect part of the semispinalis dorsi in order to expose the multifidus spina?. This may be considered a part of the preceding muscle, since its fixed points and the direction of its fibres are the same. It consists of a series of little muscles which extend between the spines and transverse processes of the vertebrae from the sacrum to the second cervical vertebra. Those in the lumbar region are the largest. They arise by tendinous slips from the transverse processes in the sacral and dorsal region, and from the articular processes in the lumbar and cervical region. They all ascend obliquely, and are inserted into the spines and laminae of all the vertebrae excepting the atlas. It should be observed that their fibres are not of uniform length; some extend only from vertebra to vertebra, while others extend between one, two, or even three vertebrae. Beneath the multifidus spinae, in the dorsal region of the spine only, are eleven flat muscles, called rotatores spinas. They arise from the upper part of the transverse processes, and are inserted into the lower border of the laminae of the vertebra above. These muscles form but a part of the multifidus spinae. The action of the preceding muscles is, not only to assist in maintaining the trunk erect, but to incline and rotate the spine to one or the other side. They are all supplied by the posterior branches of the spinal nerves.