DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. 330 The muscle is not only a general extensor of the fingers, but can extend some of the phalanges independently of the rest: e.g. it can extend the first phalanges while the second and third are flexed ; or it can extend the second and third. phalanges during flexion of the first. Extensor This long slender muscle, situated on the inner Minimi Digiti or side of the common extensor, arises from the Auricularis. common tendon from the external condyle, and from the septa between it and the contiguous muscles. Its slender tendon runs separately beneath the annular ligament immediately behind the joint between the radius and ulna, in a special sheath lined by synovial membrane. At the first joint of the little finger, the tendon is joined by that of the common extensor, and both expand upon the first and second phalanges, terminating in the same manner as the extensor tendons of the other fingers. Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous. Extensor This muscle arises from the common tendon Carpi Ulnaris. from the external condyle, from the septum be- tween it and the extensor minimi digiti, and from the aponeurosis of the forearm. The fibres terminate upon a strong broad tendon, which traverses a distinct groove on the back of the ulna, close to the styloid process, and is inserted into the posterior aspect of the carpal end of the metacarpal bone of the little finger. Below the styloid process of the ulna, the tendon passes beneath the posterior annular ligament, over the back of the wrist, and is confined in a very strong fibrous canal, which is attached to the back of the cuneiform, pisiform, and unciform bones, and is lined by a continu- ation from the synovial membrane in the groove of the ulna. The action of this muscle is to extend the hand, and incline it towards the ulnar side. It is supplied by the posterior interosseous nerve. In pronation of the forearm, the lower end of the ulna projects between the tendons of the extensor carpi ulnaris and the extensor minimi digiti. A subcutaneous bursa is sometimes found above the bone in this situation. This small triangular muscle is situated at the Anconeus. « i -r • j outer and back part of the elbow. It is covered