156 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. the auriculo-ventricular opening*. The right half of the heart propels venous blood to the lungs, and is called the pulmonary, the left propels arterial blood from the lungs throughout the body, and is called the systemic. These two hearts are not placed apart, because important advantages result from their union. By being enclosed in a single bag they occupy less room in the chest; and the action of their corresponding cavities being precisely synchronous, their fibres, mutually intermixing, contribute to their mutual support. The cavities of the heart should now be examined in the order in which the blood circulates through them. E Au iclb This *S s^uated at the right side of the base of the heart, and forms a quadrangular cavity, the atrium or sinus venosus, between the two venae cavse, from which it receives the blood. From its front, a small pouch projects towards the left, and overlaps the root of the aorta; this part is termed the 'appendix' of the auricle, and resembles a dog's ear in shape. To see the interior, make a horizontal incision through the anterior wall from the apex of the appendix, transversely across the cavity: from this make another upwards at right angles into the superior vena cava. The interior is lined by a polished mem- brane called the 4 endocardium,'' and is everywhere smooth except in the appendix, where the muscular fibres are collected into bundles, called, from their resemblance to the teeth of a comb, 6 musculi pectinate They radiate from the auricle to the edge of the auriculo-ventricular opening. Examine carefully the openings of the two vense cava?: they are not directly opposite to each other; the superior is situated on a plane rather in front and a little to the left of the inferior, that the streams of blood may not meet. The inferior cava, after passing through the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, makes a slight curve to the left before it opens into the auricle, that the stream of its blood may be directed towards the auriculo-ventricular opening. The orifice of each vena cava is nearly circular, and surrounded by circular muscular fibres continuous with those of the auricle.