S ERR AT US MAGNUS. 316 name; c. articular arteries to the shoulder joint; and, lastly, d. the infra-spinous branch, which anastomoses with the dorsalis scapulae. The supra-scapular vein terminates either in the subclavian or in the external jugular. The supra-scapular nerve, a branch of the fifth, and some- times the sixth, cervical, runs with the corresponding artery, and after passing through the supra-scapular notch, is distributed to the supra-spinatus and infra-spinatus. In the supra-spinous fossa, this nerve sends a small branch to the shoulder-joint. Posterior This artery is one of the divisions of the trans- Scapular versalis colli, but comes very frequently from the Artery. subclavian in the third part of its coarse (p. 67). It runs across the lower part of the neck, above, or between the nerves of the brachial plexus, towards the posterior superior angle of the scapula. Here it pursues its course along the posterior border of the scapula beneath the levator anguli scapulae and the rhomboidei, anastomosing with branches of the supra-scapular and sub-scapular arteries. The corresponding vein joins the external jugular or the subclavian. Divide the rhomboid muscles near their inser- tion, and trace the artery to the inferior angle of the scapula, where it terminates in the rhomboidei, serratus magnus, and latissimus dorsi. Numerous muscular branches arise from the posterior scapular. The superficialis colli (the other division of the transversalis colli) is given off near the upper angle of the scapula for the supply of the trapezius. Divide and reflect the latissimus dorsi below the inferior angle of the scapula, and draw the scapula forcibly outwards, to have a more perfect view of the extent of the serratus magnus, than was seen in the axilla. The abundance of connective tissue in this situation is necessary for the play of the scapula on the chest. Serratus This broad flat muscle intervenes between the Magnus. scapula and the ribs. It arises by nine fleshy digitations from the eight upper ribs, each rib giving origin to one, and the second to two. The four lower digitations correspond with