290 ANTERIOR INTEROSSEOUS ARTERY. proceeds beneath the annular ligament to the base of the last phalanx of the thumb. Its nerve comes from the interosseous branch of the median. Pronator This square muscle arises from the lower fourth Quadratus. of the ulna; its fibres pass some transversely, some obliquely outwards, and are inserted into the lower fourth of the radius. It pronates the radius on the ulna. Its nerve proceeds from the interosseous branch of the median. Anterior inter- Nearly on a level with the insertion of the osseous Artery. biceps, the ulnar artery gives off from its outer side the common interosseous, which runs backwards for about half an inch, and divides into the anterior and posterior inter- osseous. The anterior interosseous artery runs close to the interosseous membrane, lying between the flexor profundus digitorum and flexor longus pollicis. At the upper edge of the pronator quadratus it divides into two branches ; one of which, the smaller, passes be- hind the muscle, supplies it and the front of the carpal bones, communicating with the anterior carpal arteries from the radial and ulnar; the other, the more important, perforates the inter- osseous membrane, and helps to supply the muscles on the back of the forearm. A branch, the arteria comes nervi mediani, proceeds from the anterior interosseous. It lies in close contact with the nerve, sometimes in its very centre : though usually of small size, it may be as large as the ulnar artery itself, and, in such cases, it passes under the annular ligament with the nerve to join the palmar arch. This is interesting, because it helps to explain the recurrence of haemorrhage from a wound in the palm even after the radial and ulnar arteries have been tied. The anterior interosseous artery gives off branches to the muscles on either side, and the nutrient arteries, which enter the radius and ulna, from below upwards, near the centre of the forearm, to supply the medullary membrane. Anterior m- This nerve is a branch of the median; it gene- terosseous rally runs close to the radial side of the artery, Nerve' and supplies the flexor longus pollicis, half the flexor profundus digitorum, and the pronator quadratus.