BRANCHES OF THE ABDOMINAL AORTA. 403 Spermatic The spermatic arteries, two in number, arise Arteries and from the front of the aorta, a little below the Veins- renal. Each runs down upon the psoas, crossing- over the ureter and over the front of the external iliac artery im- mediately above the crural arch. Each then passes through the internal abdominal ring and inguinal canal, with the other con- stituents of the spermatic cord to the testicle. Each artery is accompanied by two very tortuous veins, which unite before they empty themselves, on the right side into the vena cava, on the left, into the renal vein. In the female, the ovarian arteries do not leave the abdomen, but pass, between the layers of the broad ligaments, to the ovaries. Lumbar There are five of these arteries on either side: Arteries and four arise from the aorta, the fifth comes from the Branches. arteria sacra media. They are analogous to the intercostal arteries on a small scale. They proceed outwards over the bodies of the vertebra?, beneath the arch formed by the psoas muscle, towards the intervertebral foramina, and then, like the intercostals, divide into dorsal and abdominal branches. The two upper lumbar arteries pass beneath the crura of the diaphragm, those on the right side being also behind the vena cava. The dorsal branches pass between the transverse processes of the vertebra?, accompanied by the posterior branches of the cor- responding nerves, and are of a size proportionate to the large development of the muscles of the back which they supply. They also send spinal branches, which enter the spinal canal through the intervertebral foramina; some of these are distributed to the anterior part of the cauda equina, and others to the bodies of the lumbar vertebra?, forming a series of arches behind them. The abdominal branches all run outwards behind the quadra- tus lumborum, except the last, which usually runs in front. After supplying the quadratus and psoas, they pass forwards between the abdominal muscles and supply the walls of the abdomen.* They * Just as the thoracic intercostals, by communicating with the internal mammary, form an arterial ring round the chest, so do the lumbar, by communicating with the epigastric, form a similar, though less perfect, ring round the walls of the abdomen. D T) 2