JOINTS OF THE FINGERS. 351 motion of the metacarpal bone of the little finger is essential to the expansion and contraction of the palm. The carpal extremities of the metacarpal bones of the fingers are connected with each other by transverse ligaments, both on their dorsal and their palmar surfaces. They are also connected by interosseous ligaments, which extend between the bones, immediately below their contiguous cartilaginous surfaces. The distal extremities of these bones are loosely connected on their palmar aspect by the transverse metacarpal ligament. Synovial Mem- There are six distinct synovial membranes, brakes of the proper to the lower end of the radius, and the Wrist- several bones of the carpus (see the diagram, p. 347) as follows :— a. One between the lower end of the radius and the ulna. b. One between the radius and the first row of carpal bones. c. One between the trapezium and the metacarpal bone of the thumb. d. One between the cuneiform and pisiform bones. e. One between the first and second rows of carpal bones (the intercarpal joint). This extends to the metacarpal bones of the fore and middle fingers. /. One between the unciform bone and the metacarpal bones of the little and ring fingers. First Joint of The first phalanx of the finger presents a shal- the Fingers. low oval cavity, crusted with cartilage, with the broad diameter in the transverse direction, to articulate with the , round cartilaginous head of the metacarpal bone, of which the articular surface is elongated in the antero-posterior direction, and of greater extent on its palmar than its dorsal aspect. This formation of parts permits flexion of the finger to a greater degree than extension ; and also a slight lateral movement. Each joint is provided with two strong lateral ligaments, and a palmar. The lateral ligaments arise from the tubercles on either side of each metacarpal bone, and inclining slightly forward, are inserted into the sides of the base of the first phalanx of the finger.