471 PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. Is about an inch in length, is not of the same dimensions through- out : it is dilated in the middle, and gradually narrows towards each end. The upper end, which leads into the body of the uterus, is called os internum; the lower end, which leads into the vagina, os externum. The passage is called the canal of the cer- vix. It remains unchanged in pregnancy for some time after the cavity in the body has expanded, but gradually disappears with the increasing size of the embryo. The shape of the cavity in the body of the uterus is triangular, with the apex towards the cervix. In a virgin uterus the cavity is very small, and its sides are convex ; but in a uterus which has borne many children, the cavity has lost the convexity of its sides, and has increased in capacity. Each angle at the base is some- what prolonged, and leads to the minute opening of the Fallopian tube. This prolongation of the angles is noticed more or less in different females, and is the last indication of the two horns of the uterus in some orders of mammalia. The interior of the uterus is smooth at the fundus; but the reverse at the cervix. Here there is a central longitudinal ridge, both in front and behind (as in the vagina); from these, other closely set oblique ridges curve off laterally, like the branches of a palm-tree. In olden time it was called ' arbor vitw.i> The rough- ness produced by these ridges occasions an impression as though we were touching cartilage when a sound is introduced into the uterus. The neck of the uterus is provided with small muciparous glands, of which the minute ducts open in the furrows between the ridges referred to. The secretion of these glands is glairy, albuminous, and slightly alkaline. Soon after impregnation, the secretion becomes so firm as to plug the mouth of the uterus, but shortly before and during parturition it is poured out in great quantity, to facilitate the passage of the child. It happens oc- casionally that one or more of the ducts of these glands become obstructed, and then dilate into small transparent vesicles, which gradually rise to the surface and burst.* * These were firgt described by Naboth, and supposed to be true ova: hence their name ovula Nabothi. ' De sterilitate mulierum.' Lips., 1707.