170 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. of the tube is provided with unstriped muscular fibres which can approximate the ends of the rings. The relations of the trachea to the surrounding parts should be considered, first, in the neck, and then within the thorax. In the neck, it has in front of it the isthmus of the thyroid body, the sterno-hyoid and sterno-thyroid muscles, the middle thyroid veins, two layers of the deep cervical fascia, the arteria thy- roidea ima, if present, and (at the root of the neck) the innomi- nate and left common carotid arteries. Laterally, it is in relation with the lobes of the thyroid body, the common carotid arteries, the recurrent laryngeal nerves, and the inferior thyroid arteries. Behind it, is the oesophagus, inclining slightly to the left. In the chest, in front of the trachea are the origins of the sterno-hyoid and thyroid muscles, the left brachio-cephalic vein, the first parts of the innominate and left common carotid arteries, the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, and the deep cardiac plexus. On the right side are the pleura and right pneumogastric nerve; on the left, the pleura, the left carotid, the left pneumo- gastric, cardiac, and recurrent laryngeal nerves. Bronchi, Eight The two bronchi differ in length, direction, and and Left. diameter. The right is shorter than the left, about an inch long, and passes more horizontally to the root of its lung, on a level with the fourth dorsal vertebra. It is larger in all its diameters than the left; hence, foreign bodies which have acci- dentally dropped into the trachea are more likely to be carried into the right bronchus by the current of the air. The left is about two inches in length, and, descending more obliquely to its lung than the right, enters it on a level with the fifth dorsal vertebra. The vena azygos major arches over the right bronchus, to terminate in the superior v.c. The left bronchus passes under the arch of the aorta in front of the oesophagus, and subsequently crosses in front of the descending aortar The cartilages of the trachea vary in number from sixteen to twenty, of the right bronchus from six to eight, and of the left from nine to twelve. Those of the trachea form about two-thirds