249 LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. the thickness of the fibro-cartilages, the small size of the vertebra?, the oblique direction of their articulations, and, above all, the horizontal position and the shortness of their spines. In the dorsal region there is very little mobility, on account of the vertical direction of the articular processes, and the manner in which the arches and the spines overlap each other. In the lumbar region, the spine again becomes more movable, on account of the thickness of the intervertebral cartilages, and the horizontal direction of the spinous processes. Ligaments be- ^ne occiput is connected to the atlas by an tween the Occi- anterior occipito-atlantoid ligament which passes pital Bone and from the foramen magnum to the front arch of the atlas. The thickest part of this is in the middle. A posterior occipito-atlantoid ligament extends in a similar manner from the posterior border of the foramen magnum to the posterior arch of the atlas. It is thin and, superiorly, be- comes blended with, the dura mater, and is pierced by the vertebral artery and the suboccipital nerve. Between the condyles of the occipital bone and the atlas, there is on each side a capsular ligament. The movements which take place between the occipital bone and the atlas are flexion and extension, as in nodding forwards and backwards; and lateral movement, as in inclining the head sideways. Ligaments These are the most important; and to see them, between the the spinal canal must be exposed by removing the Occipital Bone arches of the upper cervical vertebra?, and the posterior common ligament, which is here very thick and strong. It descends from the basilar process of the occipital bone over the odontoid and transverse ligaments, and is called the occipito-axoid ligament or the apparatus luja- mentosus colli. Odontoid or The odontoid or check ligaments (fig. 48) are Check Ligaments, two very strong ligaments which proceed from the sides of the odontoid process to the tubercles on the inner sides of the condyles of the occiput. Their use is to limit the