172 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. "becomes bright red, in consequence of the accumulation of blood in the capillary vessels. It is continued into the ultimate air- cells, where it becomes thinner and more transparent. In its deeper layer is found a considerable amount of elastic tissue; in its superficial layer a quantity of lymphoid tissue. Its surface is lined with a layer of columnar ciliated epithelial cells. The vibratile movement of the cilia is directed in such a way as to favour the expectoration of the mucus. The ciliated epithe- lium lining the mucous membrane ceases at the commencement of the air-cells, where it is replaced by the squamous variety. At the root of the lung each bronchus divides into two branches, an upper and a lower, corresponding to the lobes of the lung; on the right side, the lower branch sen<Js a small division to the third lobe of the lung. The tubes diverge through the lung, and divide into branches, successively smaller and smaller, until they lead to the air-cells. These ramifications do not communicate with each other; hence, when a bronchial tube is obstructed, all supply of air is cut off from those cells to which it leads. The several tissues, cartilaginous, fibrous, muscular, mucous, and glandular, which compose the air-passages, are not present in equal proportions throughout all their ramifications, but each is placed in greater or less amount where it is required. The car- tilaginous rings necessary to keep the larger tubes permanently open become, in the smaller tubes, fewer and less regular in form. As the subdivisions of the tubes multiply, the cartilages consist of small pieces placed here and there; they become less and less firm, and finally disappear when the tube is reduced to one- fortieth of an inch in diameter. The smallest air-passages are entirely membranous, being formed of fibrous, elastic, and muscular tissues. The Lungs ^e ^unSs are composed of cartilaginous and membranous tubes, of which the successive sub- divisions convey the air into closely-packed minute cells, called the air-vesicles ; of the ramifications of the pulmonary artery and veins; of the bronchial vessels concerned in their nutrition; of lymphatics and nerves. These component parts are united by