216 OPHTHALMIC GANGLION. from the nasal nerve, which joins its posterior superior angle; a motor branch (from the lower division of the third), which enters its posterior inferior angle; and it receives a filament from the sympathetic plexus round the internal carotid artery. The gang- lion thus furnished with motor, sensory, and sympathetic roots, gives off the short ciliary nerves. They run forward very tortuously with the optic nerve, pass through the back of the sclerotic coat, where they are joined by the long ciliary (from the nasal), and are distributed to the iris and the ciliary muscle. Since the ciliary nerves derive their motor influence from the third nerve, the iris must lose its power of contraction when this nerve is paralysed. Third Nerve, The third nerve, just before it enters the sphe- Motor Oculi. noidal fissure, divides into two branches, both of which pass between the origins of the external rectus. The upper division has been already traced into the superior rectus and levator palpebras. The lower division supplies a branch to the internal rectus, another to the inferior rectus, and thsn runs along the floor of the orbit to the inferior oblique muscle (fig. 40). What is the result of paralysis of the third nerve? Falling of the upper eyelid (ptosis), external squint, dilatation and immo- bility of the pupil. Sixth Nerve, This nerve enters the orbit between the origins Motor Externus. 0f the external rectus above the ophthalmic vein, and terminates in fine filaments, which are exclusively distributed to the ocular surface of this muscle. Respecting the motor nerves in the orbit, observe that they all enter the ocular surface of the muscles, with the exception of the fourth which enters the orbital surface of the superior oblique. Inferior This muscle arises by a flat tendon from the Oblique. orbital plate of the superior maxilla on the outer side of the lachrymal groove. It runs outwards and backwards be- tween the orbit and the inferior rectus, then curves upwards be- tween the globe and the external rectus, and is inserted by a broad thin tendon into the outer and back part of the sclerotic, close to the tendon of the superior oblique. It is supplied by the lower division of the third nerve.