636 DISSECTION OP THE EYE. blood-vessels, except at its circumference, where they form loops. Its nerves, which are numerous, forty to forty-five in number, may be traced forwards in the transparent tissue as a fine plexus; this gives off minute fasciculi, which ramify beneath the epithelium, constituting the sub-epithelial plexus. From this very minute filaments run between the epithelium cells, forming the intra- epithelial plexus. After the removal of the sclerotic and cornea, Choroid Coat. we expose the choroid coat, and its continuation formerly known as the ciliary processes. In connection also with this tunic is a white ring, the ciliary muscle. The choroid is the soft and flocculent tunic of the eye, recog- nised by its dark brown colour and great vascularity. Posteriorly there is a circular aperture in it for the passage of the optic nerve. In front, the choroid passes beneath the ciliary muscle with which it is connected, and then extends forwards, terminating in a series of plaited folds, called the ciliary processes. It is connected with the sclerotic by delicate connective tissue, the lamina fusca, through which the ciliary vessels and nerves pass forwards. Ciliary Pro- The ciliary processes are the folds formed by CEsSES- the anterior part of the choroid, and may be best seen when the globe has been divided by a vertical section into an anterior and a posterior half, the vitreous humour being left un- disturbed. They are black, and consist of from sixty to seventy radiating folds, arranged in a circle about three lines broad. These processes consist of longer and shorter folds, the former being the more numerous. The longer fold is about a line in length; the smaller about half a line. One of the longer ones is seen in the diagram, p. 634. The processes fit into corresponding folds of the suspensory ligament of the lens, and their free ends project for a short distance into the posterior chamber. The vascular supply of the ciliary processes is most abundant, and resembles in the main that of the choroid. The arteries come * So called because its outer flocculent surface somewhat resembles the chorion, or external investment of the ovum.