DISSECTION OP THE ORGAN OF HEARING. 652 groove. The membrane is supplied with blood from the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular, and the Vidian. Eustachian For a complete account of the Eustachian tube Tube. (see p. 186). It proceeds from the anterior part of the tympanum, downwards, forwards, and inwards, to the pharynx. Ossicula The three small bones in the tympanum are Auditus. named after their fancied resemblance to certain implements, the malleus, incus, and stapes. They are articulated Fig. 165. to each other by perfect joints, and are so placed that the chain somewhat resembles the letter Z. Their use is to transmit the vibrations of the membrana tympani to the membrane of the fenestra ovalis, and, through it, to the fluid contained within the vestibule. But they have another use, which would be the ossicles of the eight incompatible with a single bone—namely, tympanum. ^0 permit the tightening and relaxation of A. Malleus. B. Incus. ., , iii i i •, • • i ■ c stapes, it lies horizontally the membrane, and thus adapt it either to and forms a right angle with . , ,, , , , , the long process of the incus, resist the impulse ol a very loud sound, or to favour a more gentle one. The malleus, or hammer bone, consists of an upper part or head, which is suspended to the roof of the tympanum by the sus- pensory ligament, and articulates posteriorly with the incus. From it proceeds the handle, which is nearly vertical, and is attached along its whole length to the upper half of the membrana tympani. The long process (processus gracilis) projects at right angles from the head of the malleus, runs into the Gdaserian fissure, and receives the insertion of the laxator tympani. The processus brevis, situated at the junction of the long process and the head, looks towards the membrana tympani, and receives the insertion of the tensor tympani. The incus, or anvil bone, is shaped like a tooth with two unequal widely separated fangs. Its broad part or body presents a concavo- convex articulation for the head of the malleus ; its long process