523 ANTERIOR CRURAL NERVE. be carried on ? The ascending" branch of the external circumflex communicates with the gluteal and the circumflex iliac; the in- ternal circumflex communicates with the obturator and ischiatic (see fig. 121). Again—how is the circulation maintained when the superficial femoral is tied below the profunda ? The descend- ing branch of the external circumflex and the perforating branches of the profunda communicate with the articular branches of the popliteal and the tibial recurrent.* The anastomotica magna arises from the femoral artery just before it leaves its tendinous canal. It emerges through the canal, and runs in front of the tendon of the adductor magnus, in company with the long saphenous nerve to the inner side of the knee. Here it divides into two branches : one, the superficial, accompanies the saphenous nerve, and is subsequently distributed to the skin; the other, the external, ramifies over the capsule and communicates with the other articular arteries.f Anterior The anterior crural nerve is the largest branch Crural Nertsu. of the lumbar plexus (p. 409). It comes from the third and fourth lumbar nerves sometimes also from the second. It passes beneath the crural arch, lying in the groove between the iliacus internus and psoas, about a quarter of an inch to the outer side of the artery, and soon divides into branches, some of which are cutaneous, but the greater number supply the extensor muscles of the thigh. The cutaneous branches, already described (p. 499), and the long saphenous nerve, are given off from the superficial part of the trunk ; the muscular from the deep part. The long saphenous nerve descends close to the outer side of the fe- mora,! artery^ and enters the tendinous canal with it in the middle third of the thigh. In the canal it crosses over the artery to its inner side. The nerve leaves the artery just before it becomes popliteal, and then * Read the account of the dissection of an aneurysmal limb by Sir A. Cooper, ' Med. Chir. Trans.' vol. ii. f In its course down the thigh the femoral artery gives off several small branches to the sartorius, and one of considerable size for the supply of the vastus internus. We may trace this branch through the substance of the vastus down to the patella, where it joins the network of vessels on the surface of that bone.