THYROID BODY. 36 lastly survey the objects in the central line of the neck, from the jaw to the sternum. This very vascular gland-like body lies over the Thyroid Body. fron^ an(j s{^es 0f the upper part of the trachea, and extends upwards on each side of the larynx. It consists of two lateral lobes, connected a little below the cricoid cartilage by a tranverse portion called the isthmus. Each lobe is conical, about two inches in length, with the base opposite the fifth or sixth ring of the trachea, and the apex by the side of the thy- roid cartilage. Its anterior surface is covered by the sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo-hyoid muscles; its deep surface embraces the sides of the trachea and larynx, and usually extends so far back- wards as to be in contact with the pharynx. Its external border overlaps, in most cases partially, but sometimes completely, the common carotid artery, particularly on the right side; and there are instances in which the lobe is deeply grooved by the vessel. The isthmus lies over the second and third rings of the trachea. This portion of the organ varies much in its dimensions. In some instances there is no transverse portion. This corresponds with the normal disposition in most of the lower orders of mammalia; but in man, it is a failure in the union of the two halves by which the organ is originally developed.* Generally, the vertical measure- ment is about half an inch. Between its upper border and the cricoid cartilage is a space about one-third of an inch in extent, where the trachea is free; this space, therefore, is the more preferable situation for tracheotomy. But the vertical measurement of this isthmus is sometimes of very considerable length, so that it has been seen covering the trachea almost down to the sternum.f * Concerning the development of the lateral halves and central portion of the thyroid body, see a paper by Callender in the Proceedings of the Eoyal Society, 1867. f From the upper part of the isthmus, or from the adjacent border of either lobe, most commonly the left, a conical prolongation of the thyroid body, called the pyramid, frequently ascends in front of the crico-thyroid membrane, as high as the pomum Adami, and is attached to the body of the os-hyoides by fibrous tissue. In some subjects we may observe a few muscular fibres passing from the os-hyoides to the pyramid. This constitutes the levator glandules thyroidece (see preparation in Museum of St. Barth. Hosp., Patholog. Series, No. 14) of some anatomists. There