111 J *-»lU.C>3, CU 52 EXTERNAL CAROTID ARTERY. The nerve to the thyro-hyoid muscle, which is derived from the hypo- glossal, accompanies this artery. 2. The dorsales linguae, two or more, run under the hyo-glossus to the back of the tongue. 3. The sublingual, arising near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus, supplies the sublingual gland, the mylo-hyoideus,and the mucous membrane of the mouth and gums. This artery generally gives off the little artery of the frsenum linguae, which is sometimes wounded in cutting the frasnum in children who are tongue-tied; especially when we neglect the rule of pointing the scissors downwards and backwards. 4. The ranine is the termination of the lingual artery. As it runs forwards to the tip of the tongue along the outer side of the genio-hyo- glossus, it distributes branches to the tongue, and at the tip inosculates slightly with its fellow. The lingual or ranine vein commencing at the tip of the tongue, runs along its under surface over the hyo-glossus, and terminates in the internal jugular vein. The best place for finding and tying the lingual artery has been mentioned (p. 46). The rule laid down is trustworthy only when the artery runs its normal course. We have known an instance in which a good anatomist failed in an attempt to tie the lingual artery, because the vessel arose from the facial behind the submaxillary gland, and then passed through the mylo-hyoideus to reach fh-e tongue. The course and relations of the external carotid artery, and its branches in the neck, should now be made out. In preparing a view of them, observe that nearly all the veins lie in front of their corresponding arteries. In removing the connective tissue and lymphatic glands, the student must take care of the nerves and other structures which are liable to be injured. _ The external carotid arises from the common Course and Kelations of the carotid about the level of the upper border of the External thyroid cartilage. It ascends to the interval Carotid Artery, between the ear and the jaw, and, at first, lies beneath the sterno-mastoid, the cervical fascia, the platysma myoides, and some branches of the superficial nerves. It is nexk ^