589 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN. missure, called the corpus callosum. In front of, and behind this white mass, the fissure extends to the base of the brain. The surface of each hemisphere is mapped out by tortuous eminences termed convolutions {9D^i)-> separated from each other by deep furrows, sulci. Many of the furrows are occupied by the large veins in their course to the sinuses; others are filled with subarachnoid fluid. The convolutions are folds of the brain, for the purpose of increasing the extent of the surface for the grey nerve-substance. They are not symmetrical on both sides, although they follow a somewhat similar arrangement. Their number, arrangement, and depth, vary somewhat in different individuals, and, to a certain extent, may be considered an index of the degree of intelligence.* Since the grey matter forms a sort of bark round the white substance, it is often called the cortical substance. The depth of the sulci between the convolutions varies in different brains, from an inch to half an inch; hence it follows that two brains of equal size may be very unequal in point of extent of surface for the grey matter, and therefore in amount of intellectual capacity. Under the microscope the cortical layer is seen to consist of four layers, two grey alternating with two of white, the external layer being always white.f Some of the sulci, from their depth, regularity, and early period of development, are termed the primary fissures, and map out the surface of the cerebrum into its different lobes. Of these there are three : the fissure of Sylvius, the fissure of Rolando or central fissure, and the parieto-occipital fissure (fig. 143). * Those who wish to investigate the cerebral convolutions in their simplest form in the lower classes of mammalia, and to trace them through their successive develop- ment and arrangement into groups as we ascend to the higher classes, should consult Leuret, 'Anatomie comparee du Systeme Nerveux considered dans ses Rapports avec llntelligence,' Paris, 1839 ; alsoFoville, 'Traits de l'Anat. duSystemeNerveux,' &c, Paris, 1844. The convolutions of the human brain have been described by Ecker, 'On the Convolutions of the Human Brain,' 1873; and by Turner, 'The Convolutions of the Human Brain, topographically considered,' Edin. 1866. f Six layers may be demonstrated in some situations, chiefly near the corpus callosum and the occipital lobe. For an account of these laminae see Lockhart CJlittke, 'Proceed. Royal Society,' 1863.