112 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. nerve, and is joined by a branch from the nervus accessorius. This ganglion will be described hereafter. About half an inch below the preceding the pneumogastric nerve swells out, and forms a second ganglion—ganglion of the trunk—(inferior ganglion) of a reddish-grey colour. This ganglion occupies about an inch of the nerve, but does not involve the whole of its fibres; the branch from the spinal accessory not being included. It is united to the hypoglossal nerve, from which it receives filaments. It also receives filaments from the first and second spinal nerves, and from the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. Thus, the pneumogastric, at its origin probably a nerve of sensation only, becomes, in consequence of the connecting filaments from these various branches, a compound nerve, and in all respects analogous to a spinal nerve. The branches of distribution of the pneumogastric are : a. The auricular (Arnold), which cannot at present be seen, will be made out in the dissection of the eighth pair at the base of the skull. b. The pharyngeal arises from the upper part of the ganglion of the trunk, and descends either in front of or behind the inter- nal carotid. The nerve, after passing the inner side of the internal carotid, divides into branches, which with the other filaments (described p. 109) upon the middle constrictor muscle form the pharyngeal plexus. From this plexus branches are distributed to the muscles and the mucous membrane of the pharynx. c. The superior laryngeal, derived from the middle of the ganglion of the trunk, descends behind the internal carotid, and divides into two branches, the internal and the external laryngeal. The internal laryngeal passes to the interval between the os hyoides and the thyroid cartilage, and enters the larynx (with the superior laryngeal a.), through the thyro-hyoid membrane to be distributed to the mucous membrane of the larynx and epiglottis. The external laryngeal, the smaller, gives off some branches to the pharyngeal plexus and the inferior constrictor, and then descends beneath the depressors of the os hyoides to supply the crico-thyroid muscle.