422 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. central point of the perineum, where it is blended with the fibres of the accelerator uringe. This muscle with its artery is divided in lithotomy. The deep transversus perinei is a small muscle occasionally present; it arises more deeply from the pubic arch than the super- ficial muscle, and passes inwards behind the bulb, to the central tendon. The next stage of the dissection consists in reflecting and re- moving the accelerator urinae from the bulb of the urethra, the erectores penis with the crura penis from the rami of the pubes and ischium, and the transversi perinei muscles. This done, the triangular ligament or deep perineal fascia is fairly exposed. Triangular Understand that the triangular ligament of the Ligament of the urethra and the .deep_perineal fascia are synopy- TJrethra. mous terms. The triangular ligament, shown in fig. 91, is a strong fibrous membrane stretched across the pubic arch. It is about an inch and a half long, with the base directed backwards. It consists of two layers, an anterior and a posterior. The anterior layer is firmly attached on each side to the posterior lip of the rami of the pubes and ischium; superiorly—i.e. towards the symphysis of the pubes—it is connected with the sub-pubic ligament ; inferiorly, it does not present a free border, but is connected to the tendinous centre of the perineum, and is con- tinuous with the deep layer of the superficial perineal fascia which curves backwards under the transversus perinei muscle (p. 417). The anterior layer of the triangular ligament is perforated --1 , in hum ii j inni whit tut-*' rwnrtinwiiTRiiwiMiiiiwi! about one men below the symphysis pubis, for the membranous part of the urethra. The aperture through which the urethra passes does not present a distinct edge, because the ligament is prolonged forwards over the bulb, and serves to keep it in position. The posterior layer cannot at present be seen. It belongs, strictly speaking, to the pelvic fascia, and slopes somewhat back- wards from the anterior layer so as to leave an interval between them in which are found structures which will be presently described.