31 DEPRESSORS OF THE OS HYOIDES. vhich covers the apex of the lung, and thus to resist atmospheric )ressure. Action of the The sterno-hyoid, sterno-thyroid, and omo- )epressoe hyoid muscles, co-operate in fixing the larynx and (Iuscles. os hyoides, e. g. in sucking, or they depress the arynx after it has been raised in deglutition. Again, they depress t in the utterance of low notes. That the larynx is raised or lepressed according to the height of the note may be ascertained >y placing the finger upon it while singing through an octave. - These depressor muscles are all supplied with nerves (fig. 8, ). 30) by the descendens noni (a branch of the ninth or hypo- glossal), and by the communicantes noni (branches of the second nd third cervical" nerves). The descendens noni sends a separate >ranch to each belly of the omo-hyoid. They are supplied with >lood by the superior and inferior thyroid arteries. T The thyro-hyoid arises from the oblique line on the ala of the thyroid cartilage, and runs up to >e inserted into the body and half the great cornu of the os hyoides. Phis muscle is a continuation of the sterno-thyroid. It is supplied >y a special branch from the hypoglossal nerve. It covers the hyro-hyoid membrane and the superior laryngeal nerve and artery, is they enter the larynx. _ The sterno-mastoid muscle must now be cut Dissection. transversely through the middle, and the two ends urned upwards and downwards, so that they may be replaced if lecessary. This done, notice the strong layer of fascia which lies mder the muscle and forms part of its sheath. It is attached to :he angle of the jaw, thence descends over the large vessels of the leek, and is firmly connected to the clavicle and first rib. This iascia prevents matter coming to the surface, when suppuration :akes place by the side of the pharynx. Remove the fascia, and clean the various structures beneath :he sterno-mastoid, taking care not to cut away the descendens aoiri and communicantes noni nerves, which cross the sheath of the common carotid. Dissect out the lymphatic glands which lie along the sheath of the large vessels.