460 DISSECTION OF THE FEMALE PERINEUM. like the corpora cavernosa of the male, and unite to form the body of the organ, which is surmounted by a small glans. The glans is provided with extremely sensitive papillae, and covered by a little prepuce. Its dorsal arteries and nerves are large in proportion to its size, and have precisely the same course and distribution as in the penis. Its internal structure consists of a plexus of blood- vessels, which freely communicate with those of the labia minora; for one cannot be injected without the other. By separating the external labia, two small and Labia Minora. - f, - . , , 3 thm tolas ot integument are exposed, one on either side, termed labia minora. These folds converge an- teriorly, and form a covering for the clitoris, called preputium clitoridis; posteriorly they are gradually lost on the inside of the labia majora. They, unlike the labia majora, do not contain fat, but are composed of minute veins. Between the nymphae and about the clitoris are a number of sebaceous glands. Between the labia minora, and below the clitoris, is an angular depression called the vestibule, at the back of which is the meatus urinarius. Immediately below this is the vagina, of which the orifice is partially closed in the virgin by a thin fold of mucous membrane called the hymen. A smooth channel called the vestibule, three- quarters of an inch in length, leads from the clitoris down to the orifice of the urethra. This orifice, meatus urinarius, is not a perpendicular fissure like that of the penis, but rounded and puckered, and during life has a peculiar dimple-like feel, which assists us in finding it when we pass a catheter. You should practise the introduction of the catheter in the dead subject, for the operation is not so easy as might at first be imagined, provided the parts are not exposed. The point of the forefinger of the left hand should be placed at the entrance of the vagina, and the meatus felt for; when the catheter, guided by the finger, slips, after a little manoeuvring, into the urethra. The canal is about one inch and a half in length, and runs along the upper wall of the vagina (p. 464). The two canals are in such close apposition that you can feel the urethra embedded in the