231 MEATUSES OF THE NOSE. But tbis is not the case with the maxillary cells, to empty which the head must be inclined on one side. To see all these openings the respective turbinated bones must be raised. c. The inferior meatus extends nearly along the whole length of the outer wall of the nose. By raising the lower turbinated bone, we observe, towards the front of the. meatus, the termination of the nasal duct, through which the tears pass down from the lachrymal sac into the nose. This sac and duct can now be con- veniently examined. Lachrymal Sac The lachrymal sac and nasal duct constitute and Nasal Duct, the passage through which the tears are conveyed from the lachrymal ducts into the nose (p. 81). The lachrymal sac occupies the groove on the nasal side of the orbit. The upper end is round and closed; the lower gradually contracts into the nasal duct, and opens into the inferior meatus. The sac is com- posed of a strong fibrous and elastic tissue, which adheres very closely to the bone, and is lined by mucous membrane. Its front surface is covered by the tendo oculi and the fascia proceeding from it. The nasal duct is from half to three-quarters of an inch in length, and is directed downwards, backwards, and a little out- wards. Its termination is guarded by a valvular fold of mucous membrane ; consequently, when air is blown into the nasal passages while the nostrils are closed, the lachrymal sac does not become distended. The lachrymal sac and the nasal duct are lined with ciliated epithelium, and the canaliculi with the squamous variety. Behind the inferior turbinated bone is the opening of the Eustachian tube (p. 186). Into this, as well as into the nasal duet, we ought to practise the introduction of a probe. The chief diffi- culty is to prevent the probe from slipping into the cul-de-sac between the tube and the back of the pharynx. Mucous ob This membrane lines the cavities of the nose Schneiderian and the air-cells communicating with it, and Membrane * adheres very firmly to the periosteum. Its con- * Schneider, ' De catarrhis.' Wittenberg, 1660.