144 (ESOPHAGUS. first to the right side of the transverse portion of the arch of the aorta, then through the posterior mediastinum in front of the descending aorta, and passes through the oesophageal opening in the diaphragm to the stomach. It is from nine to ten inches long. Its course is not exactly straight; in the neck, it lies behind and a little to the left of the trachea; in the chest, i.e. about the fourth dorsal vertebra, it inclines towards the right side, to make way for the aorta; but it again inclines to the left before it passes through the diaphragm. It has moreover an antero- posterior curve corresponding to the curve of the spine. The oesophagus, in the first part of its course, rests upon the longus colli muscle, then upon the thoracic duct and the third, fourth, and fifth intercostal vessels of the right side, and, lastly, it lies in front, and slightly to the left side, of the aorta. In front of it is the trachea and the left bronchus. Before it passes through the diaphragm it lies in close contact with the pericardium (behind the left auricle) for nearly two inches ; this accounts for the pain which is sometimes experienced in cases of pericarditis, during the passage of food. In the neck, the oesophagus is in connection, laterally, with the thyroid body, the common carotid and inferior thyroid arteries, and the recurrent laryngeal nerves ; to the left of it is the thoracic duct . In the thorax the aorta is to the left, and the vena azygos major to the right, of the tube. As it passes down in the inter-pleural space, it is in connection with both pleurae. The oesophagus is surrounded by a plexus of nerves, formed by the pneumogastric nerves, the left being in front, the right behind it. The oesophagus is supplied with blood by the inferior thyroid, the oesophageal branches of the aorta, the coronaria ventriculi, and the left phrenic artery. It is supplied with nerves by the pneumo- gastric and the sympathetic, which ramify between the two muscular layers. The oesophagus is composed of three coats, an external or muscular, a middle or areolar, and an internal or mucous. The muscular coat consists of an outer longitudinal and an inner circular layer of fibres. The longitudinal layer is parti- cularly strong, and arranged in the upper part mainly in three