517 EXTENSOR MUSCLES. bursae. One is placed between the ligamentum patellae and the smooth part of the tubercle of the tibia, the other between the crureus and the lower part of the femur. This last is of consider- able size. In early life it is, as a rule, distinct from the synovial membrane of the knee-joint; but after a few years a wide com- munication frequently exists between them. Action of The extensor muscles of the thigh are among the Extensor the most powerful in the body. Great power of Muscles. extending the knee is one of the essential con- ditions of the erect attitude. Without it, how could we rise from the sitting position ? When erect, how could we walk, run, or spring? The rectus, by taking origin from the pelvis, gains a double advantage ; it acts upon two joints simultaneously, bending the thigh while it extends the knee, as when we advance the leg in walking: it also contributes to balance the pelvis on the head of the thigh bone, and thus prevents the body from falling backwards. We cannot have a better proof of the power of the extensor muscles than when the patella is broken by their sudden con- traction ; an injury which sometimes happens when a man, slipping backwards, makes a violent effort to recover his balance. Bursa over The skin over the patella is exceedingly loose, the Patella. and in the subcutaneous tissue is a bursa of considerable size. Since this bursa is apt to enlarge and inflame in females who are in the habit of kneeling at their work, it is generally called the housemaid's bursa. The bursa is not seated precisely over the patella, but extends some way down the liga- mentum patellae; indeed, in some cases it is entirely confined to this ligament. This corresponds with the position of the tumour which the bursa occasions when enlarged. Generally speaking, in subjects brought for dissection, the wall of the bursa is more or less thickened, and its interior intersected by numerous fibrous cords, remnants of the original cellular structure altered by long- continued friction. Again, the wall of the bursa does not always form a complete sac ; sometimes there is a wide opening in it; this explains the rapidity with which inflammation, in some cases, extends from the bursa into the surrounding areolar tissue.