171 STRUCTURE OF THE LUNGS. of a circle, somewhat like a horseshoe in shape, and about one-sixth of an inch in their vertical direction. The first cartilage is the broadest, and that at the bifurcation of the trachea is shaped like the letter V; its angle projects into the centre of the main tube, and its sides belong one to each bronchus. The cartilages are connected, and covered on their outer and inner surfaces by a tough membrane, consisting of connective and elastic tissues. This membrane is attached above to the circum- ference of the cricoid cartilage, and is continued through the whole extent of the trachea and bronchial tubes. Posteriorly, where the cartilages are deficient it maintains the integrity of the tube. In this tissue, which is of a pale reddish colour, is a layer of unstriped muscular fibres, arranged in a transverse and a longi- tudinal direction. Muscular This thin stratum of unstriped muscular fibres Tissue, is exposed when the fibrous membrane and tracheal glands have been removed. Some of the fibres extend transversely between the posterior free ends of the cartilages, while some are arranged in longitudinal bundles. By their contraction they approximate the ends of the cartilages, and diminish the calibre of the trachea. L _ This is chiefly found in the membranous part of XiLASTXC J-ISSUF the tube, and its fibres run in a longitudinal direc- tion. It is this tissue which raises the mucous membrane into folds, and its elasticity admits of the elongation and the recoil of the tube. Tracheal Between the fibrous and muscular layers of the Glands. trachea are a number of small mucous glands, most numerous on the posterior part of the tube. They are compound racemose glands, lined with columnar epithelium, and in health their secretion is clear, and just sufficient to lubricate the air-passages. In bronchitis they are the sources of the abun- dant viscid expectoration. Mucous Mem- The mucous membrane lining the air-passages BRANE- is a continuation of that of the larynx. Its colour in the natural state is nearly white, but in catarrhal affections it