407 SYMPATHETIC IN THE ABDOMEN. far off, and that the circumflex iliac vein crosses the.artery.just above Poupart's ligament. After ligature of the artery the collateral circulation would be maintained by anastomoses between the internal mammary and the deep epigastric; between the lumbar arteries and the circumflex iliac; between the pubic branch of the obturator and the branch of the epigastric; between the gluteal and the internal and external circumflex; between the sciatic and the first perforating and the internal circumflex; between the obturator and the in- ternal circumflex; between the spermatic, the deferential, and the cremasteric and the external pudic; between the lower intercostal^ and the lumbar arteries and the epigastric artery. . Sympathetic The general. plan upon which the sympathetic Nerve, nerve is arranged has been noticed in the dis- section of the neck (p. 114). The lumbar portion of it must now be examined. The abdominal part of the sympathetic descends on either side in front of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae, along the inner border of the psoas. The nerve has an oval ganglion opposite each lumbar vertebra, so that there are five on each side. These ganglia are connected by small filaments, and each ganglion receives two branches from the corresponding spinal nerve, as in the chest. Solar Plexus The solar plexus is situated in front of the and the Semi- aorta and surrounds the cceliac axis in a dense lunar Ganglia. network of nerve-filaments, on which are several tortuously, instead of nearly straight, along the brim of the pelvis. But the vein dies not follow the artery in its windings, and may possibly lie outside the artery just where we propose to place the ligature. The mode of performing the operation described in the text is recommended by Sir A. Cooper. Mr. Abernethy, however, who first set the example of tying this artery, in 1796, adopted a somewhat different proceeding. He says: 'I first made an incision about three inches in length through the integuments of the abdomen, in the direction of the artery, and thus laid bare the aponeurosis of the external oblique muscle, which I next divided from its connection with Poupart's ligament, in tha direction of the external wound, for the extent of about two inches. The margins of the internal oblique and transversalis muscles being thus exposed, I introduced my ringer beneath them for the protection of the peritoneum, and then divided them. Next, with my hand, I pushed the peritoneum and its contents upwards and inwards, and took hold of the artery.'