32 COMMON CAROTID ARTERY. Parts exposed The objects exposed to view, when the muscle is beneath the reflected, are very numerous. Among these the more Sterno-mastoid. important are : the splenius capitis and colli, the posterior belly of the digastricus, the levator anguli scapulae, sca- lenus meclius and anticus, omohyoid, sterno-hyoid, and sterno- thyroid muscles; the occipital artery, the common carotid artery and its division, the internal jugular vein, the subclavian artery and the branches of the first part of its course, the cervical plexus, and the lower cervical nerves which form the brachial plexus; the phrenic, pneumogastric, hypoglossal, and spinal accessory nerves, the descendens and communicantes noni nerves; the sub- clavian vein and its tributaries; and lastly, a small part of the parotid gland, and the three sterno-mastoid arteries. On the left side, in addition, we find the thoracic duct. Course and The common carotid arises on the right side Kelations of the from the arteria innominata behind the upper Common Carotid. par^ 0f ^he rjght sterno-clavicular articulation ; on the left, from the arch of the aorta. It ascends in front of the bodies of the cervical vertebra?, by the side of the trachea, thyroid gland, and larynx, as high as the upper border of the thyroid cartilage, and then divides into the external and internal carotid. Thus a line drawn from the sternal end of the clavicle to a point midway between the mastoid process and the angle of the jaw, will nearly indicate its course. It is contained in a sheath of the deep cervical fascia. In the same sheath are the internal jugular vein and the pneumogastric nerve. The vein lies on the outer side of, and parallel with, the artery: the nerve lies behind, and between the artery and the vein. Behind the sheath are the sympathetic nerve, the inferior thyroid artery, and the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Lastly, along the vertebral column the sheath lies successively upon the longus colli and the rectus capitis anticus major muscles. Owing to the increasing breadth of the larynx, the two common carotid arteries, which at their origin lie near together, are separated by a wide interval at their point of division. At the lower part of the neck the carotid artery is deeply seated ; it is covered by the superficial fascia, platysma myoides,