320 CIRCUMFLEX ARTERY AND NERVE. It is below the deltoid that an ununited fracture of the humerus is most commonly met with, owing to the muscle dis- placing the upper fragment. ^ Kefiect the deltoid from its origin, and turn it Dtssfptton' downwards. Observe the ramifications of the circumflex nerve and the anterior and posterior circumflex arteries, on its under surface : notice also the large bursa between it and the tendons inserted into the great tuberosity of the humerus. The muscle covers the coraco-acromial ligament, the head, neck, and upper part of the humerus, as well as the coraco- brachialis and biceps, the pectoralis minor, the supra-spinatus, the infra-spinatus, and teres minor, the subscapularis and the long head of the triceps. Bursa undrb The large bursa under the deltoid extends for the Deltoid, or some distance beneath the acromion and the Sub-acromial. coraco-acromial ligament, and covers the tendons attached to the great tuberosity of the humerus. It communi- cates, very rarely, with the shoulder-joint. Its use is to facilitate the movements of the head of the bone under the acromial arch. Posterior This artery is given off from the axillary: it Circumflex runs behind the surgical neck of the humerus, Artery. through a quadrilateral opening, bounded above by the subscapularis and teres minor, below by the teres major, externally by the neck of the humerus, and internally by the long head of the triceps (p. 266). Its branches terminate on the under surface of the deltoid, anastomosing with the anterior circumflex, acromial thoracic, and supra-scapular arteries. From the posterior circumflex, a branch descends in the sub- stance of the long head of the triceps, to inosculate with the superior profunda ; this is one of the channels through which the circulation would be carried on, if the axillary were tied in the last part of its course. Circumflex This nerve, a branch of the posterior cord of the Nerve. axillary plexus, runs with the posterior circumflex artery. It sends a branch to the teres minor, one or two to the integuments of the shoulder, and terminates in the substance of