DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 638 Between the choroid membrane and the lamina fusca of the sclerotic is a layer of connective tissue, the lamina supra cho- roiclea, which serves to connect the two tunics. Ciliary This muscle consists of unstriped fibres, and Muscle, arises by a thin tendon from the sclerotic close to its junction with the cornea. Thence its fibres radiate backwards, and are lost in the choroid behind the ciliary processes. Some of these fibres form a circular muscle around the outer circum- ference of the iris, constituting the circular ciliary muscle, which was formerly described as the ciliary ligament. Its action is to accommodate the eye to objects at various distances, by rendering, the lens more or less convex.* Y j The iris is the contractile curtain suspended in —™" the clear fluid, which fills the space between the cornea and the lens. The iris divides this space into two un- equal parts, called the anterior and posterior chambers (fig. 161); i these communicate with each other through a circular aperture in the centre, called the pupil.f Its use is to regulate the amount of light which shall be admitted into the eye : for this purpose its inner circumference is capable of dilating and contracting accord- ing to circumstances, while its outer circumference is immoveably connected with the ciliary muscle, the choroid and the cornea. J The colour of the iris varies in different individuals, and gives the peculiar tint and brilliancy to the eye. The colouring matter or pigment is contained in minute cells ( pigment cells), lining the anterior and posterior surfaces of the Jris, the posterior taking the name of uvea from its grape-like colour. Pigmented cells are also found in the substance of the iris. When the iris is laid under water, and viewed with a low mag- nifying power, it is seen to be composed of fine fibres converging from all sides towards the pupil; many of them unite and form * Sir Philip Crampton has noticed that this muscle is well developed in birds. In them its fibres are of the striped variety, just as the circular fibres of the iris are. f The size and shape of the pupil vary in different animals. In the bullock, sheep, horse, etc., it is oblong; in carnivorous quadrupeds it is often a mere vertical slit during the day, but dilates into a large circle at night. } The diameter of the pupil in man varies from the —th to the § of an inch.