470 PELVIC VISCERA IN THE FEMALE. as erectile tissue. In this coat, muscular fibres, longitudinal and circular, have been demonstrated. The orifice of the vagina is surrounded by a circular muscle, called sphincter vaginae (p. 462). Superiorly, the vagina is intimately attached to the neck of the bladder, while to the rectum it is but loosely connected. Before the uterus is laid open, examine the LJ TFT? 179 *- shape of that portion of the neck which projects into the vagina. The back part of the cervix appears to project into the vagina more than the front; but this arises from the vagina being attached higher up posteriorly. If the vagina were cut away from the cervix, the anterior lip of the uterus would appear to project a trifle more than the posterior. For this reason, as well as on account of the natural slope forwards of the uterus, the front lip is felt first in an examination per vaginam.* The length, however, and the general appearance of the vaginal part of the cervix vary according to the age; it is also consider- ably altered by parturition. In the adult virgin it is smooth and round, and projects about half an inch : its mouth is a small transverse fissure. But after parturition, it loses its plumpness, the lips become flaccid and fissured, and the mouth larger than it was before.f The uterus must now be laid open by a longitudinal incision, to examine its interior. In doing so, observe the thickness of its walls, which is greatest towards the fundus. Before coming into the proper cavity in the body of the uterus, slit up a long narrow canal which leads up into it through the neck. This canal, which * This is the only way to reconcile the discrepancies one meets with in anatomical works, respecting tho comparative length of the lips of the uterus. Krause, Weber, J3usch, and others, say the anterior is the longer ; Mayer, Meckel, Quain, and others, the posterior. f Instances are recorded in which the neck of the uterus is preternaturally long. It has been known to project even as much as an inch and a half into the vagina. In such cases it gradually tapers, and terminates in a very narrow mouth. This is said to be one cause of sterility, and it is recommended either to dilate the mouth, or to cut off a portion of the neck. In support of this opinion, it is stated that Dupuytren was once consulted by a lady on account of barrenness; finding the neck of the uterus unusually elongated, he removed a portion of it: and shortly the lady became preg- nant. (Hyrtl, ' Handbuch der top. Anatom.')