GLUTEAL REGION. 535 formis muscle, above which is the trunk of the gluteal vessels and nerve, and, below which, are the greater and lesser ischiatic nerves, the arteria comes nervi ischiatici, the long pudendal nerve, the ischiatic vessels, the pudic vessels and nerve, and the nerve to the obturator internus. Coming through the lesser ischiatic notch, is the tendon of the obturator intern us^ and attached to it are the gemelli mnscle^ one above, the other below it. Extending from the tuber ischii transversely outward to the great trochanter is the quadratus femoris, and, below this, is seen the upper part of the adductor magnus. The origins of the semi- membranosus, biceps, semitendinosus^ and of the adductor magnus, from the tuber ischii, are also seen ; as well as the great sacro-ischiatic ligament, which passes upwards to the sacrum, and is pierced by the coccygeal brancli of the ischiatic artery.^ The great trochanter is exposed, together with a small portion of the vastus extern us ; and where the tendon of the gluteus maximus plays over the trochanter major, there is a large bursa, simple or multi- locular. Lastly, the side of the sacrum, the coccyx, part of the crest of the ilium^ the tuberosity of the ischium, and the coccygeus muscle are brought into view. Gluteus This muscle arises from the surface of the Medius. ilium, between the crest and the upper curved line ; also from the strong fascia which covers it towards the front. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is inserted into the upper and outer surface of the great trochanter: some of the anterior fibres—in immediate connection with the tensor fasciae— terminate on the aponeurosis of the thigh. Between its insertion and the bone is a bursa. Keflect the gluteus medius to see the third gluteal muscle. The line of separation between them is marked by a large branch of the gluteal artery. Gluteus This muscle arises from the surface of the Minimus. ilium below the upper curved line. Its fibres pass over the capsule of the hip-joint, and converge to a tendon which is inserted into a depression on the front part of the great tro- chanter, a bursa being interposed. This muscle and the pre-