PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. 113 d. The cervical cardiac branches, upper and lower, descend behind the sheath of the carotid artery to the cardiac plexus. The upper branch is small and proceeds from the ganglion of the trunk; the lower comes from the trunk of the pneumogastric before it enters the chest. Subsequently, the right lower cardiac nerve descends with the innominate artery to join the deep cardiac plexus; the left passes over the arch of the aorta to join the superficial cardiac plexus. e. The inferior or recurrent laryngeal nerve, turns, on the right side, under the subclavian artery (p. 61), and ascends obliquely inwards to the larynx behind the common carotid and the inferior thyroid arteries: it lies subsequently behind the trachea. On the left side, it turns under the arch of the aorta, just on the outer side of the remains of the 'ductus arteriosus;' after which it runs up between the trachea and the oesophagus. On both sides the nerves enter the larynx beneath the lower border of the inferior constrictor, and supply all the intrinsic muscles of the larynx, except the crico-thyroid. These nerves as they turn under their respective vessels give off branches to the deep cardiac plexus. The remaining brandies of the pneumogastric nerve to the lungs, heart, oesophagus and stomach will be examined in the dissection of the chest. Spinal Acces- The spinal accessory nerve issues through the sory Nerve. anterior part of the foramen jugulare, in a sheath of dura mater common to it and the pneumogastric nerve. It arises by numerous filaments from the medulla oblongata, below the pneumogastric, and from the lateral column of the spinal cord as low down as the sixth cervical vertebra. These roots con- verge to the jugular foramen, where the nerve consists of two portions: one of which, the internal or accessory, joins the pneumogastric ; the other, the external or spinal, is distributed to muscles. The accessory part, within the foramen jugulare, sends one or more filaments to the ganglion of the root of the pneumogastric. It lies close to the pneumogastric nerve at the ganglion of the I