LIGAMENTS OF THE ANKLE-JOINT. 5r2 contiguous surfaces of the bones are crusted with cartilage. In the large majority of instances the synovial membrane is a separate one, but it occasionally communicates with the synovial membrane of the knee-joint. Interosseous The contiguous borders of the tibia and fibula Membrane. are connected by the interosseous membrane. The purpose of it is to afford additional surface for the attachment of muscles. Its fibres pass chiefly downwards and outwards from the tibia to the fibula, but a few fibres cross like the ■ letter X. The anterior tibial artery comes forwards above the interosseous membrane, through an oval space about an inch below the head of the fibula. Lower down there is an aperture for the anterior peroneal artery. It is moreover pierced here and there by small blood-vessels. Inferior The lower extremities of the tibia and fibula Tibio fibular are firmly connected, for it is essential to the JoiNT" security of the ankle-joint that there should be little or no movement between the two bones. The anterior ligament is composed of oblique fibres which pass downwards from the tibia to the fibula; the "posterior ligament is stronger and narrower than the anterior, and its fibres pass horizontally from the outer malleolus to the posterior border of the tibia, above the articular surface. The inferior interosseous ligament connects the contiguous surfaces of the two bones. The synovial membrane of this joint is an extension upwards of that of the ankle- joint. Ligaments of From the form of the bones, it is obvious the Ankle-joint, that the ankle is a hinge-joint; consequently, its security depends upon the great strength of its lateral liga- ments. The hinge, however, is not so perfect but that it ad- mits of a slight rotatory motion, of which the centre is on the fibular side, and therefore the reverse of that in the case of the knee. Internal This ligament, sometimes called, from its shape, Lateral deltoid, is exceedingly thick and strong, and Ligament. compensates for the comparative shortness of the