163 DISSECTION OF THE HEART. Coronary The heart is supplied with blood by the two Arteries. coronary arteries, a right or posterior, and a left or anterior. They are about the size of a crow's quill. Both arise from the aorta just above the free margins of the two anterior semilunar valves, and thus always allow the passage of blood; both run in the furrows on the surface of the heart; both are accompanied by the cardiac nerves and by lymphatics. The anterior or left coronary artery, the smaller of the two, arises from the left side of the aorta. It appears between the pulmonary artery and the appendix of the left auricle, and then divides into two branches: one which seems the continuation of the main trunk and runs down the inter-ventricular furrow on the anterior surface of the heart to the apex; the other passes transversely to the left, in the left auriculo-ventricular groove to the back of the heart. The posterior or right coronary artery arises from the right side of the aorta, and descends obliquely between the pulmonary artery and the appendix of the right auricle. It then turns to the right in the groove between the right ventricle and auricle to the back of the heart, where it divides into two branches; one of which descends in the posterior inter-ventricular furrow towards the apex of the heart; the other, which appears to be the continuation of the main trunk, runs in the left auriculo-ven- tricular groove. Besides these branches, the right coronary gives off a large branch which runs along the free border of the right ventricle. Thus, the leading trunks of the coronary arteries run in the furrows of the heart, usually surrounded by fat. Their numerous branches supply the walls of the auricles and ventricles, and their terminations communicate slightly with each other. Coronary The vein which corresponds with the anterior Veins and Sinus. coronary artery ascends in the inter-ventricular sulcus, and then curves round the left side of the heart in the auriculo-ventricular groove, where it takes the name of the great cardiac vein. This vein soon dilates into a large trunk, the coronary sinus, which opens into the back of the right auricle. M 2