89 PAROTID GLAND. The duct of the parotid gland (ductus Stenonis*), about two inches long, is very thick and strong. In this respect it differs from the duct of the submaxillary gland, which is less exposed to injury. It runs transversely forwards over the mas- seter, about an inch below the zygoma, through the fat of the cheek, then perforates the buccinator obliquely, and opens into the mouth opposite the second molar tooth of the upper jaw. Near its termination it is crossed by the zygomaticus major and the facial vein. After perforating the buccinator, the duct passes for a short distance between the muscle and the mucous membrane. Its orifice is small and contracted compared with the diameter of the rest of the duct, which will admit a crow-quill; it is not easily found in the mouth, being concealed by a fold of mucous membrane. The direction of the parotid duct corresponds with a line drawn from the middle of the lobule of the ear to a point midway between the nose and the mouth. On carefully removing the substance of the parotid gland, the following structures are seen in its interior, proceeding in the order of their depth from the surface : 1. Two or more small lymphatic glands. 2. The pes anserinus, or primary branches of the facial nerve. 3. Branches from the auriculo-parotidean and temporo-auri- cular nerves which communicate in its substance with the facial nerve. < 4. The external jugular vein formed by the junction of the internal maxillary and temporal veins. 5. The external carotid artery, which, after distributing many branches to the gland, divides, opposite the neck of the jaw, into the internal maxillary and temporal; the latter giving off in the gland the auricular and transverse facial arteries.f * Nic. Steno, 'De glandulis oris,' etc. Ludg. Bat. 1661. \ Keviewing the intimate and deep connections of the parotid gland, one cannot but conclude that it is almost impracticable to remove it entirely during life. If this conclusion be correct, even in the normal condition of the gland, what must it be when