297 PALM OF THE HAND. DISSECTION OF THE PALM OF THE HAND. ~ Make a vertical incision along- the centre of the Dissection. ° palm, and a transverse one along the bases of the fingers; from this transverse cut continue vertical incisions along the front of the fingers, and reflect the skin; taking care not to remove a small cutaneous muscle—the palmaris brevis—situated near the ball of the little finger, and also two small cutaneous branches of the median and ulnar nerves, which are found in the fat of the palm. Observe how closely, in the centre of the palm, the skin adheres to the palmar fascia beneath it. On the ball of the little finger and the distal ends of the metacarpal bones, the subcutaneous structure is composed of a dense filamentous tissue, which con- tains numerous pellets of fat, forming an elastic pad. A similar padding protects the palmar surfaces of the fingers. These cushions on the ends of the fingers defend them in the powerful actions of the hand; they are also useful in subservience to the nerves of touch. The palm is supplied with nerves by two small branches—one, the palmar branch of the median, passes in front of the anterior annular ligament to the centre of the palm ; the other, the 'palmar branch of the ulnar, supplies the inner aspect of the hand. Palmaris This small cutaneous muscle is situated on the Brevis. inner side of the palm. It arises from the inner edge of the central palmar fascia, and is inserted into the skin on the inner side of the palm. Its use is to support the pad on the inner edge of the palm: it acts powerfully as we grasp; it raises the inner edge of the palm and deepens the hollow of it, forming the so-called 4 cup of Diogenes.' It is supplied by the ulnar nerve. P ma Fascia This fascia has a silvery lustre, and, in the centre of the palm, is remarkably dense and strong. It is divided into three portions, a central—by far the strongest; an external, covering the muscles of the thumb; and an internal, covering the muscles of the little finger. From the