400 PSOAS AND ILIACUS. and vein lie in front of the fascia, while the anterior crural nerve is behind it. The iliacus internus arises from the iliac fossa, from the ilio- lumbar ligament,* and from the capsule of the hip-joint. The fibres converge beneath the crural arch, and are inserted mainly into the outer side of the tendon of the psoas, and partly into the triangular surface of the femur, below and anterior to the lesser trochanter. Thus the two muscles, so far as their action goes, may be considered as one, and are sometimes called the ilio- psoas. The combined action of the psoas and iliacus is to assist in raising the body from the recumbent position, and to fix the pelvis steadily on the thigh : this supposes the fixed point to be at the trochanter minor. If the fixed point be at the spine, then the muscle flexes and rotates the femur outwards. It is this action which often occasions so much displacement in fractures of the upper third of the femur. Quabbatus -^n^s mus°le extends from the crest of the ilium Lumborum and to the last rib, and is contained in a sheath formed its Sheath. for it by the aponeurotic origin of the transver- salis (p. 361). The anterior layer of its sheath is attached to the roots of the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae, and the posterior layer to their summits. The muscle, broader below than above, arises from the ilio-lumbar ligament and from the crest of the ilium for two inches external to it. It is inserted into the last rib, and by tendinous slips into the transverse processes of the upper four lumbar vertebrae. Besides the preceding, a few fibres of the muscle arise from the transverse processes of the third, fourth and fifth lumbar vertebrae, and, running up in front of the others, are inserted in common with them. The principal use of the muscle is to steady the spine; it also steadies the last usually advances just above the crest of the ilium, or towards the groin through the inguinal canal; but, if seated beneath the fascia, the matter usually makes its way under the crural arch towards the upper and outer part of the thigh. * This ligament extends from the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra to the ilium.