DISSECTION OF THE PHARYNX. 180 lower angle of the lozenge is covered by the inferior constrictor; the upper angle ascends nearly to the basilar process of the occi- pital bone, and terminates upon the pharyngeal aponeurosis. The external surface of the muscle is covered at its origin by the hyo-glossus. Its nerve comes from the pharyngeal plexus. Between the middle and inferior constrictors, the superior laryngeal artery and nerve perforate the thyro-hyoid membrane to supply the larynx. The superior constrictor arises from the hamular process of the sphenoid bone, and from the lower part of its internal ptery- goid plate ; from the pterygo-maxillary ligament (which connects it with the buccinator) ; from the back part of the mylo-hyoid ridge of the lower jaw, and from the side of the tongue. The fibres pass backwards to the mesial line: some of them are inserted through the medium of the pharyngeal aponeurosis into the basilar process. Its nerve comes from the pharyngeal plexus. The upper border of the superior constrictor presents, on either side, a free semilunar edge with its concavity upwards, so that, between it and the base of the skull, a space is left in which the muscle is deficient (fig. 33). Here the pharynx is strengthened and walled in by its own aponeurosis. The space is called the sinus of Morgagni ; and in it, with a little dissection, we expose the muscles which raise and tighten the soft palate: i.e. the levator palati, and the tensor palati. The Eustachian tube opens into the pharynx just here. The fibres of the stylo-pharyngeus pass in between the superior and middle constrictors, and expand upon the side of the pharynx ; some of them mingle with those of the con- strictors so as to be able to lift up the pharynx in deglutition; but most of them are inserted into the superior and posterior margins of the thyroid cartilage. Pharyngeal The pharyngeal aponeurosis intervenes between Membrane or the muscles and the mucous membrane of the Aponeurosis. pharynx. It is attached to the basilar process of the occipital bone, and to the points of the petrous portions of the temporal bones. It maintains the strength and integrity of the pharynx at its upper part, where the muscular fibres are