340 SCAPULO-CLAVICULAE, JOINT. of the fibro-cartilage; the other between the articular surface of the clavicle and the outer surface of the fibro-cartilage. This inter-articular fibro-cartilage is a structure highly elastic, without admitting- of any stretching. It equalises pressure, breaks shocks, and also acts as a ligament, tending to prevent the clavicle from being driven inwards towards the mesial line. Observe the relative form of the cartilaginous surfaces of the bones: that of the sternum is slightly concave in the transverse, and convex in the antero-posterior direction; that of the clavicle is the reverse. The form of the articular surfaces and the ligaments of a joint being known, it is easy to understand the movements of which it is capable. The clavicle can be moved upon the sternum in a direction either vertical or horizontal: thus it admits of circum- duction. These movements, though limited at the sternum, are considerable at the apex of the shoulder. Scapulo- The outer end of the clavicle articulates with clavictxab the acromion, and is connected by strong liga- JOINT- ments to the coracoid process of the scapula. The clavicle and the acromion articulate with each other by two flat oval cartilaginous surfaces, of which the planes slant in- wards, and the longer diameters are in the antero-posterior direction. The superior ligament, a broad band of ligamentous fibres, strengthened by the aponeurosis of the trapezius, extends from the upper surface of the acromion to the upper surface of the clavicle. The inferior ligament, of less strength, extends along the under surface of the joint from bone to bone. An inter-articular fibro-cartilage is sometimes found in this joint: but it is incomplete, and seldom extends lower than the upper half. There is only one synovial membrane. Coraco-clavicular ligament- -The clavicle is connected to the coracoid process of the scapula by two strong ligaments—the conoid and trapezoid, which, being continuous with each other, should be considered as one. The trapezoid ligament is the more