BRANCHES OF THE SUBCLAVIAN ARTERY. 66 its course, and the superior intercostal in the second part. The most frequent deviation is, that the posterior scapular (trans- versalis colli) arises from the subclavian in the third part of its course.* Vertebral This, the first and largest branch, arises from Artery. the upper part of the subclavian. For a short distance it lies in the interval between the scalenus anticus and the longus colli. Here it enters the foramen in the transverse process of the sixth cervical vertebra, and ascends through the foramina in the transverse processes of the succeeding vertebra?. In the interval between the axis and the atlas, the artery makes a sigmoid curve, that it may not be stretched in the rotation of the head. Having traversed the foramen of the atlas, the artery curves backwards along the groove in its arch, perforates the posterior occipito-atlantoid ligament and the dura mater, then enters the skull through the foramen magnum, and unites with its fellow near the lower border of the 6 pons Varolii' to form the basilar artery. Directly after the artery is given off from the subclavian, it lies behind the internal jugular vein, and, on the left side, behind the thoracic duct. As it lies upon the groove on the neural arch of the atlas it is separated from it by the suboccipital nerve, and is situated within the suboccipital triangle. The vertebral "artery is accompanied by slender nerves from the inferior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic. These nerves communicate with the spinal nerves forming the brachial plexus. Destined for the brain, the vertebral gives off no branches in the neck, except a few small ones to the deeply-seated muscles; it furnishes, however, lateral spinal brandies to the spinal cord and its membranes which pass through the intervertebral foramina. * With reference to the origin of the posterior scapular (transversalis colli) artery, we made special observations during the winter session of 1858-59. We found that this artery was given off most frequently, not by the thyroid axis, but by the sub- clavian in the third part of its course. Under these circumstances the superficialis colli a. generally came from the thyroid axis.