POSITION OP THE HEART. 134 disease of the larynx; * that compression of the oesophagus would give rise to symptoms of obstruction. Nor rnust we forget the immediate vicinity of the thoracic duct and the recurrent nerve,f and the effects which would be produced by their compression. Can one, then, be surprised that a disease which may give rise to so many different symptoms should be a fertile source of fallacy in diagnosis ? Thus you can understand how aneurysms of the aorta may prove fatal, by bursting into the contiguous tubes or cavities; for instance, into the trachea, the oesophagus, the pleura, or the pericardium. You will see, too, why an aneurysm of the first part of the arch is so much more dangerous than elsewhere. The reason is, that in this part of its course the aorta is covered only by a thin layer of serous membrane. If an aneurysm take place here, the coats of the vessel soon become distended, give way, and allow the blood to escape into the pericardium ; an occurrence which is speedily fatal, because, the pericardium being filled with Wood, the heart is prevented from acting. Position and Tne heart is situated obliquely in the chest, Form of the between the lungs. Its base, i.e. the part by Heart, which it is attached, and from which its great vessels proceed, is directed upwards towards the right shoulder; its apex points downwards and to the left, between the fifth and sixth costal cartilages. It is supported, towards the abdomen, by the tendinous centre of the diaphragm. It is maintained in its posi- tion by a membranous bag termed the pericardium, which is lined by a serous membrane to facilitate its movements. The pericar- dium must first claim our attention. p The pericardium is the membranous bag which encloses the heart and the large vessels at its base. It is broadest below, where it is attached to the tendinous centre of the diaphragm, and to the muscular part in connection with * In the Museum of Guy's Hospital there is a preparation, No. 1487, in which laryngotomy was performed under the circumstances described in the text. f See 'Med. Gaz.,' Dec. 22nd, 1843. A case in which loss of voice was produced by the pressure of an aneurysmal tumour upon the left recurrent nerve.