DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. 624 All converge in the corresponding invertebral foramen to form a single nerve, composed of motor and sensory filaments. The filaments of the posterior or sensory roots are thicker and more numerous than the anterior. They proceed from the pos- terior lateral fissure, and previous to their union with the anterior roots are collected together and pass through a ganglion. The ganglion is of an oval form, and lies in the intervertebral foramen. The fibres composing these roots enter the cord, and may be traced to the posterior cornu, through which they pass in various directions. The anterior roots arise from the fissure between the anterior and lateral columns of the cord. The fibres of the anterior root may be traced through the antero-lateral fissure into the anterior cornu.* The compound nerve formed by the junction of the two roots (after the formation of the ganglion of the posterior) divides, out- side the intervertebral foramen, into an anterior and a posterior branch. See diagram, p. 622. Variation m The direction and length of the roots of the the Length of nerves vary in the different regions of the spine, the Boots. owing to the respective parts of the cord from which they arise not being opposite to the foramina through which the nerves leave the spinal canal. In the upper part of the cer- vical region, the origins of the nerves and their point of exit are nearly on the same level; therefore the roots proceed transversely, and are very short. Lower down, however, the obliquity and length of the roots gradually increase, so that the roots of the lower dorsal nerves are at least a vertebra higher than the fora- mina through which they emerge. Again, since the cord itself terminates at the upper border of the second lumbar vertebra, * The researches of Blanclin, ' Anat. descript.,' t. ii., p. 648, 1838, have led him to establish the following relation between the respective size of the anterior and posterior roots of the nerves in the several regions of the spine :— The posterior roots are to the anterior in the cervical region :: 2 : 1 ,, ,, dorsal „ :: 1 : 1 „ „ ,, lumbar and sacral :: l£ 1 This relation quite accords with the greater delicacy of the sense of touch in the upper extremity.