391 MESENTEKIC VESSELS. superior Mesenteric Artery and Branches. This large artery arises from the front of the aorta, descends beneath the pancreas, in front of the transverse part of the duodenum (p. 387), and then runs between the layers of the mesentery towards the right iliac fossa, where it terminates in branches for the supply of the caecum. Thus it describes a gentle curve from left to right. It gives off the following branches :— 1. The inferior pancreatico-duodenal branch, which runs up, within the concavity of the duodenum, to inosculate with the superior pancre- atico-duodenal branch of the hepatic. 2. Vasa intestini tenuis of the small intestine, from ten to sixteen in number, are given off from the left or convex side of the curve; while from the concave side come, 3. the ileo-colic; 4. the right colic; and 5. the middle colic for the supply of the ileum, csecum, ascending, and transverse colon, respectively. The student should now trace the branches to the small intes- tine, in order to see the series of arches which they form by their mutual inoscula&ons. There are three or four tiers of them, each tier composed of smaller and more numerous branches than the preceding. The ultimate branches ramify in circles round the intestine. This circular arrangement of the vessels in the coats of the bowel is practically interesting, because it enables one in almost all cases to distinguish the intestine from the hernial sac. The colic branches of the superior mesenteric are the ileo-colic, which is the continuation of the main trunk, and divides into two branches ; one supplies the lower part of the ileum, and the other the caecum :— the right colic, which proceeds towards the ascending colon, and the middle colic, which ascends between the layers of the meso-colon to the arch. They are arranged after the same plan as those of the small in- testine : that is, they inosculate and form a series of arches which suc- . cessively decrease in size and finally terminate in circles round the bowel. The superior mesenteric vein joins the splenic behind the pan- creas, and forms the vena portae (p. 388).