139 PLEUEA. As the lungs are continually gliding to and fro, within the chest, they are provided with a serous membrane to facilitate their motion. This membrane is termed the pleura. There is one for each lung. Each pleura forms a completely closed sac, and, like all other serous sacs, has a parietal and a visceral layer; that is, one part of the sac lines the contain- ing cavity, the other is reflected over the contained organ. Its several parts are named after the surface to which they adhere : that which lines the ribs is called pleura costalis; that which covers the lung, pleura pulmonalis. Unlike the peritoneum, the pleura forms no folds except a small one called ligamentum latum pulmonis, which extends from the root of the lung to the diaphragm. The pleural sac (fig. 20, p. 123) lines the ribs and part of the sternum ; from the sternum it is reflected backwards over the peri- cardium ; from thence it passes over the front of the root of the lung, and so on over the entire lung to the back part of its root, whence it is reflected over the sides of the vertebrae, and thus reaches the ribs and the diaphragm. The thickness of the pleura differs; on the lung it is thin, semi-transparent, and firmly adherent; on the ribs and diaphragm it is thick, and may be easily separated from its osseous and muscular connections. The spaces called anterior and posterior mediastina, formed by the separation of the pleurae, have been already described, p. 123. In health the internal surface of the pleura is smooth, polished, and lubricated by moisture sufficient to facilitate the sliding of the lung.* When this surface is thickened and roughened by inflammation, the moving lung produces a friction sound. When the pleural sac is distended by serum, it constitutes hydro-thorax ; when by pus, empyema; when by air, pneumo-thorax; when by blood, hsemo-thorax. * The pleura costalis is covered with flattened epithelial cells; the pleura pul- monalis with polyhedral grauular cells. (Klein.)