MUSCLES OF THE FACE. 82 Pyramidalis This is situated on the bridge of the nose, one Nasi. on each side of the mesial line, and is usually regarded as a continuation of the occipito-frontalis (p. 2). The two muscles diverge as they descend, and their fibres blend with those of the compressor naris. Their action produces transverse wrinkles of the skin at the root of the nose, as in the expression of an aggressive feeling. Compressor This nmscle is triangular, and arises by its Naris. apex from the canine fossa of the "superior max- ilia, and is attached to a broad thin aponeurosis which spreads over the dorsum of the nose, and joins its fellow. The origin of this muscle is concealed by the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi. When the preceding muscle is reflected from its junction with its fellow, a small nerve is seen running down towards the tip of the nose. This nerve is the superficial branch of the nasal nerve (called also naso-lobular). It becomes subcutaneous between the nasal bone and the cartilage, and supplies the tip and lobule of the nose. It is joined by a branch of the facial nerve at its termination. Depressor Aue This arises from the superior maxilla, above Nasi- the second incisor tooth, and is inserted into the septum and ala of the nose. It is situated between the mucous membrane and the muscular structure of the upper lip; so that, to expose it, the upper lip must be everted, and the mucous mem- brane removed. Besides the muscles above described, we find in connection with the cartilages of the alae of the nose, pale muscular fibres which have no very definite arrangement and require a lens for their detection. Some anatomists describe a 'dilatator naris posterior' as arising from the nasal process of the superior maxilla and the sesamoid cartilages, and inserted into the skin of the margin of the nostril; also a dilatator naris anterior, which descends verti- cally from the cartilage of the aperture to its free margin. The action of these diminutive muscles is to raise and evert the ala of the nose, and to counteract its tendency to be closed by atmo-