STRUCTUEE OF THE STOMACH. 488 sometimes nearly white. It consists of a plexus of minute veins, among which are numerous cells, some of which appear branched.* The stroma is composed of areolar tissue, which forms a delicate network throughout the central part. The supra-renal capsules are well supplied with nerves derived from the solar and renal plexuses of the sympathetic. Of late years the minute structure and functions of the supra-renal capsules have been much investigated, in consequence of the dis- covery, made by Dr. Addison, of the close relation which exists between certain diseases in these bodies and a brown discolouration of the skin. Their precise function is still unknown. Stomach and The alimentary canal is composed of four coats ; Intestine. a serous, a muscular, a submucous, and a mucous. First, is the serous or peritoneal coat, described at p. 379. Secondly, under the serous is a muscular coat, upon which the chief strength of the canal depends. It consists of two distinct strata of plain muscular fibres; the outer stratum is longitudinal, the inner circular. This arrangement not only makes the bowel stronger, but regulates its peristaltic action : for the longitudinal fibres, by their contraction, tend to shorten and straighten the tube, while the circular fibres contract upon and propel its con- tents to greater advantage. Connecting this coat and the mucous, is a layer of areolar tissue called the submucous coat, in which the arteries break up before entering the mucous membrane. The mucous is the most complicated of all the coats, for it presents different characters in different parts, according to the functions which it has to perform. The stomach should be moderately distended to see its size, which varies in different subjects according to the habits of the individual. When distended, an average stomach would be about ten or twelve inches in length and four in width. The stomach forms a large bulge to the left of the oesophagus, called the cardiac or splenic end : on the right side, where the food passes out, it becomes small and con- * Consult ' A Physiological Essay on the Thymus Gland,'by Simon: London, 1845.