293 "ULNAR ARTERY. The ulnar nerve is at first separated from the artery by a con- siderable interval: about the middle of the forearm it joins the artery? and accompanies it in the rest of its course, lying close to its inner side. Both pass over the anterior annular ligament of the carpus, lying close to the pisiform bone,—the nerve being nearer to the bone. A strong expansion from the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris protects them in this exposed situa- tion. Observe that the ulnar artery, in the lower third of its course, lies under the radial border of the tendon of the flexor carpi ulnaris, which is the surgical guide to the vessel. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which join the venae comites of the brachial. The ulnar artery gives off the following branches in the fore- arm :— a^The anterior and posterior ulnar recurrent arteries arise immediately below the elbow-joint,—sometimes by a common trunk. The anterior passes upwards between the brachialis anticus and the pronator teres, and inosculates with the inferior profunda and anastomotica magna. The posterior ascends between the flexor sublimis and the flexor pro- fundus digitorum, to the space between the internal condyle and the olecranon : it then passes up between the two heads of the flexor carpi ulnaris, where it inosculates with the inferior profunda, the anasto- motica magna, and, above the olecranon, with the posterior interosseous recurrent (p. 280). b. The common interosseous artery is about half an inch long. It arises from the ulnar, just below the tubercle of the radius, and soon divides into the anterior and posterior interosseous, which we shall examine pre- sently. c. The carpal branches are given off j list above the pisiform bone: the posterior carpal rums beneath the extensor tendons, and forms, with the corresponding branch of the radial artery, an arch, from which are usually given off the second and third dorsal interosseous ar- teries : these anastomose with the perforating arteries. The anterior carpal runs in front of the carpus, supplies the synovial membrane and the ligaments, and anastomoses with the anterior carpal from the radial. d. Muscular branches are also distributed from the trunk of the ulnar artery in its course.