86 ARTERIES OP THE FACE. the jaw at the anterior edge of the masseter muscle. Up to this point we traced it in the dissection of the neck (page 45). It now ascends tortuously near the corner of the mouth and the ala of the nose, towards the inner angle of the eye, where, much diminished in size, it inosculates with the terminal branch of the ophthalmic, a branch of the internal carotid. In the first part of its course on the face, the artery is covered only by the platysma ; above the corner of the mouth it is crossed by a few fibres of the orbicularis oris and the zygomatici; still higher it is covered by some of the fibres of the elevators of the upper lip and the nose. It lies successively upon the buccinator, levator anguli oris, and levator labii superioris muscles. In its course along the face it gives off the following branches : a. The inferior labial artery passes inwards under the depressor anguli oris and inosculates with the mental branch of the inferior dental, the inferior coronary, and the submental arteries. b. The inferior coronary artery comes off near the angle of the mouth, either directly from the facial, or in common with the superior coronary. It runs tortuously along the lower lip, beneath the depressor anguli oris; it then pierces the orbicularis, running between this muscle and the mucous membrane of the lip. It inosculates largely with its fellow, the infeiior labial and the mental arteries. c. The superior coronary proceeds along the upper lip close to the mucous membrane, and inosculates with its fellow; thus is formed round the mouth a complete arterial circle, which can be felt pulsa- ting on the inner side of the lip, near the free border. From this circle numerous branches pass off to the papillae of the lips, and the labial glands. The superior coronary gives off a branch, the artery of the septum, which ascends along the septum to the apex of the nose; also a small one to the ala nasi. d. The lateral artery of the nose, a branch of considerable size, arises opposite the ala nasi beneath the levator labii superioris alseque nasi, ramifies upon the external surface of the nose, and inosculates with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery, the infra-orbital, and the artery of the septum. e. The angular artery, which may be regarded as the termination of the facial, inosculates on the inner side of the tendo palpebrarum with the nasal branch of the ophthalmic artery.