110 PNEUMOGASTRIC NERVE. seated by the side of the pharynx and tonsil. It lies upon the rectus capitis anticus major, the superior laryngeal, sympathetic, and pneumogastric nerves. It is crossed, successively, by the hypoglossal nerve, the occipital artery, the digastricus and stylo- hyoid muscles ; higher up it is crossed obliquely by the styloid process, the stylo-glossus and stylo-pharyngeus muscles, by the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, and the stylo-hyoid ligament, all of which last-named structures intervene between it and the external carotid. On the outer side of the artery is the internal jugular vein ; and on the inner, the pharynx, the tonsil, and the ascending pharyngeal artery. The most important relation of the artery, in a surgical point of view, is, that it ascends close by the side of the pharynx and tonsil. In opening an abscess, therefore, near the tonsil, or at the back of the pharynx, be careful to introduce the knife with its point inwards towards the mesial line : observe this caution the more, because, in some subjects, the internal carotid makes a curve, or even a complete curl upon itself, in its ascent near the pharynx. In such cases an undue deviation of the instrument in an outward direction would injure the vessel. Ascending This artery generally arises from the external Pharyngeal carotid about half an inch above the angle of the Artery. common carotid. It ascends in a straight course between the internal carotid artery and the side of the pharynx, towards the base of the skull, resting upon the rectus capitis anticus major. It gives off branches which supply the pharynx, the tonsil, the Eustachian tube, and the muscles in front of the spine. A very constant branch, the palatine, runs down with the levator palati, above the superior constrictor of the pharynx, and supplies the soft palate. It also sends small meningeal branches to supply the dura mater; one of which ascends through the foramen lacerum medium, another through the foramen jugulare with the internal jugular vein. Pneumogastric The pneumogastric nerve is the largest and Nerve. longest of the three divisions of the eighth pair of