311 SUPERFICIAL MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 3. The posterior branch of the second dorsal nerve is the largest of all the dorsal cutaneous nerves. It runs outwards and ramifies in the skin over the spine of the scapula. 4, The posterior branch of the second lumbar nerve comes through the fascia lumborum near the posterior superior spine of the ilium, and runs over the crest of that bone to supply the skin of the buttock. _ The trapezius and latissimus dorsi, which form Dissection. a the first layer oi muscles, must now be cleaned by dissecting in the course of their fibres. Alone, this muscle is triangular ; with its fellow, Trapezius. . ' . _ , it presents a trapezoid form. It arises from the inner fourth, more or less, of the superior curved line of the occi- put ; from the ligamentum nuchas,* from the spines of the seventh cervical, and all the dorsal vertebras, and from their supra-spinous ligaments. The fibres converge towards the shoulder. The upper are inserted fleshy into the external third of the clavicle; the middle, into the inner border of the acromion and spine of the scapula; the lower terminate in a thin tendon, which plays over the triangular surface at the back of the scapula, and is inserted into the beginning of the spine. The insertion of the trapezius exactly corresponds to the origin of the deltoid, and the two muscles are connected by a thin aponeurosis over the spine and acromion. If both the trapezius muscles be exposed, observe that, between the sixth cervical and the third dorsal vertebras, their origin presents an aponeurotic space of an elliptical form. The structures covered by the trapezius are, the splenius, the complexus, the levator anguli scapulas, the rhomboidei minor and major, the supra-spinatus, a small part of the infra-spinatus, the longissimus dorsi, the sacro-lumbalis, the spinal accessory nerve, and the superfieialis colli artery. * The ligamentum nuckse is, in man, only a rudiment of the great elastic ligament which supports the weight of the head in quadrupeds. It extends from the spine of the occiput to the spines of all the cervical vertebrae, except the atlas ; otherwise it would impede the free rotation of the head. In the giraffe this ligament is six feet long, and as thick as a man's forearm. Professor Quekett states that when divided it shrinks at least two feet.