324 TRICEPS EXTENSOR CUBITI. minor, as far as the musculo-spiral groove. The internal head arises from the posterior part of the humerus, below the teres major and the musculo-spiral groove, as far as the olecranon fossa ; it has an additional origin from the internal intermuscular septum, and from a small portion of the external. The precise origin of these heads from the humerus, may be ascertained by following the superior profunda artery and musculo-spiral nerve, which separate them. The three portions of the muscle terminate upon a broad tendon, which covers the back of the elbow-joint, and is inserted into the summit and sides of the olecranon; it is also con- nected with the fascia on the back of the forearm. The effect of this connection is that the same muscle which extends the fore- arm tightens the fascia which gives origin to the extensors of the wrist and fingers. The same holds good in the case of the biceps, and its semi-lunar expansion in the fascia of the forearm. Between the tendon and the olecranon is a bursa, commonly of small size, but sometimes so large as to extend upwards behind the capsule of the joint. This bursa must not be mistaken for the subcutaneous one, which is situated between the skin and the olecranon, and is so often injured by a fall on the elbow. By dividing the triceps transversely a little above the elbow, and turning down the lower por- tion, it will be seen that some of the muscular fibres terminate upon the capsule of the joint. They have been described by some anatomists as a distinct muscle, under the name of sub-aneoneus ; their use is to draw up the capsule, so that it may not be injured during extension of the arm. The sub-anconeus is in this respect analogous to the sub-crurseus muscle of the thigh. Observe the bursa under the tendon, and the arterial arch formed upon the back part of the capsule by the superior profunda and the anasto- motica magna (fig. 61, p. 334). Trace the continuation of the superior profunda artery (p. 279) and musculo-spiral nerve-round the posterior part of the humerus. They lie in a slight groove on the bone,"* between the external * It is worth remembering that the nerve may be injured by a fracture of the humerus in this situation, and even by too tight bandaging; the result being para- lysis of the extensor muscles of the forearm.