106 INFERIOR MAXILLARY NERVE. especially to the upper division of the facial, which endows it with common sensibility : its branches have been described (p. 95). The inferior dental branch emerges beneath the external ptery- goid, and descends between the ramus and the internal lateral ligament of the jaw to the dental foramen, which it enters with the dental artery. It then runs in the canal in the diploe of the jaw and furnishes filaments which ascend through the canals in the fangs of the teeth to the pulp in their interior. Opposite the foramen mentale it divides into two branches, the mental and incisor. Observe that the same nerve which supplies the teeth supplies the gums; hence the sympathy between them. a. The mylo-hyoid branch, apparently arising from the dental, is derived from the motor root of the fifth, and may, with careful dissection, be traced to it. It leaves the sheath of the inferior dental nerve near the foramen in the jaw, and runs in a groove on the inner side of the ramus to the lower surface of the mylo-hyoid, which muscle, together with the anterior portion of the digastricus, it supplies. b. The dental branches pass upwards to the fangs of the molar and bicuspid teeth. c. The incisor branch is the continuation of the nerve, and passes to the symphysis, supplying the canine and incisor teeth. d. The mental branch (sometimes called labial) emerges through the foramen mentale, and soon divides into numerous branches; some ascend to the lower lip beneath the depressor labii inferioris, and com- municate with the facial nerve; others pass inwards to the skin of the chin. The gustatory or lingual nerve lies at first behind the external pterygoid m., then descends obliquely forwards between the ramus of the jaw and the internal pterygoid m., and subsequently for a short distance between the jaw and the superior constrictor of the pharynx. Here it lies close under the mucous membrane of the mouth near the last molar tooth of the lower jaw. Division of it in this situation has relieved pain in cancer of the tongue. The gustatory n. then rests upon the stylo-glossus and the hyo-glossus m., and after crossing Wharton's duct passes to the tip of the tongue.