431 SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCEEA. The pelvic fascia is a thin but strong membrane, and constitutes the true ligaments of the bladder, and the other pelvic viscera, supporting and maintaining them in their proper position. Examine, first, to what parts of the pelvis the fascia is attached; secondly, the manner in which it is reflected on the viscera. Beginning, then, in front (fig. 95), the fascia is attached. superiorly fo> the body of the pubes, to the side of the pelvis just above the obturator foramen, and to the greater ischiatic notch. Here it becomes gradually thinner, covers the pyriformis muscle and the sacral plexus, and is lost on the sacrum. From this attachment the fascia descends as far as a line drawn from the spine of the ischium to the symphysis pubis. Along this line, which corresponds with the origin of a considerable portion of the levator ani, the fascia divides into two layers, an inner, called the recto-vesical fascia i an outer, called the obturator fascia. The obturator fascia, the outer layer of the pelvic fascia, descends on the inner surface of the obturator internus, forming, at the same time, a sheath for the pudic vessels and nerve, the nerve being the lowest. It is attached to the arch of the pubes, and to the tuberosities of the ischia. From this fascia is derived the cinal_fascia, which lines the under or perineal surface of the levator ani, and is subsequently lost upon the side of the rectum. The recto-vesical fascia is the continuation of the pelvic fascia, and descends on the upper or internal surface of the levator ani to the bladder and prostate. From the pubes it is reflected over the prostate and the neck of the bladder, to form, on either side of the symphysis, two well-marked bands—the anterior true liqa/memtA of the bladder. From the side of the pelvis it is reflected on to the side of the bladder, constituting the lateral true ligaments of the bladder, and incloses the prostate and the vesical plexus of veins. A prolongation from this ligament incloses the vesicula seminalis, and then passes between the bladder and the rectum, to join its fellow from the opposite side. General The pelvic viscera are so surrounded by veins Position of the loose areolar tissue, that he who dissects them Pelvic Viscera in the Male. f°r the first time will find a difficulty in discovering