524 OBTURATOR NERVE. runs in company with the anastomotica magna to the inner side of the knee, where it becomes superficial, between the gracilis and the sartorius. In the middle third of the thigh it gives off a small branch which com- municates beneath the fascia lata with the internal cutaneous and obtu- rator nerves; and lower down another branch is distributed to the skin over the patella. Its further relations will be seen in the dissection of the leg and foot. The muscular branches are to be traced to the sartorius, rectus, crureus, and subcrureus; the branch to the vastus externus accompanies the de- scending branch of the external circumflex artery, and sends a filament to the knee-joint; that to the vastus in ternus runs parallel with, but external to, the long saphenous nerve, and siipplies filaments to the knee-joint. One branch passes under the femoral artery and vein to enter the anterior surface of the pectineus. The obturator nerve, also a branch of the lumbar plexus (p. 409), supplies the adductor muscles. It enters the thigh through the upper part of the obturator foramen above the corre- sponding artery, and immediately divides into two branches, of which one passes in front of, the other behind, the adductor brevis. The anterior branch subdivides for the supply of the gracilis, the adductor longus, and sometimes the adductor brevis and pecti- neus ; it, moreover, sends a filament to the hip-joint, another to the femoral artery: and a third forms a plexiform communication at the lower border of the adductor longus with the internal cutaneous and long saphenous nerves. The posterior branch supplies the obturator externus, the adductor brevis and magnus. In some bodies you can trace a filament of this nerve through the notch of the acetabulum into the hip-joint, and another, which runs near the popliteal artery into the back part of the knee-joint. We have frequently seen cutaneous branches from the obturator on the inner side of the thigh. This is interesting practically, since it helps to explain the pain often felt on the inner side of the knee in disease of the hip-joint. The obturator artery, after passing through the foramen, divides into two branches, an internal and an external, which form a circle round the obturator membrane. These supply the external obturator and adductors of the thigh, and inosculate