BRACHIAL PLEXUS OF NERVES. 70 the two vertebral: 3. Between the internal mammary and the intercostals and the epigastric : 4. Between the thoracic branches of the axillary, and the intercostal branches of the aorta: 5. Between the superior intercostal and the aortic intercostals. 6. Between the princeps cervicis and the deep cervical. Most of these inosculations are shown in the diagram, p. 69. Again, if the subclavian were tied in the third part of its course, the circulation would be carried on by the communications : 1. Between the supra-scapular and the dorsalis scapulae, a branch of the subscapular.: 2. Between the supra-acromial branch of the supra-scapular and the acromio-thoracic : 3. Between the posterior scapular and the subscapular and dorsalis scapulse : 4. Between the internal mammary, the aortic intercostals and superior intercostal on the one hand, and the long and short thoracic branches of the axillary, on the other. Subclavian The subclavian vein does not form an arch like Vein. the artery, but proceeds in a nearly straight line over the first rib to join the internal jugular. Throughout its whole course the vein is situated on a plane anterior to and a little lower than the artery, from which it is separated by the scalenus anticus, the phrenic and pneumogastric nerves. It has a pair of valves just before its junction with the internal jugu- lar. It receives the anterior jugular, the vertebral, the external jugular, and through it, the supra-scapular and posterior scapular veins. Brachial The large nerves forming the plexus which sup- Plexus of plies the upper extremity are the'anterior divisions Nerves. 0f ^e four iower cervical and the first dorsal, with a small fasciculus derived from the fourth cervical nerve. Emer- ging from the intervertebral foramina they appear between the anterior and middle scalene muscles, and pass with the subclavian artery into the axilla. To this bundle of nerves the name plexus is given, on account of their mutual communications. The plexus at its root is wide, and situated higher than the subclavian artery, and nearly on the same plane ; but as the plexus descends beneath the clavicle, its component nerves converge, and, in the