143 (ESOPHAGUS. are conveyed into the blood. These vessels converge to a general receptacle, termed receptaculum chyli, situated in front of the body of the second lumbar vertebra. From this dilatation, the duct ascends at first behind the aorta. Then getting to its right side, it passes through the aortic opening of the diaphragm into the chest, and runs up the posterior mediastinum, still along the right side of the aorta, between this vessel and the vena azygos major. Near the third dorsal vertebra, it passes behind the arch of the aorta and the oesophagus, and ascends on the left side of this tube, between it and the left subclavian artery, as high as the seventh cervical vertebra, where it describes a curve with the con- vexity upwards, and opens in front of the scalenus anticus into the back part of the confluence of the left internal jugular and sub- clavian veins. The orifice of the duct is guarded by two valves which permit fluid to pass from the duct into the vein, but not vice versa. Valves, disposed like those in the venous system, are placed at short intervals along the duct, so that its contents can only pass upwards.* The diameter of the duct varies in different parts of its course ; at its commencement it is about three lines in diameter, at the sixth dorsal it is about two lines, and it enlarges again towards the termination. It receives the lymphatics from the lower extremities, and from all the abdominal viscera (except the convex surface of the liver and the abdominal walls), above these it receives the lymphatics from the left side of the thorax, the left lung, the heart, the left upper extremity, and the left side of the head and neck. The oesophagus is that part of the alimentary (Esophagus. - canal which conveys the food from the pharynx to the stomach. It commences at the lower border of the fifth cervical vertebra, at the back of the cricoid cartilage ; runs down * It is right to state that the thoracic duct varies in size in different individuals. It may divide in its course into two branches, which subsequently reunite; instead of one, there may be several terminal orifices. Instances have been observed in which the duct has terminated on the right instead of the left side (Fleischmann, ' Leichen- bffnungen,' 1815; also Morrison, 'Journal of Anat.,' vol. vi. p. 427). It has been seen to terminate in the vena azygos (Muller's 'Archiv,' 1834).