418 DISSECTION OF THE MALE PERINEUM. effused into the perineum, does not make its way into the ischio- rectal fossae, or down the thighs, but passes readily into the scrotum and penis. Eemove the fascia to see the muscles which Dissection*. cover the bulb of the urethra and the crura of the penis. The bulb of the urethra lies in the middle of the peri- neum, and is covered by a strong muscle, called accelerator urinse. The crura penis are attached, one to each side of the pubic arch, and are covered each by a muscle, called erector penis. A narrow slip of muscle, called transversus perinei, extends on either side from the tuber ischii to the central tendinous point of the peri- neum. This point is about one inch and a quarter in front of the anus, and serves for the attachment of muscular fibres from all quarters of the perineum. Thus the muscles of the perineum describe on each side a triangle, of which the sides are formed by the accelerator urinas and the eras penis respectively, and the base by the transversus perinei. Across this triangle run up from base to apex the super- ficial perineal vessels and nerves. External to the ramus of the ischium is seen the inferior pudendal nerve, a branch of the lesser ischiatic. Superficial The superficial perineal artery comes from Perineal Vessels the internal pudic as it runs up the inner side of and Nerves. ^he tuber ischii. Though the main trunk cannot be seen, it can be easily felt by pressing the finger against the bone. The artery comes into view a little above the level of the anus, passes up the perineal triangle, distributing branches to all the muscles, and is finally lost on the scrotum. The only named branch is called transversalis perinei (fig. 89). This is given off near the base of the triangle, and runs with the transversus perinei muscle towards the central point of the perineum, where it anastomoses with its fellow. It is necessarily divided in the first incision in lithotomy, and deserves attention, because it is sometimes of considerable size. The artery is accompanied by two veins, which are frequently dilated and tortuous, especially in diseased conditions of the scrotum.