GLUTEAL REGION. 537 This muscle lies immediately below and parallel to the lower fibres of the gluteus medius. It arises by three fleshy fasciculi from the second, third, and fourth segments of the front surface of the sacrum between the foramina for the sacral nerves, and from the margin of the great sacro- ischiatic notch. The fibres converge to a tendon which is inserted into the upper border of the trochanter major. Its nerve comes from the sacral plexus. Obturator This muscle, of which little more than the Internus. tendon can be seen at present, arises within the pelvis, from the ischium between the great ischiatic notch and the obturator foramen, and superiorly as high as the brim of the pelvis, from the obturator membrane, and slightly also from the obturator fascia. The fibres terminate on four tendons which converge towards the lesser ischiatic notch, pass round it as over a pulley, and then uniting into one, are inserted into the top of the great trochanter, close to the digital fossa. Divide the tendon about three inches from its insertion, to see the four tendons which play over the smooth cartilaginous surface. There is a large synovial bursa to diminish friction. The nerve of this muscle comes from the sacral plexus ; sometimes from the pudic nerve. Gemelu These muscles are accessory to the obturator internus, and are. situated, one above, the other below it. The gemellus superior arises from the spine of the ischium; the gemellus inferior from the upper and back part of the tuberosity. Their fibres are inserted into the tendon of the obturator internus. Both muscles derive their nerves from the sacral plexus. Quadratus This muscle arises from the ridge on the outer Femoris. part of the tuber ischii. Its fibres run horizontally outwards, and are inserted into the back of the great trochanter, into the greater part of the linea quadrati. The lower border of the quadratus femoris runs parallel with the upper edge of the adductor magnus; in fact, it lies on the same plane. Between these muscles is generally seen a terminal branch of the internal