INTERNAL CAROTID AT THE BASE OF THE SKULL. 227 c. The lesser petrosal nerve, which runs to the otic ganglion. (Fig. 46. 4.) d. The external petrosal, which connects the facial nerve with the sympathetic plexus around the middle meningeal artery. (Fig. 46. 5.) e. The nerve to the Stapedius muscle, which runs in tlae pyramid. (Fig. 45. 4.) f. The chorda tympani, which joins the submaxillary ganglion. The chorda tympani is given off from the facial nerve before its exit from the stylo-mastoid foramen. It ascends a short distance in a bony canal at the back of the tympanum, and enters that cavity below the pyramid, close to the membrana tympani. It runs forward, ensheathed in mucous membrane, through the tympanum, between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, to the anterior part of that cavity. . It then traverses a special bony canal,* and emerges from the tympanum external to the fissura Glaseri. It subsequently joins the lower border of the gustatory nerve at an acute angle, and proceeds to the sub- maxillary ganglion. It is said to supply the laxator tympani muscle.f Course of In- ^ne sterna! carotid takes a very tortuous teenal Carotid course through the base of the skull before it through Base of reaches the brain. . It makes no less than four curves. It first curves forwards and inwards through the carotid canal of the temporal bone; it makes a second curve upwards through the cartilage in the foramen lacerum medium; it then makes a third curve forwards on the side of the body of the sphenoid; and, lastly, a fourth curve upwards on the inner side of the anterior clinoid process, after which it enters the cranial cavity, gives off the ophthalmic, and divides into the an- terior cerebral, the middle cerebral, and the posterior communi- cating arteries. The internal carotid is accompanied in the carotid canal by the cranial branch of the superior cervical ganglion of the sympa- thetic, described p. 115. Its position on the inner wall of the * Canal of Huguier. f This is probably not muscular, but ligamentous in structure. Q 2