SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 439 glands. It traverses the two layers of the triangular ligament, and is about an inch below the symphysis pubis, and nearly the same distance from the rectum; it is not, however, equidistant from this portion of the intestine at all points, because of the downward bend which the rectum makes towards the anus.* The membranous-part of the urethra in children is very long, owing, to the smallness of the prostate at that period of life ; it is also composed of thin and delicate walls, and^lies close to the rectum. In sounding a child, therefore, it is very necessary not to use violence, else the instrument is likely to pass through the coats of the, urethra and make a false passage. This muscle supports the anus and lower part Levator Ani. „ i ' oi the rectum like a simg; and, with the coccy- geus and compressor urethras, forms a muscular floor for the cavity of the pelvis; To see the muscle, the pelvic fascia must be reflected from its upper surface. It arises^ from the posterior aspect of the pubes near the symphysis, from the spine of the ischium, and, between these bones, from the tendinous line which marks the division of the pelvic fascia into the obturator and recto-vesical layers (p. 430). From this long origin the fibres descend inwards, and. are inserted thus—the anterior, passing under the prostate, meet their fellow in the middle line of the perineum in front of the anus (forming the 6 so-called' levator prostatas); the middle are inserted into the side of the rectum, while the posterior meet their fellow beneath the rectum.. The levator ani is supplied by the inferior hemorrhoidal, the two lower sacral, and the coccygeal nerves. The action of the levatores ani is to retract the anus and the rectum after it has been protruded in defaecation by the combined action of the abdominal muscles and the diaphragm. This muscle should be regarded as #a continu- Coccygetjs. . 1 -r7 ' • . -■' ation ot the levator am. It arises by its apex from the spine of the ischium, gradually spreads out,_and is in- * If a clean vertical section were made, we should see that the two canals form the sides of a triangular space, of which the apex is towards the prostate. This is sometimes called the recto-urethral triangle.