536 GLUTEAL REGION. ceding are supplied by the superior gluteal nerve, a branch of the lumbo-sacral. The chief action of this and the preceding muscle is to assist in balancing the pelvis steadily on the thigh, as when we are standing on one leg ; with the fixed point at the ilium, they are abductors of the thigh. The anterior fibres of the gluteus medius co-operate with the tensor fasciae in rotating the thigh inwards. Gluteal The gluteal artery is the largest branch of the Vessels and internal iliac (p. 441). Emerging from the Nerves. pelvis through the great ischiatic foramen be- tween the pyriformis and the gluteus medius, it divides into large branches for the supply of the gluteal muscles. Of these, the more superficial proceed forwards between the gluteus maximus and medius, both of which they supply, and eventually anastomose with the posterior sacral and ischiatic arteries; others, deeper, run in curves between the gluteus medius and minimus, towards the anterior part of the ilium. Many of them inosculate with branches of the external circumflex, the deep circumflexa ilii, and the ischiatic arteries. The nerve which accompanies the gluteal artery is a branch of the lumbo-sacral nerve (p. 445). It subdivides to supply the gluteus medius and minimus, and the tensor fasciae; in some subjects it sends a branch to the gluteus maximus; but this muscle is chiefly supplied by the lesser ischiatic nerve. A surgeon ought to be able to cut down and tie the gluteal artery as it emerges from the pelvis. The following is the best rule for finding it:—* Draw a line from the posterior superior spine of the ilium to the trochanter major, rotated inwards. The junction of the upper with the middle third of this line lies over the artery as it emerges from the upper border of the great ischiatic notch. Now examine the series of muscles which rotate the thigh outwards—namely, the pyriformis, the obturator internus, the gemelli, the quadratus femoris, and the obturator extemus. * The operation of tying the gluteal artery was first performed by John Bell. See his ' Principles of Surgery,' vol. i. p. 421.