596 DISSECTION OF THE BRaIN. which pass through the foramina of the cribriform plate.* For the description of these, see p. 233. The nerve arises by three roots—an outer and an inner, com- posed of white matter, and a middle, composed of grey (p. 595). The outer root passes forwards as a thin white line from the bottom of the fissure of Sylvius, and describes a curve with the concavity outwards. Its deeper origin has been traced to the optic thalamus and a nucleus in the anterior part of the temporo- sphenoidal lobe. The inner root arises from the posterior extremity of the in- ternal convolution of the frontal lobe, and thence may be traced to the gyrus fornicatus. The middle, or grey root, arises from the grey matter of the sulcus, in which the nerve is lodged, and from the grey matter of the locus perforatus anticus; to see it, therefore, the nerve should be turned backwards. It contains white fibres in its interior, which have been traced to the corpus striatum. Second Pair The optic tracts arise from the corpora quadri- or Optic. gemina, the corpora geniculata, and the optic thalami (p. 595). They wind round the crura cerebri, with which they are connected by their anterior borders, and join in the middle line to form the optic commissure. This commissure rests upon the sphenoid bone in front of the sella turcica; and from it each optic nerve, invested by its fibrous sheath, passes through the optic foramen into the orbit and terminates in the retina. At the commissure some of the nerve-fibres cross from one side to the other. This decussation affects only the middle fibres of * Strictly speaking, the olfactory nerve and its ganglion are integral parts (the prosencephala lobe) of the brain. What in human anatomy is called the origin of the nerve is, in point of fact, the cms of the olfactory lobe, and is in every way homo- logous to the crus cerebri or cerebelli. In proof of this, look at the enormous size and connections of the crus in animals which have very acute sense of smell. Throughout the vertebrate kingdom there is a strict ratio between the sense of smell and the development of the olfactory lobes. Again, in many animals, these lobes are actually larger than the cerebral, and contain in their interior a cavity which com- municates with the lateral ventricles. According to Tiedemann, this cavity exitts even in the human foetus at an early period.