555 POSTERIOR TIBIAL ARTERY. and turn the foot inwards. It is supplied by the posterior tibial nerve. The precise situation of the tendon of the tibialis posticus is interesting, surgically, because the tendon has to be divided for the relief of talipes varus. It lies close to, and parallel with, the inner edge of the tibia, so that this is the guide to it. It is necessary to relax the tendon, while the knife is introduced between the tendon and the bone. Its synovial sheath commences about 1J inches above the end of the internal malleolus, and is consequently opened in the operation. Attention should now be directed to the internal or posterior annular ligament, which binds down the tendons behind the inner ankle. It is attached to the internal malleolus and the inner border of the os calcis. It is continuous above with the deep fascia, below with the plantar fascia. Beneath it pass the tendons of the deep- seated muscles of the leg into the sole of the foot. The relative positions of the structures passing under this ligamentpproceedmg from within outwards, are— the tendons of the tibialis posticus, and the flexor longus digitorum"; the posterior tibial artery ac- companied by its venae comites ; the posterior tibial nerve ; and, lastly, the tendon of the flexor longus pollicis. n^x™^ »xrr^ This artery is one of the branches into which Eelations of the popliteal divides at the lower border of the the Posterior popliteus. It descends over the deep muscles at Tibial Artery. ^ back Qf the leg to fche interval between the internal malleolus and the os calcis, and, entering the sole, divides beneath the abductor pollicis into the external and internal plantar arteries. It lies, first, for a short distance, upon the tibialis posticus, then, on the flexor longus digitorum ; but behind the ankle it is in contact with the tibia, so that here it can be felt beating, and effectually compressed. In the upper part of its course, it runs nearly midway between the bones, and is covered by the gastrocnemius and soleus : to tie it, therefore, in this situation, is difficult. But in the lower part of its course, it gradually approaches the inner border of the tibia, from which, generally speaking, it is not more than ^ or J of an inch