191 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. prominence, which gives attachment to the crico-thyroid muscle. The superior border is nearly horizontal. The posterior border is nearly vertical, and gives insertion to the stylo-pharyngeus and palato-pharyngeus muscles. This border terminates above and below in round projections called the upper and lower comua. The upper is the longer ; the lower articulates with the side of the cricoid cartilage. Cricoid Car- This cartilage, named from its resemblance to tilage. a ring?* is situated below the thyroid. It is not of equal depth all round. It is narrow in front, where it may be felt about one quarter of an inch below the thyroid ; from this part, the upper border gradually rises, so that posteriorly, the ring is an inch in vertical depth, and occupies part of the interval left between the alae of the thyroid. In the middle of this broad posterior surface is a vertical ridge, on either side of which observe a superficial excavation for the origin of the crico-arytenoidei postici: to the lower part of the vertical ridge are attached some of the longitudinal fibres of the oesophagus. On its upper part are two oval slightly- convex surfaces for the articulation of the arytenoid cartilages. In front, its upper border presents a broad excavation to which the crico-thyroid ligament is attached. On its outer surface, external to the depression for the crico- arytenoideus posticus, is an elevated facet which articulates with the inferior cornu of the thyroid cartilage. In front of this articular surface it gives attachment to the inferior constrictor of the pharynx. The lower border is connected by elastic membrane to the first ring of the trachea. The inner surface is smooth, and the upper border is elliptical; its lower being nearly circular. ^ The thyroid cartilage is connected to the cricoid by a membrane—the crico-thyroid. It consists of a median triangular portion composed mainly of elastic tissue, with its base directed upwards. The lateral portions are thin and membranous, extending as far backwards as the articular facets for the thyroid cartilage, and are intimately connected with the inferior vocal cords. Between the inferior cornu of the thyroid * Kp'iKos, a ring.