DISSECTION OF THE TESTIS. 670 it is nearly twenty feet in length. The diameter of the canal at its commencement is about of an inch ; at the globus minor about of an inch, after which it again increases in diameter. It is lined with columnar ciliated epithelium. _ The vols deferens begins at the lower part of the Vas Deferens. j ° 1 globus minor; at first it is somewhat convoluted, but as it ascends behind the epididymis, it becomes subsequently straight, and joins the other component parts of the cord. After passing through the inguinal canal, it enters the abdomen through the internal ring. It then winds round the outer side of the epigastric artery, and, after crossing over the external iliac artery and vein, it enters the pelvis, curves round the side and lower part of the bladder, and empties itself into the prostatic part of the urethra, after running a course of about two feet. In connection with the anterior aspect of the cord, just above the epididymis, are two or three small masses of convoluted tubes, which are known as the organ of Giraides, or the parepididy- mis. They are lined with squamous epithelium, and are probably the remains of part of the Woolffian body. The hydatids of Morgagni are one or two small pedunculated bodies, situated between the globus major and the body of the testis. They are formed by pouchings of the tunica vaginalis, and are filled with blood-vessels bound together by connective tissue.* The vas aberrans is a small convoluted tubule, with a csecal extremity, found between the epididymis and the cord, and com- municating usually with the canal of the epididymis. It is about an inch in length, but when frayed out varies from two to twelve inches in length. It, like the organ of Griraldes, is connected with a fetal structure, the Woolffian body. Spermatic The spermatic cord is composed of the spermatic CoRD' vessels, nerves, and lymphatics*"; of the vas deferens, with the deferential artery (a branch of the superior vesical); of the cremaster muscle, and the cremasteric artery, a * The largest, which lies upon the top of the testis*, is stated to be the vestige of Kuller's duct.