329 DISSECTION OF THE BACK OF THE FOREARM. side of the metacarpal bone of the middle finger. A bursa is generally found between the tendon and the bone. Its nerve comes from the, posterior interosseous. Extensor Digi- This muscle arises from the common tendon torum Communis. attached to the external condyle, from the septa between it and the contiguous muscles, and from its strong fascial covering. About the middle of the forearm,,the muscle divides into three or four fleshy slips, terminating in as many flat tendons, which pass beneath the posterior annular ligament, through a groove on the back of the radius lined by synovial membrane. On the back of the hand the tendons become broader and flatter, and diverge from each other towards the metacarpal joints of the fingers, where they become thicker and narrower, and give off, on each side, a fibrous expansion, which covers the sides of the joint. Over the first phalanx of the finger, each tendon again spreads out, receives the expanded tendons of the lumbricales and interossei muscles, and divides at the second phalanx into three portions, of which the middle is inserted into the upper end of the second phalanx ; the two lateral, reuniting over the lower end of the second phalanx, are inserted into the upper end of the third.* Its nerve comes from the posterior interosseous. The oblique aponeurotic slips w7hich connect the tendons on the back of the hand are subject to great variety. The tendon of the index finger is commonly free ; it is situated on the radial side of the proper indicator tendon, and becomes united with it at the metacarpal joint. The tendon of the middle finger usually receives a slip from that of the ring. The tendon of the ring finger generally sends a slip to the tendons on either side of it, and, in some cases, entirely furnishes the tendon of the little finger. Thus the ring finger does not admit of independent extension. * The extensor tendons are inserted into the periosteum ; hut the flexor tendons are inserted into the substance of the bone. This accounts for the facility with which the former will tear off the bones in cases of necrosis, while the latter will adhere so tightly as to require cutting before the phalanx can be removed. It probably also explains the great liability to necrosis which is so frequently observed in cases of thecal abscess.