58 SCALENE MUSCLES. 2. Muscular branches to supply the trapezius, levator anguli scapulae, scalenus medius, and sterno-mastoid. D The clavicle should now be sawn through the middle, and the sternal half raised with the sterno-mastoid attached, so that the bone can be replaced, to study- its relation to the subjacent parts. The scalene muscles and the subclavian artery throughout its whole course must next be care- fully dissected. While this is being done, the student must be careful not to injure the branches of the subclavian artery, the lymphatic duct on the right, and the thoracic duct on the left side, the nerve to the subclavius m , the phrenic nerve, the cervical aud the brachial plexuses of nerves, and their small branches. Scalene The scalene muscles, so called from their resem- Muscles. blance to a scalene triangle, extend from the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae to the first and second ribs. They may be considered as intercostal muscles, since the trans- verse processes of the cervical vertebrae are but rudimentary ribs. Anatomists describe them as three separate muscles—an anterior, a middle, and a posterior; the anterior and middle are attached to the first rib, the posterior to the second. In plan and purpose these three muscles are one. Scalenus The scalenus anticus arises from the anterior Anticus. tubercles of the transverse processes of the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth cervical vertebrae, and is inserted by a flat tendon into the tubercle on the inner border of the first rib in front of the groove for the subclavian artery. Scalenus The scalenus medius arises from the posterior Medius. tubercles of the transverse processes of all the cervical vertebrae except the first, and is inserted into the first rib behind the scalenus anticus, extending, from the tubercle, forwards for an inch and a half. Scalenus The scalenus posticus arises from the posterior Posticus. tubercles of the transverse processes of the two or three lowest cervical vertebrae, and is inserted into the second rib between its tubercle and angle, anterior to the levator costae.