654 DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. by a branch of the facial nerve.-* Its action is to relax the mem- brana tympani. The stapedius arises from the hollow of the pyramid, and its tendon runs forwards to be inserted into the neck of the stapes, f Its nerve is derived from the facial. By its action it increases the tension upon the fluid in the vestibule. The tympanum is lined with mucous membrane, which is continuous with that of the pharynx. It covers the ossicles, and is prolonged into the mastoid cells. The membrane is pale and thin, and lined with columnar ciliated epithelium, except on the promontory, the membrana tympani, and the ossicles, where there is only a single layer of flattened cells. Chorda Tym- A branch (chorda tympani) of the facial nerve pani. enters the tympanum through a foramen at the base of the pyramid (foramen chordae posterius); it then crosses the tympanum between the handle of the malleus and the long process of the incus, leaves the tympanum through a foramen (foramen chordae anterius), and then traverses a canal (canal of Huguier),vfhich runs close to the Grlaserian fissure. It eventually joins the submaxillary ganglion (p. 51). Elood-Vessels The tympanum is supplied with blood—1, by of the Tym- the tympanic branch of the internal maxillary, panum. which enters through the fissura Grlaseri; 2, by the stylo-mastoid branch of the posterior auricular; 3, by small branches from the ascending pharyngeal, which enter with the Eustachian tube ; 4, by branches from the internal carotid artery ; and 5, by the petrosal branch of the arteria meningea media. The mucous membrane is supplied with branches from the tympanic plexus, which is formed by filaments from the tympanic branch of the glosso-pharyngeal nerve, from the carotid sympathetic plexus, and from the large and small superficial petrosal nerves. E This, in consequence of its complexity, is called the labyrinth. It consists of cavities excavated * This is usually regarded as a muscle, and is described here as such; no mus- cular fibres, however, can be traced in it, so that it is probably only ligamentous., in structure—a fact borne out in the lower animals. f There is a little sheath, lined with synovial membrane, to facilitate the play of the tendon in the pyramid.