195 DISSECTION OF THE LARYNX. vocal cords, the posterior third by the arytenoid cartilages. Above the true vocal cords are situated the superior or false vocal cords. On each side of the larynx, between the true and false vocal cords, is a small recess, the ventricle of the larynx, leading into a pouch called the sacculus laryngis, which ascends for a short distance and terminates in a cul-de-sac by the side of the thyroid cartilage. In the middle line below the base of the epiglottis is seen a round elevation covered with mucous membrane of a bright red colour: this is termed the cushion of the epiglottis. The length of the rima glottidis in the male is eleven lines; its width at rest from three to four lines; in the female its length is eight lines, its width two lines. Superior or These are the prominent crescentic folds which False Vocal form the upper boundaries of the ventricles. Cords. They are called the false vocal cords because they have little or nothing to do with the production of the voice. They are composed of elastic tissue, like the true vocal cords; but they also contain fatty tissue, which the true ones do not. Inferior or These two cords, composed of elastic tissue, and True Vocal covered with very thin and closely adherent mu- Cords. cous membrane, extend horizontally from the angle of the thyroid cartilage to Fig g5 the base of each of the arytenoid. They diverge as they pass back- X^nX. Thyroid cartilage. wards; the space between them is j \\_ True vocai cord. called the rima glottidis. We shall presently see that, by the muscles which act upon the ary- tenoid cartilages, these cords can be approximated or separated ("^J^4t^f^ Elastic ligament from each other; in other words, the rima glottidis can be closed SHAPE 0F THE GL0TTIS i • 1 i j ,TT, ~ . "WHEN AT REST. or dilated. When sufficiently tightened, and brought parallel by means of certain muscles, the cords are made to vibrate by the current of the expired air, and thus is produced the voice. o 2 Arytenoid cartilage.