LIGAMENTS OF THE SPINE. 247 arches of the contiguous vertebrae, from the axis to the sacrum; none existing between the occiput and the atlas, or between the atlas and axis. They are composed of yellow elastic tissue, the fibres being arranged vertically, and their strength increases with the size of the vertebrae. This elasticity answers a double pur- pose : it not only permits the spine to bend forwards, but materi- ally assists in restoring it to its curve of rest. They economise muscular force, like the ligamentum nuchae in animals. Interverte- This substance, placed between the bodies of bral Fibro- the vertebrae, is by far the strongest bond of con- cartilage. nection between them, and fulfils most important purposes in the mechanism of the spine. Its peculiar structure is adapted to break shocks, and to render the spine flexible and resilient. To see the structure of an intervertebral fibro-cartilage, a horizontal section must be made through it. It is firm and resisting near the circumference, but soft and pulpy towards the centre. The circumferential portion is composed of concentric layers of fibro-cartilage, placed vertically. These layers are attached by their edges to the vertebrae; they gradually decrease in number from the circumference towards the centre, and the interstices between them are filled by soft pulpy tissue. The central portion is composed almost entirely of this pulpy tissue; and it bulges when no longer under pressure. Thus the bodies of the vertebrae, in their motions upon each other, revolve upon an elastic cushion tightly girt all round by bands of fibrous tissue. These motions are regulated by the articular processes. Dissect an intervertebral substance layer after layer in front, and you will find that the circumferential fibres extend obliquely between the vertebrae, crossing each other like the branches of the letter X. The thickness of the intervertebral cartilages is not the same in front and behind. It is this difference in their thickness, more than that in the bodies of the vertebrae, which produces the several curves of the spine. In the lumbar and cervical regions they are thicker in front; in the dorsal region, behind. The structure of the intervertebral cartilages explains the well-known