2±4 OPHTHALMIC ARTERY. by filaments from the lenticular ganglion, and pass through the sclerotic coat to supply the iris. c. Infra-trochlear nerve.—This runs below the pulley of the superior oblique, where it communicates with the supra-trochlear branch of the frontal nerve. It then divides into filaments, which supply the skin of the eyelids, the lachrymal sac, the caruncle, and the side of the nose. This nerve, having passed through the optic Optic Nerve. foramen, proceeds forwards and a little outwards to the globe of the eye, which it enters on the nasal side of its axis. It then expands ;to form the retina. The nerve is invested by a fibrous coat derived from the dura mater. At the optic foramen it is surrounded by the tendinous origins of the recti; in the rest of its course, by loose fat and by the ciliary nerves and arteries. It is pierced .in its course through the orbit by the arteria cen- tralis retinae which runs in the middle of the nerve to the eyeball. Ophthalmic This artery arises from the internal carotid. It Artery. enters the orbit through the optic foramen, out- side the optic nerve; occasionally through the sphenoidal fissure. Its course in the orbit is remarkably tortuous. Situated at first on the outer side of the optic nerve, it soon crosses over it, and runs along the inner side of the orbit, to inosculate with the in- ternal angular artery (the terminal branch of the facial). Its branches arise in the following order:— a. Lachrymal artery.—This branch proceeds along the outer wall of the orbit to the lachrymal gland. After supplying the gland, it termi- nates in the upper eyelid. It anastomoses with the deep temporal arte- ries, and with a branch from the arteria meningea media. b. Supra-orbital artery.—This branch runs forwards with the frontal nerve under the roof of the orbit, and emerges on the forehead through the supra-orbital notch. It inosculates chiefly with the superficial tem- poral artery. c. Arteria centralis retinal.—This small branch enters the optic nerve on the outer aspect, and runs in the centre of this nerve to the interior of the eye. d. Ciliary arteries.—These branches proceed tortuously forwards with the optic nerve. They vary from twelve to fifteen in number, and perforate the sclerotic coat at the back of the eye, to supply the choroid