305 PALM OF THE HAND. below the deep tendon so as to embrace it, and then divide a second time into two slips, which interlace with each other and are inserted into the sides of the second phalanx. The deep flexor, having passed through the opening of the superficial one, is inserted into the base of the last phalanx.* In what way are the tendons supplied with blood ? Raise and separate the tendons, and you will see that slender but very vas- cular folds of synovial membrane (vincula tendinum) run up from the phalanges and convey blood-vessels to the tendons. The tendon of the flexor longus pollicis lies on the radial side of the other tendons beneath the annular ligament. It passes between the two portions of the flexor brevis pollicis and the two sesamoid bones of the thumb, enters its proper sheath, and is inserted into the base of the last phalanx. Its synovial sheath is prolonged from the large bursa of the flexor tendons beneath the annular ligament, and accom- panies the tendon down to the last joint of the thumb; conse- quently the sheath is injured in amputation of the last phalanx. Bursal Sac of A large and loose synovial sac (bursa of the car- the Carpus. pUS) facilitates the play of the tendons beneath the anterior annular ligament. It lines the under surface of the ligament and the groove of the carpus, and is reflected in loote folds over the tendons. It is prolonged up the tendons for an inch and a half, or two inches, and forms a cul-de-sac above the ligament. Below the ligament the- bursa extends into the palm, and sends off prolongations for each of the flexor tendons, which accompany them down to the middle of the hand. You will understand that, when the bursa is inflamed and distended by fluid, there will be a bulg- ing above the annular ligament, and another in the palm, with perceptible fluctuation between them; the unyielding ligament causing a constriction in the centre.f * In the Museum of the College of Surgeons, a preparation is put up which shows a beautiful piece of animal mechanics concerning the flexor tendons ; namely, that in its passage along the phalanges, the deep flexor forms, at the first phalanx, a kind of little patella for the superficial one ; but, at the second phalanx, the superficial flexor lies deeper than the other, and forms a little patella for it. This increases the leverage in each case. t In only one subject have we seen an instance in which this bursa communicated X