TENSOR TARSI. 217 Action of the The action of the oblique muscles of the eye Oblique Muscles will be understood if a mark in the iris be watched of the Eye. while the head is rotated from side to side on its antero-posterior axis. It will be thus seen that the eye does not rotate on its antero-posterior axis, as might-have been expected. This is due to the oblique muscles (the right superior acting with the left inferior, and vice versa) which prevent the rotation of the eye on its antero-posterior axis during the movements of the head. In other words, they keep the vertical meridian of the eye always vertical. Tenso Ta si ^is musc^e is onty a deeper part of the orbi- cularis palpebrarum. To expose it, cut perpen- dicularly through the middle of the upper and lower lids, and evert the inner halves toward the nose. After removing the mucous membrane, the muscle will be seen arising from the ridge of the lachrymal bone. It passes nearly horizontally out- wards' and divides into two portions, which are inserted into the upper and lower tarsal cartilages, close to the orifices of the lachrymal ducts. It is probable that the tensor tarsi draws backwards the open mouths of the ducts, so that they may receive the tears at the inner angle of the eye. It is supplied by a small branch from the facial nerve. Orbital This *s always verv smail? and is sometimes Branch of the absent. It comes from the trunk of the superior Superior Maxil- maxillary in the spheno-maxillary fossa (fig. 43), lary Nerve. enters the orbit through the spheno-maxillary fis- sure, and divides into two branches. Of these, one, the temporal, lies in a groove in the outer wall of the orbit, and after sending a small branch to the lachrymal nerve in the orbit, passes through a foramen in the malar bone to the temporal fossa. It then pierces the temporal aponeurosis an inch above the zygoma, and supplies the skin of the temple, joining frequently with the auriculo- temporal branch of the inferior maxillary. The other branch, the malar, passes along the outer part of the floor of the orbit, em- bedded in fat, and makes its exit through a foramen in the malar bone, to supply the skin of the cheek (p. 94).