653 DISSECTION OF THE ORGAN OF HEARING. runs nearly parallel with the handle of the malleus, and articulates with the stapes through the intervention of a small bone, the os orbiculare, which, in adult life, forms part of the long process, but in foetal life is a separate bone; its short process is directed back- wards, and its point is fixed in a small hollow at the commence- ment of the mastoid cells. The stapes, or stirrup bone, lies horizontally. Its head articulates with the long process of the incus. Two diverging crura pass from the head to the base, which is attached to the membrane covering the fenestra ovalis. The stapedius muscle is inserted into the posterior part of its neck. The tympanic bones are maintained in their positions by various ligaments. The anterior ligament of the malleus passes from the head of this bone to the anterior wall of the tympanum ; the suspensory ligament descends from the roof of the tympanum outwards to the head of the malleus, and the posterior ligament of the incus passes from the short process to the posterior wall near the mastoid cells. The ossicles are connected by an imperfect capsular ligament, which passes from the long process of the incus to the head of the stapes; and by another which passes from the head of the malleus to the incus. The surfaces of the bones forming these two little joints are covered with cartilage. The joints have also synovial membranes. The muscles, by moving the tympanic bones, tighten or relax Muscles of the membrana tympani. The tensor tympani the Tympanum. runs in a canal above and parallel to the Eustachian tube, from the cartilaginous part of which it arises, as well as from the apex of the petrous portion of the temporal bone. It passes backwards, and terminates in a round tendon, which enters the front wall of the tympanum through a special bony canal, and is inserted into the root of the handle of the malleus. Its nerve comes from the otic ganglion. Its action is to draw inwards the head of the malleus, and thus render the membrane tense. The laxator tympani arises from the spinous process of the sphenoid, and the Eustachian tube, and is inserted into the neck of the malleus close to the root of the processus gracilis. It* is supplied