322 MUSCLES OF THE SCAPULA. This muscle is closely connected with the latis- Teres Major. . , . , n ., . P . , simus dorsi, and extends irom the interior angle of the scapula to the humerus, contributing to form the posterior boundary of the axilla. It arises from the flat surface at the inferior angle of the back of the scapula, from its inferior border, and the intermuscular septa, and terminates upon a flat tendon, nearly two inches in breadth, which is inserted into the inner edge of the bicipital groove of the humerus, behind and a little lower than the tendon of the latissimus dorsi. Its action is to draw the humerus backwards. It is supplied by the middle sub- scapular nerve. A bursa is found in front of, and another behind the tendon of the teres major; the former separates it from the latissimus dorsi, the latter from the bone. Supra- This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds spinatus. of the supra-spinous fossa, and from its aponeurotic covering. It passes under the acromion, over the shoulder-joint, and is inserted by a strong tendon into the superior depression of the greater tuberosity of the humerus. To see its insertion, the acromion should be sawn off near' the neck of the scapula. Its action is to assist the deltoid in raising the arm. Its nerve is derived from the supra-scapular. This muscle occupies the subscapular fossa. It arises from the posterior three-fourths of the fossa, and from three or four tendinous septa attached to the oblique bony ridges on its surface. The fibres converge towards the neck of the scapula, where they terminate upon three or four tendons, which are concealed amongst the muscular fibres, and are inserted into the lesser tuberosity of the humerus. Its broad in- sertion is closely connected with the capsule of the shoulder-joint, which it completely protects upon its inner side. Its action is to rotate the humerus inwards. The nerves which supply it come from the long and middle subscapular nerves. The coracoid process, with the coraco-brachialis and short head of the biceps, forms an arch, under which the tendon of the sub- scapularis plays. There are several bursw about the tendon.