166 DISSECTION OP THE HEART. lar and surround the auricular appendages and the entrance of the great veins, upon which a few may be traced for a short dis- tance ; others, looped, run over the auricles, and are attached in front and behind to the auriculo-ventricular rings. Arrangement Speaking generally, it may be said that the of the Muscular right and left ventricles of the heart are two Fibres of the conical muscular sacs, enclosed in a third, which Ventricles. not 0nly envelopes them, but is reflected into the interior of both, at their apices, so as to line their cavities. All the muscular fibres are attached by one end to the fibrous rings of the orifices, and, by the other end, after a more or less spiral course, they reach the rings again, either directly or through the medium of the chordae tendinese and valves. Let us first take the arrangement of the superficial fibres, those, namely, of the sac which envelopes both ventricles. The fibres covering the anterior surface of the heart start from the right aviriculo-ventricular and pulmonary rings, and run more or less spirally from right to left towards the apex of the heart: those covering the posterior part of the heart start from the auriculo- ventricular rings, and run more or less spirally from left to right to reach the apex. At the apex what becomes of the fibres ? They form a whorl, are reflected upon themselves, and enter the interior of the ventricles so as to form their innermost muscular lining—in other words, the fleshy columns of their cavities. Ventricular Each sac consists of muscular fibres, arranged Sacs. more or less transversely, which arise from some part of the ring, run round the ventricle, and are fixed to another part of the ring. Thus each sac forms a hollow conical barrel, open at both ends; the broad end representing the orifice of the ring, the narrow end representing the orifice through which the fibres of the common sac enter the ventricles.* Thickness of The average thickness of the right auricle is the Cavities. about one line; that of the left, one and a half. * For further information on this subject, consult Pettigrew, 'Philosoph. Trans- actions,' 1864; Dr. Sibson, 'Medical Anatomy,' 1869; Winckler, 'Miiller's Archiv,' 1865; Quain's 'Anatomy,' vol. ii. p. 257, 1876.