NERVES OF THE BACK. 243 oblique muscle, passes through the cornplexus, and runs with the occipital artery to the back of the scalp. The posterior divisions of the six lower cervical nerves divide into external and internal branches. The external are small, and terminate in the splenitis, and the continuation of the erector spinaa—viz., the trachelo-mastoid, the transversalis colli, and the cervicalis ascendens. The internal, by far the larger, proceed towards the spines of the vertebrae; those of the third, fourth, and fifth lie between the cornplexus and the semispinalis,* and after supplying the muscles terminate in the skin; those of the sixth, seventh, and eighth lie between the semispinalis and the multifidus spinaa, to which they are distributed. Dorsal The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in Region, this region come out between the transverse pro- cesses and the tendons attached to them. They soon divide into external and internal branches. The external pass obliquely over the levatores costarum, between the sacro-lumbalis and the longis- simus dorsi; and successively increase in size from above down- wards. The upper six terminate in the erector spinae and the levatores costarum; the rest, after supplying these muscles, pass through the latissimus dorsi, and become the cutaneous nerves of the back. The internal successively decrease in size from above down- wards. They run towards the spine between the semispinalis dorsi and the multifidus spinas. The upper six, after giving branches to the muscles, perforate the trapezius and become cutaneous nerves. The lower ones terminate in the muscles of the vertebral groove. Lumbar The general arrangement of the nerves in this Region- region resembles that of the dorsal. Their exter- nal branches, after supplying the erector spinae, become cutaneous and terminate in the skin over the buttock. The internal brandies supply the multifidus spinas. The posterior divisions of the spinal nerves in sacral Region. . \ ni TTT.., ,. „ , this region are small. Y\ ith the exception of the * The posterior branches of the second, third, and fourth nerves are generally con- nected, beneath the cornplexus, by branches in the form of loops. This constitutes the posterior cervical plexus of some anatomists. K 2