DISSECTION OF THE SPINAL CORD. the lumbar and sacral nerves must descend from it almost per- pendicularly through the lower part of the spinal canal. To Cauda this bundle of nerves the old anatomists have Equina. given the name of cauda equina, from its resem- blance to a horse's tail. To sum up briefly, it appears that the spinal cord consists of two symmetrical halves, separated in front and behind by a deep median fissure; that the two halves are connected at the bottom of the anterior fissure by an anterior or white commissure, at the bottom of the posterior fissure by the posterior or grey commissure ; that each half of the cord is divided into three tracts or columns of longitudinal white nerve-fibres—an anterior, a lateral, and a posterior—the boundaries between them being the respective lines of origin of the roots of the spinal nerves ; that the interior of the cord contains grey matter disposed in the form of two crescents, placed with their convexities towards each other, and connected by a transverse bar of grey matter, which constitutes the posterior commissure. Blood-Vessels The cord is supplied with blood by—1. The of the Cord. anterior spinal artery, which commences at the medulla oblongata by' a branch from the vertebral of each side, and then runs down the middle of the front of the cord. Other branches are derived from the vertebral, ascending cervical, inter- costal, and lumbar arteries, which pass through the intervertebral foramina, and assist in keeping up the size of this anterior artery. 2. The posterior spinal arteries, which proceed also from the vertebral, intercostal, and lumbar arteries, and ramify somewhat irregularly on the back of the cord. On the posterior part of the bodies of the vertebrae, the spinal arteries of opposite sides communicate by numerous transverse branches along the entire length of the spine, thus resembling the arrangement of its venous plexuses. Functions of The spinal cord performs, at least, three func- the Spinal Cord, tions:—1. It is the general conductor of impres- sions to, and from, the brain. 2. It transfers impressions. 3 It is a centre of reflex action. Sensory impressions are conducted by s s