SIDE VIEW OF THE PELVIC VISCERA. 434 meso-rectum. In this fold, the terminal branch of the inferior mesenteric artery with its vein runs up to supply the bowel. Below the meso-rectum, the intestine is connected posteriorly to the sacrum and coccyx by loose connective tissue, and is covered by peritoneum in front, which forms the recto-vesical pouch. The lower three inches and a-half are entirely destitute of peritoneum. The rectum is supported by the levatores ani, the larger portions of which are inserted into its side. Digital The relations of the front part of the rectum— Examination of that, namely, included between the recto-vesical TjaE Rectum. pouch and the anus—are most important. If the forefinger be introduced into the anus, and a catheter into the urethra, the first thing felt through the front wall of the bowel is the membranous part of the urethra (fig. 94). It lies just within the sphincter, and is about ten lines in front of the gut. About one and a half or two inches from the anus the finger comes upon the prostate gland; this is in close contact with the gut, and is readily felt on account of its hardness ; by moving the finger from side to side we recognise its lateral lobes. Still higher up, the finger goes beyond the prostate, and reaches the trigone of the bladder : the facility with which this can be examined depends, not only upon the length of the finger and the amount of fat in the perineum, but upon the degree of distension of the bladder; the more distended the bladder, the better can the prostate be felt. These several relations are practically important. They explain why, with the finger in the rectum, we can ascertain whether the catheter is taking the right direction—whether the prostate be enlarged or not. We might even raise a stone from the bottom of the bladder so as to bring it in contact with the forceps. The rectum is supplied with blood by the superior, middle, and inferior hemorrhoidal arteries. The superior comes J'irom the inferior mesenteric (p. 392) ; the middle and inferior from the pudic artery. The superior and middle hemorrhoidal veins join the inferior mesenteric, and consequently the portal system; the inferior hemorrhoidal veins join the internal pudic. They are