557 DISSECTION OF THE SOLE OF THE FOOT. _ Make a perpendicular incision down the middle Dissection. l l of the sole, and reflect the skin. Notice the peculiar structure of the subcutaneous tissue. It is composed of globular masses of fat, separated by strong fibrous septa, and forms elastic pads, especially marked at the heel, and at the ball of the great and the little toes; these being the points which form the tripod supporting the arch of the foot. In removing the subcutaneous tissue from the ball of the great and the little toes, we often meet with bursa?, simple or multilocular. They are generally placed between the skin and the sesamoid bones, and have remarkably thick walls. Frequently an artery and nerve can be traced running directly through one of these sacs, which explains the acute pain produced by their inflammation. Cutaneous The skin of the heel is supplied by the calcaneo- Nerves. plantar branch of the posterior tibial nerve ; the remainder of the sole by small branches of the plantar nerves which come through the fascia, as in the palm of the hand. Piantar This is a remarkably dense white and glistening Fascia. fascia. It extends from the under and back part of the os calcis to the distal extremities of the metatarsal bones. It is divided into a strong central and two lateral less dense por- tions ; from which prolongations pass deeply inwards, separating the lateral from the central muscles. The middle portion, cover- ing the flexor brevis digitorum, is narrow behind, and, as it passes forwards towards the toes, is spread out, and strengthened by trans- verse fibrous bands. The inner portion is comparatively thin, and surrounds the abductor pollicis, becoming continuous posteriorly with the internal annular ligament. The outer portion is thicker than the inner, especially as it passes forwards to be attached to the proximal end of the fifth metatarsal bone. It covers the abductor minimi digiti. Near the distal ends of the metatarsal bones, the central part