405 EXTERNAL ILIAC A.RTERT. of both common iliac arteries are similar. But each has its special relations as follows :— The special relations of the right common iliac are, that it lies, at its commencement, close to the left of the inferior vena cava ; and that it subsequently crosses over both the common iliac veins. The special relations of the left common iliac are, that it has, in front of it, the end of the sigmoid flexure of the colon and the inferior mesenteric vessels; and, to its right side, the common iliac vein, which gradually gets more behind it towards the sacroiliac symphysis. The relations of these arteries with regard to their corre- sponding veins are, practically, important in reference to the ope- ration of tying them. This operation is, obviously, easier on the left side than the right.* If the common iliac artery were ligatured, the collateral cir- culation would be maintained through the following vessels: by the internal mammary anastomosing with the deep epigastric a. ; by the lumbar arteries with the circumflex iliac and the ilio- lumbar a. ; by the lumbar with the gluteal; by the middle sacral with the lateral sacral a.; by the spermatic with the deferential, cremasteric, external pudic and superficial perineal arteries; by the superior hemorrhoidal with the middle and inferior hsemor- rhoidal a.; by the lower intercostals with the epigastric a. (super- ficial and deep) ; and by the middle and the inferior hemorrhoidal, the pudic and its branches, and the vesical arteries communica- ting in the middle line with the corresponding branches of the opposite side. External The external iliac artery passes along the brim Iliac Artery. of the pelvis, first ©n the inner side, and then in * The length of the common iliac artery is apt to vary in different persons. We have seen it from three-fourths of an inch to three and a half inches long. These varieties may arise either from a high division of the aorta, or a low division of the common iliac, or both. It is impossible to ascertain, beforehand, its length in any given instance, as there is no necessary relation between its length and the height of the adult individual. It is often very short in men of tall stature, and vice versa. The left is usually described as rather longer than the right; but, from the examina- tion of 100 bodies, our conclusion is that their average length is the same.