DISSECTION OF THE ORBIT, 208 Contents of There are six muscles to move the eye ; four of the Orbit. which, running in a straight direction, are called the recti, and are arranged one above, one below, and one on each side of the globe. The remaining two are called, from their direction, obliqui, one superior, the other inferior. There is also a muscle to raise the upper eyelid, termed levator palpebrw. The nerves are: the optic, which passes through the optic foramen; the third, the fourth, the first division of *the fifth, and the sixth, all of which pass through the sphenoidal fissure. The third supplies all the muscles with motor power, except the superior oblique, which is supplied by the fourth, and the external rectus, which is supplied by the sixth. The first or ophthalmic division of the fifth divides into a frontal, lachrymal, and nasal branch. The orbit contains, also, a quantity of fat, which forms a soft bed for the eye and prevents it from being retracted too far by its muscles. Upon the quantity of this fat depends, in some measure, the prominence of the eyes. Its absorption in disease or old age occasions the sinking of the eyeballs. The eye is separated from the fat by a fold of the orbital fascia, which, like a tunica vaginalis, enables the globe to move with rapidity and precision. Lastly, the orbit contains the lachrymal gland. After the removal of the periosteum and the fascia of the orbit, the following objects should be carefully traced. In the middle are seen the frontal nerve and artery, lying upon the levator palpebral; on the inner side is the fourth nerve lying on and supplying the superior oblique; on the outer side, the lachrymal nerve and artery pass forwards to the lachrymal gland, which lies under cover of the external angular process. The ophthalmic or first division, of the fifth nerve, after giving off from its inner side, while within the cavernous sinus, the nasal nerve, divides into the lachrymal and frontal nerves, of which the Frontal latter is the larger. The frontal nerve runs for- Nerve. wards upon the upper surface of the levator palpebrae, on which, about midway in the orbit, it divides into two branches, the supra-trochlear and the supra-orbital. a. The supra-trochlear runs obliquely inwards above the pulley of