616 DISSECTION OF THE BRAIN". In addition to the amygdalae and flocculi, already mentioned, other lobes have been described on the under surface of the cere- bellum. Thus, there is the digastric lobe, situated external to the amygdala; and behind this are successively the slender and the posterior inferior lobes. Peduncles of The cerebellum is connected with the cerebro- the Cerebellum, spinal axis by three peduncles or crura—a superior, middle, and inferior. With the medulla oblongata it is connected by means of the restiform tracts ; these are called the processus a cerebello ad medullam, or its inferior peduncles; with the cerebrum it is connected by means of the processus e cerebello ad cerebrum ; these are called its superior peduncles. The lateral portions of the pons constitute its middle peduncles. Internal To examine the internal structure of the cere- Structure, bellum, a longitudinal section must be made through the thickest part of one of its hemispheres. There is then seen in the centre a large nucleus of white substance, from which branches radiate into the grey substance in all directions. Each of these branches corresponds to one of the folia of the cerebellum, and from it other smaller branches proceed and again subdivide. This racemose arrangement of the white matter in the substance of the grey has been likened to the branches of a tree deprived of its leaves, and is generally known as the arbor VltCB. Corpus Den- In the centre of the white substance of each TATUM- hemisphere is a nucleus of grey matter, the corpus dentatum, consisting of a zigzag line of yellowish-grey colour, in- complete at its upper and inner part, and enclosing within it some white substance. From its centre white fibres may be traced to the superior cerebellar peduncles and the valve of Vieussens. It is displayed either by a vertical or by a horizontal section. F Eespecting the function of the cerebellum, the deductions derived from comparative anatomy and physiological experiments render it probable that it is the co-ordinator of muscular movements—e.g., in walking, flying, and swimming.