043 DISSECTION OF THE EYE. 6. The outer nv■clear layer consists of a considerable thickness of nucleated cells, with an outward and an inward filament, which may be recognised as connected respectively with the rods and cones of the next layer. The rod-granules are the most numerous, and each has an enlargement which presents a well-marked trans- verse striation; from this enlargement one varicose filament passes inwards and becomes connected with the outer molecular layer; the other becomes continuous with a rod. The cone- granules are fewer and thicker, and, like the rod-granules, one end terminates in the outer molecular layer, the other passes into the base of a cone. 7. The rods and cones, bacillary layer* or Jacob's membrane, is composed of minute cylindrical elements arranged at right angles to the surface of the retina. The rods, the more nume- rous, are tapering processes running through the whole thickness of this layer, and externally are embedded to a greater or less depth in the pigmental layer, so that when viewed from without they have the appearance of mosaic pavement. Among the rods are intermingled numerous shorter flask-shaped bodies, called cones ; their outer extremities taper off towards the choroid, their inner broad ends are connected with the fibres of Miiller and the outer nuclear layer. The rods are absent at the yellow spot. 8. The pigmentary layer is usually described as forming part of the choroid coat, but it should be included more properly as one of the layers of the retina. It consists of a single layer of hexagonal nucleated cells filled with pigment-grannies, which are most numerous towards the margins of the cells. The use of the pigment is to absorb the rays of light which pass through the retina, and thus prevent their being reflected. It serves the same purpose as the black paint with which the inside of optical instru- ments is darkened. Albinoes, in whom this layer has little or no pigment, are, consequently, dazzled by daylight and see better in the dusk.* * In many of the nocturnal carnivorous quadrupeds, the inner surface of the choroid at the bottom of the eye presents a brilliant colour and metallic lustre. It is called the tapetum. By reflecting the rays of light a second time through the T T 2