501 PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. d. The crural canal and ring. e. The practical application of the subject. Poupart's The lower border of the aponeurosis of the Ligament or external oblique muscle extends from the anterior Crural Arch. superior spine of the ilium to the spine of the pubes, and forms, over the bony excavation beneath, the crural arch or Poupart's ligament. (It is marked by the dark line in tig. 116.) The direction of the arch is at first somewhat oblique, but towards its inner half, becomes nearly horizontal. In conse- quence of its intimate connection with the muscular fascia of the thigh, the line of the arch describes a gentle curve with the con- vexity downwards. The arch is attached to the spine of the pubes, and also for some distance along the linea ilio-pectinea (fig. 116). This additional attachment, called Gimbernafs ligament,* is of importance, for it is frequently the seat of stricture in femoral hernia. Gimbernat's The best view of (ximbernat's ligament is ob- Ligament. tained from within the abdomen; it being only necessary to remove the peritoneum. It is placed nearly horizon- tally, in the erect posture, and is triangular with its apex at the pubes and its base directed outwards. In front, it is continuous with the crural arch; behind, it is inserted into the linea ilio- pectinea ; externally, it is continuous with the fascia lata through Hey's ligament (fig. 116). Its length is from f of an inch to 1 inch; but it is usually longer in the male than the female. On putting your finger into the femoral ring, you feel the sharp and wiry edge of this ligament: observe, too, that as the body lies on the table, the plane of the ligament is perpendicular, and therefore that it recedes from the surface. Arrangement The crural ai"cn transmits from the abdomen into of the Parts the thigh (proceeding in order from the outer which pass under gye) the following objects, shown in fig. 117): 1. The external cutaneous nerve ; 2. The iliacus and psoas muscles, with the anterior crural nerve between them; * Don Antonio de Gimbernat was a Spanish surgeon, who published, in 1793, ' A new Method of Operating for the Femoral Hernia.' Madrid.