34 INTERNAL JUGULAR VEIN. 3. It is in close relation with the oesophagus and the trachea. 4. It is in close relation with the left recurrent nerve. 5. It is in close relation posteriorly with the thoracic duct. 6. It is covered by the thymus gland in early life. • The common carotid as a rule gives off no branch in its course ; but, occasionally, the middle sterno-mastoid, or even the superior thyroid, arises from it prior to its division. At its bifurcation it usually presents a slight bulbous enlargement. This dilatation is sometimes so marked, that it might be mistaken for an incipient aneurysm. It is necessary to know that the carotid sometimes divides as low as the level of the cricoid cartilage, and that not imfrequently the division takes place as high as the hyoid bone.* Internal The internal j ugular vein is the continuation of Jugctlab, Vein. the lateral sinus, and returns the blood from the brain. Leaving the skull through the foramen jugulare, where it presents a slight enlargement, the vein descends on the outer side of the carotid, but in the sheath with it, and joins the subclavian vein at nearly a right angle to form the brachio-cephalic or in- nominate vein. In its course down the neck it receives the pharyngeal, occipital, lingual, facial, superior, and inferior thyroid veins. Previous to their terminations the internal jugular veins incline somewhat to the right side to meet the corresponding subclavian veins; thus, on the right side,. there is a triangular interval between the artery and vein in which is seen the pneumogastric nerve and vertebral artery; on the left side the vein slightly overlaps the artery, thus rendering ligature of the left carotid more difficult than of the right. The internal jugular veins more- * It is important that we should be aware that the common carotids differ occa- sionally in their origin. Thus the right may arise in common with the left carotid, or the right may arise separately from the arch of the aorta, in which case the right subclavian is usually transposed. The left may be given off from the innominate artery of the right side, or it may arise in common with the left subclavian, and thus form a left innominate. In transposition of the aorta there is a left innominate, which is given off first, the right carotid and the right subclavian arising as separate branches from the arch.