516 EXTENSOR MUSCLES. seen without completely dissecting the thigh. It consists of an outer, middle, and inner portion, called, respectively, the vastus externus, the crureus, and the vastus intern'us. The vastus ex- ternus arises by a strong aponeurosis from the outer side of the base of the great trochanter, and from the outer lip of the linea aspera nearly down to the external condyle. The crureus and the vastus internus arise (conjointly) from the upper three- fourths of the front and inner surfaces of the shaft of the femur, and from the entire length of the inner lip of the linea aspera. The ultimate insertion of the several parts of the triceps is (through the patella) into tne common extensor tendon of the knee. A few of the deeper fibres of the crureus are inserted into the fold of the synovial membrane of the knee-joint which rises above the patella. These are described as a distinct muscle, under the name of the sub-crureus. Their use is to raise the synovial membrane, so that it may not be injured by the play of the patella. Since the triceps is connected to the lower part of the shaft of the femur only by loose connective tissue, there is nothing to prevent the distension of the synovial membrane, in cases of inflammation, to the extent of several inches above the patella. Common Ex- The tendon of the rectus, gradually expanding, tensoe Tendon. becomes connected on its under surface with the tendon of the crureus, and on either side with that of the vasti, and is firmly fixed into the upper part and sides of the patella. From this bone the common extensor tendon, the ligamentum patello3, descends over the front of the knee-joint, and is inserted into the rough part of the tubercle of the tibia. Besides this, the lower fibres of the vasti terminate on a sheet-like tendon, which runs wide of the patella on either side, and is directly inserted into the sides of the head of the tibia and fibula, so that the knee is completely protected all round. The patella is a large sesamoid bone, interposed to facilitate the play of the tendon over the con- dyles of the femur: it not only materially protects the joint, but adds to the power of the extensor muscles, by increasing the angle at which the tendon is inserted into the tibia. To facilitate the play of the extensor tendon there are two