MUSCLES OF THE BACK. 240 Levatores These small muscles arise from the apices of the Costarum. transverse processes of the seventh cervical and the eleven upper dorsal vertebrae, and are inserted into the rib below. The direction of their fibres corresponds with that of the outer layer of the intercostal muscles. They are muscles of in- spiration. ■ These muscles extend between the spines of Interspinales. .. . , , . . contiguous vertebras, lhey are arranged m pairs, and only exist in those parts of the vertebral column which are the most movable. In the cervical region they pass between the spines of the six lower cervical vertebrae. In the dorsal they are found between the spines of the first and second, and between those of the eleventh and twelfth dorsal vertebras. They are also found more or less distinctly between the spines of the lumbar vertebras. Intertrans- These muscles extend between the transverse yersales. processes in the cervical and lumbar regions. In the neck they are arranged in pairs, like the interspinales, and the corresponding cervical nerve separates one from the other. In the lumbar region they are four in number, and are arranged also in pairs. We have next to examine the muscles concerned in the move- ments of the head upon the first and seeond cervical vertebras. (Fig. 47.) Kecttts Capitis This is a largely developed interspinal muscle. Posticus Major. It arises by a small tendon from the well-marked spine of the second cervical vertebra, and, expanding considerably, is inserted below the superior curved ridge of the occipital bone. These recti muscles, as they ascend, one on each side, to their in- sertions, diverge and leave an interval between them in which are found the recti capitis postici minores. Eectus Capitis This is also an interspinal muscle, but smaller Posticus Minor. than fae preceding. Arising from the posterior tubercle of the first vertebra, it expands as it ascends, and is in- serted into the occipital bone between the inferior curved ridge and the foramen magnum. The action of the two preceding