51 SUBMAXILLARY REGION. municating branches to the hypoglossal nerve near the anterior border of the hyo-glossus. It supplies also the mucous membrane of the mouth, gums, and the sublingual gland, and at the apex of the tongue the terminal branches of this nerve and the hypo- glossal are connected. Submaxillary At the lower border of the gustatory nerve Ganglion. before it crosses the submaxillary duct, you will find a small ganglion, about the size of a pin's head. Like the other ganglia in connection with the branches of the fifth pair, it receives filaments of three different kinds—viz. motor, sensor}T, and sympathetic. Its motor root is the chorda tympani, which, apparently a branch of the gustatory, is derived from the facial nerve. Its sensory roots proceed from the gustatory; and its connection with the sympathetic system is established by a branch which comes from the nervi molles round the facial artery. The ganglion supplies five or six branches to the submaxillary gland and its duct. It also supplies the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth.* Lingual The lingual artery is generally the second Artery. branch of the external carotid. Curving slightly upwards from its origin, the artery soon runs forwards beneath the posterior belly of the digastricus, and stylo-hyoideus, and then passes beneath the hyo-glossus m., parallel to the os hyoides. At the anterior edge of the hyo-glossus it ascends to the under surface of the tongue, and is continued forwards to the apex of the tongue under the name of ranine. Under the hyo-glossus, the artery lies upon the middle constrictor of the pharynx, and the genio-hyo-glossus; in the substance of the tongue, it lies between the genio-hyo-glossus and the inferior lingualis. The curves made by the artery are for the purpose of allowing the elongation of the tongue. Its branches are : 1. The hyoid, a small artery which runs along the upper border of the hyoid bone, supplying the muscles and anastomosing with its fellow. * Meckel describes a small branch of the ganglion which sometimes passes for- wards to join a branch of the hypoglossal, on the hyoglossus m., and ends in the genio-hyo-glossus. e 2