PARTS CONCERNED IN FEMORAL HERNIA. 507 is perforated by the crural branch of the genito-crural nerve, and the superficial arteries of the groin; the inner part, by the saphena vein and some lymphatic vessels. The sheath of the femoral vessels is divided into three com- partments separated from each other by partitions: the outer is occupied by the femoral artery: the middle, by the femoral vein ; the inner is the crural canal, into which the femoral hernia descends. Practically, the sheath is important for many reasons :— 1. A femoral hernia descends within it. 2. It constitutes, therefore, one of the coverings, fascia propria, of the hernia. 3. It contains in its substance bands of fibres, deep crural arch, running in the same direction as the crural arch, but quite inde- pendent of it, as shown in fig. 118; these bands lie over the neck of the sac, and are often the seat of the stricture ; it is therefore necessary to divide them before the intestine can be returned. Ceubal Canal The hollow under the crural arch is completely and Femoral occupied by the structures before mentioned, ex- ElNG- cept for a small space, called the crural canal, on the inner side of the vein. This canal is from a quarter to half an inch in length. It commences, above, in the femoral ring; and ends, below, at the saphenous opening. The femoral ring is the upper opening of the crural canal, and is bounded, in front, by the crural arch ; behind, by the bone; on the outer side, by the femoral vein ; on the inner side, by the thin, wiry edge of Ofimbernat's ligament. In the undisturbed condition of the parts there is no gap; it is only a weak place, which, when a hernia escapes through it, feels like a ring: hence the name of femoral ring* The femoral ring is surrounded on all sides by unyielding structures. This accounts for the little benefit afforded by the warm bath in cases of strangulation. Sir W. Lawrence was in * The femoral ring is naturally ocoupied by a little fat and cellular membrane, by lymphatic vessels, and often by a small lymphatic gland, But we have never met "with anything deserving the name of a ' diaphragm ' or membranous septum, such as is described by Cloquet as the ' septum crurale,' and is, surgically, of no importance.