MUSCLES OF THE SCAPULA. 321 the deltoid. The proximity of this nerve to the head of the humerus explains the occasional paralysis of the deltoid, after dis- location or fracture of the humerus. The nerve is liable to be injured, if not actually lacerated, by the pressure of the bone. In the summer of 1840, a man was admitted into the hospital with a severe injury to the shoulder, and died of delirium tremens. On examination the humerus was found broken high up, the capsule of the joint opened, and the circumflex nerve torn completely across.* A strong aponeurosis covers the muscles of the dorsum of the scapula, and is firmly attached to the spine and borders of the bone. At the posterior edge of the deltoid, it divides into two layers, one of which passes over, the other under, the muscle. Remove the aponeurosis, so far as it can be done without injury to the muscular fibres which arise from its under surface. Infra- This muscle arises from the posterior two-thirds spinatus. of the infra-spinous fossa, and from the aponeu- rosis which covers it. The fibres converge to a tendon, which is at first contained in the substance of the muscle, and then proceeds over the capsule of the shoulder-joint to be inserted into the middle depression on the greater tuberosity of the humerus. Its nerve comes from the supra-scapular. This long narrow muscle is situated below the Teres JMinor infra-spinatus, along the inferior border of the scapula. It arises from the dorsum of the scapula, close to the inferior border, and from the intermuscular septa between it and the infra-spinatus above and the teres major below. The fibres ascend parallel with those of the infra-spinatus, and termi- nate in a tendon, which passes over the capsule of the shoulder- joint, and is inserted into the lowest depression on the great tuberosity of the humerus, and by muscular fibres into the bone below it. It is supplied by a branch of the circumflex nerve, which has (usually) a small ganglion-like enlargement upon it. The action of the infra-spinatus and teres minor is to rotate the humerus outwards. * See preparation in Museum of St. Bartholomew's Hospital, series 3, No. 42. Y