SUBMAXILLARY REGION. ho of the hyo-glossus, it communicates by one or more loops with the gustatory nerve. (Fig. 10.) The hypoglossal at its origin is purely a motor nerve. But after leaving the skull, it receives communications from the first two cervical nerves. These communications are important physio- logically for two reasons: 1. They account for the hypoglossal nerve containing sensory fibres. 2. They contribute the greater part of the filaments of the descendens noni. It is also connected by small branches with the pneumogastric nerve and the superior cervical ganglion of the sympathetic at the base of the skull. Sublingual The sublingual gland lies immediately beneath Gland. the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth. Its shape is oblong, with the long axis (about an inch and a half) directed from before backwards. It rests upon the upper surface of the mylo-hyoid muscle, and towards the mesial line it is in contaet with the hyo-glossus and the genio-hyo-glossus. The ducts of the sublingual gland (ducts of Eivinus*) vary in number from eight to twenty. They terminate by minute open- ings behind the orifice of the submaxillary duct, along the ridge felt upon the floor of the mouth. The ducts of some of the lobes terminate in the submaxillary duct. The duct of the submaxillary gland may now be traced across the hyo-glossus, and under the gustatory nerve to the floor of the mouth. Lingual or This nerve is a branch of the inferior maxillary Gustatory or third division of the fifth pair of cranial nerves. Nerve. Emerging beneath the external pterygoid m., it descends between the ramus of the jaw and the internal ptery- goid muscle, and comes forwards over the superior constrictor of the pharynx and along the upper part of the hyo-glossus, crossing at an acute angle over the duct of the submaxillary gland. (Fig. 10.) Having reached the under part of the tongue, the nerve divides into filaments which supply the papillae on its anterior three-fourths. Beneath the external pterygoid it is joined at an acute angle by the chorda tympani, and in its course it gives off some com- * Aug. Quirin. Eivinus, ' de Dyspepsia.' Lips. 1678.