AXILLARY ARTERY. 203 Axillary Ltm- The axillary glands form a continuous chain, phatic Glands: " beneath the clavicle, with the cervical glands. They are from ten to twelve in number, of a reddish-brown colour, and variable size. Most of them lie near some large blood-vessel; others are embedded in the loose tissue of the axilla; sometimes one or two small ones are observed along the lower border of the pectoralis major. They are supplied with blood by a branch— thoracica alaris—of the axillary artery, and by branches from the thoracic and subscapular arteries. These glands receive the lymphatics from the arm, from the front and side of the chest, and from the outer half of the mam- mary gland. From these glands the efferent lymphatics pass along with the subclavian artery and terminate, on the right side, in the right lymphatic duct, and on the left side, in the thoracic duct. Dissection. Now reflect the pectoralis major from its origin, to expose the pectoralis minor, and the ramifications of the short and long thoracic arteries. Preserve the arteries, as far as possible, in connection with the main trunks. Pectoralis This muscle arises from the third, fourth, and Minor. fifth ribs, near the costal cartilages, and from the thick fascia over the intercostal spaces. The fibres run obliquely upwards and outwards, and converge to a strong tendon, which is inserted into the anterior surface of the coracoid process. The tendon is connected to that of the coraco-brachialis and biceps • by a strong fascia, which forms a protection for the subjacent I axillary vessels and nerves. The action of this muscle is to draw \ the scapula downwards and forwards. Its nerve is derived from the internal anterior thoracic. Dissection. Having examined the muscles which form the anterior boundary of the axilla, we pass now to the course and relations of the axillary artery and its branches. To have a clear view, reflect the subclavius from its insertion, and the pectoralis minor from its origin. Axillary Ar- This artery, the continuation of the subclavian, teryTTts course takes the name of axillary at the outer border of and relations.^ the first rib. It then passes downwards and out-